Business Technical Support Analyst - Security Analyst Business Technical Support <span class="hl">Analyst</span> - <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Business Technical Support Analyst - Security Analyst - University of California San Francisco Antioch, CA My objective is to obtain a position in a professional office environment where my skills are valued and can benefit the organization. Work Experience Business Technical Support Analyst - Security Analyst University of California San Francisco - San Francisco, CA April 2017 to Present • Administer identify and security access globally for human and functional accounts across multiple systems and applications. This includes on-boarding/off-boarding, incident/problem management associated with access entitlements and terminations as well as Emergency & Privileged Access management.  • Demonstrates moderate problem solving, decision-making, and functional knowledge  • Demonstrates awareness of key security trends. Stays abreast of the systems/applications change management process and communicates to management any changes that impact the security of the application  • Providing 24x7 on call support on a rotational basis  • Analyze user access needs, develop access roles and add/change/delete user access accordingly, through provisioning tool(s) or directly in system / application.  • Provisions user access within Epic environments.  • Trained junior members of IT team regarding work instructions, policies, and service level agreements.  • Proactively identifies and escalates incidents as well as operational performance concerns.  • Consistently met deadlines and requirements for all production work orders.  • Increased customer satisfaction for on-boarding process by reducing time between request and completion  • Assists Management in identifying knowledge gaps and providing training to Analysts and Technicians in the IT Security organization as directed. IT Technical Support Analyst University of California San Francisco - San Francisco, CA March 2016 to April 2017 • Supports end users of clinical and non-clinical applications with troubleshooting and resolution of moderately complex technical problems.  • Researched issues on various computer systems and databases to resolve complaints, answer inquiries, and outline solutions.  • Independently analyzes, investigates and resolves elevated issues.  • Escalated issues to the proper help desk associate when necessary and followed up on any escalated issues, all within a timely manner.  • Documents on the tracking database (ServiceNow) and determined trends that assist in improving processes and procedures.  • Continually updated personal knowledge of computing hardware operating systems and software  • Maintains technical and procedural documentation to be used as reference material for UCSF end users.  • Answer incoming calls and analyze the queries and problems of the callers.  • Maintained confidentiality and discretion when working with passworded or sensitive materials  • Complies with the Health System's Polices/Procedures protecting patient information and the confidentiality of the information in accordance with the Federal and State regulations  • Worked the Help Desk providing PC and Mobile support, diagnosing, troubleshooting and resolving client issues with hardware maintenance, installations and upgrades. Bank Teller Bank of America - Brentwood, CA March 2014 to March 2016 • Process standard teller transactions for customers including servicing client accounts, accepting loan payments, managing safe deposit box payments, cashing checks, balancing cash drawers, handling night deposits, correcting discrepancies.  • Provided customer assistance with balance detail and other inquires.  • Referred customers to appropriate financial services and products as required.  • Handled all customer complaints and issues with high professional courtesy.  • Tally the full cash amount at the end of each day.  • Count the cash in ATMs and TAUs/ATS's and replenish them.  • Notified manager of counterfeit currency in coordination with bank security personnel.  • Guarantee security and safety of all bank and client assets via effective adherence of regular corporate and legal processes.  • Bring in new customers and open new accounts by advertising new services and boosting business referrals such as mortgages, insurances, loans, lending, etc.  • Oversaw processing of night deposit bags. Assistant Store Manager Gymboree Corp - Concord, CA June 2013 to March 2014 • Trains store staff by reviewing and revising orientation to products and sales training materials; delivering training sessions; reviewing staff job results and learning needs with retail store manager; developing and implementing new product training.  • Attracts customers by originating display ideas; following display suggestions or schedules; constructing or assembling prefabricated display properties; producing merchandise displays in windows and showcases, and on sales floor.  • Promotes sales by demonstrating merchandise and products to customers.  • Helps customers by providing information; answering questions; obtaining merchandise requested; completing payment transactions; preparing merchandise for delivery.  • Prepares sales and customer relations reports by analyzing and categorizing sales information; identifying and investigating customer complaints and service suggestions.  • Maintains a safe and clean store environment by developing and publishing evacuation routes; determining and documenting locations of potentially dangerous materials and chemicals.  • Maintains inventory by checking merchandise to determine inventory levels; anticipating customer demand.  • Contributes to team effort by accomplishing related results as needed. Sales Lead Gymboree Corp - Concord, CA April 2011 to June 2013 Westfield Downtown Plaza - Sacramento, CA September 2010 to December 2010 • Helps organize, manage, and motivate company's sales force.  • Trains other salespersons', developing leads, and assigns daily job territories.  • Ensures that staff understands the sales mission and has a firm grasp of company's products and services.  • Possess strong leadership skills, keeping employees working as a team and making sure morale stays high.  • Generates sales and maintains a high level of customer service.  • Participates in merchandising and promotional activities.  • Ensures accuracy in all transactions, inventory, and procedures.  • Participate in all manner of store maintenance.  • Keeps a high level of product and service knowledge.  • Works in partnership with store managers and other employees to maximize store sales and in-store presence.  • Maintains a professional appearance, demeanor, and attitude at all times.  • Performs other duties required. Sales Associate Gymboree Corp - Sacramento, CA September 2008 to September 2010 • Greets and acknowledges customers, maintains solid product knowledge.  • Maintains awareness of all promotions and advertisements.  • Assists in floor moves, merchandising, display maintenance, and housekeeping.  • Assist in processing, replenishing and monitoring merchandise and floor stock.  • Communicate customer requests to management.  • Processes price changes within the department.  • Participates in year-end inventory and cycle counts.  • Rings up sales at register and/or bags merchandise. Education Associate of Science in Health Information Technology in Health Information Technology Santa Barbara Community College - Santa Barbara, CA Certification Contra Costa Medical Career College - Antioch, CA None Los Medanos College - Pittsburg, CA High school or equivalent Carondelet High School - Concord, CA Skills Active directory, Epic, Ui, Apex, Coding