Senior Security Analyst / Project Manager Senior <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> / Project Manager Senior Security Analyst / Project Manager Big Island, VA Work Experience Senior Security Analyst / Project Manager A-Tech Systems - Rockville, MD March 2016 to April 2019 ? Assisted corporate senior management on business development efforts and contract proposals. Served as a SME and senior architect on all IT and physical security initiatives.  ? Served as Project Manager (PM) for A-Tech staff assigned to the CMS Healthcare Quality Information Systems (HCQIS) contract. Supervise A-Tech staff, reviewed weekly staff reports, compiled monthly status report for A-Tech management, reviewed and approved timesheets and handled candidate preliminary interviews and recommendations to both A-Tech and prime contractor.  ? Served as Ventech Compliance Team Manager from April 2016 till January 2017, managed and directed a team of 4 individuals. Draft and submit weekly and monthly deliverables to provide updates on SCA planning and execution, FISMA system status and overall POA&M remediation efforts. Managed the Security Controls Assessment (SCA) process, including all penetration and security control testing by 3rd party vendors (FYRM and Blue Canopy) and oversight of all related SCA documentation and processes.  ? Directly supported several FISMA systems to include the General Support System (GSS) and 3-4Major Applications (MAs). Ensured that all FISMA systems being developed were complaint with: NIST SP 800-34, NIST SP 800-53, NIST SP 800-63, NIST SP 800-64, CMS Program Information Security Policy, CMS Minimum Security Requirements (CMSR) and CMS Information Security (IS) Acceptable Risk Safeguards (ARS), Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPPA), as well as other applicable guidance documentation.  ? Responsible for all Authority To Operate (ATO) package documentation and package submittals to include: Risk Assessments (RA), System Security Plans (SSP), Contingency Plans (CP), Disaster Recovery Plans (DRP), Business Impact Analysis (BIA), Plans of Actions and Milestones (POA&M), for assigned FISMA systems, as well as, assisting Compliance Team members with their assigned FISMA systems. These tasks were continuously conducted throughout the entire Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC).  ? Tailored FISMA systems SSPs and security controls to accurately capture and define the responsibilities of the consuming systems and the inherited services provided by FedRamp systems such as; AWS, O365, Okta, etc.  ? Led several projects to enhance overall security posture, such as;  * Updating of Contingency Plan (CP) template and creation of Business Impact Analysis (BIA) template to meet CMS' Risk Management Handbook (RMH) and NIST SP 800-34 guidance. Also responsible for TableTop Testing (TTT) of all CPs on the contract.  * Analysis of OWASP Top 10 web application threats and security tools that could be utilized for each vulnerability.  * Analysis of Static and Dynamic Application Security Testing (SAST/DAST) tools for use by GSS infrastructure contractor and Application Developer Organizations (ADOs).  * Analysis of Trusted Internet Connections (TIC) architecture and NIST 800-53r4 requirements. Led review of GSS infrastructure teams to correctly identify how the GSS was meeting the TIC requirements.  ? Draft, evaluate and update IT/Cyber Security policies and procedures for compliance with regulations, guidelines, and industry best practices. Senior Security Analyst Edaptive Systems LLC - Owings Mills, MD August 2014 to March 2016 ? Directly supported four (4) FISMA system, as part of the development and internal infrastructure teams, ensured systems being developed were complaint with: NIST SP 800-34, NIST SP 800-53, NIST SP 800-63, NIST SP 800-64, CMS Program Information Security Policy, CMS Minimum Security Requirements (CMSR) and CMS Information Security (IS) Acceptable Risk Safeguards (ARS), Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPPA), as well as other applicable guidance documentation.  ? Coordinated development and infrastructure teams to create, review, and/or modify security documentation for the Authority To Operate (ATO) package documentation to include: Risk Assessments (RA), System Security Plans (SSP), Plans of Actions and Milestones (POA&Ms), and Baseline Configurations. These tasks were continuously conducted throughout the entire Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC).  ? Conducted web application testing utilizing OWASP ZAP throughout application development to identify vulnerabilities, risks, and remediation requirements, prior to "final" code delivery to penetration and security control testing by 3rd party vendors as part of the Security Controls Assessment (SCA) process.  ? Utilized Tenable/Nessus to perform vulnerability and compliance scanning of web application and hosts.  ? Coordinated ADO's participation in formal SCA processes by 3rd party vendors (Foundstone, LBMC and FYRM) and oversight of all ADO related SCA documentation and any vulnerability mitigation efforts during the SCA engagement.  ? Draft, evaluate and update Edaptive security policies and procedures for compliance with regulations, guidelines, and industry best practices. Senior Security Analyst General Dynamics Information Technologies January 2011 to August 2014 ? Directly supported six (6) FISMA systems, ensuring that the all FISMA systems being developed were complaint with: NIST SP 800-34, NIST SP 800-53, NIST SP 800-63, NIST SP 800-64, CMS Program Information Security Policy, CMS Minimum Security Requirements (CMSR) and CMS Information Security (IS) Acceptable Risk Safeguards (ARS), Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPPA), as well as other applicable guidance documentation.  ? Responsible for all Authority To Operate (ATO) package documentation and package submittals to include: Risk Assessments (RA), System Security Plans (SSP), Contingency Plans (CP), Disaster Recovery Plans (DRP), Plans of Actions and Milestones (POA&Ms), and Baseline Configurations for new and existing FISMA systems. These tasks were continuously conducted throughout the entire Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC).  ? Acted as Project Manager for the Security Controls Assessment (SCA) process, including all penetration and security control testing by 3rd party vendors (Mitre & Foundstone) and oversight of all related SCA documentation.  ? Provided oversight for POA&Ms identified during security audits and tracked through lifecycle up to and including vulnerability remediation.  ? Draft, evaluate and update IT/Cyber Security policies and procedures for compliance with regulations, guidelines, and industry best practices. Business Unit Coordinator / IT Administrator Buccaneer, A General Dynamics Company - Owings Mills, MD July 2009 to January 2011 ? Coordinate all activities between the corporate office and the ESD Business Unit.  ? Assist BU Manager in monitoring and tracking BU Profit & Loss. Responsible for completing monthly IPR.  ? Assist in Proposal Work Support & Review, such as editing and coordinating proposals.  ? Conducted daily office operations; including LAN administration, site security, and corporate onsite maintenance, HR, timekeeping/payroll, purchasing system, etc. President & CEO ArchAngel Global Services LLC - Richmond, VA June 2008 to April 2010 ? Designed and implemented:  * Physical security for multiple sites, to include protective details and roaming patrols.  * Electronic security for multiple sites, to include access control, alarms, and CCTV.  ? Provided threat/risk assessments for private and corporate clients, as well as firearms training and IT security.  ? Created all corporate policy, procedure and training manuals.  ? Responsible for the daily operations of the firm, including contract and proposal writing for maritime security, executive protection, electronic security and private investigations.  ? Responsible for total P&L accountability, including budgets, cash flow, operations, and marketing.  ? Ensured full compliance with all federal, state and local government requirements; including, but not limited to, EPA, OSHA, labor, and payroll. Enterprise Technology Analyst Meridian Medical Technologies, Inc - Columbia, MD December 2004 to October 2008 ?  Network Engineer – Windows NT 4.0 - 2003, Windows 2000 - XP, and Novell 5+ networks.  ?  Developed and implemented:  * Build-out of two new office spaces, including vendor bidding and contract negotiation.  * Strategies for IT transition for new foreign acquisition.  * Strategies for IT security and physical security audits, reviews and implementation.  * Strategies for migration from Novell to Windows Server 2003 AD, as well as migration from Lotus Notes to Exchange 2003.  ?  Responsible for management of two corporate headquarter offices and corporate websites.  ?  Administered SalesForce.com web-based sales, marketing and contracts database.  ?  Design, implementation and management of physical security for multiple sites to include access control, alarms, CCTV and guard response.  ?  Researched and implemented IT security systems and their associated software; including firewalls, VPNs, intrusion detection systems (IDS), intrusion prevention systems (IPS), and antivirus software.  ?  Oversight of systems penetration testing in order to identify vulnerabilities.  ?  Trained employees on security awareness and ITAR information security requirements.  ?  Installation of a new VTC system, production servers, PCs and corporate system upgrades.  ?  Assist ET Director with management of ET acquisitions process, including quotes, POs and CARs. Network Engineer TRG Networking, Inc - Owings Mills, MD June 2001 to December 2004 ?  Network Engineer – Windows NT 4.0 - 2000, Windows 95 - XP, Novell 3+, and Mac OS 7.61+ networks.  ?  Developed and implemented:  * Strategies for migration from Windows NT 4.0 to Windows 2000 AD and Exchange 5.5 to Exchange 2000.  * Strategies for client/server and peer-to-peer LAN/WAN networks, utilizing VPNs and Citrix Metaframe.  * Strategies for LAN/WAN Backup and Disaster Recovery systems using either ARCserve or Backup Exec.  * Strategies for LAN file maintenance that is specific to the clients’ individual requirements.  ?  Researched, selected, and installeded new hardware and software for use within individual client sites.  ?  Experience with installing and troubleshooting HR and Business software packages; such as Ceridian, Kronos, Keane, Progress, Dynamics, Pervasive, StatBill, PeachTree and TigerPaw. CIS Manager LCNI of MD/Carroll County Times - Westminster, MD October 2000 to June 2001 ? Systems Administrator - Windows NT 4.0, Novell 3.12, Windows 95 - 2000, and Mac OS 6 - 7.61+ networks.  ? Developed and implemented:  * System integration of Windows NT 4.0, Windows 95/98 and Mac OS 7.61 - 9.1.  * Strategies for server and network migration from Novell 3.12 to Windows NT 4.0.  * Backup system migration from ARCserve to Backup Exec.  * Network strategy for file maintenance of production and administrative departments.  * Capital Budget Requests for projects exceeding $2,500.  ? Facilitated installation of APT ACT Editorial System, production Servers, PCs and corporate system upgrades.  ? Researched, selected, and installed new hardware and software for use within the organization.  ? Research replacement systems for PBX Phone System and Access Control, CCTV and Payroll Badge Systems. Database Administrator Victor Graphics, Inc - Baltimore, MD November 1997 to October 2000 ? Database and Assistant Network Administrator - Windows NT 4.0 and Windows 95 - 98 networks.  ? Assisted in the design and implementation of client/server LAN network and overall system integration.  ? Troubleshot PC, network, and compatibility issues; as well as support for offsite sales staff.  ? Developed, implemented, and maintained database architecture and schema for MS Access.  ? Provided monthly and quarterly reports for sales and marketing activities. Protective Services Manager St. Agnes Healthcare - Baltimore, MD September 1992 to November 1997 ? Progressed from Officer to Training Officer to Department Night Manager.  ? Systems Administrator for security databases, security reports, access control system, and CCTV.  ? Developed and implemented:  * Capital Budget proposal for physical security at Baltimore location.  * Physical security installation and conducted post install evaluation and testing.  * Departmental policies, procedures and training manuals.  * Training program, with emphasis on Crisis Prevention.  ? Conducted incident report investigations and coordinated with local Law Enforcement authorities.  ? Analysis of department restructuring with regards to staffing, capital and operating budget impact.  ? HR functions included maintaining employee files, disciplinary actions, payroll, and incident reports.  ? Ensured federal, state, and OSHA requirements within the department. Education Bachelor of Science in Political Science Towson State University May 1992 Associate of Arts Catonsville Community College May 1991 Skills EXCHANGE, FIREWALLS, REMEDY, NESSUS, SECURITY Additional Information Computer Skills:  ? Operating Systems - Windows 98 - 10, Windows Server 2000 - 2008, Mac OS 7.61 - 10.0, NetWare 5.0 - 6.5  ? System/ Security Applications - ARCserve, Backup Exec, Citrix Metaframe, MS ISA, SonicWALL, Elron Firewalls, OWASP ZAP, Nessus  ? System Hardware - LAN/WAN (hardware and wiring), PC and Mac hardware  ? Applications - Microsoft Products (Office, Project, Visio, FrontPage, Exchange, SharePoint), Lotus Notes, Remedy, Service Now, Confluence, Jira, GitHub.