Systems Security Analyst Systems <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Information Systems Security Officer at Community Surgical Supply Fort Worth, TX Work Experience Systems Security Analyst Community Surgical Supply - Toms River, NJ July 2011 to May 2012 Responsible for managing Information Systems Security department in the company. Developed plans to assess the company network hardware and software according to HIPAA, HITECH act and NIST 800-30 standards. Documented vulnerabilities and threats related to physical and software computer security. Documented actions and resolutions to information security issues. In charge of enforcing all IT policies Junior IT administrator Community Surgical Supply - Toms River, NJ February 2010 to May 2012 Deployed Dell PC equipment. Joined computers to company domain. Managed WSUS server, Microsoft Windows 2000 and 2008 virtual servers. Install Microsoft Office 2003 and antivirus software in PC workstations using Symantec Console. Created new users in Microsoft Active Helped users with software issues. Opened tickets with software vendors to resolve issues. Troubleshooted connectivity and printer problems. Helped users with computer and software problems. Software Support Technician Celerant Technology - Staten Island, NY May 2009 to 2010 Resolved POS software, connectivity, and technical issues over the phone. Created tickets using Lotus Notes, executed SQL and Interbase statements and procedures. Connected remotely to servers over the network using VNC, PC Anywhere, and Windows RDP. Deployed and set up company software in client's servers. Followed up with clients on software problems, reported bugs and worked with software developers to fix issues. Education Master of Science in Information Technology Nova Southeastern University - Fort Lauderdale, FL 2012 to 2013 Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems DeVry University - North Brunswick, NJ 2005 to 2009 Associate in Applied Science in Computer Science Brookdale Community College - Lincroft, NJ 2002 to 2005 Skills Netowork + Cerrified, A+ Certified, CCNA Candidate, Security + Candidate Additional Information Software: C++, C#, Visual Studio .Net, SQL database, VNC, Lotus Notes, Remote Desktop, PC Anywhere, Symantec Antivirus Console, Websense Firewall, Microsoft Active Directory, Microsoft Exchange 2010, Windows WSUS server,ThinPrint, TCP/IP, FTP, Telnet protocols  Hardware: Network infrastructure products including Fiber Optics, Cat5e, Cat6 standards and telecommunications equipment