IT Consultant/Personal Development <span class="hl">IT</span> Consultant/Personal Development System Engineer/ Security Engineer Chandler, AZ I have a degree in Information systems and 15+ years in UNIX/Linux, VMWARE and Wintel Systems/Software engineering and application administration in multi-tier application environments for large enterprises in healthcare, automobile, retail and telecom industries. Demonstrated ability to gain customer trust and provide exceptional follow-up, leading to efficient resolution and increased customer satisfaction. I have a talent for identifying customer needs and presenting diagnosis via comprehensive troubleshooting on various UNIX Wintel servers and Applications. Worked on various projects and independently managed all individual project assignments, attended relevant meetings, produced accurate status reports and delivered committed work per scheduled project milestones. I work well in groups or autonomously as I'm highly self-motivated. I am goal oriented as well as driven by results, always looking for ways to contribute to my employers and thus my success. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Consultant/Personal Development Cyber Security - Chandler, AZ June 2018 to Present Current working as an IT Consultant on different projects, working on obtaining my AWS certification and going to school as well to get a degree in Cyber Security. Analyst Sr Systems Integration Honeywell Aerospace - Phoenix, AZ October 2017 to June 2018 Worked as an Infrastructure Linux Systems engineer on the design and support of Honeywell Aerospace complex Virtual data centers (Xen, VMWARE and New Hyper V infrastructure). Worked mostly on Linux server servers, existing application refactoring and new application onboarding, daily backup monitoring, network support. Daily role included monitoring the servers and application, resolving incident tickets and platform charges through change management and also performed duties, Setup servers and wrote and modified existing Ansible scripts to to automate tasks and update system components, Support Honeywell Aerospace Server/Database/Application encryption technology and encryption key management. Systems Engineer General Motors - Chandler, AZ January 2014 to September 2017 Software Engineer  Use GM Open Source discovery tool Blackduck suite to help manage codes and to scan OSS components for deep licensing data for review by Legal and Enterprise Architecture teams as a part of approval of use of OSS component and adding it to GM IT Standard catalog.  -Obtain requirements from Solution Architect, upload component to Artifactory, and build job through Jenkins. Generate reports used by architects and legal staff to approve open source usage. Automate the open source scanning process using the Black Duck SDK. Software testing and quality assurance. Proactively engage in the remediation of open source software issues.  -Performed Dev Ops duties, software development practices, combines software development and information technology operations and Assisted with refining the Software Development Life Cycle to fit system needs.  - Worked on Projects tasks bringing new tools in house. Tasks included installation and configuration of servers and applications such as Artifactory, Jenkins, Blackduck and Atlassian products: Jira, Confluence, Bitbucket, Bamboo and Octopus deploy,  -Attended projects meetings and presented deliverable to teams and dealership.    Systems Engineer  Worked in the GMIT Hosting Management team supporting VMWARE VSphere for about one year and transitioned to the UNIX/Linux space during re-org which carries the responsibility for maintenance of the very core of GM infrastructure.  -Manage incident, complete platform service request and change management submitted through ITSM. Role include but not limited to contributing daily to Operational Efficiency by developing best in class operating processes and procedures, maintained established service levels for all service manager queues, assess current platform tools and automation processes and make recommendations where gaps exist and Manage assigned change activity to ensure compliance with existing approved maintenance windows.  -Build productive and long lasting customer relationships, Analyze assigned project portfolio, reach out to respective PMs for each project, deliver engagement process and service presentations. Respond to all project communications (emails, meeting requests, and status update requests) on time with relevant, meaningful and accurate information Systems Engineer Coventry healthcare/New Aetna - Phoenix, AZ October 2012 to September 2013 -Performed first level server/network administration  -Responsible for monitoring and operating platforms, Windows Servers, Unix (AIX, Solaris, Linux) systems, Netbackup, Database(Oracle, SQL and Informix), UPS monitoring.  -Restored files in UNIX, Linux, and Windows environments using NetBackup.  -Works closely with clients; vendors; and other technical staff to identify and resolve issues or problems that impact the network.  -Consults with clients and other technical staff on network; UNIX/Linux/VMS/Windows/SAN design; implementation; or maintenance issues.  - Worked on differents projects bringing new tools in house: Installation, configuration and support of Artifactory, Blackduck, and Atlassian tools: Jira, Confluence, bitbucket and bamboo, crucible, FishEye.  -Monitored enterprise websites using vba scripting tools. Maintained and updated scripts as needed.  -Performed first level problem diagnostics, identification and resolution; execute Incident Management, escalation and notification procedures UNIX Systems Admin/Professional Network Support A&T Mobility - Atlanta, GA February 2007 to July 2011 Atlanta, GA  - Operated and maintained the computing environment, including system upgrades, file management, user access, performance monitoring and tuning, software distribution and configuration management, event monitoring, data storage retention, tape backups and disaster recovery.  - Maintained service security through compliance with security guidelines, audits, access validation, and user education.  - Worked on projects, gathering requirement and presenting to teams and leadership.  - Develop and maintain our team sharepoint site.  -Worked closely with other Operations team members, including Database Administrators, Management, Engineers, Vendors (Sun/Oracle, Nokia, Ericson, Siemens, Nortel) and MNOC staff. Develop, compile, maintain and review essential documentation to ensure reliable operation of systems and services.  Identified problems, trends, deficiencies, and effectively communicated such conditions to peers, management and other work groups. Work on special technical projects to support Operations as assigned. Security Analyst Access Management Team/Contractor AT&T - Alpharetta, GA April 2005 to February 2007 w/Tek Systems    Support of encryption key management with secured Token. Provided support to Key members in the transitioning of AT&T clients to the Cingular environment after Cingular Wireless and AT & T merger Assisted with login and application support for Cingular Wireless employees Responsible for the administration of Secure ID (RAS) cards for remote dial in system Manage access to proprietary Applications through a secure web ticketing system, account administrative support for various departments & assisted in security application testing, Ensured system compliance with Corporate Security Standards, Escalated application and hardware issues to appropriate groups for prompt resolutions. Provided after hour on-call rotation support Trained new hire, prepare weekly reports, monitor and evaluate performance. Education Bachelor's in Cyber Security Western Governors University - Chandler, AZ December 2018 to Present Associate in Computer information systems San Diego Mesa College - San Diego, CA January 1999 to July 2001 Skills Aix, Linux, Red hat, Shell scripts, Solaris, Security, Active Directory, access