IT Implementation Engineer <span class="hl">IT</span> Implementation Engineer IT Implementation Engineer - BASIS.ed/BASIS Independent Schools Phoenix, AZ Work Experience IT Implementation Engineer BASIS.ed/BASIS Independent Schools - Phoenix, AZ January 2019 to Present Phoenix, AZ  BASIS.ed\BASIS Independent is an international multi-brand school network, spanning infant care through high school.  IT Implementation Engineer  * Oversee the deployment and integration of operational and school curriculum applications using Agile project management methodologies.  * Supervise site technical coordinators on daily support activities. Ensure ITIL process are adhered to according to organizational service level agreements via the enterprise help desk application.  * Direct resources on new school development. Confirm vendors and staff adhere to organizational standards ensuring project success.  * Develop innovative business processes, providing oversight and direction for process improvement across multiple departments.  * Liaison between programmers and operations staff on application development. Ensure application versions meet user expectations.  * Formulate, direct and monitor user acceptance testing plans to certify quality assurance prior to software delivery.  * Transform internal business processes, providing oversight and direction for process improvement across multiple departments.  * Team with executive management on application development strategies that improve enterprise protocols and standard operating procedures.  * Ensure network documentation, policies and procedures are current.  * Review the project schedules with senior management and all stakeholders affected by the project activities; revise the schedule as required.  * Define, implement and ensure compliance to all applicable best practices and project management standards, processes, procedures. Ensure the utilization of tools and methodologies contributing to error-free project deliverables.  * Generate, implement and measure vendor performance and quality standards. Hold vendors and staff accountable when required outcomes are not met.  * Utilize vast Information Technology experience and expertise in recommending and procuring IT products, services and systems  * Thoroughly evaluate all organizational IT service contracts, including software agreements and vendor engagements. Reject, modify or approve contracts based on key business criteria and contract quality.  * Develop IT project timelines. Work closely with upper management, architectural team and vendors to deliver on-time and within budget.  * Formulate IT project budgets and actively ensure adherence to budgets.  * Proactively monitor network resources. Direct responses to network issues.  * Ensure network documentation is current.  * Establish new inventory processes. IT Director/HIPAA Security Officer Christian Care Companies - Phoenix, AZ February 2006 to June 2018 Phoenix, AZ  Christian Care is a non-profit healthcare organization, offering Skilled Nursing, Assisted Living, Memory Care and Home Health Services to low income Seniors.  IT Director/HIPAA Security Officer  * Successfully maintained organization's plus CapEx and Operating IT budget.  * Oversaw (within Budget and on-time) integration and deployment of iCIMS Recruitment system, reducing application drop-offs by more than 20%, while increasing efficiency of Hiring Managers and HR staff.  * Ranked and managed all IT related projects, from complex Infrastructure to Enterprise Application deployments (both on-premise and Cloud) using standard predictive Project Management methodologies (Waterfall/SDLC). Excellent track-record of being on-time and on budget.  * Established and maintained Data Integration between the ERP, HRIS, Recruitment and EHR applications realizing a significant increase in efficiency. Worked with Senior members of Finance, HR and Operations to validate the integrity of Data Integration. Databases include Oracle (ADP), SQL (ERP), Progress and Excel.  * Established and maintained organizations strategic technology plan, ensuring alignment with the overall Business requirements and the organization's mission. Performed risk analysis, developed security processes, IT policies and procedures and compliance plan in response to external and internal audits,  * Managed all aspects of multi-site Windows server (Virtual and Physical) and network infrastructure. Responsibilities included management of Active Directories, DNS, DCHP, IP Subnets, Switches, Routers, Firewall technologies and Mobile Device Management.  * Sponsored, managed and directed both internal and external staff on critical Business initiatives in security, infrastructure, HRIS, EHR, ERP and Business Intelligence.  * Teamed with other Executive Managers and Key Stakeholders to produce Key Performance Indicators, create data models for use in High-Level Dashboards of mission-critical Business applications. Provided real-time data to scheduling managers reducing labor costs by 2%.  * Built high performing teams through staff development, adapting management style as necessary. Directed and prioritized the workload of IT staff, contractors and vendors. Employee management responsibilities included conflict resolution, hiring, terminations, performance improvement and reviews.  * Confirmed IT staff and vendor adherence to IT Department Service Level Agreements through regular meetings, proper scheduling and the use of quantifiable analysis and metrics using ManageEngine ServiceDesk Pro.  * Worked with IT staff to perform routine testing of Disaster\Data Recovery systems attaining 100% recovery rate within 4 hours. Confirmed operations of fault tolerant infrastructure performance in a complex multi-site Data-Center configuration achieving 99.99% uptime.  * Ensured IT staff performed proper administration and access control of key business cloud and on-premise applications (ADP, iCIMS, MDM, EHR and ERP) as required by HIPAA & PCI.  * Ensured Windows\Linux servers (both internal and SaaS) and network hardware operated within proper parameters to deliver stable access to end users. Monitored and controlled operations of the Data Center by actively monitoring data-load statistics.  * Maintained security of desktops and servers utilizing Enterprise Anti-Virus software, Spam-Filtering and Next Generation Firewall technologies.  * Attended monthly Senior Management meetings. Effectively analyzed, prioritized and responded to Site Director requests and Business requirements. Provided appropriate technical solutions.  * Managed the day to day operations and functionality of VoIP and A\V systems. Immediately corrected connectivity and hardware issues.  * Ensured servers, desktops and hardware were patched utilizing WSUS and KACE Patch Management appliance. Imaged and deployed desktops using Microsoft Windows Deployment Services (WDS). Oversaw inventory of hardware and software.  * Created and documented software training processes for organizational user. Maintained the Enterprise Knowledge base, for effective employee self-service.  * Thoroughly analyzed Help Desk response processes, establishing strong customer service requirements for IT staff. Worked with team to resolve issues and advocated for appropriate service-focused resolutions.  * Effectively managed the security of mobile devices utilizing VMWare Airwatch mobile device management application. Verified staff were properly trained on various mobile device platforms.  * Increased value of existing Help Desk, EHR, HRIS and ERP systems by continuously evaluating and enhancing existing processes. Strategically developed and integrated these applications to generate critical business analytics and mid-management Dashboards for staff.  * Aggressively assessed emerging technologies and provided organizational leadership by advocating progressive, state-of-the-art business solutions. Recognized and exploited trends in Technology.  * Reported the status and progress of IT initiatives to CEO and other Senior Managers. Network Administrator/Communications Manager & IT Officer First National Bank of Santa Fe - Santa Fe, NM July 2001 to September 2005 First National Bank of Santa Fe was the second largest community bank in New Mexico. Services included community banking, private banking and financial advisement.  * Developed and maintained workstation imaging process, reducing deployment time by 50%  * Preserved OCC, SEC and GLBA compliance.  * Effectively managed and directed department vendors on Bank projects and maintenance issues.  * Maintained and troubleshot workstation AS/400 client access software.  * Assisted the AS/400 Main Frame operator with maintaining user account access and OS/400 banking systems.  * Preserved Internet security by monitoring ISA/IDS logs and applying policy changes when appropriate.  * Maintained Windows Server security patches and updates.  * Managed Microsoft Exchange and troubleshot system issues.  * Performed and verified daily backups on all Windows Servers.  * Lead or assisted on IT related Bank projects as directed by Senior Management.  * Developed and deployed multi-platform PC images for all Windows workstations.  * Supported all Windows workstation software and hardware issues.  * Maintained Inter-Tel telecommunications systems and VoIP telephony.  * Analyzed and troubleshot all LAN, WAN connectivity as well as systems availability issues.  * Reported to the CIO on budgetary considerations, making recommendations and procurements.  * Ensured operational stability of the Data Center. Systems Analyst II/Communications Officer New Mexico Department of Health - Santa Fe, NM March 2000 to July 2001 The New Mexico Department of Health is a New Mexico state government agency offering public health services to the citizens of New Mexico.  * Assisted in the analysis of District hardware, software, and voice communication needs. Actions included installation, updating, and maintenance of hardware and software on Windows NT/2000 Workstations and Servers, and Cisco routers.  * Communicated systems status to all DOH, Public Health Division users.  * Actively participated in advancing the Data Management processes of the various Department of Health outreach programs.  * Assisted staff in use of applications and resolve hardware and software problems.  * Assessed District software and hardware needs; developed and tested software models leading to plans for installing; and upgrading critical Business Applications that provided efficient use of time and other resources.  * Identified areas needing improvement in District Networks and implemented solutions.  * Worked with the systems and network staff to maintain and enhance the Experience Continued Public Health Division wide area network in District I and II with an emphasis on responding to Bio-Terrorist events.  * Directed and implemented training for District Employees. Network Administrator Rikoon Investment Advisors - Santa Fe, NM September 1998 to March 2000 Rikoon Investment Advisors was a multi-faceted investment advisory firm providing financial planning solutions to high net-worth individuals in the city of Santa Fe.  * Resolved Local Area Network connectivity issues.  * Maintained network security, fault tolerance, and disaster recovery systems as regulated by the SEC.  * Report system status to Chief Operating Officer.  * System hardware and software maintenance.  * Windows NT 4.0 Active Directory Maintenance. Education Maricopa Community College - Phoenix, AZ 2012 CCNA Santa Fe Community College - Santa Fe, NM 2002 MCSE Santa Fe Community College - Santa Fe, NM 1999 to 2000 Bachelor of Arts in Economics Western Illinois University - Macomb, IL 1989 to 1993 Skills Cisco, Data center, Dns, Exchange, Hipaa, Nas, Network administration, Vlan, Adfs, Ehr, Erp, Change management, Systems management, Data protection, Nist, Vpn, Security, Sharepoint, Avaya, Mitel, Vendor Management, Excel, Customer Service, Strategic Planning Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/dhfriday Additional Information Skills  Project Management; Strategic Planning; Enterprise Change Management; Staff Management and Team Buidling; Cloud Integration; HIPAA, HiTECH and OCC Compliance; NIST Framework; Access Control; API and Application Integrations; Data Center Management; Converged Infrastructure; Network Administration; Software and Hardware Inventory Control; Infrastructure Development; Metro-Ethernet; MPLS; Internet Security; Axxess EHR; Point Click Care EHR; Salibas EHR; HRIS (ADP\Kronos, iCIMS) Administration; Yardi ERP Administration; Microsoft Cluster Services; Microsoft Active Directories; LDAP, ADFS; MS Group Policy; Microsoft Exchange Server; Jira Service Desk and Project Management, Wrike, MS Project, SharePoint; ManageEngine Service Desk Plus; Happy Fox; WSUS; Microsoft Hyper-V; TCP\IP; DNS; DHCP; Microsoft Data Protection Manager; Windows 10, 7, 8; Microsoft Office (Office 365); Visio; Skype for Business, SAN, NAS Storage; Ruckus Zone Director WiFi; Cisco WiFi; SonicPoint WiFi; 802.1X; HP\Aruba Network Switches; Cisco Routers; HP\Aruba Layer 3 switches; VLAN Configuration and Management; Sonicwall Next-Generation Firewall; Barracuda spam filter; VPN; POS Hardware; CardWatch POS; Vipre Security Suite, Symantec Corporate Security Suite; VMWare AirWatch Mobile Device Management; KACE Patch and Systems Management; Hardware and Software RAID; Dell & HP Server; WAN architecture and management; Avaya IP Office; Adobe Connect; Audio Visual Systems; PaperCut Print Management; LogMeIn Central Desktop Management; Avaya VoIP; MiTel VoIP