IT Security Administrator <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> Administrator Network Systems Administrator Concord, NC IT Professional with 16 years of experience supporting Microsoft Windows servers, desktop computers. Extensive experience in managing Cisco infrastructure devices such as managed switches, integrated service routers, firewalls, wireless access points, and mobile devices. Experience managing IT Security for medium to large businesses, along with a decade of experience managing Cybersecurity in the military. Strengths lie in organization, written and oral communication, technology, project management, critical thinking, troubleshooting, customer service, and problem analysis and resolution. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Security Administrator Core Technology Solutions - Mint Hill, NC August 2018 to Present Tests, implements and deploys infrastructure hardware and software    Responds to crisis or urgent situations within the network to mitigate immediate and potential cyber threats    Conduct systems security evaluations, audits and reviews to identify, analyze, and report events that occur or might occur within the network in order to protect information, information systems, and networks from threats    Monitor and track controlled access programs to ensure implementation and viability of appropriate systems security policies, as well as the acquisition of IT security tools.    Conduct vulnerability analysis and risk assessment studies of planned and installed information systems to assure that local AIS security plans and policies established are adequate for protection needs and comply as required by statute.    Review proposed new systems, networks, and software designs for potential security risks; recommend mitigation or countermeasures, and resolve integration issues related to the implementation of new systems within the existing infrastructure.    Develop contingency plans (Disaster Recovery or Business Continuation Plans for information technology systems) to ensure availability and accessibility of network resources.    Develop long-range plans for IT security systems that anticipate, identify, evaluate, mitigate, and minimize risks associated with IT systems vulnerabilities.    Review security incident response policies and identify the need for changes based on new security technologies or threats.    Implement security requirements, integrate security programs and define the scope and level of detail for security plans and policies.  Information Systems Support Specialist US Army Reserve - Concord, NC February 2009 to Present Supervises the deployment, installation and operation of unit level computer systems. Maintain, repairs and replaces PC hardware, servers, network printers, and other peripherals as required. Provide technical support to user Assigns duties, and coordinates activities of personnel engaged in information system analysis. Manages and ensures the certification of all users and monitors illegal use of the government computer systems.    Skills Used  Security Clearance Microsoft Certified Professional System Administration  Windows Server DNS DHCP  VMware Active Directory Windows 7  Network Administration CCNA Switches  Routers Firewalls WAN  VPN MPLS Frame Relay  Metro Ethernet Network Manager Cogency Global, Inc. - Charlotte, NC May 2015 to May 2018 Managed the design, installation, testing, implementation, and maintenance of wired and wireless network infrastructure for 14 offices worldwide.     Programmed, deployed and managed Cisco ISRs, ASAs and L2/L3 Catalyst switches.     Installed, configured and tested LAN and WAN networks across MPLS IPVPN circuits.     Designed, deployed and maintained connectivity between remote sites via VPN    Utilized Solarwinds and other network management tools to monitor device configurations, network health, performance and system architecture.     Conducted integrated analysis of multiple audit logs (e.g. firewall, Web server, Solarwinds, SNMP Manager).    Participated in design, development, acceptance testing, and implementation of software programs and network equipment.     Installed, configured and tested network workstations and peripherals.    Created network maps, and troubleshoot network problems     Prepared and maintained documentation outlining equipment operations and preventative maintenance.    Analyzed complete documentation on the up time and reliability of systems to provide necessary information for contract enforcement.    Provided advice and assistance concerning computer software and/or equipment specifications for the utilization and acquisition, resolve issues involving conflicting requirements. Network Administrator Moss Supply Company - Charlotte, NC January 2015 to May 2015 Builds, configures and manages physical and virtual Microsoft Windows servers. Administers an Active Directory environment including group policies, scripting and auditing. Monitors server performance and maintenance to include drive maintenance, monitoring logs, performance counters, and system connectivity. Responsible for hardware refreshes, mainframe upgrades, network optimization, anti-virus updates, backups, system restore disaster recovery. Manages Cisco L2/L3 network equipment and security appliances. Manages DHCP, DNS, network scopes, VOIP ( Cisco Call manager), security and permissions, groups. Configures and deploys wireless controllers and access points. Manages the design, installation, testing, implementation and maintenance of the wireless network infrastructure.    Projects  * Uninstall, disassemble and repair Powervault Tape drive. Re-install tape drive. Install and configure Symantec Backup Exec 2014 across server infrastructure. Further develop, implement and maintain policies, procedures, and programs for ensuring the security and integrity of company data, databases, information systems, and technology.  * Repaired DHCP and DNS servers, reestablishing connectivity to company workstations  * Updated, virtualized and migrated multiple mission critical Windows Server 2003 servers to newly built Server 2012 boxes. IT Support Technician Richland County School District One - Columbia, SC March 2008 to January 2015 Worked in a break-fix environment providing onsite and remote technical support to over 29,000 users, encompassing a footprint of more than 482 square miles. Monitored wireless LAN/WAN appliances and repaired/reconfigured devices as required. Installed, configured and tested network appliances. Troubleshot and resolved malfunctions with software applications, computing systems, networking equipment. Maintains Microsoft desktop operating systems, Novell GroupWise Email, Microsoft Servers, SMART Board Systems touch systems, network printers and networked multifunction machines. Information Systems Analyst US Army Reserve - Columbia, SC January 2009 to January 2010 Provided support for more than 700 workstations and 250 soldiers in a geographically area including 13 states in the Southeastern United States. Traveled to multiple sites throughout the Southeast providing technical support. Managed and ensured the technical certification and information system access of all users. Monitored illegal use of the government computer systems. Installed, maintained, repaired and replaced PC hardware, servers, printers, and other  peripherals as required. NOC Technician II BellSouth/AT&T - Columbia, SC May 2007 to March 2008 Worked in Network Operations Center providing Tier 2 support of Server Infrastructure, LAN & WAN voice and data telecommunications and applications, and other "custom applications and services" to business class customers. Provided telephone support, Tier II troubleshooting and problem solving using documentation, knowledge bases, and deployment network and IT management tools. Education Associate's in Networking System Management Midlands Technical College 2012 to 2014 Skills Wlan, Cisco, CCNP, Ccna Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/curtisdearl/ Military Service Branch: US Army Reserve Service Country: United States Rank: SGT, E-5 June 2000 to Present Certifications/Licenses Cisco Certified Network Associate August 2012 to August 2017 Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) Routing and Switching is a certification program for entry-level network engineers that helps maximize your investment in foundational networking knowledge and increase the value of your employer's network. CCNA Routing and Switching is for Network Specialists, Network Administrators, and Network Support Engineers with 1-3 years of experience. The CCNA Routing and Switching validates the ability to install, configure, operate, and troubleshoot medium-size routed and switched networks. Microsoft Certified Technical Associate December 2009 to Present Windows 7, Configuring Secret Security Clearance, Department of Defense March 2009 to March 2020 A valid IT Specialist certification