Identity and Access Management Analyst Identity and Access Management <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Identity and Access Management Analyst Clive, IA I am seeking a full time position that will utilize my current skill set while I continue to develop a more comprehensive understanding of the field of Information Technology. I am excited to apply the skills and expertise I've gained through higher education and previous employment experiences. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Identity and Access Management Analyst Farm Bureau - West Des Moines, IA March 2016 to April 2017 50266  ? Assisted in the planning and execution of two manual access reviews for all SOX/MAR systems used by the company.  ? Performed weekly Quality Reviews to ensure all Security Requests obtain the correct approvals and remediate any requests that don't meet the standard.  ? Performed a functional role clean-up project to remove redundant access.  ? Worked continuously to find areas in our processes that could be improved. I then worked with my team to design and implement changes to make them more effective and streamlined. IT Security Specialist Voya Financial - Des Moines, IA June 2015 to December 2015 50309  ? Worked on a team mitigating risk through the monitoring of controls used in managing user access and facilitating the remediation of defects.  ? Analyzed Quality Control Assessments to identify defects and discrepancies, provided user support through Service-Now ticketing system, and tested scripts used in the generation of Security Reports.  ? Utilized Continuous Improvement methodology to manage time and ensure consistent results in all areas of my work. Internship MidAmerican Energy Company - Urbandale, IA October 2014 to February 2015 50322  ? Assisted in the migration of reporting analyses from Oracle Discoverer to Oracle Business Intelligence Enterprise Edition 11g (OBIEE).  ? Primary assigned task was to troubleshoot and correct errors caused by the migration process and documenting progress.  ? Acquainted with various Oracle products such as Discoverer, BI Catalog Manager, and BI Administration Tool. Education Bachelors of Science in Management Information Systems Grand View University - Des Moines, IA December 2014 Associate of Arts in Computer Science Des Moines Area Community College - West Des Moines, IA May 2012