Ambulatory Epic Analyst/Print Management Ambulatory Epic <span class="hl">Analyst</span>/Print Management Ambulatory Epic Analyst - Peacehealth Springfield, OR Obtain a position as a team-player in a people-oriented organization where I can maximize my management experience in a challenging environment to achieve the corporate goals. Work Experience Ambulatory Epic Analyst/Print Management Peacehealth - Springfield, OR 2017 to Present • Participate in customer planning and discovery meetings with MPS Business Development Team.  • Responsible for conducting customer/client interviews and onsite inventory. Coordinates installation of data collection tools for device discovery information with IST and Product Engineers.  • Compiles and analyzes gathered data, information and customer needs.  • Performs development planning for the upgrade to future enterprise content management and workflow modifications/versions, to include updates to the integrated product suite.  • Develops and deploys various types of configuration and application components including object models, security, alias sets, workflow/business process management, lifecycles and user management.  • Develops high quality design documentation based on standard unified modeling language (workflow use cases, context diagrams, class models).  • Develops operational documentation that includes vendor and product evaluations, requirement documents, operational support documentation, test cases and training material. Evaluates and tests new models of printers with Epic application. Business Support/Owner Open Door Media - Springfield, OR 2005 to 2018 • Managed Service Provider  • Account Management/Operational Procedures  • Product Trainings and Seminars  • Social Media Management  • Administration of Electronic Health Records  • Active Member of many professional networking groups in the area, such as: Springfield Chamber, Eugene Chamber and BNI. Help Desk/Desktop Analyst Peacehealth - Springfield, OR 2014 to 2016 • Purchase, configure, and troubleshoot PC, printer and other desktop peripherals; Manage Active Directory user security, including activation of network ports.  • Participate in and lead software deployment projects, assist with implementation of server-based applications, train customers in the use of software.  • Support over 600 application through 8 hospitals and over 100 clinics.  • Administration of applications used to support users accessing citrix applications and/ or virtual desktops when they are logged into CAG (citrix access gateway). IT Manager Women's Care - Springfield, OR 2003 to 2005 • Administration of a SCO UNIX, MAC and Windows Servers  • Maintain all end-user training & support activities  • Manage vendors, coordinate & provide end user training and support  • Maintaining physical & virtual network security  • Database management (multiple systems)  • Administration of system access, permission structures, and group & user policies  • Planning and projecting network capacity needs; contribute to IT budgeting process CLC Coordinator Lane Community College - Eugene, OR 1995 to 2003 • Create online learning environments for students, staff and faculty.  • Oversee and plan budget for the Learning Center  • Assist faculty, staff and students in learning various software programs  • Assist students with their career planning and preparation.  • Assist students in college operations such as college finance, financial aid, programs and class selection.  • Install, configure and maintain computers throughout the campus to ensure consistency and optimization of resources. Security Specialist US Air Force - Colorado Springs, CO 1991 to 1994 • Provide security for NORAD and Space Command.  • Trained new flight members on security procedures, including weapon safety and armory operations  • Duties also included inventory of armory, security for the armory.  • Help design and develop new procedures and manuals for flight members.  • Preventive Law Enforcement Patrol.  • Conduct facility checks and walking patrols with MWD (Military Working Dog). MWD team response to Bomb threats, Narcotic suspicions and random base security searches. Education Health Information Systems Devry University 2016 Business/Computer Science Lane Community College 2003 Skills Training, Excellent communication skills, Marketing, Printing, Print Production, Diagnosis, Copier Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Rank: Senior Airman