Flagger/Traffic Control Flagger/Traffic Control Experienced Information Systems Technician Sterling, CO Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Flagger/Traffic Control Northern Colorado Traffic Control - Sterling, CO July 2019 to Present • Maintain all NTCT and CDOT regulated traffic control signs.  • Plan and execute daily traffic patterns for public safety.  • Work as team unit to ensure all road and highway regulations are met.  • Communicate with multiple contractors on a daily basis to ensure all traffic logistics are clear for public motorists. Information Security Analyst Saks Fifth Avenue / Hudson's Bay Company - Jackson, MS July 2018 to June 2019 • Active Directory Configuration and Administration  • Manage and maintain an Active Directory forest infrastructure  • Respond to High-Level Ticketing System  • Exchange Server Configuration and Administration Systems Engineer Blufinger Ecommerce Store/ blufinger.com - Brandon, MS July 2017 to July 2018 • Primary responsibilities included the Design and Integrations of all Web Systems and Apps  • Setup and Maintain Business Facebook Ads Manager Acct.  • Setup and Configure Google Analytics Business Reports for Analysis  • Setup and Configure Email Auto-responder  • Setup API Integrations for Website Payment Gateway  • Research/Integrate New Apps to use within the E-commerce Site Cost Estimator/ Electrical Installer Advanced Electric Service Inc. - Madison, MS August 2014 to July 2017 • Read electrical blueprints for proper wiring of residential and commercial projects.  • Meet daily with Contractors to ensure all proper wiring regulations are being met.  • Work as a team unit ensuring project completion dates are being met.  • Bid on new LED lighting technology jobs as a liaison between Entergy and AES, Inc to bring energy incentives for willing clients.  • Install low voltage camera systems using wireless IP and POE technology. Software Support Analyst eCash Software Systems - Flowood, MS August 2012 to August 2014 • Primary responsibilities include testing web-based software issues/bugs and providing detailed reports of problems to main developer.  • Create web-based PDF contracts to upload to website, create HTML documents, receipts and letters.  • Configure Firewall and Implement Network Security Measures  • Troubleshoot any issues clients may be having while logged into our software and resolving issue or creating ticket in support suite with detailed information for escalation to development team. IT Systems Administrator Cimarron Mortgage Co - Jackson, MS June 2010 to August 2012 • Maintain server configurations and performance along with security measures  • Monitor network traffic using sniffers and analyzers  • Configure Firewall and Implement Network Security Measures  • Perform computer upgrades and software installation  • Prepare daily reports for Department Executives Internet Remote Technician Comcast Advanced Solutions Center - Madison, MS October 2007 to June 2010 • Troubleshoot internet connection issues within a multi-layer application environment.  • Setup and configure Gateway access and wireless connections  • Configure email platform, using POP3 and IMAP  • Troubleshoot CDV VoIP issues with Gateway  • Update issues resolved within High-Level ticketing system. Computer Support Technician Mississippi Sports Medicine and Orthopedic Center - Jackson, MS September 2005 to October 2007 • Provided computer support for medical staff  • Setup and configure Gateway access and wireless connections points throughout clinic.  • Configure Barracuda Networks Spam filter.  • Setup and configure new end users access through Active Directory 2003  • Configure new email end users using Exchange Server 2003. Education Information Systems Technology Hinds Community College August 2018 to May 2019 Virginia College - Jackson, MS January 2006 to January 2007 Skills Information Systems (10+ years), Computer Networks (10+ years), Electrical (4 years) Certifications/Licenses CDOT Flagger Certification July 2019 to July 2021 Colorado Department of Transportation Flagger Certification Dell Certified Systems Repair Technician Present Able to troubleshoot and repair Dell Computer Systems.