IT Consultant <span class="hl">IT</span> Consultant IT Consultant - Keter Production Work Experience IT Consultant Keter Production February 2018 to Present • Consulting services of Securing Computers Networks and Databases for small and medium sizes of businesses.  • Create Database Roles, add Members and Names of users  • Instructing computer users on security  Active Directory Administrative Center  • Create and manage user, computer, and group accounts.  • Create and manage OUs.  • Connect to, and manage multiple domains.  • Create and manage Password Settings Objects (PSOs).  • Search and filter Active Directory data by building queries.  • Manage Dynamic Access Control (DAC) settings. Developer / Data Security Analyst VIP Las Vegas Travel L.L.C August 2007 to February 2018 Provided consulting services to redesigned, analyze and improve security Network and Data architectures of various Servers and PCs.  • Manage SQL Server with SQL Server Agent and Power Shell  • Create Database Roles, add Members and Names of users  • Monitoring SQL Server Activity and Performance, Errors, Extended Events  • Maintenance, Troubleshooting SQL Server  • Backing up SQL Server Databases and Transaction Logs  • Provided technical support and maintenance for Servers and PC stations. Utilized PCs.  • Installation and maintenance of security software  • Instructing computer users on security  • Ensuring networks are free of breaches  • Provided the expertise of designing and implementing of several technologies for better functionality of the web site. MIS / Data Security Analyst The New Frontier Hotel & Casino - Las Vegas, NV January 2006 to July 2007 Provided local area network (LAN) support for 200 clients running Windows pcs.  • Securing Data on AS-400 Unix base server and SQL Server  • Add Members and Names of users to Database SQL Server  • Redesigned Intranet Structure for the Executive, Sales and Marketing departments with strong security check-in point. Provided wireless connection support for Hotel's quests running Windows Operating System as well as MAC.  • Provided technical support for workstations, AS400 and Unix systems. Utilized PC Anywhere for remote services. IT Consultant / Data Analyst Netcomp - Santa Barbara, CA May 2002 to December 2005 • Provided consulting services to redesigned, analyze and improve network architectures and data schemes of various companies.  • Most projects encompassed the full cycle of E-Commerce initiatives and from start to turn of key.  • Major tasks included: Planning, Analysis, Secure & Design of objectives, Estimating and Allocation of resources, Organizing and Prioritization the work initiatives, Directing and Hiring of personnel, Tracking and Reporting progress, Defining the products of the project, Analysis of the results based on the facts achieved Education CCNA Cisco Networking Academy - Santa Barbara City College - Santa Barbara, CA 2003 to 2004 Bachelor of Science in Radio/Computer Engineering Far East Institute of the Consumer Services - Vladivostok, RU 1983 Skills Database administration, Database, Sql server, Sql, Dns Additional Information Technical Expertise  Database Operations: SQL Server Database Administration, Managing SQL Server Operations, Securing Data in Azure and SQL Server, Recovering Data in Azure and SQL Server, Provisioning Database in Azure and SQL Server  Network Operating Systems/Tools: Microsoft Windows NT Server 4.0, Windows NT 4.0 Workstation, Windows 2000 Server, Windows 2000 Advanced Server, Windows 2003 Server Enterprise Edition, Windows Server 2012, Windows XP Pro, Windows Vista Ultimate, Windows 7, Windows 10, Linux RedHat 6.2, Microsoft Systems Management Server (SMS), Microsoft Internet Information Server (IIS), Microsoft Domain Name Server (DNS), Microsoft SQL 2000-2017 servers, Active Directory, Exchange Server, Remotely Anywhere, VNC Server  Server Hardware: Olivetti LSX series, DELL PowerEdge series, HP ProLiant (Dual Xenon) server, IBM AS-4000, iSeries, Sun Cobalt network server RAQ 2 to 4 series  Networking Hardware: Cisco Routers and Switches  Networking Protocols: TCP/IP (DHCP, WINS, DNS, DICOM, FTP, SMTP, POP3)  Networking Topological: Ethernet, T1, DS3, and OC3.    Special Skills  Fluent in English and Russian.