Senior IT Systems Specialist III Senior <span class="hl">IT</span> Systems Specialist III IT Systems Administrator - Cyber Security Austin, TX Seeking a position to utilize my skills and abilities in Information Technology that offers professional growth while being resourceful and innovative. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior IT Systems Specialist III Innovative Aftermarket Systems - Austin, TX March 2017 to Present • Setup Identity Connect for Salesforce Active Directory integration.  • Setup shadow copy on all department file shares to provide extra backup redundancy.  • Enabled group policy account management to allow email notification script of account lockouts.  • Setup and managed users on Fuze, InContact and 8x8 VOIP systems.  • Installed and managed 400TB Dell Compellent Storage Center to Disaster Recovery location.  • Disassembled and reassembled entire data center for the relocation of IAS headquarters.  • Decommissioned Microsoft Exchange 2010 and upgraded to Exchange 2016.  • Upgraded OS of Core switches and setup HPE Intelligent Management Center.  • Setup Microsoft Office 365 two factor authentication to improve overall network security.  • Setup Vipre Endpoint Security Server and deployed anti-malware agent to all network computers.  • Setup Microsoft Distributed File System (DFS) Replication for two remote file servers.  • Microsoft Exchange 2010 to Office 365 email migration project.  • Setup additional security network deterrence's to help discourage malicious activity. IT Systems Administrator Texas Parks and Wildlife - Austin, TX September 2016 to February 2017 Provided Account Management Support to 2000+ End Users utilizing Active Directory such as Creating Accounts, Allowing Permissions, Group Policies, Local Policies, and File Shares.  • Added new DNS and DHCP entries to allow the correct network access to systems.  • Provided Administrative Account Management for all in the cloud Office 365 applications.  • Setup and configured Office 365 Message Encryption and trained users how to use the service.  • Assesses and identified new solutions to be integrated into the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department  (TPWD) server operation and made recommendations for implementation.  • Responsibilities included planning and managing application/OS upgrades, performance tuning,  problem resolution, storage administration, security administration, capacity planning, policy  administration, change management, disaster recovery, backup planning and systems analysis.  • Created new scripts to stream line the termination and activation of Active directory user accounts. IT Security consultant Threewire Systems - Austin, TX February 2016 to September 2016 • Worked directly with head of IA to develop and implement security protocols and procedures, including methods to confirm compliance that meet industry standard guidance NIST/FIPS/DISA  • Purchase, implement, and administer Tenable Nessus vulnerability scanner and other DoD-approved vulnerability scanning systems   • Analyze existing procedures to locate and mitigate security weaknesses and vulnerabilities, in all aspects of IT, from software to "company habits"  • Work with three other top-level engineers to ensure the uptime of two geographically disparate  company-owned server rooms, as well as servers for which we are responsible that reside within DISA  • Responsible for applying DoD STIGs, to new machines, and to continually check compliance of existing machines, over four different government contracts, over three different VPNs  • Directly interface with government civilians to update on status of projects  • Administer monitoring tool, engage tool to produce uptime reports  • Responsible for monitoring and proposing opportunities for continual service improvement IT Systems Administrator United States Antarctic Program - GHG South Pole Station October 2014 to December 2015 • Checked daily backup jobs for both VEEAM and Backup Exec.  • Checked Health status of all VM's in VMware vSphere.  • Performed daily checks of the physical servers for any hardware failures in the Datacenter.  • Setup and update new/old entries in DHCP and DNS.  • Provided support to helpdesk and desktop support specialists.  • Provided weekly SITREP's to management.  • Installed monthly Microsoft security patches for Windows Server 2003/2008/2012.  • Setup move transfers of User Mailboxes in Exchange 2010 between sites.  • Completed the Exchange 2003 to Exchange 2010 email migration.  • Reallocated all share drives for better performances and more free space.  • Created Apple software update server for the South Pole Station.  • Created Weather data script to update the public South Pole website.  • Created new baseline images and outline process documentation for user workstations. IT Systems Administrator Southwest Research Institute - San Antonio, TX August 2013 to October 2014 • Implemented new software, which provided new and exciting capabilities for SWRI Division 18.  • Managed daily server backups and monthly tape archives with CA ARCserve Backup.  • Installed, configured, and maintained out of the box Dell PowerEdge R720 servers.  • Installed and setup additional SAN cluster storage devices which provided additional 120TBs.  • Provided troubleshooting for complex and difficult Linux/Unix software with successful results.  • Approved, added and managed new users and computer accounts in Active Directory.  • Added new DNS and DHCP entries to allow network access to static IP assigned systems.  • Configured new installations of Windows Server 2012, 2008 and SLES 11 SP3.  • Installed and administered Apache, IIS, Joomla, MySQL, Webdav, SVN, PWD and Bugzilla.  • Setup remote deployments of new software, operating systems, and windows security updates via System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM). And supported Azure Cloud development.  • Installed new Microsoft SharePoint 2013 Foundation VM and helped users setup their Department site. ADPE Technician (Desktop Support Tech) ITT Exelis Systems corp March 2012 to July 2013 Installed, configured, and maintained DOD-approved communications software on government  computers and configure the network to allow proper user access.  • Installed and configured network printers.  • Responsible for both classified and unclassified computer system stability through the use of DOD- approved, Government-furnished operating systems and software.  • Join client computers to a Microsoft Active Directory domain.  • Configure Microsoft outlook and manage personal folders in all versions of outlook.  • Installed, configured, and maintained security software on military computer systems.  • Named and Created computer named and organization units in active directory.  • Set SCCM to baseline new and used computers. Windows Systems Administrator Defense Information Systems Agency - ICS inc - San Antonio, TX August 2011 to March 2012 • Provided Windows Administration for the Defense Information Systems Agency.  • Managed a pool of 80+ Windows XP, 2003/2008 Servers to include Builds, Installations, Upgrades and Maintenance in both Hardware and Software.  • Experienced and certified with the DoD Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation Process  (DIACAP) and Information Assurance vulnerability alerts (IAVA's).  • Communicated with Tier III support to successfully resolve System and Network Security Issues.  • Granted and removed user security access on an as needed basis with authorization from IA Security and the Contract Security Manager.  • Applied patches and lock down procedures according to the Security Technical Implementation Guides.  (STIG)  • Assisted Customers/Developers by troubleshooting issues that required administrator support such as allowing access to (AHLTA) Healthcare Application.  • Scheduled Conference calls with Customers/Developers to discuss and implement needs for Applications, Websites, and Internet Access.  • Provided Account Management Support to 250+ End Users utilizing Active Directory such as Creating  Accounts, Allowing Permissions, Group Policies, Local Policies, and File Shares.  • Provided Back-up Support for all Servers.  • Utilized Remedy Ticketing System for Tracking, Documentation, and Resolution for Technical and Server Issues.  • Provided Provisioning and De-provisioning of User Accounts to maintain DISA Security Policy. IT Administrator USAMITC - Goldbelt Raven - San Antonio, TX August 2010 to August 2011 • Provided Technical Support for the United States Army at Fort Sam Houston in a Windows Server  2003/2008 Environment.  • Responsible for Installation of Software, Active Directory troubleshooting, Internet Explorer  troubleshooting, Computer and Printer Maintenance.  • Resolved and Organized tickets that customers submit online.  • Handled Remote Access, Software Support and Maintenance through Windows 2003/2008 server.  • Provided Admin IT support to doctors, nurses, and medical staff with the highest level of professional  customer care.  • Provided Support to Army Medical Staff for Applications such as AHLTA, CHCS, Essentris, Microsoft  Outlook, VOIP, Credant, AirFortress, Juniper/Pulse VPN Client, etc.  • Utilized Remedy Ticketing System for Tracking, Documentation, and Resolution for Technical and Server Issues.  • Utilized Active Directory to Administer and Create Accounts and assist in Password Resets.  • Installed and uninstalled Lotus notes remotely for customers.  • Provided troubleshooting for Lotus note errors remotely with professional care. IT-Service Analyst Tier II USAA Bank- Sapphire Technologies - San Antonio, TX February 2008 to August 2010 • Provided advanced Tier II helpdesk administrative support to all internal USAA reps.  • Received Multiple Pride Awards from USAA Representatives for outstanding work.  • Processed tickets for each inbound call with Professional Customer Care.  • Contributed to a major project that allows users to submit their own tickets online. Education Bachelor's degree in Information Systems Security in Information Systems Security ITT Technical Institute - San Antonio, TX 2011 Associate degree in Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems ITT Technical Institute - San Antonio, TX 2009 Skills Information Security, Cyber Security, Nessus, Mcafee, CCTV, Network Security, It Security, PCI, Access Control Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ CompTIA A+ CompTIA Network+ Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) Microsoft Certified Solutions Associate Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH) MCSA Additional Information PROFESSIONAL/TECHNICAL SKILLS:    • Operating Systems: Windows 7, Window 8, Windows 10, SUSE, RedHat, CentOS, Windows Server  2003, Server 2008, Server 2012 and Server 2016.  • Software and Equipment experience: Office 365, SCCM, SCOM, Norton Ghost, MS Office Pro,  VB.Net, Outlook, PureEdge, AHLTA, CHCS, Essentris, ApproveIt, Notepad++, Active Gold card  Client, Nuance, WinSCP, SecureCRT, Adobe Professional, Tumbleweed, Lync, Credant, AirFortress,  Juniper/Pulse VPN Client, Norton/McAffee Antivirus, EPO agent, Gold Disk, Retina, BladeLogic  Automation Suite Manger, WSUS, Hyper-V manager, VMware ESXi vSphere client, Lotus Notes,  Retina Network Security Scanner, Nessus Vulnerability Scanner, WhatsUp Gold, SQL server  management studio, Robocopy, Shadow copy, Distributed File System, Remote Desktop Services,  PowerShell, SharePoint 2013 Foundation, Symantec Veritas NetBackup, CA ARCserver Backup,  SANtricity Storage Manager, IIS, Group Policy Management, DNS, DHCP, Event viewer, Exchange  management console, Failover Cluster Manager, Active Directory, LogRhythm, SolorWinds Orion,  Fuze, InContact, 8x8, Exchange 2016, Dell Openmanage Server Administrator and iDRAC.  • Remote utilities: Windows Remote Assistance, Remote desktop Manager, DameWare Bomgar  • Ticket Applications: Samanage, Infra Enterprise, SalesForce, BMC Remedy Action Request System and  SCSM.  • Strong Communication Skills, read, write, and can speak Spanish fluently  • Strong desire to learn and work with multiple applications, tools and technologies  • Experience in successfully troubleshooting software and hardware problems  • Strong work ethic, attention to detail, and drive to be successful; ability to work independently with  minimal supervision or assistance.  • Demonstrated ability to gain customer trust and provide exceptional customer service, leading to  increased referral business.  • Talent for identifying customer needs and presenting appropriate company product and service  offerings.