Technical Solution Analyst Technical Solution <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Kansas City, MO Motivated and dedicated professional with expertise in technical support and configuration of applications. Proven track record of success in project management and client relations. Creative, tech-savvy and detail oriented candidate with proficiency in following policies and procedures. Skilled and collaborative team leader with experience in coordinating, planning and supporting daily operations. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Technical Solution Analyst Cerner Corporation - Kansas City, MO March 2017 to Present •Conduct dozens of conference calls with clients for consulting purposes as well as troubleshooting Cerner solutions across the org.  •Create clinical software documentation and other knowledge articles catered to individual clients to assist them in build, functionality, and/or workflow.  •Perform troubleshooting investigations via backend methods by capturing log files, querying tables, updating database fields, and updating/cycling servers.  •Frequently conduct on average 84 "break/fixes" a month in live hospital domains in order to resolve urgent issues.  •Collaborate among and across teams to ensure issues are addressed by the appropriate individuals. MIS Intern Dassault Falcon Jet - Little Rock, AR June 2015 to August 2016 •Worked on an interactive map of the facility using HTML, JavaScript, and Adobe Photoshop to show switches and routers within the facility.  •Created an ISO document for configuration of multi-functional printers within the DFJ Little Rock facility.  •Serviced over 1200 computers on the facility both remotely and on-site.  •Built over 40 workstations during one summer internship. IT Security Administration Intern University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences - Little Rock, AR November 2015 to February 2016 •Created and modified Electronic Health Records using the EPIC software.  •Prepared paperwork for state regulation requirements.  •Documented control for regulatory compliance (HIPAA, FERPA, & PCI DSS).  •Took help desk calls made to the UAMS IT Security department, assisting callers and successfully providing solutions to all inquiries. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Science University of Arkansas at Little Rock - Little Rock, AR January 2014 to December 2016 Skills Microsoft Office (10+ years), Technical Writing (4 years), Cerner (1 year), Epic (Less than 1 year), Remedy (1 year), PuTTY (2 years), SQL (4 years), CCL (Cerner Command Language) (1 year), HTML (3 years), Java (3 years), Numara Service Desk Software (1 year), Windows (10+ years), Mac OS X (6 years), Troubleshooting (6 years), Microsoft Remote Desktop (3 years), Adobe Dreamweaver (1 year) Additional Information Skills    Technical Support, Staff Development, Regulatory Guidelines, Deadline-Oriented, Client Relations, Record Maintenance, Productivity, Conflict Resolution, Account Management, Reports/Documentation, Process Improvment, Stragetic Planning.