IT Support Engineer - Team Soft Solution <span class="hl">IT</span> Support Engineer - Team Soft Solution IT Support Engineer - Team Soft Solution - SaaS Las Vegas, NV Work Experience IT Support Engineer - Team Soft Solution SaaS October 2017 to Present Providing technical support to clients by troubleshooting, performing inquiries, triage and diagnosing software issues in a professional manner via phone, email and remote computer sessions. Log calls accurately and close tickets following established processes and procedures. Handle multiple tasks, adapt to technical knowledge level of the customer. Achieve productivity and satisfaction goals targeted by organization. Develop product knowledge base. Assist IT Professionals installing Software to IIS and SQL Server and assist executing SQL queries. IT Support Specialist-CONTRACT Aliante Resort & Casino April 2017 to August 2017 Provided support for all software and hardware in all systems platform. Used ticketing system to track and close tickets. Performed all duties in a manner that ensures the IT Department maintains compliance with all regulatory requirements. Ensured all support calls and service requests are handled or escalated in a timely manner. Security Infrastructure Admin Symantec Corporation May 2007 to December 2016 VIRTUAL/Veritas Technologies LLC (A Division of Symantec Corporation)  10/2015-12/2016  Received data from client to ingest in the archive. Moved large data extractions from the Enterprise Vault cloud via remote desktop from NAS Servers using PowerShell scripts. Transferred data securely by means of Secure File Transfer Protocol using FileZilla and Total Commander.  Copied data from Enterprise Vault cloud to different media storage devices such as hard drive, USB, and DVD and shipped to client as requested.  Managed multiple data migration projects while ensuring that customers are kept up-to-date.  Monitored systems and took proper action to remediate any congestion or failures during the ingestion process. Senior Support Engineer (Tier3) Symantec Corporation January 2012 to October 2015 Handled escalated calls and performed troubleshooting for issues with the Microsoft Exchange Server for external IT personnel from major companies in financial services and other industries. Served as escalations specialist in client services. Researched issues to resolve complaints, answer inquiries, and outline resolutions. Managed base level IT support to clients. Resolved client complaints and concerns via remote connection. Led a team of seven support personnel. Trained new hires and provided ongoing coaching to improve performance. Worked directly with the Engineering and Operations team in resolving Network issues. Implemented new clients, set-up account. Provided internal support to peers.  Trained support analysts on processes and procedures, and trained new employees on products and protocols. Responsible for 24/7 on call duties, rotating every 4 weeks. Demonstrated extensive product knowledge; served as a resource for others in the department. Performed assigned projects and tasks that needs to meet deadline. Troubleshooted Hosted Exchange journaling issues (archiving to the cloud).  Analyzed email headers and server logs, email connection in Outlook and OWA. Lead Technical Support Live Office, LLC May 2007 to January 2012 Turned client around from cancelling their subscription and kept them as one of the largest revenue the company has. Received multiple compliments from clients. Managed scheduling of the support team, and hold times of calls. Trained new hire and cross trained the support team. Took Supervisor call and escalated calls from Tier 1/Tier 2. Assisted clients in setting up email (Exchange, IMAP, SMTP, POP, Outlook, Windows Mail, Goldmine, Thunderbird, Mac Mail, Entourage, iPhone, Android, other mobile phones). Updated data through Sales Force CRM. Engaged operations or engineering teams to assist in resolutions as needed. Responsible for 24/7 on call duties, rotating every 4 weeks. Assisted management with scheduling, service protocol improvements, and quality assurance by testing for bugs prior to release dates. Achieved consistent #1 ranking in monthly metrics including call duration, number of calls, cases closed, and client satisfaction ratings. SR SUPPORT ENGINEER/PCMALL SERVICES Software and Hardware February 2000 to February 2007 Provided pre-sale compatibility, post-sale troubleshooting, installed and configured hardware and software for business, personal and small network systems. Extended support to end user worldwide with their technical issues and difficulties as well to internal user with their workstations. Diagnosed and confirmed defective hardware, software and approved issuance of RMA (Returned Merchandise Authorization) for replacements or refunds. Researched various components and systems for compatibility and eliminate troublesome issues as they concern the end user. Installed and configured software, hardware components and other peripheral. Resolved customer problems regarding their orders. Ensure that all issues and concerns are resolved, follow up with customers. Improved customer satisfaction by making sure the equipment, peripheral or software they purchases works properly. SYSTEMS SOFTWARE ANALYST CCH, INC August 1998 to February 2000 Tested software (Quality Assurance) for bugs before release. Wrote test cases, created bug reports, executed and track testing assignments. Suggested and carried out changes found in the Beta Software. Provided cross functional team training, coaching and mentoring. Provided end users with technical support via telephone. Extended customer relationship development and other fulfillment. Answered ACD calls. Provided a walk through installation process, user interface and printing concerns. Utilized CRM (HEAT, Lotus Notes). Education Bachelor's in Psychology FEU/AMEC - Manila Skills MAC, Help Desk, Service Desk, Desktop Support, Active Directory