Real Estate Investment Analyst Real Estate Investment <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Real Estate Investment Analyst - CSSM LLC Seabrook, TX Real Estate Analyst known for strong analytical and project management skills. Exceptional at working in the field communicating with real estate agents, inspectors, contractors, local government agencies, and clients. Easily adapts to and incorporates new technologies to improve productivity. Work Experience Real Estate Investment Analyst CSSM LLC - Baton Rouge, LA 2013 to Present Market Analysis, Acquisition, Renovation, Sales, Property Management (2013 - Present)  Identify residential investment opportunities using market data, after repair values, projected renovation costs, and local market knowledge to maximize return on investment.  • Analyze market data trends, property tax records, and sales history data to identify undervalued properties.  • Inspect homes to inventory necessary repairs and prepare labor and material cost estimates.  • Prepare cash flow analysis and assess market risks.  • Supervise property management operations to provide property maintenance, site inspections, and resolve tenant issues.  • Negotiate contracts, set budgets, and scheduled contractors to maximize financial outcomes.  • Research and acquire undervalued distressed homes in foreclosure or pre-foreclosure status, and renovate them for rental income or market them for resale. Identity and Access Analyst - IT Services LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY - Baton Rouge, LA 2011 to 2018 Oversee day-to-day Identity and Access Management operations. Set strategic goals to reduce institutional risk and enhance the customer user experience. Conduct identity and access compliance reviews to ensure that policies and standards are adhered to by all stakeholders. Perform quality assurance testing to identify process vulnerabilities.  • Led team that accomplished 0% unauthorized access to Identity and Access Management data over a 7 year period.  • Provided Level 3 Identity and Access Management support and continuing education to Level 1 and 2 teams.  • Successfully identified account life cycle process improvements that reduced institutional risk, enhanced the user experience, and maximized resources resulting in 30% efficiency gains.  • Identified deficiencies related to cross-functional processes averting loss data integrity and the duplication of data.  • Developed and implemented Best Practices for the Affiliate account lifecycles. Workday Security Analyst LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY 2016 to 2017 Workday HCM Security support. Developed and maintained user security groups to meet system integrity and segregation of duties requirements. Work with functional teams to design and implement security configurations. Support existing security configurations including providing routine security administration and troubleshooting security related issues.  • Advised on Governance and Policy issues that pertain to the Identity Management processes for the Workday implementation.  • Provided daily support and issue resolution for key decision makers and stakeholders.  • Conducted audits to verify Workday Security Group assignments to ensure best practices and procedures were maintained. Business Analyst 2005 to 2011 Partnered with campus-wide business stake holders to evaluate technological alternatives and participate in strategic vision. Gathered business requirements and translated requirements into best practice solutions for application development. Cultivated multi- departmental synergies to reduce application development costs   • Engaged with primary stake holders to gather requirements and business rules to ensure alignment with software application development goals.  • Evaluated risks related to requirements implementation and use case testing procedures.  • Facilitated monthly stake holder meetings to develop long term goals and strategies.  • Lead agile programming development team to address the application maintenance log.  • Established performance metrics to monitor application performance and identify areas of improvement.  • Managed a team of IT Developers, both in-house and third-party, that successfully migrated mainframe legacy systems and disparate systems to cloud based solutions. Web Application Development Consultant 1997 to 2005 Led a team of 6 developers that successfully produced Web Applications for the Campus Community. Member of cross functional team that implemented Google Search engine. Utilized Google Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques to improve search results. Optimized Web Graphics to increase download performance. Designed the first web presence for the University.  • Successfully standardized web application development procedures reducing the 16 week application development cycle to a four-week turnkey process.  • Lead the Design team for the University Portal that consolidated all University Online Application Services for Students,  Faculty, and Staff into one central portal.  • Successfully initiated, developed, and implemented a first of its kind University WebCam Experience showing life on campus resulting in national exposure for the University.  • Project Lead for the Campus-wide webcam Surveillance System that assists LSUPD with digital surveillance of University events, crowd, and traffic management. Graphic and Web Designer 1991 to 1998 Lead graphic and web designer that assisted the application development team with user interface design, multimedia creation, and user experience design.  • Provided strategic leadership and partnered with campus-wide stakeholders to improve web presence.  • Developed user interface templates and guidelines utilized by application developers to standardize the user experience.  • Designed and implemented branding and guidelines for all marketing materials.  • Developed campus-wide multimedia informational kiosks to distribute promote computing initiatives. Education BFA in Graphic Design and Web Development School of Design, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge Skills BI (Less than 1 year), BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE (Less than 1 year), ITIL (Less than 1 year), user interface (7 years), Workday (1 year), Management, Microsoft Office, database, Data Entry, Powerpoint Additional Information Skills and training: MS Office, Business Process Mapping, ITIL,  User Interface and Experience Design, Workday Portal, SAS BI Portal