Cybersecurity and Compliance Engineer Cybersecurity and Compliance Engineer Cybersecurity and Compliance Engineer - 1st Source Bank Fort Wayne, IN SAP Security GRC Architect with 20 years development and implementation experience delivering solutions for organizations  with highly complex regulatory compliance needs and operational structures in industries such as Aerospace and Defense,  Biopharmaceutical, Chemical Manufacturing, and Railroad (Class 1). My goal is to develop a flexible and scalable enterprise  SAP Cybersecurity architecture supported by programs and frameworks with compliant controls so companies can achieve  Information Security and Cybersecurity goals that comply with regulatory requirements. Work Experience Cybersecurity and Compliance Engineer 1st Source Bank - South Bend, IN July 2018 to Present Establishing IT control procedures and risk management initiatives at a regionally managed $7B Bank in Northern Indiana / Southern Michigan for a highly complex multi-platform IT environment.  Providing oversight of Information Security governance program leveraging NIST 800(53) framework. Authoring  Information Security policy and program material for Board of Directors review and approval. Maturing corporate roadmap  for risk management, Cyber, and Information Security initiatives as co-chair of the Information Security Committee, a sub- committee to the Board of Directors, to achieve business operational and compliance objectives. Producing Information  Security Program content for quarterly Board of Directors meeting. Crafting and communicating the GRC roadmap and vision. Establishing IT RCM, PoAM, Risk Register, regulatory compliance catalogue with crosswalk against numerous  industry regulatory control frameworks (e.g., FTC, SEC, FFIEC, PCI, SOX, HIPAA, SEC, and GLBA). Conducting  compliance gap analysis on vendor-managed systems, performing review of IT vendor service contract and vendor SOC  reports. Implementing RSA Archer tool to automate GRC processes. Serving as IT liaison for Fed (Federal Reserve Bank), PCI, and Internal Audit exams. Overseeing enterprise Information Security Awareness Program. IT Risk Lead Baker Tilly Virchow Krause - Chicago, IL April 2016 to April 2018 Performed Cybersecurity and regulatory risk assessments, readiness reviews, and audits  for clients leveraging the SAP enterprise platform. Prepared executive reports and presentations from control performer to Board of Director level for client engagements. Developed prioritized approach for adjudication of critical and high security  vulnerabilities and control gaps. Wrote client proposals and reviewed potential client contracts. Developed program to monitor, risk-rate, and review service organization control (SOC II Type II) reports for 3rd party IT vendors. Established  implementation roadmaps for virtual-CISO engagements using NIST 800(53) and ISO 27001/27002 Cybersecurity  frameworks. Proposed SAP Cybersecurity compliance services supporting the RIAC Midwest region playbook. Received  healthcare industry HITRUST CSF Certification. SAP Cybersecurity Manager BNSF - Fort Worth, TX November 2012 to April 2016 Reduced 100% technical reliance on contractors by fully staffing an experienced and motivated SAP Security team in under 2 years, closed a technical knowledge gap and eliminated a high Security risk for  BNSF executive leadership. Managed team of 25 with offshore and onsite resources, and budget of $1.5M. Established  vision and strategic objectives for the SAP Security and Controls department in alignment with CIO 2020 SAP Roadmap and IT initiatives. Served as technical lead for GRC Process and Access Control 10.1/NW740 implementation. Served as  technical lead for SAP HANA S4 upgrade from SAP ECC 6.0 preserving security role structure, architecture, and controls.  Served as technical security lead in configuration and business-case testing for the implementation of FIORI's Simple  Procurement and Simple Logistics FIORI portal apps. Provided recommendations for hardening SAP Security for application, OS, database. Defined SAP Security control self-audit procedures using COBIT and SOX frameworks.  Delivered a new set of SAP Key SOX audit control measures for major business process areas such as Accounts Payable, Accounting, Financial Reporting, Corporate Procurement, Vendor and Material Master Data, Bank and Treasury Systems,  Inventory Management, and IT, reducing overall SAP audit deficiencies by 90% in under 2 years and achieving an 'Effective  Controls' rating by the external audit agency in 2014, a first in the history of the BNSF SAP SOX program.  2 SAP Security Manager Raytheon - Tucson, AZ December 2007 to December 2012 Managed SAP Security team of 10 architects and administrators providing project management, configuration, testing, change control, audit, and production support SAP Security activities for Raytheon enterprise  operations. Redesigned key manual SAP Security processes resulting in ¼ FTE labor hours/year cost savings for Raytheon and increased productivity. Utilized industry expertise and knowledge to lead the Raytheon Competency Center SAP  Security Upgrade from 4.7x to ECC 6.0. Identified and escalated an ECC 6.0 technical core system issue resulting in SAP  repackaging and releasing a new version of ECC 6.0 EhP 4. Trained SAP Security personnel in ECC 6.0 SAP Security tools.  Implemented the SAP Security architecture for all foreign and domestic Raytheon business units. Organized and deployed  multiple SAP Security implementation projects simultaneously ensuring all projects were delivered on time for Raytheon.  Conveyed SAP Security resource needs and technical requirements to executive leadership on all Raytheon Competency  Center project implementations and deployments ensuring more precise IT funding requests. Global SAP Security Architect Eli Lilly and Company - Indianapolis, IN April 2004 to December 2007 Expert level proficiency with all SAP Security, controls and monitoring tools such as PFCG, SE93, SU24, SU25, SUIM, SU53, and SU01 through more than 30 unique and separate implementations globally.  Gathered LOB security requirements, translated business transactions and requirements into functional and technical  specifications. Obtained Global Director sign-off for all technical design features ahead of schedule for each major  implementation cycle. Developed SAP Security training material and led training sessions for each foreign affiliate SAP  Security Steward to support and maintain the production SAP Security requests while keeping the design intact post go-live.  Worked with internal compliance and audit teams to capture SOD requirements and constructed all SAP roles without inherent SOD issues through use of the VIRSA tool, and ensured all roles complied with SOX, OSHA, and cGMP regulatory  requirements. Reduced post go-live maintenance costs be solving complex security design issues with workflow and configuration instead of additional customization in SAP modules such as APO 4.0/5.0, IM, QM, WM, AOP, EHS, MM,  MO, IM, WM, PM, and PP. Managed multiple implementation projects simultaneously, created test accounts and assisted with automated and manual positive and negative unit, integration, and UAT testing using Mercury Test Director and SAP  CATT tool. Developed SOP, SOD, SOX, and Change Management control matrix with crosswalk of regulatory controls for  compliance purposes. Provided global SME guidance for domestic and offshore SCM Security team. Provided SME  knowledge as core-team member of Eli Lilly Six-Sigma black-belt project resulting in business operational savings of over  185k per year. Served as Team Lead and trained others in SAP Security principals. Senior IT Auditor Charter One Bank - Cleveland, OH August 2003 to February 2004 Developed IT audit strategies and IT audit programs for assessing company compliance stance with government regulatory requirements for GLBA and Sarbanes-Oxley through IT controls' testing and IT risk assessment  validation. Developed work plans and project approaches necessary in analyzing multi-platform systems and provided  detailed reports on the vulnerabilities to the client. Performed analytical steps aimed at validating manual and systemic  controls of the client's IT operations. Provided industry best-practice recommendations necessary for regulatory compliance. Senior SAP HR Security Specialist OfficeMax, Inc - Cleveland, OH September 2002 to August 2003 Managed SAP system security configuration for the HR, MSS/ESS, BW-HR and TE  modules. Configured and implemented PD and PA sub-module security role authorization structures. Developed and administered HR ABAP Query system for various business units. Recommended web-based information system solutions to  optimize business productivity for business units. Maintained complex federal regulatory compliance of customer, PCI the company. Generated executive management report presented to the OfficeMax, Inc. Board of Directors. Guided the IT team in resolving Corporate Sales Division business needs by implementing SAP Structural Authorizations. Information Security Analyst Deloitte & Touché - Nashville, TN May 2000 to June 2002 Nashville, TN 5/00 - 6/02  Client Service and Information Technology Information Security National Office  Information Security Analyst: Configured and managed the internal Deloitte SAP security architecture. Monitored SAP  environment for threats of unauthorized attempts to access SAP, unauthorized critical SAP transactions, critical business  data, and vital dialog processes. Performed security analysis of SAP, external applications, and web-based applications for any security risks. Authored SAP Security policies and performed self-audit reviews for all SAP Security control processes to  ensure compliance with regulatory and corporate Information Security standards. Supported multiple new SAP module  implementations by analyzing business problems and providing SAP Security configuration solutions.  3 Senior Consultant PricewaterhouseCoopers - Nashville, TN May 1998 to May 2000 Utilized PwC risk-based methodology in determining and quantifying risk factors and security threats to SAP systems and IT business processes. Performed SAP Security role redesign and implemented SAP Security designs for  clients such as:  • Compaq Computer Corporation, Houston, TX - (Computer Manufacturer)  • Noble Drilling Corporation, Houston, TX - (Global Deep Sea Off-Shore Drilling Company)  • Nalco Chemical Company, Chicago, IL - (Petro-chemical/Waste Water Treatments Manufacturer)  • Maxtor Corporation, St. Louis, MS - (Hard Drive/Computer Data Storage Manufacturer)  • Ralston Purina/Energizer Battery, Asheboro, NC - (Energy Cell Manufacturer)  • Tractor Supply Company, Nashville, TN - (National Heavy-Equipment Farming Retailer)  Authored SAP Security Audit Matrix, which became a standard practice aid, SAP Security business process controls work  plans and practice aids used by the Operational and Systems Risk Management Practice to effectively and efficiently identify  security control risks and compliance gaps for SAP Security. Produced executive dashboards for all final client engagement  meetings. Consistently exceeded expectations by managing client projects independently, remaining over 100% chargeable to client engagements, delivering projects on-time, and creating SAP security control audit work plans unique to each client's  infrastructure and regulatory compliance needs. Generated detailed work papers according to PCAOB and COBIT standards  that incorporated information flow diagrams, security system risk heat maps, and IT process control gaps. Chemical Engineer Clark Corporation - Owensboro, KY October 1994 to August 1997 Utilized engineer process and instrumentation drawings to quantify recycled fiber chemical  consumption analysis used in forecasting and logistics planning. Negotiated bulk chemical supply and delivery contracts to ensure JIT delivery of raw materials.  SAP Lead: Received Configuration Certifications in MM, PM, and PP modules of SAP R/2. Created and led classroom  training for other plant technicians in the use of SAP R/2 MM, PP, PM for their business work processes. Was able to learn the Security/Basis component and how to build, generate and assign Security profiles so end users could access the system.  Instructor-led training focused on SAP configuration, basic workflow and SAP master data design. Education BS in Chemistry Western Kentucky University