Owner/Operator Owner/Operator Truck Driver Stockbridge, GA Work Experience Owner/Operator ODKEXPRESS,LLC - Stockbridge, GA May 2019 to Present Transportation of freight of all kinds for a dedicated account. OTR Driver Stevens Transport - Dallas, TX May 2018 to Present Transport freight of all kinds throughout the USA. Self Employed Upscale Shoes - Morrow, GA March 2017 to April 2018 Owner operator local shoe store. IT Technician Lifestream Behavioral Center - Leesburg, FL September 2016 to March 2017 Responsible for 24/7 multi-agency coverage working on-call responses and recovering failed hardware systems and applications for case workers and case managers.  • Migrated 84 employee's hardware to new facilities to increase effectiveness and information sharing.  • Resolved Tier 1, 2, and 3 computer hardware and software related issues.  • Configured and issued all employee's mobile phones with secure technology, payroll, and email applications.  • Installed and configured Avaya IP office. Security Specialist L3 Communications NSS - MacDill AFB, FL May 2015 to March 2016 Responsible for all foreigner's visiting facility are following all security regulations. Additionally, assist in monitoring background information for all DOD personnel per DOD policies and directives.  • Utilized computer equipment to effectively maintain sensitive and critical records.  • Comprehended and interpreted instructions to successfully handle foreign national program. Security Specialist TSM Corporation - MacDill AFB, FL December 2012 to April 2015 Assisted in the compliance of security within the physical, information, and personnel security programs per DOD policies and directives.  • Utilized computer equipment to effectively maintain sensitive and critical records.  • Comprehended and interpreted instructions to successfully handle foreign national program.  • Collaborated with other departments to develop and maintain data, increasing efficiency by 50% Information Systems Technician Lead Naval Air Station Jacksonville - Jacksonville, FL March 2010 to September 2012 Supervises six-member team in enforcing security standards and policies for military, civilian, and contractor personnel with 100% accountability.  • Designed and maintains an access database for tracking personnel security investigations for more than 1,460 personnel.  • Effectively migrated more than 20,000 unclassified messages to a newer web-based messaging system with a 0% error rate.  • Developed critical standard operating procedures for analyzing and evaluating classified equipment, significantly reducing downtime. IT Specialist Lead Camp Lemonier - Djibouti, DJ August 2008 to February 2010 Managed and led a team of 34 military, civilian, and contractor personnel in the daily oversight of 83 network servers and 1,800 network assets for 3 separate networks.  • Planned, organized, and directed the addition of 10 new television channels to the Armed Forces Network (AFN) greatly helping increase morale of forward deployed personnel.  • Recorded, documented, and tracked daily, weekly, and monthly reports in support of C4I.  • Organized and directed 24x7 operations supporting critical mission initiatives resulting in minimal downtime for support equipment.  • Recognized for volunteering off duty hours to help African students learn to speak and write English. System Analyst Space and Naval Warfare System Center - Norfolk, VA May 2005 to July 2008 Provided support and maintained the command networks, software, databases and equipment.  • Effectively maintained 200 workstations and 8 servers.  • Resolved more than 800 hardware and software trouble calls.  • Spearheaded registration of 600 users, 1,000 accounts, 249 applications, and 120 hardware devices for critical tasking order.  • Used strong professional knowledge and keen judgment to assist command in delivering and sustaining business IT solutions.  • Successfully completed more than 200 video teleconferencing (VTC) connections for supervisors. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology University of Phoenix - Phoenix, AZ November 2016 to August 2019 Associates of Arts in Liberal Arts Saint Leo University - San Antonio, FL March 2005 to March 2008 Skills It Specialist, Desktop Support, Help Desk, Information Technology, Truck Driver (Less than 1 year), Cdl Driver, OTR, CDL Awards Recognized for volunteering off duty hours to help African students learn to speak and write English Additional Information • More than 20 years of information systems experience  • Effective communication skills both verbally and in writing  • Proficient in active directory, Microsoft, and Exchange server  • Working knowledge of SQL  • Self-motivated and team oriented  • Strong analytical and problem-solving skills