Operational Risk Consultant Operational Risk Consultant Operational Risk Consultant - Wells Fargo Aurora, CO Disciplined security manager and consultant. Decisive, persistent, results-oriented. Solid  analytical, communication and interpersonal skills, creating optimal alignment of security, risk  and business objectives.  Vulnerability management Security assessment Team development  Organizational leadership System integration Policy development Work Experience Operational Risk Consultant Wells Fargo 2016 to Present Currently performing third-party vendor risk assessments following Information Security Risk  Management methods and activities to identify risks and mitigating controls.  • Completion of >200 vendor risk assessments resulting in identification and treatment of third-party cybersecurity risks.  • Specializing in cloud vendor risk assessments and assisting with identification of unknown risks associated with cloud-based systems.  • Contributed to work stream improvement, documenting procedures to ensure  alignment with corporate Third-Party Risk Management and regulatory requirements. Lead Security Analyst Verizon Enterprise Solutions 2011 to 2015 Performed security and risk assessments mapped to ISO 27001, NIST, FFIEC, FINRA, GLBA, PCI- DSS, FedRAMP, HIPAA and other frameworks and requirements. Consulted on security  requirements, controls implementation and remediation of findings, prioritizing "quick wins" for risk reduction.  • Consistent >95% delivery of on-time reports and deliverables. Consistent MRR of >$100k  and customer contract renewals totaling >$1M.  • Successful Security Management Program implementations in large and small  enterprises.  • Panelist, "Untangling your Network Needs: Wireless Security for Conference Vendors  and Attendees".  • Managed a nine-month project to implement enterprise vulnerability management for a global cloud service provider, identifying and classifying >1M assets, addressing  requirements for FedRAMP. Security Manager Colorado Interactive 2010 to 2011 Maintained security for the Colorado.gov website and approximately >70 applications and systems for various state agencies. Defended networks and systems from attacks at various  layers, performed firewall monitoring/tuning, application testing, and log review/analysis.  Performed testing for contingency plan/business continuity and disaster recovery.  • Implemented vulnerability management processes that included continuous scanning, testing and vulnerability remediation.  • Managed risk and compliance with various requirements including PCI-DSS and state  security mandates. Completed PCI SAQ/AoC and provided required documentation to acquirers. IT Security Manager, HIPAA Security Officer University Physicians, Inc 2007 to 2008 Ensured the security of electronic protected health information (e-PHI), PCI, PII and other  sensitive information in a geographically disperse environment of 1200+ employees and physicians throughout Colorado. Focused on achieving and sustaining compliance with the  HIPAA Security Rule requirements, PCI-DSS and SSAE16 control requirements. Managed  response and investigation of incidents involving breach of patient information. Trained  employees on HIPAA security requirements, protection of patient information, cardholder data  security and other security and privacy related matters. Managed third-party Business  Associate vendor agreements. Developed and coordinated disaster recovery/contingency plan  tests. Manager, Security Assessment Team Nexgen Technologies 2005 to 2007 Managed a team of highly technical analysts that performed security assessments of systems  agency General Support Systems and penetration testing major applications to assess risk and compliance with FISMA mandates using NIST guidelines.  • Successfully completed assessments of sites, systems and applications across 14 states  and >100 centers and offices.  • Increased efficiency and improved deliverables by implementing project management  tools, standardized report generation and QA processes. Team Lead, Broadband Security and Abuse Comcast 2000 to 2005 Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems Regis University - Denver, CO Graduate Certificate in Cybersecurity Regis University - Denver, CO Skills Hacking, network, pen testing, scripting, time management, human capital management, team building and leadership (5 years) Certifications/Licenses CISSP August 2006 to September 2019