Security Analyst Intern <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Intern Security Analyst - Avanade Des Moines, WA I'm a cyber- security and forensics BAS graduate from Highline College in Des Moines. I'm currently working as a Security Analyst on a SOC team and am eager to gain more experience and skills in the field. I have a particular interest in digital forensics and would love to work as a forensics examiner someday  Qualifications & Achievements  ? 3 years schooling in Forensics and Cybersecurity  ?BAS in Cybersecurity   ?AAS Forensics and Data Recovery  ? PRCCDC (Pacific Rim Collegiate Cyber Defense Competition) blue team infrastructure development team (2016-2017) Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Security Analyst Intern Avanade - Seattle, WA March 2019 to Present Working on a SOC team doing incident response, malware analysis, data protection, and automation/scripting IT Helpdesk Specialist Highline College IT Helpdesk - Des Moines, WA July 2018 to Present • Assist students and faculty with IT requests over the phone including password resets, account activation, and general troubleshooting.  • Install computers for new or moving faculty  • Image, update, and maintain computers in classrooms and labs as well as check-out laptops and tablets. Delivery Driver MC Delivery - Tacoma, WA April 2016 to Present Pickup and delivery assorted items up to 70lbs. Deliveries made both by van and box truck  ? Customer Service Delivery Driver C&L Catering Distribution - SeaTac, WA April 2015 to February 2016 Food delivery to restaurants and catering companies in Seattle/Tacoma region using a box truck  ? Order picking  ? Receiving Inventory Assistant Manager Lumber Liquidators - Tacoma, WA June 2008 to February 2015 Customer Service & Sales working with a diverse community  ? Management of sales and warehouse team  ? Building relationships with contractors and vendors Meat/Seafood Clerk Safeway - Burien, WA May 2007 to June 2008 Customer Service working with a diverse community  ? Maintaining a clean and organized work environment  ? POG Setup and product rotation Shift Manager McDonalds - Burien, WA March 2005 to May 2007 Customer Service working with a diverse community  ? Management of a night shift crew (drive thru, dine in, and assembly/grill team) Education AAS in Forensics and Cybersecurity BAS Highline Community College - Des Moines, WA March 2016 to Present High School Diploma Kent Mountain View Academy - Kent, WA June 2005 Skills Microsoft Office (3 years), Ticket Support System (Solarwinds) (Less than 1 year), Network Security (3 years), Digital Forensics (3 years), Database Management (1 year) Awards Qualifications & Achievements Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ December 2018 to December 2021 Code: SZQKZG13SHV4QEGE  Verify at: http://verify.CompTIA.org