Gateway Support Representative Gateway Support Representative Experienced Customer Service, Management, and IT Professional Aurora, CO I am a customer service and support professional experienced in both corporate and retail environments. My skill sets include a focus on information technology, attention to detail and quality, operations management, and security. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Gateway Support Representative Elavon - Denver, CO March 2018 to Present • Provide quality customer service, support, and training to Elavon clients by responding to their voice and email inquiries.   • Analyze and resolve problems associated with proprietary applications and operating systems in coordination with internal telephony, system operations, application development, and vendor teams.  • Remain PCI compliant while working with client financial information.   • Adhere to the quality, call control, and time requirements of successfully working in a contact center environment.  • Maintain documentation of all customer contact and problem management activities. IT Support Technician Planetbitrate IT Solutions, L.L.C. - Denver, CO January 2015 to Present • Senior Technician providing IT solutions and multi-device support. My device support experience includes Apple and PC desktop, laptop, notebook, and netbook computers, peripherals, and devices, smart phones, tablets, home theater, and office equipment. Admissions Specialist DaVita - Centennial, CO July 2017 to January 2018 • Respond professionally, promptly, and courteously to inbound calls, e-mails and faxed requests for treatment options in a contact center environment.  • Request placement and/or respond to inquiries regarding treatment options via outbound calls, e-mail, and/or other designated contacts.  • Build positive relationships with Hospitals, Discharge Planners, Case Managers, & DaVita Teammates across the Village and provide customer service excellence.  • Adhere to performance metrics and quality assurance call standards.  • Comply with all HIPAA regulations regarding patient information to assure confidentiality of patient health information (PHI). CenturyLink - CSOC Operations Analyst Securitas - Littleton, CO July 2016 to July 2017 • Provide internal and external customer service to corporate staff, contractors, and technicians.  • Live monitoring and auditing of regional corporate HID access, alarm systems, CCTV video, and security hardware.  • Security event risk mitigation, documentation, and escalation.  • Department training support.  • Adhere to all CenturyLink and Securitas policy and procedure.  • Use of security programs, equipment, and tools. Comcast Cable - Security Account Manager Securitas - Denver, CO July 2015 to July 2016 • Client relations and safety with a focus on internal and external customer service.  • Adherence to and enforcement of Comcast and Securitas policy and procedure.  • Emergency incident response, coordination, support, and mitigation.  • Security Officer supervision, management, scheduling, training, and counseling.  • Incident research and reporting, physical security, CCTV operations, security escorts, site patrol.  • Use of security programs, Microsoft Office, equipment, and tools.  eBay, Inc. - Security Team Lead Security Industry Specialists, Inc. - Centennial, CO July 2011 to July 2015 • Critical Facility Environment.  • Guest and staff customer service and safety, corporate security, physical security.   • Adherence to and enforcement of eBay and SIS policy and procedure.  • Officer training, scheduling, counseling, and management.  • American Heart Association Instructor training, emergency response, site patrol.  • Incident reporting, daily activity report use, radio, and CCTV operations.  • ERT / BET Team member   • Use of security programs, equipment, and tools. UC Health - Healthcare Security Officer AlliedBarton - Aurora, CO October 2012 to April 2013 • Adherence to and enforcement of AlliedBarton and UCH policy and procedure.  • Patient assists / patient watch, emergency response, physical security, site patrol.  • Emergency room security screening, metal detector operation, scanning wand operation.  • AlliedBarton Ambassador program, staff and guest customer service and safety, vehicle assists.   • Master Security Officer trained, Fire Safety Officer trained. Security Supervisor Denver Museum of Nature & Science - Denver, CO April 2007 to April 2011 • Guest and Staff customer service and safety, physical security, loss prevention  • Adherence to and enforcement of Museum policy and procedure.  • Incident mitigation, investigation, documentation, and reporting.  • Officer supervision, training, counseling, and review.  • Radio and CCTV operations, event supervision, missing person locates, security escorts, patrol.  • Red Cross Instructor training, emergency medical response, documentation, and reporting.   • Use of security programs, Microsoft Office, equipment, and tools. Simon - Public Safety Officer Team Lead IPC International - Aurora, CO May 2004 to March 2007 • Guest and Staff customer service and safety, physical security, and loss prevention.   • Adherence to and enforcement of Simon and IPC policy and procedure.   • Foot, vehicle, and Segway patrol, radio and CCTV operations, Tenant assists.  • Incident mitigation, investigation, documentation, and reporting.   • Officer procedure training, patrol vehicle management and record keeping.  • Use of security programs, Microsoft Office, equipment, and tools. Education B.Sc. Program in Network Operations and Security Western Governors University - Salt Lake City, UT 2009 to 2011 A.A.S. Program in Broadcasting Technology and Management City University of New York, KBCC - Brooklyn, NY 1996 to 1999 High School Diploma Abraham Lincoln High School - Brooklyn, NY 1992 to 1996 Skills Quality customer service and interpersonal skills, attention to detail, corporate and retail work environment experience, critical thinking, creativity, security operations, employee supervision, incident resolution and mitigation, Notary Public, Army Veteran Military Service Branch: U.S. Army Service Country: United States Rank: Specialist February 2006 to February 2012 • 13M - Field Artillery  • 92G - Quartermaster Corps  • E-4 / Specialist  • Army Values: Loyalty, Duty, Respect, Selfless Service, Honor, Integrity, Personal Courage. Commendations: US Army - Army Achievement Medal, 2006  US Army Quartermaster School - Distinguished Graduate, 2006 Awards Certificate of Appreciation - White House Communications Agency 2009 Awarded to the Denver Museum of Nature & Science Security Department for support during the Presidential Visit of the Museum. Army Achievement Medal - U.S. Army 2006 National Defense Service Medal - U.S. Army 2006 Global War on Terrorism Service Medal - U.S. Army 2006 Army Service Ribbon - U.S. Army 2006 Employee Commendation Award - IPC International Corp. 2005 Student Participation Award - CUNY, KBCC 1998 Shield Award - Elavon / U.S. Bank 2019-04 Awarded for Customer Service. Shield Award - Elavon / U.S. Bank 2018-07 Awarded for Customer Service. Certifications/Licenses CPR/AED: Adult, Child, Infant + Standard First Aid February 2017 to February 2019 CompTIA Security+ 2011 to 2014 CompTIA Project+ 2010 CompTIA Network+ 2011 to 2014 CompTIA A+ 2010 Microsoft Technology Associate (MTA) 2014 Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) 2014 CIWcertified Web Design Specialist 2014 CIWcertified Web Foundations Associate 2009 Certified Institutional Protection Specialist (CIPS) - IFCPP 2010 to 2013 Certified Protection Officer (CPO) - IFPO 2007 to 2009 Colorado Notary Public January 2009 to January 2021