Cyber Security Specialist/Network Engineer Cyber <span class="hl">Security</span> Specialist/Network Engineer Cyber Security Specialist/Network Engineer - Angstrom Graphics Cuyahoga Falls, OH Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Cyber Security Specialist/Network Engineer Angstrom Graphics - Cleveland, OH February 2019 to Present • Determined security requirements by evaluating business strategies and requirements; researching information security standards.  • Conducted system security and vulnerability analyses and risk assessments; studying architecture/platform; identifying integration issues; preparing cost estimates.  • Upgraded security systems by monitoring security environment; identifying security gaps; evaluating and implementing enhancements.  • Maintained security by monitoring and ensuring compliance to standards, policies, and procedures; conducted incident response analyses; developing and conducting training programs. Business Systems Analyst PNC - Cleveland, OH September 2018 to November 2018 • Coordinated critical applications into production to ensure PNC departments have the correct access for projects and training while ensuring the safety and security of the network.  • Used Microsoft Office including Microsoft Excel, word and Power Point to create reports and presentations for upper management.  • Awarded many customer Service awards for troubleshooting LAN-WAN networks and access controls.  • I cut the SLA time on unresolved and current access issues down from weeks to 1-3 days. IT Security Specialist PNC - Cleveland, OH October 2015 to September 2018 • Secured network infrastructure by implementing firewall and proxy changes daily.  • Worked heavily with several logging systems including HP Arcsight, Tufin SecureTrack, Algosec and syslog servers housed on NixOS (Linux)  • Used firewall and proxy managers to troubleshoot connections to quickly and effectively fix high priority issues to keep operations running smoothly. Network Operations Consultant MCPc - Cleveland, OH July 2014 to October 2015 • Maintained daily Network operational support of Client systems & LAN-WAN network operations by monitoring, analyzing and resolving complex system issues for commercial applications on Windows Server 2003, 2008 and 2012 R2, Citrix, VMware and Veeam.  • Maintained client relationship with outstanding Customer Service.  • Documented, tracked, and monitored all incoming service requests to completion  • Managed Backup and Restore protocols to ensure the most comprehensive and efficient programs were being utilized to ensure security from malicious software allowing the company to accomplish its goals and the network to run problem free.  • Responsible for Technical Support for TCP/IP, Ethernet, 802.x and other LAN/WLAN technologies.  • Used Active Directory to control client access. Net Tech Services Net Tech Services of Ohio - Mentor, OH September 2013 to July 2014 Field Engineer  • Built client relationships by providing quick responses to a variety of business clients resolving any IT related needs; hardware including routers, switches and Wireless access points, software, networking and security.  • Performed remote and on-site resolution at the desktop and server, including installing and upgrading software, installing hardware, managing disaster recovery, and configuring systems and applications.  • Cut downtime for local retail stores saving the store tens of thousands of dollars and safe guarded their reputation by providing preventive maintenance and end-of-life replacement in an efficient manner and timely manner. Network Operations Consultant First Energy - Akron, OH May 2013 to September 2013 Maintained daily Network operational support for the First Energy Telecommunications  network by monitoring, analyzing and resolving complex system issues for commercial applications on Windows Server 2003, 2008 and 2012 R2, Citrix, VMware, Veaam and Linux Servers. Tier I Support Sprint World Headquarters - Overland Park, KS November 2012 to May 2013 Provided technical support for a global telecommunications network, which had over 100,000 customer ports on a Cisco environment with 2,000 routers and switches from 1900 to CRS 15000. Customer ports range from T-lines to OC-768. Security Guard Securitas - Overland Park, KS September 2007 to November 2012 Not IT related Mainframe Operator Embarq World Headquarters - New Century, KS October 2008 to April 2009 • Oversaw the computer mainframe and supporting system equipment, diagnosing and resolving system problems.  • Ensured the processes remain uninterrupted and the program jobs run as scheduled. Program Analysis US Army Reserves - Augusta, GA July 1988 to July 1996 • Performed troubleshooting through diagnostic techniques and pertinent questions determined the best solution based on the issue and details provided by customers.  • Guided clients through the problem-solving process. Installed, operated and performed maintenance Education Bachelor's Degree in Cyber Security ECPI University July 2017 to June 2019 Associates Degree in Liberal Arts Johnson County Community College - Overland Park, KS September 2010 to June 2012 Skills Cyber Security, Nist, Network Security, Comptia, It Security, Linux, Siem, Information Security Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/kathleenfolk Additional Information Manage IT work activities Analysis and reporting  Technical documentation Active Directory  TCP/IP Root Cause Analyst