Enterprise Operation Center Analyst Enterprise Operation Center <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Enterprise Operation Center Analyst - TechnipFMC, Oil and Gas Work Experience Enterprise Operation Center Analyst TechnipFMC, Oil and Gas - Houston, TX May 2019 to Present IT Service Management IT Operation support & Service Delivery    • Use SolarWind tool to maintain and improve responsiveness to an enterprise monitoring environment CIs (servers, switches, routers and appliances).  • Develop, create monitoring dashboards and alerts, develop alert thresholds and validating them with IT and Business owners, Integrates critical alerts with notification platform (Service Now), work with the various supporting team to ensure escalation of critical alerts are addressed in an efficient timely manner.  • Participates in cross-functional teams that contribute to the ITIL processes, standards, methodologies, and IT governance and make recommendations for new metrics, and KPIs.  • Interact with stakeholders to ensure all proactive and reactive aspects of ITSM processes are followed, adhered to, improved, and meets the business expectations.  • Interpret metrics, participate in the development of appropriate actionable plans and, drive desired changes with clearly defined success criteria.  • Maintain major incident management on-call listing within ServiceNow and SendWord Now.  • Provide a command and control presence on technical bridges by driving and participating in a major incident (Skype for business, Teams, WebEx and Zoom).  • Coordinating with various support teams to ensure the actions taken by them leads to quick resolutions and root cause analysis performed.  • Send IT Alerts and internal executive communications to a global audience to provide accurate details of the incident and impacts to the business.  • Ensure IT risk management policies, procedures, and best practices are implemented and adhered to, particularly enterprise request and Incident Management procedures (based on the ITIL standard). ITIL Instructor Lone Star College - Houston, TX August 2018 to Present IT Service Management IT Service Delivery Risk Management  Mentor and manage IT trainings to new and existing Techs/ IT professionals in the areas of:  • Train IT professionals / students on the ITIL Core Management Processes  • Incident & Problem management  • ITIL Core Processes  • Business Risk Management  • Relationship Management  • Business Process Improvement  I ensure students understand and are able to apply ITIL best practices at their work places.  • Accountable for defining procedures and work instructions which support the end-to-end Incident, Problem & other Integration processes and responsible for executing communication and training of the same to all stakeholders. IT Customer Support Specialist Revention POS - Houston, TX July 2018 to January 2019 • Respond to over 300 + customers' calls weekly in areas of:  • Resolve 95.2% of escalations related to SQL Database, Networking and Systems Administration troubleshooting and Support.  • Document new IT system processes/solutions and present to wider technical teams. Use the systems and devices provided, in order to turn around service issues as efficiently as possible.  • Perform credit card change of services (COS), Point of Sales (POS), virtual technician (VT), McAfee antivirus installations and configurations.  • Monitor and support ticket workflows while maintaining the documentation of problems and meeting Service Level Agreement Requirements for calls answered and resolved. Security Technology Support Manager ArikAir Limited January 2013 to June 2018 • Access Policy Manager, Application Security Manager and Local Traffic Administration  • Reviews and approves requests for access to cleared computer systems  • Administering top level NetApp storage system.  • Working knowledge of Windows /Linux systems administration.  • Develop, conduct, coordinate, and deliver site information systems security education program.  • Identifies and documents unique local threats and vulnerabilities to classified information systems security.  • F5 Administration and Alto Firewall administration - Setting Up the BIG-IP System; Using NATs and SNATs to solve Routing Issues with SNAT; Configure Network Time Protocol (NTP) Servers  • Supports company goals of continuous improvement and operational excellence at strategic and tactical levels including reviewing area of responsibility for improvement opportunities to initiate projects or communicate ideas to management as well as active participation on project teams. ArikAir Limited October 2006 to June 2018 IT Systems / Database Administrator ArikAir Limited August 2010 to June 2013 • In-depth understanding and hands-on experience with AZURE, Microsoft Windows Servers, Active Directory, GPOs, Server Services, DNS, DHCP, Microsoft Exchange, Virtualization, Communications (Routers, Firewalls), Printing (Queues, Drivers)  • Monitors and maintains system performance of enterprise servers.  • Provides technical assistance and training in operating systems, MS server maintenance, hardware platforms, network protocols, and vendor or third party utilities to information services.  • Plans, installs, and tests application software in production and test environments.  • Assists in supporting and administrating organization databases, backups and data migration.  • Conducts tests of database changes according to guidelines with High performance computing cluster, storage systems, handle support tickets  • Assists in the migration of databases between environments in accordance with change control procedures IT Helpdesk / Network Administrator ArikAir Limited October 2006 to September 2010 • Fully supporting, configuring, maintaining and upgrading corporate organization and users networks including house servers and using Panorama network security management tool  • Provide support to the IT Service Desk and other IT personnel.  • Highly proficient in the use of MS Word, MS Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook / O365.  • Provide second-level support for all computing issues, with a goal of meeting metrics aligned with IT Customer Services' goals  • Installing and integrating new server hardware and applications and Operating Systems. Education Masters of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology Walden University - Minnesota, MN, US March 2015 to September 2017 University of Lagos March 2008 to September 2010 Masters of Information Technology in Information Technology MIT Bachelors in Computer Science & Education in Computer Science & Education University of Benin Certifications/Licenses ITIL v3 Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH) Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) MCSE MCSA