IT Project Lead <span class="hl">IT</span> Project Lead IT Project Lead - APPLIED CONTROLS AND CONTRACTING SERVICES South Holland, IL Work Experience IT Project Lead APPLIED CONTROLS AND CONTRACTING SERVICES - South Holland, IL November 2016 to Present • Learn and execute all aspects of each project accurately and efficiently.  • Analyze each project and present any analysis to the president of the company.  • Provide a detailed overview of my thoughts, concerns, and solutions for different aspects of the company.  • Prepare and train new employees  • Process employee time sheets for submission to the payroll supervisor.  • Complete various administrative paperwork on daily basis regarding a specific project. Lab Analyst TRIBOLOGIK CORPORATION - Hammond, IN August 2017 to October 2017 • Preparation of oil and fuel samples to be tested.  • Run manual and automatic tests in compliance with ISO 17025 and ASTM methods.  • Calibrate laboratory instruments according to ISO 17025, ASTM and Tribologik internal quality requirements.  • Keep detailed documentation of daily tests and analysis. Security Officer AMERISTAR CASINO - East Chicago, IN June 2015 to March 2016 • Submitted daily activity and incident reports  • Responded to security related complaints and customer service requests in timely manner.  • Supported and assisted superiors when dealing with hostile situations. Sales Representative GHOST ARMOR INC - Orland Park, IL November 2012 to July 2013 • Contributed to team effort by consistently achieving sales goals and meeting organizational expectations.  • Presented and thoroughly explained products and services to potential and existing customers. Education Bachelors of Science in Technical Management in Business Intelligence & Analytics Management DeVry University - Tinley Park, IL October 2016 Skills Citrix (Less than 1 year), conflict management (Less than 1 year), data analytics (Less than 1 year), Excel (Less than 1 year), Microsoft Access (Less than 1 year), SQL (2 years) Additional Information SKILLS AND ATTRIBUTES  • Strong knowledge of business intelligence, data analytics, and project management.  • Excellent problem-solving, critical thinking, communication and relationship building skills.  • Proven ability to manage projects, time, and expectations to ensure organizational objectives are achieved.  • Effective communication, collaboration and conflict management abilities.  • Detailed working knowledge of:  ? Microsoft Project ? Citrix ? Microsoft Word  ? SQL ? Visio ? Microsoft Excel  ? OLAP ? Sharepoint ? Microsoft Access  ? Oracle Products ? Software Design Tools ? Microsoft PowerPoint