Chief Technology Officer (CTO) / Director of IT Chief Technology Officer (CTO) / Director of <span class="hl">IT</span> Elkridge, MD My objective is to utilize my technical and management skills for achieving the target and developing the best performance in a highly proficient manner. I would like to implement my innovative ideas, skills and creativity for accomplishing projects and goals. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Chief Technology Officer (CTO) / Director of IT ELTA North America - Annapolis Junction, MD March 2017 to Present Coordinate the evaluation, deployment and management of current and future IT systems across the   organization through the fostering of innovation and prioritization of initiatives   ? Manage all IT Operations and budgets, review spending for cost savings, efficiencies and budget   reconciliation   ? Identify opportunities for the appropriate and cost effective investment of financial resources in IT systems   including sourcing, purchasing and in-house development   ? Develop, maintain and implemented an asset replacement program for hardware and software across the   organization   ? Oversee develop and maintain the IT website applications   ? Oversee the development, implementation and maintenance of IT operating procedures and where   appropriate share with the community   ? Direct development and execution of an enterprise-wide disaster recovery plan   ? Identify, delegate and oversee the implementation of new technology and capital projects, ensuring   adherence to PMO guidelines   ? Lead Innovation and Capital Projects working groups with cross departmental representation to evaluate   and oversee the implementation of new technologies as appropriate   ? Ensure continuous delivery of IT services through oversight of service level agreements with end users and   monitoring of IT systems performance   ? Liaise with academic services and risk management to ensure support of business continuity requirements   ? Work with Main Campus counterparts to coordinate upgrades, outages, and determine functional   requirements for services delivered from central University Information Services   ? Provide technical leadership and strategy for IT User Support, including initiation, planning and evaluation   of new support technologies   ? Ensure IT system operation adheres to applicable laws and regulations   ? Provide support, leadership, and technical expertise in the coordination of systems and network   infrastructure, applications and data security systems implementation, management and support to achieve   secure and optimal performance   ? Provide support, leadership, and technical expertise in the coordination and integration of audio visual and   information technology solutions into classroom and conference facilities and events support   ? Oversee the development, coordination, and delivery of information technology support services for the   ELTA community, maintaining a high level of service and ensure the overall satisfaction of the user   community   ? Oversee the management of licensing agreements and vendor relationships for support-related software and   hardware   ? Design and implement methods for regularly assessing and reporting on user needs and satisfaction with IT services.  Coordinate IT managers and supervise computer scientists, technicians and other professionals to provide   guidance   ? Implementing, configure and maintain an DELTEK Costpoint systems   ? Provide oversight and continuous enhancement of cyber security awareness program and improvement on   risk management   ? Perform monthly access review across applications to help better understand where unauthorized access is   granted and can be removed   ? Interfacing with customers at varying organizational levels from end users to senior management on a   frequent basic.   ? Work closely with defense industry agencies   ? Knowledge of security frameworks such as ISO, NIST, PCI, and IT SOX audit requirements and security   attack vectors a plus   ? Experience with data classification, access control, and security model   ? Experience with ITAR and FOCI mitigation under a Proxy Board  ? Devise and establish IT policies and systems to support the implementation of strategies set by upper   management   ? Analyze the business requirements of all departments to determine their technology needs   ? Purchase efficient and cost effective technological equipment and software   ? Inspect the use of technological equipment and software to ensure functionality and efficiency   ? Identify the need for upgrades, configurations or new systems and report to upper management   ? Control budget and report on expenditure   ? Assist in building relationships with vendors and creating cost-efficient contracts  Unix System Administrator Team Lead/Information Assurance Engineer Hewlett Packard Enterprise (HPE) – Contracted by Artech Information Systems - Alexandria, VA July 2016 to Present • Preform system startup/shutdown, backups, vulnerability management, and COTS product upgrading/loading using Unix OS and Solaris.  • Working knowledge of SUN Web server, Tomcat, Apache, JBoss and Java.  • Assist with developing procedural, technical documentation, system migration and software release upgrade.   • Effectively articulate complex technical concepts to on-site clients, non-technical management and co-contractors.   • Perform application development lifecycle processes.   • Manage patching and troubleshooting OS and software packages.   • Provide vulnerability management support services for all platforms supported.  • Perform technical reviews and analysis of IT system designs, documentation, configurations, risk assessments, and security evaluations.  • Perform assessments of POA&M risk mitigation strategies to assess the effectiveness of solutions and provides feedback to program, project, and system managers.  • Identification of system vulnerabilities and ensures accurate, complete, and timely POA&M is developed to mitigate their risk. Tracks the implementation of actions taken to mitigate the risk of vulnerabilities in the POA&M. Will assist with the development and the creation of the POA&M and IAVA Statistics.  • Write or assist in the development of security test plans and test procedures.  • ensuring all Information Systems are operated and maintained in accordance with security policies and practices outlined in the NIST 800 series documents and customer's handbook. Information Systems Security Officer (ISSO)/Operations & Infrastructure Specialist/Datacenter Coordinator Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory September 2012 to June 2016 Job Title: Information Systems Security Officer (ISSO)/Operations & Infrastructure Specialist/Datacenter Coordinator  • Install, Configure and Maintain ESXi (ver.4 & 5) servers, KVM, Switches, Routers and Firewalls in a data center environment.  • Performed bare metal builds on new hardware; Created boot images and configured the virtual environment for easy backup/restore of corrupted systems.  • Testing & Debugging of system hardware and software related to current projects and sponsor needs.  • Collect and Analyze system/network logs for vulnerabilities and errors on a weekly basis. Utilize What's Up Gold Products for Log collection & Auditing.  • Develop and maintain department level scripts and applications necessary to automate certain processes and software deployment.  • System/Network Administrator for Windows & Linux based operating systems using LDAP or Active Directory.  • Cross-Domain Solution included providing data confidentiality, integrity and availability for multi-level access.  • Ensure all classified/unclassified facility is compliant with NISPOM and APL Security policies.  • Manage/Coordinate Network Updates & Maintenance  • Facility Manager for Classified & Unclassified VTC  • Act as POC for day-to-day technical support for closed and non-closed computing facilities including applications, engineering applications, account creation, password resets, initial diagnostics and resolve technical issues.  • Define /develop new and initiatively ways to keep our department current with new technology and make sure we can support critical needs and challenges.  • Identify, analyze and provide new hardware needs.  • Provide hardware /software support and integration for department level projects. Meet with project managers to understand project scope and priorities.  • Identify and procure required hardware/software.  • Independently build and support multipurpose Windows & Linux based client systems with standard desktop software.  • Provide technical support for unclassified and classified computing facilities  • Support existing hardware and identification of new hardware needs  • Track equipment, coordinate rebuilds with IT dept., assist local and remote users with laptop reservations.  • Support printers and copiers in department printing facilities and closed areas.  • Setup, Configure and Manage VMware and Zero Clients for closed technical facilities.  • Create & enforce IS policies for Operating Systems  • Implement & monitor customer IA policies (DSS/ODAA Baseline Standards/DISA STIGS)  • Technical Documentation- Configuration Management, security processes, System Security plans  • Asset Sanitization/Disposal  • Provide Technical Guidance to programs  • Monitor system posture & risk level  • Support certification & Accreditation requirements for program life cycle - from system proposal to system disestablishment  • Data Transfers - Approve and execute  • Data Spills- response, communication, equipment handling, cleanup management details, internal communication, customer coordination  • Media Management - approvals, tracking, storage, disposal  • Annual System Review - Risk assessment  • Antivirus Updates (DAT Files)  • Critical System Patching (customer IAVA responses)  • System Security Plans- draft, review, update/maintain records  • Disaster Recovery - documentation/update  • Information Security requirement planning  • Communication with or Designated Accrediting/Approving Authority (DAA)  • Produce a written summary report of the status of Design projects, equipment and network problems on a regular  • Hold design and information gathering workshops to understand the Customer's existing network design and technical requirements of new network designs.  • Carry out testing of new Designs, features, and functionality as required in a laboratory environment and to help develop plans to implement and verify that they are operating correctly in the live network  • Test patches and fixes to operating software and to ensure that they are implemented and functioning correctly in the pre-production test network and then live network as implementation plans dictate.  • Hold technology workshop to discuss equipment and network problems, and to provide case status updates, including the reasons for any problems encountered and the workarounds and/or solutions that are being tried  • Train the Customer's design, implementation and support personnel to configure and operate the Juniper Networks products  • Support design and planning of Juniper MX and SRX network products and associated solutions within the Customer infrastructure  • Support ongoing efforts in defining best practice policies for Juniper product applications used by Customer  • To peer with other employees performing similar Resident Engineering roles where lessons learned may help minimize risk associated with major network upgrades or changes in the network IT Support Specialist GXS - Gaithersburg, MD September 2012 to October 2012 Responsibilities  • Representing GXS while providing 2nd level technical support and responding to case service levels, effectively troubleshooting software issues, providing issue resolution and customer notification. Recreate customer issues & escalates to appropriate level.   • Actively participates in self-improvement, process, and technology training programs.  • Continually strives to expand comprehension of troubleshooting methodologies, application functionality, N-tier architecture, relational database architecture, and operating systems, as applicable.  • Work cross-functionally within the organization, in a team environment, to deliver quality, satisfaction, and resolutions to the customers  • Meet established service delivery guidelines and key performance indicators that are measured through customer satisfaction surveys, phone based activities, and schedule adherence.  • Show an understanding of the customer environment and product enabling resolution of complex technical issues and providing alternative support options, which may not be related to GXS products directly.  • Submit product defects to L3 development upon approval from TSS4.  • Act as a key point of contact for customer follow up and incident management, while maintaining ticketing system with updates and resolution.  • Collaborating on cross-team and cross product technical issues with a variety of resources including development to document software defects and customer suggestions.  • Participate in documentation and product review process for new product introductions.  • Contributing to the knowledge base by authoring and editing articles to share current information with team members.  • Providing internal training sessions and cross-training other team members in the area of product expertise.  • Using professional/technical knowledge, guided by known practices and established precedents, make decisions within defined parameters to impact schedules and deliverables of the project/function.  • Work under general guidance with results reviewed periodically, seeking approval from others on matters outside of job or role as needed. Senior Technical Support Specialist AAAS - Washington, DC June 2012 to August 2012 Acted as team lead to provide technical assistance and training to system users and staff.  • Responds to user requests for assistance by phone and in person  • Staffs the AAAS Help Desk and tracks the progress and resolution of technology issues  • Installs and modifies personal computer and Macintosh hardware and software  • Assists in the administration of Windows Active Directory, the Help Desk application, disk space, users, groups and server hardware  • Provides support for office email system and provides first-line support for AAAS software applications  • Diagnoses hardware, software, and operator problems and takes remedial actions or recommends procedural changes Installs and configures peripheral equipment such as monitors, keyboards, printers and disk drives  • Loads and configures software such as operating systems, environments and applications Assists in recommending hardware and software purchases and testing applications in order to assess usefulness and appropriateness  • Provides technical support for telecommunications system including installing equipment, performing diagnostic checks, network analysis, documentation and end-user training  • Prepares and presents training sessions to educate staff on technology issues, procedures and applications Senior IT Specialist/Team Lead ManTech formerly Worldwide Information Networks Systems - Lanham-Seabrook, MD September 2009 to April 2012 Provided technical desktop and remote support to 30-400 users in a Microsoft and MAC environment.  • Manage the processes and procedures of the daily maintenance and administration of systems, deployment of new systems, and document preparation.  • Recognized IT staffing needs and assisted in creating job postings to interview new staff.  • Built and maintained relationships with vendors and served as main contact for all IT matters.  • Set up, configured, and repaired all mobile devices including IPhone, I Pad, Blackberry, mobile hotspots.  • Communicated regularly with users, maintained computer systems, tested and implemented new solutions, evaluated resolutions for ways to prevent future problems, placed follow-up calls to users about ongoing issues.  • Answered questions and resolved computer software and hardware problems for end-user.  • Supported web design, site administration, network and system administration.  • Installed and maintained security systems on equipment.  • Performed project tasks for risk assessments and updated company internal infrastructure.  • Provided leadership and guidance for all IT staff to make sure operations and infrastructure was working smoothly with limited or no down time.  • Actively analyzed company's needs provided detailed reports of what could make infrastructure stronger.  • Managed a team of 10 staff members. Help Desk Analyst Grants Management System - Washington, DC June 2009 to September 2009 GMS)  • Supported 500-1000 users of all across the country.  • Developed and maintained SOPs for help desk support. Received and recorded all trouble tickets calls into Help Desk database.  • Installed and configured desktop software remotely. Recorded all incoming support calls and e-mails into the HEAT tracking for issue tracking and reporting purposes. Followed procedures for problem escalation/prioritization.  • Established and managed user accounts. Resolved routine technical problems for software, computers, networks and/or telephones utilizing standard troubleshooting methods.  • Provided instructions and assistance to end-users in the use of information technology systems and processes for commonly used systems.  • Recorded service requests and assisted users in the resolution of the request or transferred the request to the appropriate person. Performed system configuration, installation, and quality assurance, transport, deliver and retrieve equipment as assigned.  • Ran various reports on IT performance, usage or capacity. Respond to incidents and requests after normal business hours. Education Education/Clearance Learning Tree International March 2014 TESST College of Technology November 2010 Bachelor's Norfolk State University - Norfolk, VA None in CISSP - Certified Information Systems Professional Learning Tree International Skills Skills/Software Applications/OS- Microsoft Office Suite Programs, MAC OSX, Linux, Red Hat, Ubuntu, Solaris, Windows 8.1, 7, XP, Vista, Server 2003 & 2008, SharePoint, System Center 2012, Exchange, Remedy, Heat, Track, PC Anywhere, Team Viewer, Net Meeting, PeopleSoft, Log Mein, GCS, Deltek, Impromptu, Kroncos, GroupWise, VMware, Splunk, SIPRNET, ThinApp, SQL Server, What's Up Gold Products (Log Auditing Tools) ESXi 4 & 5, Networker, Meeting Sphere, Arcserve backups, SCAP tools, Languages- Java, COBOL, C++, C#, ASP.NET Visual Basic, HTML, Code Warrior, XML, Oracle and SQL Skills- BlackBerry and IPhone Repair and service. MAC Laptop and Desktop support, Log Collection, Active Directory, LDAP, Web Application Development, Client Servers, LAN, VLAN, WAN, TCP/IP. VPN, DHCP, DNS, Cisco Router & Switches, Juniper Products (MX Routers, SRX, EX Switches), JUNOS space, WINS, SAN, Windows Backup, Active Directory, Siprnet, Setup & Manage Zero Clients, Strong Troubleshooting skills, Managing and Deploying Windows 7, Managing VM clusters, Ability to adapt quickly to new environments and interfaces, Strong phone skills, ability to work independently or in a team environment, recognized for great customer service and time management. (10+ years), Service Desk, Active Directory, Cisco Certifications/Licenses A valid IT Specialist certification Additional Information Awards/Certificates  CompTIA A+ Certified  Network Information Technician Certified (TESST College)  Certificate of Outstanding Achievement (WINS Inc.)  Award of Excellence - Outstanding Performance as Team Lead (WINS Inc.)  Certificate of Achievement (Learning Tree International)  Certificate of Recognition – Bravo Team Award (JHUAPL)  **DOD Security Clearance**  Final Top Secret Clearance (Active)