Senior Director - Global Information Security (CISO) Senior Director - Global Information <span class="hl">Security</span> (CISO) Sr. Cybersecurity Leader / CISO Fullerton, CA ? IT Security Professional with over 20 years' experience and an extensive background in Information Security Management, IT Service Management and Project Management.  ? Achieved designations as a Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) since 2003, Certified Facilitator for Project Management workshops and certification in Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL v3) practices.  ? Past position held included responsibilities as Sr. Director (CISO), Regional Security Officer, Principal (CISO), Director IT Security Operations, Director of IT Service Management and Security, and Information Security Officer.  ? Developed and managed the strategic direction of the organization's security posture, as well as the Service Support and Service Delivery Program utilizing the ITIL best practices. This was all accomplished by developing a unified working relationship between the business and computing environments, and where my years of overall technical, strategic and tactical experience were utilized. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Director - Global Information Security (CISO) ALORICA - Irvine, CA August 2017 to March 2019 As a global company, with more than 150 offices and over 100k employees, Alorica provides Business Process Outsourcing for customer care and support. As the Senior Director for Information Security, I was the de-facto CISO and leader of the domestic and international security teams. During my tenure we developed the strategy to combine three disparate networks and IT infrastructures - this included the development of a Plan - Build - Run structure for cybersecurity. Additional developed the Common Controls for the management of the various compliance frameworks, including PCI, HITRUST, NIST and SOC. Senior Manager IT Cybersecurity EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES - Irvine, CA April 2016 to April 2017 The Senior Manager IT Cybersecurity is responsible for the Global IT Security Management function, providing line management, leadership and strategic direction. Re-Staffed/Rebuilt the Cybersecurity Team. Developed supplemental policies for Access Control and Mobile Device Management. Completed RFP and Implementation for managed services security operations center. Development project and SaaS Assessment Processes integrated with the PMO. Developed Cybersecurity Risk Register and standardized security framework based on the CIS/CSC 20 Critical Controls. Regional Director - Information Security Officer ST. JOSEPH HEALTH SYSTEM - Anaheim, CA April 2013 to April 2016 As Director - RSO I reported the Chief Security Officer (CSO) of St. Joseph Health (SJH) and was responsible to coordinate, manage, and deliver all security related activities in their assigned region. These duties encompass all aspects of information and physical security. Additionally, I was responsible for the development of policies and standards for Access Control, Enterprise Network, and Data Protection as part of the development and maturity of all the security pillars and programs. Information Security Principal (CISO) Hyundai Information Service North America - Irvine, CA February 2012 to April 2013 HISNA (renamed Hyundai Autoever in 2015) is the IT Service Provider for all the Hyundai and Kia Business Units in North America. The Principal, Information Security (CISO) is an executive level position responsible for all aspects of information security, including the management of policies and standards, engineering and operations, and compliance.    As Principal, I held responsibility as process owner and solutions architect for the development and implementation of a corporate-wide information security program and the associated ongoing activities to preserve the availability, integrity and confidentiality of HISNA's managed environments and applications. I was the leader for the Information Security and Risk Committee which consults and partners with the other infrastructure, technical services and business unit's functional groups to architect and enforce security policies and standards throughout the environments. Additionally, developed all Information Security Policies and Standards based on the ISO Framework. Director Information Security Operations FIRST AMERICAN FINANCIAL - Santa Ana, CA June 2010 to February 2012 As Director, I was responsible to provide management and guidance for four teams; Security Engineering and Operations, Security Administration, Architecture and Integration, and IT Control and Compliance, a total of 35 personnel.    ? Security Operations/Engineering  * Team of 14, including a Manager, Security Engineers and Analyst's (8 USA, 6 India)  * Team responsibilities include; Operations Consulting, Abuse Operation/Content Filtering, Access Control Management, Patch Management, Security Devices/Tools, Security Monitoring, Vulnerability Assessment    ? Security Administration  * Team of nineteen, including a Manager, Supervisor, Access Engineers and Access Analysts (5 USA, 14 India)  * IT (Active Directory) User Provisioning  * On-boarding, transfer, off-boarding personnel, granting and modifying access, Termination/transfer of rights management  * User access approval/attestation reporting    ? Controls and Compliance  * Managed process improvement initiatives in preparation for SOX and SSAE 16 compliance certifications  * Provides ongoing coordination of Internal, External and Client Audit Requests    ? Security Architecture and Integration  * Security Architecture and Consulting  * Development of Security Event Analysis Process  * Secure Configuration Process Framework  * Customer On-Boarding Process and Data Management Frameworks  * Security Integration with ITIL v.3 Catalog of Security Services  * Security Operations Compliance and Integration Process Development  * Security System Asset Management Integration Director Information Security PCV MURCOR - Pomona, CA November 2009 to June 2010 contract position) IT Technology ( Security) Specialist THE CAPITAL GROUP COMPANIES - Irvine, CA January 2007 to July 2009 The Capital Group Companies is a privately held worldwide Mutual Fund Management firm. American Funds is one of the largest mutual fund families in the US.    ? Responsible for the overall Information Security posture for the American Funds Web (AFWeb) environments. This comprises 8 externally facing websites that have over 5 million visitors and process over 4 million transactions per month.  ? Assigned as the sole IT Security Specialist to the American Funds Web Group with primary responsibility for all facets of Information Security and Risk Management, including;  ? Oversee semi-annual infrastructure security assessments at managed web hosting facilities  ? Managed the application security assessments for the public facing web sites  ? Align the Web Security Framework with Corporate Data Security  ? Represent AFWeb's Security and Risk Management interests with the CapGroup Directors and Senior Management  ? Manage an on-going Information Risk Management and Security Program.  ? Chair Risk Advocacy Group for the purpose of collaborating risk and security related issues and topics though the AFWeb Teams Sr. IT Security Consultant/ Analyst EXPERIAN AMERICA - Costa Mesa, CA August 2005 to January 2007 Experian is the global leader in providing value-added information solutions to organizations and consumers by providing information, analytics, decision-making solutions and processing services. Experian provides services to clients across diverse industries, including financial services, telecommunications, health care, insurance, retail and catalog, automotive, manufacturing, leisure, utilities, e-commerce, property and government.    ? Subject Matter Expert for all IT Security Policy and Standards related to proposed or active projects and initiatives.  ? Worked with subsidiary firms to review existing Information Security infrastructure, documentation, corporate culture, business and legal requirements, risk analysis, gap analysis.  ? Provided policies, procedures, planning and architecture guidance to drive Information Security programs.  ? Conducted research and provide recommendations for vendor relations and proof of concept comparisons.  ? Information Security project development and management.  ? SME for Enterprise Instant Messaging solution Sr Service Manager / Information Security Officer PEROT SYSTEMS - Plano, TX April 1999 to January 2005 Perot Systems is an internationally recognized provider of IT Services. Acquired by Dell, Inc. in 2009    Client Engagements included; IS Security Officer/Enterprise Architect/Business Consultant Parsons Corporation - Pasadena, CA February 2001 to January 2004 Parsons Corporation is a full service Architecture, Engineering and Construction company managing major projects worldwide while operating in 46 states and 37 countries with an emphasis on project management and technology.    ? Responsible for the management of Security, the Technology Standards and Certification processes, technical consulting to the IT Infrastructure teams, and a contributor to the IS Enterprise Architecture and Technology Roadmap.  ? Responsible for both the strategic and tactical direction of the organizations security posture. This includes the oversight of the Incident Response Team, overall Security Architecture, IS Security Policies, Standards and Procedures.  ? Responsible for the oversight of the major vendor relationships and the coordination with the IT Infrastructure teams for network, server and desktop systems, and the Business Development teams in support of Parsons Projects and business initiatives.  ? Authored and Enforced IS Security Policies, Standards and Procedures  ? Performed research, selection and certification for IT hardware and desktop standards  ? Provided tactical and strategic input for IT Architecture and Roadmap  ? Served as a Certified Facilitator for Project Initiation Workshops  ? Consultant to the IS Infrastructure teams  ? Contributor to the IS Enterprise Architecture and Technology Roadmap IT Operations Manager/ Project Manager California Power Exchange - Alhambra, CA April 1999 to February 2001 The California Power Exchange served as the energy trading clearing house during the de-regulated California Energy scenario.  ? Responsible for all Process Management in IT Operations. This includes the areas of Release, Configuration and Problem Management and the recourse tasking of IT operations personnel.  ? Operations related Project Management  ? IS Security Policy and Standards Management  ? Disaster Recovery/Business Continuity Planning  ? Development of Operations Procedures Manual  ? Hardware/Software Procurement and Reconciliation  ? Coordination of Maintenance and License Agreements  ? Management of Capacity Plan and Operations Budget  ? Management related to Operational Service Level Agreements  ? Liaison between Operations Staff and Business Units  ? Coordination/Preparation and Distribution of Daily Status Reports  ? Manage Operations Master Calendar    Saved the California Power Exchange approximately $1.25 million dollars over a 12 month period through the use of Perot Procurement and re-negotiations of Maintenance and License Agreements. Education Mathematics Jacksonville University - Jacksonville, FL Skills Information Security (10+ years), It Security (10+ years), HIPAA (5 years), Cissp (10+ years), PCI (4 years), SOC Type 2 (8 years), SOX, Hippa Certifications/Licenses Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) October 2003 to October 2023