System Support Analyst II System Support <span class="hl">Analyst</span> II System Support Analyst II Garland, TX • 17+ years of current experience supporting enterprise user communities of 1000 - 15,000.  • Experienced installing and supporting Microsoft OS Windows 7,8 and 10 Pro/Enterprise, XP Professional, Windows Server 2003/2008/2012  • Experienced with troubleshooting all current Windows OS and Microsoft Office 2003 - 2016/365 software Suites.  • Experienced in installation and configuration of Windows based applications and computer peripherals.  • Experienced with creating/applying images on windows machines using Norton Ghost software , SCCM and Windows AIK/MDT  • Desktop experience includes installing and configuring various hardware devices (Motherboards, Video Cards, Hard Drives, Network Cards, NICs, Fax/Cable/DSL Modems, and CD/DVD ROMS), Laptop Configuration and Setup, imaging, application installation, Remote Access Setup, account creation/maintenance, rights assignment, troubleshooting technical issues.  • Utilized remote tools such as NetOp, DameWare, Remotely Anywhere, LogMeIn rescue and SCCM (System Center Configuration Manager) remote control to connect to and troubleshoot software applications on Windows 7,8 and 10 Pro/Enterprise environment.  • Familiarity with Juniper\Cisco Network Switches and Cable/DSL wireless modems/Router setups  • Self-starter, flexible, eager to learn and always a positive attitude.  • Current extensive knowledge using Active Directory Users and Computers  • Strong team and customer service focus.  • Familiar with VOIP applications (Avaya OneX , Cisco IP Communicator , Polycom) Work Experience System Support Analyst II Topgolf May 2019 to August 2019 • Managing telephone, instant messaging and ticket queues so that venue client software issues are tracked and resolved in a timely fashion  • Provide first and second level support to office employees and venue associates via Service Now  • Manage employee account group policy management creation and termination processes via active directory  • Configure and troubleshoot workstation/Laptop systems and network issues  • Office 365 administration and configuration and troubleshoot end user issues Desktop Support Analyst TriCom May 2018 to September 2018 Client: Security Benefit    • Windows network and computer System migration  • Computer/Network Installations, maintenance, and repairs  • Coordinate User data and computer migration to new domain  • Image and deploy new machines to user community  • Troubleshoot network connectivity at desk side and data cabinet Self Employed Self Employed November 2017 to May 2018 Independent Field Service Technician  Client: Various    • Computer/Network Installations, maintenance, and repairs  • Replace HDD on back office PC  • Replace Register base units, Receipt printers, HDD  • Troubleshoot and replace network switches/Routers  • Windows network and computer System migrations  • POS refresh assist for major retailors Retail Technical Support NLBS September 2017 to November 2017 Client: Cognizant    • Manage incoming calls from store associates pertaining to mobile POS device.  • Troubleshoot issues with mobile device printing issues  • Troubleshoot network connection issues with mobile device  • Assist with software updates/patches by phone from start to finish, ensuring successful and timely installs.  • Troubleshoot issues as they arise to ensure minimal store impact/downtime. Self Employed Self Employed May 2017 to September 2017 Independent Field Technician  Client: Various    • Computer/Network Installations, maintenance, and repairs  • Replace HDD on back office PC  • Replace Register base units, Receipt printers, HDD  • Troubleshoot and replace network switches/Routers IT Helpdesk Specialist/ IT Security Analyst Security Benefit/Se2 June 2015 to January 2017 • Helpdesk phone support for a user community of 1,000+ nationwide and globally    • Troubleshoot various system issues on computers running Windows7/8.1/10 Professional and Enterprise editions, Internet Explorer 8-11, and Microsoft Office 2010-2016/365 (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and Outlook).  • Provide support for handheld devices including iPhone, Android and all Windows mobile phones. This included setup for enterprise email.  • Utilize Service Manager Console for documentation and tracking of trouble-tickets.  • Maintain SharePoint site access via Active Directory security groups.  • Use SQL Server Manager to apply/remove security access for SQL servers.  • Use Active Directory to create and maintain security groups , OUs and Service accounts  • Unlock accounts &Reset passwords and add/remove computers to the Active Directory Domain(s).  • Utilize SCCM for system imaging for both desktops and laptops.  • Provide remote access setup and support, account creation/maintenance and rights assignment. (RSA secure token/CheckPoint VPN , Citrix Delivery Services Console , Citrix App center)  • Install/Uninstall software applications and upgrades  • Troubleshoot connection and functionality issues with VOIP softphone applications (Cisco IP Communicator & Agent)  • Windows Server 2008/2012 share folder creation and administration  • Provisioning AD\Email accounts for users. Troubleshooting issues that come in via incident management system. These can range from system outages to setting file share permissions. Retail & Corporate Deployment Technician /System Engineer Payless Shoe Source August 2012 to June 2015 • Manage incoming calls from field technicians and execute check-in and check-out procedures.  • Apply corporate Image to laptops /Desktops and deploy to end user. (Internal and Field)  • Troubleshoot and correct and laptop/desktop HW/SW issues that may occur after deployment  • Assist field technicians by phone from start to finish, ensuring successful and timely installs.  • Troubleshoot issues as they arise to ensure minimal store impact/downtime.  • Contact locations 2 weeks prior to scheduled upgrade to ensure there are no outstanding technical / scheduling issues.  • During downtime/blackouts, work outstanding incident tickets.  • Document all activities regarding the location in the help desk (Service Now) application according to guidelines and quality standards.  • Interface with other Technology Team members to share knowledge to more effectively support locations.  • Communication to the locations before, during and after the installations. Technical Analyst/Desktop Support Technician Rose International February 2012 to May 2012 Client: Accenture  • Provide desk side technical support for laptops and desktop computers in a WIN7 Enterprise OS environment.  • Create and Deploy Windows 7 System image for Developer workstations via MDT (Microsoft Deployment toolkit software).  • Network Printer installation  • Troubleshoot LAN/WLAN network issues  • Specialized Software installation and support  • Setup and install and apply system images to Dell Workstations for training environment IT Support/Operations Clawhammer PR April 2011 to February 2012 • Provided technical support for laptops and desktop computers in a Windows 7 environment.  • Install /Upgrade Windows operating system and production software.  • Maintain and troubleshoot LAN/WLAN network issues in a SOHO environment.  • Produced and updated market progress reports for current clients. Helpdesk Analyst I Coldwell Banker March 2008 to November 2010 • Helpdesk phone support for a user community of 10,000 nationwide and globally    • Troubleshoot various system issues on computers running Windows7, Vista, XP Professional, Mac OSX, Internet Explorer 6, and Microsoft Office 2003/2007/2010 (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and Outlook).  • Provided support for handheld devices including Blackberry, Android and all Windows mobile phones. This included setup for email from the CBRE system.  • Utilized Remedy for documentation and tracking of trouble-tickets.  • Reset passwords and add/remove computers to the Active Directory Domain(s).  • Utilized Ghost for imaging for both desktop and laptop systems.  • Provided remote access setup, account creation/maintenance and rights assignment. (GotoAssit/LogMeIn rescue)  • Install/Uninstall software applications and upgrades  • Troubleshoot connection and functionality issues with VOIP softphone applications  • Troubleshoot login and functionality issues for internal SharePoint sites Helpdesk Analyst II/Desktop Support II Credit Solutions May 2007 to February 2008 • Desktop and Helpdesk support for a user community of 500+  • Troubleshoot various system issues on computers running Windows XP Professional, Mac OSX, Internet Explorer 6, and Microsoft Office 2003 (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and Outlook).  • Utilize Altiris for call tracking/ticketing.  • Desktop & laptop configuration and setup, desktop imaging  • Assist with department moves. Setup and configure workstations for access to the network.  • Utilize Active Directory to troubleshoot logon issues and add or remove users from security groups and distribution groups. Corporate Support / Helpdesk Analyst II Comsys December 2006 to May 2007 Client: Brinker (Brinker International)  • Frontline Helpdesk phone support for corporate laptop and desktop users  • Troubleshoot hardware and software issues in a Windows 2000/XP/ Office 2003 professional environment.  • Blackberry Enterprise Server device setup and support Education Associate