Bank Officer - Business Unit Manager - Senior Business Analyst Bank Officer - Business Unit Manager - Senior Business <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Bank Officer - Business Unit Manager - Senior Business Analyst Kenmore, NY Work Experience Bank Officer - Business Unit Manager - Senior Business Analyst CITI Global Markets Inc - Getzville, NY November 2016 to May 2019 * Create weekly reporting for tracking Master Forward Transaction Agreements (MSFTA) for trading TBA, CMOs and Spec Pools with counterparties.  * Created and refine monthly Senior Management Regime (SMR) presentations for US entities trading in European Countries.  * Action various checks for trading desks, verifying eligibility to trade certain products with counterparties.  * Perform semi-annual system reviews for Employee Entitlement Reviews (EERs).  * Prepare quarterly presentations for Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) Meeting. Loan Processor PHH Mortgage - Williamsville, NY June 2016 to November 2016 Coordinates the efforts of other departments necessary to close the loan and directly impacts loan closing  timelines.  * Assess income, credit and asset documents against guidelines to ensure feasible submissions to Underwriting Department; effectively articulate calculations and any impact/concerns to clients. Bank Officer – Project Manager Office - IT Business Intermediate Analyst CITI Global Markets Inc - Getzville, NY January 2015 to June 2016 * Project facilitator for large scaled initiative to migrate business onto new trading platform.  * Created and maintain project management library documentation, including; change management logs, weekly project review and Day 2 items.  * Coordinated project activities, scheduled and lead meetings, distributed communication of minutes and actions.  * Generated and updated project plan and time lines.  * Communicated with all areas and levels of project to ensure any issues or obstacles are brought to attention of senior management. Bank Officer - Product Control Analyst, Global Securitized Markets Product Control CITI Global Markets Inc - Getzville, NY November 2012 to January 2015 * Provided daily profit and loss (PNL) calculations and commentary for the Commercial Mortgage desk.  * Monitored client deposit account balances, applying funds towards loan fees as needed.  * Reconciled positions interest calculations daily, resolving discrepancies with the desk and middle office.  * Validated proper controls were in place to maintain compliance with Citi policies while also ensuring that PNL reported on the general ledger offered an independent and accurate summary of desk activity.  * Provided leadership, mentoring and training to junior team members. Senior Analyst, ISG Security Coding Department CITI Global Markets Inc - Getzville, NY April 2012 to October 2012 * Subject Matter Expert (SME) in security setups involving mortgage, treasury and corporate products.  * Handled security coding issues escalated from trading desk and key customers.  * Coached junior staff through more complex security setups and updates.  * Produced weekly Service Level Agreement (SLA) Report for North America.  * Trained new hires new hires on systems and security setups. Operations Support Analyst, ISG Security Coding Department CITI Global Markets Inc - Getzville, NY October 2010 to March 2012 * Reviewed multiple data sources for new security set ups and modifications.  * Compared and updated data in legacy systems to new Security Master Coding program.  * Ensured that necessary accounting protocols for new securities were within established thresholds.  * Facilitated production testing and user acceptance testing for strategic technology rollouts.  * Documented procedures for processing daily work in various systems. Security Processing Representative, MBS Securitization Department CITI Global Markets Inc - Getzville, NY March 2007 to September 2010 * Acted on behalf of underwriter on; mortgage backed non-agency deals, collateralized mortgage obligations and collateralized debt obligations.  * Reconciled asset backed securities warehouse customer accounts.  * Compiled and processed Weekly Operations Report using data concerning Securitizations Department.  * Accurately completed bond trade corrections, matching trade data against Bloomberg Terminal data.  * Authored and update department procedure manuals for; Non Agency Deals, payment wiring. Lien Release Specialist HSBC - Depew, NY November 2005 to March 2007 * Prepared satisfaction of mortgage documentation in accordance to various state and county requirements.  * Monitored progress of mortgage satisfactions on daily compliance report.  * Provided accurate and timely answers regarding satisfaction process to internal and external customers.  * Reviewed requests from fellow department representatives on validity of outsourcing to abstractor.  * Analyzed mortgage files; concentrating on mortgage note, deed and mortgage assignment documents. Education Bachelor of Science in Business Studies in Business Studies State University College at Buffalo - Buffalo, NY Skills Variance analysis, Strategic planning, Customer service, Mentoring Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/mark-russo-0ab99b57