Transportation Security Officer Transportation <span class="hl">Security</span> Officer Transportation Security Officer - Department Of Homeland Security San Antonio, TX Five (5) years of experience in Computer Information Systems and seeking a Security Information Analyst position in a growth-oriented organization with focus on Systems Support, security monitoring and investigation. Certified in Security+ ce and Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH). BSc in Healthcare Management. US Air Force Reserves.  Secret Clearance Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Transportation Security Officer Department Of Homeland Security - San Antonio, TX October 2015 to Present • Transportation Security Officer for a high-volume airport that screens over 50 million passengers per year  • Safeguard the nation's transportation system, and help build TSA's capacity to meet the ever-changing cyber- security environment.  • Identify potential security concerns and completed additional checks. IT Support Contour Networks Inc - Denver, CO January 2011 to October 2015 • Trained in several areas of the company including software integration, and hardware integration.  • Provided repair and technical support on Dell, Compaq and Toshiba computers/laptops  • Resolved problems through Chat, Text, Email, and Phone  • Escalated tickets and reassigned tickets to proper help-desk group (i.e. software, cyber security or data management)  • Updated and documented tickets regularly to maintain open line of communication with coworkers and supervisors  • Implemented company policies, technical procedures and standards for preserving the integrity and security of data, reports and access. Assistant Information Security Analyst Ghana Health Service February 2007 to October 2010 - Nkwanta, Ghana  • Monitored computer virus reports to determine when to update virus protection systems.  • Investigated malicious phishing emails, domains and IPs using Open Source tools and recommend proper blocking based on analysis.  • Troubleshot IT issues at all levels of the OSI & TCP/IP model  • Conducted Social Engineering training and testing to all nursing staff  • Participated in two security audits conducted by the Ministry of Health HQ INFOSEC Department  • Produced ad hoc reports and documents for senior team members. Education Bachelor of Science in Healthcare Management Metropolitan State University of Denver - Denver, CO 2017 Associate Degree in General Studies Community College of Aurora - Aurora, CO 2015 Skills business requirements. (Less than 1 year), Customer support (Less than 1 year), Excellent written (Less than 1 year), Excellent written and verbal communication skills (Less than 1 year), Networking (Less than 1 year), presentation skills. (Less than 1 year), report writing (Less than 1 year), writing skills (Less than 1 year), written and verbal (Less than 1 year), Customer Service, Organizational Skills, Word, Security Military Service Branch: Air Force Service Country: United States Rank: SSgt May 2014 to Present Commendations: Outstanding Achievement 24th January 2018 to 1 August 2018 Ali Al Salem, Kuwait Assessments Verbal Communication — Highly Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to effectively convey information when speaking. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/8dlgyb6wjvle-ce0 First Aid Skills — Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to identify treatments for common medical emergencies. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ewd5fabpaze3lpnb Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Skills  • Meticulous attention to detail  • IT Skills in PC Hardware/Software and Networking  • Excellent report writing skills  • Resolve complex problems with minimal supervision  • Excellent written and verbal communication & presentation skills.    • Ability to work in a fast-paced environment and adapt to rapidly changing business requirements.  • Customer Support  • Self-motivated  • Very reliable and hardworking