Senior Consultant - Cyber Compliance & Risk Management Senior Consultant - Cyber Compliance &amp; Risk Management Senior Consultant - Cyber Compliance & Risk Management - Booz Allen Hamilton Arlington, VA An IT Security Professional with over seven (7) years experience in SharePoint, IT Audit and IT Security Consulting. I am a Navy Qualified Validator (Level 2). I possess both CompTia Security+ and Certificate of Cloud Security Knowledge certifications. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Consultant - Cyber Compliance & Risk Management Booz Allen Hamilton November 2018 to Present • Provide support, execution, and management services to a high visibility DoD Information Assurance (IA) division.  • Develop and brief material to senior client leadership to support decision-making.  • Provide onsite Cybersecurity technical expertise, including Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA), IA and network security policy compliance, Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) requirements, and Risk Management Framework (RMF) continuous monitoring.  • Assist with investigating impacts and developing implementation recommendations regarding changes or additions to existing policies and production of new policies.  • Participate in internal and external IA policy working groups, support the advocacy of DoD interests, and prepare memorandums, decision packages, point papers, briefings, and messages.  • Conduct in-depth reviews of DoD and Joint staff manuals and instructions to assess security, operational, and resource impact and develop technical content.  • Support the development and implementation of IA policies to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of DoD networks.  • Review Certification and Accreditation (C&A) paperwork and documents and develop DoD guidance, workflows, and templates required for the RMF for DoD IT. Cyber Security Auditor KPMG/Arbola Inc June 2017 to October 2018 • Reviewed Complementary User Entity Controls (CUEC) policy submissions from Budget Submitting Offices (BSOs) for conformance with CEUC guidebooks.  • Performed Audit liaison duties by reviewing Prepared by Client (PBC) documentation before submitting to auditors to ensure PBC artifacts submitted by system owners' answer the PBC ask.  • Provided analysis of PBCs on the Audit Response Center (ARC) tool, compared to the spreadsheet presented by auditors Ernst and Young (EY) to ensure the Auditors list reflected the command submissions.  • Ensured PBCs were scrubbed for Personally Identifiable Information (PII) before submitting to auditors.  • Pulled PBC artifacts from audit tool and submitted to Auditors on behalf of system owners.  • Support kick-off, walkthrough and observation meetings by taking note of high-level items and possible PBCs.  • Led two external audits by providing support to system owners, leading System owner/Independent Public Accountant (IPA) meetings and supporting Notice of Finding and Recommendation (NFR) meetings.  • As part of the Enterprise Continuous Monitoring Program (ECMP) team, develop ECMP assessment strategy plan to assist in continuously monitoring controls post authorization to ensure compliance with security requirements and policies. SharePoint Site Collection Administrator/ IT Analyst Vsolvit LLC January 2013 to June 2017 • Monitored SharePoint performance.  • Ability to update various systems security artifacts within POA&M tracking tools regularly to validate remediation of security weaknesses.  • Ability to performed reviews of security documents updated by Information Systems Security Officer (ISSO) to confirm they were compliant.  • Ability to utilize NIST 800-53 to conduct security control testing, with results documented in a Security Requirements Traceability Matrix (SRTM) to determine each system in compliance with Federal Security Standards.  • Identified and evaluated improvement options.  • Conducted review sessions with clients to ensure project in line with their requirements.  • Led SharePoint site requirements definition, performance trade-off analysis, and design.  • Analyzed client business requirements, processes & workflows and made recommendations based on the analysis.  • Asked who, what, when questions to avoid ambiguity and ensure client needs are well communicated.  • Created custom lists and lists from templates. Created custom views. Created, modified, add/move documents to Libraries. Utilized SharePoint document collaboration features like version control, check-in/check-out and content approval. Worked with picture, asset and slide libraries.  • SharePoint site administration activities included granting access, assigning permissions, and customization to standard SharePoint templates.  • Consistently exceeded customer satisfaction objectives.  • Appointed to sit on the SharePoint Configuration Control Board and the SharePoint Governance Board. Group Benefit Specialist Legal Shield Inc April 2008 to December 2012 • Participated in annual open enrollment and semi-annual voluntary benefits enrollment.  • Presented to high level officials on protecting their employees and their businesses.  • Educated business owners and their employees on the growing problem of Identity theft. Offered propositions on the importance of Identity Theft and Legal Benefits to Companies.  • Helped business owners successfully implement a variety of legal benefit programs that can help a company reduce absenteeism, increase productivity, keep a progressive company image. These programs provide the services to protect employee's financial, legal, parental, consumer, and civil rights. Education Bachelor of Science University of Lagos - Lagos, NG Master of Business Administration in Business Administration University of Western Ontario Skills Compliance, Governance, Risk Management, Excel Certifications/Licenses CCSK Present Certificate of Cloud Security Knowledge Security+ March 2019 to March 2022 CompTia Security + Navy Qualified Validator Level two (2) Present