IT Hosting Manager <span class="hl">IT</span> Hosting Manager IT Hosting Manager Surprise, AZ Work Experience IT Hosting Manager Epiq Systems - Phoenix, AZ April 2015 to July 2019 • Was responsible for all Hosting operations to include 30 direct reports consisting of managers, supervisors and analysts in the US, Hong Kong and India.  • Managed all aspects of multiple simultaneous fast-paced assigned projects with distributed teams  • Designed and maintained project vision, project working standards, and agreements  • Developed project roadmap, release plan, resource allocation, funding request, communication plan, risks and issues management plan, test plan, and defect management plan  • Managed project scope, budget, project burn charts, presentations to IT/Business, daily standup, agile ceremonies, backlog grooming, and retrospective sessions  • Implemented Agile methodology using Rally and Planview tools  • Facilitated project meetings (all Agile meetings - Discovery Sessions, Iteration 0, Iteration Planning, Demo & Retrospective, Daily Stand-up, Backlog Grooming); completes project tracking/analysis reports  • Supported Agile/ITIL framework and Incident Management/Problem Management utilizing Service Now  • Managed all QA testing on development projects  • Budgetary oversight and financial controls  • Participated in the RCA process and its follow-up actions  • Utilized Six Sigma for continuous improvement application initiatives  • Changed management & Release Coordination  • Ensured Time to Delivery metrics are met/exceeded  • Participated fully in the Service Delivery process  • Had accountability for hiring, firing, performance management, salary increases and one on one meetings  • Worked directly with the IT project management team for related project deliverables  • Regularly reported SLAs, QA, Application Support metrics and objectives to IT/OPS senior management  • Was responsible for tracking and removing obstacles to internal/external quality assurance teams, application support team, and training or escalating as appropriate.  • Responsible for maintaining relationships with service desk and application development teams  • Strong vendor management NOC Manager Phoenix NAP - Phoenix, AZ March 2014 to March 2015 • Ensured the appropriate level of skilled staff and the necessary staff availability to support customer demands and internal business drivers. These duties include, but are not limited to performance management and reporting, project management, process improvement, coaching and supporting local management, proper delegation of work assignments, conflict resolution, training/mentoring, hiring/firing recommendations and other such related duties.  • Responsible for all Service Delivery and RCA initiatives  • Responsible for the Operational Readiness of a 160,000 sq. ft. enterprise grade datacenter and 41 staff members including and 2 technical managers and 4 supervisors.  • Oversight of the management of Operations ticketing work queues for changes, tasks and problems for the Phoenix facility.  • Drives the training, implementing, and enforcing of SunGard's Operational processes and procedures for the following areas, but are not limited to, customer implementation and support, emergency procedures, and troubleshooting.  • Oversees and supports the internal tasks necessary for the delivery of services to our customers. Coordinates with the Implementation Project Managers concerning new customer implementations at the facility.  • Ensured product implementations were conducted in accordance with standard procedures and in order to meet stringent Service Level Agreements.  • Responsible for the Implementation and maintenance of a process-oriented culture to ensure the continued compliance with ISO9001 standards as well as SSAE-16 compliance.  • Customer support requires direct customer contact from the sales process throughout ongoing operational support to include the direct handling of customer inquiries or concerns.  • Customer support requires direct customer contact from the sales process throughout ongoing operational support to include the direct handling of customer inquiries or concerns.  • Enhances and/or develops Managed Services operational procedures. Understand and coordinate the monthly collection of various metrics for analysis.  • Customer Relationship Management for 200+ customers  • Budgetary oversight and financial controls  • Participated in the RCA process and its follow-up actions  • Ensured Time to Delivery metrics were met/exceeded  • Participated fully in the Service Delivery process Datacenter Manager Phoenix, AZ October 2006 to March 2014 • Ensures the appropriate level of skilled staff and the necessary staff availability to support customer demands and internal business drivers. These duties include, but are not limited to performance management and reporting, project management, process improvement, coaching and supporting local management, proper delegation of work assignments, conflict resolution, training/mentoring, hiring/firing recommendations  • Was responsible for yearly Datacenter audits  • Responsible for the Operational Readiness of Data Center Facilities  • Supports and ensures the proper coordination, monitoring, maintenance, and repair of the facility and their critical support systems (Normal and Emergency Power, HVAC, Fire Detection and Suppression, Life Safety, etc.).  • Responsible for all Service Delivery and RCA initiatives  • Oversight of the management of Operations ticketing work queues for changes, tasks and problems for the Phoenix facility.  • Drives the training, implementing, and enforcing of SunGard's Operational processes and procedures for the following areas, but are not limited to, customer implementation and support, emergency procedures, and troubleshooting.  • Currently manages all Data Center facility items in Phoenix, Arizona: HVAC, Power, UPS, PDUs, Preventive Maintenance and Emergency Operations  • Oversees and supports the internal tasks necessary for the delivery of services to our customers. Coordinates with the Implementation Project Managers concerning new customer implementations at the facility.  • Ensures SunGard's product implementations were conducted in accordance with standard procedures and meet their stringent Service Level Agreements.  • Responsible for the Implementation and maintenance of a process-oriented culture to ensure the continued compliance with ISO9001 standards as well as SSAE-16 compliance.  • Customer support requires direct customer contact from the sales process throughout ongoing operational support to include the direct handling of customer inquiries or concerns.  • Ensured customer support documentation were properly maintained.  • Enhances and/or develops Managed Services operational procedures. Understand and coordinate the monthly collection of various metrics for analysis.  • Customer Relationship Management for 45 customers  • Vendor Relationship Management for 40+ vendors  • Contract review and management experience  • Comprehensive experience with consulting and technical service  • Ability to multi-task and handle a fast-paced environment with continuously shifting priorities while maintaining a constant focus on the customer experience  • Project Management, Strategic Planning, Team Leadership, Change Management, Vendor Negotiations, and Regulatory Compliance  • Project Manager for facility upgrades, construction projects, new cab, power and internet installs  • Daily support of the Sales department in pre/post sales roles providing SOW's, RFP's, upsell opportunities to C - level executives, facility tours, product demonstrations, requirements gathering and direct customer contact explaining operational structure and abilities.  • Participated on internal process improvement committees.  • Develops new business, builds strong relationships, and drives sales and partner integration. Able to present to a wide range and size of audiences  • Ability to effectively manage time to meet commitments and deadlines  • Abreast of emerging disaster recovery computing technologies and how they may benefit SunGard and its customer base  • Storage Experience with multiple vendors  • VMware vSphere and Hyper-V experience Sr. Technical Analyst/Project Coordinator Fox Sports - Los Angeles, CA April 2004 to October 2006 • Project Manager for nationwide full life-cycle IT projects supervising 30+ technicians for various projects  • Managed the computer inventories for two Fox Cable sites  • Managed all hardware inventories and retrievals (eWaste) for FOX Sports nationwide  • Managed ongoing maintenance and upgrade (roll-out) procedures for the desktop environment  • Provided training to Jr. Technical Analysts and end-users via classroom and web training to include the development of training guides/tutorials  • Tested and analyzed New software and hardware  • Assisted in the development and maintenance of IT documentation management via SharePoint and Altiris  • Provided Sr. IT application support for FOX Sports, IGN, FX, Fox International, FOXSports.com on MSN, SpeedTV and National Geographic Fox Interactive Media, and Fuel TV.    • Provided on-site IT support for and The NFL on FOX ROADSHOW at various NFL Stadiums working with Terry Bradshaw, Howie Long, Jimmy Johnson, Troy Aikman, Pam Oliver, Jay Glazer, Michael Strahan, Emmitt Smith, Eddie George and various other actors, professional athletes and comedians.  • Provided primary senior level on-site hardware and software technical support for two FOX Cable locations: 1440 Sepulveda and Fox Interactive Media Headquarters.  • Supported C-Level executives of Fox Interactive Media (Ross Levinsohn, Richard Rosenblatt, Mark Jung, Adam Bain and Mark Angus)  • Responsible for configuring, installing and supporting Blackberry PDA's on B.E.S.  • VPN configuration and support, Citrix ICA Client support on both PC/MAC  • Provided direct MAC/PC support to The American Idol website programmers  • Assisted the Network and Security Teams with tasks impacting the desktop environment Consultant-Data Security Analyst Consulnet/Washington Mutual Banks - Chatsworth, CA March 2003 to December 2003 • Supported various operating systems: platforms such as Novell, UNIX, Windows SQL Server, 2K/NT/XP/95, OS2, AFC2 mainframe, and applications (Netware Console One, Active Directory, NT Domain Administration, Optis, Business Objects, Remedy/Peregrine, OS2 Domain Administration, Processed new hires, transfers and terminations, and precipitated information security changes.  • Assisted with training and support for new information security analysts and technical support for other colleagues. Consultant-Application Support Analyst Triad Personnel - Los Angeles, CA October 2001 to January 2002 • Project Manager for upgrading of all Desktops/Laptops (450+) to Windows XP, Office XP and Local and Network Printers spanning multiple locations nationwide  • Provided 3rd level HW/SW technical support using Dell desktops/laptops  • Resolved issues with Microsoft Windows 95-XP, Office 97-XP, Outlook 2000, LAN/WAN, remote connectivity issues, printers, and other software/hardware Technical Analyst Deloitte & Touché - Los Angeles, CA August 1999 to September 2001 • Managed the "Walk-In-Clinic" for local and remote laptop users  • Provided 3rd level desktop support supporting 5000+ users Reduced laptop downtime by 50% within the "Walk-In-Clinic"  • Participated in several full-scale OS/Email migrations of laptops, and desktops  • Supported users via Help Desk averaging 25-30 calls daily  • Experienced in troubleshooting MS Windows 95-2000, Office 97-2000, Outlook 2000, remote connectivity issues, Printers, and other various software and hardware  • Trained employees on the daily use of IBM, Compaq and Dell Laptops, Desktops, PDA's, Windows 2000/XP and Office 2002 and other "in house" applications Laser Metrology Specialist DuPont Photomasks - Round Rock, TX April 1998 to September 1998 Wafer Fab Technician AMD - Austin, TX June 1996 to April 1998 Technical Analyst DELL - Austin, TX April 1995 to June 1996 Specialist E-4P - Nurnberg, DE October 1989 to January 1994 Germany  Squad Leader - Supervised 112 Combat Engineers for various construction-engineering projects.  Awards Received - Soldier of the Month, Soldier of the Quarter, Army Service Ribbon, Army Lapel Button, National Defense Service Medal, Kuwait Liberation Medal, Overseas Service Medal, Southwest Asia Service Medal with 3 Bronze stars, Army Commendation Medal, Wheeled Vehicle Drivers badge, Army Good Conduct Medal, Expert M-16 Rifle, Sharpshooter (Hand Grenade) and NCO Professional Development Ribbon Education Bachelor of Science in Informatics Western International University - Glendale, AZ 2016 Skills Mentor, Training, Cisco, Data center, Itil