Information Security Analyst - Vulnerability Program Manager Information <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> - Vulnerability Program Manager Information Security Analyst - Vulnerability Program Manager - JFA Security San Jose, CA • 12 years of Information Technology experience including Systems Administration and Hardening, Incident Response, Project Management, Security Analysis; environments include FDA, HIPAA, PCI and SOX regulations.  • Solid experience working multiple cross-department projects with a high rate of customer satisfaction  • Reliable team leader exercising tact and good judgment while providing A+ service with measurable results.  • Experience with Unified Communications (VoIP), Core Networks, (WAN/LAN), security related projects, Active Directory Management, Wireless Access Point Management, security related products  • Networking vendor's products; Cisco Systems, Juniper Networks, Foundry Networks and others.  • Provided technical leadership for several small, medium and enterprise companies. Work Experience Information Security Analyst - Vulnerability Program Manager JFA Security - San Jose, CA February 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Acting as the Vulnerability Program Manager, I am responsible for the design and implementation of a vulnerability management process with the purpose to detect and remediate vulnerabilities in a timely fashion to reduce the clients attack surface, reducing overall risk.  • Conduct Open-Source investigations; pre-employment background checks.  • Designate roles and responsibilities of team to ensure efficiency and deadlines are met.  • Creation or updating security policies to meet requirements based off SANS, NIST, or CIS standards and meet compliance.  • Configuration of assessment tools, SQL databases, and scheduling.  • Responsible for user awareness courses; quarterly classroom type sessions teaching about best practices.  • Apply corrective actions needed to mitigate security vulnerabilities from assessment results  • Built and maintain company website.  • Responsible for interviewing, hiring and training of new team members.  • Act as escalation point for any technical / non-technical issues. Information Security Engineer LAM Research - Livermore, CA August 2017 to January 2018 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for an enterprise-wide anti-virus replacement project implementation for roughly 1000 servers and 15,000 workstations.  • Confirm program objectives and specifications by testing new programs; comparing programs with established standards  • Improve existing programs by reviewing objectives and specifications; evaluating proposed changes; recommending changes  • Evaluate vendor-supplied software by studying user objectives; testing software compatibility with existing hardware and programs.  • Evaluates enhancements by studying work load and capacity of computer system.  • Maximizes use of hardware and software by training users; interpreting instructions; answering questions.  • Daily monitoring of anti-virus server; create global exclusions list in an implicit "deny all" environment; monitor logs for false-positive detection. Information Security Analyst, Windows & Linux Server Administrator ASM Research - Fairfax, VA May 2016 to August 2017 in support of the U.S. Department Of Veterans Affairs, Palo Alto Health Care System    Responsibilities:  • Implement patches and corrective actions needed to mitigate security risks and vulnerabilities from Nessus scan results.  • IT security audits; tasked with investigating possible system / unauthorized access events.  • Implement IT policies, procedures and system controls to mitigate security risks; Active directory security groups, group policy objects; access controls for data center; configured Kippo honey pot.  • Identify any IT related deficiencies based on scan results or other IT assessment tests or techniques as part of a gap analysis  • Work with Windows Server team on server commissions, decommissions and configurations. Helped streamline commissioning process, decommission process and data retention.  • Racking and un-racking of servers  • Sole Linux administrator on team - Worked in collaboration with other teams to do RedHat Linux Server configurations; created bash scripts as needed for custom tasks.  • Monitoring of systems when performance issues reported by system owners using htop  • Reviewing of system log files for any discrepancies  • Setting IP information to make sure no conflicts will occur  • Reporting root-causes and fixes to system owners as well as documenting incidents  • on-boarding presentation of best security practices for new team members; increase awareness through both awareness training and workshops  • Review existing policies; recommend changes based off NiST and HIPPA standards. Systems Administrator Sanford Solutions - Milpitas, CA April 2015 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  • Lead Systems Administrator for a small IT consulting company offering Desktop, Service Desk and cloud solutions in Windows-based environments.  • Set up and manage companies' domain controller, DNS server, Active Directory structure, user management and permissions.  • Manage domain GPOs.  • Created and maintain companies Windows 7 image.  • Responsible for all technical issues that arise within environment.  • Provided communication to staff regarding root cause and fixes / workarounds for both technical and non-technical issues.  • Trained staff how to answer inquiries in an efficient, professional manner.  • Created and maintain company website using WordPress.  • Responsible for all sales and marketing.  • Escalation point for staff in regards to technical and non-technical issues.  • Thoroughly tested fixes to make sure problem(s) had been fixed  • Analyzed trends to prevent future issues.  • Researching new products / technologies before deployment IT Consultant to Pulse Secure Taos Mountain December 2014 to February 2015 Systems Engineer    Responsibilities:  • Working under the Director of IT, I built and deployed a windows 7 image for 100 users local and remote using Clonezilla running on Dell hardware.  • Created detailed documentation on steps performed to deploy image as well as any irregularities found.  • Testing of all configurations and application software prior to deployment.  • Set up a samba share for the company to use for deployments and image storage.  • Other duties as assigned Systems Administrator Volition Hosting - Milpitas, CA March 2013 to February 2015 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for builds and customizations of servers in a Linux environment running Ubuntu Server.  • Monitoring of technical issues via email.  • Responsible for account creations.  • Created Standard Operations Procedures (SOP) for server builds.  • Provided communication to staff regarding root cause and fixes / workarounds for both technical and non-technical issues.  • Trained staff how to answer inquiries in an efficient, professional manner.  • Created and maintained knowledgebase.  • Was escalation point for staff in regards to any issues that arise within the environment.  • Thoroughly tested fixes to make sure problem(s) had been fixed  • Analyzed trends to prevent future issues  • Responsible for setting up monthly events for customers  • Developed and maintained FAQ for customers regarding common problems  • Monitoring of system logs for irregularities  • Researching new products / technologies before deployment IT Consultant AgreeYa Solutions March 2014 to November 2014 to San Mateo Medical Center  Systems Engineer    Responsibilities:  • Provide Teir II support for a demanding hospital environment for 2000 employees including physicians and executives running a mixture of Dell and IBM hardware where my main focus was customer impact and satisfaction.  • Provide support for all remote medical clinics throughout the county.  • Deployed and maintained system-wide settings through GPOs.  • User and access management via Active Directory security groups.  • Encrypt all laptops in the field using Mcaffee Encryption.  • Monitor trouble tickets via ServiceNow ticketing system.  • Virus / malware / spyware removals in which many had to be done manually without tools.  • Hardware break-fix and system deployments  • Remote configuration and management of virtual machines  • Documentation creation of anything new to the environment with great detail.  • IDF patching.  • Conference room management and troubleshooting.  • Managed and maintained all print servers.  • Helped update and maintain company image via Novell Imaging software  • VPN troubleshooting. Lead Helpdesk Administrator NeuroPace - Mountain View, CA February 2011 to November 2012 Responsibilities:  • Was responsible for managing all end-user issues in a windows 7 environment for 100 users both local and remote running on Dell hardware.  • Monitored trouble tickets via email and phone / voicemail and resolved all issues in a friendly, efficient manner.  • Communicated root cause of issues to users and IT staff.  • Revised many of their existing SOPs including hardware / software installs, new hire and termination process as well as security policies.  • Moved all users from Windows XP to Windows 7; built, maintained and deployed the companies Windows 7 image via KACE.  • Handled all virus / malware / spyware removals - many of which had to be done manually without tools  • Thoroughly documented and communicated any fixes that were new to the environment.  • Handled weekly offsite backup tape rotation.  • Managed exchange mailboxes based on department and title. Also monitored logs for any irregularities.  • Maintained and supported Shortel VoIP phones and mailboxes.  • Maintained and supported mobile / handheld devices (Blackberry, windows).  • Performed asset inventory of both desktop and laptops on a weekly basis.  • Handled imaging of new and retired systems using KACE and Acronis.  • Supported exchange, calendaring and video conferencing issues.  • Configuration of wireless routers (Linksys 802.11 G) for access throughout the environment.  • Supported and maintained a mixture of Canon, HP, and Sharp printers as well as maintaining print servers.  • Took part in a company move and directed IT moving staff.  • Other duties included resolving VPN connectivity issues (Cisco VPN Client), setting firewall rules / exceptions (Cisco 5000 series) and setting permissions on the local and server level. Technical Consultant Taos Mountain - San Jose, CA October 2007 to November 2012 Major Assignments listed below    Highlights:  • Provided technical leadership for small, medium and enterprise level companies.  • Created many company SOPs' for our clients.  • Sole employee in the company to receive multiple raises during salary freezes  • Three promotions in five years Help Desk Administrator Ciena Networks - San Jose, CA November 2010 to January 2011 Responsibilities:  • Supported trouble tickets for a desktop refresh of 500 users in a Windows XP environment on Dell Hardware.  • Handled any issues that occurred after new desktop or laptop was received in a prompt and courteous manner.  • Monitored ticketing system and resolved issues within set SLA  • Worked very closely with Ciena's IT staff to communicate root cause and fixes.  • Escalated issues when needed to appropriate team. Help Desk Administrator Brocade Communications - San Jose, CA May 2010 to October 2010 Responsibilities:  • Was lead technician for a company move; handled all issues as a result of moving locations via ticketing system.  • Handled any issue(s) users encountered with Everdream backup software.  • Worked very closely with desk-side team to resolve trouble tickets.  • Was point of contact for remote support issues.  • Revised exiting documentation to ensure process efficiency.  • Various projects as assigned. Help Desk Administrator XenoPort - Santa Clara, CA January 2009 to May 2010 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for daily monitoring of performance and weekly metric reporting to ensure SLA times were met in a very demanding pharmaceutical company.  • Contributed in creating Standard Operating Procedures for software installs, new hire and termination process.  • Project planning with other departments within IT on new deployments and upgrades where the main focus was customer impact.  • Provided outstanding communication regarding root cause analysis and solutions to customers, as well as company notice of service outages.  • Performed routine asset inventory of servers, desktops and laptops.  • Trained help desk department on answering and resolving incoming client requests as well as setting a high standard for customer service for the rest of the team to follow.  • Responsible for supporting email, calendaring, video and telecommunications as well as mobile / handheld devices (Palm, Blackberry and Windows devices).  • Improved existing documentation.  • Helped develop and maintain intranet content for end users. Education Associate in Applied Science degree in Network Security Heald College 2008