Information Security Support Analyst Information <span class="hl">Security</span> Support <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Identity Access Management Security Support Analyst Houston, TX Infrastructure “IAM Security Support Analyst” who specializes in the administration and management of user resources utilizing various IAM security tools for authentication, authorization and access control. Single Sign-on, MFA, PAM, identity problem solving, process improvement, data integrity/ security, and exceptional customer service are a few services I heavily focus on. I also Supported the RISK and Cyber teams in the assessment of security practices, information security request and technical risk assessments. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Information Security Support Analyst AIG June 2014 to October 2018 • Monitored compliance for the RISK team for Information Security Policies and Procedures discrepancies.  • Assisted the RISK security team with verification of any DLP security breaches.  • Evaluated and maintained systems and procedures to safeguard internal information systems and networks.  • Completed audits of system security to ensure compliance with governmental security policies.  • Administered security, including but not limited to; add/change/delete user accounts, add/change/delete group profiles, maintain access lists and security database, wrote and reviewed policies/procedures, created and reviewed security reports.  • Provided on-call support, as needed, for computer hardware, software, user and data security issues.  • Assisted with the configuration of Microsoft Active Directory Architecture, and group Policy Management.  • Provision/de-provision identities, authenticate them, and authorize their access to resources.  • Assessed risks, threats and vulnerabilities associated within the architecture and design of new and current applications, O/S and complex network infrastructure, including information at rest and in transit.  • Investigated and responded to possible threats to Information Systems by analyzing results produced by security monitoring and vulnerability assessment tools.  • Worked within a service desk ticket system to manage day to day activities.  • Provided support as required to requests for information for the IT HIPPA Audit, SOX, SSAE16, SSA18 Controls testing, Cyber Security Assessments, and other audit support activities. IT Systems Administrator Daniel Measurement & Control, Inc - Houston, TX June 2005 to March 2014 • Setup and implemented enterprise monitoring with Solar Winds application to calculate capacity usage for future server upgrades.  • Trained new helpdesk personnel in servicing 450+ user's daily trouble tickets    IT Systems Administrator - ~~~~~~  • Assisted in Data Center relocation by reconfiguration of network instrumentation and policies, saving the company over $2 million through the system upgrade.  • Installed mobile device application to track and monitor customer usage, saving time, money, and employee downtime.  • Allowed global users to have access to information by maintaining a Citrix server farm environment, saving remote access costs.  • Setup and implemented enterprise monitoring with Solar Winds application to calculate capacity usage for future server upgrades.  • Administered company cellular and mobile devices including order management, replacements, usage monitoring and bill auditing.  • Directed the testing and implementation project of LANDesk Management Suite, whose asset management component generated a software license report that substantially improved budgeting procedures.  • Provided daily backup of servers, engineering workstations and critical computer systems with Symantec backup executive application. Desktop Support Analyst Daniel Measurement & Control, Inc - Houston, TX September 2001 to June 2005 • Upgraded old computer systems to Microsoft Windows operating system.  • Eliminated downtime due to incompatibility of older versions of applications.  • Upgraded company database system form Novell to Microsoft Access.  • Installed, upgraded, supported and troubleshot Windows Operating Systems and Microsoft Office suite, and other applications as assigned.  • Maximized network performance by stabilizing, expanding, and protecting the client network and PC environment.  • Maintained operability of systems by completing preventive maintenance requirements and tests by troubleshooting, maintaining equipment inventories, and evaluating new equipment. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering Technology University of Houston - Houston, TX Skills Security (5 years), Active Directory (10+ years), Microsoft Office (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses MCSE VMWare VCA-DCV SANS GIAC: GCIH