Cybersecurity Program Delivery Assurance Manager/Head Cybersecurity Program Delivery Assurance Manager/Head Cybersecurity Program Delivery Assurance Manager/Head - Wipro Technologies Marlton, NJ Cyber security technology expert with executive and hands on experience in handling multi-million dollar programs. Strong record of success in deploying robust IT security architecture and infrastructure. Documented ability to bring the benefits of IT to solve business issues while managing costs and risks.    Dynamic management career with strong leadership, consistent track record of excellence, problem-solving, planning, team-building and project management skills. Recruited, developed, motivated and retained diverse staff structuring them into teams that delivered results and savings. Full responsibility for return on investment (ROI) and managing multi-million dollar budgets. Proven record of department profitability and cost savings realized within various business enterprise settings.    Areas of Excellence  ? Information Security Project Management ? Team Motivation/Leadership ? Security Operations and Device Management  ? Service Delivery Management ? Staff Management and Team Builder ? Web Security  ? High-Impact Presentation ? Delivery Excellence ? IDS/IPS  ? Strategic Analysis and Internal Consulting ? Technology Architecture and Integration ? Privileged Identity Management Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Cybersecurity Program Delivery Assurance Manager/Head Wipro Technologies September 2015 to Present New Jersey USA  Duration: September 2015 till Present  Client: Confidential (U.S.-based international mass media company and is the largest broadcasting and Cable Company under Fortune 50)  Role: Cybersecurity Program Delivery Assurance Manager/Head - Managed Services  Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for handling one of the largest managed security service program worth $18Mn consisting a headcount of 170+ members, 10 Program Managers  ? Designed and implemented transformation program that helped in streamlining the structure to efficiently support customer for their business requirements.  ? Responsible for Quarterly and Monthly Business review meetings  ? Brought efficiencies through driving hyper-automation programs through Artificial intelligence and cognitive computing.  ? Monitored and controlled overall Program cost  ? Monitored the Program PPC (Per Person Cost) across work streams and implement actions to control / meet specified targets  ? Developed, maintained and tracked resource loading sheet across all work streams  ? Tracked and coordinated with staffing team and other support functions for ramp-up and ramp-down of the resources as per the plan  ? Tracked and reported on regular basis resource fulfillment status, planned vs actual Headcount work stream wise, month wise, location wise and band wise  ? Developed and ensured adherence of the process for up-keep of the data, version control (configuration management) and establish this as single source for information distribution to stakeholders (internal and external)  ? Analyzed the Customer Satisfaction Survey feedback, determine the actions, implement and inform customer accordingly  ? Manage all reported issues and escalations to client's satisfaction  ? Conducted periodic audits (internal/external) and coordinate with the various support functions with-in Wipro to resolve any non-compliance issue  ? Identified and implemented actions to ensure contractual compliance for information security Manager, Security Infrastructure Technology Engineering & Operations Wipro Technologies March 2013 to August 2015 New Jersey USA  Duration: March 2013 to August 2015  Client: Confidential (U.S.-based international mass media company and is the largest broadcasting and Cable Company under Fortune 50)  Role: Manager, Security Infrastructure Technology Engineering & Operations  Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for managing $4 million project with responsibility for the overall execution of tactical and strategic security control frameworks with delivery excellence  ? Directs, manages, plans and administers the operational and administrative activities of Security Infrastructure Technology Engineering & Operations  ? Manage a world class Security Operations Center Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 with a staffing of 44 onsite and offshore associates  ? Manage the operations on tools such as Firewalls including Cisco ASA, Checkpoint, Juniper SRX, Enterprise Monitoring using Science logic EM7, Lancope, Websense, Sourcefire, Aruba Remote Access VPN, Fire Eye, Gigamon, Arbor, Indeni, AAA (Free RADIUS, TACACS+ and OpenLDAP) and in-house tools  ? Developed a technically competent, proactive, customer-service oriented, high-performance team.  ? Created teams that are technically perceptive and have a solid understanding of business processes  ? Maintained oversight and coordinated the day-to-day operations of the information security device operations and engineering  ? Developed and fostered a culture of responsive customer oriented services and internal accountability.  ? Taught and mentored Leads and team members on how to apply standards, tools, and methodologies while delivering high quality business focused customer service.  ? Provided technical expertise on systems, market trends, technology directions, and product directions.  ? Established performance measures to ensure project managers and staff are accountable and compliant in project planning, risk and issue management, processes and procedures, and change management.  ? Liaised with customers with regards to information security device operations and management  ? Manage a team responsible for the development, implementation, and maintenance of a division-wide information security device management program that ensures information assets, intellectual property and critical IT infrastructure are adequately protected.  ? Proactively work with business partners and other senior leaders to foster an appropriate security posture based on business needs Sr. Security Analyst An American retail business company - Bloomington, MN November 2010 to March 2013 Role: Sr. Security Analyst  Responsibilities:  ? Database Audit(Imperva Secure sphere)  • Perform implementation of Database audit tool  • Perform installation of agents on Windows and Unix platform  • Configure agents to collect database related activity logs  • Perform PCI and SOX compliance scanning on agentless environment for Oracle and MS SQL Database on Security configuration related scans and user access review scans  • Co-ordinate with multiple teams to complete the Imperva Secure sphere Database audit tool implementation  • Working with Audit team for different set of scanning based on the PCI and SOX requirements.  • Work with Security Operations team to integrate the database audit tool to send the required set of data to SIEM tool.  • Documentation of process, procedures, architecture related to Imperva Database Audit project.  ? Bluecoat Proxy  • Define procedures, processes and contact information with customer  • Manage and Maintain Bluecoat ProxySG Device  • Vendor management and policy re-categorization  • Daily health checking  • Investigate issues related to URL filtering, Solution discovery, Testing and validation of solutions and deploy it to production environment  • Deploy solution into production environment  ? Password Vault Administration(Cyber Ark Password Vault)  • Create safe based on the request from different teams  • Adding Unix/Windows/Mainframes/Oracle/MS SQL/Teradata non user accounts in Safes  • Create or update policies based on the requirements from different teams.  • Troubleshooting Password Vault device or configuration related issues.  • Create or update knowledge and process documents as and when required.  • Participate weekly meetings with client on the status of the project.  • Lock/Unlock accounts, investigate on user suspended issues  • Troubleshooting on Password access related issues for Non user account IDs Security Administrator Wipro Technologies - Bengaluru, Karnataka November 2008 to October 2010 Bangalore India  Duration: November 2008 to October 2010    Client: One of the major Retail and Investment Bank in Europe  Role: Security Administrator  Responsibilities:  ? Managed a team of 7 members  ? Analyze and improve the skills of team members.  ? Attend weekly meetings with clients  ? Developed several procedures to improve performance.  ? Handled level 1 support for Bluecoat  ? Carried out troubleshooting on Cisco switches and routers.  ? Performed BGP configurations and troubleshooting  ? Handled network related incidents and configurations of switches and routers remotely.  ? Weekly reporting to client and also to Wipro Service Delivery team. IT Security Analyst IBM India Private Limited - Bengaluru, Karnataka January 2007 to November 2008 Bangalore India  Duration: January 2007 to November 2008  Client: Supported 14 Global customers of IBM who are in Fortune 500, 100 and 50  Role: IT Security Analyst  Responsibilities:  ? Work in line with IBM's On Demand business strategy by providing support to 14 Global organizations with URL Filtering solutions  ? Provided support as an SME for Websense, Surf Control, Smart filter and Bluecoat  ? Responsibilities included implementation and maintenance of the URL Filtering Policy, Reporting and Filtering servers.  ? Provide L1, L2, L3 support which included direct interaction with clients.  ? Create and maintain run book for process and procedures related to URL Filtering infrastructure per customer  ? Test and Validate solution functionality.  ? Deploy solution into production environment.  ? Perform URL Filter changes.  ? Providing recommendations on architecture and changes.  ? Report generation and Troubleshooting.  ? Perform Investigations Security Engineer India's Central Banking Institution, which controls the monetary policy in India - Mumbai, Maharashtra June 2006 to December 2006 Jainam Technologies, Mumbai, India  Duration: June 2006 to December 2006  Client: India's Central Banking Institution, which controls the monetary policy in India  Role: Security Engineer  Responsibilities:  ? Successfully Implemented Symantec Antivirus Enterprise Edition in three locations (Bangalore, Kerala, Chennai).  ? Added more than 500 clients to the Administration Server and managed through console.  ? Upgraded more than 300 clients who were using the old version of Symantec.  ? Implemented Symantec Mail Security on Microsoft Exchange server.  ? Trained an engineer on the technologies on each location.  ? Updating virus definition from Symantec Antivirus Management Server.  ? Ensuring customer satisfaction via interaction at senior level to maintain the customers trust in the network and the company.  ? Working with team in achieving objectives and deadlines    Client: An Indian multinational bank based in Bangalore, with retail, wholesale, and private banking platforms  Role: Security Engineer  Responsibilities:  ? Successfully Implemented Symantec Critical System Protection  ? Installed the agents in servers of the environment with flavors such as AIX, Solaris, Linux and Windows.  ? Whitelisting Policy implementation based on business cases  ? Maintenance and optimization of policies based on use cases  ? Development of operational guidelines and best practices  ? Educated the Information Security Advisors in the bank on the working and maintenance of the software and server.  ? Trained an engineer for the location.