Client Services Technician Client Services Technician Client Services Technician - City of San Antonio San Antonio, TX College educated with 8 years' experience working in IT and 10 plus years' Customer Relations. In addition strives to exceed professional and personal goals while maintaining strong written/verbal communication skills. Work Experience Client Services Technician City of San Antonio February 2019 to Present • Various troubleshooting ranged from computer hardware, software, related to Coban issues in the Police vehicles.  • Assisting in registering 2FA security access cards to police personnel.  • Responded to Tier II support requests via multiple sources such as phone, email, and remote assistance.  • Various troubleshooting ranged from computer hardware, software, phone, printer, network, and other external peripheral equipment related issues.  • Configured and installed desktop PCs, telephones, peripheral equipment, laptops and other mobile devices. Follows established procedures for performing configuration changes, updates and upgrades. Assists in the deployment of new images, software/hardware upgrades and fixes.  • Traced back cat lines to switches for jack activation, line activity verification, or line port transferal. Authenticated tone on analog lines associated to old phones or credit card machines.  • Generated work orders to self or assignment to the appropriate IT group for further analysis.  • Vendor Support and Management: Contacted vendor support in regards to advanced third party software and hardware concerns.  • Assisted in training new technicians, contractors, and summer interns in day to day procedures and technical skills.  • Built client relationships by interacting with customers in a courteous and professional manner on a daily basis. Applications Solutions Analyst City of San Antonio June 2017 to February 2019 • Project Planning and Strategy: Participates in the project planning process with clients, business analysts and team members.  • Technical Requirements and Design: Organizes and documents business and technical requirements.  • Assists in the deployment of new modules, upgrades, and fixes. Develops or modifies software application modules using disciplined development processes.  • Documents functions and changes to new or modified modules and test activities/results.  • Conducts unit testing of system enhancements, modifications, applications updates, fixes, and upgrades to ensure software meets vendor and client specifications. Implements integration plans and participates in integration testing.  • Provides ongoing maintenance of applications. Provides Tier II (application) support, troubleshoots existing information systems to identify errors or deficiencies and develops solutions.  • Produces and analyzes customized data imports and extracts from system based on user requirements.  • Assists in the development of user guides and training documentation for manual and web enabled systems. Client Services Technician City of San Antonio (ITSD) June 2012 to June 2017 • Responded to Tier II support requests via multiple sources such as phone, email, and remote assistance.  • Various troubleshooting ranged from computer hardware, software, phone, printer, network, and other external peripheral equipment related issues.  • Configured and installed desktop PCs, telephones, peripheral equipment, laptops and other mobile devices. Follows established procedures for performing configuration changes, updates and upgrades. Assists in the deployment of new images, software/hardware upgrades and fixes.  • Traced back cat lines to switches for jack activation, line activity verification, or line port transferal. Authenticated tone on analog lines associated to old phones or credit card machines.  • Generated work orders to self or assignment to the appropriate IT group for further analysis.  • Vendor Support and Management: Contacted vendor support in regards to advanced third party software concerns.  • Assisted in training new technicians, contractors, and summer interns in day to day procedures and technical skills.  • Built client relationships by interacting with customers in a courteous and professional manner on a daily basis. Helpdesk Analyst Trinity University April 2011 to May 2012 • Provide first and second level desktop support requests via incoming emails, work orders, phone calls from faculty, staff and/ or students. Requests related to: currently support hardware and Windows and/or Macintosh operating systems and their related applications; user account maintenance in Active Directory of new/old accounts; general knowledge of other applications used on campus. Support to include: troubleshooting, training users via telephone, email, and remote support or in person.  • Proficient in technical software for desktop support; able to analyze and troubleshoot a wide range of problem solving techniques including distinguishing issues relating to printers, WIFI, and telecommunications.  • Use School Dude (Ticketing System) to create work orders to self or appropriate ITS area technician or analyst for assigning second level support requests.  • Assist in supervising student workers with technical support requests and supervise and perform lab maintenance checks.  • Cooperates and collaborates with other employees in the spirit of teamwork and collegiality.  • Assists in training new clients services technicians in day to day procedures and technical skills. Security Enforcement Officer City of San Antonio (Aviation) October 2009 to April 2011 - City Budget Cut Transferal  • Communicates with dispatch using a two-way radio system, clears vehicles in lanes that congest or slow traffic, enforces various city ordinances pertaining to parking and issuing citations.  • Assist the public with general inquiries pertaining to the airport.  • Checks validation of all employee badge I.D.'s. and inspects vehicles entering airfield.  • Responds immediately to alarms due to Homeland Security Regulations. Department Systems Aide City of San Antonio (Library) February 2006 to September 2009 • Provided instruction on Internet usage, downloading files, Microsoft products such as Word, Outlook, also taught general computer, scanner, and printer operation use to first time users.  • Tier 1 support for all workstations and peripherals at site (software and hardware based), face to face, or email response, escalated proper issues through web based ticketing system when needed.  • Instructed new employees on how to use various library database systems.  • Assisted the front desk attendants with clerical support, general inquiries, cash handling, place items on hold, cleared charge, time sheets, and maintained statistics for superiors. NAC Agent, Numara Track It Cisco IT SKILL SET AND SUPPORT  Hardware: PCs/Macs/ Laptops, iPad, Printer, Scanner, and Fax  Operating Systems: XP, Vista, Windows 7, Windows 2010, and Mac OS X Snow Leopard  Applications: MS Office 2003-2016. Outlook, Excel, Publisher, Yahoo, Gmail, Windows Remote Access, Sophos Anti-virus, Active Directory Users and Computers, Datatel UI, Cisco NAC Agent, Numara Track It, SchoolDude, Vmware VC, VDI, Remedy Client, Chameleon, ActiveNet, Netsmart Insight, Starlims, Faster Win 6.9, Bomgar (Remote), Proteus, Lansweeper Network Inventory, PDQ Deploy 12, Photoshop CS5, Corel Painter X, Sketchbook Pro, some SQL, and Clip Studio Paint Pro. Education Bachelor Fine Art, University of Texas - San Antonio, TX Skills UI, ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CHAMELEON, CISCO, REMOTE ACCESS, Tech Support, Help Desk, Call Center, Fast Food, Customer Service