Network Security Engineer (Contract: IBM) Network <span class="hl">Security</span> Engineer (Contract: IBM) Star, ID IT Specialist with 15+ years of professional experience in key IT roles as System Security Engineer, Systems Analyst, Systems Administration, Systems Engineer, Network Administration, Network Engineer, IT Manager, IT Business Consultant and many other roles. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Security Engineer (Contract: IBM) INTERVISE CONSULTANTS - Remote April 2019 to Present ·   Installed, configured, tested, and supported BigFix, Guardium, Qradar and other security and vulnerability management tools.  ·   Provided knowledge transfer of SEIM to IBM personnel and other supporting technical staff.  ·   Assisted in design and implementation of Security Environment, deploying BigFix, Guardium, Qradar in VPC Cloud.  IT Systems Administrator (Contract: Idaho Transportation Department) TEKsystems - Boise, ID September 2018 to April 2019 ·   Systems Administrator supporting and maintaining server infrastructure on 300+ Government Servers.   ·   Primary contact for TFS Migration Project, Migrating TFS 2010 to TFS 2018. Established CI/CD process for development.   ·   Maintained and supported servers in an SDLC Environment supporting Test, Development, Staging, UAT and Production environments. Senior Remote Office 365 Support Engineer (Contract: Microsoft) EXPERSIS - Remote May 2018 to August 2018 ·   Assisted customer in planning, deploying, configuring, migrating, managing and supporting legacy, modern and cloud Microsoft Office Suites (Outlook/Word/Excel/OneNote/PowerPoint/Visio/OneDrive/Project, etc.) in a PC or Mac/Apple environment.  ·   Supporting customer(s) in planning, deployment and management of Microsoft Office 365 workloads (Exchange Online, SharePoint Online, Skype for Business, Yammer, OneDrive for Business, Microsoft Teams) in a small business or enterprise environment.  ·   Communicated simply, effective, and in a non-technical manner to customers who do not have a technical background.  ·   Server & network administration troubleshooting and support.  ·   Responsible for assessment, planning, design, testing, and technical documentation for the implementation, support, and migration of enterprise messaging, and collaboration toolsets to Office 365  ·   Experience migrating from Exchange and other email platforms to O365 including hybrid environments.  ·   Supporting services Skype for business integration (features including PSTN), and OneDrive for business sync and profile management.  ·   Supporting Microsoft Intune and mobile device management and configuration(s). Senior Remote Systems/Infrastructure Engineer (Contract: Itron) TEKsystems - Remote October 2017 to March 2018 ·   Engineered and implemented Microsoft cloud servers (Domain Controllers, Certification servers, etc.) for Itron which offers Smart Grid Technology Solutions (gas, water, electricity) to customers.  ·   Created technical documentation for installation/cloud configuration process which consolidated from 180 pages to 110 with screenshots.   ·   Configured, managed, and maintained physical/virtual infrastructures using AWS, Azure, Google Cloud, VMWare and Hyper-V.  ·   Supported key internet functions such as DNS, DHCP, routing, web servers, browsers, and email. System Engineer V (Contract: Bank of America) Insight Global - Remote January 2017 to September 2017 • Installation, configuration, and supported IBM BigFix and Guardium systems for Bank of America global network.  • Provide knowledge transfer of SEIM from AWS and other platforms to IBM personnel.  Owner/Senior IT Business Consultant Elite Computers - Kalispell, MT January 2006 to August 2017 • Primary Systems Administrator to clients and tasks included engineered and implemented Active Directory and Group Policies, implemented and monitored Microsoft Exchange, and many other system(s), networking and IT consulting services.  • Engineered, implemented and monitored customers/clients networking devices. (Cisco, Linksys, Net GEAR, Ubiquity, Sonicwall).  • Created local IT help desk for a state-wide healthcare provider by implementing remote management (Screenconnect) and ticketing system (Spiceworks) for instant support and ticket management to state locations. Data Security Analyst Vodafone - Kalispell, MT December 2014 to December 2016 • Supported, maintained IBM BigFix, and Guardium systems for Bank of America global network to ensure audit and security compliance.  • Managed software monitoring, installation, and configuration on over 8000, software taps (S-Taps) in worldwide SDLC environment supporting Test, Development, Pre-Production and Production Environments.  • Big Data Analysis and configuration/troubleshooting to over 1000 devices which included Aggregators, Collectors and Central Managers.  • Managed over 30+ break/fix tickets assigned to our group, updated daily to meet SLA.  • Created spreadsheet that included all environment information in one workbook, which improved ticket turnaround time by 60 minutes. Senior IT Systems Administrator/ IT Business Consultant MontanaSky Networks - Kalispell, MT April 2014 to December 2014 • Senior systems administrator for Microsoft server/clients system in small, medium and large environments.  • Engineered, implemented and maintained remote support solution (ScreenConnect) for instant technical support.  • Implemented monitoring system (Centrastage) that collected system events and emailed support if those alerts exceeded the set thresholds. Trained customers on how to submit support tickets through the Centrastage system.  • IT Business consultant for local banks and tasks included Active Directory Management, Group Policy creation/implementation.  • Implemented GPOs for folder redirection, printer mapping, and access control to company file shares.  • Engineered, implemented and monitored security measures for the protection of computer systems, networks and information.  • Lead consultant for local middle school. Projects included: implementing ticketing system (Spiceworks), implementing GPO roaming profiles, Google Docs setup, and Mobile Device Management System (Lightspeed).  • Lead consultant for local dentist offices. Tasks included Active Directory Management, Group Policy management and configuration, networking solutions, image management system (Dolphin), implemented SEIM, security and vulnerability management tools. Senior IT Business Consultant MDI Verify - Kalispell, MT September 2013 to March 2014 • Same job duties and functionality as Merlin Information Systems/TLOxp. Company wasrestructured as part of a merger with TLOxp. Technical Writer Vubiquity - Kalispell, MT May 2013 to March 2014 • Documented the design and intent of the systems architecture to be easily used by project stakeholders, manager, and systems engineers.  • Worked with architects to document specific system perspectives including security, deployment, component, development standards, and sequence/interaction diagrams.  • Worked collaboratively with product managers to document overall platform vision and roadmap. Senior IT Systems Administrator/ IT Business Consultant A Plus Health Care, INC - Kalispell, MT May 2013 to March 2014 • Provided consultation on process/technology improvements that would increase value to the customers' business process.  • Implemented and maintained remote support solution (ScreenConnect) for the company and configured client's systems. This enabled the company to offer instant support remotely to clients, at all the offices across the state of Montana.  • Onsite Linux system administrator, managing and monitoring all systems.  • Engineered, implemented and monitored security measures for the protection of computer systems, networks and information.  • Planned, implemented and managed ticketing system (Spiceworks) for company.  • Maintained and supported McKesson CRM system. IT Operations Manager TLOXP (FORMERLY MERLIN INFORMATION SYSTEMS) - Kalispell, MT February 2012 to September 2013 • Lead virtualization project, which consolidated 200 physical servers to 50 Microsoft Hyper-V VMs on 8 Hypervisors.  • Worked supporting SDLC environment with Test, Development, and Production Environments.  • Managed, implemented, and maintained Active Directory for proper application, security and share access for end users.  • Created IT Asset/Ticket Management System (Spiceworks) and configured SNMP alerts to track alerts and life cycle of equipment.  • Secured servers for PCI Audit compliance by implementing SEIM, security and vulnerability management tools (Nagios, OSSEC and Dell OME) in the data center.  • Engineered, implemented and monitored Cisco VPN policy to ensure all traffic to route through proxy server.  • Upgraded McAfee EPO Antivirus system and integrated management/installation with Active Directory Group Policies.  • Build/configured Windows Software Update System and integrated client installation/management through Group Policy.  • Managed data center networking infrastructure (firewalls, VPN, switches, etc.). Collaborated with network team to remove Spanning Tree Protocol in the data center which reduced latency from over 300 milliseconds to fewer than 10 milliseconds. Help Desk Specialist Aon National Flood Services - Kalispell, MT September 2011 to November 2011   • Managed user configuration/access on AS400.    • Received, logged and managed IT support tickets.    • Managed Active Directory user management. Tasks included giving users proper group access, password resets, account unlocks, etc.…    • Managed project to clean out old entries in Avaya phone system to optimize system for best performance. Responsibilities included user creating/configuration and user removal from the Avaya system.     • Fielded daily calls on issues with Nautilus Workflow system. Collaborated with System Engineer to resolve workflow issues.  Information Technology Manager, Senior IT Systems Administrator Total Label USA - Whitefish, MT May 2006 to July 2011 • Served as Network Administrator, Systems Administrator, Systems Analyst, Network Analyst and Desktop Support Specialist.  • Planned and implemented relocation of IT assets from old 20,000 square foot to new 60,000 square foot building.  • Engineered, implemented, and configured file server which was crucial to the workflow of the company business process.  • Installed Hyper-V hypervisor to virtualize the company's physical server's footprint from 5 physical servers to 2 virtual servers. This project saved company considerable costs (cooling, electrical costs server management, etc.) to be allocated to other business functions.  • Engineered, implemented and managed company email on Microsoft Exchange server.  • Implemented external company website. Tasks included setting up DNS records, web server configuration and FTP access.  • Installed, configured and managed Cisco Switches and SonicWALL wireless router/firewall network devices.  • Planned, implemented and maintained telecommunications systems (Nortel, Avaya, Shoretel, Polycom).  • Provided desktop/application support and management in an ecosystem that included Apple, Windows and Linux operating systems. Senior Help Desk Specialist Micron - Boise, ID August 2004 to December 2005 • Key team member in Active Directory user management, Avaya user support and other Windows, Linux, Apple desktop support issues.  • Created Active Directory templates and other support tools for faster ticket resolution Education Associates Degree in Management Information Systems Flathead Valley Community College - Kalispell, MT 2000 Skills Active Directory (10+ years), DNS (10+ years), Exchange (10+ years), Security (10+ years), Vmware (10+ years), firewalls (10+ years), Cisco (9 years), Office Applications (10+ years), Network Administration (10+ years), Network Management (10+ years), Network Security (10+ years), Troubleshooting (10+ years), Linux (10+ years), Switches (10+ years), System Admin (10+ years), System Administrator (10+ years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/chris-stetson-it Assessments Email — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively compose and organize email messages. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/hlqnrzzm88nzsoof Project Management Skills: Time Management — Proficient July 2019 Prioritizing and allocating time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/sq7fibuj6aeq6f2i Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.