Purchasing Agent Purchasing Agent Purchasing Agent Bolivar, OH Work Experience Purchasing Agent BABCOCK & WILCOX - Copley, OH 2015 to 2019 Copley, OH 2015 to 2019  Global leader in advanced energy and environmental technologies / services for power and industrial markets.    Purchasing Agent  Placed purchase orders, of complex nature, with suppliers within specific dollar limits following established Purchasing procedures.  • Conferred with suppliers concerning RFQs and deliveries, expedited to meet company requirements or customer schedules. Maintained a 95% on-time ship rate.  • Expedited suppliers to ensure timely submittals of required documentation (for example: quality test reports, parts drawings, schedules, NAFTA certificates, etc.). Worked with project team to resolve supplier discrepancies.  • Performed various purchasing functions including inputting receipts, processing amendments, and maintaining purchase orders.  • Interfaced with Scheduling, Project Management, Transportation, Buyers, and Suppliers to ensure PO's were correct, and communicate updates and changes.  • Compiled information and required documentation to prepare quotes and purchase orders.  • Assisted in processing of invoices by verifying material billed vs. purchase order information, interfaced with accounting, project managers, and suppliers on discrepancies.  • Authorized to release material for shipment from suppliers to maintain schedules.  • Created reports required by project teams to identify past performance of vendors. Purchasing Specialist SAFETY RESOURCES COMPANY OF OHIO - Canton, OH 2011 to 2015 Canton, OH 2011 to 2015  Assist in the creation and implementation of practical solutions to health and safety hazards in the workplace.    Purchasing Specialist  Managed purchasing process and all supplier relationships. Maintained inventory and promoted the retail and equipment rental sales for construction and fall protection.  • Increased retail sales the first year by 30%.  • Negotiated pricing and credit terms with existing and new vendors resulting in savings to the company.  • Computed, prepared and issued purchase orders for internal and external customers.  • Prepared and submitted quotes to external customers and provided them with status of orders.  • Provided validation of procurement spend and subsequent sales profit to CEO.  • Updated company database with all new SKU numbers, prices, descriptions and vendors. Global IT Security Analyst and ACF2 Administrator 2006 to 2012 Utilized MicroSoft Active Directory, BAAN, and Oracle to perform revocation / provocation duties for all associate access to systems and network devices while complying with HR and SOX regulations.  • Led SharePoint project roll out for Supplier Hub and Work Force Automation to provide self-service access system and equipment specifications to suppliers.  • Performed revocation / provocation duties within the rules and resources of the ACF2 Mainframe environment in conjunction with System Administrators, Analysts, and Programmers.  • Analyzed and processed log reports for system access and validation to ensure accurate permissions were provided.  • Led all restricted Supplier SharePoint hub permission provisioning in collaboration with Web Developers to ensure suppliers and sales workforce had accurate permissions and authorizations. RemoteTeller brand systems and the Express Delivery XT teller assist system DIEBOLD INCORPORATED - North Canton, OH 1997 to 2011 North Canton, OH 1997 to 2011  Offers self-service solutions that include ATMs, outsourcing, RemoteTeller brand systems and the Express Delivery XT teller assist system. Associate System Support Specialist, Level 2 1997 to 2006 Efficiently preformed user operational, networking, technical and hardware support for desktop/laptop PC's running Win98, NT, 2000 and XP via telephone, pc remote tools, email and internet/intranet for associates.  • Developed and maintained helpdesk knowledge base intranet site while working with other departments during development of Workforce Automation Project.  • Assisted in the development and training of the outsourced Level 1 helpdesk located in Rochester, NY.    Previous High School Teacher, Adult Education Teacher and GED Exam Administrator at Alliance City School District. Education Bachelor of Science in Secondary Education Kent State University - Kent, OH