Vice President of Engineering Vice President of Engineering Vice President of Engineering Orlando, FL Driven by my passion and understanding of complex technical landscapes, I have spent years reverse engineering processes to build the roots for improvement in any business scenario. My unique recipe for process improvement and the ability to build high-performing teams has positioned me as a formidable force for positive change in the industry. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Vice President of Engineering SIDEARM Sports - Sanford, FL November 2018 to Present • Work closely with the President, COO, and other leaders in implementing new technologies and improving existing technologies including developing business and user requirements, product strategy, and technical designs.  • Provide leadership by example to ensure a consistent, high quality, and partner centric development ecosystem.  • Oversee front end, back end, mobile application, and over the top application development. Direct and oversee the engineering activities in the development, testing, release, and maintenance of multiple services.  • Responsible for the creation of and accountability of the process in which application development is managed. This includes all aspects of the lifecycle management of both projects and sustainment using tools like Jira, Git, Bamboo, and Code Pipeline in to facilitate continuous integration/deployment.  • Built an automated a new system from continuous integration, including release management and automated testing.  • Direct contributor and oversight to the primary datacenter rearchitecture and cosolidation resulting in an 81% savings. Advisory Committee Member for Cyber Security Education UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH FLORIDA - Tampa, FL March 2018 to Present • Serve as a volunteer on the advisory committee contributing to the development of the cybersecurity programs offered by University of South Florida Muma College of Business.  • Assisted in creating the Cyber Security for Executives program focusing on creating awareness about cyber threats and the effect it can have on a business.  • Review curriculum, equipment and class projects to establish a high-standards program. Director of Information Technology VICTORY TAILGATE - Orlando, FL September 2016 to November 2018 • Ability to Maintain focus, thrive, and prioritize in a fast paced high stressed environment delivering accurate on time goal completion.  • Directly manage a lean team of 7 developers, systems administrators, and helpdesk technicians to provide exceptional development, systems, network, end-user and technical support across three locations; supporting E-Commerce, Infrastructure, Manufacturing, Enterprise Resource Planning, Marketing, Sales, Finance, Human Resources, and Administration.  • Principal Program Management Responsibilities and contributions include e-commerce replatform and redesign, enhancing data storage, reporting, disaster recovery capabilities, and security. Implemented systems/configuration management automation, planned and executed moves to new facilities. Responsible for system architecture, data center design, office space networking, access control; HVAC, electrical and networking installation contractors.  • Contributing member of the migration from BMC Remedy to Service Now  • Increased operational effectiveness and established a solid hybrid cloud infrastructure poised for speed to perpetually remain ahead of the technology curve. Using proven teaming methodologies and leveraging technical relationships led to an advanced retail posture to protect and significantly enhance the operations of our enterprise. This culminated in a ninety percent reduction in critical system outages.  • Led initiatives in virtualization, continuous integration, continuous deployment, upgrading corporate networks, exchange server migration, network monitoring, reducing business risk and increasing efficiencies. Negotiated several significant contracts, upgrading bandwidth, improving security and manageability of company networks.  • Reduced project lifecycle timelines by at least 35% by improving development and testing process using core continuous deployment methodologies to both our on premise and cloud environments. Manager, Application Development CHICO'S FAS, INC September 2013 to August 2016 • Responsible for the creation of and accountability of the process in which application development was managed throughout Chico's FAS, Inc. This includes all aspects of the lifecycle management of both projects and sustainment using tools like Jira, Subversion, Crucible/Fisheye, Bamboo, and Code Pipeline in AWS to facilitate continuous integration/deployment.  • Directed, managed, and delivered projects ensuring high quality front and backend development for applications and features for the multiple brand ecommerce sites, call center systems, store systems POS and mobile applications as well as several other applications across Chico's FAS, Inc.  • Responsible for assisting in the overall architectural design of the Chico's FAS E-Commerce infrastructure at all levels from Development and QA through Production and Disaster Recovery.  • Responsible for the design and development of Chico's and White House Black Market digital signage  • Directly managed 27 in-house developers, 4 Project Managers, 3 Business Analysts, 2 DBA's, and 3 Systems Administrators as well as sole responsibility for the relationships with several offshore teams as needed to augment testing and capital development resources.  • Assess, identify, and evaluate fundamental issues, providing strategy and direction for major functional and technical areas.  • Responsible for developing strong relationships with internal and external partners.  • Developed, trained, and deployed manual and automated support procedures to resolve system problems and business client needs.  • Responsible for senior leadership briefings on progress, risk, and new opportunities.  • Liaison with Finance and Management to monitor monthly financial performance against planned budget.  • Responsible for working with Marketing, Social Media, and multiple Product Owners in identifying the need for, researching, recommending investments in, defining requirements for, and managing the delivery of new capabilities and processes of product.  • Coordinates software system installs, maintenance, upgrades and monitoring to ensure equipment is functioning to specification. L2 IT Business Analyst SEAWORLD PARKS & ENTERTAINMENT - Orlando, FL November 2012 to September 2013 • Drive key solutions across Development/Engineering, Marketing, Finance, and Contracting.  • Responsible the lifecycle management of 11 park websites, internal application systems, and third party ticketing systems.  • Responsible for the development and maintenance of the company used source control and content management system, Sitecore.  • Liaison with Finance and Management to monitor monthly financial performance against planned budget.  • Responsible for identifying the need for, researching, recommending investments in, defining requirements for, and managing the delivery of new E-Commerce and ticketing system capabilities and processes for electronic distribution of product via the Internet.  • Responsible for working with leadership to ensure that guidelines, requirements, and department standards are met during all phases.  • Responsible for successful new partnership integration with our third party sales and ticketing platform.  • Work collaboratively with internal and external partners (at all organization levels) to elicit requirements, design solutions, and test/reconcile data for quality, accuracy, and clarity. Senior Project & Portfolio Analyst WALT DISNEY PARKS & RESORTS ONLINE - Celebration, FL February 2010 to November 2012 • Responsible for the developing an awareness of the data sources, systems leveraged, analysis, coding, and delivery of dashboard and reporting solutions by Walt Disney Parks and Resorts Online for creating an environment of data information availability, consistency, and clarity to support internal and external customers' business performance and activity management.  • Increased operational efficiency across Walt Disney Parks & Resorts Online (Disney's internal online agency) and Yellow Shoes (Disney's internal advertising agency), for a total of more than 800 employees.  • Responsible for assisting in the development and maintenance of Walt Disney Parks & Resorts Online's annual operating plan of greater than $120M.  • Work collaboratively with internal and external partners (at all organization levels) to elicit requirements, design solutions, and test/reconcile data for quality, accuracy, and clarity.  • Acts as Liaison between Production and Finance Maintaining project life cycle documentation including business case, scope, project plan, functional requirement and technical specification documents, functional approvals, status reports, ad hoc reports, & dashboards.  • Financial oversight of large scale projects with development budgets ranging from $10M - $45M.  • Standardized reporting of project financials and managed Walt Disney Parks & Resorts Online's Portfolio.  • Created automated KPI dashboards to track labor capacity shortage/surplus, resource utilization, resource availability, project burn, and project variances, among other metrics. Senior Reporting Analyst GSI COMMERCE - Melbourne, FL March 2008 to November 2009 • Worked as a Project Manager for Cognos Server Upgrade Project. Which involved scoping the project, resource planning, coordination with IBM, Designing AID (Application Interface Diagram) and TAD (Technical Architecture Diagram) to set up new servers for Cognos development and production environment and upgrading to Cognos 8.2 and later on to Cognos 8.4.  • Database utility experience including reorg, runstats, rebind, export, import, load, auto-load, backup, restore and recover utilities. Staff Sergeant UNITED STATES AIR FORCE 1998 to 2005 Education Bachelor of Science in Business in Business UNIVERSITY OF PHOENIX March 2020 Skills DEPLOYMENT (10+ years), Virtualization (Cloud and on Premise) (7 years), APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT (10+ years), INTEGRATION (10+ years), E/M-Commerce (10+ years), Database Management (7 years), Continuous Deployment (8 years), Product Management (6 years), Project Management (10+ years), Payment Processing (10+ years), SOX (10+ years), Vendor Management (10+ years), Process Improvement (10+ years), Enterprise Architecture (10+ years), ERP (10+ years), Leadership Development (7 years), Datacenter Management (7 years), Cloud Computing (10+ years) Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Rank: E5 Additional Information Skills Summary  ? E/M-Commerce ? PCI/SOC ? Process Improvement  ? Cloud Virtualization Technologies ? SQL, HTML, CSS, ? Enterprise Resource Planning  ? Program Management ? Third Party Integration ? Application Development  ? Product & Project Management ? eCommerce Systems ? Infrastructure Management  ? Continuous Integration/Deployment ? Vendor Management ? Training & Development