Network Engineer Network Engineer Experienced Network Engineer Hudson, IL Work Experience Network Engineer CEFCU - Peoria, IL April 2016 to Present Impingement and configuring Carbon Black   Administrating and configuring SCCM, Application and update deployments  Implementing and configuring Extrahop, analyzing network traffic, network slowness, application issues.  Exchange configuration and administration.  Forcepoint and Mimecast configuration and administration.  Active directory, Group Policy administration.  VMWare configuration and administration  Nimble storage and Synology.  Windows Server Administration Network Admin Nelson Global Products - Morton, IL May 2014 to April 2016 System Center configuration and administrator  Configure polices and packages to deploy in system Center.  Deploying Endpoint Protection  Domain administration, Active Directory, Group policy  Cisco Switch Configuration, ASA 5055 Configuration  Barracuda Spam filter, link balancer, Web Filter administration  Aruba wireless configuration and Administration  Administrating Vmware esxi, Vmware View, and Exchange IT support Vesuvius - Champaign, IL November 2011 to May 2014 Support all applications for Vesuvius central region.  Work on workstation and server issues.  Troubleshoot issues with networks  Create script to automate procedures also create  Work with factory applications to automate tasks using scripts Network Specialist Mavidea - Bloomington, IL August 2008 to March 2010 Worked with software that managed networks, monitoring performance, services etc.  Created scripts in Kaseya to do many tasks install and update software, Pull log files, and query active directory, Server migrations from server 2003 to server 2008  Setup and configured server 2003, 2003SBS, 2008, and 2008SBS. Windows XP, Vista, 7  Configured group policy rules for clients needs  Configured and administrated Symantec antivirus, Kaspersky, MacAfee and Trend micro  Active directory administration  Configured and used Microsoft Bit locker to encrypt data for healthcare clients  Configure and administered Firewalls Cisco PIX, ASA. Sonic wall, and Tipping point Network Specialist\ software development Advanced Technology Services - Peoria, IL August 2007 to August 2008 Worked to help develop managed services software, monitoring performance, services, Remote assistance, software installs, and help desk ticketing.  Created Vbscripts, and Javascipts to configure windows workstations in workgroup environment. (Remote Access, change firewall to allow wmi monitoring, Created service accounts on the machines.)  Created Vbscripts, and Javascipts to install, execute files, Retrieve log files, browser history.  Worked with vendor to modify php code to integrate some of tools created into the managed services interface.  Created monitoring templates and groups to monitor all WMI information from windows machines.  Worked with SNMP and vendors MIBS to retrieve information from hardware devices.  Monitored SNMP strings and setup notifications.  Worked with Managed Workplace to create new features and fix problems.  Configured firewalls Cisco PIX and ASA, and Tipping point. Technical project manager (startup) Advanced Technology Services - New York, NY June 2007 to August 2007 Created procedures for new contract  Performed network discovery and data mining  Created documentation and procedures  Worked with customers to find out where they would like to see improvements  Trained new technicians at both facilities Network Admin\ Security Analyst Advanced Technology Services - Pontiac, IL August 2006 to June 2007 Helped hardware and software team to solve issues  Active Directory administration  Group policy administration  Created Group police to limit access on production machines.  Created Group police to create Kiosk workstation with only web access to sites that had been approved by management.  Used javascript to create a proxy for kiosk, allowing users to only get to sites in approved sites list.  Configured performance monitors to monitor machines that were having issues.  Configured VBscript and psexec to automate running commands and installing software on remote machines without disturbing end users.  SMS administration  Correcting security issues found by Qualys  Worked with vendors to get there software working without the user needing admin rights.  Network configuration and troubleshooting with Cisco switches and firewalls PIX and ASA  Troubleshooting VPN connections and remote access  Windows Update configuration and administration  Security auditing and addressing the issues with the company  Configured and administrated Symantec antivirus  Helped vendors with automating system tasks by creating scripts in Javascript, Network Administrator/Pricing and PC support Parkway Foods - Bloomington, IL October 2001 to April 2006 Problem solving network connectivity, helping end users with applications and problems in a Microsoft and UNIX environment.  Administrating user computer permissions on Windows NT server. Setting up Cisco (pix) router and firewall for VPN for pharmacy and credit card transmissions.  Security, VPN and firewall setup, packet analyzing (ethereal, Unix Administration, Windows administration, Antivirus, log monitoring, setting up security policies for pharmacy to comply with HIPAA standards. Troubleshooting VPN connections and remote access. Education New Horizons Computer Learning Center - Bloomington, IL April 2004 to April 2005 Computer Electronics American College of Technology - Bloomington, IL September 1993 to September 1994 Additional Information Experienced network engineering professional with outstanding success rate at installing, migrating and supporting critical, multi-site networks. Proven ability to manage all phases of network installation and administration. With outstanding troubleshooting and problem solving skills.