Network Security Engineer Network <span class="hl">Security</span> Engineer Network Security Engineer Work Experience Network Security Engineer SecureData Solutions, Inc March 2019 to July 2019 • Network vulnerabilities scans.  • Compile vulnerability reports for customers.  • Pre/post-sales support. Web Advisor I/II/III/Tier 2/Tier 3 Linux Admin Endurance International September 2016 to March 2019 • Exhibited proficiency with Linux command line to be granted root access in the server farm.  • Make personal connections with customers on the phone while leading them down the path of resolution.  • Collaborate with teammates to deliver "change the business" projects that will improve both the customer & Web Advisor experience.  • Leverage multi-channel customer engagement mediums, including e-mail, ticketing systems, phone calls, and chats.  • Consult, recommend and enable the right online product and service strategies to help customers with their business or personal needs.  • Customer Care duties include resolving billing discrepancies, account complaints and helping customers troubleshoot and resolve their concerns and answer their questions.  • Maintain knowledgeable and efficient response, control and handling of cases.  • Meet or exceed expectations through a metrics-driven performance standard. IT Systems Analyst Mckesson September 2015 to January 2016 • Provide IT support to some 500 oncology practices and radiation treatment centers, vendors, contractors and external partners throughout the US for McKesson Specialty Health.  • Security administration for AD, Windows Server resource access in a multiple domain forest, including user account creation and archival and managing access controls.  • Troubleshoot client Cloud Services connectivity and application issues.  • Manage and create mailboxes and distribution groups in Exchange 2013.  • Application support for clinical and business.  • Print Server management.  • Troubleshoot McAfee Suite for encryption / anti-virus issues on client computers.  • Troubleshoot DFS functionality issues and data restorations. Senior Desktop Support Newpark Resources - Houston, TX January 2012 to September 2015 • Provide support for problems related to hardware, software, network/mainframe connectivity and application support in a primarily Microsoft environment.  • Provide support for Apple, Android and Blackberry devices in the enterprise environment.  • Support local proprietary software packages and all other commercially purchased software.  • Create documentation of process, procedures and how-to tutorials for technicians and users.  • Hardware and software replacement and upgrades.  • Active Directory Users and Computers changes and adds.  • Assist in migrating users from Windows XP to Windows 7 System Administrator / Desktop Support II Overstock.com - Salt Lake City, UT January 2010 to September 2011 • Resolve issues within the applied SLA.  • Perform process improvement and system administrative tasks.  • Operating System / configuration support for end users with issues related to Windows, Linux and Mac.  • Support local proprietary software packages and all other commercially purchased software.  • Create training documents for end users and other technicians.  • Script writing to automate software installs and client management.  • Exchange server administration.  • Perform process improvement, system administrative tasks and user account maintenance.  • Perform daily and weekly checklists and duties to insure proper functionality.  • Image systems with SCCM.  • Other typical hardware and software related client / server duties as assigned for internal users and external partners. Senior Technical Consultant Banyan Technology Solutions - Rockville, MD March 2006 to October 2009 • As a contractor at Dugway Proving Grounds, provide technical expertise for Banyan Technology Solution's multi-million dollar contract.  • Responsible for assuring all systems are DOD/Army security compliant, installing patches and security updates, AD and group policy development and implementation, and writing scripts to automate the update process.  • Exchange server administration.  • Network scans to find security vulnerabilities and systems that have been previously compromised on client and server systems.  • Process and procedure development, documentation and implementation.  • Support local and DOD proprietary software packages and all other commercially purchased software.  • Configure routers and switches.  • Create training documents for end users and other technicians.  • Maintain company documentation for contractual requirements.  • Other typical hardware and software related helpdesk/server duties as assigned for 1600+ users.  • Functioned as the project manager for eight other onsite employees. Education High school or equivalent Skills Active directory, Dns, Linux, Dhcp, Remote access, Vmware, Vpn, Wins, Disaster recovery, Symantec, Microsoft office (10+ years), Windows (10+ years), Mac, Printers, LAN, Exchange, Networking, SQL, Security, firewalls, Linux (5 years), Cisco Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: E3 Certifications/Licenses ITIL Foundations Present CompTIA A+ Present Additional Information Installation and troubleshooting of network LAN/WAN technologies, Disaster Recovery, Computer Hardware, and other corporate software. Systems / Network Administration, Project Development and Management.    TECHNICAL SKILLS  Operating Systems: Windows Server 2000/2003/2008/2012, Windows 95/98/2000/XP/Vista/7/10, Linux, Dos and Macintosh OS X.  Software Packages: Client: Microsoft Office Suite/Office 365, Anti-Virus and various out of the box and created software packages. Server: Active Directory, Virtual Servers, Print Server, VPN, Email Servers, VMware, Symantec / Endpoint Anti-Virus, Cloud Services, Remote Access, Disaster Recovery, DHCP, WINS, Web Servers, DNS.  Hardware: PC, Mac, backup systems, video hardware, scanners, printers, laptops, hubs, switches, routers, phone systems.