Director IT Security & Compliance Director <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> &amp; Compliance CRISC, CISA, ITILv3 Foundation Certifications Lake Oswego, OR Demonstrated leadership in IT professional services delivered to top Fortune 100 organizations. Deep knowledge and experience in IT administration, architecture and design with a specific focus on information security and risk management. Noted accomplishments in information security, privacy, risk management, program management, business development, practice management/operations and organizational development. Excellent verbal and written communication skills.   Broad experience in various industries including financial services, transportation, health care, academia, information technology, insurance and manufacturing. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Director IT Security & Compliance ReachNow - Portland, OR June 2017 to Present ·     Built our company wide Information Security Program by utilizing the NIST framework for guidance.  ·     Established our enterprise wide Risk Management program and created the governing risk committee.  ·     Created the third party Vendor Risk Management program to establish a process to review external vendors from a security perspective.  ·     Established a strategic plan to obtaining a SOC 2 report and subsequent road map to remediate gaps noted during internal assessment.  ·     Owned and managed the SOC 1 report and subsequent in scope processes and application from the financial and IT perspective.  ·     Created a security and awareness training program and facilitated the training companywide annually.  ·     Built our privacy program that addressed both internal and external privacy and regulatory requirements (GDPR/CCPA).  ·     Facilitate our external vulnerability and penetration testing vendors on appropriate scope and services.  ·     Participated in larger company wide initiatives that required heavy input from a security and compliance perspective such as data and payments projects/initiatives.  ·     Consulted with business units to further communicate the role of security and overall compliance initiatives and how they work on a daily basis. Sr Information Security Risk Analyst NIKE - Beaverton, OR September 2016 to Present • Assisted team in reengineering the vendor risk management program, to include identification of high-risk vendors, periodic review of vendors, intake process, and risk assessment process.  • Conducted information security vendor risk assessment for vendors interested in engaging business with Nike.  • Concluded on vendor risk to Nike based on vendor responses to Nike initiated survey results.  • Assisted in defining the process for internal risk assessments, noting areas within Nike that have a higher risk for control breakdown. Information Security Risk and Governance Manager Umpqua Bank - Portland, OR December 2015 to September 2016 • Enhanced Information Security Risk Assessment process, created a repeatable process to risk rank current and new assets against pre defined criteria such as money movement, payment applications, online banking, SOX significant.  • Defined gap assessment process to review/update older gaps, define criteria for new gap acceptance or reviewing non-acceptance for a remediation plan response.  • Create a control self-assessment questionnaire of key security controls to measure against and determine gaps across all high-risk banking assets.  • Created a project engagement process to determine the level and extent of Information Security’s involvement in projects across the bank.  • Performed a gap analysis against ISO 27002 to determine areas for improvement against current bank policies.  • Assisted in process to review third party vendors both current and new to ensure critical Information Security controls were in place.  • Involved with exams from banking regulators such as the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) and FED. Technology Audit Supervisor Umpqua Bank - Portland, OR December 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities  • Responsible for creating the internal audit policies, procedures, guidelines, and standards based on IIA/ISACA guidelines.  • Develop risk assessment strategy for the IT universe to determine a better way to capture technology risks.  • Redefined the IT Audit Plan to align audits with key processes.  • Coordinate with operational audit teams to perform integrated audits. Worked to develop the integrated audit process.  • Plan, coordinate, execute, close all IT Audits and provide reports to auditees with a plan to remediate issues noted.  • Train new auditors on the process for conducting an IT audit and key components covered in all audits.  • Coordinate the IT components of SOX testing with the external auditors and internal teams.  • Provide process improvement strategy to update current audit practices at the bank.    Skills Used  Process Enhancement, Regulatory Guidance, SOX, Project Management, Technical Audits Vice President, IS Project Manger Internal Audit NORTHERN TRUST - Chicago, IL October 2012 to November 2014 Responsible for the development of the bank's risk based audit plan, which included key platforms and applications. Developed a budget, timeline, and assigned resources for each project planned.  • Managed multiple IT based audits continuously throughout the year in addition to 9 SOC 1 reports and SOX year-end testing.  • Provide clear and concise management reports to the Audit Committee, detailing specific control gap findings, recommendations and remediation action plans.  • Consult with management on evolution of technology landscape and plan appropriate control environment to adapt to changes.  • Prepared and presented monthly IT Audit updates to the Information Technology directors and CTO.  • Worked with our external auditors to complete all required testing on time. Assisted in issues analysis with the Information Technology group prior to SOC 1/SOX issuance.  • Presented several topics of interest to the bank's Audit Services group regarding Application Risk, CAAT's, and Application Control Testing.  • Developed, coached and monitored staff to ensure they were on track to meet goals and objectives monthly. Homemaker Homemaker - Chicago, IL January 2009 to October 2012 IT Audit Manager KPMG LLP - Chicago, IL August 2004 to January 2009 Lead engagement manager on a large commercial truck manufacturer, responsible for managing project metrics, scope, budget, timelines and issues. Reported status to managing partners and key client contacts via written and oral presentation. Effectively managed budget that ranged between $3 to $5 million over 3 years.  • Managed multiple business systems controls evaluations for Fortune 500 industries, which include manufacturing, insurance, healthcare, financial services as well as local government agencies. Interviewed process owners, mapped data flow, identified process controls, assessed control strength and designed control improvements for complex enterprise systems.  • Conducted several information technology audits specializing in consumer, industrial and financial service markets. Evaluated IT general controls and system application controls in terms of financial audit risk.  • Evaluated information technology risks for the firm's audit clients that included the assessment of business processes to identify risks related to the use of information system technologies and internal controls.  • Played key roles in several Sarbanes-Oxley 404 attestation engagements, directly involved with the evaluation, documentation, and testing of IT general controls, and application controls.  • Performed pre-SAS 70 procedures and helped several clients plan for the attestation process. Presented the clients with control improvements needed prior to the attestation period.  • Worked in an advisory role within several Fortune 100 companies to assist with evaluating both technology and business processes, including developing, testing, and documenting IT general controls, application controls, and IT entity level controls for Sarbanes-Oxley compliance.  • Created proposal presentations for potential new clients based on requests for proposals (RFP) submitted to the firm. Identified client needs and matched firm services and expertise.  • Actively involved in the firms staff mentoring program and new hire orientation process. Created new staff evaluation and feedback process for performance reviews. Senior Consultant Ernst & Young LLP - Dallas, TX December 1998 to August 2004 Utilized project management tools and methodologies with large insurance client by delivering weekly status reports and maintaining detailed project plans and timelines. Tracked project economics for time and expense and monitored invoice and billing status.  • Assessed and evaluated current client processes and procedures and provided recommendations based on client requirements. Presented findings and recommendations to C-Level client stakeholders.  • Performed Threat & Risk Assessment (TRA) for Consolidated Data Center and Primary Network Facility.  • Worked with clients to develop appropriate controls to comply with Sarbanes Oxley 404 regulation.  • Created and documented procedures that enabled a large web-based client to receive and comply with WebTrust certification standards. Education Bachelor of Science in Business Administration Franklin University - Columbus, OH Skills Risk Management, SOX 404, SSAE16, ITSM, Risk & Control Testing, Certifications/Licenses CISA Present ITIL v3 Present