IT Security Analyst and Business Dev <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> and Business Dev Chattanooga, TN Work Experience IT Security Analyst and Business Dev ACT Business Machines April 2019 to Present Analyze technology security risks in relation to businesses and their customers. Also develop business based on needs and wants. Installer/Technician Double T Siding October 2018 to March 2019 Install siding, windows, roofs, and other components on a house to the best possible standard and in a timely fashion to the approval of the home owner. Sales Professional Mtn. View Chevrolet - Chattanooga, TN August 2017 to September 2018 Finding the customers wants and needs through communication and facilitating those needs all while maintaining a high customer service score set by Chevrolet and dealer. Service Advisor Kelly Subaru - Chattanooga, TN 2016 to 2017 Focused on customer needs related to services needing performed while maintaining their vehicle to the highest possible standard.  - Maintained a high sales number throughout the months including typical "slow months".  - Developed relationships with many customers who would ask for me by name. Service Advisor Economy Honda - Chattanooga, TN 2013 to 2016 Focused on customer needs related to services needing performed while maintaining their vehicle to the highest possible standard.  - Started in Porter position and worked my way to a Service Advisor within 3 months due to perseverance and my attentive ability.  - Developed relationships with many customer who would ask for me by name. Barista Starbucks Coffee - Chattanooga, TN 2011 to 2013 Fully focused on customer needs while maintaining great customer service and making the highest  quality products available. Installer/Technician Double T Siding February 2008 to January 2011 Install siding, windows, roofs, and other components on the outside of a house to the best possible standard and in a timely fashion to the approval of the home owner. Education Coffee County Central High School - Manchester, TN 2008 Skills Excel (2 years), Microsoft Word (10+ years), Outlook. (2 years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Microsoft Word, Excel, and Outlook. Google Docs, and social media applications including LinkedIn,  Twitter, and Instagram.