Certified Field Inspector Certified Field Inspector Sales Professional Gainesville, VA Work Experience Certified Field Inspector JES Foundation Repair September 2018 to Present September 2018-Present  • Conduct in-home inspections; Diagnose foundation, basement, and/or crawlspace issues.  • Educate homeowners on the issues in their homes and provide solutions for their foundation, basement, or crawl space issues.  • Estimate the repairs and provide homeowners with sellable job proposals.  • Close sales with customers in the home.  • Meet / Exceed established sales goals.  • Commitment to continually improve and execute the sales process.  • Bring "can-do" attitude to all leads and opportunities.  • Represent the company in a professional manner.  • Accurate, timely follow-up and reporting. Sales Representative Verizon Cellular Sales January 2017 to September 2018 January, 2017-September 2018  • Develop customized consumer and business technology solutions  • Provide conciege-level service  • Consecutively meet and exceed top tier goals  • Recommend solutions based on expert knowledge of the current technology environment. Survey Technician A.D. Platt Civil Engineering April 2015 to January 2017 • Make exact measurements and determine property boundaries.  • Provide data relevant to the shape, contour, gravitation, location, elevation, or dimension of land or land features on or near the earth's surface for engineering, mapmaking, mining, land evaluation, construction, and other purposes.  • Calculate heights, depths, relative positions, property lines, and other characteristics of terrain.  • Direct or conduct surveys to establish legal boundaries for properties, based on legal deeds and titles.  • Coordinate findings with the work of engineering and architectural personnel, clients, and others concerned with projects.  • Establish fixed points for use in making maps, using geodetic and engineering instruments.  • Adjust surveying instruments to maintain their accuracy. IT Help Desk Support Virginia Education Association - Richmond, VA January 2013 to April 2015 • Contract position  • End user support for various offices across Virginia  • Quickly identified the root cause of technical issues  • Provided first-level contact and problem resolution to all users in the Headquarters office in Richmond and remote users across Virginia using remote desktop technologies  • Troubleshoot hardware, software, and application problems, resolved user-reported problems using available tools and assisted in providing basic troubleshooting services including network connectivity, printer, PC hardware, Smartphones, tablets, and related software problems  • Performed work under the coordination of the Information Systems Specialist to provide remote and onsite support to users in VEA headquarters and field offices  • Prepared, deployed and maintained VEA-owned computers, using remote administrative and diagnostic tools, as necessary Regional IT Analyst Abercrombie & Fitch, Europe February 2010 to January 2013 • Business partnership with regional oversight, drove vendor performance and service levels for new store installation, depot center activity, and break-fix opportunities in over 95 sites with approximately 20,000+ end users in multiple languages  • Provided direct support to store and field associates within the region  • Extensive support for various departments such as, Human Resources, IT Quality Assurance, Loss Prevention, POS Design, Vendors, Contractors, and centralized Help Desk  • Provision SDMA Ad Hoc networking to various users  • Provided project management of targeted new store installations by working closely with Construction Management, IT service providers, and corporate office IT teams  • Maintained a team attitude in a small group of IT associates in the region  • Configured network topographies based on cost effective solutions  • Budgeted company cost with key investor's interest with the company  • Identified hardware and component failure that require repair or replacement in a cost effective and timely manner.  • Quickly identified and resolved the root cause of faults within Microsoft Office Suite Network Security Consultant Weiss Elektro - Dusseldorf, DE January 2010 to January 2012 Germany  • Configured new services for Internet and telephone for small businesses  • Extensive knowledge in data encryption, design and maintenance of databases. Knowledge of performance tuning views, indexes, SQL and PLSQL Regional Customer Accounts Executive Comcast - Richmond, VA September 2006 to January 2009 • Configured new services for Internet and telephone for small businesses  • Performed upgrades and up-selling products and services essential to productivity  • Troubleshoot operating systems and network issues  • Complete installation of new services  • 24 hour on call support; train new employees on new technologies; meet sales goals  • Establish strong relationships with customers and members of the team  • Troubleshoot outages for LAN, WLAN, MAN and 802.16 WI-MAX networks Education Bachelor's Skills Communications, Inventory Management, Customer Service, Typing, retail sales, Microsoft Word, problem solving, Time Management, Sales, Word Certifications/Licenses Home Improvement Sales Present Additional Information • VM Ware certified  • Versed in HTML, XHTML  • Virus Protection and Eradication  • Hardware recovery  • Microsoft certified  • Extensive knowledge of operating systems  • Highly capable and adaptive to new technologies  • Security administration port security on switch and IP security on Router via Access list.  • Cisco networking troubleshooting    • Disaster Recovery  • Ad Hoc Networking  • Vendor management  • Extensive understanding and deployment of network security  • Telephony administration  • Microsoft SQL Server end user support  • Microsoft Exchange end user support