Counter Sales Counter Sales Liberty, KY Work Experience Counter Sales NAPA Auto Parts - Liberty, KY October 2018 to Present Provide customer service and sales of auto parts. Assist in maintaining inventory, making daily stock orders and price changes. Make daily deposits, bill payments and daily paperwork. Assistant Store Manager O'Reilly Auto Parts - Liberty, KY March 2018 to October 2018 Provided customer service and sales of auto parts. Managed daily paperwork, made daily deposits, assisted in maintaining inventory and changed planograms. Store Manager Liberty Shell Mart - Liberty, KY August 2014 to March 2018 Hiring and training of employees. Responsible for scheduling, payroll and managing all accounts. Maintaining orders and inventory, overseeing pricing of all stock, along with all office paperwork and daily deposits. Caregiver/Companion Self-employed - Liberty, KY December 2012 to July 2013 Responsible for making sure person took medicine and making sure it was refilled in a timely manner. Assisted with cooking and cleaning around the home. Helped person get out of bed, dressed or around the house as needed. Courtesy Desk Associate Wal-Mart - Winchester, KY March 2010 to December 2012 Provide customer service, Resolve customer's service or billing complaints, Solicit sale of new or additional services or products, Determine charges for services requested, Collect deposits or payments and Confer with customers by telephone or in person Janitor ABM Janitorial Services - Winchester, KY July 2008 to July 2009 Responsible for maintaining the cleanliness of the workplace such as cleaning windows, water fountains, break rooms and bathrooms Helpdesk Agent Kelly Services/EDS - Winchester, KY April 2008 to May 2008 Responsible for answering inbound customer calls, Assisted user in troubleshooting their device and getting it setup and working properly and Provided call backs to customers if needed. IT Security Analyst Kelly Services/EDS - Winchester, KY November 2007 to April 2008 Responsible for creating/removing Active Directory user accounts and groups along with Exchange 2003 mailboxes, Added users to security groups and distribution lists, Diagnosed security and access problems such as chronic account lockouts and Contacted users upon completion of their requests. Print Operator Express Personnel Services/Ashland, Inc - Lexington, KY May 2007 to November 2007 Responsible for the printing of reports and helping to maintain Xerox printers. Ensured the quality of the print and delivery of reports to the correct party. Computer Operator Appalachian Regional Healthcare - Lexington, KY November 2006 to May 2007 Responsible for daily processes of all batch cycles, Loading/unloading of tapes for backups off numerous servers, Followed schedule to ensure jobs were run at correct time, Monitor systems throughout the night to ensure all systems are running properly, Process numerous micro scripts and Take on help desk responsibilities when needed. Mailroom/Payment Processing Tier Technologies - Lexington, KY June 2006 to November 2006 Sorted and scanned mail, some data entry to help process payments and Learned 10-key to help with payment processing. Photo Lab Technician Wal-Mart - Lexington, KY October 2005 to June 2006 Processed and printed multiple forms of film, Ensured picture quality, Met the deadline for the time due to customer, Helped customer with dissatisfaction of product and Explained features of the cameras to help the customer find the right one for them. Education Associate in Computer Engineering Technology Spencerian College March 2006 Skills Sales, Inventory, Cashier, Time Management, Microsoft Excel, Word