IT Network &Security Manager - National, International <span class="hl">IT</span> Network &amp;Security Manager - National, International IT Network &Security Manager - National, International - American Bank Note North America Columbia, TN Security/Application/Network manager, engineer, trainer, and administrator for over 20 years. Enterprise-level experience maintaining applications and projects. Possess excellent analytical and interpersonal communication skills at all organizational levels. A strong aptitude for the listed items from project inception to implementation and management with all levels of an organization. This is including but not limited to the following items - active Clearance OIG USPS level 2-3 contractor.  • Information security administration/assurance  • Information technology  • InfoSec mitigation/assessment/forensics  • Enterprise Architecture  • Windows Enterprise Server Products  • Windows End User Products  • Windows Enterprise Exchange  • Enterprise Disaster Recovery and Business Continuity  • Cloud Technology    • Enterprise AV products  • Enterprise telecom/mobile  • Virtualization  • Enterprise Network and System Monitoring  • Firewalls, VPN's, Network-Based Firewalls, Spam Firewalls  • Wireless Infrastructure  • Networking Infrastructure  • Systems Infrastructure  • Enterprise Architecture Work Experience IT Network &Security Manager - National, International American Bank Note North America - Columbia, TN November 2014 to Present • Authoring cybersecurity policies for the environment for site compliance within auditing requirements nationally.  • I am managing IT security assessment and mitigation for the environment. Rebuild of applications from the ground up across multiple locations, including internal audits and reconciliation with external vendors and their compliance.  • I am managing employees with a delegation of assignments to accomplish these goals within proper metrics.  • Project Management/Configuration of infrastructure for LAN/WAN print, telecom, file, etc. successfully implemented and managed directly involved in the production nationally.  • Project Management/Site administration and relations with all departments assessing their levels with concern to disaster recovery and business continuity nationally and interfacing internationally.  • I am assessing and mitigating risk levels across the organization, specifically concerning client obligations, contracts, and regulations and compliance with multiples of these.  • Assessing existing wiring, surveillance, telephony, network (switches, routers, firewalls, etc.), systems (peripherals, computers, servers (hardware, VM)), applications (e-mail, national accounting, international ERP's, etc.)  • AD configuration, management, and support. Coordinating the accounts have the proper security group permissions with concern to role-based access.  • Vendor relations and management concerning any aspect presently in use (websites, servers, applications, ERP's,) regarding audit and compliance.  • I am assessing all IT functions for upgrades followed by requisitions, installations, and configurations.  • I am maintaining the security of the existing site and corp by following the best standards and practices such as NIST, FISMA, ISO.  • Managing IT portion of the project management and working with vendors to achieve successful results.  • Working with internal telecommunications vendors to make sure Pots lines, MPLS, T1, the cable is available to the site so that they may be configured for access.  • It is working with wiring vendors to follow 802.11 wiring standards for MDF and IDF's including CAT5e, CAT6, and Fiber with proper terminations on each end. This included anything from new buildings and additions. Also, anything from POE access points to dual-wall drops and their proper location. Also, worked with Security access dept. Set up proper security, fire, paging, and DVR configurations needed.  • Configuring all printers, computers, switches, routers, servers (VM or hardware), firewalls, redundant mpls and DSL, cable, 4g, VoIP phones, wireless access points, RF guns, etc. to work within the domain and by NIST best standards and practices.  • I am assessing and mitigating SAES audit Information Security and Assurance, FISMA, PCI, HIPAA, HITRUST, etc. IT Manager/ ERP Project Manager - National Truform - Dickson, TN February 2014 to October 2014 International  • Infrastructure builds out of the existing system at the main site on all levels successfully implemented and managed.  • Project manager of overall ERP system integration within all departments successfully implemented and managed  • Training of staff for ERP implementation.  • Server, system, application, network migration into corp. mid-size commercial environment.  • New site hardware and applications implementation to the configuration  • Purchasing for site acquisitions and migrations managing vendor relations LAN/WAN and infrastructure  • Policy and procedure documentation and management including logical diagrams of site infrastructure security  • Met auditing standards about ERP and protecting company data, HR, accounting, etc. regarding SOX compliance along with international and national compliance with regulations. Systems, Network and Infrastructure Manager LKQ - Nashville, TN May 2013 to January 2014 - National, International  • Responsible for escalating all levels of systems, network and application issues from acquisitions, migrations, moves within Corp. Environment successfully implemented and managed.  • Project/Configuring Windows servers for LAN printers, telecom, file, etc. for interim network assignment  • Multiple project/site administration and relationship management with all parties involved.  • Projects maintaining multiple site implementations telecom, MPLS, cable, etc.  • Server, system, application, network migration into corp. Domain involving existing products.  • ERP new site hardware and applications implementation and migration  • Purchasing for multiple site acquisitions within the infrastructure.  • Vendor relations LAN/WAN and infrastructure  • Windows AD, email, website, and migration support from start to inception of enterprise standard.  • Policy and procedure documentation and management, including logical/physical diagrams of site infrastructure.  • I am incorporating sites to comply with SOX standards within Corp. environs verifying compliance status for audits. Sr. Technical Analyst - National Vanguard Health Systems - Nashville, TN February 2011 to April 2013 • Responsible for escalating all levels of systems, network, and application issues from service requests.  • Project/Site administration and relations.  • I am documenting policies for the environment concerning security and HIPAA regulations.  • Project/Phone server connectivity and management and user migration.  • Project/PC conversion to BYOD to bring in line with HIPAA compliance and audit.  • Application support for Corp. and remote sites.  • Network/server/application maintenance and management.  • Video conference management and admin for Tandberg Cisco systems. I have led the team to the lowest ticket count and best customer service for the largest number of users in corporate office history.  • Trained staff and managed consultants to assist with LAN duties. Systems Analyst - Consultant - National Outpatient Imaging Affiliates - Franklin, TN March 2010 to January 2011 • Responsible for escalated network issues from the helpdesk requests.  • Design/Mapping and documenting the entire network environment with an interactive Visio.  • Design/Implementation - Site administration and relations. Documenting and Performing quarterly site visits.  • Phone server connectivity and management.  • Application, systems, and network support for corp. and remote site Radiologist offices.  • Network/server maintenance and management.  • Blackberry enterprise server administration, including the migration of users to a new BES server.  • Responsible for HIPAA compliance and its accountability within the IT environment. Network Engineer Consultant for taking Care Health Systems Everest Technologies - Nashville, TN February 2009 to February 2010 - National  • Managed network response to help desk requests.  • A project using Quest and other tools to migrate 4500+ users to the new domain from 3 separate domains.  • I have assisted in any issues that arose from the migration process.  • Gathered data and filed requests for VPN access between TCHS Network and Walgreens.  • She is assisted by other departments in solutions for network and security compliance issues.  • Design/Built images of servers for infrastructure hardware- security hardened based on HIPAA  • Assisted users with access issues resultant from Citrix or Desktop Authority.  • Responsible for HIPAA compliance and auditing the IT environment at multiple healthcare facilities across the nation. Network Engineer, IT Manager for Cyber Security Managed Everest Technologies - Nashville, TN January 2007 to January 2009 services - National  • Maintained excellent client relations about network engineering and monitoring duties.  • Presented network monitoring findings to board members and management quarterly.  • Designed/Implemented and maintained Info Sec managed application security several enterprises in the SE region.  • Design/Wrote draft policy and procedure for network monitoring clients with a concentration on HIPAA  • InfoSec managed application security documentation and implementation of incident response and mitigation. I have implemented/Managed SQL Server for database report creation.  • Managed Exchange 2003 for multiple sites.  • Symantec SSMS, Antivirus Corporate, Backup Exec inception, and management  • Administered patches, updates, policy, and procedure for clients and office network.  • Assisted clients with remediation and mitigation of issues as reported by monitoring solution.  • Responsible for HIPAA compliance and auditing the IT environment at multiple hospitals and banking institutions. Network Administrator - National Qualifacts Systems, Inc - Nashville, TN April 2005 to December 2006 • AD for group and account creation/management with relation to role-based access security.  • Managed and maintained user email accounts MS Exchange 2003.  • Design/Symantec AV/Ghost/Spyware protection implementation and management.  • Project/Implemented/Administered VERITAS Storage Executive.  • Administered patches, updates, policy, and procedure for LAN via WSUS.  • I have implemented/Managed Service Desk as an inventory control system.  • I have implemented imaging/archiving procedures concerning data retrieval and system rebuild.  • We have implemented physical and application security.  • Assisted meeting HIPAA preparations for audit and accreditations.  • I have worked within the network team on SAS70 audit and resulting mitigation with compliance to said audit. IT Specialist - Southeast Region Law Enforcement TBI, BJA, DOJ - Nashville, TN March 2000 to March 2005 - Federal, State, City, Local  • Supported access to the main site and 16 remote users in 14 SE U.S. Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico.  • Gauntlet VPN support to federal, state, and local law enforcement 14 SE U.S. Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico  • Administered CD creation and distribution for VPN application.  • Troubleshoot connectivity to database's, BBS's, and encrypted webmail.  • Documented inventory hardware/software network information.  • I have implemented and administered Symantec Web Security for the site.  • Inventory and purchasing hardware/application requirements for the site (<$1000)  • Streamlined VPN client installation/troubleshooting process for users in 14 SE U.S. providing much higher access/connectivity rates allowing support of a wider user base.  • I have worked within parameters required by FISMA for a government-funded agency adulting and compliance.  • I have assisted with periodic audits to maintain security standards based on affiliation with TBI and BJA. Education Master's in Information Systems Nashville, TN March 2012 to March 2014 Bachelor's in Information Security Nashville, TN January 2002 to January 2004 Associate in Network Information Systems Nashville, TN January 2000 to January 2002 Skills Network Security (10+ years), Systems Integration (10+ years), Wireless (10+ years), Enterprise Architecture (10+ years), Information Security (10+ years), Communications (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses MCP Server Management January 2007 Microsoft Certified Professional Server Maintenance and Management CCENT Certification July 2010 CISCO ICND1 passed Information Security Professional Practices – ISPP March 2017 Developed core competencies in assessing threats and vulnerabilities of information systems, designing security procedures and practices that are executed in the protection of data and information systems, and analyzing the validity and reliability of information to ensure that an information system will operate at a proposed level of trust. National Security Agency - NSA 4012 August 2018 Information Security for Senior Managers as approved by the Committee on National Security Systems – CNSS, and National Security Agency.  Enterprise Information Security Certification September 2018 EISC, Explored the domains of Information Security and examined practical approaches to implementing security awareness programs within an enterprise.