Cyber Security Analyst MID Cyber <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> MID PC/Network Technician / Cyber Security Professional Kapolei, HI • CompTIA® A+™, Network+™, Security+™, & ITIL® Foundation certified, and an active Secret Clearance.  • Microsoft Certified Professional (MCSA 70-697 | 70-410) with nine years overall experience.  • Supervised and trained clerical, administrative, and managerial personnel.  • Provided support during global implementation of the Navy/Marine Corps Intranet (NMCI) rollout. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Cyber Security Analyst MID Avening Tech - Camp H M Smith, HI October 2018 to Present Managed security measures for communication systems, security incident handling, intrusion prevention, and compliance.  • Analyzed systems, enforced security requirements, and articulated complex threats/vulnerabilities to senior leadership.  • Operated and monitored HBSS, ACAS, various point of presence security tools, and ensured compliance across the Pacific Region.  • Conducted risk analysis, analyzed cyber security trends, incidents, vulnerabilities, threats, and recommended mitigation strategies.  • Analyzed threats against vulnerabilities and   likelihood to measure risk to networks that impact operations that support missions.  • Collaborated on cyberspace threats and risk to   networks with joint and service cyberspace threat and intelligence organizations.  • Measured risk to networks through analysis   and determined residual risk after remediation and mitigation.  • Utilized regional assessment reports and   vulnerability scans to recommend corrective measures for defense in depth.  • Provided threat analysis impacting networks,   operations, task critical assets, and mission relevant terrain in cyberspace.  Computer Repair Technician iFixTech LLC (Personal Business) - Kapolei, HI February 2013 to Present Repaired laptops, desktop computers, and Mac’s. Provided technical direction and instructions to end users on device usage.  • Repaired PC’s, iMacs, laptops, mobile devices, removed malware, recovered data, built networks, and configured devices.   • Configured Windows Server environments, Group Policy, HyperV, DFS, DNS, DHCP, NAP, VPNs, and Active Directory.   • Repaired, tested, and configured routed/routing protocols, software, hardware, routers, switches, and firewalls.  • Provided end user support for Windows and Mac laptops, workstations, and mobile devices.  • Installed and configured, managed switches, routers, workstations, and networking protocols. IT Technician CDET - SNCO Academy - Kaneohe, HI June 2018 to April 2019 Managed network communication, workstations, audio/visual equipment.    • Provided end user support. Repaired, tested, configured, and maintained software, hardware, and network and A/V equipment.  IT Technician Intern Hawaii National Guard Youth ChalleNGe Academy - Kapolei, HI April 2018 to September 2018 Managed network communication, mobile devices, Office 365 Administration, and security camera system.   • Provided end user support for workstations and other device related issues  • Repaired, tested, configured, and maintained software, hardware, and network equipment.   • Configured multifactor authentication standards on mobile devices to ensure compliance.  • Manage inventory of desktop workstations.   • Monitor, repair, and maintain network cabling and security camera functionality. PC Technician Intern Computer Care - ‘Aiea, HI November 2017 to January 2018 Repaired laptops, desktop computers, and Mac's.  • Repaired PC and iMacs, laptops, removed malware, and configure devices. Full-time Student Applied Computer Training & Technology - ‘Aiea, HI 2011 to 2018 Privately repaired mobile devices, PC's, and Mac's. Validated experience with training at ACTT and volunteering at UoP.  • Repaired PC and Mac desktops, laptops, and mobile devices; recovered data, removed viruses, and configured devices.  • Diagnosed and resolved client issues using troubleshooting techniques and software tools.  • Designed and implemented system changes, standard operating procedures, desktop manuals, and network share content. Administrative NCO/Team Leader U.S. Marine Corps - Marine Corps Base, Hawaii, US 2002 to 2010 Prepared and maintained operational personnel records, directives, and Marine Corps Total Force System database.  • Supervised staff, provided client support, maintained personnel data, supported military justice, and audited records.  • Prepared travel orders, leave, pay, correspondence, identification cards, and maintained command unit punishment books.  • Updated unit diary reports, personnel management reports, and Marine Corps Total Force System databases.   • Managed improvement loans and grants and administered repair and maintenance programs.   Property Manager Army Hawaii Soldier Housing Goodwill Contract Services - Honolulu, HI 2008 to 2009 Provided management of operations and instruction in use of computer systems, and property management software.  • Supervised, trained, and instructed staff in operating procedures, computer systems, and Yardi Systems Inc. Housing.  • Operational Management System (HOMES 4) property management database software.   • Implemented Army Hawaii Soldier Housing’s intake and briefing system on Barracks grounds and policies for Unaccompanied.  • Personnel Housing (UPH) and facilitated the transfer of existing tenants.  • Devised and compiled daily, weekly and monthly reports for UPH Residents including Barracks  • Utilization, key issues, lock outs, service requests and the summary of all daily activities.  • Formed a strong liaison between landscapers, maintenance staff, and Military counter parts. Sales Consultant Hawaii Mitsubishi/Cutter Ala Moana - Honolulu, HI 2006 to 2008 Developed agenda for promotions, marketing strategies, and built relationships with customers.  • Demonstrated well-constructed presentations of products and services to facilitate well-informed buying decisions.  • Established an agenda that appropriately positions the Dealership, capabilities, and products with each individual customer.  • Developed expert knowledge of the Dealership and product strategies by effectively communicating with the Management Staff.  • Assisted with product promotions and contributed to key marketing initiatives and resolved customer or public complaints. Information Systems Coordinator U.S. Marine Corps - Camp H M Smith, HI 2003 to 2006 Evaluated user needs, worked with the IT Department, IT vendors, and service providers to ensure user satisfaction.  • Provided support during NMCI rollout, diagnosed and resolved issues for Windows PC’s, laptops, A/V, and peripherals.  • Coordinated with system users and service providers to design, install, configure, and maintain systems.   • Coordinated requirements with technical and operational teams for testing, production, and rollout of system enhancements.   • Conferred with users, fulfilled service requests, and provided software and hardware training to users. Education Bachelors of Science in Information Technology - Advanced Cyber Security University of Phoenix - Honolulu, HI 2011 to 2017 Skills Active Directory (1 year), Android (4 years), CCNA (Less than 1 year), Mac (3 years), mobile devices (4 years), System Admin, System Administrator, Vmware, Nist, Cyber Security, Siem, Network Security, Information Security Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/voidwalker83 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ January 2017 to April 2020 Developed a foundation in hardware, software, and mobile device technologies. Defined best practices for troubleshooting, networking, and security. CompTIA Network+ March 2017 to April 2020 Further developed understanding of networking concepts, constructs, security, and protocols. Capable of designing, configuring, managing, and troubleshooting wired and wireless networks. CompTIA Security+ April 2017 to April 2020 Built on previous knowledge and further developed essential principles in risk management, governance, cryptography, and network security. ITIL v3 April 2017 to Present Solidified a foundation on building service value by managing projects and service capabilities during the ITIL service life cycle. Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) June 2017 to Present Validated knowledge of Windows operating systems with exam 70-697: Configuring Windows Devices. Capable in Virtualization with Hyper-V, storage and networking configurations, system recovery, and Active Directory.    Validated knowledge of Windows Server 2012 with exam 70-410: Installing and Configuring Windows Server 2012. Capable in Active Directory, Hyper-V, Network Administration, and Group Policy. Driver's License Additional Information Skills  Active Directory/Hyper-V Data Migration Disk Cloning/Imaging Hardware Replacement  Logical Data Recovery Networking OS/software Deployments PC/Mobile Device Repair  Printer Configuration Project Management System Configurations System Administration    Technology Proficiencies    • Software/Tools: Microsoft Office, Adobe Suites, VMware, Recovery/imaging Tools, Windows Server 2012.  • Hardware: PC's, Laptops, Mobile devices, Printers, Routers, Switches, and Modems.    • Operating Systems: Windows XP/Vista/7/8.1/10. | Mac OS X | Android | iOS | Linux | Windows Server 2012.  • Knowledge Base: Studying MCSA - Windows 10 (70-698) & Windows Server 2012 R2 | CCNA R&S | CISSP.