Security Analyst\Operations Manager <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span>\Operations Manager Security Analyst\Operations Manager - Cybersoft Technologies, Inc Cypress, TX Work Experience Security Analyst\Operations Manager Cybersoft Technologies, Inc - Houston, TX January 2019 to Present Priority 2019 to review existing documentation and make company PCI/SOC compliant working with the legal team Small projects handed down by IT Director two Corp offices and 15 properties 2019 to Present and VP. Created a Security Awareness training, created training for SSO for applications and presented training to all personnel. Added these items to the contractor and employee onboarding process. Limited Infrastructure support on Windows and AD. Managing manual ticketing system, ticket assignment till resolution. 2019 3rd quarter implement a ticketing system. SLA's and workflow approval in progress now for ticketing system. Managed VOIP phones for two Corp offices and 15 properties for about 300 employees. Small projects handed down by IT Director.  • Return Merchandise Authorization  • Standardizing infrastructure for proper support  • Remote and local desktop support  • VOIP phones - create property accounts, port numbers and roll out phones at property  • Vendor management for offsite properties Security Engineer IV Mori Associates, Inc - Houston, TX June 2017 to April 2018 Risk assessment and compliance  IT Security Lifecycle Process skills/knowledge to ensure IT Security/ Security Management Services activities are conducted in accordance with task order and SOW requirements along with NIST/NASA(Agency) and JSC requirements. Review existing documentation and develop a detailed understanding of the function and operation of assigned information systems and apply mid-level expertise in IT and knowledge of IT Security management principles to ensure that the organization is compliant with all Agency IT Security documentation, reporting and implementation requirements. Provides guidance to the organization through the Assessment and Authorization (A&A) process. Maintains awareness of organizational activities and generates/provides input to the following documentation:    • IT security plans, testing procedures and results,  • Vulnerability Scanning (Nessus) and tool to apply the fixlet's for correction (BigFix)  • Standard operating procedures, emergency procedures, contingency plans, disaster recovery plans  • Memoranda of understanding with interfacing systems,  • User rules/procedures, user/program manuals, risk assessment, backup procedures, A&A processing documents and statement, and verification reviews and site inspections.  • Assists the organization with monitoring/assessing security controls for IT systems, assuring a continuous state of compliance with all IT security regulations and requirements.  • Provide periodic reports on the state of regulatory compliance, plan development and approval status of significant issues relating to IT management and information security.  • Ability to analytically resolve problems that may arise and determine preventative measures. User Lifecycle Management (IAM) Sr. IT Analyst TransCanada-Columbia Pipeline Group - Houston, TX 2015 to 2016 Focused on supporting IAM and the tools (Hitachi) of automation to ensure improved processing and governance of IAM instances. Instrumental key role in completing successful company separation for IAM processing. Successfully implementation of the IAM automation tools, Hitachi ID Identity Manager, Password manager and Privileged Access Manager. Supporting all IAM needs to the corporate enterprise.  • Run reports for daily health check of tools, work any IAM related issues to resolution and provide status to management  • Work with project managers and service provider personnel to help track and monitor projects that meet business needs and adhere to the agreed-upon service levels.  • Help drive resolution of security operational and service-based issues, reviewing, analyzing and reporting on the service provider operations as directed by the ULM management.  • Coordinate with 3rd party service provider to manage daily IAM application support including user provisioning and de-provisioning.  • Maintain solid understanding of the service providers IAM operations and service delivery capabilities and processes.  • Resolve or escalate issues related to IAM operations in a timely manner.  • Ensuring the service provider is adhering to the company policies, procedures and standards.  • Confirm that the IAM and procedures documentation are available and kept up to date for 3rd party provider.  • Assist with IAM IT security and awareness training program development and delivery. subject matter expert (SME) IBM CORPORATION - Houston, TX 2008 to 2015 Houston, Texas 2008 - 2015  Identity and Access Management (IAM) Security/Risk Management and Governance  Focused on Command and Control to engage in activities for continued compliance with customer quality and continuous provision of excellent services to the client. Reviewed customers' security policy and technical specifications annually. Provided on-call support (23X7) with immediate response required. Supported 5 IBM Service Delivery managers. Managed project called File share and Active Directory security group cleanup with yearly automated audit email notification to data owner. Outstanding verbal and written communication skills, with an ability to express technical concepts to all levels of management. Demonstrates initiative and functions well in high-pressure situations and tight deadlines.  • Provided metrics for compliancy by running reports and managing inventory for production servers, reviewing privileged and non-privileged access.  • Served as subject matter expert (SME) for identity and access management in active directory, partnering with ID Admin team located in Boulder CO in leading transition and current steady-state support.  • Oversaw process scope by managing expectations and scope creep, enabling on time delivery while achieving customer satisfaction and focusing on signed contract services.  • Reported and managed non-compliance issues found and provided solution within required time frames of 30, 60, or 90 days as directed by contracted services.  • Provided infrastructure support for client legal department, facilitating access to litigation eDiscovery items.  • Delivered security and technical support to numerous IBM and Hess IT support teams during transition for Activity directory and exchange administration for end user support.  • Verified accuracy of documentation passed on during transition for local IT support to IBM support teams.  • Executed administration support for Maximo ticketing system. Provided access to client and IBM support personnel for ticketing problem resolutions.  • Configuration Management and Change control  • Light working duties learning tools MIM, Azure, FIM and AADConnect for future client support Senior Data Security Specialist Hess Corporation November 1997 to 2008 Provided global IT Services for Identity access management to over 8000 users in Active Directory. SME for Active Directory. Administered Citrix Farm support. Supported SAP security administration for the SAP ERP team including building profiles, compliance calibration, and reviews for separation of duties, along with reviews for Sarbanes Oxley compliance.  • Investigated and troubleshot issues with access to shared data or applications, as well as remote access for users or automated processes, providing timely issue resolution.  • Promoted and implemented active directory creation of user templates to assist the IAM ID provisioning team, ensuring each OU structure user was accessing open local data access and local exchange distribution lists critical for communication purposes.  • Applied file-level and share-level security for environment of over 800 servers.  • Coordinated with all levels of business clients in all phases of new projects.  • Provided global support in responding to technical security issues for over 8,000 business clients.  • Provided global support to third-party service desk / help desk personnel.  • Secured cash flow for Treasury transactions (JP Morgan and JP Morgan Chase Receivables).  • Administered applications for business finance customers including Hyperion Financial Management, Apollo, GTM, ENFOS, and Tempest. Education Bachelor in Business Administration in Business Administration Sam Houston State University - Huntsville, TX Skills Exchange, Maximo, Remedy, Nessus, Pki, Vpn, Rsa, Citrix, Remote access, Vm, Vmware, Erp, Sap, Mainframe, Mvs, Vbscript, Hyperion, Blackberry, Uat, Sql Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/patriciadturk Additional Information Technical Skills    Platforms:  Activity Directory, Exchange Administration, Window servers 2008 and 2012, Linux, Citrix, Mainframe-MVS, VM, PKI  Vmware infrastructure client software, SAP, MS SQL    Applications:  MS Office Suite, Maximo, GSMRT, Remedy, Hyperion Financial Management, Apollo, GTM, ENFOS, and Tempest, Remote Access software/VPN, RSA token assignments, Blackberry Administrator, SAP Administration for ERP and Citrix Farm Administration. Unifi Video & Voice Controllers    Databases: SQL and Access  Tools:  MS tools for AD, MIM, Azure, FIM, AADConnect, IBM Tools: Compliance tools (UAT). ICODE, OS extractors, Hitachi Tools, Identity Manager (RBAC), Password manager and Privileged Access Manager, Exchange User Administration tool, Windows Administration tools, Vmware infrastructure client software, eDiscovery tools: IE, StoredIQ, Case Tracker and Legal Hold Pro, VBScript, PowerShell, BigFix and Nessus (vulnerability Scanning tool), Zoho One.