Access Audit and Remediation Analyst Access Audit and Remediation <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Access Audit and Remediation Analyst Bronx, NY Work Experience Access Audit and Remediation Analyst Starwood Hotels and Marriott - GLOBAL BUSINESS SERVICES February 2016 to December 2018 Reducing risk by eliminating inappropriate access in most sensitive systems. Review existing and proposed tools and provide input into how they can best be leveraged for the deliverables.  • Reporting and status updates for Information Security, IAM and division/GPT leaders Strong relationship required with, system owners, HR, run teams and admins, divisions, property level IT Strong relationship critical within IAM team and with Security architecture  • Document and coordinate cleanup plan  • Execute plan to clean up enterprise LDAP and Active Directory accounts  • Develop and launch ongoing, tactical maintenance program  • Define integration path with IAM  • Creation of analysis and remediation plan  • Understand how to best use clean up tools provided and to provide input on additional tools currently under review  • Execute a prioritized user account cleanup of enterprise LDAP and Active Directory environment  • Work closely with system owners, HR, system run teams, IAM project and other stakeholders to quickly remove inappropriate access  • Define and launch ongoing maintenance program with stakeholders  • Reporting and status updates for the Information Security Team Advisory IT Specialist - IAM System Engineer IBM - GLOBAL BUSINESS SERVICES August 2011 to November 2015 Advised and supported to implement enterprise applications like Oracle Identity Analytics (OIA), Symantec ClearWell for Legal Hold and Cloud based Office 0365. Developed Strategy and Roadmap visions, oversaw Business Processes and Technical mappings, and interface with other enterprise applications.  ? Identity and Access Management (IAM): Coordinated the requirement gathering and participated on design, develop, UAT and implementation of Oracle Identity Analytics (OIA) for National Grid Identity Access Management. I worked as a System Engineer and Business Analyst in the project. I have performed the following tasks for the project:    * As a System Engineer, I have designed developed and implemented interfaces in Java with Microsoft Active Directory, SunOne LDAP, and applications that use Microsoft Active Directory authentication.  * Installed and configured OIA for National Grid  * Created global user feeds by combining HR and Active Directory data.  * Assisted application support team members in building interfaces with OIA.  * Worked on automating of application feeds to OIA  * As a Business Analyst, I have identified authoritative sources-SAP HR, Active Directory.  * Mapped identity attributes of HR and Active Directory with application feeds.  * Created questionnaire to collect application details then converted the questionnaires into requirements.  * Reviewed application based on the requirements then selected or rejected for OIA implementation.  * Reviewed orphan accounts and coordinated with business to mitigate risk.  * Reviewed privileged accounts with business and confirm proper access.  * Ran campaigns for data owner certification, resources owner certification, user access certification and Entitlement/Recertification.  * After campaigns follow-up on removing unauthorized and unnecessary access.  * Created custom reports using OIA report builder.  * Worked on Identity Data Warehouse, Access Certification, Role Engineering / Role Mining, Role Management, Audit and Reporting.  * Trained and handover OIA to application support team for day to day support.    This project was a part of a multiphase Identity and Access Management (IAM) Program. The project improved governance of computer system access to prevent unauthorized access to the National Grid network, systems and other data repositories. It was designed to mitigate the business risk and protect against current and evolving cyber threats. We review over 1,000 applications for OIA and selected 100+ applications to bring into IAM. OIA Interfaced with over 100 applications to collect data for governance review. Some of the major applications we implemented are:    1. CA SiteMinder  2. CAS  3. Corporate Security - AMAG  4. CRIS  5. Customer Service System - CS  6. DNCS  7. EMS NE - ABB Spider  8. EMS NY - Stagg  9. GIS ESRI  10. GIS Smallworld  11. IBM TIM  12. IBM TIM / TAM  13. MySAP GDFO  14. US SAP HR  15. iGMS (Gas Management System)  16. iScheduler  17. Manhattan Warehouse System  18. PowerPlant  19. Storms UK  20. Storms US  21. KEON UK  22. SAP HR    ? Manage Oracle ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning): Managed and provided Level 2 / Expert Support of Oracle Supply Chain Modules, OpenText, Symantec eDiscovery, Fleet Anywhere, Oracle Discoverer etc. Major task includes but not limited to: break/fix, configuration issues, troubleshooting, interface problems, software installations, and root cause analysis. Major applications interfaced worked with are PeopleSoft HR, Maximo (Work Management), Datamart, Allegro, Hyperion.  ? Office 0365 and ICE (Instant Messaging & meeting, Collaboration and Content, Email): Gathered requirements for Office 0365 and ICE upgrade global project. Identified and documented risk, issues and exceptions. Met with business and application support to identify impacted business areas and applications. Reviewed risks, issues and impacted business area details with Project Manager, Enterprise Architects and DR&S (Digital Risk and Security).  ? Implement Symantec ClearWell (Legal Hold Management System): Worked as a Lead Analyst to manage requirements, SLA, design workflows, and function as bridge between business, vendors and IS. I also worked with the vendors and IS in planning, and implementing of the ClearWell Legal Hold Management System. The ClearWell system interfaced with National Grid (NG) HR System, NG Digital Risk and Security, Microsoft Active Directory, Hewlett-Packard (HP) Helpdesk, Verizon Voice mail, Microsoft Exchange Server (email).  ? Office 0365 and ICE (Instant Messaging & meeting, Collaboration and Content, Email): Gathered requirements for Office 0365 and ICE upgrade global project. Identified and documented risk, issues and exceptions. Met with business and application support to identify impacted business areas and applications. Reviewed risks, issues and impacted business area details with Project Manager, Enterprise Architects and DR&S (Digital Risk and Security). TECHNICAL LEAD / PROJECT MANAGER NATIONAL GRID - Brooklyn, NY September 2006 to August 2011 Managed and implemented enterprise applications. Developed Strategy and Roadmap vision, and oversaw Business Process and Technical mapping. Created detailed project/deployment plans and schedules and implemented them.    Notable Projects include:  ? Virtual Data Room (VDR) for US Legal: Analyzed and strategically selected a new VDR provider and consolidated for the company resulting in yearly savings of $350,000.  ? Dynamic Email Distribution Lists for Employee Communication & Brand: Lead the project to create Dynamic Email list for Employee Communication. Worked closely with PeopleSoft and Active Directory (AD) group to identify fields for PeopleSoft to AD interface. Also worked with email group to create Dynamic email distribution lists.  ? Display Screen Equipment (DSE) Training & Assessment: Worked with US Wellness to rollout DSE training to all national grid office users about 12,000.  ? Ethics Case Management System RFI and RFP: Step by step, sent out Request for Information (RFI), then Request for Proposal (RFP). Subsequently, We (Business and IS) went through vendor selection process and will proceed with the selected vendor.  ? Alert Driving: Coordinated with enterprise architect, network, and desktop engineering for smooth rollout Alert Driving. We rolled out Alert Driving training (hosted by www.alertdriving.com) to about 6,000 to 7,000 field drivers. Multiple devices (Itronix Handhelds, Kiosks) were used for the training.  ? Legal Hold and Record Retention: Worked with Legal, Email and Desktop Engineering to put in place the hardware, software and process necessary for a legal hold, which will safeguard emails of the legal hold custodians. IT Security Specialist Bronx, NY 2010 to 2010 Assumed the responsibility to complete a project in two weeks after a co-worker became sick. Successfully, completed the project on time. Application changes were migrated to production then employee data was imported from two HR system for the certification.  ? HotDocs for US Legal: Coordinated the review, purchase and installation of HotDocs. SOFTWARE ENGINEER/DEVELOPER/APPLICATION SUPPORT KNOW AS NATIONAL GRID - Brooklyn, NY August 2002 to September 2006 Designed, developed, implemented and maintenance enterprise applications using Oracle, Java, Shell Script on UNIX and windows platform.  Notable Projects include:  ? Memo Billing System: Developed and maintained Memo Billing System. Memo Billing is a chargeback mechanism that reports the actual IT costs of each Business Unit. Memo Bills provide our clients with a detailed understanding of the IT services they consumed during the month and the cost of providing those services.  ? OpenText eDOCS DM (Document Management): Upgraded Document Management System from PC Docs to OpenText eDOCS DM.  ? Account Payable Invoice Imaging System: Designed, developed and implemented Accounts Payable Invoice Imaging System, which provided hundreds of KeySpan employees' access to paper invoices images.  ? Fleet Anywhere/Focus Interface conversation form Visual Basic to Oracle PL/SQL: Converted 3 "Fleet Anywhere to Oracle ERP" interfaces from Visual Basic programming language to Oracle PL/SQL programming language.  ? Contact Management System: Converted paper and Microsoft Excel based contact management system to Microsoft Access based Contact Management System. Created multiple reports for contract renewal.  ? Compliance Filling Management System: Evaluated four internal applications. Based on the evaluation, SharePoint was selected as a solution.  ? Treasury Workstation: Consolidated bank accounts under one entity resulting in large saving for National Grid.  ? Ethics Case Management System Design and Database Conversion Project: Redesigned the Ethics Case Management System and moved the data to Oracle to meet SOX compliance.  ? Category conversion for Oracle ERP (PO, INV, iProcurement): Retired old categories then created new categories via SQL and PL/SQL coding. Created comparison report for business for result validation.  ? Oracle Tickmark Reporting: Installed, configured and supported Tickmark Setup Reporter for Oracle Applications 11i.  ? Oracle Discoverer: Installed, configured and supported Oracle Discoverer (Oracle Reporting Tool). DATABASE DEVELOPER MTA - NEW YORK CITY TRANSIT - New York, NY 1999 to 2001 Designed, developed and managed Civil Service Examination and Candidate Information Tracking Database System.  ? Used descriptive statistics with exploratory data analysis to create data summary reports.  ? Prepared highly detailed reports for senior level management, summarizing exam activity on monthly and annually.  ? Created database backup to enable retrieval of information in case of data loss due to hardware malfunction.  ? Developed Excel spreadsheet to prepare summary reports for inventories of technical equipment of the department.  ? Provided technical support for HR employees.    DEVELOPER TOOLS  Tode for Oracle, Oracle SQL Plus, Oracle Discoverer Administrator & End User, TickMark Setup Reporter for Oracle, Eclipse for Java, Exceed for UNIX, iPlanet Web Server, Microsoft FrontPage, Microsoft Visio. Education M.B.A. in Management Dowling College B.B.A. in Computer Information System Baruch College Skills Database, Jdbc, Microsoft access, Mysql, Oracle, Oracle 11i, Oracle discoverer, Pl/sql, Sql, Sybase, Discoverer, Hummingbird, Iis, Java, Jsp, Erp, Document management, Asp, Internet information server, Tomcat, Auditing Additional Information SKILLS  Systems    ? Risk Management System - Nucleus  ? FleetAnywhere - Asset and Maintenance Management System  ? Document Management System - OpenText  ? Oracle Tickmark: Oracle Setup Audit Tool  ? Oracle Discoverer: Reporting Tool for ERP  ? Memo Bill: IT Cost Transparency System  ? PlanView: Time Keeping System  ? RiskMaster: Risk and Claims Management System    Database    ? Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle Discoverer  ? Microsoft SQL Servers, Microsoft Access  ? MySQL Database  ? Sybase    Programming Language    ? Java, JSP, Java Beans and JDBC, HTML  ? Visual Basic, ASP  ? Object Oriented Programming C++  ? PHP, Perl  ? Unix Shell Script    OS and Web Server    ? Microsoft Windows NT, IIS (Internet Information Server)  ? Unix (AIX, Sun Solaris)  ? Apache Tomcat 4.0    Others  ? OpenText Document Management (eDocs)  ? OpenText Record Management  ? Installation and troubleshooting all Windows and related software    PROFESSIONAL COURSES COMPLETED  ? Oracle University    ? Oracle Discoverer Administrator  ? Oracle Discoverer for End User  ? Oracle SQL  ? Oracle PL/SQL  ? Oracle 11i Asset Management    ? American Management Association  ? Information Technology Project Management  ? Hummingbird  ? Hummingbird Document Management  ? Hummingbird Document Retention  ? VERITAS  ? i3 - Application Performance Management Solution for Oracle