Information Security Engineer (Consultant) Information <span class="hl">Security</span> Engineer (Consultant) Information Security Engineer (Consultant) - The Salesforce Company Seattle, WA ITIL Certified IT Professional assumes diverse roles and responsibilities across a wide range of industries, serving as a Business Systems Analyst, an IT Solutions Analyst, and IT Security Analyst / Engineer.    Full SDLC Experience: Design, Analysis, Construction/Development, and Deployment, as well as Support, Documentation, and Maintenance.    Enterprise Experience: Security Processes and Security Control Audits, SOX Compliance, Risk Management and Governance, and Data and System Migrations.    Full Spectrum of ITIL and Corporate Standardized Processes: Change Management, Incident Management, Investigation, Service Request, Case Management, IT Service Continuity Management, Configuration Management, Service Management, and Access Control Management.    Diverse Industry Experience: Finance, Technology, Telecommunications, Government, Manufacturing, Land Management, and Transportation. Work Experience Information Security Engineer (Consultant) The Salesforce Company - Seattle, WA February 2019 to Present Supporting Security Threat and Vulnerability Management Programs (TVM) with emphasis on communication and coordination of enterprise-level remediation, vulnerability validation, and customer engagement of ensure the patching and removal of vulnerabilities.    ? Communicating the vulnerabilities which apply to the affected business units.  ? Following up with vulnerability owners for vulnerability closure within SLA. Ascertain fix timelines and plans weekly.  ? Ensuring over SLA vulnerabilities go through the Governance, Risk and Compliance (GRC) exception process for risk assessment (RA) and risk acceptance/mitigation.  ? Tracking and ensuring unfixed Product Security vulnerabilities within a release, go through the release exception process.  ? Interface with appropriate Security Teams to clarify ambiguities.  ? Updating vulnerability tickets with current state and plans.  ? Providing daily/weekly analysis reports for weekly patching program overall. Information Security Specialist (Consultant) The Walt Disney Company via Mainz Brady Group - Seattle, WA June 2018 to January 2019 Supporting Global Information Security vulnerability management programs (EVM) with emphasis on communication and coordination of enterprise-level remediation, vulnerability validation, and customer engagement of ensure the removal of vulnerabilities.    ? Investigate solutions and mitigations for vulnerabilities present within the Enterprise, and propose remediation in collaboration with the subject matter experts.  ? Validate vulnerabilities remediated, including verification of ability to verify false positives (PCI and Perimeter).  ? Perform barrier analysis on vulnerability remediation and work with Information Security and Operations teams to identify and recommend corrective measures.  ? Support execution of vulnerability management program through meeting facilitation, activity measurement, customer engagement, and program education.  ? Perform data analysis of diverse and historical data sets in support of vulnerability management project and program decisions.  ? Support execution of vulnerability management program through meeting facilitation, activity measurement, customer engagement, and program education.  ? Updates security processes. Senior Enterprise Solutions Analyst (Consultant) Alaska Airline Group via Kelly Mitchell Company - SeaTac, WA October 2017 to May 2018 Supporting corporate acquisition (Virgin Airlines); challenges include complex integration across enterprise systems, applications, and operations. Responsibilities: requirements gathering and documentation (apps/systems/processes), system monitoring, user access before/after integration, document analysis, and use case definitions.    ? Establish, reinforce, and support a robust process for generation of critical support documentation.  ? Partner with developers, vendors, and business analysts to accurately document operational environments. Liaison between application delivery, 3rd party SaaS solution providers, and the infrastructure and operations team.  ? Create support documentation, including troubleshooting guides, decision trees, system diagrams, and escalation matrices, and run books that assist in expediting the mean time to recovery.  ? Supported the completion of the annual SOX Audit.  ? Obtained and reviewed evidence of compliance to support technical and SOX control requirements.  ? Facilitated interaction between the business stakeholders and internal and external Auditors. O365 Migration Engineer (Vendor) Microsoft via Microland Limited Company - Issaquah, WA September 2016 to September 2017 Demonstrated advanced implementation, support, and troubleshooting capabilities with Office 365 suite of services, including business systems planning and scheduling, as well as compliance with design and deployment standards. Completed migrations, such as Exchange to Exchange and Exchange to Office 365.    ? On a very tight deadline, migrated "on premise" Exchange mailboxes to O365 in a hybrid configuration, collaborating with peers and project team to keep project on schedule.  ? Provided tier 1 & 2 support in a production environment, including documentation of support processes. Customers were very appreciative of our hard work and diligence.  ? Engaged with technical and management staff across the organization, including:  ? Other team members (Migrators/Engineers/Designers) on different shifts, with the goal to expand our resources and accelerate the project completion.  ? Management team so they could remove impediments and we could beat the deadline. Sr. Analyst, Enterprise Info Security (Consultant) T-Mobile via Aditi Staffing Company - Bellevue, WA March 2015 to September 2015 Within an enterprise role, contributed to SOX compliance monitoring, measurement, analysis, and the evaluation of security processes and procedures. Responsibilities also included assessing vulnerability risks, providing metrics-based reporting, supporting the testing/audit process, and establishing schedules and timelines for security projects.    ? Evaluated applications, network devices, and computers to assess the risk of vulnerabilities and threats, using Common Vulnerability Scoring System (CVSS v3.0); provided a full report to Business Systems Owners and Corporate Security Teams.  ? Reviewed and analyzed data pertaining to information system functions relative to SOX compliance, as well as for ISMS/ISO 27001/2, NIST 800 series, PCI DSS 3.1, and CPNI for security industry standards.  ? Conducted risk assessments and control identifications, and planned internally and in support of external audits.  ? Created an Excel program that provided management with reports and metrics related to a Security Patching Program with drill down to details, such as product lines, owner, program version/software version, patching schedule, and status of systems/network/devices just to name a few. Senior Business Systems Analyst Crowley Company - Seattle, WA August 2012 to February 2015 In a senior analyst role, made contributions throughout the full SDLC process for a manufacturing company.    ? Streamlined processes for the Audit Schedule Program (transportation) to provide government compliance documentation for quick audit reviewing/closing.  ? Created an improved method for sending all updated documentation to boats underway for safety and incident responses, ensuring HQ had up-to-date safety procedures and incident reporting methods.  ? Analyzed and migrated data, and developed automated custom reporting functionality (SaaS/3rd-party software).    Planning: ? Created project scope and objective by conducting extensive research for project plan.  Analysis:  ? Developed business process and functional requirements, and translated to system requirement specifications, including functional specifications for process refinement and automation.    Construction:  ? Interfaced with corporate/business units for testing (User Acceptance /Quality Assurance Test).  ? Built a process for Document Management Systems with improved document controls (review, approval, retention versions, destruction, and recovery.)  ? Created a model, and analyzed data from a computing technical view, and integrated into an overall computing system and network architecture.    Deployment:  ? Trained documentation teams; prepared and presented training to internal customers and system users.  ? Provided SaaS application training: Audit Program Schedule and Document Management.    Compliance:  ? Performed SSQE compliance audits (ISO9001/14001), and implemented corrective actions to adhere to federal/state/local regulations, including SOX 404 control for user security access.    Operations/  Management:    ? Supported systems utilized by the functional areas related to Safety, Security, Quality, and Environmental (SSQE) operations.  ? Managed and administered a SharePoint site for the SSQE department, including workflows, sites, and permissions. Business Intelligence / Functional Manager (Vendor) Microsoft via ATOS Company - Issaquah, WA February 2012 to April 2012 Served in a management role within a BI/Analytic reporting environment with a focus on Lean/Six Sigma techniques and ITIL processes, with the goal to work collaboratively to improve performance while simultaneously adhering to best practices in service delivery.    ? Analyzed, researched, and evaluated business systems and processes to establish, verify, and document business rules, business process models, business user requirements, functional and corporate requirements, and technical designs.  ? Formulated and documented proposed future states for processes, using Lean/Six Sigma techniques.  ? Facilitated and monitored the development of Quality Control (QC) and User Acceptance (UA) test cases and activities, validating and certifying that the delivered solution met the needs of the business as documented in the user requirements.  ? Used ITIL processes for Change Management, Configuration Management, Case Management, and Incident Management to support online games.  ? Led self-assessment and audit teams to identify and implement corrective action. Data and Systems Analyst / Functional Analyst - BCA Finance Boeing Company - Renton, WA August 2007 to April 2010 Provided communication, collaboration, and cohesion throughout the SDLC. Applied Agile/Scrum methodologies and Lean principles for support efforts and new developments.    ? Assisted senior management in defining the control objectives and monitoring compliance efforts.  ? Facilitated introduction of a new software for financial and marketing report services. Enabled senior management to quickly and easily view reports directly within a secure environment.  ? Led team to develop new features in existing software for the marketing team. Created a proposal for implementing new product features for existing airplane marketing systems that supported marketing promotion activities for all internal support teams and airline customers.    Planning:  ? Contributed to project scoping, including business needs analysis, solution recommendations, and cost-benefit analysis.  ? Involved in business case studies (assessing capability gaps, determining a solution approach, defining solution scope, and defining a business case)  ? Completed Disaster Recovery planning and testing.    Analysis:  ? Gathered and documented requirements, and translated into written functional specifications.  ? Utilized root cause analysis to support operational controls for new and emerging areas of risk, and implemented control requirements.    Design:  ? Developed test plans and scripts to validate system functionality and meet business requirements.  ? Participated in design reviews to validate against requirements.  ? Mapped end-to-end Financial, Tooling, Billing, and Marketing applications and data flows.    Construction:  ? Used ITIL processes for Change Management and Incident Management to support financial operations.  ? Reviewed test findings within the Internal/External Audit Team (SOX 302/404), and facilitated remediation of control gaps.  ? Performed user/system security administration tasks to meet SOX compliance.    Deployment:  ? Consolidated 200 processes down to 100 common processes across Finance Systems.  ? Executed test scripts based on test plans (User Acceptance Test and/or Quality Assurance Test).  ? Served as a liaison for business users throughout deployment. IT Security Analyst / Administrator- IT Enterprise Finance (Consultant) Weyerhaeuser via Adecco Company - Federal Way, WA May 2006 to July 2007 Supported and protected financial systems, applications, and data with responsibility for providing and analyzing access, reviewing and recommending security controls, and reviewing new technologies, as well as the identification, investigation, and resolution of security issues (SAP security access). Kept stakeholders updated at all times.  ? Conducted interviews, walkthroughs, and SOX assessments and testing to ensure compliance.  ? Performed application vulnerability assessments, and identified and prioritized security exposures; followed up with IT staff to remediate findings.  ? Trained process owners on how to minimize risk and use robust control processes. Senior System Support Specialist (Northwest IT Region) Fieldstone Mortgage Company - Bellevue, WA January 2005 to January 2006 Supported the build-out of a new office, performing a wide range of activities: set up client/server systems, built laptops/desktops for in-house and remote use, and created accounts for logins and emails.  ? Implemented a network design plan that included running cables, setting up server racks, routing, and phone lines. Responsible for network/server capacity planning and monitoring.  ? Established system controls for financial reporting to ensure SOX compliance.  ? Coordinated all IT audits, including report reviews and improvement recommendations.  ? Supported Cisco Security Agent (CSA) and Web Citrix client (TMO) for secure connection and database applications. Education Highline College December 2020 Bachelor of Arts in Business Administration in Management Information Systems Western Washington University December 2001 Associate of Arts in Business Administration in Business Administration Highline Community College June 1999 Skills Asp, Dns, Iis, Iis 5, Security, Sharepoint, Metasploit, Qualys, Vpn, Clearcase, Clearquest, Active directory, Cisco, Exchange, Firewalls, Remedy, Scom, Tcp/ip, Virtual server, Rational, Information Security, PCI, It Security, Cissp