AWS Web Application Firewall Engineer AWS Web Application Firewall Engineer AWS Web Application Firewall Engineer Jackson, MI Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience AWS Web Application Firewall Engineer Ally Financial - Detroit, MI April 2018 to December 2018 • Completed Proof Of Concept with 3 different cloud vendors, Akamai Kona WAF, Imperva Securesphere WAF and Amazon AWS WAF.  • Created an organizational AMI template for other Cloud application projects that will incorporate the AWS Web Application Firewall, Elastic Load Balancer or API  gateway services following the OWASP Top Ten project.  • Created web security rules that block common attack patterns, such as SQL injection or cross-site scripting, and rules designed for specific applications.  • Ensured cloud architect meets the organizations Security Compliance requirements.  • Completed Akamai Web Performance Foundations Certification - 2018 Senior Presales Security Systems Engineer Barracuda Networks Inc - Ann Arbor, MI June 2014 to February 2018 Southeast US Regional Security Presales Systems Engineer  • Worked with regional sales teams to provide pre/post-sales support and close new deals/opportunities with customers.  • Architecture/designed some of the most complex network solutions using the latest security technology.  • Initiated pre-sales activities, consulting services and products - Developed projects' scopes and prepared proposals.  • Perform installations, troubleshooting, setups, and configurations in conjunction with partners at customer sites assisting with network configuration, gateways, dns, load balancing, HA Failover and firewall rules and more.  • Perform Proof of Concepts with prospective partners and customers, Provided demonstrations and presentations for lunch and learn lunch seminars.  • Provide presales design support for medium to high level complexity solutions for both new and existing customers.  • Certified Barracuda Systems Engineer - 2014, Certified NG Firewall Engineer - 2014, Certified Web Application Firewall Engineer -2016, Certified Email Security Gateway Engineer - 2014, Certified Web Security Gateway Engineer - 2014 Senior System Analyst HCL America Ltd - Jackson, MI January 2012 to June 2014 • Member of Network outage team, NetScout Administrator monitoring, troubleshooting & reporting for Network and Application performance for state wide infrastructure.  • Upgraded client's IDF, MDF rooms & Data Centers network infrastructure throughout the State of Michigan.  • Ensured all sites met IT fast requirements, NERC requirements and Federal regulations requirements for the organization.  • Team member of IFS, DC operations and level 2 offshore network support.  • Troubleshooting from Dmarc to Cisco Catalyst Series. Cisco Meraki. Cisco stackable switches, chassis switches, enterprise routers, small remote routers; network communication protocols (TCP/IP, DHCP, etc.), network communication hardware.  • Replaced Cisco Catalyst, Avaya, 3com switch infrastructure to Juniper Ex series.  • Received a recognition award from Business Partner for my participation in Disaster Recovery assessment.  • Juniper - JNCIS Certified Associate - 2013 Network Systems Engineer Digital Exposure - Jackson, MI December 2004 to January 2012 • Network Engineer installing, configuring and upgrading, cisco firewalls, cisco Wi-Fi AP's, switches and routers, servers in retail, hospitality and manufacturing environments.  • Migrated Novell file servers to windows servers. Diagnosed network errors to the dmarc for NOC operations. Completed installations and audits for windows servers, apache servers, firewalls and switches.  • Supported Windows and Linux operating systems including OS deployments, software upgrades, patching, configuration and troubleshooting. Supported production web and application servers, including deploying, configuring and troubleshooting applications running on IIS, Apache and/or other technologies. Experiences with enterprise routers, network communication protocols (TCP/IP, DHCP, etc.), network communication hardware. Information Systems Supervisor TLC Community Credit Union - Adrian, MI February 2001 to December 2004 • Managed the Credit Unions Information's Systems department and network administrator in accordance with the organization's policies and applicable laws, including budgets, hiring, training & reviews.  • Supported Windows and Linux operating systems including OS deployments, software upgrades, patching, configuration and troubleshooting.  • Created the disaster recovery planning committee, to ensure credit union always has a tested high availability environment and tested working disaster recovery plan. Created Email training for employees.  • Ensured TLC is Sarbanes-Oxley, SOX and PCI compliant. Planned, budgeted and architected organizations security and hardware upgrades. Created security policies and runbooks for the organization security ongoing security program.  • Met with Board members monthly to update the status on the organizations data compliance for their members.  • TLC received the highest security assessment scores in 3 different audits after my changes to the network infrastructure and policies.  • Obtained MCSE Certification with IIS. Plant IT Systems Administrator Libbey Owens Ford - Clinton, MI July 1999 to February 2001 Plant Closed)  • Managed and supported Clinton Modular Plant networking infrastructure and technical equipment.  • Administrating new internal staff with communication and network applications.  • Managed technical department accounts AP and budget. Maintained financial management with asset control. Applied the Six Sigma Standards.  • Managed environment (LAN, WAN, routers, switches, cabling, etc.), server operating systems (Windows, Linux, Netware, etc.), directory services, integration, network based printing systems, Exchange Email and telecommunication hardware and software (PBX5, etc.); experience with network management systems including HP Open View. Network Field Engineer Compucom Systems - Clearwater, FL March 1996 to June 1999 • Field network engineer providing technical expertise installing, configuring, and managing HP windows server's, cisco network hardware in the Tampa Bay area.  • Installation & maintenance of servers for Data Centers and Call Centers. Maintaining work orders and RMA's for hardware issues with equipment.  • Met SLA with equipment recovery time.  • Key engineer in the 130 server HP Contract upgrade at the Home Shopping Club.  • Project Engineer infrastructure upgrade Lee Memorial Hospital, Fort Meyers, Fla.  • Field Engineer Raymond James Financial (Y2K upgrade)  • Field Engineer Florida Power (TECO)  • Vendor Certs. HP, Cisco Education Barracuda University - San Jose, CA 2014 to 2017 JNCIS in Information Security Baker College - Jackson, MI 2012 to 2013 Skills VPN, Migration, Cisco, Juniper Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/nwguxjn-0hevsbuc Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.