Information Security Analyst Information <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Information Security Analyst - Fairway Mortgage LLC Richardson, TX Work Experience Information Security Analyst Fairway Mortgage LLC - Dallas, TX May 2017 to Present • Participates in change management process  • Create the development and maintenance of security awareness training  • Participate in evaluating, recommending, implementing, and troubleshooting security tools  • Technical knowledge of Internet security, networking protocols, and related technologies, including IDS/IPS, firewalls, content filtering, and packet inspection  • Monitoring and analyzing network traffic, security events and logs using a security information and event management solution, looking to detect anomalous activity and participate in incident detection and response  • Follow Information Security/Technology procedures and guidelines Active Directory Administrator March 2016 to May 2017 Work with IT Infrastructure teams to troubleshoot application issues when users are unable to access or authenticate to system  Work with IT management to ensure systems are in compliance with overall IT policies and standards  • Managed User Accounts on WindowsNT platform (Creation, Deletion, Permissions, and VPN Access).  • Developed organizational units in Active Directory (AD) and managed user security with group policies.  • Created and maintained email addresses and distribution lists in MS Exchange.  • Use Manage Engine program to track ticket progress and enter updates to have on going record of case activity till resolution is reached and ticket closed    Professional experience IT Analyst - Shift Lead CompuCom Systems, Inc - Dallas, TX November 2012 to March 2016 Dallas, TX  • Supported over 30 accounts at once with clients calling in from all over the world.  • Provides day-to-day technical support to employees for network infrastructure and internal desktop systems software and hardware. Performs general maintenance tasks and resolves complex problems immediately, while more complex issues are identified to a higher level of support. Installs, configures and troubleshoots desktop systems, workstations, servers and network. Maintains passwords, data integrity and file system security for the desktop environment. Communicates highly technical information to both technical and nontechnical personnel. Recommends hardware and software solutions, including new acquisitions and upgrades. May participate in development of information technology and infrastructure projects. Conduct training programs designed to educate an organization's computer users about basic and specialized applications. May involve use of problem management databases and help desk system  • Reviewed calls and tickets from peers and coworkers to help them improve and maintain quality in calls/tickets.  • Trained new hires on all accounts to better prepare them.  • Worked with over 7 different IT ticketing systems and other IT solution desks (i.e., InfoCrossing, IBM, ServicveNow, Reemedy, ETC.) to resolve issues.    Software experience:  • Extensive knowledge of MS Office (Word, Excel, Outlook, etc.)  • Virtualization (Citrix, VMware, VirtualBox)  • VPN (Cisco VPN, SSL VPN, Aventail, Nortel, etc.)  • RSA Console (Hard, Soft and Mobile tokens)  • Active Directory and Directory and Resource Administrator  • Password Managers (Quest, Hitachi, p-synch)  • Telnet  • Remote tools (RDP, Remote Assistance, VNC, etc.)    Professional experience INTRA DAY Reporter Verizon 972 - Irving, TX June 2012 to November 2012 Responsible for monitoring, managing, networking and routing inbound call center traffic on a regional and national basis for the National consumer sales and billing customers to ensure optimum service levels including Public Utilities Commission mandated service level requirements by state. Call routing/monitoring/forecasting /scheduling. Following systems were used Genesys -IRD, ICM-PACR, Avaya IPACD. Forecasting/scheduling and Analytical skills to include the ability to monitoring rep coverage, queue size and service.    Professional experience Kate Spade - CSR Express Staffing - Plano, TX January 2012 to June 2012 To provide customer service for web order clients for Kate Spade, via VoIP, while maneuvering on several applications to determine the correct product accepting personal information and obtaining to the rules and regulations of company policies. Maintaining a pleasant experience for the client. Produced quality scores in the high 90's. Maintain AHT 21 percent lower than goal.    Professional experience Resource Planner Irving, TX September 2011 to December 2011 • Generate a rolling forecasted call volume.  • Using Erlang C calculation to determine staffing to maintain SVL, ABN and OCC to business needs.  • Using Microsoft Excel to update daily peak volume percentage, peak hour percentage, and peak seating percentage.  • Communicate to directors; managers and supervisor about any short falls, overage and staffing concerns for their department.  • Using WFM software to create weekly schedules.    Professional experience WorkForce Management Analyst Monitronics - Branch, TX July 2009 to July 2011 As a Work Force Management (WFM) Analyst I was responsible for staffing, forecasting and intra-day management for the Customer Contact Center. Also I was in a position to ensure customer expectations are met by analyzing data and creating staffing plans for more than 100+ employees to meet intended service levels. Through the use of workforce management systems, the WFM Analyst partners with Contact Center managers and supervisors to establish staff scheduling and intra-day management.  • Create and maintain customer service staffing schedules for upcoming weeks/months for phone and non phone activities to achieve an 80% service level goal and 5% abandon percentage goal.  • Prepare forecasts for upcoming weeks/ months and rolling twelve months for inbound, outbound and support teams to determine appropriate staffing requirements.  • Manage intra-day activities for inbound, outbound, processing and support customer service management to ensure resources are balanced appropriately and meet established service goals.  • Monitor real-time adherence to schedule and contact supervisors/leads when appropriate to maximize productivity and contact center performance.  • Schedule and enter exceptions for pre-planned activities such as training, meetings and e-learning.  • Maintain WFM software (Blue Pumpkin); includes setup of new associates, changes to department and supervisor, and removal of associates upon resignation/termination.    Professional experience Sr. CMS / TCS Analyst Command Center - Fort Worth, TX July 2004 to July 2009 Manager- Incorporate all Operations Specialist responsibilities to delegate daily tasks, projects, and ad-hoc work effectively.    • Provide training and developmental coaching to direct reports, ensuring consistent service delivery to internal and external customers.  • Scheduling and time management of Command Center staff.  • Interact with all levels of management for clients' business needs and strategy, including creation, distribution and logging of ad-hoc and scheduled reporting.  • Provide analyzed statistical data, and make suggestions to apply to the staffing and forecasting decision making process.  • Staff effectively for optimal use of company and client resources by actively taking part in the call volume forecasting and human resource pipeline processes.  • Communication of all gathered trending, process, and strategic changes to Operations group, internal contacts, and clients appropriately.  Operations Specialist- Execute IB/OB campaign plans through real-time workload monitoring, light tech support, and workforce management.  • Tier one help desk, taking inbound troubleshooting calls to evaluate the situation and to respond to information to create and solve trouble tickets from internet connection to applications.  • Monitor and track call queue goals for multiple inbound/outbound call center agents in multiple disciplines and skills, allocating workload accordingly.  • Analyze and update staffing data, using eWorkforce Mgmt.  • Effectively prioritize and process trouble tickets and ensure proper escalation of system outages, staffing shortages, or any other challenges to production workflow.  • Develop and recommend changes to staffing and workload allocation for optimal adherence to client mandated goals for service level, abandonment, and ASA.    Professional experience Contractor Lake, TX, US March 2004 to July 2004 Set Up, Operate, and Manage Restaurants for high end gyms    Professional experience Restaurant Manager Sonny's Bryant Smoke House Inc - Grapevine, TX June 2002 to March 2004 Professional experience Restaurant manager Host Marriott Service - Grapevine, TX October 1997 to December 2001 Professional experience Operation Specialist second class United States Navy - Coronado, CA June 1990 to April 1999 To maintain Combat Information Center (CIC) displays of strategic and tactical information, including various plotting boards and tables depicting position and movement of submarines, ships and aircraft as well as tote boards containing data relevant to the tactical picture. Education High school or equivalent Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: E4