Technical Support Specialist II Technical Support Specialist II Upper Marlboro, MD Seeking a position as an Information Assurance Professional. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Technical Support Specialist II Portsmouth Public Schools - Portsmouth, VA 2009 to February 2019 • Provided desktop support for Windows 7, Windows 8, and Windows 10.  • Installed and configured customized software (TestNav, Inspiration 9, Photostory 3, Kidspiration 3, ReadOutLoud, etc ).  • Provided support for interactive boards (Promethean and BenQ)  • Installed and configured antivirus software.  • Create user accounts using Active Directory  • Used Microsoft System Center for imaging computers and applications distribution.  • Used Dame Ware and System Center for remote administration.  • Supported the organization's multimedia systems.  • Checked for systems and database vulnerabilities, and installed required patches.  • Performed systems upgrades. System Administrator Ciber Inc - Newport News, VA 2006 to 2009 Monitored the US Army Distance Learning System (DLS) network which provided  training to service members in the United States and abroad.  • Created accounts and assigned permissions.  • Pushed training software to servers at military installations in the US and abroad.  • Resolved network issues through the remote administration of Tivoli Netview.  • Documented and logged all issues reported by the customers into an incident  reporting system (Remedy) to facilitate tracking, workflow management, escalation and resolution.  • Used Dame Ware for remote administration. Network Support Tech. II Anteon Corporation - Portsmouth, VA 2004 to 2006 Created user accounts and granted permissions to shared resources using Active  Directory.  • Conducted security scans to identify and address systems vulnerabilities.  • Designed and developed Microsoft Access Databases.  • Provided training to clinical staff on new technologies and applications.  • Maintained system integrity.  • Communicated technical issues to upper management and key stakeholders. Information Technology Coordinator OEMI - Portsmouth, VA 2002 to 2004 Performed security scans of servers and workstations to verify adequate virus  protection, patches, and compliance with corporate regulations.  • Provided technical support for an in-house clinical database system, VAECS.  • Created user accounts and granted permissions to shared resources using Active  Directory.  • Established security controls for clinical database.  • Designed and developed Microsoft Access Databases.  • Provided training to clinical staff on new technologies and applications.  • Submitted a monthly report of clinical database usage. IT Security Analyst Accounting Ease - Virginia Beach, VA 2000 to 2002 Virginia  • Monitored network for intrusion.  • Installed antivirus software and patches.  • Created accounts in Active Directory and assigned permissions.  • Maintained clients' database integrity and confidentiality.  • Performed Database backups.  • Established security controls on accounting database. Hospital Corpsman United States Navy - Portsmouth, VA July 1995 to July 2000 Education PhD Candidate in Information Assurance and Cybersecurity Capella University, School of Business Technology - Minneapolis, MN May 2015 to Present Master's in Communication Technology Strayer University-Virginia - Chesapeake, VA July 2003 to May 2006 Bachelor of Science in (Cum Laude) - Computer Information Technology Norfolk State - Norfolk, VA September 1996 to May 2000 Skills Desktop Support, Information Technology, Help Desk, It Specialist Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: E-3 Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) Present