Job Seeker Norfolk, VA Veteran with over 11 years in Informational Technology, over 5 years in the Fire Service and 20 years in military leadership training. Solution oriented and resourceful candidate who provides leadership in learning environments and in matters pertaining to training. Comprehensive system analysis, network administration and project management experience. Certified professional with expertise in configuring, programming, debugging computer networks, working on multi-faceting prototypes, managing life cycle development process, and performing needs analysis to define opportunities for improved technology solutions. Proven diagnostic abilities with attention to detail and the ability to work effectively in a fast-paced environment. Ensures quality, accuracy, and completeness of all projects and their accompanying reports. Demonstrate abilities to set strategic direction while obtaining superior results. Exemplifies above stellar customer service and high-performance standards directly focused on goal achievement of computer resolution. Known for implementing organizational initiatives. Able to think strategically and programmatically. Unites States Army Veteran. Work Experience Artech - Norfolk, VA September 2018 to December 2018 Job Type: 40 hours per week, Full-Time  Supervisor: Patrick McCoy  • Problem determination, network administration, and computer software maintenance.  • Install software with SCCM, service accounts with Active Directory, resolution of desktop hardware and software problems through the effective use of available technical resources  • Installs, Moves, Adds, and Change (IMAC) activities, Data backup and restore accounts for clients.  • Resolved problems and performing IMAC's within Service Level Agreement (SLA) objectives in Service Now (SNOW)  • Demonstrated customer communication, business skills for direct customer interaction and customer satisfaction.  • Perform installation, configuration, troubleshooting, and maintenance of current Microsoft Windows Systems and Workstation products. Onsite IT Manager Hemmers Bach - Chesapeake, VA October 2016 to February 2018 Job Type: 40 hours per week, Full-Time  • Carry out administrative functions, Review assignments for accuracy and quality, Give direction and technical guidance to staff, Coach and mentor team members, Delegate responsibilities, and execute company policies.  • IT site manager regarding centrally hosted systems including email set up (Office 365), Active Directory administrator, security policy compliance, risk assessment and risk management.  • 2nd Level Technical support including hardware, software (operating system imaging), Installation of applications using pre-defined configurations (Acronis); Provide Hands & Eyes Support for Network and Server Data room.  • Troubleshoot and resolved software and hardware issues; Escalate issues that could not be resolved at 2nd level to the appropriate outsourced contractors within the IT structure using Service Now.  • Created incidents and resolved incidents daily. Attend meetings, trainings or seminars, Work with other departments.  • Expresses information to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information; makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately. Security Analyst, Contractor Anthem - Virginia Beach, VA May 2016 to June 2016 Job Type: 40 hours per week, Full-Time  • Authenticated and integrated AIX Unix and Red Hat Linux systems with Microsoft's Active Directory service using the Centrify identity management software.  • Enabled Single Sign On (SSO) Identity on a wide range of machines, managed server permissions & groups through Active Directory; creating and resolving incidents using Service Now.  • Provided top-tier support for 1 or more of the information security technologies for Access Control, Application Security, Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery Planning, Cryptography, Information Security and Risk Management.  • Used PuTTY Connection Manager to run test scripts, check migrations Linux/Unix server connection to AD (Active Directory) servers and technical support for resolution of complex problems.  • Perform Information Technology work ensuring security policies, procedures, and measures are applied to information systems or networks  • Works with clients and customers to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services. Technical Support Analyst, Contractor Sentara Health - Virginia Beach, VA April 2016 to May 2016 Job Type: 40 hours per week, Full-Time  • Implemented new desktop applications and assisted with migration of existing applications.  • Maintained, repaired, and deployed IT hardware and Hospital flow charts hardware per current supported standards.  • Provided Level 1 LAN/WAN and supplemental Level 1 Communication Technology support to include data jack troubleshooting, network switch troubleshooting, hardware replacement, DHCP/DNS administration, and Level 1 protocol analysis.  • Updated problem management systems, as well as project and change request system, and communicate progress to clients. Desktop Support Analyst, Contractor Riverside Health - Newport News, VA March 2016 to March 2016 Job Type: 40 hours per week, Full-Time  • Responsible troubleshooting computer systems operating with Microsoft Windows, Microsoft Office, and various third-party vendor applications.  • Performed imaging and deployment of HP desktop computers, data migration and software installation.  • Utilized Microsoft System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM) 2007, SCCM Application Layering Tool (SALT) and Enterprise Remote Management Tool. Information Systems, Lead IT Asset Manager, Contractor TEK Systems - Chesapeake, VA April 2014 to December 2015 Job Type: 40 hours per week, Full-Time  • Provide technical leadership, monitor, facilitate, maintain and evaluate the activities of the support staff to ensure client requests are resolved in accordance to the company's SOP.  • Provided Tier 2 help desk support to diagnose and resolve user/network issues, closing incident tickets with Service Now (SNOW) Responsible for maintenance and accountability of overall stockroom and assets of value more than 1.7 million.  • Meticulously logged and tracked all inventory incoming/outgoing movements utilizing Lansweeper asset inventory tool. Reporting inventory to management via MS 2013 Lync, MS Outlook and MS Notes.  • Sharply monitored and maintained the warehouse ticking queue; identified trends and developed and recommended solutions to systemic problems to management.  • Organized and accurately established several large salvage operations between company and designated vendor for end-of-life equipment pickup.  • Compiled data in support of equipment and user relocations or system migrations and dealt with internal and external clients.  • Advised management on the type and frequency of user training needed on existing computer systems.  • Encrypted VIP, management, and all end-user Laptops and tablets using Dell Data Protection Encryption (DDPE) security software.  • Installed and updated security and other applications (Symantec, Threat Recon, SAP, etc.) physically and remotely using TeamViewer and Windows Remote Desktop. Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.  • Created, developed and maintained documentation of existing and newly created environments and processes to maintain standards and procedures for internal/external Knowledgebase/public service pages.  • Installed/tested software application for the acclivity and excellence of the company.  • Routinely performed minor hardware break/fix repairs and PC re-deployment preparations of returned field equipment, Apple and Android hardware (Smartphones, tablets and computers), Lync 2013 communication tool and MS Outlook 2013 daily. L2- Deskside Support, Contractor Peak Systems - Norfolk, VA January 2014 to March 2014 Job Type: 40 hours per week, Full-Time  • Performed routine activation/configuration of network and PC installation migration.  • Troubleshoot, maintain and resolve any PC, server, network and software related problems.  • Provided technical expertise, advice, and guidance to users on hardware, software, and network communications problems.  • Packaged, tested, deployed and updated software; created and maintained desktop images.  • Developed and delivered technical training based on identified user needs. Help Desk Training Technician, Contract Cubic Corporation - Fort Eustis, VA August 2012 to October 2013 Job Type: 40 hours per week, Full-Time  • Conducted online Distant Learning and media conflict resolution training; ensured mandatory training and forms were completed for Army personnel.  • Provided technical support via phone and Right Now trouble system to clients on how to access and complete online training; and how to identify and resolve future issues.  • Troubleshoot and resolved hardware, software and application related problems via remote computer repairs.  • Implemented ADP security procedures. Installed, uninstalled and configured Internet connections and web browsers; added Adobe products and corrected settings for optimal performance. IT Support Analyst, Contractor Right Direction Church International - Columbia, SC February 2012 to July 2012 Job Type: 40 hours per week, Full-Time  • Repaired, upgraded and resolved all computer software and hardware issues to ensure all community Hub computers were 100% operational.  • Installed, configured, updated and maintained all internal software and hardware resources including printers, laptops and client workstations.  • Provided technical support to IT staff and assisted end users with Tier 1 help desk support via phone, email, and remote access.  • Recommended system enhancements and identified and ensured corrective actions to solve discrepancies. IS Processing Administrator, Contractor AMCOL System - Columbia, SC March 2011 to December 2011 Job Type: 40 hours per week, Full-Time  • Built cables for the organization to ensure 80% continuing production.  • Provided Tier 1 and Tier 2 help desk support of desktop; diagnosed, repaired and upgraded computer systems software and hardware, including printers, copiers and scanners.  • Established, maintained, and deleted user account profiles; installed and configured new computers.  • Researched open IT support tickets; tracked, processed and input resolved issues into database using CAST reporting system.  • Tested Data programs with data templates; input and maintained data in VMware Management console. Computer Analyst Auditor, Contractor ADECCO - Columbia, SC February 2010 to October 2010 Job Type: 40 hours per week, Full-Time  • provide technical leadership, training and evaluate the activities of the support team to ensure client requests are resolved in accordance to established service level agreements  • Increased sales value of re-marketable products by 80%.  • Recorded the condition, functionality and specification of various products including: operating systems, processors, servers, printers, monitors and computer storage capacities.  • Removed proprietary/confidential corporate and clientele information from all asset bearing devices (PCs, laptops, servers, monitors and printers) via Blanco (a secure data destruction hard drive wiping system).  • Analyzed and interpreted system requirements and changes as needed when implementing new network processes and procedures.  • Diagnosed, assessed and conducted minor upgrades of damaged PCs, laptops, servers, monitors and printers for re-marketing or destruction.  • Performed implementation and upgrade tasks for systems and networks. Firefighter/EMT-B Navy Regional Fire and Rescue - Portsmouth, VA August 2001 to November 2007 Job Type: 40 hours per week, Full-Time  • Used a variety of special protective gear in situations where poisonous gases, radioactive materials, or hazardous biological products are involved. Fight fires in an installation environment presenting complex and hazardous firefighting situations; Directed water through turrets and hand lines to cool weapons and ammunition during rescue.  • Inspect properties that store, handle, and use hazardous materials to ensure compliance with laws, codes, and regulations. Present and explain fire code requirements and fire prevention information to engineers and construction workers  • Assisted the injured by applying knowledge and training for such purposes to: Use direct pressure and tourniquets to stop bleeding, Check the windpipe for obstructions, Perform cardiopulmonary resuscitation, Immobilize for safe transport, and Provide other assistance at the comparable level of difficulty.  • Maintain emergencies such as fires, work accidents or nuclear incidence on large ships and submarines behind a DOD secure and guarded environment. Senior Drill Instructor. Platoon Sergeant United States Army Reserve - Fort Jackson, SC March 1987 to August 2007 Job Type: 40 hours per week, Full-Time  • Serves as a team leader, managed, instructed and supervised 60-200 soldiers.  • Manage all in and out-processing actions on Army, Navy and Air Force military personnel, staff, and direct deployment and employment of personnel.  • Also Supported the administrative, personnel, and pay functions for military personnel.  • Provide guidance, assistance, service support, logistics and risk management to all military staff, faculty, and students.  • Liaison with Military Services and coordinate necessary communication to keep informed of recent changes in policies and regulations to senior and high ranked chain of command.  • Assist in the management of organizational policy and regulatory guidance for the military personnel attending the active mobilization duty.  • Ensure compliance with military personnel policies, directives, and procedures, identifying potential problem areas and develop solutions.  • Attend and participate in various meetings to identify overall problems and recommend alternative strategies to meet organizational needs.  • Performed specialized experience in administrative supervisory functions; resolving informal complaints, initiating minor disciplinary actions, leading team development meetings and conducting performance evaluations/ratings.  • Prepares tactical plans and training materials; and coordinates the implementation of operations, training programs, and communications activities.  • Coordinate inbound requirements with senior leadership, Sergeant Major, and Navy Training leadership, to process students once they offload to the ground to begin training Army, Navy and Air Force military personnel for combat. (97% Graduates per Class).  • Track and process officer and enlisted performance reports, training reports, and all promotion actions including promotion recommendation forms for military personnel. Education Masters of Divinity in Divinity Norfolk Theological Seminary and College - Norfolk, VA June 2016 Bachelor of Biblical Studies in Biblical Studies Norfolk Theological Seminary and College - Norfolk, VA June 2016 Associate of Science degree ITT Technical Institute - Columbia, SC December 2011 Associate of Science degree Tidewater Community College - Norfolk, VA May 2002