Manufacturing / Quality / Test Engineer Manufacturing / Quality / Test Engineer Staff Engineer - NATIONAL STEEL CORP, Iligan Works Utica, MI Work Experience Manufacturing / Quality / Test Engineer FORD MOTOR CO - Romeo, MI 2006 to 2019 Troubleshooting assembly equipment and test computers, developing enhancements to process and process equipment to ensure products were manufactured conforming to process specifications in component manufacturing and premium V8 engine assembly. Maintained department quality documents such as process operator documentation and repair procedures. Conducted quality activities such as Gage R&R, prepared documents for annual audits, generated quality metrics reports, conducted daily process audits, and coordinated vendor issues.  • Performed troubleshooting on the cause of frequent rotor oven furnace fires and recommended process change to prevent occurrence - a major contribution.  • Enhanced process documentation to error-proof assembly operations to prevent costly repairs.  • Black Belt projects to install a vacuum system to minimize the occurrence of main bearing debris costly to engine assembly productivity and scrap cost, and alternator assembly reject causes.  • Prepared and analyzed weekly and monthly reports used by senior management to make effective decisions in factory floor such as FTT, defects, and scrap.  • Ensured the daily Quality Operating System audits were completed in a timely manner. Security Auditor / IT Engineer FORD MOTOR CO - Wixom, MI 1999 to 2006 UNIX / Windows Server Auditor provided technical assistance to various internal Ford organizations to achieve GAO audit compliance. As IT Engineer in the Ford WAP acted as systems administrator.  • IT incurred no manufacturing delays due to computer downtime (equivalent to $10k/minute).  • Developed a PERL Script for fast analysis of computer security logs and increased security auditing that won a Ford IT BEST award.  • Originated and completed a Six-Sigma project that saved the company approximately $16k per month in telephone service charges for WAP. Project was used as a model for other Ford facilities. Senior Automation Systems Engineer NATIONAL STEEL CORP, Iligan Works - PH 1990 to 1997 SASE, Full Project Management: Designed, developed and implemented a Shop Floor Supervisory and Data Repository System project. The computer system interfaced with corporate mainframe orders database and mill process supervisory system that controlled GE FANUC PLCs and DMCs to translate sales order to mill production.  • Developed and defined the functional and technical computing requirements of the computer system including network, database, server configuration, equipment acquisition, and installation and commissioning of computer system.  • Project implemented on time and at budget. Operations Research Analyst 1987 to 1990 OR Analyst, was assigned to Corporate Planning.  • Developed a product mix optimization tool for Cold Rolling Mills using spreadsheet macros.  • Developed Linear Programming algorithm in FORTRAN to calculate an optimized production run of the billet steel making process to minimize production cost. Staff Engineer NATIONAL STEEL CORP, Iligan Works - PH July 1984 to August 1987 3 Years)  Assigned to 5-Stand Tandem Cold Rolling Mill construction project management team.  • Commissioning of electro-mechanical systems (hydraulic, pneumatic, lube) and mill HVAC A/C systems.    Shift Supervisor mechanical maintenance at mill commissioning leading skilled trade's crew.    Engineer Trainee (2 Years)  Engineering Management Trainee, part of an expansion program to develop new staff.  • Six-month intensive classroom training on various industrial engineering management tools.  • 18-months on-the-job in Operations, Plant Engineering and Maintenance, and Construction Project Management to act as supervisors / staff. Education MS in Engineering Management in Ford-EMMP Program WAYNE STATE UNIVERSITY - Detroit, MI Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering in Mechanical Engineering SILLIMAN UNIVERSITY Skills LADDER LOGIC, LINUX, MINITAB, MS SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER, ORACLE, PL/SQL, SQL, HTML, PERL, VISIO, SHELL PROGRAMMING, UNIX, UNIX SHELL, UX, HP-UX, PIVOT TABLES, RDBMS, EXCEL, MS VISIO Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/rsabolboro Additional Information Software proficiency: Unix Shell Programming, Perl, SQL, PL/SQL, C, HTML, Ladder Logic, Oracle RDBMS, MS SQL Server, Linux, HP-UX, Windows, Minitab, AutoCAD, MS Visio, Excel Macro, Excel Pivot Tables