IT Specialist <span class="hl">IT</span> Specialist IT Specialist - Walter Reed National Military Medical Center Germantown, MD Relationship- and solutions-focused information technology professional, with 5+ years of diversified work  experience in information systems and technology; network forensics; cybersecurity; team management and  leadership; relationship management; and award-winning customer service excellence. Solid expertise in  providing technical systems support for federal agencies, including DHS, DHA, SSA and DoD. Key assets include:  a solid work ethic; flexibility and adaptability; positivity and enthusiasm; openness to learning and exceling at any  given task, however challenging; working well with and being respectful of others; and focus on seamless task  completion. Currently, seeking a dynamic position in which to apply, enhance and grow existing skills and  experience; and contribute positively within a collaborative team environment.  Current Status: Active Secret Clearance    SPECIALIZED INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY CREDIENTIALS  Specialized Professional Development: Risk Management Framework 800-37A, May 2019; HDI CSR Customer  Support Cert, 2017; Security +, 2017 Work Experience IT Specialist Walter Reed National Military Medical Center - Bethesda, MD November 2018 to Present Responsible for managing special technical projects and auditing computer infrastructure for DoD compliance.  Informational Systems and Technology: Ensure desktop computers interconnect seamlessly with diverse systems, including associated validation systems, file servers, email servers, computer conferencing systems, application servers and administrative systems.  Cybersecurity Administration: Entrusted with managing permissions based upon agency through Active Directory. Run  group policy updates to enforce compliance with established protocols. Manage user accounts at all levels of the organization, such as permitting access to designated shared drives containing sensitive information for each individual  department upon request.  Leadership: Create, maintain and distribute reports of progress to senior management. Identify potential changes and system improvements to present to senior team leaders for consideration and implementation.  Project Management: Manage incoming calls and requests from start to completion for non-technical government  personnel, managing their expectations. Respond to calls and mitigate the issue at hand, documenting the protocols daily.  Identify, assess, log and resolve technical problems promptly using software applications such as Remedy and Landesk  portal. Oversee installs and peripheral devices (such as printers and scanners) related to desktop infrastructure, in accordance with department standards, per request.  Customer Relationship Management: Deliver quality customer service to staff with installation, configuration and ongoing usability of desktop computers, peripheral equipment and software. Diagnose problems by asking accurate,  concise questions in a professional and timely manner. Provide Tier III technical support to non-technical personnel.  Explain and document technical issues in a clear way to clients. Communicate remediation plans to users; provide status  updates; and record in knowledge base for future use. Received 2019 Customer Appreciation award for service excellence. Service Desk Analyst TEK systems - Fort Detrick, MD November 2017 to November 2018 Responsible for managing between 40 to 60 technical support calls a day and serving as administrator for the Windows 10 migration.  Informational Systems and Technology: Authored Standard Operating Procedures and training aids for technicians to assist in daily maintenance of networking equipment, including creating Outlook/ Exchange accounts; and restoring and  recreating profiles locally. Responsible for retrieving accounts after Windows 10 migration and ensuring data recovery.  Conducted operational and user acceptance testing, in cooperation with the customer support activities, and provided  software fixes to problems identified by the customer testing teams.  Project Management and Leadership: Prepared finalized time-sensitive documentation for routing through the management approval process. Tracked documents throughout their approval lifecycle to ensure final approval was  granted; or any changes/amendments to documentation were made and resubmitted for approval. Applied specialized  experience in tracking and monitoring workflow. Efficiently worked in handling multiple assignments under deadline and high-pressure situations, exercising independent judgment and discretion. Collaborated closely on initiatives within the  team and with other department contacts.  Cybersecurity Administration: Entrusted with managing SIPR accounts. Maintained NIPRnet and SIPRnet systems; and password, data integrity and file systems security across multiple systems. Monitored network drives containing sensitive  information and identified corresponding file share.  Customer Relationship Management: Established sound working relationships with all levels of personnel using tact  and professionalism while installing approved software; addressing VoIP phone troubleshooting issues; and conducting  voicemail password resets. Instructed users on proper hardware/software utilization. Assisted customers with account  creation across multiple applications.  Technical Support: Provided 24/7 Tier I/I.5 technical support to the DoD, US Army and government agencies.  Responded to inbound calls/emails in a timely and professional manner. Accurately documented all interactions in the Remedy tracking system. Troubleshooted Citrix, VPN and VDI end-user issues. Escalated issues not able to be resolved in  a timely manner by following designated escalation procedures. Protective Security Officer Centerra Group, Social Security Administration (SSA) - Urbana, MD November 2015 to November 2017 Responsible for monitoring and protecting sensitive information for the SSA; and providing physical security for classified information.  Team Management and Leadership: Managed an 18-person team to ensure the appropriate cleared personnel were  granted access to and escorted within secure areas. Served in leadership position as union representative responsible for handling scheduling, seniority, benefits, conflict resolution and supervisor interaction representing over 60 officers.  Disseminated time-sensitive information as needed to team members. Communicated weekly with the sponsor program  manager regarding project status, project team effectiveness, risks and issues.  Information Systems and Technology: Implemented computers and computer systems (Windows 7) to set up functions, enter data and/or process information. Monitored PAM program to issue visitor passes.  Project Management: Evaluated information to determine compliance with established protocols and standards. Merged the support center with the communication center for 24-hour service. Created the after-hours field services support team  responsible for network configurations. Security Officer Hughes Network - Germantown, MD January 2014 to November 2015 Information Systems and Technology: Performed basic troubleshooting for Windows 7. Monitored network and server  activity for performance and reliability. Provided 24-hour service to senior executives, developing viable solutions and long-term resolutions to meet their time-sensitive needs.  Cybersecurity: Reported access issues and related hardware malfunctions. Diagnosed and advised on alarms through software diagnosis and physically checking hardware. Visual Security Officer Macy's - Gaithersburg, MD August 2013 to January 2014 Patrolled the premises. Investigated and reported nefarious activities. Took necessary action on the spot when necessary. Warehouse Associate, Walmart, Germantown Manpower Temps - Gaithersburg, MD May 2010 to August 2013 MD  Customer Service Representative at Verizon Gaithersburg, MD  Customer Service Agent, Hostess, Rockville, MD Semi-Professional Football Player Brooksville Ballers - Tampa, FL December 2012 to June 2013 Played in the positions of left tackle, right guard kickoff and kick off return. Championship win in 2013. Help Desk Technician Arrow Financial Services March 2005 to January 2007 Provided quality customer service and support, including: telephone support; troubleshooting; and diagnosing, resolving and documenting hardware, software and network-related technical issues. Created, responded to, escalated and closed  trouble tickets. Tracked all outstanding tickets, working closely with Tier II technician to ensure all problems were  resolved promptly. Documented technical issues and highlighted steps taken to remediate problems. Tasked with training  new hires on internal systems and procedures. Illustrator CHCS, CISCO Works, Clipper, Close-Up COMPUTER HARDWARE AND SOFTWARE EXPERIENCE  Languages and Applications: Adobe Acrobat, Active Client, Active Directory, Active Role Sever, ActiveX, ALTHA, ASP, Basic C++, BMC Remedy, C Cure 9000, CHCS, CISCO Works, Clipper, Close-Up, COBOL, ColdFusion, Corel  Web, Dame Ware, DBase, DFS Management, DreamWeaver, DOS, Dynamic HTML, Excel, Fireworks, Horizon Client, HTML, Illustrator, Internet Explorer, Internet Security Systems, JavaScript, LandDesk Remote Agent, Lenel, MBAM,  Netscape, N.I.C.E. Vision and Exacqvision, Norton Antivirus, Norton Disc Doctor, Norton Firewall, OmniPage, Oracle, Outlook, PageMaker, Photoshop, PowerPoint, PowerShell, Scan Exe, Visio, Visual Studio, Word, WordPerfect, XML.  Systems and Operating Systems: Firewalls and Intrusion Detection Systems, Global Combat Support System, Global  Command Control System; NIPRnet; SIPRnet; UNIX, LINUX, Windows 7, 10.  Databases: SQL Server, Oracle, Access, Paradox.  Hardware: PC, Servers, Hubs, IBM MVS, Modems, Mainframes, Raptor Firewall, Routers, Switches, VM.  Back-Office Applications: IIS Web Server, Exchange, Office 2013, Performance Engineering, SMS, TechNet.  Telecommunications (Protocols and Packages): Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) - Rijndael Algorithm, Digital  ID, EFS - Encrypting File System Wireless, HTTP, Kerberos, Networking Security Secrets Solutions, Passwords and Computer Configuration, PKI Certificates, PPP, PPTP, SNMP, TCP/IP, VPN. Education High school or equivalent Skills Cisco, Data center, Remedy, Citrix, Vpn, Sharepoint, Desktop applications, Ms project, Visio, Microsoft windows, Microsoft office, Operations management, Operations, Emc, Customer Support, Customer Service, Desktop Support, Help Desk, Call Center Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES  Operating System/System Software: Microsoft Windows Server (Citrix, VPN, Cisco).  Desktop Applications: Microsoft Office; Visio Pro; MS Project; SharePoint 2010.  Network Infrastructure: Cisco Routers; Switches.  Data Center: Operations Management; Remedy; EMC Storage Areas NetWork (SAN).