Corporate Security Data Analyst - Finance Corporate <span class="hl">Security</span> Data <span class="hl">Analyst</span> - Finance Corporate Security Data Risk Management Orlando, FL I have both the higher education and an applicable real-world skillset of 15 years in technical support and 3 years in IT security that affords me to be and continue to be marketable and successful in the technology space. My goal is to relocate to the following areas:    • Orlando  • Atlanta  • California    I have demonstrated leadership and organizational qualities all while working as a team player. Because of my interpersonal, support, customer service, and technical competencies from my previous academic projects, work experiences, my involvement in extracurricular activities such as social clubs, women’s empowerment groups, church, and volunteering, the salary minimum acceptable to me is:    $77,000 annually    My academic and professional accomplishments have proven to be essential in giving me greater self-confidence in understanding where I am today. My goal is to downsize to a more concentrated, technical and operational role so that I may work efficiently while completing my Master's degree in Healthcare Informatics. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Corporate Security Data Analyst - Finance Verizon - Lake Mary, FL December 2018 to Present • Ensuring that proper decisions are made concerning levels of concern for confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the data on systems for which they are responsible. Providing expertise in classified and unclassified ratings to customers  • Briefing technical vulnerabilities, system non-compliance with Information Security policies, and security incidents to management in a timely fashion.  • Creating presentations, training material, network diagrams, reports, and templates using Microsoft Office or a comparable office software suite. Senior IT Security Analyst Verizon - Temple Terrace, FL June 2017 to December 2018 • Monitor the security of critical systems (e.g., e-mail servers, database servers, web servers, etc) and changes to highly sensitive computer security controls to ensure appropriate system administrative actions, investigate and report on noted irregularities.  • Conduct network vulnerability assessments using tools to evaluate attack vectors, identify system vulnerabilities and develop remediation plans and security procedures.  • Investigate potential or actual security violations or incidents in an effort to identify issues and areas that require new security measures or policy changes.  • Research new developments in IT security in order to recommend, develop and implement new security policies, standards, procedures and operating doctrines across a major global enterprise  • Collaborate with business units to determine continuity requirements. IT Security Analyst FIS Global - St Petersburg Beach, FL July 2016 to June 2017 • Monitor the security of critical systems (e.g., e-mail servers, database servers, web servers, etc) and changes to highly sensitive computer security controls to ensure appropriate system administrative actions, investigate and report on noted irregularities.  • Conduct network vulnerability assessments using tools to evaluate attack vectors, identify system vulnerabilities and develop remediation plans and security procedures.  • Investigate potential or actual security violations or incidents in an effort to identify issues and areas that require new security measures or policy changes.  • Research new developments in IT security in order to recommend, develop and implement new security policies, standards, procedures and operating doctrines across a major global enterprise  • Collaborate with business units to determine continuity requirements. Senior Access Management Analyst Depository Trust and Clearing Corporation - Tampa, FL December 2012 to July 2016 • Manages user access to DTCC systems, supporting both internal and external clients.  • Analyzes, identifies and monitors areas of risk in work flows with internal teams to eliminate incidents.  • Maintains data input, and analysis of user requests, support queries and correspondence.  • Performs project analysis of user list cleanups, access request creations, deletions, and modifications, eliminating negative client impact by 40%.  • Reviews and maintain job aids for auditing and compliance purposes.  • Facilitates lunch-and-learns, mentoring circles, and learn from attending and completing onsite training in various topics including leadership, accountability, and finance.  • Implements one-call solutions by identifying areas of education to clients and current access that may be in question. Support Specialist I Bisk Education - Tampa, FL January 2012 to January 2013 • Supported external customers through remote access in troubleshooting technical issues.  • Worked with software and hardware components to eliminate access errors for customers.  • Focused on outages and worked with other technical errors to resolve problems.  • Monitored systems and analyzed trends of known issues and triaged those issues if any arise.  • Supervised software training, maintained employee development, and managed job aides.  • Performed support data analysis and implemented support processes that eliminated support call hold times from 40% to 15% within a 3-month time frame. Worker’s Compensation Claims Specialist MyMatrixx Pharmacy - Tampa, FL February 2008 to December 2010 • Managed corporate pharmacy claims to receive worker’s compensation.  • Created and maintained Standard of Operations manual.  • Facilitated patient interaction and resolution of pharmaceutical claim inquiries. Engineer Support Specialist VITAL Network Services - Tampa, FL December 2009 to February 2010 • Dispatched network technicians to various locations.  • Logged, updated, and closed tickets using tracking system.  • Performed periodic inventory of files, documents, and equipment. Designed with management approval, various ongoing and one of a kind reports containing statistical data pertaining to departmental hardware. Computer Support Specialist University of South Florida - Tampa, FL February 2007 to June 2008 • Provided hardware and software remote and in-office support to students, faculty, and staff.  • Referred any defective, major hardware and/or software problems to vendors or technicians for service.  • Developed training materials and procedures for new processes. Computer Support Specialist Consultis information Technology - Tallahassee, FL August 2005 to October 2007 • Provided technical support in troubleshooting network connections and malfunctioning issues.  • Logged, updated, and closed tickets using tracking system.  • Assisted state employees with Suncom outages and documented any newly identified support solutions or problems. Assistant Manager Metro PC - Tampa, FL May 2004 to June 2007 • Selling  • Training Sales representatives  • Inventory Management  • Auditing  • Transfers  • Shrinkage  • Planning store events  Education Master's in Social Media Marketing Southern New Hampshire University May 2019 to Present Bachelors of Arts in Interdisciplinary Studies University of South Florida - Tampa, FL 2005 to 2014 Associates of Arts in Information Technology Palm Beach State College - Lake Worth, FL 2004 to 2005 High School Diploma in Education Palm Beach Lakes High School - West Palm Beach, FL 1992 to 1996 Skills Analytics (10+ years), Communications (10+ years), Account Management (10+ years), Team Building (10+ years), Teamwork (10+ years), Time Management (10+ years), Leadership Development (5 years), Self-Motivation (10+ years), Problem Resolution (10+ years), SEC, Cyber Security, It Security, Information Security, Compliance, Intrusion, Active Directory, Nist, Desktop Support, Information Technology, Help Desk, It Specialist Certifications/Licenses Crowdstrike Present Splunk Present Groups Eta Alpha Sorority, Inc. Founder June 2015 to Present Eta Alpha Sorority, Incorporated is a sororal network of independent, professional, educated, and distinguished naturally born feminine women of all cultures, health statuses, faiths, family circles, sexual preferences, friendships, races, and religions with a reputation for adherence to the highest standards of ethics, community, political, and social service and professionalism. Every prospective member is thoroughly vetted once a bid invitation is extended and accepted. Each member’s participation and performance is monitored to assure continued quality control. Marketing Chair of National Coalition of 100 Black Women July 2018 to Present NCBW Vision  Our vision is to see black women and girls live in a world where socio-economic inequity does not exist.  NCBW Mission  Our mission is advocate on behalf of black women and girls to promote leadership development and gender equity in the areas of health, education and economic empowerment.  NCBW Core Values  We believe in…  • Gender equity  • Inclusion  • Respect  • Racial & social justice  • Integrity & accountability  • Economic empowerment  • Collaboration