Cyber Security Consultant Cyber <span class="hl">Security</span> Consultant Information Assurance Professional w/ BS IT Degree, Clearance & CISSP Huntsville, AL Goal oriented senior IA Professional with demonstrated experience in planning, developing and implementing solutions to address both business opportunities and DoD / IC requirements. Proven experience in providing Risk Management Framework (RMF) and Industrial Control Systems (ICS) expertise as well as creating IA focused business processes and policies based on business requirements and industry best practices Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Cyber Security Consultant Talon Cyber, LLC September 2017 to Present Cyber Security Consultant – Provide customers advice, suggestions, material, and training relevant to the cyber security of organizational networks and personnel privacy. Create RMF Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) and policies identifying organizational standards based on DoD requirements. Review and update system documentation including technical, configuration management and policy documentation for upcoming Security Controls Assessor (SCA) inspections. Interface with Major Command (MAJCOM) Cyber Security to help shape new Command level assess only RMF process – received first product Authorization To Operate (ATO) via this process. Review Industrial Control System (ICS) design documentation from vendors, compare to contract specifications provided by government, identify design issues, work with vendors to correct designs, and create RMF documentation set for government approval. Interface with higher level MAJCOM Information System Security Management office to implement rapid ATO process for highly specialized calibration network. Information Assurance Subject Matter Expert Sentar - Huntsville, AL October 2014 to Present Senior level Subject Matter Expert supporting the Headquarters, Army Materiel Command (HQ AMC) G-2 as Acting Information Assurance Program Manager (IAPM) for the Certification & Accreditation (C&A) of the Joint Worldwide Intelligence Communications System (JWICS) deployed across the Continental United States (CONUS). Developed and implemented a Program Management Plan (PMP) to accomplish and maintain system certification using Intelligence Community Directive (ICD) 503, and other related DoD / Army governing regulations. Provided regular updates to Senior Military Leadership, and coordinated with government and contractor staff across JWICS CONUS locations, regarding the C&A status of JWICS sites across the Command. Implemented new processes for AMC Headquarters (HQ) that ensured timely coordination of, and increased effectiveness and efficiencies across AMC for JWICS C&A activities. Developed Command level policies, procedures and directives that provide a security framework for subordinate commands to integrate into as well as maintain efficient Assessment and Authorization (A&A) processes during upcoming Risk Management Framework (RMF) transition Cyber Security Subject Matter Expert (SME) Sentar December 2016 to September 2017 Industrial Control System (ICS) Analyst (Jun – Sept 2017)– Provide senior level support to prime contractor building facility for new radar system by reviewing consolidated specifications for security, power and fire safety systems and matching vendor designs with Unified Facilities Criteria (UFC) requirements. Review hardware and software lists, data flow, topology diagrams and product data sheets to ensure system representation matches consolidated system design. Draft RMF control sets for ICS systems based on national guidelines and regulations. Provide training to team sub-contractors, as well as prime contractor, on implementation of RMF process onto ICS systems. Create system authorization package and submit to government Authorization Official (AO) for completed system build before facility enabling smooth transition to final government customer.    Information System Security Manager (Dec 2016 – Jun 2017) – Senior level support with subject matter expertise of cyber operations and mission analysis. Provided Information System Security Manager (ISSM) support to the Army Materiel Command (AMC) G2 Information Assurance Program Manager (IAPM) for the Joint Worldwide Intelligence Communication System (JWICS) deployed across the Continental United States (CONUS). Created and updated engineering level topology maps of JWICS enterprise backbone and site infrastructure. Implemented new Risk Management Framework (RMF) processes for Headquarters (HQ) AMC G2 Assessment & Authorization (A&A) packages ensuring critical mitigations are implemented. Created inspection checklists from RMF critical control set for Staff Assistance Visits and Site Specific Authorizations. Senior Cyber Security Specialist Jacobs ISG November 2016 to November 2016 Support Program Executive Office (PEO) Missiles and Space (MS) by performing Risk Management Framework (RMF) Assessment & Authorization (A&A) control validations for the Defense Research and Engineering Network (DREN). Ensured validity and accuracy of all associated documentation including applicable RMF A&A control sets implementation records, security policies and system security plans – Developed policies where needed. Additionally, responsible for analyzing and defining security requirements of information protection for enterprise systems, network compliance and audit monitoring and inspections across multiple networks throughout the PEO MS enterprise. Information Security Analyst Leidos - Huntsville, AL May 2012 to October 2014 Develop IA strategies by contributing information, analysis, and recommendations to strategic thinking and direction; establishing IA objectives in line with organizational objectives. Create plans, policies, doctrine and regulations to support creation of standardized IA processes. Deliver IA program consolidation and development recommendations at the DoD and Intelligence Community level. Provide Information Assurance (IA) guidance to geographically separated team of IT professionals consisting of help desk, system administrators and network engineers while centralizing management of Certification and Accreditation (C&A) test activities for JAFAN 6/3 and Risk Management Framework (RMF) processes. Review Information Assurance Vulnerability Alerts (IAVAs) submitted from higher headquarters for applicability and direct testing and installation by system administrators. Provide IA representation at enterprise Configuration Control Board (CCB) presenting assessments and recommendations to CCB Chair on submitted system configuration changes. Perform self-inspections on enterprise security configurations and IA programs based on DoD and joint operation frameworks. Assess system security controls; review system security documentation, including configuration and risk management plans; perform test and security analysis evaluation activities on both existing and new customer systems delivered into classified facilities. Leverage IA subject matter expertise to customer and mission partners during the development lifecycle of systems to develop and sustain an insider threat detection capability. Team Lead Leidos - Huntsville, AL May 2012 to October 2014 Accomplish human resource strategies by determining accountabilities and annual merit schedules; communicate and enforce values, policies, and procedures; implement recruitment, selection, orientation, training, coaching, counseling, disciplinary, and communication programs; plan, monitor, appraise, and review job contributions across multi-site geographically separated organization. Provide direct management to site team providing corporate insight and leadership during challenging corporate spinoff. Interface with Contractor Officer Representative (COR) and higher corporate leadership to gain approval and schedule team members for specialized training classes resulting in Computing Environment certifications satisfying 8570 requirements for contract. Information Systems Security Officer General Dynamics Advanced Information Systems October 2010 to May 2012 Support all Certification and Accreditation (C&A) activities in support of DCID 6/3 and ICD 503. Review network security and architectural plans for consistency and compliance with customer policies/requirements as well as industry best practices. Provide security support ensuring all technical security features (e.g., identification, authentication, access control and auditing) are considered and function properly. Conduct security control assessments for both new system builds and modifications delivered to site. Distribute Information Assurance Vulnerability Alerts (IAVAs) and weekly antivirus updates for implementation by site network personnel. Create operational procedures for office business practices and assist in the establishment of new Information Awareness programs across various customer offices. System Administrator US Air Force March 2007 to February 2010 Handled technical troubleshooting within an enterprise environment by providing 24 hour service for administration of user accounts and troubleshooting critical technical system issues. Engaged and tracked all issues, with responsibility for documentation, escalation (if appropriate), resolution and closure of issues. Responsible for system security through creation of unique user accounts and system passwords, ensuring timely and accurate updates to user information. Maintain documentation of system configuration along with planned configuration changes due to future design projects. Train new operators basic system functions along with advanced functions for user specific departments. Assistant Program Manager U.S. Air Force March 2007 to February 2010 Assistant Program Manager  Education - Handpicked to lead design team for agency asset tracking system. Interfaced with contractor and intra-agency departments on design issues. Created standardized organizational and asset naming structure for design foundation. Identified and documented inter-department business processes creating streamlined business flow across departments. Consistently maintained timelines between contract and agency resulting in 100% completion of shared deadlines. Configuration Control Board member providing guidance for software changes violating cross-functional processes within system. Identified alternate solutions to configuration requests while maintaining schedule. Information Assurance Officer United States Air Force March 2007 to February 2010 Drafted and coordinated System Security Certifications and security accreditation packages for DoD PL2 computer network systems. Provided specific security operating procedures required to provide an acceptable level of protection for each information system and the information accessed. Ensured users complete initial network security training before account creation authorization, maintaining a 100% security accountability posture on all department network systems. Accomplished security inspections of Information Assurance (IA) related continuity and training documentation, achieving 100% compliance of organizational policies. IT Manager US Air Force December 1996 to February 2010 Monitored network hardware for equipment failure or performance degradation. Created and maintained standardized system software / hardware baseline for all sensitive compartmented information facility (SCIF) office network interfacing systems. Provided management justification for specialty licensing and installed software. Interface with higher level technical support at overseas location to troubleshoot and correctly configure Cisco VPN and Taclane network security appliances, restoring secure network communications to home base. Planned and executed network transition to new location during office move with zero configuration errors resulting in immediate 100% network availability to all users. Accomplished quarterly self-inspections of all hardware and software on department networks. Only department in agency wide inventory, reconciling over one million dollars worth of inventory discrepancies, with 100% correct inventory. Education B.S in Information Technology Western Governors University - Online 2009 to 2013 Skills Certification & Accreditation (C&A), Risk Management Framework (RMF), assets recovery, business process, computer hardware, computer networking, documentation, logic, network security, networking, organizational skills, scheduling, system administration, system configuration, technical support, troubleshooting, Windows, Unix Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/jerrywarren01 Military Service Branch: U.S. Air Force Service Country: United States Rank: SSgt December 1996 to February 2010 Certifications/Licenses Certified Information Systems Security Professional July 2012 to July 2021