IT Manager <span class="hl">IT</span> Manager IT Manager - Private Cardiology Practice Bristow, VA Seeking a management position as a Director of IT, IT Manager, or Project Manager, in a effort to bring my knowledge of IT to an organization to help it grow and prosper. Work Experience IT Manager Private Cardiology Practice April 2014 to Present IT Manager responsible for all facets of IT. In this role I have performed the following.   - Facilitated the upgrade of our VMWare to stay compliant with Industry standards.   - Implemented VEEAM Backup and Replication Schemes to ensure backup the company remains HIPPA compliant   - Implemented uniform workstation equipment to create a more streamlined way of tracking the lifecycle management of Equipment.   - Overhauled all server systems and life cycle processes   - Integral decision maker in completing one (1) new office implementation, two (2) office moves, three (3) office reconstructions, and one (1) office consolidation for any and all IT needs (IP, Voice, Networking Equipment, MPLS, Cable).  - Works closely with the Senior Management Team to formulate the annual budget for Technology and IT Services.  - Member of the HIPAA Committee where he works with other Management personnel to verify that the practice is in compliance with all current HIPAA regulations and requirements. ) Network Administrator Justice Federal Credit Union November 2005 to February 2014 As Network Administrator responsibilities include   - Management, and maintenance of all servers   - Used network management tools (Nagios, Opsview ) to monitor and correct any issues within the network in a timely manner.   - Responsible for maintaining backups of all servers (Evault) and network equipment configurations.  Assisted the help desk with issues that may arise and create knowledge base documents to assist in the faster resolution of more common issues.   - Worked closely with third party vendors to manage projects involving the upgrading and integration of new products and services for both the internal employees as well as new member facing services.   - Assisted in a complete overhaul of the network infrastructure, moving from Virtual Private Network (VPN) connections for each branch to a MPLS network. Security Operating Center Analyst Security Operation Center June 2005 to October 2005 As a security analyst for a security operation center, Mr. Burks was a member of a team of analysts that were responsible for the monitoring of many different customers' networks. His team was the first line of defense in identifying and diagnosing any possible computer viral infections, malware infections, unauthorized scanning activity, denial of service attacks, and any other possible compromises of customers' networks. Priority software was used to achieve these goals. Education B.S. in Information Technology George Mason University May 2005 Skills CISCO (8 years), CITRIX (8 years), TCP, VMWARE (8 years), NETWORKING (8 years) Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Network+ Present Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILL AREAS:  Cisco Routers MS Office Suite Citrix  Cisco Switches Project Management Cisco Unity  HPE Servers Webroot Cisco CUCM  Dell KACE TCP/IP Cisco UCCX  Netapp SAN Networking Imprivata  Nimble SAN  ZixVPM  ZixOne  Lansweeper   Manage Engine Service Desk  Whatsup Gold  Sonicwall Firewall and Proxy  Windows 7/8/10  Windows Server 2008/2012/2016  VMWare   VEEAM