Job Seeker Round Rock, TX To work in an environment which optimally utilizes my interpersonal skills coupled with my diverse technical abilities acquired through years of experience in the IT field. My ideal position fosters my ambition for progressive technical development and professional growth. Work Experience Apex Systems - Austin, TX April 2019 to August 2019 • Worked on Windows 10 Migration Project  • Microsoft SCCM imaging, software deployment,  • Escalations for Tier 1 support.  • Easy Vista ticketing and Inventory software  • VSphere build and support Virtual windows systems  • Support peripherals such as printers, projectors and A/V in conference rooms  • MS Active Directory  • Cisco IP PHONES  • Port Knox network access control support  • Office 365 Support  • Setup WYSE Thin Client systems  • Work with management to improve on boarding and off boarding processes.  • Work with other teams to improve support processes. ISphere - Houston, TX September 2018 to October 2018 • Project to move all stores and new acquisitions over to new circuit.  • Cisco Meraki Setup and Administration  • Setup and administer Audio Code IP Phone and Devices.  • Work with POS software to setup and test Ingenico Card Readers.  • Windows 10 and Cisco VPN  • Office 365  • Active Directory  • Knowledge and application of DHCP, VPN, DNS. Helpdesk Support for new Azure Based app Adroit Partners - Houston, TX April 2018 to August 2018 Houston, TX  08/2018 Helpdesk/Application Support    • Helpdesk Support for new Azure Based app  • Specializing in Azure Based App  • Create Technical Documentation for Helpdesk and customers  • Windows 10 Support  • Apple IOS support and documentation  • Android Support and documentation  • Mobile Iron Administration  • Inbound call center measured on standard Helpdesk metrics  • Worked closely with other teams and Project manager to identify trends and possible problems with App updates. IT Support Campesino - Houston, TX March 2017 to March 2017 • Desktop Support, Windows Environment  • Break/Fix printers, PC's, POS system  • Support Google Browser based apps  • Troubleshoot printers as well as mobile devices.  • System Refresh projects, (replacing systems that did not meet current specs)  • Work with Vendors for upgrades and support.  • Miscellaneous tasks, including promotions, inventory, bank duties, vendor payments. IT Technical Specialist Chase Source(contract) - Houston, TX November 2016 to December 2016 • Desktop Support, Windows Environment  • Worked Trouble tickets in our help desk queue, Everyday IT tasks such as create users accounts, apply appropriate permissions.  • Worked with both Active Directory and Office 365.  • Troubleshoot MFD devices, printers as well as mobile devices.  • System Refresh projects, (replacing systems that did not meet current specs) IT Support Technician ECOM(contract) - Houston, TX May 2016 to August 2016 • BSC Helpdesk, assisting in the incoming ticket Queue.  • The Technical related tickets were worked remote and we worked with Vendors and Remote Techs if need be.  • Support, included a broad range of support from network monitoring to installing printers  • System Refresh projects, (replacing system at co-locations  • Created technical document for my team and worked with other Groups to troubleshoot issues.  • Extensive knowledge of MFD devices acquired on project called the New Hire Experience. IT Support Technician CompuCom - Houston, TX January 2016 to March 2016 • Helpdesk Support for St Luke's local and remote sites.  • Specializing in Browser Based Apps  • Create Technical Documentation for Helpdesk and customers  • Windows 7, 10 Support  • Microsoft Office 360 Support, Google Apps Support IT Support Technician D&S Community - Austin, TX August 2015 to November 2015 • Helpdesk and Desktop Support for local and remote sites.  • MS Exchange 2010, 2013 support  • Active Directory User and Computer Support  • Monitor ticketing queue and work tickets depending on urgency  • Work with Telecomm agencies to support local and remote sites  • Configure and support Cisco Meraki components.  • VOIP Phone Systems Technical Specialist Support Virtual Systems July 2015 to July 2015 • Monitor Ticketing queue and assign tickets to the appropriate groups  • Install proprietary software on Windows Workstations. Windows 7  • Support Virtual Systems in a VMWare VSphere 5 Environment  • Desk side support including system moves, installs, replacements  • Active Directory User/Computer Support  • Provide initial training and assistance to clients. Northwestern Life - Austin, TX May 2015 to May 2015 Technical Specialist 3M January 2015 to January 2015 • Provide Technical support via Help Desk for MVSS Department at 3M  • Install/Support SQL server on Windows Server platforms  • Install proprietary software on Windows Workstations. Windows XP/7/8  • Network troubleshooting to setup, TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP  • Write Technical documentation for the proprietary application  • Utilize networking skills to configure Fixed/Mobile LPRS cameras  • Provide initial training and assistance to clients. Maxis Group - Austin, TX August 2014 to August 2014 Helpdesk Manager Advantage Waypoint - Houston, TX February 2013 to June 2014 • Manage a small team of Help Desk agents  • Implement policies and procedures to ensure the Help Desk was providing optimal support to our internal clients  • Provide coaching for technical and customer service skills.  • Coordinate work with other teams to resolve issues and complete projects  • Provide local Desktop support for local office, 25-50 users  • Support and maintain Cisco IP phones  • Use DELL KACE for ticket reporting, inventory and software deployment.  • Basic network troubleshooting  • Provide support for multiple Microsoft Products including Windows Server, SQL, MS Office, Windows XP, 7, 8. This includes migrations  • Work with Active Directory manage, create and maintain user accounts.  • Use the LANSWEEPER product to maintain inventory, licensing IT Security Admin II Sysco Foods - Houston, TX November 2011 to August 2012 • Account administration with adherence to SOX compliance  • Work with Active Directory and MS Exchange for account creations, changes as well as group policies  • Account creations and changes on an AS/400 platform  • Basic SAP account administration. Desktop Support/Field Service Support Network-Outfitters - Houston, TX February 2011 to August 2012 • Repair/reinstall virus infected Windows workstations  • Onsite Travel to troubleshoot workstation/fax/network issues  • Utilize Remedy Ticketing System  • Active Directory Administration  • Install Printers/Workstations/scanners and provide remote support  • Citrix Administration  • Support Microsoft products including Windows Serrver 2003, XP,7, and MS Office Systems Admin/Desktop Support February 2010 to February 2010 Job Description: Support the Houston Operations Office and Helpdesk comprised of 75 to 100 users as well as satellite branches across the nation. My duties included troubleshooting local network problems, as well as supporting and updating the Altigen PBX system. Desktop support included creating and managing Active Directory objects while responding to on duty call status essentially seven days a week.  Acknowledgements: Implemented SPARK IM system throughout the Enterprise. Corrected ongoing hardware problem with the PBX system reducing helpdesk downtime.  Administrative Duties:    *Create/Delete modify user accounts in Active Directory  * Work with phone vendor to coordinate movement and changes.  * Supported Spark's nationwide Instant Messaging application.  * Assessed and purchased integral equipment.    Technical Duties:  *Windows XP/Vista/Server 2003  *Remote desktop support via VNC, RDP  *Terminal Server  *Active Directory  *PBX Phone system (Altigen)  *PIX Router  * Local T1 maintenance with vendors CIBT Inc - Houston, TX September 2008 to September 2008 Stewart Title - Houston, TX November 2006 to August 2008 Remote Administration  Job Description: Provided helpdesk technical support for various title offices in four states. Tracked and resolved all incoming technical support and title software calls regarding title industry related questions. My role acted to support Texas, New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Louisiana, with over 500 users. Main duties included remote software, hardware, and networking support. Also, assessing equipment needs and making purchases were my responsibility.    Acknowledgments: Saved critical Data servers with RAID expertise and disaster recovery knowledge. Also was in charge of Dell equipment break fix.  Administrative Duties:  * Trained newly hired employees on Windows applications and proprietary Title industry software.  * Troubleshoot and Facilitate resolutions for Stewart's AFW proprietary software.  * Assessed equipment needs and acquired quotes for remote offices to evaluate purchasing potential.  Technical Duties:    *Windows Server 2003, 2000  * Exchange server  * SQL server  * Terminal Server  * XP/2000  *Symantec Backup Exec  *Active Directory  *Cisco VPN, Citrix Remote services  *Remote Wan/LAN support Enterprise Server and Storage Support, Escalations Analyst Dell Inc August 2006 to August 2006 Job Description: Oversee Support for all platforms of Dell Enterprise servers including autoloaders, managed switches, and hardware storage for 3 years. Escalations analyst for Enterprise services including Executive Escalations and various levels of customers.  Acknowledgments: I exceeded to Executive Escalations manager and Reported to Michael Dell regarding all legal and escalated issues. On the Enterprise help desk I assisted in training new employees as well as excelled in Driving Customer Experience campaigns.  Administrative Duties:  * Mentored all Enterprise technicians assessing customer complaints.  * Responsible for providing assistance to all customer issues.  * Worked in tandem with internal groups providing prompt solutions for customers.  * Facilitated solutions for Executive Escalations.  * Technical Accounts Manager.  Technical Duties:    * Supported all platforms of Dell Enterprise hardware.  * Windows Server 2003, 2000 expert.  * Windows XP, 2000 workstation expert.  * Installed and supported all tape backup solutions.  * Configured and supported both Backup Exec products and Disaster Recovery.  * Red Hat Linux Support. Escalation Specialist Dell Inc - Austin, TX March 2003 to August 2006 Education Associates Degree in Electronic Engineering/Computer Science Microcomputer Technology Institute 1996 to 1998 Houston Community College 1995 to 1996 Skills Active directory, Cisco, Citrix, Dhcp, Lan/wan Additional Information Skills     • Server/Workstation hardware support  • CISCO VOIP  • Altigen VOIP  • Remote Support  • SCSI/SATA RAID array configuration  • Active Directory Support  • LAN/WAN Support, Configuration, TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP  • Cisco Meraki  • Helpdesk/Desktop Support  • Solar Winds  • NOC Experience  • Windows XP, 7, 8, 10  • Systems Integration  • Migration Experience  • Dell Hardware  • Active Directory  • Hyper V  • Technical Writing  • DELL KACE    • Windows Server 2012 and 2016    • Virus/Malware Removal  • Citrix Server  • SQL Server  • Microsoft Office 365  • Xerox/Ricoh MFD devices.  • Technical training  • Escalations Analyst  • VOIP/Telecomm  • VMware VSphere  • SOX Compliance  • Microsoft SCCM  • Mobile Iron Administration  • Audio Code Managed IP Phone  • Microsoft Azure based apps