IT Security Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Information Security Analyst Birmingham, AL Work Experience IT Security Analyst Securit360 - Birmingham, AL November 2016 to Present Provide Security analysis and audits across the enterprise for clients. Use Nessus, Nipper, and Metasploit for vulnerabilities and campaigns.?Advise clients and perform Security awareness training.  Write reports of findings and recommendations to clients .  Studying for CISSP and CISA certifications. Systems Administrator Financial Imaging - Birmingham, AL March 2016 to October 2016 Utilize Visual FoxPro or Excel to format address files for printing.  Manage Microsoft domain and servers.  Manage virtual servers in Oracle Virtual Machine environment.  Active Directory and server security.  Directed company SOC II certification.  Create new company disaster recovery plan.  Create, document, and enforce company IT security policies and processes. System Administrator Atherotech, Inc. - Birmingham, AL January 2016 to February 2016 Responsibilities  • Administer all windows platforms and configure Cisco firewalls, routers, and switches.  • Manage VMware 3 cluster enterprise environment.  • Active Directory and server security.  • Migration of 2003 servers to 2012.  • Manage EMC and Dell storage area networks.  • Manage Cisco ASA firewalls, routers, and switches  • Create, document, and enforce company IT security policies and processes.  • Put new security standards in place for servers, data, and other IT equipment.    Accomplishments  Company filed Chapter 7 at the end of February. Windows/Network Architect Pinnacle Data Systems, LLC - Birmingham, AL March 2012 to January 2016 • Administer all windows platforms and configure Cisco firewalls, routers, and switches.  • Design and implement new Cisco networking equipment in new location  • Install Cisco Adaptive Security Device Manager and Cisco Network Assistant for firewall and switch management  • Install and upgrade IBM/Sterling Connect Direct  • Create, document, and enforce company IT security policies and processes.  • Manage the company helpdesk that assisted 300 users.  • Install new WSUS Server for Microsoft updates.  • Administer VMware environment and upgrade to versions 5.0, 5.1.  • Install NetVault and Veeam Backup with Dell DR4100 cluster.  • Purchase and install new software and hardware.  • Suggest recommendations on 1 and 3 year budgets.  • Design disaster plan and testing.   • Consolidate user files spread across several servers to a single server.  • Convert all Microsoft domains to 2012  • Migrate Microsoft 2003 servers to 2012  • Participate in company SOC I and II audits.  • Meet with users and departments to implement new technology.  • Manage company IP phone system.  • Train users on customized software systems ISS Security Administrator EBSCO International - Birmingham, AL August 2009 to November 2011 • Administer security across the enterprise  • Security on Windows and IBM Mainframe RACF  • Limit folder security to only users that need access using groups  • Use Active Roles Server to administer Active Directory  • Create and complete Security Request for Change's  • Remediate security on older servers/network  • Audit security on servers and the network in the enterprise  • Administer GOOD Technology for company smart phone e-mail  • Move data from old servers to new storage appliance  • Administer CISCO phone system  • Administer Cisco VPN and Citrix connectivity Server Support Technician EBSCO International - Birmingham, AL October 2006 to August 2009 Server Support Technician Compass Bank - Birmingham, AL October 2005 to October 2006 • Support servers running Windows Server 2000, and 2003  • Work with departments on disk space planning  • Install new servers, some in clusters IT Operations Director RPC, Inc - Atlanta, GA October 2001 to October 2003 • Manager of 6 person IT Operations shop  • Direct all IT Operation projects and budgeting  • Manage projects in IT Master Plan and others IT Operations Manager Enhancement Services Corporation - Roswell, GA May 2000 to October 2001 • Hands on manager of 4 person IT Operations shop  • Manage all IT Operation projects and budget  • Assist CIO in direction of IT for the company  • Responsible for company infrastructure from back office to desktop  • Local and wide area network capacity planning  • Implement network security plan including firewall configuration  • Implementation of UniCenter for network monitoring and management  • Manage/build 23 NT/2000 Servers with Active Directory in multiple domain WAN  • Install and manage Sybase database servers  • Compose and test company disaster recovery plan  • Ensure company/client security compliance  • Manage helpdesk for 180 users Management Information Systems Director Napp Deady, Inc - Atlanta, GA September 1998 to April 2000 • Manage multiple domain NT Database Servers, upgrade/add new servers  • Upgrade network infrastructure, install new 3Com ethernet switches  • Write programs in Visual FoxPro for reports and fixes to current system  • Maintain back office system on AIX UNIX system Data Network Administrator US 11th Circuit Court of Appeals - Atlanta, GA September 1997 to July 1998 • Manage court LAN and WAN in three states  • Administer and trouble shoot Novell 4.11 and NT Server operating systems  • Administer CC:Mail system and migrate system to latest release  • Install new 3Com routers and switches  • Manage install of new CAT5 cabling LAN Administrator MARTA - Atlanta, GA March 1997 to September 1997 • Administer Novell and NT Server operating systems  • LAN and WAN administration  • Configuration and design Office Automation Manager Janofsky & Walker - Atlanta, GA September 1996 to March 1997 • Manage 3 person MIS shop  • Install new Novell Server with CD jukebox  • Design new LAN and WAN for firm  • Prepare office for upgrade to Windows 95/NT platform  • Install new HP Net Server  • Maintain Novell 3.11 network  • Maintain Windows NT server running Lotus Notes  • Upgrade hardware and software  • Answer help desk questions  • Repair hardware as needed  • Upgrade hardware and software  • Report to Office Administrator and Executive Committee Information Systems Manager Balch & Bingham - Birmingham, AL October 1991 to September 1996 • Manage 3 person MIS shop  • Design and implement technology plan for firm  • Design and implement wide area 4 server Novell PC network  • Implement firm wide e-mail system  • Install X.400, AT&T and Internet e-mail gateways to connect to clients  • Manage Barrister time and billing software on AS/400  • Plan conversion and implement from DOS to Windows platform  • Install litigation support software and research paperless trial systems  • Develop and implement records management system in Clipper  • Implement AT&T Audix voice mail system  • Install T-1 & 56k voice and data lines to connect three remote offices  • Implement notebook computers and software for virtual office and/or attorney connectivity  • Install Windows NT Server to allow World Wide Web browsing  • Install new PhoneTrac call accounting system from Control Systems  • Maintain existing and install new copy and fax cost recovery system  • Maintain, add to, and install AT&T phone systems  • Install dedicated Westlaw gateway  • Budget projects  • Maintain PC's and printers  • Answer and assist with software/hardware problems  • Change outgoing long distance service to reduce expenses  • Change firm calling cards to reduce expenses  • Eliminate maintenance contract for PC's  • Use software utilities for remote office system management to keep staff to a minimum  • Recommend new hardware and software as needed Private Consulting Private Consulting - Atlanta, GA February 1991 to September 1991 • Design and implement Novell network for small law firm  • Assist engineering firm in redesigning network cable plant Contract Programmer Smith & Chandler - Atlanta, GA August 1990 to February 1991 • Develop worker's compensation audit package for State of Nevada Systems Manager Fisher & Phillips - Atlanta, GA April 1988 to August 1990 • Install and maintain 3 Novell networks  • Assist users with software and hardware problems  • Implement Lexis type database for in-house work product  • Install firm wide e-mail system  • Maintain telephone system Systems Analyst Healthdyne, Inc - Marietta, GA February 1987 to April 1988 • Develop and install data collection system for prenatal monitoring program  • Maintain 34 node Novell network  • Assist with software changes on DEC VAX and IBM System 38  • Maintain PC's and assist with software problems Systems Analyst The Taulman Company - Atlanta, GA July 1985 to February 1987 • Install 21 node Novell network  • Develop sales commission system  • Maintain and convert accounting system to DEC PDP 11/73  • Maintain PC's and assist with software problems System Analyst Crest Systems - Birmingham, AL August 1983 to July 1985 • Develop international banking package for SouthTrust Bank Owner CompuData - Tulsa, OK January 1980 to May 1983 • Perform contract programming work while in college    Professional Education Associates in Pre-Medical Sciences University of Tulsa - Tulsa, OK Skills IT Management (10+ years), IT Operations (10+ years), Security (7 years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) July 2019 to July 2022 Security Certification