Director of Catering Services Director of Catering Services Hoboken, NJ Seeking a position in a vibrant environment where I can provide support services and project coordination. Immediate availability. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Director of Catering Services SAINT FRANCIS ACADEMY - Union City, NJ 2015 to 2019 Responsible for the daily operation of the SFA lunch program which serves over 150 students a day during the school year.  • Onboarded online lunch ordering application, BOONLI. Connected catering/restaurants, parent volunteers, and school administrators to efficiently manage the school lunch program.  • Offered healthy menu offerings and expanded partnerships with caterers. Over four years, doubled lunch sales.  • Excellent safety record managing a crew of 3 to 5 parent volunteers. Board Treasurer and Fundraising Chairperson SAINT FRANCIS ACADEMY - Union City, NJ 2012 to 2015 Lead role for efforts that successfully raised a minimum of $100,000 per academic calendar year for the School  • Appointed to solely manage $100K of SFA Parents Guild Activities Fees. Designed allocation methodology and kept budgets for all fundraising events.  • Received and paid all bills associated with guild operations. Balanced subsidiary accounts and reconciled entries.  • Planned, executed, and orchestrated approximately 30 fundraising events over the course of each school calendar year.  • Improved efficiencies by introducing new sponsorship initiatives and low cost but effective fundraising event opportunities. Vice President - Head Security and Control Barclays Bank International - New York, NY 2001 to 2011 Financial services management role in Anti-Money Laundering/Sanctions Screening with an emphasis on improving operational efficiency. Implement compliant and cost-effective end-to-end processing, both domestically and internationally.  ? Played a key role in designing and implementing an AML/Sanctions Screening transaction monitoring system that encompassed rule definition and user acceptance training.  ? Recruited and hired compliance staff for newly formed compliance group. Prepared job descriptions and procedures to vet candidates. Successfully hired a dozen employees for the startup team.  ? Designed and tested Business Continuity plans. Mandatory regulatory backup requirements were met successfully every year. Associate Director - Strategic IT Planning Barclays Bank International - New York, NY 1991 to 2001 • Collaborated with a hand selected Wholesale Strategic team of senior professionals responsible for strategic and operational planning of IT systems to supply strategic business platforms for Barclays worldwide while based in the UK for 2 years.  • Rationalized the efficacy of operational activities based on performance metrics analysis and due diligence. Consolidated account services to third party operations and offshore entities which cut the operational budget by $15 million. Lead Business Analyst Barclays Bank International - New York, NY 1981 to 1991 • Led Funds Transfer and General Ledger software development teams that collaborated with internal and external accounting staff to define detailed blueprints for developers to configure automated online applications that replaced the existing manual processes, increased efficiency and reduced staff by 70%.  • Conducted classroom, and field training for operational staff in 7 Barclays branches located in key cities throughout the US. IT Management Trainee Mobil Oil Corporation - New York, NY 1979 to 1981 Designed and programmed subroutines to filter data and generate corporate financial reports. Education Culinary Arts Training Peter Kump's New York Cooking School - New York, NY June 1990 Bachelor of Science in Economics & Finance in Economics & Finance/Computer Science Manhattan College School of Business - New York, NY May 1979 Skills Windows, Microsoft Office, Power Point, Excel, Project. Fluent in Spanish (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses CPR January 2003 to September 2011