SR Desktop Support Analyst Tier 2 SR Desktop Support <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Tier 2 SR Desktop Support Analyst Tier 2 Smyrna, DE Desktop/Helpdesk Support    To obtain a Senior Level Technician full time employee position that focuses on supporting end users including troubleshooting, installations, maintenance, mentoring and customer service.  oriented Desktop Technical Support Professional and System Security Administrator with 19 years of Information Technology.  • Provide helpdesk support, hardware, software, and network issues.  • Active Directory and Exchange administration.  • SCCM Imaging and Norton Ghost imaging.  • SCCM Configuration Console, SCCM Client Center.  • Microsoft Application Virtualization (App-V) to make virtual applications available to end users.  • Skilled communicator able to utilize both verbal and written communication, document support issues, create user presentations, mentoring and provide timely solutions in stressful situations.  • Diploma in Computer Networks and Data Communication.  • Accomplished in establishing networks for new facilities.  • Demonstrated ability to resolve Blackberry Enterprise account and mobile issues.  • Primary technician for corporate Windows computer repairs/replacements of hardware for IBM, Dell, Lenovo and HP desktops and laptops. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SR Desktop Support Analyst Tier 2 Barclays - Wilmington, DE 2014 to May 2019 full time)    • TechBar support for walk up troubleshooting.  • Responding to help desk requests via Service Now queue.  • Deskside/Remote support troubleshooting/software installs.  • Workstation hardware setups  • SCCM Imaging desktops/laptops  • Asset tracking  • Mentoring other support team members.  • SCCM Console, App-V, Web based QARS for software deployments. IT Technician (Part Time) Goldey-Beacom College - Wilmington, DE 2013 to 2014 • Whiteboard support  • Support services to other departments.  • Video conferencing support.  • Responding to help desk requests.  • Assisting with the installation, relocation, testing, and troubleshooting of software/hardware for students and staff.  • Coordinating wireless (Also gaming device wireless setups for dorm students) appointments, assisting with WLAN configurations.  • Administrative monitoring and reporting of student accounts.  • Ghost imaging for new/replacement hardware.  • Backup/Restore profiles.  • Support for printers, scanners. Desktop Support Tier Pepco Holdings - Newark, DE 2013 to 2013 1 (temp)    • First contact for all IT request via telephone.  • Log calls in Remedy, respond and troubleshoot/resolved client issues and request.  • Diagnose and resolve problems for computer & peripheral hardware, enterprise applications, Microsoft Office suite, printers and network connectivity.  • Consulted end-users on the effective use of computer resources and standard applications.  • Provided follow-up and updates with users on outstanding/open tickets.  • Worked with other IT groups to resolve/assign ticket requests. Senior Helpdesk Support Tier 3 Garda Cash Logistics International - Wilmington, DE 2007 to 2013 full time)    • Supported 44,000 end users in 4 locations including United States, Middle East, United Kingdom, and Canada on hardware, software, and network issues; worked in corporate office to answer helpdesk calls and assist onsite personnel.  • Addressed 20+ end user support calls or emails daily and 10 calls during on-call weekends, documenting and tracking helpdesk tickets using Alloy Database Ticketing System.  • Oversaw server backup tape rotations and computer repairs, set up workstations by running Ethernet for computers and VoIP systems, and installed computers, VoIP's, and software.  • Provided one-on-one training to end users on hardware such as printers and fax systems and software and upgrades including Microsoft Office and Esker SmarTerm and demonstrated how to use and configure wireless connections on laptops.  • Spearheaded troubleshooting and repair of Lenovo and Dell desktops and laptops, WYSE thin clients, and IBM e-servers including hardware, software, and upgrades. System Security Administrator (full time) Inc - Garda - Wilmington, DE 2000 to 2007 • Administered Windows servers including installing, configuring, and troubleshooting hardware, peripherals, and software for new and existing systems.  • Provided detailed instructions and snapshots in "How To" documents for IT Field Technicians to assist end users by creating handouts using Microsoft Word to address issues such as deployment procedures for DeposiTrak systems, configuration and setup of network printers, and software configurations including AS400, Esker SmarTerm, and Exchange client setups.  • Performed diagnostics and oversaw troubleshooting of system issues including finding the root cause of a slow system such as anti-virus software, CPU spikes, and insufficient RAM; locating network bottlenecks; and correcting SurePOS systems to allow automated server updates via client logs to identify issues with DNS resolution in the domain.  • Coordinated with external client companies including IBM-Lenovo, Ricoh, and Cisco to troubleshoot issues and repair hardware, software, and upgrades to desktops and laptops, WYSE Thin Clients, and IBM e-Servers.  • Trained end users on hardware and software by leading one-on-one training and Cisco training classes at Cisco headquarters in Dallas, Texas for Cisco Security Agent.  • Managed Cisco Security Administration (CSA) Endpoint Protection by deploying, planning, coordinating, and implementing security policies and rule sets to safeguard information for end-point systems to prevent accidental or unauthorized modification, destruction, or disclosure of company data.  • Developed group lockdown policies on sensitive systems using Active Directory and Local Group Policies.  • Spearheaded disaster recovery tasks to ensure backups worked by testing tape rotation and failover plans.  • Supported Symantec Corporate Antivirus and Trend Micro Corporate Antivirus. Education Diploma in Computer Networks and Data Communication in Computer Networks and Data Communication The Chubb Institute - Springfield, PA Cecil Community College Additional Information ? Able to prioritize and organize heavy work-loads under deadlines.  ? Excellent problem-solving skills.  ? Team player.  ? Willing to learn new technology, gain knowledge and able to apply concepts quickly.  ? Strong oral and written communication skills.  ? Excellent, respectable in customer service.  ? Enjoy helping others, 'knowledge base' documents for users and technicians.  ? Ability to thrive in hectic and fast paced environment.  ? Ability to work independently and perform duties with little or no supervision.  ? Research oriented.  ? Meet SLA's in timely manner    Technical Knowledge:    • Imaging for deployments. (SCCM, Symantec Ghost).  • Workstation Hardware - Software deployments.  • Computer Repairs: Software/hardware troubleshooting of Windows/MAC desktops and laptops.  • Network (LAN-WAN) /Local Printer support.  • Windows OS: (NT, XP, Win7, Win2010, )  • MAC Troubleshooting. (laptops with Sierra, hardware - software, configurations)  • MS Office suites 2000/XP/2003/2007/2010/Office365.  • VPN Client configurations/troubleshooting.  • DHCP, WINS, DNS  • Windows servers tape backups.  • Active Directory: User accounts, permissions.  • MS Exchange: Mailbox creations/deletions, Distribution lists.  • Service Now, BMC Remedy and Alloy helpdesk ticketing systems.  • Antivirus: Symantec Enterprise Antivirus Client, Symantec Corporate Antivirus, Trend Micro Corporate Antivirus.  • Mobile Support - (iPhone, Blackberry)  • Remote Assistance: (SCCM Control Viewer, Win7 Remote Assistance, RDP, Team Viewer, WebEx, GoToMeeting, VNC, Netmeeting.)