IT Consultant <span class="hl">IT</span> Consultant IT Consultant - Legal Concierge, Inc Sherman, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Consultant Legal Concierge, Inc May 2017 to Present • Provide technical setup and services to trial team.  • Complete courtroom setups and moc-trials across the nation.  • Coordinate with local ISP to establish data connectivity at trial sites.  • Setup VOIP phones, WIFI, routers and switches at trial sites. Contract Technical Support Engineer II Intel (McAfee) November 2016 to May 2017 • Provided Gold Support and Service for McAfee products to enterprise customers.  • Provided design and implementation services on ePolicy, DLP Endpoint and Cloud Security.  • Assist customers with security incidents on premise, virtual, and Cloud Platforms.  • Setup and configure ePolicy Manager, AV and Endpoint Security or customers.  • Helped customers with threat assessments, threat mitigation, product configurations.  • Monitored security sites and bulletin boards to stay current on security threats and trends. Contract Network Engineer Paragon Healthcare November 2015 to May 2017 • Assisted Paragon IT with network redesign at the corporate headquarters, data centers and twenty-seven clinic and pharmacy locations.  • Deployed new routers, switches and firewalls at all locations.  • Created new network diagrams and maps with new information and verified that all other information was accurate updated.  • Configured workstations, servers, printers at all locations and joined the new networks. Sr. Systems/ Security Engineer May 2014 to November 2016 Systeem Medical Information Systems    • Managed Service Provider Monitoring and Engineering Lead, servicing geographically dispersed healthcare practices at more than 170 locations, and 4000 plus nodes.  • Provided Support for IT operations that include NextGen Practice Management / EMR, data, voice, security, storage, disaster recovery, data center, vendor management and more.  • Solar Wind's nCentrall and Nagios, Connect Wise for inventory, ticketing and customer billing.  • Research and remediate system alerts, events and failures generated applications, servers, network devices, circuit status and all related peripheral.  • Use SCCM for server and client patching, firmware, OS images, and application automation, installations and upgrades. Lead Support Analyst Zodiac Seats US, LLC August 2013 to April 2014 • Hired to establish formal Service Desk and new operating procedures in an effort to increase efficiency, satisfaction and improve overall perception of the IT Department.  • Provided application, software, and hardware support for approximately 2300 users and over 3000 devices via phone and through remote access applications.  • Managed new user creation and current user security access through Active Directory and Group Policy automated procedures.  • Handled an average 120 ticket a day volume with a total of 3 FTE's and 2 interns.  • Developed and implemented formal support SLA's and Dashboard Analytics.  • Responsible for creating all Active Directory, Lotus Email, and AS/400 accounts.  • Built software packages and silent installs to enable automation of high volume deployment through GPO's, Goverlan, PDQ Deployment and ultimately Dell Kase.  • Primary administrator of Service Desk Software (Alloy Navigator), ticketing system and self-service portal. Systems & Security Engineer Network Certified Solutions (Disbanded) June 2011 to July 2013 • Provided small / medium sized businesses consulting, technical, and sales support for a highly skilled network solutions and services company.  • Outsourced to Verizon Business on long term major project as Systems Technician join a mixture of other contractors and Verizon employees responsible for designing, planning, and execution of moving Capital One Banking and Finance segments onto Cisco Unified Communications VOIP.  • Moved into IT Security Project Manager role for Capital One's Corporate Audit and Compliance Division. IT Director Ethicus Healthcare July 2009 to May 2011 • Managed and led a small IT department that provided a level of service surpassing that of many larger departments with more IT staff and fewer service responsibilities. Attributed to successful implementation of a unique service methodology combining characteristics from both Lean and ITIL process along with a by pride of ownership, a dedication to hospital success and a commitment to our customers (users).  • Acted as primary server, network, VOIP, and AS/400 engineer and SME.  • Completed HIPAA compliance audits, implementation, development of policies and procedures.  • Responsible for all IT infrastructures, clinical systems, telephony, Windows and AS/400 support.  • Project management support for adding Order Entry and Nurse Charting modules to the healthcare management system, requiring work flow analysis, process assessment, and hospital staff interviews.  • Managed Citrix XenApp 6.0 farm, virtual applications and desktops. IT Services Manager - Sr. Network Engineer Liquid Environmental Solutions June 2007 to July 2009 • Supervised desktop technician and business analyst supporting 15 remote plants and offices.  • Managed support for Windows 2003/2008 platform, MS Exchange, SQL, Dynamics 10 (GP), Citrix Presentation Server 4.5/5.0, Merlin PBX, and Avaya IP Office phone systems.  • Prepped organization to go public with regards to Sarbanes Oxley IT rules and regulations.  • Responsible for hardware and software support related to network and security devices.  • Upgraded Citrix to 5.0, and from Exchange 2003 to Exchange 2007, added Dell Equallogic SAN, moved the enterprise onto Windows 2008 Server platform and upgraded production databases to SQL 2005 over 9 new HP DL servers, totaling 30 servers. IT Director Xtria Healthcare, LLC March 2006 to May 2007 Out of Business)    • Managed internal IT department for a Imaging PACS development and consulting firm.  • Liaison for Corp and 3rd party auditors during SOX audit, made remediation recommendations  • Remainder of the time was planning and completing the disbandment.  • Absorbed by Parent Company tasked to create a consolidated IT service desk and develop an SOP to define support processes, procedures, SLA's, and incident handling.  • Hiring and initial training of Service Desk Analyst on customer service, proper ticket creation, prioritizing based on urgency level of and appropriate response times per SLA. IT Director - Sr. Systems Administrator Lubbock Heart Hospital November 2003 to March 2006 • Led/Worked on design and implementation of all IT, HIS, Telecom, PACS, LIS, Pharmacy and, Cardio MAC Lab systems for a startup acute care hospital.  • Provided leadership and direction to the IT department and personnel.  • Primary Lead for support and maintenance on all hardware to include IBM Wintel servers AS/400 iSeries, Avaya PBX, Cardiology and Radiology PACS systems.  • Administrator for all applications MS Server 2003, MS Exchange, MS SQL, MS ISA, Citrix XP Metaframe, Dictaphone, RightFax, XP workstations and Avaya PBX. Education Microsoft Certified Professional University of Maryland - Fort Bragg, NC 1993 Skills testing, Active Directory, security