IT SOX/ Security Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> SOX/<span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Audit Manager Riverside, CA 12+ years of progressive and professional experience in Top Tier companies performing IT, Financial, & Security Auditing, Business Process Improvements, and technical/data analysis  • 10+ years of in depth knowledge of SOX 404: IT governance and effectiveness, IT Program Management, controls, implementation, testing, monitoring, and remediation.  • Successful in building and managing key client relationships and diverse teams to successfully deliver project requirements within tight deadlines and budgets.  • Exceptional interpersonal communications skills, comfortable discussing issues from C-Level executives to IT personnel.  • A result-oriented team player who acquires knowledge quickly and adapts easily to new challenges. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT SOX/ Security Analyst Various Consulting Engagements April 2014 to Present • Manage the IT SOX Audit process for a $4B company in its 2nd year of SOX Audit.  • Perform IT controls monitoring, review evidence gathering & examination, and remediation.  • Conduct HealthCare Exchange (HIX) compliance audits for hardware & software applications. Responsible for close-loop internal audits starting with initial meeting with the control owners to status updates of the remediation process.  • Monitored and reviewed staff workpaper's for accuracy and completeness. Sr. Associate KPMG - Los Angeles, CA October 2012 to March 2014 • Evaluated data security measures to identify vulnerabilities and suggested remediation methods.  • Created slides for C-level management over security findings related to DB2 & Unix/Linux.  • Managed & reviewed off shore's staff's IT controls testing and remediation.  • Updated process narratives for new in-scope applications & regions for an analytics client.  RFL: Better work life balance Sr. IT Compliance Analyst Jos A Bank - Hampstead, MD July 2011 to October 2012 • Lead IT and Business teams to successful remediation of IT controls. Reduced external audit deficiency findings by 50% from prior year.  • Identified IT Controls to optimize/consolidate/remove for SOX vs. Compliance purposes.  • Performed testing over AS400, access provisioning, restricted access, and change control.  • Assisted in security reviews/data collection for PCI Compliance.  RFL: Moved to California to be with the spouse Senior IT Consultant/ Security Technical Specialist University of Maryland & Grant Thornton May 2010 to July 2011 • Performed IT audits to confirm no repeat findings from prior legislative audits.  • Validated corrective actions for business process audit findings. Conducted security audits for Active Directory, firewalls, anti-virus, change management, UNIX, and Oracle security settings.  • Identified gaps in documented policies, practices, and controls per FISMA/FISCAM guidance.  • Performed testing to ensure policies, practices, and controls are defined, documented, and evidenced over IT application along with ACL testing over payments.  • Supervised the development and training staff for both application and IT controls.  RFL: Commute; recruited by Jos A Bank to revamp their IT SOX Controls Sr. Compliance Analyst TIBCO Software Inc - Palo Alto, CA March 2008 to April 2010 • Strong Audit leadership experience in scoping, risk assessments, documenting narrative processes and controls, communicating deficiencies to senior management & external auditors, remediating deficiencies, and on-going review of controls.  • Conducted company-wide risk assessment and identify areas subject to the IT audit, evaluated their significance, and assess the level of risk associated with those areas. Refined and mapped a new IT-RCM to corroborate with the COBIT Risk Framework. Successfully reduced TIBCO's IT internal control count by 55%. Passed external audit (PwC) with a clean report in nine months.  • Performed testing over the IT controls (Oracle & PeopleSoft), PTP, Cash, Employee Related, and Financial Reporting cycles along with automated controls, reports and spreadsheet testing.  • Developed and created audit plans for IT and business process controls (manual & automated).  • Provided business and technical guidance to business and IT over the creation of an automated employee termination script for Active Directory and Oracle.  RFL: Moved to Maryland to be with the spouse Associate PricewaterhouseCoopers - San Jose, CA August 2005 to February 2008 • Managed staff, budget, and client relationships for multiple audit engagements. Developed timelines, risk assessments of controls, updated management of IT findings, and evaluated staff performance.  • Executed pre and post implementation reviews of ERP system upgrades for audit assurance.  • Interviewed/tested, documented, and created MLC (Management Letter Comment) relating to the controls over the company's IT systems for pre-404 clients.  • Audited Fortune 500 global corporations including documentation and testing of IT system controls for purpose of assessing the degree of financial audit reliance.  • Successfully executed IT system testing for Software/Internet & Medical Devices clients. Performed detailed testing of various IT related and automated financial controls for Oracle, PeopleSoft, SAP, & Microsoft Dynamics.  RFL: Left for a better opportunity Education MBA in Finance California State University BS in Business Administration San Jose State University Skills Information Security, Cyber Security, IT Audit (10+ years), Compliance, Application Security, Active Directory, Nist, Intrusion, It Security, access, security, Cisa, Cobit, Fisma, SOX Certifications/Licenses CISA August 2017 to Present