Research Director Research Director IT Manager, IT Project Manager, IT Security Project Manager, IT Help Desk Manager Naples, FL Professional successful in adverse and very competitive Environments, Progressively responsible with an earned  reputation in meeting time and budget goals, through better staff Management, setting priorities and teamwork.  Proficient in resource and labor procurement, training and coaching employees, systems implementation and  migration, and supporting technology-rich environments Experience includes IT Security Implementations,  Security Evaluations, various network architectures, Network design, installations and administration, Network  performance evaluation, IT Management, System Management, Project Management, Manage Agile Projects  using SCRUM, IT Consulting, Information services Management, Information system implementation as HR, ERP,  CRM and Helpdesk, Besides, a long experience in Teaching and training delivery. Work Experience Research Director Nueva Esparta University - Caracas, Venezuela June 2012 to March 2019 Responsible for managing all the research  activities of the university, as well as coordinating the research laboratory in Networks, Security.  Responsible for evaluating the research projects presented by the researchers, determine the feasibility  and type of financing that can be given. Teach courses in the area of networks and security at the undergraduate and postgraduate levels. Responsible of the research project "New Models of Legal and  Technical Security Certifications of Organizations". Manage fifteen researchers in networks, security,  administration and online education. IT Security Project Manager Centro de Tecnología NWEB, C.A June 2012 to October 2018 Develop and implement  IT security policies for organizations in financial areas, universities, technical support companies, food  distribution and health. Improve the reliability of software programs after collecting feedback from others and analyzing systems. Design and conduct programs aimed at educating others about security protocols  and protecting client data. Answer questions regarding security protocols, certifications and vulnerability of systems when presented and create reports to present to upper management. Manage a team of nine  employees. IT Project Manager Ingedigit C. A. January 2006 to May 2012 Managed the company's IT Projects for customers  including, Redesign of network infrastructure, Managed enterprise programs, practices, policies and standards for governance, architecture, operations, business continuity, and security, Plan, coordinated,  develop and implement information technology / systems to support multi-functions, such as: Finance,  Human Resources or Supply Chain Management, Network security evaluation project manager. Managed  a team of seven professionals. CIO UNEXPO University June 2003 to December 2005 Responsible of the Design and implementation of the nationwide  network and services, IT organization infrastructure and services, lead the reorganization, infrastructure  update, information system implementation, define procedures, systems and security for the nationwide  sites. Coordinate of the implementation of new information systems to support Finance, Human  Resources and Student records. Managed a team of twelve professionals. IT Technical Support Management and Security consultant OPSU, UNESUR University March 2001 to May 2003 Designs complex Network Systems, Develop and maintain  documentation and procedures for Network Administration and troubleshooting. Provide consulting on Information System, Network systems, coordinate and supervise the activities of the System support staff.  Nationwide responsible of evaluation and implementation of new IT infrastructure and information system.  Managed a team of twenty professionals. Full Professor Central University of Venezuela September 1997 to March 2001 Research and teaching in Design  and Implement Network Security Systems. Provide support and troubleshooting of Faculty Networks.  Design complex Network Systems. Configure, Install and maintain hardware and software, performance  maintenance and release updates on a timely basis. Monitor performance and availability of Windows,  Banyan, Novell and UNIX infrastructure. Develop and maintain documentation and procedures for Network Administration and troubleshooting. Provide consulting on Network systems, coordinate and  supervise the activities of the Network support staff. Identify and resolve bottlenecks, resolve problems and produce performance reports. Provide Technical leadership role in the delivery of solutions that are  complex. Provide Training and Technical presentation of Network solutions. Teach Security and Network  management courses at undergraduate level and postgraduate level courses. Perform research in network design, security and software distribution models. Managed a team of ten professionals Technical Support CREDIT SUISSE, FIRST BOSTON, USA. Network September 1996 to September 1997 One year Contract  on sabbatical). Support a Banyan Vines Network and NT Network Servers both a LAN and WAN  environment. Configure, install and maintain necessary hardware and software perform maintenance and release upgrades on a timely basis or as needed. Monitor performance and availability of both Banyan and NT infrastructure. Resolution of Mission Critical Issues for complex networked systems. Provide  Technical support, Managing and Administration of Servers. Designed and implemented a Network  Security Plan for the NT Network. Senior Team member coordinating migration from Banyan to NT.  Designed and Implemented in REMEDY schemes for Problem tracking. Senior Team member of the Change Control Committee. Analyze Monitored data and recommend solutions to problems. LAB  Coordinator. Managed a team of five professionals. Associate Professor, Director of Technology Information Services UCV University January 1990 to September 1996 Reorganized the IT and communication Department. Defined and developed a strategic Corporate  Systems and Technology five years plan. Designed and implemented the changes in Technology and services. Designed and Installed the Corporate Network. Provide leadership in Technology changes.  Implementation of enterprise wide LANs/WANs. Provide Training and orientation to engineers in Network  services, Network Management and Administration. Design solutions optimized to meet users  requirements. Participate and lead in various IT projects. Coordinate with different vendors, review  contracts and ensures compliance, facilitate hardware warranty, and supervise Network engineers  responsible for Network support and troubleshooting. Teach Security and Network management courses  at undergraduate level and postgraduate level courses. Perform research in network design, security and models of Security Certification. Managed a team of twenty five professionals. Aggregate Professor, Founding coordinator of postgraduate studies in computer science Department of Computer Science June 1985 to December 1989 UCV. Created postgraduate studies in computer science, direct the area of research in networks and communications. Teach postgraduate and undergraduate courses.  Coordinated the postgraduate committee and evaluate the applications of interested in carrying out postgraduate studies. Supervised the research of twelve researchers. Assistant Professor, Coordinator Electronic Laboratory July 1981 to April 1983 Science Faculty, UCV.  Supervised and maintained the infrastructure to support the teaching and research activities in electronics of the Computer Science department. Managed the work of ten people. Teacher of the courses Computer  Network, Teleprocessing and Computer Architecture. Assistant Professor, Director of the Computer Center, Science Faculty UCV. Restructure January 1979 to July 1981 the organization; improve services and integration with the network of services of the university. Teacher of the courses Computer Architecture, Electronic, Logical Design and Elective in Trends of Computer  Technology Supervised the work of fourteen people. Instructor Professor Computer Science Department September 1977 to January 1979 UCV. Teacher of the courses  Computer Architecture, Electronic, Logical Design and Elective in Trends of Computer Technology. System Programmer Analyst Telephone Company CANTV June 1976 to January 1979 Developed and Supported  Applications for control of the switching Network. Developed and Supported Applications for a Numeric  Control. Education Master of Mathematics in Computer Science in Mathematics University of Waterloo Canada - Waterloo, CA 1985 Bachelor in Computer Science in Computer Science Universidad Central de Venezuela 1977 Skills Scrum Master, PMP, SDLC, PM, Waterfall, CSM, Information Technology, Project Management, Itil, Software Development Awards ? Scholarship for postgraduate studies in Canada 1983-06 Certifications/Licenses Cloud Security Technician September 2018 to Present Cloud Administrator August 2018 to Present Consultant of Cloud Infraestructure as a Service (IaaS) July 2018 to Present Cloud Computing March 2018 to Present Computer Hacking Forensic Investigator July 2007 to Present Auditor ISO 27001 June 2008 to Present Integral Business Consultant October 2000 to Present Additional Information SKILLS    • Excellent communication skills, including strong listening and reading comprehension as well as public  speaking and writing.  • Ability to analyze complex systems, determining how they should work and how adjustments to their  operations will affect outcomes.  • Experience in teaching and training, particularly for end users who have little experience with computer  security.  • Information processing abilities, including the ability to break down data, compile material, or verify facts.  • Strong focus and good attention to details, which minimizes errors and improves system security.  • Problem solving oriented, positive aptitude, self confidence, ability to accept and learn criticism, good  communication, positive aptitude, management of time and budgets, team player and honesty.  • University Management Software: Student Transcript, Payroll, LMS Moodle, Network Technologies:  Windows Server, Banyan Vines, MySQL Server, VPN, WAN, VOIP. Operating Systems: Windows  95/98/XP/7/8/10, Linux, UNIX. Skilled in vendor management and strategic problem solving.