Engagement Manager/Technical Implementation Manager Engagement Manager/Technical Implementation Manager Engagement Manager/Technical Implementation Manager - MobileTec Inc Tampa, FL Work Experience Engagement Manager/Technical Implementation Manager MobileTec Inc January 2019 to Present •Accountable for the success of the assigned implementations by MobileTec PMO & CTO.  •Successfully manage and drive competing requests across simultaneous client engagements.  •Establish client relationships and lead the execution of the Project Manager's (PMP) Project Management Plan.  •Responsible for leading overseas development team and nationwide technical team to deliver successful Implementations' on time, creating customer success stories upon the completion of each project.  •Managed the successful infrastructure & technical implementation of a $1.6 Million Dollar Police, Fire, EMS, & Emergency Response Project at U.S Army Camp Arifjan & Camp Buehring, Kuwait to completion.  •Managed the successful infrastructure & technical implementation of a $1.2 Million Dollar Police, Fire, EMS, & Emergency Response Project in Tortola, British Virgin Islands to completion.  •Proactively communicate with internal resources and customers to ensure that expectations are always being met.  •Adeptly utilize our current internal Project Tracking methodologies to create work plans, activity objectives and Monitoring progression.  •Assist the Project Manager and CTO in the completion of RFP responses where technical clarification is needed.  •Collaborate with cross-functional internal and external teams, partners, to build schedules and plans; identify and manage dependencies with internal and/or external teams.  •Manage & Assign team members to specific tasks within the project, and deploy resources from internal departments, such as specialists to work in alignment with the customer in accordance with the Project Management Plan.  •Hold regular team meetings to review current projects & provide weekly reports to the Project Manager concerning customer relations and project performance.  •Assist with scoping projects and planning resources (Internally & Externally) in conjunction with the Project Manager, & fulfilling the role as the direct point of contact (through the Project Manager) for customer technical requests and/or issues as the primary escalation point for any problems.  •Exercise independent judgment within defined Mobiletec guidelines, practices & procedures to determine the appropriate course of action.  •Manage vendor accounts which include invoices, orders, payments, hardware & software delivery terms and conditions for assigned projects Nationally & Internationally in accordance with the Statement of Work..  •Effectively manage strategic customer accounts as it relates to existing projects and uncovering future opportunities within the account.  •Ensure identified business outcomes are met through the successful completion of service engagements and/or  Statements of work (SOWs) and each specific deliverable within.  •Handle issues & risks proactively; and escalate per MobileTec & customer standard operating procedures (SOPs).  •Manage project to time, budget, and contracted deliverables, including planning, scheduling, and milestone reviews.  •Conduct weekly and monthly status report meetings internally, and to the client as needed; at key project milestones and provide project status reports on the effectiveness of the engagement against the baseline plan.  •Define in advance and secure sign-off on the acceptance criteria for project deliverables, work with the team to establish delivery dates and oversee the review of client deliverables to confirm client acceptance.  •Ensure quality & time management processes are followed for (change controls, implementation objectives).  •Strong leadership & management abilities necessary to influence customers, team members, and key stakeholders. Information Security/Network Admin/Hardware & Software Support Imerys - Atlanta, GA July 2017 to January 2019 •Provide support for users via in person/walkups, Desk-phone, Mobile, Email, Cherwell ticketing system, and Remote Desktop connectivity (Teamviewer & Dameware), to resolve hardware, software, peripheral, mobile device, account, and application related issues and incidents.  •Primary point of contact for Apple and Android Mobile devices for set-up, configuration, and troubleshooting.  •Provides support for all IT equipment, including audio/visual equipment for presentations/meetings, and the international video conferencing system.  •Perform Administration duties with Windows Administrative tools such as Active Directory for user account maintenance, account permissions, system and share folder access, and new hire and terminated employees.  •VPN Connectivity support (Cisco AnyConnect).  •Maintains documentation of systems, software acquisitions, repairs, and systems configurations.  •Test and evaluate new hardware, and software before deploying to the user/customer, to ensure hardware and software safety, stability, and functionality.  •International Network Account Security Admin utilizing Active Directory, Okta, and Google Admin Panel for mobile and system account access DOMA (North America) and DOME (Europe, Asia, and South American) customers.  •Provide a walkthrough tutorial and documentation for new and existing users/customers on new hardware and software.  •Provide documentation for new hire employees, containing system login credentials, and a brief system tutorial on the hardware and software that the customer will utilize on a daily basis.  •Maintain current IT hardware and software license inventory.  •Responsible for moving and reconfiguring IT equipment, and peripherals during office moves.  •Assists in planning for asset replacement, retirement and decommission of computer systems on a quarterly basis.  •Provide input and recommendations in the development and review of automation policies and procedures. Ensure compliance with IT Administrative requirements.  •Monthly on call schedule for after-hours, weekend, and holiday IT related emergencies.  •Highest priority on working with Corporate VIP (Board of Directors) and top tier users/customers.  •Provide on-site and remote technical service support, installation, configuration and problem resolution in Windows/ Apple / MAC / Mobility and Network environments.  •Perform windows configuration, and managing multiple systems through the imaging and configuration process.  •System imaging via a custom created system image specific to each Dell Laptop/Desktop model, and manual application installation specific to each individual department and user/customer.  •Maintain an advanced understanding of IT hardware repair and OS management at all levels (Windows 98 to Windows 10, Dell, & Microsoft related assets.)  •Provide technical support to customers on operational or maintenance aspects of system equipment and serves as customer contact on technical and service related problems.  •Diagnoses mechanical, hardware, software and system failures using established procedures.  •Determine the most cost-effective repair resolution to minimize customer downtime, and providing a loaner asset that has been imaged and tested to ensure the customer can perform their daily job duties while the primary asset is being repaired or replaced.  •Monitor and updating tickets/incidents in detail for the purpose of demonstrating compliance with issue response and resolution, Service Level Agreements, logging daily activities, and documenting solutions.  •Function as primary point of contact and communication with customer from assignment of ticket to successful resolution of issue, including scheduling work and keeping customer aware of work status and solution progress.  •Evaluate current processes, procedures, and technology with an emphasis on identifying methods of improving effectiveness in providing support to customers.  •Coordinate support and repair activities with asset manufacturers for warranty repair and service. Network/ IT Support & Product Management IG Design Group - Atlanta, GA June 2016 to July 2017 •Maintain network facilities in individual machines, such as drivers and settings of personal computers as well and printers.  •Provided escalated IT support including hardware troubleshooting, backup and recovery, email communication and application support.  •Network administration (including backup, security management, and user account management, e- mail systems including e-mail web server, internet access, office systems and application support).  •Hands-on experience racking servers, installing software and hardware components.  •Telephonic and hands-on experience troubleshooting and resolving PC hardware, software, and network, email, security and application issues.  •Demonstrated capacity to solution problems through phone, email and direct contact.  •Track record of increasing responsibility in help desk service delivery arena.  •Outstanding customer service skills and ability to successfully articulate solution steps to customers of varying degrees of product knowledge and problem-solving competency.  •Developed team mentoring abilities; noted ability to train and assist others, coupled with an ability to be mentored by more experienced team members to gain efficiencies.  •Performs technology needs analysis.  •Roll out hardware and software to ensure optimal deployment of resources.  •Administer, manage and set-up desktop computers, laptops, printers, routers, switches, smartphones, software deployment, security updates and patches.  •Prepare short-term and long-term production forecast reports, and analyses for management.  •Facilitates inventory turnover and product availability by reviewing and adjusting inventory levels and production schedules.  •Ordered new office supplies, stationary equipment, and ensured proper assembling in a timely fashion.  •Successfully set-up New Hire laptop/desktop computers, work & mobile phones, properly mapped the users to the necessary network drives, and printers in accordance with the departmental needs.  •Daily manager of domestic and international shipping and receiving for DHL, FEDEX, ULINE, AND UPS.  •Responsible for ordering, assembling, and arranging office equipment, desks, chairs, bookcases, product display cases/shelves.  •Consistently able to lift in excess of 200lbs daily.  •A proven track record for organization, and office setup.  •Scheduled, managed the service ticket requests for commercial printing devices.  • Liaison on behalf of the company to schedule and communicate with the building engineers in reference to power outages, potential security issues, the air conditioning system for the server room, and individual departments.  •Responsible for daily delivering mail and packages to each department in a timely manner.  •Troubleshoot connectivity issues, daily for existing users on site and remotely.  •Complete operational requirements by scheduling and assigning tasks and following up on work results. Technical Network & Hardware/Software Support SPRINT CORPORTATION - Atlanta, GA May 2015 to June 2016 •Provides direct customer service support for equipment related problems by performing in-house servicing, exchange, and repair of company's wireless products.  •Collaborate with the technical services team members to assess near and long term network capacity needs, and implement strategic plans to meet existing and future requirements.  •Monitor & support Network system access permissions.  •Support & troubleshoot Peripheral Network connectivity problems.  •Practice network asset management, including maintenance of network component inventory.  •Oversee new and existing equipment, hardware, and software upgrades relating to network & telephony equipment.  •Receive, prioritize, and respond to incoming work orders, calls, and/or emails regarding equipment and network connectivity problems.  •Ensure network connectivity throughout a company's LAN/WAN infrastructure is on par with technical considerations.  •Manage and ensure effective operation of all network hardware and equipment, including routers, switches, hubs and etc.  •Support & resolve network cloud based storage issues.  •Responsible for the installation of Operating System, application software, assembling & General fault finding of software, & hardware.  •Troubleshoot network connectivity for the mobile and wireless network.  •Effective problem resolution for failed connectivity and network access restrictions.  •Provides resolution to customer issues relating to equipment problems, including but not limited to operational, maintenance and repair aspects of equipment.  •Performs multiple inventory management tasks including organization of products and regularly scheduled counts, DHRP and parts receiving, proper utilization of the (WEL) Warranty Exchange List, Processing, verifying, and shipping vendor and buyback handsets returns timely and accurately and in acceptable condition.  •Successfully perform system & network upgrades, to ensure consistent network connectivity for an effective work environment. Engagement Manager/Business Systems Analyst FPL/Nextera Energy - Juno Beach, FL December 2012 to May 2015 •Network, Application & hardware support for Nuclear, Wind and Power Generation Sites/plants.  •Analysis and coordination of migrating computers to the Windows 7 operating system for employees across 15 Business Units.  •Ensure network connectivity of all servers, workstations, and telephony equipment, and other network appliances.  •Research, test, and analyze installed software & hardware for various corporate staff business units in an effort to ensure suitability/stability.  •Maintain network facilities in individual machines, such as drivers and settings of personal computers as well as printers.  •Administer servers, desktop computers, printers, routers, switches, firewalls, phones, personal digital assistants, smartphones, software deployment, security updates and patches.  •Install and maintain network hardware and software.  •Determine network and system requirements.  •Conduct end-user interviews to create a system deployment schedule.  •Fundamental understanding of system development life cycle and project management concepts.  •Application & Database conversion to ensure remediation compliance.  •Perform Manual application integration & system upgrades to ensure department specific standards are met.  •Work closely with Subject Matter Experts to ensure functionality of all applications.  •Troubleshoot network connectivity and share drive errors on a classified network.  •Perform memory and hard drive upgrades to ensure stability for the working user. Business & Systems Analyst Bank of America/Merrill Lynch - Jacksonville, FL August 2011 to December 2012 •Led and developed full-scale project plans and executions, for Security Audit Logs, Application Remediation and Retired/Decommissioned Applications.  •Managed all aspects of the project business plan for Application Remediation, Application Disputes and Exceptions.  •Resolved, traced and escalated critical issues to minimize project risk factors.  •Reported on project progress and communicated relevant information to superiors, on a weekly basis  •Monitor network access and performance to troubleshoot problem areas as needed to identify and remedy network performance issues.  •Analyze, and monitor application data.  •Assign configuration of authentication and authorization of directory services  •Created Power-point presentations and organized meetings for successful project resolution.  •Create quick response documentation, pertaining to AMT Required Practices Application Manager inquiries.  •Monitor system access compliance of third party clients and vendors.  • Security Audit Logs & Application Compliance management.  •Develop, and modify system procedures as necessary to ensure client satisfaction and the evolution of company processes.  •Apply & provide technical knowledge in determining end-to-end compliance requirements for large projects involving line of business, software/hardware developers and application managers.  •Process technical inquiries regarding system and application access.  •Work closely with business partners to define strategies for technical solutions, determine requirements, and develop functional processes based on the analysis of line of business needs, objectives and existing systems infrastructure.  •Assist & support Application Managers to ensure applications are compliant with Bank of America Merrill Lynch standards for data transmission and encryption.  •Systems Monitor (ensuring proper operation of the operating system and escalation for problem resolution as necessary).  •Process Exception & Dispute requests, to Remediate Applications, which are non-compliant.  •Process and remove Retired/Decommissioned Applications from the Remediation Process.  •Project Manager for Security Audit Logs and Application Compliance  •Organize and guide project operations throughout the course of the project.  •Build, lead and direct Security Audit Logging and Application Compliance teams to meet project objectives.  •Coordinate, modify and create schedules as required for successful project resolution.  •Work with client departments to coordinate deliverables and content integration. Technical Support/Systems Analyst CTI/US Navy Dept of Defense Support - Jacksonville, FL July 2007 to July 2011 •Provide Classified and Unclassified Support to the United States Navy & the United States Marines.  •Responsible for providing initial point of contact support to Dept. of Defense NMCI/CNIC Military, & Government employees with MAC (Move, Add, and Change) requests.  •Provide classified network support on the U.S. Military's Intranet System.  •Successfully set-up and activated newly hired and transferring personal on the appropriate networks and share drives.  •Monitored & supported system access for classified and unclassified personnel.  •Perform credential validation for network access.  •Provide consistent customer service throughout the lifecycle of the MAC request.  •Utilizes NMCI EDS web tools to submit MAC (Move, Add, and Change) requests.  •Process Separation of Duty/Asset reassignment orders for upper Echelons.  •Ensure all Military and Government personnel, have proper system and application access.  •Communicate and support regional ISSM's, IAM's, ACTR's, CTR's, ITPOC's, and SME's in reference to MAC requests, status tracking, audits and initial Problem Resolution.  •Interpret Dept. of Defense/CNIC policies and government regulations affecting MAC procedures.  •Determination of cost effectiveness versus burn rate of MAC usage.  •Active Directory Support Services and modification. Education Bachelor of Divinity in Counseling Next Dimension University 2016 to 2017 Bachelor of Science in Criminal Justice Edward Waters College 2003 to 2008 Skills Project plans, Rfp, Network administration, Server admin, Network connectivity, Wireless network, Application software, Sales, Scheduling, problem solving, Marketing, Project Management, Product management, Organizational Skills, Inventory, Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Office, Management, Excel, Photoshop, Outlook Additional Information SKILLS  • Dameware Remote PC Connectivity    • Teamviewer Remote PC Connectivity    • Microsoft Server Admin Support    • Microsoft Administrative Tools (Active Directory - User's Computers)    • Lotus Notes Administrator    • Android Mobility Operating System    • Apple iOS Mobility Operating System    • Microsoft Outlook Support    • SharePoint Usage functionality    • LAN, WAN Network Support    • Windows System Imaging    • Google Office Suite Administrator    • Okta System Security Administrator    • Microsoft Windows experience with Windows 98 - Windows 10    • Hardware & Software Inventory Management    • Identity & Access Management    • IAM Service Policies & Procedures    • AMT Required Practices Web Application    • Microsoft Office (Power-point, Word, Excel)    • Microsoft Live Meeting    • Application & System Security    • Navy Marine Corp Intranet (N.M.C.I)    • 16 years of Microsoft Office Application experience