Security Analyst <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Security Analyst - PERSPECTA Springfield, VA Highly motivated Cyber Security Analyst with a strong background in Mathematics and Physics. Extensive understanding of Data analysis, Programming languages (R, Python, SQL, C), and Cyber Threat Monitoring Work Experience Security Analyst PERSPECTA August 2018 to Present • Performs network security monitoring and incident response for 5+ government customers across 30+ programs  • Maintains records of security monitoring and incident response activities, utilizing case management and ticketing technologies.  • Monitors and analyzes Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) to identify security issues for remediation.  • Recognizes potential, successful, and unsuccessful intrusion attempts and compromises thorough reviews and analyses of relevant event detail and summary information  • Communicates alerts to agencies regarding intrusions and compromises to their network infrastructure, applications and operating systems.  • Consolidates and conducts comprehensive analysis of threat data obtained from classified, proprietary, and open source resources to provide indication and warnings of impending attacks against unclassified and classified networks.  • Generates end-of-shift reports for documentation and knowledge transfer to subsequent analysts on duty  • Used Arcsight and Splunk on daily basis for monitoring and analyzing purpose. Student Trainee IT Specialist at AC APHIS, USDA April 2016 to April 2018 • Served as a member of the technical support team.  • Participated in the work of special projects and assignments, addressing AC's application needs, working with IT staff in problem-solving information security related issues.  • Identified and resolved standard and routine problems with systems, equipment, and software, including system integration and configuration management.  • Provided technical support for system capabilities, equipment requirements, data communications requirements, hardware, software, or operating systems capabilities and requirements. Worked with Windows Active Directory and Event Logs.  • Worked with PKI model and learned about x.509 Federal Common Certificate and PKIS Certificates. Got trained about the IPsec protocol (AH, ESP and Internet Key Exchange)  • Served as the first responder for security related issues. Worked with Windows Firewalls (Host based and Network Based), Wireshark, Nmap, Metasploit, Nessus and Splunk under supervision to maintain secure network. Education Masters of Science in APPLIED INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY in APPLIED INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY George Mason University 2015 to 2017 Bachelors of Science in APPLIED MATHEMATICS in APPLIED MATHEMATICS George Mason University 2011 to 2015 Skills SQL, Excel, Python, C, R, Mathematics Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  • Have great experience with C (System Programming)  • Knows R (Deep Learning, Clustering, Classification, Regression, Natural Language Processing, Reinforcement Learning, Data Processing)  • Have hands on experience with Python programming language (Machine Learning, Supervised Learning, Unsupervised Learning, Deep Learning, Clustering, Classification, Regression)  • Knows Oracle SQL queries and programming  • Have hands on experience with Oracle Big Data Platform (Hadoop, Hive, HiveQL, Pig)  • Have good experience of working in Unix (System programming using UNIX) and Linux operating system (BASH)  • Learned how to use Kali Linux (Tor, Proxy chain, Macchanger, SSL Strip, NetCat) for Ethical hacking  • Knows how to detect and characterize an incident, collect data (Live data collection, Forensic Duplication), analyze data (Event logs, NTFS, Windows Registry) and remediate for Cyber Security Incident Response process  • Have knowledge about FISMA and NIST guidelines and Risk Management Framework  • Proficient in Microsoft word, Microsoft PowerPoint, Microsoft Access (building database and perform different functions on them), Microsoft Visio and Excel (Formulas and Functions, PivotTable, Graphs)  • Language: Proficient in Bengali and Hindi language and understands Urdu.    RELATED COURSEWORK (GMU)  • Probability  • Applied Mathematics  • Linear Algebra  • Numerical Analysis  • Advanced Linear Algebra  • Big Data Science  • Database Management