IT Field Technician <span class="hl">IT</span> Field Technician IT Field Technician Cañon City, CO • Results driven IT professional with extensive experience in Service Desk, Help Desk, Desktop Support  • Excellent analytical, troubleshooting and PC skills  • Proven strong organizational skills with the ability to multi-task in a fast-paced environment  • Effective communicator with strong leadership skills  • Able to contribute in a team environment as well as an individual contributor  • Customer Service Professional  • Received numerous Certificates of Award for Exemplary Customer Service and Production (meeting deadlines) and twice received Employee of the Month recognition Work Experience IT Field Technician Vodastra July 2016 to June 2019 Responsible for the setup, configuration, repair, break/fix, moves/add/changes and integration of new and existing computing hardware, software, networking, telecommunications (VoIP handsets and systems) and other computer-related technologies and peripherals, image re-image PC's  Set up & configure Laptop's, Desktop's. Diagnose & repair hardware & software issues.  Set up & configure printers. Upgrade networks. Install Encryption Software. Self Employed (owner) PC Tech. Dr January 2009 to July 2016 PC Technician - Customer Service  • Make service calls. Diagnose and repair both hardware and software issues for PC's and Laptops including but not limited to: Hard drives, CPU's, motherboards, video and sound cards, printers.  • Install and trouble-shoot networks.  • Install operating systems and other required/requested software  • Build computers  • Provide a free 'tune-up' kit with services. i.e. Check hard drive(s) & registry for errors. Clean up any spyware, viruses, temp internet files and defrag hard drive. Set system to 'optimal' performance. "Department of Homeland Security" CIS Contract IBM "Department of Homeland Security" August 2008 to January 2009 Service Desk Analyst    • Resolve technical problems that originate by telephone, voice mail, e-mail and Notifier in a secured Help Desk environment for the Department of Homeland Security customer.  • Provide first level troubleshooting for custom applications.  • Reset client password accounts for National Systems, Novell, NT accounts, Email accounts using Remote Desktop and IRMNET/Active Directory Software Interface.  • Record all incidents in problem tracking system (Remedy). Determine issue; document Remedy Case with extreme accuracy.  • Troubleshoot first level help desk calls including email issues, creating email accounts as well as troubleshoot software & hardware related computer issues.  • Assign Remedy cases to responsible Tier 2 agents and continue to manage Remedy cases through to resolved/closed status. ICE Contract SAIC - "Department of Homeland Security" August 2007 to August 2008 Level I Analyst    • Resolve technical problems that originate by telephone, voice mail, e-mail and Notifier in a secured Help Desk environment for the Department of Homeland Security customer.  • Provide first level troubleshooting for over 450 custom applications.  • Reset client password accounts for National Systems, Novell, NT accounts, Email accounts using Remote Desktop and IRMNET/Active Directory Software Interface.  • Record all incidents in problem tracking system (Remedy). Determine issue; document Remedy Case with extreme accuracy.  • Troubleshoot first level help desk calls including email issues, creating email accounts as well as troubleshoot software & hardware related computer issues.  • Assign Remedy cases to responsible Tier 2 agents and continue to manage Remedy cases through to resolved/closed status.  • Create and/or update procedures and Discovery documentation.  • Act as a resource for Level I analysts; train and mentor new Level I Help Desk staff. Senior Help Desk Analyst Northrop Grumman Corporation August 2000 to August 2007 Resolve technical problems that originate by telephone, voice mail, e-mail and Notifier in a secured  Help Desk environment for the Department of Homeland Security customer.  • Provide first level troubleshooting for over 450 custom applications.  • Reset client password accounts for National Systems, Novell, NT accounts, Email accounts using Remote Desktop and IRMNET/Active Directory Software Interface.  • Record all incidents in problem tracking system (Remedy). Determine issue; document Remedy Case with extreme accuracy.  • Troubleshoot first level help desk calls including email issues, creating email accounts as well as troubleshoot software & hardware related computer issues.  • Assign Remedy cases to responsible Tier 2 agents and continue to manage Remedy cases through to resolved/closed status.  • Create and/or update procedures and Kanisa documentation.  • Act as a resource for lower level analysts; train and mentor new Level I Help Desk staff. • Create Remedy macro's to assist with Remedy case resolution in a timely manner and help ensure the highest, consistent quality of Remedy cases are created.    Northrop Grumman Corporation Lead Help Desk Analyst SMP JEDMICS December 2001 to July 2003 • Trouble-shoot first level Help Desk calls and determined issues.  • Validated customer profile and collected customer and problem details in the trouble ticket using Remedy including problem description and/or system configuration; validated and updated customer name, address, and contact information and validated customer's hardware.  • Trained new Level I Help Desk staff and ensured SLA's were met Dispatched tickets to responsible Tier 2 agent and managed trouble ticket through to resolved/closed status including getting updates from vendors.  • Created and updated procedures and documentation to operate Help Desks.  • Distributed monthly reports/statistics to managers and team.  • Voluntary 'on-call' contact person for after-hours priority issues regarding Remedy tickets.  • Coordinated with team, provided timely reminders and updates. Dispatcher Honda August 2000 to December 2001 • Maintained and updated daily both ASTEA and Honda Remedy databases with extreme accuracy in a timely manner -- a high priority account that includes time limits to database updates.  • Maintained professional customer relationships with Honda Field Engineers answering questions concerning their accounts and updating their personal work orders.  • Implemented daily reconciliation between the two databases to insure accurate updates.  • Lead other Honda Dispatchers insuring smooth "day-to-day" operations. Clearinghouse Lead Analyst S.C.C. Communications July 1996 to October 1999 • Maintained the E911 database with extreme accuracy.  • Provided customer service and established great customer relationships with various telephone companies and Police Departments in resolving issues.  • Mentored and trained new employees.  • Updated the E911 database daily to ensure the customer's address is current and correct.  • Sent and retrieved data via modem through ProComm software to telephone companies.  • Worked with email on a daily basis to resolve work related issues for business accounts. Skills Printers, Active directory, Exchange, Networking, Remedy, Android, Voip, Rsa, Tokens, Netware, Internet explorer, Ms office, Blackberry, Acrobat, Adobe acrobat, Lotus notes, Novell Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Systems Dos 6.2, Novell NetWare, MS Windows 9x, 2000, NT/XP/Vista, 7 Ultimate, 8.1, Windows 10x    Hardware: VoIP, Android devices, I-pad, Blackberry devices, computer/laptop systems, HP DeskJet/LaserJet printers. SecurID Tokens    Software: Remedy, A2B Teleview, Active Directory, Adobe Acrobat, BV-Admin, Crystal Reporting, Internet Explorer, Chrome, Firefox, Lotus Notes, MS Office, Skype  User Manager, RSA-ACE Secure-ID Management Tool  Networking Active Directory, Remote Desktop Connection, Ping, Exchange, Novell