Security Officer <span class="hl">Security</span> Officer Security Officer Burke, VA A skilled PC hardware and software troubleshooter and a dedicated network professional who is self-motivated with experience managing and maintaining computers in a Windows 8/7/Vista/NT/2000/XP environment. Veteran of the Armed Forces, with 20 years of performance-oriented leadership and professionalism. I am looking for work opportunity in an organization where hard work, discipline and loyalty are recognized and rewarded.    Security Clearance: Top Secret    Personal Qualities  Goal oriented, hardworking and trustworthy individual who thrives in a team oriented and customer centered work environment. Able to work under demanding conditions. Works well independently and as a team member and effectively communicates with personnel at all levels. Work Experience Security Officer Guardsmark - Chantilly, VA March 2013 to December 2013 Secures premises and personnel by patrolling property; inspecting buildings, equipment, and access points; permitting entry.  • Prevents losses and damage by reporting occurrences; informing violators of policy and procedures; deters trespassers. Human Resources Specialist/ IT Technician United States Army August 1989 to February 2013 Maintained all office and school computer workstations providing support to over 280 personnel to include government contractors, USAR personnel, and adjunct faculty.  • Assist in imaging over 1,500 computers from Windows Vista to Windows 7 along with additional IT assets such as network printers, plotters and digital senders.  • Create, track, escalate and close trouble tickets in Remedy.  . Desktop Support Technician United States Army - Pentagon, VA, US March 2004 to July 2005 Responsible for responding and resolving customer requests, inquiries and complaints in courteous and professional manner the first time.  • Utilizes Enterprise Administrator (EA) to reset passwords, unlock, enable/disable accounts on SIPRNET/NIPRNET systems.  • Experience with MS Exchange by configuring PSTs, PABs for users and educating users on how to manage personal folders.  • Configures laptops for Remote Access Service (RAS) and dial-up networking.    Network Operations Controller  • Ensures resolution of trouble tickets requiring intensive customer support, sensitive handling, or affecting VIPs.  • Uses monitoring tools such as HP Open View, NT Manage and NIS Portal for network status and reporting.  • Monitors NT Manage on classified systems and e-mail traffic.  • Monitors job queues, researches fix actions, prepares time-sensitive reports on major network outages.  • Sends out Customer Service Alerts (CSAs) when change in normal network operation will affect users.  • Compiles daily statistical reports of network and Help Desk performance data. Call Center Technical Analyst United States Army - Vienna, VA November 2003 to March 2004 Provide Tier 2 technical support responding to calls and tickets to manage fallout events resulting from the Wireless Number Portability process.  • Troubleshoots cases of Wireless Number Portability conflict between wireless/wire line carriers.  • Calls customers and wireless/wireline carriers to verify port request and confirm successful porting of telephone numbers.  • Provide complete and accurate documentation of fallout events using Clarify tracking system. Help Desk Analyst United States Army - Pentagon, VA, US June 2002 to November 2003 Provide professional and courteous Level I/II help desk support to U.S. Air Force military and DoD personnel.  • Ability to work with customers to isolate/resolve computer/network problems over the telephone.  • Uses System Management Server (SMS) Remote Control utility to remotely access network computers to resolve problems. Desktop Technician United States Army - Fort Belvoir, VA December 2001 to June 2002 Migrated 2500 users from Static IP routes and configured computers for DHCP.  • Used Ghost imaging to upgrade computers from Windows NT 4.0 w/Novell Client to Windows 2000 Professional.  • Troubleshooting IP networks using TCP/IP utilities (IPCONFIG, TRACERT, PING).  • Provide Level II Help Desk Support to customers operating Windows 9x/NT/2000.    Excerpts from Stateside Evaluation Reports:  "Thinks logically and always uses common sense."  "Performed exceptionally well under pressure and without supervision."  "Demonstrated dependability, work ethic, attention to detail, and selfless service above and beyond his rank and training."    Excerpts from Overseas Evaluation Reports:  "Constantly demonstrated an extremely high degree of excellence."  "Instilled the desire to put forth the maximum effort."  "Achieved results when confronted with major responsibilities and limited resources." Education Bachelors of Science in Business Administration Stratford University Diploma in Network Management Stratford University Skills Master Resilience Instructor, Sustainability Officer Certifications/Licenses CompTia A+ October 2011 to November 2014 CompTia Network+ November 2011 to November 2014