Senior IT Program/Project Manager, ServiceNow (ERP-Cloud) Senior <span class="hl">IT</span> Program/Project Manager, ServiceNow (ERP-Cloud) Senior IT Program/Project Manager, ServiceNow (ERP-Cloud) - Advance Auto Parts, Inc (Apex Systems, Inc.) Raleigh, NC Highly motivated, results-driven IT professional with 15+ years of experience in  Program/Project and Portfolio Management roles. Successful accomplishments include managing the delivery of complex application development initiatives, enterprise release management, and SaaS based service management deployments and implementations. Work Experience Senior IT Program/Project Manager, ServiceNow (ERP-Cloud) Advance Auto Parts, Inc (Apex Systems, Inc.) April 2019 to Present Responsible for the execution and delivery of the ServiceNow application across the enterprise. (ITSM, ITOM, Platform, ITBM, Security and Compliance modules). Activities included OCM (Organizational Change Management), stakeholder management, and 3rd party vendor management of system's integration partner, budget management, and MDM/Data Lake integration. Senior IT Project Manager, Oracle Financials (ERP-Cloud) Advance Auto Parts, Inc (Apex Systems, Inc.) February 2019 to April 2019 Responsible for the Architecture & Compliance workstreams.  Facilitated the development of the logical design (Future-state) and integration of the legacy applications with the cloud based solution. (P2P, O2C, R2R). The Compliance workstream included facilitating the Roles and Controls review and validation for out-of- the box functionality. (Powered Methodology-KPMG). Senior IT Project Manager, Enterprise Security SAS Institute June 2018 to January 2019 Responsible for Enterprise Identity Access Management (IAM) implementation using 3rd party software solution. (Saviynt & Okta) Additional duties include scope, schedule, budget, resource planning and vendor management. Senior IT Project Manager, Security, Application Development General Dynamics IT - Fairfax, VA June 2017 to June 2018 Responsible for multiple project execution and delivery using full project management lifecycle methodologies. Agile and Waterfall Implemented an Identity Access Management system for compliance with Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement DFARS across the GDIT enterprise. (30K users) 3rd party vendor solution RSA Secure ID Access. These 2-factor authentication security controls were implemented based on the information security guidance in NIST Special Publication 800-171. Responsibilities include scope, schedule, budget and resource planning in a matrix managed organization.  Responsibilities included the development of use cases and user stories, creating a detailed MS project plan that included Design, Development, Implementation and Operational handoff tasks with stage gating. Provided regular status updates on the progress of projects to all stakeholders by presenting reports describing project accomplishments, risks, and issue management. Managed relationships with the business clients. Engaged vendor for escalated support as needed. IT Project Manager, Cisco Unified Communications and Video Infrastructure Cisco Systems, Inc - Raleigh, NC January 2012 to November 2016 Responsible for project management and implementation of various large scale Unified Communications on UCS, Webex, Jabber, Telepresence, Collaboration Edge, Unity Connection and Spark Collaboration related projects across the Cisco Enterprise. Internal User base > 100K. Cross functional teams included architecture and design engineers. Additional responsibilities included portfolio and vendor management, monthly stakeholder communications reporting, and resource planning. IT Program Manager, Enterprise Release Management Cisco Systems, Inc - Raleigh, NC January 2008 to December 2012 Infrastructure - Responsible for continuous production release cycle coordination of Database Hosting/ERP, Application and Web Services, Application Messaging Service, Security Services, Networking, and QA test environments. This included storage migrations and full integrated support of Test Transition cycles, QA testing and Production Go-Live support tasks and activities. Budget management ($100K quarterly run rate) included contract and vendor management. Project Manager IT, Application Development Cisco Systems, Inc - Raleigh, NC January 2005 to December 2008 Responsibilities included application development and production  support of strategic applications and processes supporting the Cisco Global Technical Assistance Center (TAC).  Service Sales & Marketing (CIBER entitlement system).  Asia Customer Migration. Contract and Vendor Management. IT Analyst/Project Manager, Production Support Cisco Systems, Inc - Raleigh, NC April 2000 to December 2004 Clarity/Oracle 11i/Perl/Java/Remedy  Responsibilities included application development and production  support of strategic applications and processes supporting the Cisco Global Technical Assistance Center (TAC).  CARE/Xelus/C3, CACO. Service Sales & Marketing (CIBER).  Outside Services centralized support model implemented with multiple India-based partners. (Wipro, Infosys, Satyam, Zensar) Budget management ($500K quarterly run rate). Contract/Vendor Management. Education BS in Computer Science Duquesne University - Pittsburgh, PA Skills Pmp certification, Pmp, Erp, Sharepoint, Ms project, Software development, Visio, Itil, Oracle, Change management, Life cycle, Software development life cycle, Sdlc, Assurance testing, Quality assurance testing, Jira, Innotas, Sow, Statement of work, Vendor management Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/rodneyrowell Additional Information Skills Summary:    • Project and Program Management  • People Management  • Portfolio and Vendor Management  (Statement of work (SOW) initiation and management)  • Change Management  • Continuous Process Improvement  • Performance Management (Load Testing and Balancing)  • Service Management (ITIL)  • Agile/Scrum/WaterFall Methodologies  • Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  • Quality Assurance Testing  • Office365, Smartsheet, JIRA, Confluence, Workfront, MS Project, Visio, Dropbox, Box, Innotas, Oracle ERP, Sharepoint, TEAMs  • PMP Certification (In progress, 2019)  • Develop Key Performance Indicators & Metrics - Client/Customer Experience