IT Manager/Network Administrator <span class="hl">IT</span> Manager/Network Administrator IT Administration / Management Corpus Christi, TX IT Professional with over 20 years experience. Help desk, troubleshooting, computer/server builds, network cabling. Windows AD, Exchange Administration. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Manager/Network Administrator AIM Directional Services - Dynamic Oilfield Services - Corpus Christi, TX July 2013 to July 2019 Responsible for the daily operations of the network WAN and LAN. Ensuring that the firewalls were operating and that there were no intrusions in to the network. Ensuring that the backups for the servers were completed and that they replicated with no issues. Testing the backups/restores on a weekly basis. Laptop repair as well as the reimaging of laptop and computers. Administration of Office 365 and MS Azure accounts.  Maintaining the firmware on all equipment and patching of all the desktops/laptops and servers.  Install and maintain servers, printers, switches and routers. Backup Storage Manager I AAFES August 2012 to June 2013 Backup Storage Manager I  In charge of ensuring that the daily backups of over 7.8Tb of email across the world we done in a timely manner using deduplication technology. Maintained the fiber connections to the EMC DataDomain and zoning of the fiber switches. Backup and Disaster Recovery Administration VTG April 2012 to August 2012 Backup/Disaster Recovery Administration  Was a contractor to AAFES.  In charge of ensuring that the daily backups of over 7.8Tb of email across the world we done in a timely manner using deduplication technology. Maintained the fiber connections to the EMC DataDomain and zoning of the fiber switches. IT Specialist USDA-OIG June 2004 to March 2012 Installed configured and maintained EMC Clarion and Compellent SAN as well as the Brocade fiber switches. Installed and managed Nokia appliance running Check Point firewall software.  Installed and configured Symantic BackupExec, Syncsort Backup Express and Simpani CommVault backup software and the hardware Adic Scalar and Spectra Logic tape units.  Installed, configured and maintained IBM Blade centers running VMWare 4.1 utilizing 13 hosts running 37 servers.  Installed software Microsoft AD, Exchange, SCCM, SQL as well as Office.  Installed Blackberry software connecting to Groupwise then migrated to Exchange. Security Clearance Secret USDA 2011 to 2011 Senior LAN Analyst Edison Electric Institute September 1999 to June 2004 Installed configured and maintained the Cisco Wireless Aironet network.  Installed configured and maintained Cisco Pix firewall  Installed configured and maintained Veritas BackupExec and Syncsort BackupExpress software and Adic Scalar hardware. Supervisor Microsystems and Network Operations National Association of Securities Dealers March 1994 to May 1999 Tested and determined if software and hardware would work for the corporate environment. If application was accepted, would write install scripts for the different machine configurations.  Lead analyst in charge of the Electronic Document Management project.  Lead analyst in charge of evaluating testing and implementing desktop video conferencing hardware and software.  Provided Tier II and III support to the helpdesk team. US Marine United States Marine Corps May 1982 to December 1988 Education High school or equivalent Skills Brocade (7 years), Compellent (7 years), Emc (9 years), Exchange (7 years), Groupwise (7 years), Disaster Recovery, Network Administration, Vmware, Customer Service, Active Directory, Technical Support, Windows, Networking, Microsoft Office, Windows 7, security, access, Powershell (5 years) Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: CPL