Store Help Desk Specialist Store Help Desk Specialist Store Help Desk Specialist - Big Lots Columbus, OH To utilize my skills, strengths, and knowledge to be a valued asset to your company; while continuing to grow, learn, and to continue to add to my knowledge and skill base. Work Experience Store Help Desk Specialist Big Lots - Westerville, OH January 2017 to Present 43081  1-800-877-1253  • Field incoming calls and emails from stores to provide fast and effective technology support  • Support NCR hardware and POS service  • Create and update incidents in Service Now Ticketing System  • Utilize SCCM, JSS Remote Access for Mobile Devices, and NCR Dashboard services to effectively assist stores with issues.  • Activate and maintain AD accounts, as well as resetting access.  • Troubleshoot issues on IOS devices  • Troubleshoot issues with Windows 7, Windows Server 2012R2, and Windows embedded  • Order replacement equipment, and / or dispatch technician if necessary to resolve store issues Store Technology Service Coordinator Fahrenheit IT / Lbrands - Dublin, OH August 2016 to December 2016 43017  614-799-1850  • Field calls and emails from stores to provide fast, and effective technology support  • Support NCR hardware and POS service  • Support stores with Apple devices  • Support store network equipment  • Utilize SCCM to resolve issues with store servers  • Create and update call interactions and Incidents with HP Service Manager Ticketing System  • Utilize Microsoft Office, Windows 7, HP Service manager, Remote Access Software, Remote Access for Mobile devices, Skype for Business, and Orion by Tradewinds to support store level technology  • Assisted with the rollout and problem resolution of new HR Access software Data Security Analyst Fahrenheit IT / L - Dublin, OH October 2015 to July 2016 43017  614-799-1850  • Monitor server process jobs.  • Interact with both local and off-shore Support.  • Open Support tickets as necessary.  • Communicate effectively both electronically and verbally with all departments.  • Page pertinent parties for support as necessary.  • Utilize Control-M Scheduling Monitor, HP Service Manager, Mainframe Platform, Sitescan, Lenel, Alber Battery Monitoring Tool, and MS Office software.  • Handle Tape Backup Drives.  • Conduct Data Center Security walkthroughs. IT Support Specialist/Asset Management Red Roof Inns Inc - Columbus, OH June 2013 to July 2015 43215  614-744-2638  • Perform desktop support for both corporate employees, as well as all the Inns, Utilize SCCM, create and maintain AD accounts.  • Create Purchase orders for company wide equipment orders.  • Order all computer equipment for entire company, image all computers (both desktop and laptops), and load all necessary software before deployment.  • Process invoices for payment for all equipment and software orders.  • Maintain Inventory and asset assignment accountability to ensure PCI compliance.  • Work with vendor to ensure cost effectiveness without sacrificing quality of equipment.  • Proficient with Windows 8, Windows 8.1, Windows 7, Vista, and XP; Office, Hamachi, LogMeIn Rescue.  • Manage corporate cell phone accounts; including equipment upgrades, and new equipment orders.  • Create and manage all AD Accounts. Product Specialist January 2011 to June 2013 Salesman Micro Center - Hilliard, OH March 2009 to January 2011 43026  614-850-3319  • Negotiate basic terms and conditions for new vendors.  • Source new products for Test Marketing Department.  • Research and purchase new products for the Test Marketing Department.  • Interface with Microsoft Office Daily.  • Proficient in web searching.  • Proficient with Windows 7, Vista, and XP.  • Handle reclassing products in File Maker.  • Interface with PowerTerm ( Island Pacific) program  • Submit Quantity Adjustments as necessary for new products.  • Maintained positive and helpful customer service while on the sales floor. On Site Manager Remedy Staffing - Columbus, OH March 2008 to December 2008 43228  614-527-5860  • Track and record attendance and occurrences.  • Track and record call offs.  • Schedule product moves.  • Input job costing hours.  • Interface with time clocks and make corrections to punches as necessary.  • Various other duties within the scope of the module area; as well as Remedy duties involving tracking hours, and requests for time off.  • Operate both Matrics computer system for Kraft, and CDS and TempWare for Remedy.  • Interface with Novatime time clock system.  • Prepare payroll for processing.  • Reprimand associates as necessary due to attendance issues, or insubordination.  • Handled initial Worker's Compensation paperwork (W.C.C. certification). Education College preparatory Landmark Christian Academy - Chillicothe, OH Skills Windows xp, Remote access, Android, Mobile devices, Ios, Pcs Additional Information Skills  Experienced with the following Operating Systems: Windows XP, Vista, 7, 8, 8.1, and 10  Experienced with the following Mobile Operating Systems: iOS, Android, Windows.  Experienced with HP Service Manager Ticketing Software  Experienced with Service Now Ticketing Software  Experienced with Remote Access Software for both PCs and Mobile devices  Familiar with most mobile devices.  Performed troubleshooting support for all mobile users while at Red Roof Inns, Inc.