REAL ESTATE BROKER REAL ESTATE BROKER REAL ESTATE BROKER - SELF EMPLOYED Cary, NC Work Experience REAL ESTATE BROKER SELF EMPLOYED 2004 to Present Representing various real estate companies in the mountains of NC and the Raleigh area.  Real Estate Sales and Property Management  • Closing document management and file auditing.  • Meeting with prospective tenants and buyers.  • Grew and sustained a portfolio of 100 sales listings by providing knowledge, communication and superior customer service to new, referral and repeat clients.  • Analyze and provide financial guidance to property owners, investors and developers based upon a strategic plan with respect to each property currently owned or for viability of potential purchase.  • Review and interpretation of sales and rental contracts, deeds, surveys, vendor contracts, insurance, building and septic permits and plans, HOA notices, mortgages and property taxes.  • Work closely with owners, tenants/buyers and vendors (Attorneys; local and state government related to taxes, permits, and inspections; construction trades; surveyors; insurance; warranties; mortgage companies; HOA; Accounting; etc.)  • Coordinated vendors for property restoration, including special circumstances such as testing and special removal of hazardous materials.  • Designed and managed marketing materials for office and personal use.  • Trained new associates on the internal as well as external processes of residential sales and leasing.  New Homes Sales  • Managed all aspects of the new homes sales cycle for residential construction companies in North Carolina from the $220's.  • Organized multi-faceted property acquisition process ensuring a diverse team is working together to achieve a successful closing and positive customer experience.  • Monitored competition to ensure pricing and standards reflect market and protect/increase market share.  • Consulted on sales forecasts and projections to achieve desired results and profit margins. PERMIT COORDINATOR Smith Douglas Homes - Apex, NC 2017 to 2018 • Streamlined and managed the permitting process for seven municipalities and thirteen new home communities.  • Work with engineers to ensure plans and energy calculations are up to date and accurate for permit acquisition.  • Resolve issues for reasons such as lost, damaged or changed plans, septic requirements, or site conditions.    PERMIT COORDINATOR .  • Improved and preserve relationships with trades, municipalities, various departments, playing key role in process movement until the certificate of occupancy has been issued.  • Maintain databases, slot schedule and timely starts as well as updating licensing and subcontractor forms required.  • Calculate and approve work orders for permitting costs.  • Trained and mentored assistant. PROPERTY MANAGER Wilson West Agency - Raleigh, NC 2010 to 2015 • Generated, managed, and maintained a portfolio of 350 residential rental properties with total market value of over $52,000,000.  • Minimized client loss after employee departures through communication, empathy and ownership.  • Worked closely with owners, tenants, sellers, buyers and vendors.  • Analyzed and provided guidance to property owners based upon a strategic plan with respect to each property currently owned or with respect to viability of potential purchase.  • Coordinated trades with respect to make readies, repairs, and renovating.  • Resolved disputes, late rents, evictions, zoning violations and security deposit refunds. INTRANET SECURITY ANALYST EDS - Raleigh, NC 2003 to 2004 IT SUPPORT/NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR/FACILITIES MANAGER Pharsight Corporation - Mountain View, CA 1998 to 2002 Cary, NC, East Coast Education Real Estate Broker License Waynesville, NC 2005 Real Estate Agent License Raleigh, NC 2004 BS in Mass Media Communications Western Carolina University - Cullowhee, NC Skills Budget Management (10+ years), Strategic Planning (10+ years), Relationship Management (10+ years), Real Estate (10+ years), Real Estate Contracts (10+ years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Acrobat Professional (8 years), Foxit (3 years), Data Analysis (10+ years)