Desktop Support Engineer Desktop Support Engineer • Desk Support Enginner and IT business relation • Computer system Enginner • IT Support analyst • Technical Support Specialist • Technical consulting • IT Networking Manager Van Nuys, CA ? I completed Bachelor Engineering Degree (B.Sc.I.T.), Computer Engineering and Information Science ( bachelor of business information systems (BBIS) 2004 – 2006.   ? I completed Associate Degree (A.S), Computer science and information technology   ? (Software engineer and hardware Repair tech) 2002 – 2004.  ? I Completed High School GED, Computer hardware software Diploma, 2000 – 2002.    Courses: Independent Coursework:  • Introduction to Computer Information Systems, Introduction to Programming with BASIC Introduction to Programming Using JAVA, Visual BASIC, Introduction to Algorithms with Pascal, Programming in C/C++, COBOL Programming I, Systems Analysis, Database Management, Software Engineering Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Desktop Support Engineer FOX 21 News - Century City, CA January 2017 to Present Provide on-site desktop computer/laptop/tablet hardware and software support  · Provide on-site desktop computer/laptop/tablet imaging and installation services  · Receive and process requests for service via telephone or email.  · Monitor unassigned ticket queue and follow up on tickets   · Document issues and resolutions in ticketing system thoroughly.  · basic and advanced knowledge/troubleshooting skills associated with Windows operating system.  · Mac OS and Windows PC knowledge of troubleshooting, management, configuration, and deployment (Windows 7, Mac OS X 10.7 and higher).  · possess basic and advanced knowledge/troubleshooting skills associated with Microsoft software, email clients, virus detection, active directory, network connectivity issues, etc  · Experience with Enterprise software deployment tools including SMS, SCCM, and JAMF Casper.  · Support of applications (proprietary or otherwise) is desired.  · Excellent verbal skills, with the ability to interact with the customer both face to face and over the telephone.  · Understand the customers’ needs, while responding in a professional and courteous manner.  · Organizational skills and the ability to properly manage workload.  · Demonstrated knowledge of standard networking protocols, computing operating systems, & LAN/WAN topology.  · standard office procedures and/or familiarity with ITIL practices.  · interpret a variety of instructions given in written, oral, diagrammatic, or schedule form.  · carry out multiple assignments concurrently.  · interact effectively at all levels and across diverse cultures.  · effective team member and handle project assignments responsibly.  · adapt to changes in the external environment and organization  · CompTia A+, Microsoft MCSE, and Apple ACMT Certifications Owner Operator \ Free lance Consultant Contractor Short Contracts - Los Angeles, CA 2016 to December 2016 Work from home/  Computer, cellphone, laptop repair Technician Los angeles, ca December 2016 - Recent day    Computer/Mac malfunctions services, Replacing or upgrading hardware Computer systems, laptop , notebook, notepad, PC, Mac (hard drive, Ram, LCD screen, keyboard , speaker, etc.)Repairing hardware all kind for Cellophane's, tablets (I-phone, Samsung, blackberry, Nokia, lg, I- pod mini, tablets, etc.)Replacing a: broken screen glass, digitizer , led .LCD screen, touch button or any buttons, batteries, cables wires , camera , speaker, charger port, main board, etc. Troubleshooting a variety of computer/cellphone issues , Setting up computer security.    Did troubleshooting on network connectivity, desktop configuration, printers connectivity, and network access issues regarding permissions.    IT technicians diagnose computer problems, monitor computer processing systems, install software and perform tests on computer equipment and programs. Technicians may also set up computer equipment, schedule maintenance and teach clients to use programs. Other job duties can include minor repairs and computer parts ordering.    IT technicians need strong knowledge of computers and how they operate, which includes having a broad understanding of hardware and software, operating systems and basic computer programming. Familiarity with electronic equipment, Internet applications and security may also be required. Technicians may also need good communication skills because this position requires frequent interaction with clients. IT Support / Technical Support USC University - Los Angeles, CA July 2016 to September 2016 Responsibilities:  • The Technical Support @ Downside team oversees the technical support of all USC Downside faculty, staff and students.  • Our team has a broad range of technical knowledge and all major OS's and hardware platforms are supported, Computer/Mac malfunctions services.  • Replacing or upgrading hardware Computer systems, laptop, notebook, notepad, PC, Mac (hard drive, Ram, LCD screen, keyboard, speaker, etc.).  • Installations of some of Operating systems like Linux, Sun Solaris, HP-UX, SCO Unix, Apache and Tomcat  • Repairing hardware, printer's scanners, network issues, imaging, ticketing system, server diagnostic.  • Technicians may also set up computer equipment, schedule maintenance and teach clients to use programs.  • Other job duties can include minor repairs and computer parts ordering. and more. Office equipment repair\ service Technician \ Helpdesk support \ IT Technician Glendale school district Los Angeles county February 2016 to May 2016 CA February 2016- May 2016  Office equipment repair\ service Technician \ Helpdesk support \ IT Technician    Responsibilities:  • Computer/Mac malfunctions services, Replacing or upgrading hardware Computer systems, laptop, notebook, notepad, PC, Mac (hard drive, Ram, LCD screen, keyboard, speaker, etc.) Repairing hardware all kind for Cellophane's, tablets (I-phone, Samsung, blackberry, Nokia, lg, I- pod mini, tablets, etc.) Replacing a: broken screen glass, digitizer, led. LCD screen, touch button or any buttons, batteries, cables wires, camera, speaker, charger port, main board, etc.  • Troubleshooting a variety of computer/cellphone issues, Setting up computer security. Did troubleshooting on network connectivity, desktop configuration, printer's connectivity, and network access issues regarding permissions.  • IT technicians diagnose computer problems,  • monitor computer processing systems, install software and perform tests on computer equipment and programs. Technicians may also set up computer equipment, schedule maintenance and teach clients to use programs. Other job duties can include minor repairs and computer parts ordering.  • IT technicians need strong knowledge of computers and how they operate, which includes having a broad understanding of hardware and software, operating systems and basic computer programming.  • Familiarity with electronic equipment, Internet applications and security may also be required.  • Technicians may need good communication skills because this position requires frequent interaction with clients. Help Desk, Encryption Fair Tech / IT tech Ucla University - Santa Monica, CA October 2015 to January 2016 Responsibilities:  • Great people some customer service at entrance , check in / out laptop or external hard drive ( Mac or Windows ) , inventory the new devices , register new users in the system collecting contact info and print out recipes , Encrypt laptops ( Mac or Windows ) with the different methods Bit locker , File Vault, PGP, add administrator user, back up data , install anti-virus , enable fire wall , check for system disc health and system compatibility OS version Macintosh 10.8 or better Windows Vista or better.  • Check TPM level or Matrix for Bit locker, take a screen shot of error or successful process and working with workstation laptop, Active Directory, local network and printer issues troubleshooting Wan / Lan, Tcp / Ip configuration, check for Boot Camp or Dual Boot, PGP, Bit locker, File Vault check out process, and check for a user accessibility to there account after encryption and delete the created admin account.  • Installing Air Watch on (Android, IOS Windows 8 phone, Blackberry 10) tablets or cellphones, Usb flash drive exchange to encrypted secured flash drive (Kingston, Data Traveler, Iron Key, FIPS 140-2 LEVEL 3 COMPLIANT) with the disposal of old one and backing up data on the process using Carbon Copy.  • HIPAA Privacy and Information Security, resolving common Citrix issues of MS Licensing, system Center Configuration Manager related updates and create new reports using SSRS. Desktop support technician \ Technical Support Associate WinXP - Glendale, CA June 2014 to March 2015 Responsibilities:  • Answering and responding to customer calls and mails relating to their technical issues assisting and supporting technical staff recording all calls and questions relating to technical problems in the internal call database.  • Ensuring conformity of the established procedures and guidelines executing technical support functions for client server keeping up to date on latest trends and solutions in technology-related matters providing technical support and assistance in completion of projects in due time providing technical support and assistance in performing applications testing.  • Providing technical support assistance for desktop applications providing technical support to technicians in resolving and troubleshooting technical problems Assist in developing long-term strategies and capacity planning for meeting future desktop hardware needs.  • Conduct research on desktop products in support of PC procurement and development efforts.  • Installing OS: WinXP, Win2k Pro, Win2k Server, Linux.  • Evaluate and recommend products for purchase.  • Write technical specifications for purchase of PCs, desktop hardware and related products. Most Microsoft and OS X Application knowledge, virus/Trojan/malware/ hard disk clean up data transfer, backup and data recovery.  • Monitoring the performance of the systems assisting the seniors with preparation of IT documentation regarding system configurations and technical processes. Valet Parking \ Valet Assistant Bloomingdale - Glendale, CA February 2014 to May 2014 Technical Support Specialist \ Technical consulting Us Wireless - Burbank, CA August 2013 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • Evaluates system potential by testing compatibility of new programs with existing programs.  • Evaluates expansions or enhancements by studying work load and capacity of computer system. Achieves computer system objectives by gathering pertinent data; identifying and evaluating options; recommending a course of action.  • Confirms program objectives and specifications by testing new programs; comparing programs with established standards; making modifications.  • Improves existing programs by reviewing objectives and specifications; evaluating proposed changes; recommending changes; making modifications.  • Evaluates vendor-supplied software by studying user objectives; testing software compatibility with existing hardware and programs. Places software into production by loading software into computer; entering necessary commands.  • Places hardware into production by establishing connections; entering necessary commands.  • Maximizes use of hardware and software by training users; interpreting instructions; answering questions. Maintains system capability by testing computer components. Prepares reference for users by writing operating instructions.  • Maintains historical records by documenting hardware and software changes and revisions. Maintains client confidence and protects operations by keeping information confidential.  • Maintains professional and technical knowledge by attending educational workshops; reviewing professional publications; establishing personal networks; participating in professional societies. Contributes to team effort by accomplishing related results as needed.  • Problem Solving, Presenting Technical Information, Process Improvement, Software Maintenance, Software Testing, Network Design and Implementation, Load Balancing and Availability, Vendor Relationships, Software Performance Tuning, Network Performance Tuning, Database Performance Tuning Front Desk Support \ IT networking Tech ICarry All - Hollywood, CA January 2013 to July 2013 Responsibilities:  • Specialized in Open Systems SAN, Client/Server Enterprise Application Integration, TCP/IP, LAN\Wan implementations, Open System to Mainframe connectivity products.  • Set up and maintained a laboratory to simulate and reproduce customer problems. Contributed to technical documentation, and produced technical memos for released products. Trained System Engineers, Field Engineers and Customers Maintained excellent working relationships with customers, field service, sales and marketing people.  • Well versed in all major Os' and Mainframe operations. Worked with Test equipment such as LAN Sniffers, Logic analyzers, Scopes, OTDR, other optical equipment, and software diagnostic. product knowledge and technical skills to install network components and operating systems.  • Understanding of network standards, such as TCP/IP network, and they must be able to configure networks for fast, secure, reliable operation. Knowledge of network security is important as companies face increasing threats that could disrupt operations or expose them to loss of confidential data.  • Technicians must keep their product knowledge and technical skills up to date so they can take advantage of the latest network technologies.  • First and foremost, a coordinator; his or her job is to ensure that all interactions between administration,  • Employees, customers and outside services run as smoothly as possible.  • The more specific duties of a front desk coordinator vary depending on the employer (i.e., whose desk is being coordinated). In general, this job entails two distinct responsibilities: customer service and correspondence. Messenger Driver \ Delivery \ Package handler All Counties Courier, Inc - Glendale, CA February 2012 to November 2012 Security Guard \ Monitoring room technician Mc-Roberts Protective Agency, Inc - Hollywood, CA February 2010 to November 2011 Security Guard \ Security officer Andrews International - Burbank, CA May 2009 to December 2009 Customer service\Technical Support Circuit City - Glendale, CA May 2008 to March 2009 Responsibilities:  • Deliver service and support to end-users using and operating automated call distribution phone software, via remote connection or over the Internet.  • Interact with customers to provide and process information in response to inquiries, concerns, and requests about products and services.  • Gather customer's information and determine the issue by evaluating and analyzing the symptoms; Diagnose and resolve technical hardware and software issues involving internet connectivity, email clients, IPTV, VOIP and more; Research required information using available resources; Follow standard processes and procedures; Identify and escalate priority issues per Client specifications.  • Redirect problems to appropriate resource; Accurately process and record call transactions using a computer and designated tracking software; Offer alternative solutions where appropriate with the objective of retaining customers' and clients' business.  • Organize ideas and communicate oral messages appropriate to listeners and situations; Follow up and make scheduled call backs to customers where necessary; Stay current with system information, changes and updates Strong customer service experience, the ability to communicate effectively, courteously and professionally Detail oriented, ability to multitask, good organization skills, and excellent sales ability.  • Cash handling, Ability to provide career counseling, coaching, and job seeker services none Immigration to USA - Tehran, IR October 2007 to April 2008 Computer \ laptop \ tablet \ Cellphone Technician Aladdin System Tehran - Tehran, IR March 2005 to September 2007 Responsibilities:  • Computer/Mac malfunctions services, Replacing or upgrading hardware Computer systems, laptop, notebook, notepad, PC, Mac (hard drive, Ram, LCD screen, keyboard, speaker, etc.) Repairing hardware all kind for Cellophane's, tablets (I-phone, Samsung, blackberry, Nokia, lg, I- pod mini, tablets, etc.) Replacing a: broken screen glass, digitizer, led. LCD screen, touch button or any buttons, batteries, cables wires, camera, speaker, charger port, main board, etc.  • Troubleshooting a variety of computer/cellphone issues Setting up computer security.  • Troubleshooting on network connectivity, desktop configuration, printer's connectivity, and network access issues regarding permissions.  • Administer and maintain windows and Linux based office servers  • A cell phone technician should have adequate exposure to RF amplifier development.  • Demonstrate experience with power amplifier modules required for amplifier test and characterization and have good knowledge and experience with soldering equipment used for chip components.  • Proficient in computer skills and have knowledge of operating different types of mobile phones.  • Have good oral and written communication skills so as to deal with customers well and provide high-quality customer service. knowledge of cell phone systems such as GSM, EDGE, CDMA or WDMA. Parts Replacement and repair for all kind of PC, Mac, Tablets and Cellphones, data entry, receipt printing, Account monitoring, online payment PayPal (EBay, Amazon, Etc.) or credit card payments monitoring Strong organizational skills flexible, responsible, able to make decisions and resolve problems, Active Directory.  • Troubleshooting a variety of computer/cellphone issues Setting up computer security measures Technical Support Analyst Tech \ Project manager Reza Computer System Tehran - Tehran, IR January 2004 to February 2005 Responsibilities:  • Ability to develop and deliver presentations. Knowledge of current technological developments/trends in area of expertise.  • Ability to analyze technical proposals and to expand upon them or develop alternatives. Ability to communicate effectively, both orally and in writing.  • Ability to evaluate emerging technologies and identify their potential impact within the existing environment.  • Ability to plan, design, and implement computer systems and applications. Knowledge of federal copyright laws as they pertain to the use of computer software. Ability to analyze complex computer problems and provide solutions.  • Knowledge of a broad range of relevant multi-user computer systems, applications, and/or equipment. Knowledge of, and programming skill in, at least one technologically current scripting language. Fundamental knowledge of basic systems analysis.  • Ability to provide technical guidance and instruction on the use of computer technologies. Ability to investigate and analyze information and draw conclusions.  • Analyzes current and proposed departmental/user hardware and software systems; develops and maintains complex systems for the various constituencies within the unit. Gathers facts and data to be used in evaluating various user proposals.  • Analyzes and solves computer applications and systems problems for students, faculty, and staff; provides a wide range of technical assistance to departmental user support staff. Provides individual and/or group instruction and training to students, faculty, and staff on computer technologies, as appropriate.  • Provides technical support for research and development initiatives and new technologies. Writes command language script, using relevant scripting languages to support university systems. Reviews, evaluates, and recommends solutions for hardware and software acquisitions.    Thank you for your time. Warmest regards, Sincerely  Arin Menasakanian Glendale, CA (818)-287-1520 arinmenachkanian@yahoo.com Education Associate's Computer science and information technology University of Tehran - Tehran, IR January 2004 to December 2006 Bachelorette Engineering Degree (B.Sc.I.T.) in Computer science Tehran university - Tehran January 2004 to December 2006 Skills SECURITY (6 years), CUSTOMER SERVICE (4 years), RECEPTIONIST (4 years), RETAIL SALES (4 years), BLACKBERRY (3 years), MAC, Desktop Support, Comptia, SCCM, Front Desk, Active Directory, Apple, Help Desk, Macintosh, Macintosh, Service Desk, Tech Support Links http://Arin.mn Certifications/Licenses Computer engineering December 2006 to Present Additional Information Skills:  • ·       Desk Support Enginner and IT business relation  ·       Computer system Enginner  ·        IT Support analyst  ·       Technical Support Specialist   ·       Technical consulting   ·        IT Networking Manager     Expertise:  • Arc serve 6.61 , CISCO , IBM/AIX 4.1 , TSO Net view , VTAM, JES2 , CICS , FTP / NDM , SRM , Layer 3 Protocol , MS IIS 4.0 , FTP / NDM , PHP , Citrix ,SCCM, SSRS, Symantec Ghost and backup , Layer 3 Protocol , MS IIS 4.0 Administer , Remedy Notes , Command Post , Netscape , Jes 2 , VPN / Secure ID , MY SQL , Boole & Babbage , DPU / MacAfee , SMS , MS , Rotors \ Servers \ Wi-Fi Connectivity , ICloud \ Online Storage's , Exchange , BMC Patrol A+ experience (ECS) and (EUS) , QA tasks experience , Tier 1 and 2 , Data processing \ Data analysis , MVS / ESA , UNIX / DOS , OS / 290 , TCP / IP , Bit locker , File Vault, PGP, VDI, Virtual machine , Ubuntu , windows remote access, and more  • Troubleshooting, Hardware, Technical Support, Networking, Computer Hardware, Computer Repair, Software Troubleshooting and installing, Virtual Center, Administrator Computer Security Windows firewall, Virus protection, Technical consulting, Expertise at identifying values, developing possible career paths, Security, Laptops, Printers, Blackberry, Testing, Hosting and related services, User activity control Windows Administration.  • Handling over 1,000 calls per week and averaging, 200+ calls daily, Computer systems design developing strategies for entering a career, Excellent Customer Service Strong organization skills, flexible, responsible, able to make decisions and Friendly Good driving skills with map knowledge and clean Driving record (C class), Ability to provide career counseling, coaching Hr. department, and job seeker services.    Preferred Positions and roles:  • Desktop Support, Technical Support Engineer, Front Desk Support, IT networking Technician, Technical Support Associate, Technical Support Analyst, Technical Solutions Support, hardware troubleshooting Data processing, Computer systems design, Hosting related services, Technical consulting Client & Server, Project manager, Senior Product Verification Engineer, Research Analyst, Senior Network Engineer, Business Analyst / Digital Supply Chain.