Job Seeker Edison, NJ • Over 10+ years of Windows Systems experience in several roles- Windows Administrator, Security Analyst, Network Routing & Switching, Help Desk / Desktop Analyst, Application-Production Support, & Release / Deployment Analyst. Supported .Net, Java Applications in Windows & Linux environment.  • Networking skills include- IP Addressing (IPv4, IPv6 Addresses, Subnet Mask, NAT/PAT), Network Protocols (HTTP/HTTPS, TCP/IP, UDP), Routers & Switching concepts include- (Router-Switches configurations, interfaces, protocols), L2/L3 Switches (VLAN's, Trunking), Routers (L3 layer, Routing Table / Protocols, Static/Dynamic Routes, Load balancers), & Security concepts (VPN, Identity Access Management, LDAP, Two/Multi-factor Authentication, SSO, RBAC- Role based Access Control, Firewalls (policies, rules), & ACL's - Standard & Extended)  • Windows Server Administration skills are in - IP Addressing, TCP/IP, Active Directory, FSMO roles, Group Policy, Local Security, Registry, Power Shell, IIS, Domain Controllers, Domains, Forest, Global Catalog, Schema, SCOM, & WSUS. Installed MS Windows Server 2012 & Redhat Linux 7 on physical boxes & in virtual lab environment.  • VMware Virtualization skills are in - VMware ESXi, VMware Vsphere, vCenter, VMFS, vswitches, vmkernel, vmotion in VMware 6.0 environment. Knowledge of Storage include- NAS4Free, SAN provisioning, and protocols (SAN, NAS, & DAS) . Insight in areas of HBA- GBIC, SFP, SAN provisioning, Fiber channel, & iSCSI protocol.  • Good perceptive of IT in - Networking, Systems, Virtualization/Cloud, Security, Programming, Web, & Databases.  • Hands-on experience in Project Management (Agile/SCRUM, Sprints, Deployment / Release Analyst), SDLC (in DIT, SIT, UAT- Testing, Stress, & Production environments), Systems Infrastructure (Data Center, Vendor Relationship Management), and ITIL framework (Incident, Problem, Change, Release, & Availability Management) .. Work Experience IT Training in VMware Virtualization ESX 2016 to 2017 Windows Server Administrator / Linux - Release Analyst Essential Solutions, LLC August 2014 to July 2015 • Installed, configured, and managed Windows Server & Red Hat Enterprise, CentOS on Oracle VM VirtualBox environment. Provided servers support for enterprise hardware, software in development, & Production environments.  • Experience in deploying, configuring, and managing servers. Basic knowledge of Linux Security Hardening.  • Installed patches and packages for servers upgrade. Conducted Kernel patch upgrade for development servers.  • Monitored System performance of Virtual memory, managed swap space, Disk utilization, and CPU utilization.  • Disk configuration & Managing File Systems. Setup quotas, and NFS-share of directories.  • Troubleshoot system performance with utilities such as sar, vmstat, iostat, memstat, etc. in enhancing performance.  • Troubleshoot TCP/IP and Network connectivity issues. Check alert logs, trace files and System files for maintenance.  • System monitoring, boot-up and shutdown procedures. Configured sharing of resources for Linux - remote login through TELNET, FTP. User management, creating and managing user accounts, groups and access levels.  • Familiar with bash shell scripting. Managed system and scheduling processes with cron utility.  • Utilized Active Directory, FSMO, Windows System Center Configuration Manger (SCCM) Tool to configure client settings, run services & software updates, troubleshoot error-logs and client based issues.  • Utilized Windows Server Update Services (WSUS) in deploying & managing updates, hotfixes, service packs, device drivers, and patches released for Microsoft products to computers in a corporate environment.  • Provided support to SDM's / Project & Product Managers for various Telecommunications products & processes.  • Reviewed Server documentation for upgrading IBM Baldelogic machines- P630, P730 servers. Advised customers in regards to server & software upgrade. Troubleshoot alerts, error codes, alarms & worked closely with Developers in providing updates / remediation to customers issues. Jr. Project Manager GlobeTech Computing, LLC September 2013 to December 2013 • Facilitate technical discussions with various teams for on-going projects- Business Analysts, Developers, QA -Testing team, Linux & Middleware Administrators, and Technical Service Providers. Troubleshoot and coordinate across the enterprise to deliver complex J2EE hosting solutions.  • Liaison Application teams, Administrators for hardware upgrade (in Linux & Windows servers), software upgrades. Managed build outs for web-based applications in Websphere hosting environment and deployment.  • Understanding of Front-end Technology includes WCMS basics, Personalization (PZN), Syndication, WebSphere Application Server, Portal Server, LDAP, Edge server, Middleware technology, Java Script, and Oracle Database.  • Project Coordination of software release via Agile of sprints, & stories. Project stories are broken down as Bugs, Defects, Enhancements, Spike, Epic, Story, Child-Story, Tasks for Software Development in various environments.  • Experience and familiarity of Project Management includes - WBS, Project Milestones, Baselines, Triple Constraint, Change Management, Gantt Chart, Stakeholders, Risk Mitigation and Project Life Cycle. Familiar with Agile, SDLC framework, and Sprint Burn-down charts. Knowledge of Jira - in creating filters, setting up Rapid Board and Planning Board as well as Project Estimation time-lines.  • Assist Senior Project Manager with activities related to weekly metrics, status reports, & vendor management. Worked closely with Middleware / Linux DevOps Administrator in achieving delivarable's related to Infrastructure upgrades.  • Experience updating metric related information in MS Project, MS Excel and collaborative project information such as deliverable's, impacts, and concerns about the project. Project Analyst / Deployment Coordinator Seyork, LLC November 2012 to May 2013 • Project Coordination in managing and supporting all aspects of deployments & projects from inception to completion. Design and set-up of interactive dashboard of on-going projects for management, and users within the organization.  • Supported PM's in the development and maintenance of project schedules with a 1000+ tasks, as well as experience with MS Project. Experience working closely with Project Management Office (PMO)  • Monitor milestones and deliverable's to identify issues early and escalate to PM as applicable. Maintain all project specific material within Team's SharePoint site and liase with Project Managers as changes occur.  • Prepares production & status reports; conduct follow-up to ensure all tasks are completed, & received documents pre-deployment. Document & track status meetings, and activities - including follow-up and agreed-upon action items.  • Maintain / Update all project documentation. Manage and monitor upcoming / ongoing deployments. Scheduling and Timeline management. Coordinating and testing survey program changes. Adept at handling multiple projects simultaneously, with tight deadlines. Experience working closely with Project Management Office (PMO)  • Coordinated upcoming / ongoing project reviews & conference calls for Production Deployments. Review and verify releases in Production, Stress, UAT- Testing, SIT, and DIT environments between various teams.  • Review Artifacts (Application, OS, and DB versions), Defects, RFC's, and QC's from various teams prior to Deployment. Coordinate with Off-Shore / On-shore teams regarding new releases, updates, and inform upper Management accordingly. Ensure smooth deployments of new releases and code in all environments.  • Deployment included Java releases related to J2EE codes in Build and Deploy, Tibco, and Databases for subsequent Java jar, war, and ear files in various environments. Review readiness and end-dates for Release Code Deployments. Applied knowledge of scripting languages, website development tools, data metrics, and overall IT processes.  • Understanding of Software Security Fundamentals / Application Security, Architecture Risk Analysis, Risk Based Security Testing in routine tasks such as Bugs, Flaws, Vulnerabilities, and Defects. Overall understanding of Release Management, Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), and Agile Software Development.  • Gather data metrics information from various teams. Create detailed Metrics charts on Daily, Weekly, Monthly & Quarterly basis in terms of planned activities, defect fixes, and upcoming / ongoing Deployments. Upload metrics data information of Systems related to CPU, Memory, Network Utilization, & I/O-Rate for Distributed Systems.  • Troubleshoot Production issues related to various Financial Applications in (Pre-IST / SIT, UAT, Stress, and Prod environments) . Solve Production issues related to web login connectivity, end-user issues, servers / database issues, Deployments / Releases of new functionality, and performance related issues. IT Consultant / Production Support Analyst Arthur Lawrence IT Staffing, LLC August 2012 to October 2012 Windows Server Administrator / Production Support Analyst Tekmark Global Solutions LLC - Samba, Jammu and Kashmir April 2012 to June 2012 • Installed Red Hat Linux 5.7, 6.0 on Servers. Setup Load Balancers, upgraded disk size, memory, latest VMware Tools Status on Virtual Servers in Terremark Enterprise Cloud environment as per excel sheet specifications within Internal and DMZ Firewalls. Upgraded VMware Virtualization environment by installing latest patches, unzipping tar files manually and utilizing VMware Virtualiuzation Vsphere software on both Linux & Windows Systems.  • Installed NFS, mounted & unmounted file-systems, checked drives & partitions for being functional and accessible. Installed Security patches, packages and verified configurations, list of yum repository on Linux servers. Knowledge of NFS, NIS, DNS, Automounter, NTP, RAID, Shell Scripts, Kernel parameters, OSI Layers, & Network Protocols.  • Experience in low-level Linux troubleshooting (netstat, trace, sar, dmesg, ethernal- packets capture, and Wireshark)  • Updated Systems Time via NTP on Linux servers as per timezones. Checked yum repository list and configuration of services running on servers. Hardened server settings for installed packages, user settings, & applications.  • Configured Linux & Windows servers system files via Samba for Active Directory and SSO login connections. Troubleshoot Windows Systems for configuration on - Active Directory, MMC, Domain Controllers, GPO, and IIS.  • Installed Oracle 11G, MySQL Databases, along with Magneto E-commerce DB, MongoDB and Java rpm's. Verified interactions with various API's, Applications, Databases, Cisco Videoscape Media Suite (VMS), Orchestration Layer, and various other Verizon build components. Verified versions of various components of Servers, Databases, Web Servers, Middleware, & Ecommerce Applications.  • Configured correct versions of Java, JCE- jar files, Apache, JBoss, and Jetty configuration files along with implementation and configuration of Cisco's Orchestration Layer (OL) and Cisco Videoscape Media Suite (VMS) . Built Primary and Secondary servers for SSO, Workflow, and Entitlement layers of VMS into persist.properties file. Configured and tested OL for solr.war (solar indexing service) and orch.war files. Tested OL is deployed correctly in staging environment & setup Load Balancers, Firewall rules. Overall understanding of Zoetrophe project Architecture.  • Troubleshoot mobile devices such as Application API's and its connectivity with devices - Android phones, iPhone,  Samsung TV, Xbox for Streaming Video content and resolved issues related to alerts, error messages, login issues, and connectivity related problems. Independent Consultant January 2009 to December 2011 IT Help Desk Administrator The Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond July 2007 to October 2008 • Employed Windows Active Directory and Group Policy Objects (GPO) to grant access to folders, sanction permissions, and to administer access to servers. Utilized Terminal Services to login to servers for maintenance and server reboots. Checked Event Viewer for logs and related Security issues.  • Administration of User Accounts in Active Directory and administration of shared resources (shared folders, files, and printers) . Add, move, change user's account, hard drive's, emails, and migrate users to different domains, locations and servers.  • Participated in Deployment meetings for ongoing System, and Application Changes for the day. Reviewed and acted upon incoming tickets relating to Incident, Problem, & Change Management within ITIL Framework and processes. Approved tickets for Change via Change Management for impacting Systems and Applications.  • Supported production activities and mitigated customer downtime by establishing work-around solutions to any customer incidents and/or problems in Production environment.  • Provide overall primary operational support related to hotfix / patch installation, installation verification, testing and contingency-related activities within Windows environment. Knowledge of VMWare, Active Directory, Windows Clustering, DBMS (MSSQL/Oracle), Web server (HTTP), Control-M Scheduler, and scripting languages.  • Hands-on experience rebooting Distributed Windows and Unix / Linux servers via RILO (Remote Light Out Manager), ALOM, and Cyclades. Experience in monitoring and working on HP Proliant servers along with HP server management products (iLO, Insight Manager)  • Executed console commands, running diagnostics, working closely with hardware vendors, and conducting off-line processes in a Data Center environment. Scheduled Hardware vendors support calls regarding replacement of Data Center Infrastructure such as Server's Memory, NIC card, Hard-drives, Disk drives, HBA, and Power Supply on various UNIX, Linux, and Windows, systems. Data Center support included over 1500+ Unix, Linux, Windows and Mainframe servers.  • Run Development, QA, Contingency/Test, and Production scripts in both Windows and UNIX environment for Disaster Recovery / Contingency Planning Team & impacted Business Redemption Test (BRT / TRT) teams. Also, verify jobs and processes, check impact of scripts ran on Control-M Scheduler, Servers, Clusters, and various Databases.  • Run Veritas Cluster scripts in the Test and Production environment and verify status of VCS after Failover. Recycled JVM, related Java Applications, and Web sphere Application Server (WAS) applications to optimize overall performance to end-users.  • Performed Systems Monitoring and Applications on NMC (Netview Monitoring Console), and verify jobs running on Control-M Scheduler.  • Run tapes to acquire data - records, files and restore backup. Initialize Tapes on TSM (IBM's Tivoli Storage Manager) and check BMC Patrol for statuses of jobs ran on various Logical Partitions - LPAR's. Sr. UNIX Level-II Support Operator TSYS Prepaid, Inc February 2007 to May 2007 Helpdesk Level-II Support Analyst ( Security Access Control /Identity Management Administrator) Kraft Foods, Inc., NY October 2004 to February 2007 • Performed second-level support for all PC users Hardware, Software, and Networking Connectivity related issues. Used Help Desk Software to track and resolve Desktop calls, Manage Hardware, and Software Assets Deployed.  • Work closely with Desktop, Server and Application Teams in all locations. Analyzed problems and symptoms so that underlying causes are identified and resolved.  • Identified and resolved issues in the Ticketing System - Service Center 5.0.3 related to Systems, Applications, Emails, Remote-Access, and Databases.  • Verify Users information in Access Database, Waveset Lighthouse Identity Management System 3.1- Active Directory for Domain users (eSurf), & MS Outlook in creation of user s LAN-IDs. Delegate administrative tasks to normal users.  • Granted User access according to the principles based on Single Sign-On and RBAC (Role Based Access Control) according to their functions and departments. Provisioned LAN-ID's according to the principles of Identity Management System & Security.  • Administration of User Accounts (local and in Active Directory) . Administration of shared resources (shared folders, files, and printers) . Add, move, change user's account, hard drives, emails, and migrate users to different domains, locations and servers. Update Access Database tables with information regarding the Server, Shared Drive, and entries regarding the Data Owners.  • Setup new email user accounts on Exchange Server 5.5 and Blackberry. Mailbox administration on Microsoft Exchange Server 5.5 includes Creating/Deleting/Hiding/Import-Exporting email-boxes adding/removing distribution lists. Customization of MS Outlook folders, forms, & views.  • Create LAN-ID's, grant Citrix Access, and Remote Desktop Access permissions for end-users via Active Directory on MS Windows 2000. Update profile information in Citrix MetaFrame, Remote Desktop, and Terminal Services.  • Administration of Windows 2000 & Windows 2003 Server along with Microsoft IIS. Troubleshot MS Exchange Server, Email setup issues, SMTP and DNS issues.  • Basic knowledge of protocols such as- HTTP, HTTPS, TCP/IP, DHCP, DNS, and WINS. Administration of RAS, DNS, WINS, and DHCP services. Performed Registry / Kernel tweaks in order to correct entries in registry and startup of files and related software.  • Applied and granted NTFS file system permissions to create Share Access Drives for requested files, folders. Installed and granted permissions for requested software from end-users. Installed Applications, Software installs, upgrades, patches, and fixes via SMS (System Management Server) suite for software tools to advertised programs, to MS Sharepoint -Team Sites for the end-users.  • Employ System Management Server (SMS) tools to remotely login to clients Desktop and assist clients with issues related to Upgrades, Software Installations, Verify issues, & checking various problems related to both Laptops and Desktops. SR 10 Kliger-Weiss Info-Systems, Inc August 2003 to January 2004 NY  Desktop-Network Support  • Configured users Desktop Computers and Applications with the Company's standard settings.  • Building Computers for new hires. Managing users on the network and troubleshooting desktop & hardware issues.  • Install and Troubleshoot Windows 2000/Windows XP Professional and migrate users and software to new hardware.  • Install, configure and set up printers. Perform basic email set up and configure load parameters of printer drives.  • Updated Store Registers with patch configurations, SR 10 updates via PC Anywhere 10.5 Remote Access client.  • Support clients & internal users on Desktop/System issues & on VPN, UNIX Networks, PPTP, & IPSEC Firewall issues.  • Reset Passwords, Verify Systems load average, Apply Systems patches, Query and Update entries into the Database, and apply basic TCP/IP networking knowledge.  • Backup System data-files on SAN and on 4mm and 8 mm dat-tapes. UNIX Systems Tier-I Support Analyst / Desktop-Network Support Kliger-Weiss Info-Systems, Inc August 2003 to January 2004 End Client - Warner Music Group / AOL Time - Warner, NY, US August 2002 to October 2002 UNIX Systems / Database Support Jr. UNIX Systems Administrator / Applications-Systems Support Instinet Group Incorporated November 2000 to April 2002 Junior UNIX Administrator / Lead Technical Support TriStarWeb / Interliant Inc February 2000 to October 2000 Spherion / Technisource, Inc September 1999 to February 2000 Network Operations, Network Operations Center Education EDUCATION Nassau Community College - Garden City, NY A.S. in Electrical Engineering College of Engineering and Applied Science Skills SECURITY (5 years), ACTIVE DIRECTORY (4 years), UNIX (4 years), TCP (3 years), TCP/IP (3 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Platforms/OS: Cloud Systems (Oracle VM Virtualbox 5.1.26, VMware Workstation, VMware Player, AWS EC2), MS  Windows Server (2012, 2008/2003/2000 Professional, NT 4.0), MS Windows Desktop (10, 8/7/Vista/XP/98 &  PowerShell / DOS 6.2), Linux (Red Hat 5, 6, 7.0 /CentOS 7.0), UNIX (Sun Solaris 7-10.0, HP-UX 10.20-11.00, SCO UNIX)  Framework: ITIL (Incident, Problem, Change, Release, Application Management), SDLC (Dev, QA, Load Test, Stress Test, Pre-Prod/Lab, Production), SOX, & Agile/SCRUM environment.  Database Systems: SQL, SQL *Plus, PL/SQL, Oracle Database Express Edition, Oracle 9i.10-12, MS SQL server, Unify  Languages: Java / Java 8, Eclipse IDE, HTML, C++, C, Pascal, & Assembly (Intel, MIPS RISC)    Windows Configuration: Installation of- Windows Server 2012, Remote Management, Windows Firewall, Resource Monitor, Server Manager, Active Directory, Standalone Server, Workgroup, Domain, Computer Management, Hard / Soft Quota, AD DS, DHCP, DNS, DNS Manager, IIS, Hyper-V, WSUS, File Manager, Print Server, Backup, & RAS/VPN, SCOM, Configuration Manager- SCCM.  Server Tools: Server Manager, Computer Management, MMC, Disk Management, Registry, Event Viewer, Group Policy, Local Security Policies-Password/Account Policy, WSUS, Active Directory (AD Users & Computers, AD Domains & Trusts, AD Sites & Services), DHCP, DNS, FSMO roles, Global Catalog, Schema, & File Manager, MS Exchange Server 5.5, 2007, Outlook Web Access (OWA), RAS, Slack, Android, iOS devices, & Blackberry Enterprise Server.  Windows Scripting: Power Shell- cmdlet commands (mkdir, edit, runas, path, echo, find, format, fdisk, defrag, hostname, ipconfig, chkdsk, mem, attrib, robocopy, taskkill, tasklist, type, telnet, nslookup, ping, tracert, netstat, net use, xcopy), AD commands (Ntdsutil, Dsmod, Dsadd, Dsrm, Dsquery, Dsacls, gpotool, Adprep, netdom, netsh, dnscmd, netsh, Nltest, Repadmin, Setspn)    Networking: Devices: (L2/L3-Switches, VLANS, VTP, L3-Routers, Routing Table / Protocols, GNS3, Cisco IOS 15), Telnet Client (PuTTY, SSH, Sudo, Tiny TERM Emulator 4.3, Secure CRT 4.0, Computer Management, MS Terminal Server), Remote Access Tools (Citrix, RDC, RAS, VPN, RILO, Cyclades, PC Anywhere 10.5, MS NetMeeting, SMS Remote Tools), & Firewall Technologies (Wireshark, PPTP, IPSEC, & Cisco Pix Firewalls)  Network Concepts: Web (DHCP, DNS, WINS, HTTP/HTTPS, FTP/SFTP), Data (Net BIOS/NetBEUI, IPX/SPX, TCP/IP, UDP), Protocols (IPv4, IPv6, ARP, RARP, ICMP, RIP-v1, v2, OSPF, IGRP, EIGRP, BGP- iBGP/eBGP, CDP, EIGRP, STP, NAR/PAT, Authentication, Standard/Extended ACL's), Email (SSL/TLS, IMAP/POP3, SNMP, SMTP, SPF/DKIM/DMARC, Mime Encryption)  Network Security: Qualys Web Service (for scanning Internal/External IP Addresses), IBM Qradar (SIEM) - to monitor security alerts in real-time), Tripwire, & Firewall rules, Vulnerability Management, Threats, Hash, & Encode/Decode files.  Software: Ticket Systems (BMC Remedy, Service Center 5.0.3, Jira 3.4.3), Email Clients (Lotus Notes 4.5/7.0, MS Outlook, OWA), FTP Clients (File Zilla, Cute FTP, Win Zip), Sitescope, Sun System Identity Manager/ Waveset Lighthouse IMS 3.1 (eSurf), & MS Office 365