Business Systems Analyst / IT Security Operations Compliance Business Systems <span class="hl">Analyst</span> / <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> Operations Compliance IT Risk and Compliance Analyst Portland, OR Accomplished Technology Manager with extensive experience in: ITIL Service Management, Change, Release and Configuration Management, Project Management, Technical Writing, QA Testing and IT Procurement. Additional experience as a Systems Analyst, ISO lead Auditor, Quality Assurance Manager, Editor and Teacher. Ancillary experience with audit (Federal, external, internal), Regulatory Compliance and Risk Management. Eleven years as a Senior Technology Manager for the second largest Trust in North America. ITIL Specialist for the largest Grocery store chain in the US. ITIL IT Change Manager for a major railroad. Led the ISO 9000 certification effort for the largest Credit Card plant in North America. Editor at the best selling magazine in the world. Adjunct Faculty in the California State University System. Highly analytical, metrics driven, strategic and tenacious while focused on creating value and building lasting partnerships.  An adept negotiator and mediator, with a reputation for effecting win-win scenarios and gaining consensus among parties with diverse motivations. Work Experience Business Systems Analyst / IT Security Operations Compliance Daimler Trucks North America - Portland, OR March 2009 to Present Working with the IT Security Operations and compliance Team, Using RSA / Aveksa to perform identity and access management platform reviews, we managed Quarterly Reviews. IT Risk and Compliance Analyst Umpqua Bank February 2017 to June 2018 Working within the IT department provide guidance on appropriate IT operational controls by establishing policies, standards and processes.  Manage the IT Change and Problem management process.  Act as liaison with internal audit teams and external regulators.  Perform IT Risk Assessment and provide IT leadership with a realistic overview of risks and threats from an IT controls perspective.    ESSENTIAL DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES  • Develop, refine, maintain and publish IT policies, standards, process, and governance documents.  • Partner with external regulators or internal IT Audit teams and various IT teams, by coordinating, supporting, and tracking the management responses and resolution of action items that are assigned to IT.  • Administer the attestation process within IT, ensuring policy and standard exceptions are documented as appropriate.  • Perform IT Risk Assessments by analyzing and assessing the current and future threat landscape, as well as providing IT leadership, with a realistic overview of risks and threats from an IT controls perspective.  • Responsible for the IT Change and Problem Management process by ensuring all changes are recorded, linked to a problem or request, tied back to a component, and are risk assessed, categorized, prioritized, planned, documented, and reviewed in a controlled manner. Host Change & Problem Management meetings to facilitate discussions and ensure participants understand changes, components affected, and risks and appropriate root cause is determined for problems.  • Assist as needed in Disaster Recovery governance for the IT organization.  • Prepare effective metrics and management reporting for all components under IT Risk and Compliance.  • Demonstrates compliance with all bank regulations for assigned job function and applies to designated job responsibilities - knowledge may be gained through coursework and on-the-job training. Keeps up to date on regulation changes. Follows all Bank policies and procedures, compliance regulations, and completes all required annual required or job-specific training. May be asked to coach, mentor, or train others and teach coursework as subject matter expert. Actively learns, demonstrates, and fosters the Umpqua corporate culture in all actions and words. Takes personal initiative and is a positive example for others to emulate. Embraces our vision to become "The World's Greatest Bank."    Phoenix Technology Partners, LLC at INCYTE Pharmaceuticals IT Change Analyst INCYTE Pharmaceuticals December 2015 to June 2016 Lead the IT Change Advisory Board (CAB) in vetting and communicating changes, as well as taking the necessary action steps to ensure changes do not disrupt end user services outside of the documented change window. Utilize IT best practices (i.e. ITIL) to establish processes ensuring change activities are performed in a consistent, effective and well controlled manner. Maintain all process documentation to assure proper training of the team (internal and external). Build and maintain relationships between key stakeholders such as Quality, Compliance, Internal Audit, Management and customers to ensure a smooth process when change is employed. Engage in continuous improvement for ITSM practices by monitoring and reporting on process performance activity. Prepare trends, key performance indicators (KPIs), service reviews and action plans. Effectively review the team's process to make sure they are optimized and running according to industry standards. Act as secondary resource to support other ITSM processes such as, Incident and Problem Management. Assist all ITSM disciplines by participating in Relentless Root Cause (RRCA), correlating changes to incidents, leading RRCA events and following up to ensure corrective actions are executed. Ensure change policies and schedules are followed. Work with ITSM tool administrator to ensure CHS leverages the tool to its fullest capabilities for the change process. Cultivate and promote a strong safety culture and follow all safety policies, procedures and regulations. Identify and communicate workplace hazards and correct or seek assistance in correcting unsafe actions or conditions. IT ANALYST, SERVICE MANAGEMENT I-Tek at Informatica October 2015 to November 2015 Responsible for supporting the company's global IT Service Management operations. I was accountable for maintaining robust, effective, and efficient process, solutions, and analytics. Ran the weekly CRB (Change Review Board), and refined Change Management processes in conjunction with the Establishment of the CMDB. Using Remedy Force (and ADDM). Reporting to the Director, IT Service Operations, based in the headquarters office in Redwood City, CA. Accomplishments Revised the Companies Global ITS Change Management Process. Documentation, and communicated the new processes to STAFF, also conducted  Training for staff, and created my own training documentation for that purpose. Skills Use: Technical writing, ITIL ITSM Change Management proficiency. The ability to get Stakeholders to agree on the revised policy from various IT team to the CIO of the company. IT Service Manager (Project Manager) Systemart August 2015 to September 2015 at Clorox    Leading and participating in IT Service management initiatives leveraging ITIL best practices.  Participating in process management meetings, monitoring and auditing IT processes and working with various teams to identify opportunities for improvement. Refining governance and compliance with established Processes. Using Change request samples and PIR's to drive improvements.  Using my experience in IT Service Management to help guide Process Owners, Process Managers, Practitioners, Senior IT Management and Business Stakeholders. ITSM CONSULTANT/Change Management Sme at eBay cPrime March 2015 to June 2015 Work with Project managers on the eBay Pay Pal split. Assist with any gaps to close between current-state/desired-state of documentation (process/policy/procedure/practice owner and user) for Incident, Problem, Change, ADDM. This is in preparation for duplication for two companies. Lead Change Manager -eCommerce Operations at Comcast INNOVATIVE DEVELOPMENT June 2014 to December 2014 Responsible for managing all business change activities and their relationship to technical changes and associated risks. Develop, implement and oversee a best-in-class Change Management Program, and ensure ongoing governance through leadership of the Change Advisory Board (CAB). Partner with Business and Technology to ensure the implementation and maturation of an end-to-end change model that enables the achievement of business goals, while safeguarding operational stability. Ensure all Requests for Change are managed thru ServiceNow and are reviewed and approved by the CAB. Lead efforts to link Problem Management to Changes, and institute retrospective learning's that ensure the organization matures as a result. Support the development and execution of change management activities in partnership with technology teams - including stakeholder engagement, communication, training, and readiness and adoption measurement plans. Availability Manager/ Analyst at Vanguard Liquidhub Consulting September 2013 to June 2014 Providing effective leadership and management during significant outage situations to ensure recovery is achieved as quickly as possible. During incidents, delivering clear and concise notification to all relevant stakeholders of the incident, the strategy used to correct the problem and the expected return to normal operations. Conducting the daily production meeting discussions and Post Incident Reviews related to all production incidents. ITSM Process Consultant/At Zoetis Pangaia Partners May 2013 to August 2013 Lead the design and development of the Zoetis core Service Catalog and all related process workflows and supporting documentation. Responsibilities: Lead the effort to identify Zoetis Service Catalog and those items to be offered via Self-Service and/or Request Process (work will include design through full implementation). In partnership with BT Risk Management and Compliance Office as well as with the ServiceNow Vendor, lead the delivery of the Zoetis CMDB relationship model and data mapping. Work with BT teams (applications and infrastructure) to identify all integration points with related systems, i.e. Identity Management System, Risk Availability Manager/ Analyst at Vanguard Liquidhub Consulting August 2011 to May 2013 Providing effective leadership and management during significant outage situations to ensure recovery is achieved as quickly as possible. During incidents, delivering clear and concise notification to all relevant stakeholders of the incident, the strategy used to correct the problem and the expected return to normal operations. Conducting the daily production meeting discussions and Post Incident Reviews related to all production incidents. Senior Technical Writing/Editorial/Content Management Consultant - Project Management Current Innovative Solutions - Brooklyn, NY May 2010 to May 2012 Provide technical writing & editing, management and support of multiple on-going, interdependent projects, and marketing efforts that support the growth of Current Innovative Solutions. Serve as a key liaison and support resource for the functional areas of the team including: sales, business development, project execution, management, and business & technical process development. ITIL IT Change Manager at CSX Crossan Professional Services January 2011 to July 2011 Lead the ITIL IT Change Management effort. Directed the weekly CAB meeting and monitored all IT Changes at CSX. Assisted with the effort to migrate the Service Desk and ChangeMan to the IBM MAXIMO application. Further incorporating the discovery tool to continue to mature the cCMDB. I was brought in initially to created a GAP analysis review of the CSX IT Change Management Processes with ITIL evaluation and maturity  assessment. After presenting the report, I was asked to stay on and implement my suggestions and observations. Many of these suggestions were incorporated into the Production environment within 90 days. ITIL Service Management Specialist at Delhaize America Pomeroy IT Solutions September 2010 to November 2010 Created the Service Design Packages for core systems. These packages included: complete documentation and VISIO diagrams of all Service Details, complete Service Configuration Models, Services Topology, Service Impact and Owners, Warranty Exclusions, Maintenance Windows Matrix and Responsibilities. After establishing appropriate monitoring, baselines were established and after Service Level Objectives (SLOs) were negotiated between the Service Owner and the appropriate IT Departments supporting the system(s). project management ITIL/ITSM 2000 to 2009 IT environment: 1200+ servers (not including VM servers), 700+ branches, 1200+ ATM's, SANs and other backups & storage and hundreds of back office applications that require support, upgrades and monthly patches. Previously these functions were outsourced, re-established in house in 2000.  ? Designed a Change Management process and application where Change Requests were submitted for review and approval. Including: project management, all acquisitions, patch management & upgrades.  ? Process changes are credited with lowering Change related problem tickets by >30% bank wide.  ? Generated metrics for Changes (monthly report), broken out by Network, Server, Firewall, Applications, SAN/Storage and third party vendors with total numbers, success/failure and comparison to the  previous year's metrics (provided monthly).  ? Established a post mortem process for Changes that generated help desk tickets.  ? Accommodated federal auditors, external auditors and internal audits (OTS, E&Y, PWC), by providing required regulatory materials, documentation and records as requested.  ? Worked closely with IT Security, Risk Management, Disaster Recovery Teams and Engineering to meet  security criteria and Federal regulations (such as SOX).  ? Created and led the weekly Change Advisory Board (CAB) meeting, averaged 1000+ changes a month  ? Migrated from "homegrown" Change system to a more robust ITIL based system. Designed the module (BMC - Service Desk Express), performed QA, created training materials, documentation and gave the training classes for the new application. All CM processes and exceptions were clearly defined and included in the documentation.  ? Established appropriate communications between IT groups, third party vendors and business units so sufficient advanced notice was given for all IT changes.  ? Ported data from "homegrown" Change application, other IT tools (ORION, SMS etc.), and PeopleSoft to BMC Helpdesk application to create a CMDB (Configuration Management Data Base). Senior Technology Manager - OAG Sovereign Bank - Wyomissing, PA 1998 to 2009 Operations and Automations Group) IT Procurement & Asset Management 2000 to 2006 hardware and software) 2000 - 2006  Successfully implemented IT Procurement & Asset Management processes. Previously these functions were outsourced, re-established in house in 2000.    ? Designed IT Procurement & Asset Management process flows.  ? Directed OAG annual spend of 12 to 15 million a year for hardware & software.  ? Successfully re-negotiated contract with Microsoft; new agreement allowed a realized savings of >$300,000.00 the first year and an upgrade for all of our SMS agent licenses at no additional cost.  ? Established a competitive environment for vendors.  ? Created redeployment process for IT equipment resulting in a 20% reduction in inventory.  ? Standardized IT orders (approved server builds, PC builds, network gear), for Project Managers to gather cost estimates for project estimates and continuity of orders.  ? Initiated a certified "secure disposal" of old IT assets that generated more than $30,000.00 a year. Quality Assurance Mgr./Configuration Mgr. on Y2K Project Initial QA 1998 to 2000 Configuration priorities focused on preparing the bank for Y2K.  ? Assisted with developing testing methodology and evaluation criteria for the project.  ? Met quarterly with the OTS representatives to present status updates.  ? Trained to use the Mercury Interactive Testing Suite to develop scripts for testing.  ? Revised and tested the Disaster Recovery Plan within the structure of the overall Business Continuity plan. Quality Specialist DeLaRue Card Systems - Exton, PA 1996 to 1998 The largest supplier of VISA & MasterCard cards in North America Lead Auditor/Technical Writer 1996 to 1998 Primary liaison with the Registrar ,  ? Documented SOP's & Flow charted system processes (in VISIO).  ? Created manuals for newly purchased machinery. Editor/Technical Writer TVGOS 1994 to 1996 Devised appropriate tests to insure software met TV Guide specifications.  ? Documented all editorial procedures and trained the TVGOS Editorial staff. TV Guide/TV Guide TV Guide On Screen - Radnor, PA 1993 to 1996 Adjunct Faculty - English Department Humboldt State University - Arcata, CA 1992 to 1993 Taught freshmen level Reading & Composition. Education Masters of Arts Degree in English Humboldt State University - Arcata, CA 1990 to 1992 Bachelor of Arts degree in English Humboldt State University - Arcata, CA 1985 to 1989 Skills CHANGE MANAGEMENT, CONFIGURATION MANAGEMENT, ITIL, ISO, TECHNOLOGY MANAGEMENT, OPERATIONS, OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT, ORGANIZATIONAL DEVELOPMENT, PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT, STRATEGIC PLANNING, SUPPLY CHAIN, SIX SIGMA, ISO 9000, QUALITY ASSURANCE, IT PROCUREMENT, PROCUREMENT, REGULATORY COMPLIANCE Additional Information Areas of Expertise  ? Change Management ? IT Procurement ? Technical Writing  ? ITIL IT Services Certified ? Supply Chain ? ISO 9000 Certified (IRAC & RAB)  ? Six Sigma - DMAIC Processes ? Configuration Management (CMDB) ? Regulatory Compliance  ? Quality Assurance ? Project Management ? Operations Management  ? Technology Management ? Lead Auditor of Quality Systems ? Web Development  ? Strategic Planning Initiatives ? Organizational Development ? Performance Management  ? Service Management ? Problem Management ? Availability Management