Cyber Security Project Manager Cyber <span class="hl">Security</span> Project Manager Activity Manager, Federal Services - Attain LLC Morgantown, WV Manage all IT activity across Research, SciLAN and PMO Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Cyber Security Project Manager PNC Financial Services September 2018 to Present • Change advisory chair, facilitating CAB's for several domains within information technology.  • Facilitate and manage the Change Management process across the enterprise, developing policy and procedures that align with governance and controls set.  •Mitigate risk to the enterprise, by  •Working with Chief Security Office, Cyber Security, Firewall, Infrastructure and Operations and Enterprise Applications team to ensure process adoption and continual process improvements around Change Management.  • Member of the Community of Practice for Change, Incident, Problem, ITSM, driving process and ensuing disciplines are adhered to and communicated. Process Engineer Matthews International July 2016 to September 2018 • Improved and redesigning ITSM technology globally for core business IT support services.  • Coordinated/collaborated with global business partners to capture/confirm support design requirements. Poised them for ITSM sustainability and growth.  • Organizational and Change Management readiness, adoption and continual process improvement •  • Planned, designed and implement processes and technology. Developed cross functional business and technical disciplines practices. IT Help Desk Analyst Chestnut Ridge Counseling Services Inc May 2016 to July 2016 • User support, assisting users to make effective use of available software and hardware  • System support, configuration of applications, desktops, and specialized medical software packages.  • Windows 10 upgrade team lead, conducted enterprise wide upgrade plane and executed.  • Created positive customer service experience and built strong relationships through effective listening and communication, troubleshooting and timely resolutions.  • Plan, design, implement processes and technology. Service Delivery Manager - Enterprise Applications Plan/Build/Run, Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc August 1994 to May 2015 • Designed, implemented, and maintained ITSM suite globally for core business IT support services. Provided KPI's and metrics for continual process improvement initiatives.  • Coordinated/collaborate with global business partners to capture/confirm support design requirements.  • Provided continued maintenance and development of enhancements, new requirements, bug fixes and patch sets for ITSM and SDLC applications.  • Recommended architectural improvements, design solutions and integration solutions. Application Analyst Plan/Build/Run, Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc August 1994 to May 2015 • Streamlined deployment process by developing carve out template to collect site data, to streamline integrations  • Implemented innovative ITSM system to manage technical support to the business  • Worked closely with clients to establish specifications and system designs.  • Performed regression and system-level testing to verify software quality and function before it was released.  • Identified and suggested new technologies and tools for enhancing product value and increasing team productivity.  • Oversaw major new enhancements to existing software systems.  • Collaborated with product management to design, build and test systems.  • Executed manually and via automated test scripts, Stress-tested server code to validate code changes for quality.  • Evaluated multiple software solutions during early software architecture and system migration planning stage.  • Implemented MKS and TFS for version control and SDLC. Help Desk Manager Plan/Build/Run, Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc August 1994 to May 2015 Computer Specialist, End User Support Plan/Build/Run, Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc August 1994 to May 2015 Education Associate Degree in Microcomputer Applications & Business Management Rowe Business College Bachelors of Science degree in Business Administration Waynesburg College