Systems Support Analyst Systems Support <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Systems Support Analyst - Wells Fargo Asset Management / APEX Systems West Allis, WI Work Experience Systems Support Analyst Wells Fargo Asset Management / APEX Systems - Menomonee Falls, WI June 2018 to Present • Managing the Tech Access Management inbox  • Provisioning new user access in SALESFORCE.com systems.  • Update/maintain user account in SALESFORCE.com systems.  • Create and process request tickets to the new users or group.  • Work and Analyze data in the account discrepancy report.  • Experience with Atlassian / Jira / Confluence, WIKI, IAM & ART request tool systems,  • Work as a contractor through APEX systems. Warranty Systems Support Analyst Johnson Controls Inc. / Experis-Manpower Group May 2016 to October 2016 May 9, 2016 - Oct. 1, 2016 & March 20, 2017 - June 2, 2017; Sept. 2017 - Jan 22, 2018    Warranty Systems Support Analyst  • Worked as an Admin utilizing Salesforce.com in OpenGlobe system.  • Maintained data quality through ongoing data analysis, record de-duplication, and other related tasks, and identify and implement process improvements that contribute to improved data quality  • Updated data; Add/ Deleted data content documents materials in Salesforce.com  • Managed, maintained, and processed warranty assets manually in Supply Chain Management utilizing Oracle E-business suite in NxGen Siebel Service systems, IBS system, and YAS AS-400 and SD Web systems.  • Processed PWP claims international, update warranty claims, processed chargebacks costs, added and updated extended contract warranty, and new assets data entry utilizing YAS - AS400 systems.  • Uploaded and imports files of documents in SharePoint.  • Developed, updated, and maintained, a Quality Web portal site using Web-based authoring and administration interface Day Communiqué (Documentum) and SharePoint.  • Created procedures and documents for the processes and applications  • Collaborated with Service and Systems Operations teams, Engineering Department, IT Department, Customer Service, and Product Technical Support to researched and resolved issues.  • Developed and published and/or distributes standardized reports on a regular basis.  • Assisted on projects as assigned for improved cost of quality and warranty claim administration.  • Worked in the group warranty inbox and managed general inquiries from field personnel regarding system failures or processes.  • Worked as a consultant through Experis-Manpower group. Data Analyst II GE Healthcare / Select Source Int - Wauwatosa, WI November 2014 to March 2016 • Worked as an Analyst utilizing Salesforce.com/iCloud and MyWorkShop (MWS).  • Performed user administration tasks include: access management, permission sets, assigned role assignments, uploads data, data cleanups, and data gathering.  • Maintained and support users, assess user access and visibility settings and restrict/open up data access as needed.  • Maintained data quality through ongoing data analysis, record de-duplication, and other related tasks, and identify and implement process improvements that contribute to improved data quality  • Updated data; Add/ Deleted data content documents materials in Salesforce.com  • Manipulated and analyzed the data business requirements utilizing Salesforce.com and Excel which include performing VLOOKUP's, Pivot Tables, Ablebits, and formulae calculations.  • Developed and implement procedures for the metrics dashboard reports  • Devised and evaluated methods and procedures for collecting data and arrange to obtain existing data.  • Forecast and tracked marketing and sales trends, analyzing collecting data.  • Collected and analyzed data on customer demographics, preferences, needs, and buying habits to identify potential markets and factors affecting product demand.  • Gathered data and analyze their usage and method of marketing and distribution.  • Monitor industry statistics and follow trends in trade literature.  • Created a presentation for a weekly meeting utilizing Microsoft PowerPoint tools.  • Prepared reports of findings, illustrating data graphically and translating complex findings into written text.  • Performing all other duties as requested  • Worked as a consultant through Select Source International. Quality Assurance Analyst Johnson Controls Inc. /ICONMA LLC June 2014 to September 2014 • Developed, updated, and maintained Quality portal site using SharePoint.  • Collaborates with Finance Leadership and Global Business Units to obtain, analyze, present, and manage client monthly Cost of Poor Quality (COPQ) to drive down costs at manufacturing sites globally.  • Managed the receiving, processing, and recording of identified credit memos received by client  • Interfaces with the Controller of Purchasing and the Accounts Payable team to ensure credits are properly booked.  • Verified the appropriate credits are entered into the SD system.  • Interfaces with selected Supplier Warranty systems in order to obtain client recovery.  • Managed and maintained warranty database accuracy, including interfacing with IT, Finance, Claims Processing Group, factories, and other groups who provide data.  • Run reports utilizing SAS; then exported data and trend chart to Excel; also utilized pivot table.  • Analyzed, prepared, and presents data from SAS, SD system, SD Warranty Web, IRIS, Business Objects, NxGen, Lawson, Documentum, eRooms, GCAS, and BOS Applications.  • Prepared and presented detailed financial and operational analyses re-design processes, develop controls and procedures, and measure improvement opportunities. Prepares executive level presentation of analyses and reports on monthly basis to leadership as required.  Worked as a consultant in a 3 months contract for a Johnson Controls Building Efficiency Johnson Controls Inc. /ICONMA LLC - Milwaukee, WI September 2008 to September 2014 contractor Joy Global Co. / Randstad Inc - Milwaukee, WI July 2013 to November 2013 • Worked with Global Quality Department, Engineering Department, and IT Department.  • Worked as a contractor through Superior Design International Inc.    Joy Global Co. / Randstad Inc. - Milwaukee, WI July 2013 - Nov. 15, 2013  Data Analyst  • Analyzed and researched data for errors and duplications utilizing Salesforce.com system.  • Extracted and gathered data from Salesforce.com.  • Performed data cleansing and utilized Excel to performed pivot table & VLOOKUP's for duplication results, and data calculations.  • Utilized SharePoint reporting tools for uploading documents and reports.  • Worked as a consultant for a 4-months project for "360-Underground Mining Equipment". Business Process Analyst Rockwell Automation/ SDI Inc - Milwaukee, WI August 2012 to January 2013 • Managed, maintained, and updated the Data Management in Master data file.  • Developed documents, maintained data and tracks defects and report status using tools as required  • Assisted with resolution of issues and supports implementation.  • Created new potential collaborate projects submitted by the Suppliers and assigned to the appropriate Business Units  • Developed and evaluated metrics that provide data for process management and indicators for future improvement opportunities.  • Exported or Extracted data from SQL server management  • Run queries from SQL server management  • Analyzed reports utilizing EXCEL include: VLOOKUP's, concatenate and Pivot tables  • Utilized SAP - ECC to pull the annualized estimated usage savings  • Provides consultation on the use of re-engineering techniques to improve process performance and product quality.  • Created, developed, and published periodic reports weekly, bi-weekly & monthly and upload reports to SharePoint.  • Created procedures and documented the processes and applications.  • Worked as a consultant with the Engineering and Sourcing team to researched and resolved issues.  • Acted as their Change Productivity Analyst for the Collaborate Projects in Sourcing and Engineering Department. Warranty Analyst Johnson Controls Inc. /ICONMA LLC June 2011 to April 2012 • Managed, maintained, and processed assets manually in Supply Chain Management utilizing Oracle E-business suite - NxGen Siebel Service.  • Processed claims , data entry assets and costs utilizing SD warranty system web interface  • Created new entry order and updated order utilizing MRP system in AS-400  • Created ticket for new requests and resolutions.  • Uploaded and imported files of documents using WebTop and Documentum Reporting Services.  • Created, developed, maintained, managed and edit content of Web portal Quality site using Web-based authoring and administration interface Day Communiqué (Documentum) and WebTop.  • Created and maintained relational database to track business performance  • Analyzed data, run queries, created reports and summarize performance using summary statistical procedures  • Created and published periodic reports and makes necessary recommendations  • Created procedure and document the processes and applications  • Collaborated with Service and Systems Operations teams, Engineering Department, IT Department, Customer Service, and Product Technical Support to researched and resolved issues.  • Developed and published and/or distributes standardized reports on a regular basis.  • Assisted on projects as assigned for improved cost of quality and warranty claim administration.  • Worked in the group inbox and managed general inquiries from field personnel regarding system failures or processes. Responded to the branch inquiries. Analyzed return questionnaires from field surveys and researched system issues and documents findings  • Processed non-standard warranty claim (KDD and PWP) requests and managed their progress through the appropriate approval process. Operations Analyst Johnson Controls Inc. /ICONMA LLC February 2011 to June 2011 • Edited field operations reports, supervised data entry, and maintained integrity of national databases.  • Processed claims, data entry assets and costs utilizing SD warranty system web interface  • Created new entry order and updated order utilizing MRP system in AS-400  • Created ticket for new requests and resolutions.  • Prepared scheduled statistical reports and graphs  • Processed and analyzed returned questionnaires from field surveys  • Furnished custom reports through analysis of residential databases.  • Assisted an Installation investigations as directed by Supervisor  • Responsible for monitoring and reporting of one of the following: gross profit variance, gross margins, installed cost breakdown or revenue forecasts.  • Worked with the warranty system utilizing NxGen Siebel service, UPGNet, and SD warranty system web interface.  • Worked as a consultant through Bartech. SAP Admin ABB Inc. / Randstad Group - New Berlin, WI October 2010 to February 2011 • Worked with Key accounts and Created custom drives orders utilizing Oracle e-Business CRM, ERP, SAP system  • Created and entered sales orders, invoice, repair, RMA and warranty order utilizing PRI - SAP system.  • Worked as a consultant through Randstad group. Project Administrator Johnson Controls Inc. /ICONMA LLC July 2010 to October 2010 • Created and developed project schedules and timelines utilizing Microsoft Project.  • Monitored and maintained Master issues log and resource log.  • Consolidated Project status report utilizing Microsoft Project and Excel  • Updated and maintained team weekly status reports include Project Management, Communications Plan, Asset Management, and Inventory Management.  • Updated and maintained Issue Management, Communication, Project Management, Planning process, and Portfolio.  • Worked and communicate with Program Managers in regards to the updates and inclusion level of milestone plan and resources.  • Managed and tracked new user's setup request for their PC's and emails.  • Processed on-boarding and off-boarding for external resources.  • Attended a 12 weeks sessions training for PMP certification.  • Received a recognition certificate award for completing the ConnectMx project. Security IT Support Johnson Controls Inc. /ICONMA LLC July 2009 to October 2010 • Responsible to ensured employees have the required access to performed their daily responsibilities, and at the same time, adhere to all Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) requirements.  • Ensured Access Security Requests Meet SOX Compliancy Requirements  • Created ticket for new requests and resolutions.  • Logged and Tracked All Security Requests In Incident Management Database  • Provisioned IT Application Access within Service Level Agreement  • Respond to Audit Requests for Evidence of Required Business Approvals  • De-Provisioned Account Access in Timely Manner to Reduce Security Risk  • Provided Technical Support to Field Location Administrators  • Enabled clients and user's account by resetting passwords in SAP, Active Directory, Global Directory, AS-400, AOMS, MAXIMO, Oracle IIi, and GetPaid Business Analyst / Progress Developer Johnson Controls Inc. /ICONMA LLC September 2008 to July 2009 • Managed, maintained, and processed assets manually in Supply Chain Management utilizing Oracle E-business suite.  • Processed claims, data entry assets and costs utilizing SD warranty system web interface  • Created new entry order and updated order utilizing MRP system in AS-400  • Created ticket for new requests and resolutions.  • Create, updated, and maintained Management portal site using an e-business application.  • Upload and import files of documents using WebTop and Documentum Reporting Services.  • Managed and edit content of Web site using Web-based authoring and administration interface Day Communiqué. Data Technician Rockwell Automation Inc. /Volt Group - Milwaukee, WI June 2007 to June 2008 • Supported the implementation of the Global Process Transformation project of converting the current systems (i.e. PASSPORT) to SAP.  • Assisted with the continued implementation of SAP Release 5c and 6.  • Analyzed SAP reports for errors, performed data cleansing such as correcting data in the legacy system on supplier data in the SAP database utilizing Oracle eBusiness suites - CRM, MRP/ERP, and R/3 application systems.  • Responsible for daily set up of new customer id's, order entry, and process changes and updates on existing customer id's in business system.  • Developed documents, maintained data and tracks defects and report status using tools as required  • Assisted with resolution of issues and supports implementation.  • Created new potential collaborate projects submitted by the Suppliers and assigned to the appropriate Business Units  • Reviewed customer id requests and researched the requests for accuracy.  • Used mainframe and Web tools/databases to maintain customer id database.  • Worked as a consultant through Volt Technical Group. Operations Data Analyst Capital Returns - Genco Co - Milwaukee, WI April 2006 to March 2007 • Worked with data system via: creating tables and running queries using Microsoft SQL (TM) server and access.  • Reported and analyzed operations data; created and pulled queries using Access and SQL.  • Ran reports on a daily basis from queries and used Excel spreadsheets to analyzed reports and also used pivot table, chart, and macros.  • Set up and pull data files through Excel and Access.  • Managed and update the Metrics and Dashboard report. Education Bachelor of Science in Technical Project Management ITT Technical Institute Greenfield Associate Degree in Applied Science in e-Commerce Milwaukee Area Technical College of Wisconsin Skills Active Directory, security, access, testing, HTML, Sharepoint, Microsoft Office