Technical Advisor Technical Advisor Information Technology Director Leader Orlando, FL Motivated military veteran and accomplished IT professional experienced in building and transforming technology teams, delivering quality solutions and promoting customer value while increasing business functionality and bottom line results. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Technical Advisor INDEPENDENT ADVISORY GROUPS - Orlando, FL May 2017 to Present Client partner responsible for the analysis, design, scheduling and delivery of solutions with focus on select partners helping them achieve alignment between technology operations and strategic business objectives. Served as a trusted resource to clients identifying solutions to business problems and streamline processes, aiding in the re-development of architecture and organizational structures improving operational framework.  - Influenced change and adoptability by providing advice and expertise on recommendations of technology trends.  - Emphasis of expertise focused on leadership, management and maturity of technical verticals and cross-functionalism. VP of Consulting Services INNOVATIVE SYSTEMS GROUP - Orlando, FL August 2016 to April 2017 Member of Executive Team responsible for transformation of company vision/strategy expanding services suite for broad and diverse client portfolio. Executed duties over company operations and financials refining organizational, people & technical direction through reporting and analytics developing teams of professionals focused on excellence through quality built on an ethical foundation of trust, transparency & communication.  - Stepped up to own #1 account when lead vacated: 6-month revenue increased 20%, supplier-scorecard improved 35%.  - Beat out the vendor competition receiving the best 'Time-to-Fill' score and awarded 'Above Average' rating overall. Managing Senior Consultant INDEPENDENT CONSULTING GROUPS - Orlando, FL September 2015 to August 2016 Represented Top-Level Consulting Firms responsible for providing technical counsel and actionable direction to companies and organizations, domestic and international, challenged with infrastructure scalability opportunities. Advised on focused areas of operational processes drawing upon personal skills/experiences with Project/Program Lead & Service Delivery/Implementation roles.  - Promoted relevant capabilities adept at adding the desired value within services oriented, hybrid-based environments.  - Curated innovative concepts while promoting ideas of newer practices with enterprise-wide infrastructure efforts. Director of Information Technology WALMART, GLOBAL ECOMMERCE - San Francisco Bay Area, CA January 2012 to September 2015 Department Head of enterprise technology directing/enabling a $10B+ hyper-growth eCommerce business. Scaled IT for hyper-growth of 3X users and led through growth encompassing 10 Domestic/Int'l M&A's and 8 new-office builds. Responsible for vision and collaboration of IT strategy, forecasting/ managing tech budget/P&L, program execution/delivery, infrastructure agile operations & people leadership.  - Decreased employee turnover while increasing employee engagement 38% achieving #1 spot in Division.  - Expense reduction of 80% with int'l procurement and led corporate migration from legacy OS with $0 budget impact. Director of eCommerce Operations & Engineering Support WALMART, GLOBAL ECOMMERCE January 2011 to September 2012 Senior leader responsible for global team of 200+ members spanning multiple continents. Through early adoption/use of Agile/Scrum practices, build/instituted a follow-the-sun Eng/Ops/Support model transforming a reactive organization into a lean, efficient proactive development team of professional technologists. Accountable for system reliability/uptime, code change release/deployment & global SRE/DevOps support of differing multi-million dollar eCommerce platforms.  - Reduced deployment time of site enhancements 30% through use of new automation tools and dashboards.  - Developed strategy and roadmaps exceeding SLA adherence to goals while supporting revenue growth of 300%. Senior Manager, Global IT Security & Compliance WALMART, GLOBAL ECOMMERCE - Bentonville, AR February 2007 to January 2011 Oversaw enterprise systems security while advising & executing under direction of Global Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) with direct oversight of policy creation/enforcement of critical compliance audits for SOX, HIPAA & PCI. Technical ownership/system responsibility included Edge/DMZ Architecture, Firewalls, IPS/IDS, AV, Endpoint & Secure Gateway for all offices, stores, clubs, M&A.  - Engineering re-design resulted in a 96% decrease of reported malware also reducing system overhead 35% favorably.  - Received distinctive divisional award and honorable team mention at annual IT Summit for innovative achievements. IT Account Manager HEWLETT PACKARD (HP) / SAIC - Detroit, MI July 2006 to February 2007 Service liaison for a named account, leading a DevOps team of 20+, responsible for systems availability, technical operations, security and driving incident response actions support the mission of the US Defense Logistics Agency. Drove ownership of escalations and accountability of services to internal support team of 50+.  - Instituted SLA scorecards providing compliance/communication of service disciplines within customer organizations.  - Led initiatives with delivery support teams and implemented enterprise improvements favoring ITIL practices. Director of IT UNITED STATES AIR FORCE September 2005 to May 2006 Responsible for $40M Hill AFB IT/Communication infrastructure ( IT Systems, Network, Visual/Navigation Tools, Air Traffic Control & Technical Support) for an installation accountable for worldwide logistics management of the nation's strategic intercontinental ballistic missile fleet. Managed 100+ personnel in 5 technology groups including contract/project ownership valued at $70M.  - Oversaw IT services alongside delivering security solutions for 25K users within 7 Business Units including 46 teams.  - Spearheaded improvements for visiting VIPs increasing user experience; new protocol adopted by other commands. Secure Communications Director UNITED STATES AIR FORCE - Ogden, UT March 2002 to September 2005 Directed operations and support of infrastructure secure communication activities for Air Force Headquarters SECRET Network (SIPRNET) supporting 8,500+ users worldwide. Led 30+ military/civilian in design, operations and maintenance of secure infrastructure valued at $27M.  - Drove key cryptography upgrades and enhancements resulting in award of 'Best in Class' installation rating.  - Selected by General Leadership to lead technical response efforts receiving USAF Command HQ honorable mention. Field Manager Getronics, Jan - Honolulu, HI February 2001 to March 2002 2002 - Mar 2002): Direct hire under USN & USMC to lead a team responsible for engineering and delivering secure, universal access to voice/video/data trunks linking 360,000+ global systems.  - Responsible for all site related technical decisions including guidance, decisions and policies to 15+ staff/subordinates.  - Reviewed, assessed and reported facility findings supporting IT and InfoSec accreditation required for project success. Senior Systems Analyst Getronics, Jan October 2001 to December 2001 Guided 35 personnel responsible for systems integration, network stability, communications and logistics support for one of the world's largest leading department retailers. Scope of responsibility and work spanned multiple pacific locations.  - Provided technical/planning advice on division IT systems for the pacific region; managed budget of over $1M.    - Without error, expedited the re-imaging of 100+ machines for massive Win2K rollout/upgrade, all ahead of schedule. Data/Comm Consultant ARC Staffing February 2001 to June 2001 Solely represented one of the nation's largest IT Services companies by providing on-site analysis and maintenance of IT infrastructure to a world-known leading retailer.  - Developed and maintained contingency support operations by strategically implementing policies governing operations.  - Conducted site surveys to ensure clients had ample space for new install of network equipment saving over $10K. Information Systems Security Officer (ISSO) USN - Wahiaw?, HI September 1996 to September 2000 Guided 40+ personnel in ownership and support of IT/Asset Management for a division of the world's largest communication station; Naval Computer & Telecommunications Area Master Station, Pacific.  - Developed IT based logistics tracking tools for priority repair items resulting in 100% accountability of over $10M.  - Received the Navy and Marine Corps Achievement Medal for "providing meticulous management of the Department's Information Systems Security program resulting in zero violations". Education MBA in Business Administration Webster University 2008 Masters in Information Management Webster University 2004 Bachelors in Computer Information Systems Hawaii Pacific University 2001 Skills Leadership Development (10+ years), Decision Making (10+ years), Problem Resolution (10+ years), Communications (10+ years), Business Management (8 years), Relationship Management (9 years), Customer Service (10+ years), Financial Management (7 years), IT Management (10+ years), It Project Management (8 years), It Service Management (10+ years), IT Governance (4 years), Security (9 years), Employee Engagement (10+ years), Employee Relations (10+ years), Vendor Management (8 years), Vendor Relationships (10+ years), Strategic Planning (8 years), Operational Excellence (8 years), Operations (8 years), Project Management (8 years), Program Management (6 years), Process Improvement (10+ years), Community Outreach (8 years), Agile (7 years), Information Architecture (10+ years), Information Technology (10+ years), Information Security (10+ years) Links http://linkedin.com/in/seanjgill Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Rank: Captain Certifications/Licenses Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) December 2009 to Present Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA) December 2008 to Present Certified information Privacy Professional in Information Technology (CIPP/ IT) December 2010 to Present