Wheel Mechanic Wheel Mechanic Wheel Mechanic - US Army Johnston, RI Work Experience Wheel Mechanic US Army February 2014 to Present Maintained wheeled vehicles, their associated trailers, and material handling equipment for missions.  • Used applicable references in inspecting, servicing, maintaining, repairing, replacing, adjusting, and testing of wheeled vehicles and material handling equipment systems, subsystems, and components. IT Security Analyst US Army December 2013 to Present Install, operate, and perform unit maintenance multi-functional/multi-user information processing systems and peripheral equipment, and auxiliary devices. Perform data control and bulk data storage.  • Transfer data between information processing equipment and systems. Install new software programs.  • Troubleshoot automation equipment and systems to the degree required to isolate system malfunctions. Internship Bank of America - Lincoln, RI January 2013 to August 2013 Planned, developed, and implemented new business. Assisted with processing and supporting securities.  • Demonstrated ability in providing detailed analytical analysis as well as leading in project management. Account Manager Securitas Security Services - Warwick, RI May 2007 to October 2010 Analyzed and innovated plans; created database applications, and reviewed customer services sales.  • Consulted with the customer, assessing the customer's needs, making recommendations, and selling metered mailing equipment and accessories. Continuously maintained and grew territory and accounts. Education B.S. in Computer Information System/ Business Management Rhode Island College A.S. in Computer Information System/ IT Accounting Market Community College of Rhode Island Additional Information Energetic management professional versed in business management, finance, and sales. Emphasizes process improvement to increase profits and customer satisfaction. Creative Marketing Manager with broad-based background in highly competitive and dynamic organizations. Recognized as a decisive leader and excellent team player who is also a flexible and versatile Business Analyst specializing in developing innovative solutions to organizational problems. Possesses advanced knowledge of QTP Testing and HTP with the knowledge acquired through educational journey and experiences acquired through the US Army with a deep technical understanding of IT systems.    • Productivity Improvement Specialist  • Project Development and Lifecycle  • Global and Strategic Sourcing  • Cost Reduction and Containment  • Business Process Improvement  • Complex Problem Solving