Senior Application Security Analyst Senior Application <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> MS, CISSP, PMP, CEH, Security+ Wisconsin Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Application Security Analyst Renaissance Learning, Inc. January 2019 to Present Proven and experienced IT security analyst. IT Project Manager/Consultant New Resources Consulting March 2017 to January 2019 IT project manager and security professional who acceleratrs efficient completion of project goals and objectives. SENIOR DEVELOPER/PROJECT MANAGER ORTHO MOLECULAR PRODUCTS INC - Stevens Point, WI March 2004 to March 2017 PROJECT MANAGER  Received company's 'One Degree Difference Maker' award in 2014 for role in implementation of NAV ERP System, following latest of several highly complex system implementations and upgrades  • Designed and implemented companywide ERP security standards, validates source code security.  • Lead developer on Dynamics NAV ERP system upgrades, utilizing SQL, .NET in addition to NAV C\Side Development.  • Integrates ERP and 3rd party solutions, rapidly identifies the most efficient integration methods.  • Develops interfaces between E-commerce sites and ERP system using Web Services.  • Extremely savvy with system data migrations and analysis.  • Assists with SQL Server administration and SQL performance monitoring and tuning.  • Developed company intranet and custom applications using the .NET platform.  • Trains staff on IT security best practices, custom applications use, web services, and related tools.  • Develops procedures for internal data management to ensure data integrity, security, and loss prevention.  • Develops custom reporting and BI solutions using the .NET platform.  • Aggressively pursues IT related training, knowledge and certification. PROGRAMMER / ANALYST WAUSAU HOMES INC - Wausau, WI 1998 to 2003 Promoted to IT project team during SAP implementation, sought out for web projects  • Served as a key member of an SAP R3 enterprise system implementation.  • Developed custom software applications within the SAP R3 system.  • Developed software applications using logic from existing legacy systems.  • Created and updated scalable SAP databases/bills of materials.  • Trained staff on the use and implementation of new applications and software.  • Troubleshot problems within the SAP R3 system.  • Developed company website using PHP. WEB DEVELOPER / STAFF TECHNICAL SUPPORT UW-STEVENS POINT - Stevens Point, WI 1997 to 1998 Enthusiastic IT professional eager to help office employees with help desk issues while delivering web development results  • Created and maintained custom web pages to staff specifications.  • Assisted the Chancellor with research data management using custom database and writing script software.  • Supported faculty and staff in application use and assisted with program setup and implementation.  • Performed various help desk and network tasks for department. Education Master of Science in Computer Information Network Security DePaul University - Chicago, IL Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems University of Wisconsin - Stevens Point, WI Bachelor of Science in Biology University of Wisconsin - Stevens Point, WI Associates of Arts in Liberal Arts Milwaukee Area Technical College - Milwaukee, WI Skills Change Management, Project Management, ITIL, IT Security, SQL, Sharepoint, .NET, SSRS, Cyber security (10+ years), Microsoft Dynamics (10+ years), Microsoft Azure, Amazon Web Services, Salesforce (8 years), Microsoft Dynamics CRM (8 years), SDLC, PM, PMP, Scrum Master, Waterfall, CISSP Military Service Branch: Army Reserve and Coast Guard Reserve (current) Service Country: United States Rank: Sergeant and Lieutenant Commander (current) Present Currently a Lieutenant Commander in the Coast Guard Reserve, prior service in the Army Reserve Certifications/Licenses Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH) Security+ PMP - Project Management Professional SQL .NET Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) MCITP Vlocity Certified Developer Vlocity Certified Administrator Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) July 2019 to July 2022