IT Security Operations Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> Operations <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Security Operations Analyst -Beaumont health care Taylor, MI 8 Years of direct experience with business operations in both IT and provisioning end user account positions. Proactively working one on one end users and multitude of IT groups.   Six+ years of Oracle and SAP experience. Three + years of stable experience with troubleshooting software applications, Microsoft windows operating systems  3 years + experience of creating and administrating client reports from Active Directory, CISCO servers and EXCEL based spreadsheets for SOX and ISO compliance. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Security Operations Analyst Beaumont Health Care - Dearborn, MI April 2011 to Present Participates in developing standards, procedures and guidelines relative to granting user access to data, files and applications.  Perform Information Systems account provisioning including: creation, deletion, modification for a variety of healthcare related systems.  Managing end-to-end-processes in support of User-ID and access administration within a multitude of applications primarily authenticated out of Active Directory.  Responsible for interacting and communicating with other departments, across all locations, to help ensure the best possible provisioning and deployment experience for the end users (internal employees).  Interfaces with other IS areas in the design to assist with the definition of user access requirements.  Performs consulting function for new account provisioning needs relating to applications and systems to ensure "best practices" for account provisioning are met.  Provides advanced problem resolution abilities in order resolve access issues on a variety of systems and applications.  Participates in on-call rotation to provide 24 x 7 supports to System personnel in matters of access.  Administers the logical security activities by maintaining user accounts and access rules.  Provides and regulates access to computer data files.  Analyze / evaluate / modify / and improve existing methods / processes and/or procedures  Educates users to ensure user awareness and their responsibilities to safeguard their account information.  Assists in creating and maintaining role based end user access  Assisted in launch of software implementation project for EPIC database a new EMR database. Automotive Software A/R Collections Specialist Audatex - Ann Arbor, MI May 2010 to March 2011 Recurring and on-going monitoring of accounts receivable balances and follow-up directly with Customers for amounts owed.  Managing the allowance for doubtful accounts.  Serving as a key point of contact for customers with invoice questions/concerns.  Maintaining and updating customer records in the financial system - primarily Oracle.  Assisting the Controller with AR related accounting tasks/analysis, as required.  Assisting other members of the billing team with billing issues, and software related issues as required. Account Representative Provision Accounts December 2007 to May 2010 and setup permissions for software accounts via Oracle.  Set up contracts submitted from sales teams; evaluates bids and proposals and makes decisions; review and interpret client contracts for accuracy and completeness.  Manage contracts with clients to ensure SOX compliance; analyzes account change requests to existing contracts and approves changes or revisions.  Participate on procurement sourcing teams for the research, bid and contract management of clients and services. Evaluate client performance through review of reports and customer feedback; resolve issues and implement solutions to address negative account performance.  Act as liaison between sales and clients to implement fulfillment of contracts. Facilitate the resolution of disputes with clients to ensure optimal customer satisfaction.  Coordinate the integration of new clients into the procurement system.  Create and review reports showing status of contract activity.  Ensure compliance with SOX. Track all activities related to account activity via Remedy tickets.  Store all departments related, job related tasks, and update documents on Windows SharePoint systems. Technical Support Representative Audatex - AnnArbor October 2007 to December 2007 Assist in helping property/casualty insurers streamline workflow, increase estimating accuracy and speed claims processing.  Provide first line technical support via telephone and email for all Audatex estimating applications and processes.  Document each client contact via REMEDY for historical reporting requirements and for ongoing development of department procedures.  Maintain the standard service for levels, including research of relevant issues and contact with the client until all issues have been resolved.  Installing and troubleshooting software and installing and configuring hardware to the board level required. Strong knowledge of windows operating systems (98, NT, 2000, ME, XP, VISTA), DOS and strong networking troubleshooting and installation. Utilize tools for research issues such as LDAP, EPOP, Microsoft Outlook, IE explorer browser configurations and setup, PTOOL, AS400 database. Operations Analyst Tech Team Global - Southfield, MI November 2006 to October 2007 Maintain broad knowledge of client products and services.  Compile and produce daily team reports in Excel, and assist on operations analyst team.  Monitor agent calls in NICE system for quality training purposes.  Recommend and implement changes to operational processes and practices within the call center environment.  Track and analyze department metrics through windows SharePoint, Cisco, Portico and Clear quest.  Analyze and track various ticketing databases such as; GCC, clear quest, iPortal, Hyperion and Heat per project base  Research best practices to be utilized by project.  Assist SOX auditing team with necessary metrics and iDOC procedures as necessary.  Assist and implement best strategies for effectively forecasting and maintaining Service levels within the call center environment.  Maintain quality issue databases as reported by client through windows SharePoint.  SAP Support Technician - Onsite at TRW Automotive  Level one end user support for internal TRW employees.  Provide professional end-user support via telephone, email, and/or desk side.  Provide restorative or maintenance actions to resolve end-user problems. Responds to end-user problems based on standard procedures per knowledgebase.  Assist with Norton antivirus updates as necessary and assist with SAP support  Maintain client end reporting metrics on Windows SharePoint, of all call center service levels as required by client through Console1.  Troubleshoot end user laptop wireless issues through Odyssey and windows wireless  Responsible for ensuring systems are configured properly through Novell Networking systems and TRW intranet.  Correctly track incidents and calls in REMEDY systems, including but not limited to entering data into the database timely and accurately.  Consistently meet or exceed required performance criteria as required by client. On Star Automotive Technical Support Assistant Convergys's Customer Management - Troy, MI November 2004 to March 2006 Interface with customers to resolving routine problems with products or services.  Clarify customer requirements; probe and confirm understanding of requirements or problems.  Confirm customer understanding of the solution and provide additional customer education as needed.  Communicate with individuals/teams in the program to ensure high quality and timely expedition of customer needs.  Contribute ideas on ways to resolve problems to better serve the customer and/or improve productivity.  Occasionally use decision-support tools to answer questions.  Solve problems that are sometimes unstructured and that may require alliance on conceptual thinking.  Maintain broad knowledge of client products and services.  Compile and produce daily team reports. Education Liberal Arts Henry Ford Community College - Dearborn, MI Skills access, Active Directory, Identity and access (8 years), Information Technology (10+ years), Customer Service (10+ years), Call Center (10+ years), security, Identity Management, SSO Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Skills and Abilities:  Strong attention to detail and compliance with client standards. Customer service background coupled with Buisness Operations and computer IT Experience in a healthcare environment. Reputation as a dedicated, hardworking and knowledgeable individual. Excellent trouble-shooting skills; good problem solving abilities, work well under pressure. I go to the distance to resolve customer concerns/problems; consistently exceed performance reviews. Ability to thrive in a fast faced, often changing automotive industry environment.    Notes and Other Information:  Skills include but not limited to IT and Provisioning background. Strong attention to detail and compliance with client standards. Strong knowledge with the following applications: Oracle, AS400 databases, SAP, Windows office and Share Point systems, Cisco reporting. Healthcare related Software, Siemens, EPIC, Audatex and TRW automotive related software, Novel password reset admin systems (console one), Active Directory, wireless connections on laptops, REMEDY call log software, basic networking skills and understanding, Group Wise, Microsft outlook and web browsers.