SME (Subject Matter Expert) SME (Subject Matter Expert) Meriden, CT Work Experience SME (Subject Matter Expert) Cognizant - The Hartford - Hartford, CT August 2017 to Present Currently assigned to PCI DSS Compliance Project. Developing logging, monitoring and alerting processes, using Log Management Intelligence technology - LogLogic. Creating process documentation to drive the ongoing expansion to Enterprise wide initiatives. CNC Engineer Quality Engineering - Wallingford, CT April 2017 to August 2017 • Aerospace Manufacturing  • Mastercam CNC Programming  • Fixture engineering Managing Partner - Consulting Part time PubDev Media, Inc - Hartford, CT October 2016 to August 2017 Area    PubDev Media is an online publisher development/recruitment, content and social media consultancy firm. Our firm was started by two industry professionals who have built internal publisher networks and branding/content marketing services for several media companies and digital content publishers such as: MarthaStewart.com (Martha's Circle), ThoughtLeadr, Metacafe.com, Ideal Media, Knowlera, Tribalfusion and Guff.com. Level 1 Security Analyst Clearbridge Technologies - Mass Mutual - Springfield, MA June 2016 to September 2016 • Cyber Intelligence Unit  • Security operations  • SIEM Analysis/Packet/ SPAM Analysis in a 24/7 SOC Environment  Intel Processing, Host Remediation  • Manning 24 x 7 Security Operations Center  • Qradar SIEM - Consolidate log events and network flow data from thousands of devices, endpoints and applications distributed throughout a network. Normalize and correlate raw data to identify security offenses from false positives.  • SPLUNK - using SPLUNK to provide insight into machine data generated from security technologies such as network, endpoint, access, malware, vulnerability and identity information. Used SPLUNK to quickly detect and respond to internal and external attacks to simplify threat management while minimizing risk and safeguarding our network and data.  • Archer - Used Archer to accurately ingest events fed from Qradar and other sources to efficiently process and track and provide metrics.  • Anomali Threatstream IT Administrator - CNC Programmer TG Industries - Meriden, CT December 2014 to May 2015 • Manage IT infrastructure in a Manufacturing Environment.  • Develop CNC programs for complex machined components.  • Maintain Cad/Cam systems and G code programs.  • Setup CNC machines for short run production. IT Manager Europe Veeva Systems - Budapest, HU October 2014 to December 2014 • Manage IT Client Support Team  • Mac and PC environment  • Global Support Security Consultant - Information Protection - Threat Management Cognizant - The Hartford - Hartford, CT September 2011 to October 2014 • TIBCO LogLogic Administrator - Administered Log Logic Linux servers, worked closely with customer base to provide required logs and access for Application trouble logs and Security requirements.    • Surveillance - Provided technical assistance to Investigators on cases, cameras, data acquisition, cell phone analysis.    • Investigations and Forensics - Investigated policy violations and request from Human Resources using various tools such as Encase.    • Created detailed documentation on Security process and procedures.    • Developed process for blocked website access approval and filtering of categories using Cisco Ironport.    • Developed process for releasing blocked email attachments safely. Software Packaging and Virtualization Analyst Remote Work June 2009 to September 2011 • Software package creation via Symantec Wise Package Studio  • Software package virtualization via Symantec  • Large scale software deployments via SMS to 40k nodes  • Project support and management  • High level support for Desktop Support  • Checkpoint Pointsec Protector (Admin) USB Media Encryption  • Development of process and workflow  • On call escalation of off hour issues.  • Interact with all levels of The Hartford IT and Business management.  • Software Certification Desktop Support Consultant Financial Division January 2006 to June 2009 • Executive Support for Financial Division  • Trade Floor support - Bloomberg, Blackrock etc.  • Face to face and remote support users country wide in an Insurance/Financial environment.  • Installation, configuration, and maintenance of client software.  • Project management.  • SMS Package deployment and dev.  • Deployment of new technology releases.  • Performing new HP/Compaq PC and Laptop installations, troubleshooting and maintenance.  • Building new PC's and Laptops for Asset Refresh and New Hires using deployment server images.  • Research trouble tickets and find solutions for complex problems.  • Supported Blackberry & various Personal Digital Assistants (PDA's)  • Supported Wireless technologies. Routers, access points and Wireless cards.  • Responded to all SLA escalation. (Service Level Agreement)  • Tracked tickets in Desktop Remedy queue.  • Closed all trouble calls within SLA.  • Avaya telecom systems and CMS Supervisor, Wiring of recorded lines and systems Systems Support Specialist Lead UNILEVER CORP - Trumbull, CT June 2005 to January 2006 • Operations level 2-3 Wintel Server Support, UNIX support in a large Enterprise Data Center. Tivoli Schedule monitoring  • Monitoring of Wintel environment. Hard drive thresholds, failures etc using Compaq Insight manager  • Initiating and acting as liaison for service calls from Vendors HP, IBM, and Sun  • Monitoring backups and Scheduled jobs  • Support helpdesk analysts and Production Support  • Assisted with Change Controls  • Documentation Change Control, Network Communications, Production  • Turnover. Manage Nightshift Ops Support Team reporting to Data Center Manage Computer Systems Integration Robert Half Consulting - New Britain, CT March 2005 to May 2005 Network - Desktop Tech  • Provided onsite desktop and end user support to clients.  • Project Management.  • Provided onsite systems and Wintel server support to clients  • Installation of new printers, scanners and other peripherals in stand-alone and network environments  • Setting up user accounts and controlling system access.  • Troubleshooting connection problems to the Internet for clients using in house service.  • Supervising and providing assistance to network technicians and peers to aid them in their duties.  • Developed strategies and methodologies to improve customer's IT operations.  • Developed security solutions for customers  • Attended pre-sales meetings  • Participated in after-hours emergency support when required    ESPN Sports Television /COM SYS Consulting, Bristol, Connecticut Maintaining and creating item for knowledge base for tech support team ESPN February 2005 to March 2005 users both on campus and remote.  • Taking and resolving calls start to finish, using Remedy software.  • Supporting XP, CITRIX environment of Desktops, laptops and thin clients.  • Supporting Remote access issues via Ace server and SecurID's. Setting up loaner laptops for client pickup. Supporting TREO PDA issues  • Microsoft office, Active directory profiles and trouble shooting of day to day issues. Maintaining and creating item for knowledge base for tech support team Desktop Support Technician MASTERCARD CORP. / TEK SYSTEMS - New York, NY October 2004 to February 2005 • Responsibilities include onsite support for all desktop issues.  • Supporting laptops and desktops running on Windows 2000 and XP platforms.  • Installing and trouble shooting of applications and network connections issues.  • Repairing and or replacing hardware where needed. Assisting users with level 3 issues on applications and OS.  • Reimaging of PC's and laptops.  • Blackberry's. IT and Parts Manager COASTLINE MOTORSPORTS - Old Saybrook, CT March 2004 to September 2004 • Managed Dealership IT environment using Lightspeed Wintel server based software  • Managed parts dept and ordering Systems Support Specialist PFIZER PHARM / I-BASE CONSULTING - Groton, CT March 2001 to March 2004 • Supported the following environments Wintel (NT, Win2000, XP) UNIX and VAX / VMS.  • Responsibilities included monitoring and routine support of these environments including backups/restores and system maintenance.  • Apply diagnostic techniques to identify problems, investigate causes and recommend solutions to correct common failure problems.  • Other responsibilities include providing telephone technical support to clients regarding technical aspects of assigned products.  • Support helpdesk analysts and Production Support. Performed NT, UNIX and VMS file restores and performing data backups of approx 150 terabytes per week of Windows, UNIX and VMS data.  • Rebooting of servers and assisting with patch and update installs  • Writing and updating operating procedures in a FDA regulated environment. Help Desk Analyst Hamilton Sundtrand Support Group COMPUTER SCIENCE CORP - Norwich, CT August 2000 to March 2001 • Provided telephone technical support for Hamilton Sundstrand users, supporting over 150 applications.  • Configured and support Laptops and PCs both software and hardware for remote applications.  • Performed refreshes and upgrades of laptops and PCs for Corp offices. Education Manufacturing Engineering H. C. Wilcox Vocational Technical School 1982 to 1985 Skills SMS (5 years), VIRTUALIZATION (2 years), SECURITY (3 years), PROJECT MANAGEMENT (3 years), EXECUTIVE SUPPORT (3 years), SME Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/zsolt-rolinek Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    • Infrastructure Security / Threat Management  • Remote Work  • Executive Support  • Software Packaging and Virtualization  • Project Management Support  • SMS Software Package Distribution  • Data Center - Support - Operations and Lead  • Manufacturing Engineer, CNC Programmer    LANGUAGE SKILLS    • Hungarian (Europass B2 - C1)    DRIVING LICENCE    Type - Connecticut, USA Class D and Motorcycle (Valid in EU)