Director/Program Manager Director/Program Manager It Director/ Manager/ Program Manager/Engineer Aliso Viejo, CA To be a part of an organization that is result oriented and is motivated to establish itself on the forefront of technology. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Director/Program Manager Cyberspace Technology - Aliso Viejo, CA January 2017 to Present · Incorporated System Development Life Cycle methodology as a Technical Program Manager to establish the Cyberspace Technology Company from inception to production.  · Perform Third Party Auditing of the existing infrastructures.  · Establish and recommend systems and software for clients in order to be compliant with SOX, HIPAA, HITECH, PCI, and PHI mandates.  · Recommend and establish Intrusion Detection Systems (IDS) and Intrusion Prevention Systems (IPS) Cyber Security tools for interested parties.  · Recommend and establish Identity Management Systems for interested clients  · Recommend and establish Data Loss Prevention systems for any clients who need to be protected from cyber threats.  · Disseminates knowledge pertaining to Privilege Access Management for a secure environment to existing clients.  ·Audit and recommend systems for companies who are forward thinking pertaining to Multi-Factor Authentication.  · Perform and recommend Data Insight methodology for companies who are interested to know what type of risk their infrastructures are exposed to.  · Establish continuous support of existing platform on premise or on the cloud operations. Architect - IT Security Architecture / Program Manager Molina Healthcare Inc 2011 to 2017 • Performed as a Technical Program Manager during the Forefront Identity Manager (FIM) implementation.  • Defined the purpose and start of the system, set clear boundaries and project interface, raised the level of risk, defined the impact of the project, closely worked with the business units to understand their needs and formulated their requirements, obtained project approvals, defined the project kick-off and start.  • Implemented and configured VM servers to be utilized for IdM DB management, Synchronization, and Web application.  • Participated in the implementation of Citrix NetScaler Appliance-based WAFs to control traffic requirements that will come in through the devices while application were accessed.  • Configured IdM systems for provisioning and de-provisioning of QNXT roles including incorporating approval process and integration with the enterprise Exchange systems and other pertinent systems.  • Technical lead for the planning, analysis, and support of groups during the implementation of the Identity Management Systems and various phases of Forefront Identity Manager, including training of the new employees.  • Rolled out into production the Identity Management system, an automated process that is currently being utilized throughout the enterprise flawlessly, this critical application is fully functional and is associated with IT Security projects.  • Utilized FireEye, Splunk, and Data Insight for the purpose of Web Application Scanning and penetration testing.  • All completed Projects met HITECH, HIPPA and SOX regulation standards.  • Have utilized Wireshark software for the purpose of OWASP to improve the security of software.  • Operated/ trained the staff including interaction with end-users, DR team, DB team, and IT Security teams  • Created and modified existing XML codes, modification to FIM navigation menus, security matrix setup, Portal Analysis, Synchronization process analysis and many more IT Security aspects.  • High level contact with enterprise Compliance department to execute and incorporate policies within systems  • Close contact with Risk Management and Audit to ensure the standards of IT Security protocols are applied to all Identity Management Systems.  • Data Loss Prevention (DLP) - Responsible for investigating cases related to crucial PHI, PCI, corporate and financial data to prevent data loss on a daily basis.  • Utilized Symantec Cloud for the Two-Factor Authentication.  • Successfully implemented the Data Insight application and prepared it for the Cloud operation.  • Attended Microsoft conferences on Azure Cloud operations and the initial implementation of it took place under my guidance and the project was moving forward successfully.  • Implemented, developed and administrated the Privilege Account Management to control server and workstations privileges and conduct the password rotation policies utilizing the Lieberman software.  • Utilized and administrated the Symantec End Point Protection suite, which consisted of anti-malware, intrusion prevention and firewall features for servers and desktops.  • Utilized and implemented PKI and other encryption software within different applications such as email services and backup systems.  • Familiarity with Workforce Management, including reporting and analytics, Self Service, and Service Intelligence  • Familiarity with NICE Engage Platform and customer experience.  • Familiarity with Telephony, VOIP, and Windows client applications to access voice services on a server.  • Familiarity with Cisco IPC, for corporate phone number and voicemail using Internet connection and remote access to the corporate network, from home, contact center, or traveling on business. Area Director Fast Teks, Inc 2009 to 2016 • Established the Franchise.  • Set responsibilities for the Engineers and Technicians, include overseeing the infrastructure of technical operations, tracking the technology itself as well as the IT team in order to achieve goals, meet quotas, eliminate security risks, increase user satisfaction, and maintaining operations and systems.  • Oversaw the deployment of new systems and services, the creation of IT vendor contracts, the development of policies and initiatives, and other areas related to the IT function.  • Provided training and technical leadership to appropriate personnel regarding equipment operations, standards, and maintenance.  • Promoted the philosophy of Team-Work so that the employees work together when needed to fulfill production objectives.  • Examined technology, resources at hand, and market demands in order to have good knowledge of whether a particular proposed project is practicable, or if when started could be achieved.  • In the course of work, coordinated and directed project plans, making sure that the plans are followed-up in details so as to accomplish the desired objectives.  • Established planning for the installation, operation, maintenance, and repair of facilities and equipment and made sure that the plans are rightfully executed by competent and qualified employees. Sr. Systems Analyst First Financial Credit Union 2006 to 2011 • Led many projects including the planning, analysis, configuration, and implementation of Visa credit card processing. Conversion of the HP3000 to HP9000 UNIX, Configuration and installation of the HP-UX system. Installation, configuration and administration of the UC4 master scheduling server including updates and enhancements.  • Main contact point for the HP-UX financial system which controlled all the ATM machines throughout the entire system.  • The entire Disaster Recovery and Risk Management system was my responsibility including the yearly testing which occurred from secondary data center.  • Daily process handling, programming, end-users problem resolution. Training of the computer operations personnel and corporate staff. UNIX system and SQL servers upgrade and maintenance.  • Complete exposure and hands-on operation of all financial applications including ATM, ACH, Fed-line, draft processing, Visa credit card processing, and NETBACKUP server administration.  • Systems security and disaster recovery. Applied Federal and State security requirements to all systems including regulations E and Z.  • Worked directly with Federal Reserve on the security of the financial systems authorization and authentication including strong encryptions of data in order to prevent any compromise to the client's data. Required for financial institutions, attended many conferences in system security including detail presentations pertaining to all aspects of fraud prevention and data security. IT Security & Computer Science Instructor/ IT Systems Analyst Brooks College, Network Technology 2003 to 2006 • Taught course in security including network and windows security.  • Utilized variety of platforms including Linux, Windows 2K and 2K3 servers with Active Directory integration and, Novell Netware eDirectory services.  • Administer, and support Microsoft SQL server 2003 including installation, configuration, and administering SQL server 2005 Enterprise Edition.  • Hands-on activities are incorporated throughout the textbooks, providing practice in setting up, managing, and troubleshooting network systems in a LAN, MAN, and WAN environment. Data Center Operations Supervisor/Assistant Director L3 Communications 1994 to 2003 • Implemented MPE security and system audit. Responsible for smooth daily operations of Data Center, hands-on computer operations, supervision and management of MRP/ERP systems.  • Responsible for Turbo Image/SQL Data-Base maintenance and integrity on an HP3000/950 and 979KS, responsible for Novell (eDirectory) and Windows (Active Directory) server class and midrange systems configuration including workstations to communicate with the network by using both Microsoft and Novell Client software.  • Installed and Upgraded OSs and other software to assure Y2K compliancy. Installation, configuration, and administering SQL server 2000 Enterprise Edition. Researched, configured and installed wireless technology throughout the company.  • Supervised and assisted all PC technicians. Responsibility included software and hardware licensing and auditing. Implementation of Department of Defense (DOD) security policy on all systems within the data center. Education Master of Science in eCommerce National University - San Diego, CA 2002 to 2004 University of Phoenix - Costa Mesa, CA 2000 to 2002 B.S.S.E. California State University 1980 to 1982 A.S.C.S. Los Angeles Valley College 1980 to 1981 certificate Rancho Santiago College Certification in Multiprogramming Executive Brooks College Skills Data Center, PMP, Program Management, Project Management, Network Administration, exchange, Strategic Planning, Vmware, Customer Service