Security Analyst - Identity Management (IDM) / Compliance Lead <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> - Identity Management (IDM) / Compliance Lead Security Analyst - Identity Management (IDM) / Compliance Lead - General Electric Richmond, VA Dependable and versatile IT Security Analyst with wide range of experience in the Information Technology; gathering risk/compliance requirements, establishing work breakdown activities, project schedules and resource assignments. Have strong organizational skills and detail-oriented with ability to make use of technical knowledge quickly and with customer experience focus. Good interpersonal, written and oral communication skills. Works well as an individual or in a team-oriented environment.as Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Security Analyst - Identity Management (IDM) / Compliance Lead General Electric - Richmond, VA 2011 to Present Assist and support with the development of information security policies; ensures that policies are applied and maintained for all GE Identity Management environment.    • Manage escalations and support all Identity Management Lifecycle processes for all GE  • Ops Lead for support/bug/defect for the SailPoint (IDM) solution  • Focal point for audit processes and support for KPMG, ISO, SOX, and HIPAA  • Develop metric and processes to manage Audit controls and remediation  • Investigate all deficiencies reported  • Process Re-Engineering to Self-service support for customers  • Oversee Identity Management Processes and Procedures handled by 3rd Party Support  • Implement integrated security solutions as Project Management lead  • Supports the development and implementation of an enterprise security awareness  • Report out to Leadership on remediation plans and metrics Information Security Analyst VCU Health Systems - Richmond, VA 2007 to 2011 Assists with the development of information security policies; ensures that policies are applied and maintained for all computer network components including: routers, modem banks, remote access, firewalls, content filtering, web servers, telephone switches, and servers running operating systems; provides reports for the information security program.    • Endpoint Protection Specialist - SA for Encryption and AV solutions.  • Oversee Asset Management Processes and Procedures handled by 3rd Party Vendor  • Implement integrated security solutions as Project Management lead.  • Assists the Information Security Auditor with investigating, documenting, and reporting any actual or potential information security violations, breeches, or inappropriate computer use; works with the Security Emergency Response Team to resolve incidents.  • Windows Server 2003 Active Directory Administrator  • Supports the development and implementation of an enterprise security awareness and virus management program; assists with the development of disaster recovery and business continuity plans.  • Helps establish, review, and maintain information security policies and procedures; participates in ensuring security compliance with agency regulatory requirements. IT Asset Manager /System Analyst GE Financial Assurance - Richmond, VA 2001 to 2007 GE Financial IT Asset Management Initiative - Project manager and functional business analyst, responsible for implementing current Asset Life Cycle processes, responsible for managing day-to-day physical inventory and functionality of the systems comprising 2500 PC's, and monitors, over 200 servers, totaling $2.6 million budget. Managed relationship with outsource Helpdesk and Deskside support and Asset Management team.    Asset Life Cycle Process - Reduced budget by $500,000 1st year and continues to reduce through proper control of asset base.  • Performing data analysis, detailed business research and recommending solutions to management  • Conducts root cause analysis and participating in designing business solutions to fulfill functional business needs.  • Responsible for handling a multitude of project management tasks to ensure accuracy and completeness of project deployment including quality assurance checks.  • Developing project management plans required to implement service model such as project plans, communications plans and assessment procedures.    • Acquisition Process - Cost take-outs of $20,000  • Streamline process to reduce non-value-added steps.  • Implemented redeployment procedures to get idle desktops and laptops back into stock  • Physical Inventory - Increase accuracy of Asset Database from 60% to 95%  • Monthly random audits and Quarterly audits  • Implement Scanning Process on incoming and outgoing equipment,  • De-centralize PC Depot - Reduce Cycle time of installation of new systems from 10 days to 2 days  • Developed process to house local inventory/depot.  • Resources, facility and systems  • End of Lease GB Project - Reduce PC Leasing budget by $450,000 1st year and continues to decease.  • End of Lease equipment return time reduce from 183 days to 10 days. Site Infrastructure Manager GE Financial Assurance - Richmond, VA 1998 to 2001 Site Manager, relationship manager between campus and outsource helpdesk and desktop support vendors. Completed collecting department's requirements; monitor service levels metrics; assign resources/vendor assignments.  • Approved HW/SW purchases and approved variances.  • Served as escalation point for Outsource vendor service delivery issues.  • Resolved site security issues and gave local security approval where necessary.  • Served as liaison between Outsource vendor and local groups, such as telecom and applications.  • Kept GEFA program management informed on related site issues.  • Shared best practices Logistical Support Specialist - Telcom / Asset Management The Harvest Life/GE Capital - Orlando, FL 1996 to 1998 GE Capital New Telecom PBX system - Business analyst, responsible for gathering department's requirements, Call Center Vector designs, lead other project tasks, project schedules, and resource/vendor assignments.  • Trained associates/Managers on the features and function of the voice terminals and Call Management System (CMS).  • Certified G3 Administration Definity ECS. Certified in G3 Vector Design w/Expert Agent Selection.  • Octel Voice Mail System Administrator Certification.  • Designed Call Flows Vectors/ACD groups for the Call Centers.  • Worked as a team with various Bell vendors  • Coordinator/Support for Audio/Video Conferences (PictureTel).  • Assisted with implementation of a Voice Response Unit. Help Desk Analyst Harvest Life/GE Capital - Orlando, FL 1994 to 1996 • Provided phone support (ACD agent) across GE technology platforms (Win95, AWD, etc.)  • Security administration (TSO, AWD, etc.)  • Interacted with engineers and network personnel to install switch for new telecom system.  • Trained/assist users on the MS Office products and various other software packages.  • Liaison for telecommunication (pagers and PBX). Coordinated upgrades, moves and changes. Customer Service Representative Lead Conner/Maynard Electronics - Lake Mary, FL 1992 to 1994 • Managed 15 Customer Service Representatives with daily duties, scheduling, and systems.  • Generated weekly ACD reports on status of calls and number of Return Authorizations numbers.  • Troubleshot problems set up returns, sales orders and giveaways, and assisted in expediting orders.  • Maintained product manual and procedure manual. Trained new Customer Service Representatives. Sales Promotion Coordinator American Pioneer Life - Orlando, FL 1989 to 1992 • 2-18 Life, Health and Annuity License Florida - Insurance Agent  • System support for outside agents and Marketing Department.  • Reorganized computer system data files to help make systems user friendly.  • Designed and place advertisements in insurance publications, i.e., Life Insurance Selling.  • Responsible for editing, layout and the photography of information to publish the monthly Magazine.  • Coordinated all printing projects and mailings on a timely basis as liaison from the Marketing Department. Education Some college Skills AUDIT (7 years), HIPAA (7 years), IDENTITY MANAGEMENT (7 years), ISO (7 years), SARBANES OXLEY (7 years), Compliance, PCI, SOX, Powerpoint, Sales, Microsoft Office, Typing, MS Office, Data Analysis, Management, Business Development Additional Information SKILLS AND TRAINING  • Identity Management - Sailpoint  • Audit - KPMG, ISO, SOX (Sarbanes-Oxley), and HIPAA  • Encryption - Credant  • AV Software - McAfee  • SQL Developer