Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Chief Information <span class="hl">Security</span> Officer (CISO) Chief Information Security Officer Paramus, NJ Work Experience Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Woori America Bank - New York, NY May 2019 to Present • Develop and promote Information Security Policy  • Responsible for providing full aspects of Information Security Framework  • FDIC FFIEC / NYSDFS nycrr 500 regulatory compliance  • Direct report to the Board of Directors  • Ensure the Implementation, Enhancement, Enforcement and Monitoring of the Information Security Program.  • Information Security Systems: FortiSIEM, KACE, Digital Guardia DLP, LiveAction, Cisco ASA, Cisco Umbrella, Qualys, McAfee Acting CISO Woori America Bank - New York, NY January 2019 to April 2019 • Develop and promote Information Security Policy  • Responsible for providing full aspects of Information Security Framework  • FDIC FFIEC regulatory compliance  • Direct report to the Board of Directors  • Ensure the Implementation, Enhancement, Enforcement and Monitoring of the Information Security Program.  • Information Security Systems: FortiSIEM, KACE, Digital Guardia DLP, LiveAction, Cisco ASA, Cisco Umbrella, Qualys, McAfee Deputy CIO Department of Financial Services - New York, NY December 2016 to July 2018 ? Develop IT short and long-term plans in order to determine budgetary needs.  ? Supervise IT operations to deliver excellence in end-user services in full aspect of Information Technology Services including SW/HW maintenance, upkeep of servers and Local Area Network  ? Oversee the Department IT projects  ? As an Information Security Officer (ISO), ensure the implementation, enhancement, monitoring and enforcement of the information security policies and standards.  ? Responsible for providing directions and leadership to the Department in Information Security by developing IT Security Policies and Standards.  ? Define the Department IT security standards based on NYS Cyber Security Policy Guideline. Using GAP Analysis, generate reports to rate the current standing. Determine actions to be taken to meet the standards, distribute the action items to the Business Units and the IT.  ? Organized and managed Security Teams including Network Monitoring and Incident Handling. Built standard processes and awareness programs to ensure that appropriate safeguards were implemented.  ? Host periodic " IT Client Services" meetings with all functional unit representatives in the Department to create new projects and to provide IT support. Director Information Technology Operation September 2014 to November 2016 ? Develop IT short and long-term plans in order to determine budgetary needs.  ? Supervise IT operations to deliver excellence in end-user services in full aspect of Information Technology Services including SW/HW maintenance, upkeep of servers and Local Area Network  ? Oversee the Department IT projects  ? As an Information Security Officer (ISO), ensure the implementation, enhancement, monitoring and enforcement of the information security policies and standards.  ? Responsible for providing directions and leadership to the Department in Information Security by developing IT Security Policies and Standards.  ? Define the Department IT security standards based on NYS Cyber Security Policy Guideline. Using GAP Analysis, generate reports to rate the current standing. Determine actions to be taken to meet the standards, distribute the action items to the Business Units and the IT.  ? Organized and managed Security Teams including Network Monitoring and Incident Handling. Built standard processes and awareness programs to ensure that appropriate safeguards were implemented.  ? Host periodic " IT Client Services" meetings with all functional unit representatives in the Department to create new projects and to provide IT support. Information Security Officer, Supervising Information Technology New York State Department of Financial Services - New York, NY October 2011 to August 2014 Develop IT short and long-term plans in order to determine budgetary needs. Plan, prepare and execute IT budget.  ? Coordinate and supervise IT staff, data resources, software and hardware in-line with the objectives of the Department - i.e. Banking and Insurance Regulatory Agency  ? Supervise IT day-to-day operations with 90+ staff and consultants to deliver excellence in end-user services in full aspect of IT Services including SW/HW maintenance, upkeep of servers and Local Area Network  ? Oversee the Department IT projects that involve the migration of the data repository system from DB2 based applications to newly implemented App-Base Applications.  ? Determine the Department IT needs by performing feasibility studies. Recommend the quantity of hardware components and software licenses to be purchased, and coordinate the distribution of such resources. Chief of IT, Chief of Data Processing Services, Information Security Officer Banking Department - New York, NY April 1998 to September 2011 New York, NY - merged to Department of Financial Services  Chief of IT, Chief of Data Processing Services, Information Security Officer 04/1998 to 09/2011  ? Develop IT short and long-term plans in order to determine budgetary needs.  ? Supervise IT operations to deliver excellence in end-user services in full aspect of Information Technology Services including SW/HW maintenance, upkeep of servers and Local Area Network  ? Oversee the Department IT projects  ? As an Information Security Officer (ISO), ensure the implementation, enhancement, monitoring and enforcement of the information security policies and standards.  ? Responsible for providing directions and leadership to the Department in Information Security by developing IT Security Policies and Standards.  ? Define the Department IT security standards based on NYS Cyber Security Policy Guideline. Using GAP Analysis, generate reports to rate the current standing. Determine actions to be taken to meet the standards, distribute the action items to the Business Units and the IT.  ? Organized and managed Security Teams including Network Monitoring and Incident Handling. Built standard processes and awareness programs to ensure that appropriate safeguards were implemented.  ? Host periodic " IT Client Services" meetings with all functional unit representatives in the Department to create new projects and to provide IT support. Manager Member Services Visa International - Seoul, KR June 1996 to March 1998 Prepared and executed Visa strategic plan on Secure Internet Payment Transaction (SIPT).  ? Conducted a comprehensive study of the electronic payment initiatives undertaken by the major E-commerce leaders and Visa partners in Asia.  ? Established and maintained key contracts for SIPT pilot partners such as IBM, Microsoft, Visa Head Quarter and major banks in Asia.  ? Provided hands-on advice to the SIPT software developers, system engineers, and IT engineers of SIPT pilot partners for successful payment card transactions via Internet.  ? Developed project plans, schedules, and budge for Visa SIPT project. Analyzed process flows. Recommended changes resulting in cost savings.  ? Carried out Secure Payment Card Internet Transaction presentations in Electronic Banking and/or Internet related seminars and conferences.  ? Prepared project report for the top management. MIS Manager Connell Foley & Geiser - Roseland, NJ January 1993 to May 1996 Designed, procured, installed and supported computer network application system including Windows NT, Novell Netware, HP-UX and communication servers.  ? Managed upgrading the main application system including document management, financial system, client database system, and billing system.  ? Monitored and troubleshot network issues.  ? Trained and managed IT staff.  IBS Information Systems, New York, NY Programmer Analyst International Banking Systems June 1990 to December 1992 Electronic Engineer Armament Research, Development and Engineering Center - Parsippany, NJ October 1989 to May 1990 Education Certified Information Systems Security Professional ISC February 2010 Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering New York University Tandon Certifications/Licenses Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) February 2010 to February 2022