Security Officer <span class="hl">Security</span> Officer Sr. Systems Services & Production Support Analyst / Batch Operations / Desktop Support Fort Worth, TX A Sr. Systems Services & Support Analyst, with several years’ experience in life insurance, financial/investment services, retail, and railroad IT outsourcing industries, with the last 16.5 years being at Fidelity. At Fidelity, I had been working in production support, using BMC Control-m -Workload Automation. Production consisted of both mainframe and distributed jobs, in a tight SLA driven environment. Looking for a new opportunity in production/app support, batch scheduling, mainframe ops, helpdesk, or even something new. Work Experience Security Officer SECURE SYSTEMS/MorningStar Partners - Fort Worth, TX March 2018 to July 2019 • Operate and monitor Avigilon camera system  • Updating/reformatting documentation, using Excel, Word, and Sharepoint  • Use OnGuard 7.4 security system, for alarm and cardholder management  • Responsible for any IT security hardware/software related issues Sr. Systems Services & Support Analyst (Production Support) FIDELITY INVESTMENTS - Westlake, TX December 2000 to June 2017 • Responsible for analysis, escalation, and resolution of batch failures, both distributed & mainframe  • Monitor and proactively analyze critical milestones in batch flow, to ensure that all SLAs are met  • Document processes and procedures, to prevent process gaps, and improve work flow  • Responsible for training/mentoring/managing new talent, on all day to day, and critical processes  • Assign tasks to team members for support of new releases, installs, DR's, and any other batch activities  • In charge of Batch Tech Window activities, and any other critical processes for Friday & Saturday nights.  • Create viewpoints in workload automation, for better monitoring of all critical work flows  • Collaborate with business partners, to better improve their critical processes, and batch escalation  • Do ad-hoc batch scheduling and service request, via Service Manager, and Service Now  • Support Disaster Recovery/installs/new releases/backouts, by way of Service Now and Endevor.  • Incident/Change/Service Request/ problem management - via Service Manager & Service Now  • Initiate Incident Management process on all critical path job failures and delays Senior Technical Analyst BURLINGTON NORTHERN SANTA FE - Fort Worth, TX April 1998 to December 2000 • Responsible for shutdown and start up of all test and production systems, and manage any problems or exceptions associated with shutdown or start up.  • Monitor batch-job processing and submit jobs through CA7. Responsible for monitoring all production jobs to a good EOJ, and contacting support for any abends.  • Escalate and communicate high-severity problems to second level support by using problem-management tools such as Expert Advisor and Alpha Page, or Tivoli.  • Operate and monitor a multi-system IBM parallel sysplex configuration. Contractor for Levi as a Master Terminal Operator Arcus Staffing - Westlake, TX June 1999 to July 1999 Operate & monitor mainframe sysplex & batch processing, using Omegamon, CA7, and master console. Contractor for MERVYN’S as an Operations Analyst ARCUS STAFFING - Plano, TX February 1999 to June 1999 Operate & monitor mainframe sysplex & batch processing, using Omegamon, CA7, and master console. Contractor for BNSF COMSYS - Dallas, TX August 1997 to March 1998 Contract job title and responsibilities same as above for BNSF. IT Manager, Guam Support Center ARMY AIR FORCE EXCHANGE SERVICE - Dallas, TX June 1992 to August 1997 • Maintain all computer equipment for AAFES, and maintain hardware inventory through OLEMS.  • Responsible for keeping seventeen facilities online and running.  • PC-support and small LAN Systems support.  • Local Security Officer (TSO logon access).  • EMC2 Administrator (Email access).  • RPOS III Support.    Mainframe Computer Operator - Responsible for Master Console Operations. Senior Mainframe computer Operator THE EQUITABLE - Fort Worth, TX June 1987 to June 1992 • Responsible for operating and monitoring a four domain processor on an Amdahl 5995.  • Assist in researching problems to reinstate system back to normal processing.  • Update all procedures vital to the operations area.  • Initiate proper training for all junior operators.  • Assisted in migration back to New Jersey.  Computer Operator - Responsible for working with senior operator in monitoring all systems.  Computer Operator Associate - Respond to computer request for tape mounts.  Distribution Center Tech - Responsible for printing/inserting/distribution of payroll/pension checks, and reports. Security Police UNITED STATES AIR FORCE - Fort Worth, TX May 1983 to May 1987 Security Police - Provided adequate security for Nuclear Weapons Systems, facilities and related aircraft. Education Associates in PC Support Tarrant County College - Fort Worth, TX 1999 to May 2001 Associates in Business TARRANT COUNTY COLLEGE - Fort Worth, TX May 1998 to May 2000 SECURITY POLICE ACADEMY - San Antonio, TX August 1983 Skills Excel, Microsoft Office, Word Military Service Branch: Air Force Service Country: United States Rank: Sr. Airman May 1983 to May 1987 Security Police Certifications/Licenses Non commissioned Security Officer June 2018 to June 2020