Program Manager Program Manager Program Manager / Sr. IT Project Manager - MCKESSON SPECIALTY PHARMACY Mesa, AZ Self-directed technical management professional with 30+ years experience in the software industry. An entrepreneurial background with strengths in business and project development, design-build process management, client relations, P&L management and team leadership. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Program Manager MCKESSON SPECIALTY PHARMACY - Scottsdale, AZ May 2017 to Present • Led a team of six Sr. Project Managers responsible for implementing FDA mandated Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategies (REMS) projects for pharmaceutical clients with very strict timelines.  • Operated as a point of escalation and communication between executive leadership, technology leaders, operational leaders, and the Project Management Office.  • Improved communication and processes between IT and client management teams.   • Managed implementations of client web portal, contact centers, integrations, and other applications for pharmaceutical customers.  • Recruited and staffed multiple project management positions on the team.  • Methodologies applied in the project management efforts include Agile and Waterfall.  • Development and continual refinement of departmental and project management processes. Sr. IT Project Manager / Program Business Analyst AETNA / COVENTRY HEALTH CARE - Scottsdale, AZ 2008 to 2017 • Managed several projects, including Salesforce.com based implementations, using Agile-Scrum and Agile-SAFE methodologies.  • Team leader on multiple projects across health care disciplines, including Medicare and commercial member enrollment, pharmacy operations, claim processing, and provider management.  • Project objectives included application integration, third party system integration, new tool development, reporting, and product enhancement.  • Worked directly with customers at all levels within the organization, IT staff, and outside parties to provide operational business requirements and solution proposals in the health care domain. Computer Networking and Security Instructor ANTHEM COLLEGE - Phoenix, AZ 2006 to 2008 Taught the following classes: A+ Certification Hardware, A+ Certification Software, Computer Forensics, Net+ Computer Network Certification, and Linux+ Certification. Owner/Manager MAID BRIGADE - Mesa, AZ 2004 to 2008 • Built the business from ground up and grew annual gross revenues year over year.  • Led a team of employees, managed and directed all aspects of day-to-day operations.  • Developed marketing and customer management practices. Customer Support Manager/Global Support Manager/ Maintenance Renewal Manager TIBCO SOFTWARE INCORPORATED - Palo Alto, CA 1997 to 2003 • Directed the evolution of technical and non-technical solutions from concept through implementation, constantly managed the needs of the customer, the team, and the projects.  • Managed third-party, international support teams (up to 60 employees) and ensured teams abided by the company's support policies by monitoring the quality and timeliness of their responses to TIBCO customers.  • Negotiated several partnership agreements.  • Supervised $18 million software maintenance renewal program, including staffing and team management.  • Increased maintenance renewals by a factor of four in one year's time.  Information Systems Manager  • Project Manager for developing and implementing new CRM (Siebel) at TIBCO.  • Primary decision maker in vendor and integrator selection process, and negotiated contracts.  • Created and managed team comprised of full-time TIBCO employees and contracted consultants.    Technical Experience  • Project Management Tools: JIRA, Confluence, MS Project, Microsoft suite of office and various corporate specific project management tools.  • Methodology Experience: Agile Scrum, Scaled Agile Framework (SAFe), Waterfall, Kanban  • Technology Experience: Salesforce.com, TIBCO Integration software, Siebel, networking tools, system optimization & management tools, Windows Workstation and Server, Linux, VAX/VMS, UNIX, network devices, C, C++, Fortran, Pascal, Basic, Cobol, SQL  • Certification: CompTia Linux+ (expired) Education Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Science Arizona State University - Tempe, AZ