IT Auditor /Cyber Security Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> Auditor /Cyber <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Auditor /Cyber Security Analyst - ClickHouse Consulting Brooklyn, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Auditor /Cyber Security Analyst ClickHouse Consulting February 2017 to Present • Performing audits using COBIT, COSO, PCI DSS, SSAE 18, HIPAA SOX and Cyber security Frameworks.  • Have in depth experience performing audit with IT general controls (ITGC) such as; access control, change management, IT operations, disaster recovery and platform reviews (Windows and UNIX OS).  • Coordinating with IT department and external auditors during SOX IT testing • Work with Engagement Team to identify and resolve client issues discovered during Audit and Review Process.  • Testing and documentation of key SOX and IT General controls leveraging a defined process compliance monitoring process.  • Assisting with walkthroughs and held meetings with client to discuss areas to be tested: Access, Risk Management, Configuration Management, Identity and Access Management, Incident Response, Contingency Planning, and Security training • Understand and report on control exception and deficiencies • Produce automated work papers clearly documenting work performed • Serving as the principle advisor to the Information System Owner and Authorizing Official on all matters involving security of the information systems; • Develop Security Assessment plan (SAP) according to NIST SP 800-53A.  • Determine security controls effectiveness (i.e., controls implemented correctly, operating as intended, and meeting security requirements) using the three basic methods of assessment - Examine, Interview and Test (EIT).  • Assess existing security policies, processes, and templates against NIST guidance.  • Perform on-site security testing using vulnerability scanning tools such as Nessus.  • Document findings in the Security Assessment Report (SAR) and Conduct risk assessments regularly; ensured measures raised in assessments were implemented in accordance with risk profile, and root-causes of risks were fully addressed following NIST 800-30 and NIST 800-37.  • Develop NIST Compliant vulnerability assessments, technical documentation, and Plans of Action and Milestone (POA&M), and Address System Weaknesses.  • Ensure customers are in compliance with security policies and procedures following NIST 800 53 and NIST 800-53A. Business Development Officer Ghana Interbank Payment and Settlement Systems July 2016 to January 2017 e-zwich support and training for Banks and Merchants • Supported and trained most e-zwich tellers and operators of most of the major banks and some rural bank branches on the e-zwich platform.  • Ensured that e-zwich services are offered effectively and efficiently.  • Similar support and training activities have been done for merchants with the Point of Sale (POS) device to ensure the smooth operation of e-zwich for transactions at merchant points.  • I have done e-zwich support and training activities in Accra, Cape coast, Mankesim, Koforidua, Ho, oda and Kade.  Leap Project • I was part of a two-man team that piloted the implementation of payment of LEAP beneficiaries through the e-zwich platform in the Kwahu-West district. I educated the LEAP beneficiaries about the e-zwich acquisition, usage and benefits of using the e-zwich cards. I also supervised the enrolment of the LEAP beneficiaries. Education Master's in Management Information Systems GIMPA - Accra Bachelor's in Economics University of Ghana - Accra Skills Share point, Unix, Excel, Microsoft word, Powerpoint, security, testing, Microsoft Office, SQL, Sharepoint Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS:  • Microsoft word, Excel,  • Share Point Based System  • Operating Systems (Windows and UNIX),  • Teammate