Network Engineer II - Contract Network Engineer II - Contract Director of IT - U2Cloud Las Vegas, NV Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Engineer II - Contract Credit One Bank - Las Vegas, NV August 2017 to Present Tasked with building out and configuring new datacenter in Las Vegas. Tasks include all new WAN/LAN infrastructure, IDS/IPS security, access control systems, and wireless. Some technologies i’m implementing are Cisco Nexus, Cisco Firepower, Cisco ISE, F5 Load Balancers, and Radware DDos Prevention. Director of IT U2Cloud - Jacksonville, FL July 2017 to Present Working with the latest technology to bring a cloud solution to a growing market. Provided desktop and software as a service to customers. Focused on a secure and robust cloud infrastructure design. Responsible for and directed the cloud, network, support, and data services teams. Created and managed the budget for the IT department.    Responsible for the direction and focus of the IT department that was spread out between data centers in USA and inside of Microsoft Azure. Developed a team to run a highly efficient and automated cloud services platform. Worked with the team to provide training and guidance, with a direct hands on approach. This included design and support of the network, security, data, and systems.    Report directly to the CEO to define IT business strategy and developments. Working exclusively on ROI analytics and showing IT value through proper metrics. Managing Director EZ Technology Ltd, - China - ???? March 2014 to January 2017 EZ Technology is a managed services IT consulting company. Established a new presence in Macau with a direct focus on the gaming industry and SME. Worked directly with clients to establish long trusting relationships and to provide the best possible service. Managed projects in security, networking, system infrastructure, disaster recovery, and business continuity.    Continued to provide high level management and business direction from USA. Senior Network/ Security Engineer Borland-Groover Clinic - Jacksonville, FL February 2012 to March 2014 Developed and designed new projects in accordance with company's needs. Responsible for the network infrastructure and resolved any issues that arise. Work daily with VMware, Citrix, SAN's, and network.    • Worked directly with upper level management to achieve business goals and develop strategic road maps. Lead designer and engineer on million dollar projects. IT/Operations Consultant Autarco - Shanghai - ??? October 2013 to December 2013 Responsibilities  • Provide technology background to help research new business developments. Worked on projects and polices to strengthen IT infrastructure. Meet with business partners to ensure healthy relations and to develop new product lines. Network Architect Palm Coast Data - Palm Coast, FL April 2011 to December 2011 Responsible for over 80 physical servers, 70 virtual servers within VMware ESX, all Cisco networking equipment, and the SAN environment. Responsible for all IT software that's installed on the Windows and Linux servers. Top level Tier 2 support for all IT operations. This includes all networking within our infrastructure, Exchange email, Active Directory/GPO, antivirus, ISA server/web proxy, and company data backups.    • Worked independently on projects assigned by Payment Card Industry (PCI) Data Security Standard. Had to follow and meet strict requirements to comply with the PCI standards. Worked closely with auditors to address any standard that must be kept.    • Addressed any firewall/ security issue that would arise. Managed the patching of windows and Linux servers. Technology Support Analyst Supervisor East Carolina University - Greenville, NC August 2009 to April 2011 Supervised a team of 6 technicians to complete day to day tasks while also overseeing project completion.    • Maintained and supported 3,000 computers across campus, providing support to resolve any issue relating to PC hardware, software, network/system administration, and/or printers. Maintained active directory, file servers, print servers, and database servers.    • Develop scripts/GPO's to help ease IT administration and system installation. Onsite Business Engineer/ IT Consultant Computer Peripherals Unlimited - Greenville, NC May 2008 to May 2009 Supported, implemented, and advised hundreds of business clients on information technologies that meet their business objectives. Maintained all clients' network, data, and IT systems. Setup, scheduled, and held meetings with clients to evaluate their network and backup solutions.    • Provided remote support/onsite support for all business clients resolving any network, PC, malware, server, and/or database related problems. Computer/Network Support Specialist Chatsworth Products, Inc - New Bern, NC September 2005 to January 2008 Managed, maintained, and supported all networking equipment, computer systems, servers, and remote equipment. Equipment for the main facility, New Bern, included 70 computers, 34 servers, 15 Cisco networking devices (Routers, Switches, VPN, Access Points, Firewalls), more than 30 printers, and over 20 laptops. Supported four additional Chatsworth facilities, with equipment in excess of 300 PCs, supporting end-users remotely. Cataloged all warranty information and maintained all IT inventory: hardware, software, and smart phones/PDAs. Managed ACS server for wireless networking and security authentication. Implemented, set up, and maintained thin client technology. Set up and supported all facility Cisco phones and voicemail. On call for all facilities, 24 hours a day.    • Redesigned IT infrastructure data center by upgrading to new server cabinets, cable management, and cooling solutions. Established the remote infrastructure management system while recording, analyzing, and monitoring all environmental conditions within the data center.    • Responsible for testing and approval of all Microsoft updates. Managed and maintained content on the intranet using Microsoft SharePoint. Managed all user accounts in ERP database, created and configured all new employee user and email accounts.    • Implemented Symantec backup system and anti-virus solution McAfee EPO. Configured security policy and scheduled all backup jobs and file restore operations. Researched and implemented initial Disaster Recovery Plan, which included the creation of thorough documentation on Risk Analysis and Asset Management. Created Disaster Recovery Plans for specialized Infrastructure systems.    • Team leader for the support of over 30 of the facility's mobile, international, and telecommuting employees, handling the remote maintenance and support of all laptops, smart phones, and PDAs. Implemented remote backup solution to protect, secure, and restore confidential company data.    • Created and administered shipping label printing solution for internal use, as well as outsource partners, using Chatsworth's SQL database. Implemented and managed web server that Outsource partners used to print product labels. The implementation improved quality and efficiency while lowering cost.    • Developed computerized training videos on PC usage and Microsoft Office for internal use. Held training classes on email archiving and how to use Microsoft product suite for company personnel. Enforced and trained users on IS, acceptable use, and security policies to ensure strict confidentiality and security needs were met and maintained. Computer Lab Technician/ Teachers Assistant Craven Community College - New Bern, NC December 2004 to December 2005 Troubleshot and resolved computer related issues for students and instructors at the New Bern campus. Acted as a first line technical support technician for school applications such as Blackboard.    • Maintained and tracked all inventory in more than 5 computer laboratory classrooms. Installed hardware and software on college computers. Networked, set up, and supported classroom and instructor computers. Assisted Instructors with location and installation of software teaching materials. Technical Support/Computer Technician Option Technology & Nistarr Communications - Morehead City, NC August 2003 to December 2003 Technical support for Internet Service Provider (ISP). Performed inventory control for multiple accounts.  • Performed hardware and software installation and on site PC repair for company and customer computers. Education Master of Science in Computer Science University of North Florida 2013 Bachelor of Science in Industrial Technology East Carolina University 2008 to 2010 Associate in Applied Science in Information Systems Security Craven Community College 2004 to 2008 High School Diploma Havelock High School 1998 to 2002 Skills ITIL v3 Foundation (IT Service Management) ----- VCP 5 VmWare Certified Professional ----- CCEE Citrix Certified Enterprise Engineer ----- CCAA XenApp Advanced Administration ----- CCA Citrix Xenapp 6.5 ----- CCA Citrix XenDesktop 5 ----- CCA Citrix XenServer 6 ----- CCNA Cisco Certified Network Associate (2013) ----- Network+ Certifications/Licenses Cisco - CCNA Citrix - CCEE ITIL v3 Vmware - VCP 5 Network+ Additional Information Operating Systems Windows Server 2008 R2, Windows Server 2003, Windows Server 2000, UNIX, Linux, Windows 7, Windows XP, Windows NT Workstation & Server 4.0, and other Legacy Windows operating systems    Hardware Cisco Routers, Cisco Switches, Cisco Wireless Access Points, Cisco ATA, Cisco Firewalls ASA, Cisco Phones, Citrix NetScalers, SANs, Blade Centers, RSA SecureID, Laptops & Workstations & Servers & Thin Clients (Dell, HP, IBM), RAID, SCSI, Smart Phones & PDAs (Treo Palm, Black Berry), Wireless Broadband Access Cards, Tape drives & Tape Drive Auto Loaders (IBM, Quantum, Dell), UPS, Printers and other peripherals    Software Cisco IOS, Cisco CallManager, Cisco Unity, Cisco IPCC, ASDM, Cisco Access Control Server, Citrix, Exchange, VMWare 5, Site Recovery Manager, GSLB (Global Server Load Balancing), Citrix Xen App 6, Citrix Xen Desktop 5, Citrix Netscaler 9/10, Active Directory & Group Policy, Veeam, Double Take, Vulnerability Scanners, Network Analyzers, Intrusion Detection systems, Check Point, VMware, Microsoft SQL Server, Symantec Netbackup, Symantec Backup Exec, MacAfee EPO & MacAfee Protection Pilot, WSUS, Windows Terminal Server, Loftware, IIS, Apache Tomcat, Microsoft SharePoint, Altaris, Microsoft Office Suites, Microsoft Visio, Robocopy, Imprivata    Network Protocols TCP/IP, DNS, WINS, DHCP, VOIP, FTP, SFTP, HDLC, SNMP, BGP, VPN, SSH, SMTP, Frame Relay, MPLS