Senior IT Project Management Specialist IV - HR, Safety & Security, OIG & Admin/Ops, and Corporate Systems IT Senior <span class="hl">IT</span> Project Management Specialist IV - HR, Safety &amp; <span class="hl">Security</span>, OIG &amp; Admin/Ops, and Corporate Systems <span class="hl">IT</span> Information Technology Specialist O'Fallon, MO Results-proven, technically skilled and financially astute IT professional with a record of success in planning, leading, and executing customized solutions, tools, and applications meeting business needs. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior IT Project Management Specialist IV - HR, Safety & Security, OIG & Admin/Ops, and Corporate Systems IT The Boeing Company - St. Louis, MO June 2017 to Present Led enterprise-wide implementation of ServiceNow HR Employee Portal (Worklife), HR Knowledgebase and HR Case Management System as part of the 2CHR HR Transformation program. Key Results:  • Drove selection process of the ServiceNow technology solution to fulfill the enterprise business strategies and objectives defined by the HR business partner and IT.  • Led a team of over 80 Boeing and system integration partner employees throughout the project life cycle, from inception to implementation over a two year timeframe utilizing an agile framework and AD&S deliverables.  • Monitored critical integration points and maintained alignment with peer technologies within the 2CHR program, to minimize risk and ensure key program milestones were met.  • Served as both an Integrated Project Team and Technology project manager, ensuring the priorities and goals of both the HR business partner and IT systems were met during the design, build & implementation stages of the program. Chief of Staff - HR, SSG & Corporate Systems The Boeing Company - St. Louis, MO June 2015 to June 2017 Partner with Senior Leadership to define, implement and communicate strategic direction and initiatives for the organization. Accountable for overseeing and directing operational activities for the organization; including allocating tasks to team resources in support of Enterprise policies and procedures to meet goals and objectives. Key Results:  • Led management and facilitation of day-to-day leadership team operations for St. Louis, Puget Sound and Huntington Beach based offices.  • Advised Director and leadership team on Statements of Direction, Executive-level meeting content and agendas, and enterprise-wide process changes based on strategic priorities; including Ad-hoc analysis and decision support.  • Developed and fostered an atmosphere of cooperation and trust among employees during multiple business-critical and contentious organizational mergers.  • Served as primary liaison/delegate between the Director and associated Boeing teams, including other Business & Supply Chain System organizations, the Chief of Staff network and additional non- IT business partners. IT Project Management Specialist III - HR, SSG & Corporate Systems The Boeing Company - St. Louis, MO September 2013 to June 2015 Progressed through increasingly responsible positions; culminating in assignments that include the management of business-critical, enterprise-wide projects. Key Results:  • Led organizational effort to communicate, apply and indoctrinate project standards and best-practice methodologies within the project management, functional and development teams.  • Brought the "voice of customers" into the organization to shape portfolio & individual project management strategies and plans.  • Led project-critical team interactions with business partners and external vendors to ensure deadlines were met and the statement of work delivered fulfilled business value objectives. IT Project Management Specialist III - Accounting, Corporate & Travel Systems The Boeing Company - St. Louis, MO January 2013 to September 2013 Led teams across broad technical, financial and business disciplines. Focused teams on business objectives and tracked progress to ensure project milestones were completed on time, on budget and with the desired results. Key Results:  • Exemplary track record of success in the instruction and mentoring of team members that consistently produce in high stress environments.  • Recognized for ability to identify, design and deploy innovative technologies that result in improved systems, increased production and decreased system costs.  • Defined processes and tools best suited to multiple financial software applications. Moved between agile and waterfall approaches depending on project specifics and business goals, creating detailed project road maps, plans, schedules and work breakdown structures. Systems/Data Analyst II & III - Accounting Close Systems The Boeing Company - St. Louis, MO April 1998 to December 2012 Develop models, perform analysis, and work on research assignments. Develop functional and system design specifications; led testing efforts; and ensure issues and needed changes are identified, tracked, communicated to development team, and quickly resolved. Key Results:  • Led financial reporting implementation effort for enterprise-wide PeopleSoft Accounts Receivable & Billing module for both Boeing Commercial and Government divisions that improved business-process efficiency.  • Partner with process leads, business customer and developers to translate business requirements into technical specifications.  • Autonomy to select appropriate business solutions based on system knowledge and recognized reporting expertise. Director of Product Development - Computer Aided Instruction Division MILLIKIN PUBLISHING COMPANY - St. Louis, MO August 1994 to April 1998 Performed key role in determining business, portfolio & product strategies, setting organizational direction, forming and maintaining external vendor partnerships and building a high-performing organization. Key Results:  • Developed a product portfolio strategy and led the short and long-range planning process, in collaboration with the leadership team.  • Set Operational Goals and Metrics for the product development and production functions to align with overall business strategy and direction.  • Managed individuals across development, including recruiting, hiring, setting objectives, and ensuring high performance of all members of staff in achieving company objectives. Education Master's in Project Management Washington University in St. Louis - St. Louis, MO July 2013 Bachelor's in Communication University of Missouri-St Louis - St. Louis, MO May 1995 Skills Coaching, Mentoring, Business management Certifications/Licenses Project Management Professional (PMP) July 2013