VICE PRESIDENT VICE PRESIDENT VICE PRESIDENT - GLOBAL SUPPLIER ASSURANCE SERVICES Newark, DE Work Experience VICE PRESIDENT GLOBAL SUPPLIER ASSURANCE SERVICES - Newark, DE March 2019 to Present Responsible for providing information technology oversight for external service providers, performing risk assessments of those parties, and ensuring compliance with corporate policies and industry standards.  ? Safeguarding corporate assets and potentially saving the company $billions by leading a team of assessors in conducting IT, Operations, Cloud, and Applications assessments.  ? Completed seven high risk third party/vendor assessments during the first six months of engagement and on track to complete about 15 assessments by year end.  ? Key member in the identification of methods to improve third party risk postures with the development of creative solutions that would mitigate risk. IT RISK ASSURANCE/INFORMATION SYSTEMS SECURITY OFFICER Ernst & Young LLP - Tysons Corner, VA October 2018 to March 2019 Served as a consultant on a high-stake DoD project with responsibility for securing this highly-classified system by providing technical guidance and completing tasks required for implementing the NIST RMF.  ? Implemented the NIST Risk Management Framework, complying with applicable Federal regulations.  ? Developed System Security Plan, POA&Ms, and other critical RMF documentation.  ? Obtained the Authorization to Operate (ATO) for a $15M U.S. Army project. MANAGING DIRECTOR SECURITY ADVISORY SERVICES - Lanham, MD September 2016 to October 2018 Recruited and developed teams of consultants to perform cyber security consulting engagements, collaborated with clients to determine initiatives, developed client engagement proposals and security programs.  ? Initiated, built and led the security advisory practice, which resulted in 100% increase in revenue.  ? Achieved revenues of over $2M from a zero base in less than two years.  ? Assisted clients in the implementation of GDPR and provided recommendations on IT solutions. PRESIDENT & CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Saint Monica University, Buea - CM May 2013 to August 2016 Founding President of an American style University in Africa and was responsible for overall management, particularly accreditation, program development, strategic planning, acquisition of resources, and staffing.  ? Secured both national and international accreditation for the University in record time.  ? Built a respected brand that lead to 400% increase in enrollment in three years.  ? Introduced online programs and was able to continue training students even during civil war. CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER IRGB - Rockford, IL August 2008 to May 2013 Initially hired as the Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) and promoted to CIO in August 2010. Responsible for developing and leading all operational and strategic planning of IT including implementation of equipment and systems; prioritizing IT projects; staffing, sourcing and purchasing; and strategic IT service partnerships.  ? Saved over $3m through automation of processes and re-training of existing employees.  ? Implemented a new PeopleSoft ERP, replacing an older system and outdated accounting procedures.  ? Recruited and developed a high caliber IT team, which understood and served business needs.  ? Architect overall strategy, systems, and policies for how company approaches information security. IT AUDIT MANAGER GTC - Hyattsville, MD May 2002 to August 2008 Initially hired as an Information Security Analyst and promoted to IT Audit Manager in February 2005.  ? Schedule and oversee the work of audit teams ensuring timeliness and professional standards.  ? Perform audit scoping, procedure development, walkthroughs, controls testing of high-risk areas etc.  ? Recommend product upgrades, patches and other security measures to better secure systems.  ? Provide privacy and systems security compliance guidance throughout the SDLC. Education PhD in Cyber Security Charisma University 2015 PhD in Business Administration Charisma University 2011 Master of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology University of Maryland University College - Adelphi, MD 2002 Skills Security, Business continuity, Data protection, Disaster recovery, Information security, Nessus, Qualys, Splunk, Access control, Encryption, Rsa, Peoplesoft, Html, Javascript, Ms project, Visio, Network security, Change management, Configuration management, Ms office Additional Information Areas of Expertise  • Network Security  • Cloud Security  • Application Security  • Operations Security  • Access Control    • Strategic Planning  • Project Management  • Risk Assessment  • Quality Assurance  • Defense in Depth    • Information Security  • Business Continuity  • Disaster Recovery  • Staffing  • Business Continuity    Technical Skills    Security Skills: Application Security, Cloud Security, IoT Security, Access Management, Network Security, System Defense, Data Protection/Encryption, Configuration Management, Change Management etc.  Security Tools: NESSUS, TraceSecurity, Xacta, CSAM, RSA Archer, STIGs, eMASS, ACAS, SCAP, Qualys etc.  Other IT Skills: Splunk, MS Office suite, Office 365, MS Visio, MS Project, HTML, JavaScript, Blockchain, ServiceNow, PeopleSoft, BambooHR etc.