Technology Consultant Technology Consultant Work Experience Technology Consultant April 2019 to Present Provide consulting services to small business and individuals. Reliability Consultant EMERSON AUTOMATED SOLUTIONS September 2013 to October 2018 * Provided consulting services to a variety of oil and gas clients. Conducted QC Testing Matrix for Catapult Maintenance Module(MM) functionalities. Created Maintenance Plans, Schedules and the MOM and Load-Leveling functionalities to check their integrity. Viewed the Failure Hierarchy Library. Utilized the Failure Hierarchy check sheet to draft failure Hierarchies. Created Problem, cause, and remedy statements and correctly entered project Failure Hierarchy data.  * Worked on FMEA Catalog Profile Template to ensure equipment cause and failure mode was classified.  * Defined equipment function statements, functional failure, failure modes, and effects and causes. Selected appropriate controls based on an understanding of failures through application of PdM and PM Controls Appropriately.  * Supported Failure Development. Viewed the Failure Hierarchy Library in Catapult. Utilized the failure Hierarchy check sheet to draft failure hierarchies. Created problem, causes, and remedy statements. Entered project failure hierarchy in catapult. Assist with Removing ServiceNow and testing the new functionalities of JIRA Ticket System.  * Gained expertise in SMRP best practices. Constructed a spreadsheet to list the function, functional failure/failure mode, local effect, end effect, classification, cause, detection method, control, control type, and action columns for a Vibration Transmitter and Drawworks.  * Served as part of a team to enhance and support separation activities on the SAP environment.  * Worked with IT support teams to develop, deploy and maintain solutions, implement and ensure compliance to standards, and provide input as a subject matter expert.  * Focused on support, maintenance, and enhancement to implemented SAP solutions. Ensured adherence to standards, policies and procedures. Gained expertise in a broad portfolio of activities including customer service, SAP Security - design, securing interfaces, and work with compliance and risk teams.  * Coordinated and collaborate with business and IT support teams to provide and deliver a quality, secured solution.  * Designed, advised, tested, implemented and document security best practice controls for SAP security solution, interface security, communication security, etc. Worked with business and project teams to troubleshoot issues with security objects, identify, and implement appropriate solutions.    * Recommended and developed security measures to protect information against unauthorized modification or loss. Provided support for SAP Security including user administration, role administration, and customer services. Reviewed existing IT General Controls, Segregation of Duties (SOD) and Sensitive Access matrix and identify the gaps.  * Identified IT General controls, SODs and Sensitive Access that can be added to the existing SOD Matrix based on business processes and system architecture Emerson Consultant, Reliability Engineer COLUMBIA PIPE & GAS COMPANY March 2016 to October 2017 * Prepped and reviewed data in Catapult to ensure readiness, completeness, lack of errors, and adherence to rule sets for QC Review/New Status. Checked for erroneous entries and edit/reworked if necessary.  * Performed QC reporting. Reported discrepancies to individuals performing data entry and creating the form of a simple log (Spreadsheet or document) indicating the discrepancy, the activity correcting the discrepancy, and the date of the discrepancy was resolved.  * Executed Item Master QC Checks and functions in Catapult. Reviewed records for incorrect and inconsistent data and inappropriate entries.  * Conducted MEL Quality Control Checks for asset records including Location Numbering/Descriptions, Equipment Numbering/Descriptions, Physical Location, Class/Subclass, Parent Location, Manufacturer, Model Numbers, User Fields, and Data Group.  * Adhered to Project Data Rule Set created during the applicable Strategy Session, and used to address Field Sizes, Acronyms, Abbreviations, use of a client dictionary, Standard entries for certain fields, and Equipment numbering and descriptions.  * Played key role in contributing to data development and scrubbing. Emerson Consultant, Reliability Engineer PARAGON OIL & GAS COMPANY July 2015 to December 2015 * Located equipment by Manufacturer and model number to establish quality Bill of Materials (BOMs).  * Contacted Manufacturers, vendors, or distributors to request equipment serial numbers required to obtain recommended spare parts list, manuals, and parts explosions. Identified parts from Manufacturers recommended spare parts list that were used by Maintenance. Created material masters and modified existing material masters to create BOMs. Emerson Consultant, Technical Alert & Bulletin Analyst NOBLE DRILLING SERVICES INC July 2014 to June 2015 * Assisted in creating a new SAP Process for Technical Alert and Bulletin (TAB) received via email (TAB@noblecorp.com) through the SharePoint Site.  * Classified and assigned to the appropriate SME Assigner to locate and distribute to appropriate group, such as Maintenance, Subsea, or Marines.  * Received the approved Safety Alert Routing Form Documentation in the Share-Point Database. Completed necessary steps to create a new TA Notification in SAP Maintenance Module(MM). IT Security STG Infrastructure Consultant IBM CORPORATION January 2013 to August 2013 * Ensured that acquisitions and IT assets were properly integrated into the client's infrastructure in accordance with the security guidelines, ensuring all systems were compliant with IBM standards.  * Implemented Security Compliance Manager (SCM) on assigned servers.  * Completed project for IBM within deadlines providing expertise integrating client's infrastructure within accordance of security guidelines. Security Information Administrator II SYSCO FOOD CORPORATION September 2002 to December 2012 * Served as Subject Matter Expert (SME) for Account Administration and Sysco Mainframe, AS400 and SWMS/RISC applications. Managed user set up, access verification and remediation.  * Supported all computer applications company-wide, including SAP, VPN, Foodnet, Enterprise Data Warehouse, Sysco Interactive University (SIU), Business Objects (BO), Sysco Mainframe, AS400, Online Ordering System (eSysco), Active Directory and Windows XP.  * Assisted, trained Sysco Employees and Infosys Contractors on various Helpdesk Applications.  * Created, modified, reset and unlocked users in SAP Environment, supporting 155 or more customers per week.  * Trained newly hired employees on various applications and systems such as: AS400, SWMS and SYSCO Mainframe.  * Updated wireless device accounts (iPhones, Blackberry, etc.) for approximately 15 customers per week.  * Set-up, created, modified and deleted new hires in Active Directory, AS400, SYSCO Mainframe, and SWMS on the average of four hundred and fifty a month.  * Completed extensive career supporting management in IT Security projects.  * Played key role assisting Ernst & Young and Sysco Internal Audit with each fiscal year Sarbanes Oxley (SOX) audit.  * Acted as the subject matter expert in Account Administration and System Access.  * Provided system documentation to complete each year's audit with minimal issues. Education Bachelor of Science in Management Information Systems A&M University - Prairie View, TX CCNA Cy-fair College Skills Mm module, Sap, Security, Jira, Information security