IT Compliance Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> Compliance <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Cyber Security Analyst Houston, TX SUMMARY  A technologically-savvy individual with deep interest in cybersecurity, information technology, process improvement and change management. Proven and demonstrated ability to effectively act as a first-level incident response handler in an organizational setting. A well-educated and exposed individual with high aptitude who demonstrates attention to detail and competency in mastering new systems and technologies. Highly adaptable and proficient in a wide array of security monitoring tools.    EDUCATIONAL: Work Experience IT Compliance Analyst Xigma Consulting - Dallas, TX September 2015 to April 2017 • Review the access control policy of the organization (software and physical) to determine its adequacy and effectiveness.  • Review the procedure for users' management and password security.  • Document physical access controls to computer resources by evaluating existing environmental security, conditions and available emergency procedures.  • Review and analyze audit evidence, documented processes and procedures.  • Helped establish annual audit using risk assessment methodology.  • Coordinate with various departments to create remediation plans for deficiencies found during audit.  • Perform tests to validate the Integrity and effectiveness of controls that are in place.  • Examine the audit trail to review access, user activities, and failed login/logout.  • Evaluate and review the business continuity planning of the organization to determine adequacy and effectiveness.  • Ensure audit tasks are completed accurately and within established timeframe.  • Reviewed the adequacies of key systems and application controls - Access control, Data Integrity, Segregation of duties, disaster recovery, and change management among others. Information Security Analyst Globacom Limited May 2013 to April 2015 • Creating, testing and implementing network disaster recovery plans.  • Performing risk assessments and testing of data processing systems.  • Installing firewalls, data encryption and other security measures.  • Recommending security enhancements and purchases.  • Training staff on network and information security procedures.  • Participate and lead security design sessions to gather security requirements and provide leading practices on security design.  • Build, maintain and implement custom security classes and custom security roles based on approved security design.  • Assist Infor functional areas as required with Security troubleshooting and support. IT Field Support Technician Industrial Training Interswitch Limited July 2010 to February 2011 • Investigate and respond to all support requests.  • Provide remote support for field operations via phone, email and remote screen sharing.  • Contribute to, update and edit technical support knowledgebase articles for both internal IT and end user reference.  • Assist with on-boarding of new company employees including issuing hardware, creating user accounts and providing new user training. Education MS in Information in Assurance and Cyber Security Sam Houston State University - Huntsville, TX Bachelors in Computer in Science and Engineering Ladoke Akintola University of Technology Skills Oracle, Sql, Share point, Sap, Excel, Microsoft Office, Microsoft Excel, PowerPoint Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS: Microsoft words, Excel, Google Spreadsheets, Share Point Based System, SAP, SQL, Oracle, PowerPoint, Keynote