Jr IT Security Analyst Jr <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Jr IT Security Analyst - The Bronx Defenders Jacksonville, FL ? Adept in risk assessment, project management, and security audits  ? Experience in the creation and deployment of solutions protecting networks, systems and information assets for diverse companies and organizations.  ? Expert in the customer use of Microsoft Office, type over 65 wpm  ? Possess strong analytical and problem-solving skills to determine root cause of technical issues, and customer requests, and find best possible solutions to present to management  ? Transferred from general IT Management to Security Specialization  ? Ability to provide employee security awareness training to new and current employees  ? Ability to quickly and effectively analyze and act upon critical security events  ? Strong work ethic including solid attendance record and frequent overtime Work Experience Jr IT Security Analyst The Bronx Defenders May 2014 to Present Responded to cyber- security events and incidents.  ? Provided security monitoring and response for Security Operations Center (SOC).  ? Monitored, analyzed, and responded to events, alerts and incidents reporting supporting Attorney systems and taking appropriate action to protect IT assets.  ? Create and document all new employee security training and annual Security Awareness Training  ? Documented and reported changes, trends and implications concerning the design and integration of evolving Cyber- security tools, systems and solutions.  ? Followed SOC processes and provided support to Security Engineers and OCIO support staff during alerts, events and incidents.  ? Submitted new and update events in SOC ticketing system.  ? Provided phone and email support and participating partners during cyber- security alerts, events and incidents.  ? Provided off-hour and ad-hoc shift support as needed.  ? Manage, configure and support SOC video screens and systems in conference rooms.  ? Processed and shared information with other security teams and partners.  ? Provided feedback to SOC management and security engineers on existing and new use event cases.  ? Installed/ upgraded/ replaced server, device, or network components as needed.  ? Maintained current knowledge of relevant technology and tools.  ? Provided support for 1st tier Security Operation Center (SOC) Analyst in troubleshooting cyber- security events, alerts and incidents reporting to the SOC.  ? Followed detailed operational processes and procedures to analyze, escalate, and support the remediation of critical information security incidents.  ? Assisted with metrics, reporting, and other SOC communications.  ? Provided support for incidents up to the preliminary forensics processes with the Critical Incident Response Team. IT Helpdesk Lead Tier III EZ Income Tax and Resource Center October 2011 to April 2014 - Ad-Hoc committee    ? Remote Desktop Protocol development and implementation for BYOD program  ? Act as the Group Admin for all accounts Microsoft 365 Enterprise and Active Directory  ? Created, managed, and maintained user security in all business systems including Password Lockout/Resets/Requirements  ? Managed BYOD and mobile device program  ? Responsible for configuring, maintaining, and troubleshooting individual accounts  ? Effectively Performed access control, incident management, training for property security  ? Actively maintained and updated daily reports to be routed to higher authority to maintain accurate records and accountability of daily activities  ? Draft incident case reports, collected background info and evidence from statements during investigation and uploaded data into proper management information system for proper processing  ? Feasibility engagements with business groups to ensure integrated network strategies are incorporated early in the process.  ? Adequately analyzed data collected to aid in property management for all personnel  ? Managed and maintained daily requests via Remedy ticketing  ? Reviewed annual inventory to manage any shrink occurrences and ensure the security of equipment  ? Installed firewalls, data encryption and other security measures  ? Create and provided annual training to protect against new threats - Security Awareness Training IT Helpdesk Lead Ferguson Investment Group April 2007 to October 2011 Actively participated in control review board and change management board  ? Assisted in establishing new processes and procedures on responding to various security incidents, significantly increasing response time and improving overall customer service.  ? Implemented processes and ensured helpdesk met SL standards  ? Managed network and desktop groups on an interim basis for 4 months until full time manager could be found and trained  ? Evaluated laptop hardware options to determine best fit in environment as well as reliability and cost  ? Collaborated and work extensively with desktop engineers for image capture and build for new laptop refresh  ? Worked closely with networking on network printer deployment  ? Coordinated mobile phone device program as well as upgrade and BYOD implementation and security management nature and the ranged from Secretary to Executive Assistant Department of Homeland Security - TSA March 2003 to April 2006 3/2003-4/2006  ? These positions were mostly administrative in nature and the ranged from Secretary to Executive Assistant.  ? Progressively became a power user with the Office package on the Admin side in these positions Education Assoc in Information Technology Daytona State College Skills Acls (5 years), budget (Less than 1 year), deployment (4 years), inventory (2 years), training (7 years), Microsoft Office, Security, Active Directory, access Assessments English Communication Skills: Typing — Expert March 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively transcribe text using a standard keyboard. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/plze2-fhrqqpvjdy Basic Computer Skills — Highly Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ya-lhn0sl7pj2ski Technical Support — Familiar March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/w-8w3x8zb7dqioam Proficiency with Microsoft Office: Mail & Calendar (Mac) — Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate’s proficiency in using Microsoft Office Mail and Calendar tools to manage their workload. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ubq2nzi-6cqwrrgq Intermediate Word Processing Proficiency with Microsoft Word — Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate's knowledge of intermediate Microsoft Word techniques including the use of formatting, Track Changes, and Comments. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/sh-qh4yfbs-a0w97 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.