ITOS Contract, Supporting Social Security Administration ITOS Contract, Supporting Social <span class="hl">Security</span> Administration ITOS Contract, Supporting Social Security Administration - OBXtek Glen Burnie, MD Highly motivated dynamic IT Professional with over 15 years of Federal and Public sector IT experience. Energetic and dedicated to maintaining and exceeding professional standards. Displays a professional demeanor, effective communication skills, excellent customer service skills, high attention to detail, and the ability to take initiative resulting in high levels of productivity on independent and team directed projects. Professionally recognized for project work on the Windows Virtualization Migration Project, supporting the Federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid.    I am a United States Citizen and registered for Selective Service Work Experience ITOS Contract, Supporting Social Security Administration OBXtek - Baltimore, MD July 2014 to August 2019 Yvonne Nelson, Program Mgr 410-966-2068    Task 21 Messaging Client Support - Senior LAN/WAN Engineer  • Supporting email system that encompasses a volume of 40+ million messages monthly and over 100K email accounts  • Provide technical Level 2 for MS Exchange, Outlook & Skype  • Work directly with Outlook customers as well as their technical contacts to administer, troubleshoot, and resolve issues within Microsoft Exchange and Outlook.  • Determine when escalation is required to Tier 3 for technical issues  • Migrated Exchange users from Exchange 2007 to Exchange 2013  • Perform mailbox moves to different DAGs and/or domains as needed  • Perform mailbox size changes as needed  • Provided training to local system admins for using Exchange Administration Center  • Other Responsibilities include: Creating personal mailboxes, resource mailboxes, conference room mailboxes and distribution lists, maintaining email address changes, Troubleshooting Outlook related issues including tracking messages and assisting with mailbox recovery.  • Nominated and awarded Customer Service Certificate of Appreciation from the Associate Commissioner, Office of Operations  • Received departmental Certificate of Appreciation for 2015 & 2016  (Note: Started this position as a subcontractor through Insight Global. Position converted to full time OBXtek posting in January 2015) Windows System Administrator, Sr Lockheed Martin - Baltimore, MD October 2007 to May 2014 * Exchange Administration. Responsibilities include: Creating personal mailboxes, resource mailboxes, conference room mailboxes and distribution lists, Maintaining Global Address List changes, Troubleshooting Outlook related issues including tracking messages and assisting with restores.  * Outlook client troubleshooting. Configuring outlook client rules & profiles. Assisting users with archiving to PSTs both manually and/or using autoarchive features.  * Support of Physical and Virtual servers. Work includes; new server builds, hardware troubleshooting, maintaining the Operating systems and decommissioning servers.  * Experienced in Windows Server Platform OS Support including: Windows 2003, Windows 2008 & Windows 2012  * Experienced in supporting VMware VCenter 5.0  * Belmanage Tool Application Owner. Responsibilities include; Monitoring and maintaining Belmanage inventory application, reporting, inventory management and auditing.  * Security support. Work includes; Review & approving of all new monthly Microsoft security patches, Monitoring and deployment of patches, patch issue troubleshooting, Performing routine password changes to local admin accounts and Service accounts to comply with security standards, Security audit finding remediation from both internal and external audits, Performing quarterly audit of file permissions for Office of the Actuary.  * Administrative Support. Work includes; backfilling for the Wintel operations lead, Management of Remedy ticket queue including trouble tickets and service requests, SLA metric reporting, completing Change requests, reporting of daily team ticket metrics, attending weekly meetings to report team status of open issues.  * Experienced in Remedy ticket management tool.  * Received Special Recognition Award for demonstration of excellence in support of Server Virtualization Project Windows System Network Analyst Lockheed Martin - Baltimore, MD February 2006 to October 2007 * Monitored Network using Tivoli Netview to maintain network connectivity.  * Coordinated with internal and external customers to restore service during network outages.  * Provided remote access support.  * Actively participated in Change control meetings both internally and with the customer  * Work with AT&T to monitor remote site connectivity across the country  * Provide after hours Service Desk support.  * Lead role for Remote Operations during Pandemic and/or Crisis scenarios  * Received Special Recognition Award/Performance Excellence Award for "Excellence supporting the customer's critical needs with a high degree of responsiveness" IT Service Desk Technician Lockheed Martin - Baltimore, MD June 2005 to February 2006 * Worked as help desk support. Environment included 100% phone support, providing remote control access support  * Answered calls and troubleshot computer related issues  * Outlook Client support (configuration and troubleshooting Outlook Desktop client)  * Re-routed escalated issues to appropriate functional areas  (Note: Started this position as a subcontractor through Incepture. Position converted to full time Lockheed Martin posting in July 2006) Junior IT Administrator VetCentric - Annapolis, MD March 2005 to May 2005 1-888-838-2368    Junior IT Administrator  * Provided hands-on Windows desktop support in response to trouble tickets  * Responsible for receiving and imaging all new company workstations  * Validated, updated and managed knowledgebase documentation  * Created 3 new group areas with new workstations  * Patched network and phone connections  * Performed physical inventory of all company hardware and validated licensing in preparation for audits  (Note: This was a contract position through Spherion Professional Services; 410-269-1092) IT Support Center Level 2 Technician/Telecom/Technical Lead Constellation Energy - Baltimore, MD June 2003 to January 2005 1-888-232-4300    IT Support Center Level 2 Technician/Telecom/Technical Lead  * Help Desk environment.  * Outlook client support (configuration and troubleshooting)  * Provided first line support to internal and external customers calling in questions and problems with company PC's and applications.  * Telecom Responsibilities including: programming of telephone sets and pagers & maintaining Enterprise Phone Directory using Avotus software.  * Tech Lead responsibilities including; reviewing tickets before escalation to other teams, providing support and knowledge to my coworkers to insure customer service quality.  * Position Required Unescorted Access Authorization for Constellation owned Nuclear Power Plants Sogeti LLC June 2003 to April 2004 Hired for full time Constellation Energy position on April 5, 2004) Education Associates of Applied Sciences in Computer Network Management Anne Arundel Community College May 2002 Skills Outlook, System Admin, System Administrator, Active Directory, Vmware, SCCM Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ Present Assessments Technical Support — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/yasj7nrtdiwkco9n Basic Computer Skills: PC — Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/sxeyboikrk5m-oxb Project Management Skills: Time Management — Highly Proficient July 2019 Prioritizing and allocating time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/7gyj0of8oixtwttw Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/fzn6eclrjuktbpya Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.