Resolve technical and business incidents independently while Mentor Resolve technical and business incidents independently while Mentor Resolve technical and business incidents independently while Mentor - DXC Ashburn, VA Work Experience Resolve technical and business incidents independently while Mentor DXC - Sterling, VA March 2016 to Present Sterling, Va. March2016-Current    Field Technical Spt Cons V (Remote)  Perform services for end-user while monitoring server and network devices in a Government and privates sector environment.    Responsibilities:  • Integrated the technical knowledge that solved issues for customers.  • Provide desktop, application and network application incident resolution for clients and customers.  • Resolve technical and business incidents independently while Mentor/assist less-experienced team members on complex incidents  • Deliver strategic account support by maintaining high-level technical and operational expertise.  • Maintain high-level expertise that focused on future technology directions  • Develop and grow assigned customer account relationships using complex and strategic measures.  • Contribute to tasks outside normal mission-critical support specialist. Technician Support /AV Technician Supervisor Innovative Media - Rockville, MD January 2010 to Present Server Installer (contractor / Freelance)  Supervised and participated in the team to install and reconfigure servers at various corporations    Responsibilities:  • Organize breakout sessions  • Ensure Servers are reconnected with network system, workstations, and printer  • Help Desk provided first-tier support and troubleshooting for technology products and applications  • Served on team installing hardware, software, and workstation upgrades  • Install, configure and modify information for hardware and software to ensure optimal performance  • Updated Active Directory.  • Identify network connectivity problems and analyze the types of errors and warnings listed Desktop Engineer Specialists on Call - Reston, VA September 2016 to September 2018 Perform services for end-user while monitoring server and network devices in a Healthcare environment.    Responsibilities:  • Gather analyze, and report end-user support trends  • Provide desktop, application and network application incident resolution  • Manage user installation and relocations requests  • Asset Inventory Support, conducting a physical inventory of assets and conducting scheduled and random electronic inventories  • Reset and create Active Directory accounts and groups.  • Re-image, set-up, configured, install patches, and software applications for the user laptops.  • Created active directory accounts, Office 365 accounts, and application accounts for users.  • Maintain/Monitor/Troubleshoot LAN/WAN equipment (i.e. routers, switches,) across corporate offices.  • Inventory and manage software, hardware, and other IT supplies.  • Support remote and local users on their issue.  • Used ticking system Oasis to support remote and local user  • Administer and maintain systems support for software, hardware and servers: troubleshoot, diagnose, and resolve all problems.  • Maintain network documentation  • Work with vendors to resolve patient impacting issues.  • Install and maintained projectors and computer equipment for conference rooms.  • Assist customer creating accounts and login issues  • Used CRM tool to log carts of customers Innovative Media - Washington, DC 2008 to 2018 Jr. Security Analyst Inova Health System - Sterling, VA June 2016 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Authenticated basic access control to users according to the SLA.  • Granted and deleted access to users within the domain.  • Document request into the databases to ensure efficient processing for Information Technology team members.  • Provide troubleshooting support for user issues.  • Assists in the development of IT policies and procedures that provided safeguards. Junior Systems Analyst Sysazzle, LLC - Washington, DC March 2016 to June 2016 Provided technical assistance to the user, created documentation check list while troubleshooting and maintenance laptops virus removal/password resets/email setup/software installs/ laptop re-imaging.    Responsibilities:  • Gather analyze, and report end-user support trends  • Provide desktop, application and network application incident resolution  • Manage user installation and relocations requests  • Asset Inventory Support, conducting a physical inventory of assets and conducting scheduled and random electronic inventories  • Install, maintain, and upgrade laptops, workstations and software, mobile devices, printers, copiers, and fax machines  • Set up workstations and resolved networking issues  • Maintain and repair workstations, computers, and mobile devices  • Install, configure, diagnose, repair and/or upgrade hardware and equipment ensuring its optimal performance  • Provide reporting and ticketing information  • Recommend improved procedures for CSC responsibilities  • Inform and educate clients by explaining procedures; answering questions; providing information IT Field Support / Junior systems analyst Dimensional Thinking, LLC - Atlanta, GA November 2014 to September 2015 Monitor support tickets submitted from assigned sites and resolve issues reported/logged.    • Install Apple apps unto devices as required for instruction.  • Settings of the networking devices (Cisco Router, switches) co-coordinating with the system/Network.  • Upgrading and backups of Cisco router configuration files  • Configuring network access servers and routers  • Troubleshoot and resolve minor wireless, network or switch issues at the site.  • Troubleshoot and resolve printer (or print) issues.  • Escalate major issues (wireless, network, etc.) to IT Infrastructure technical teams as necessary.  • Perform proactive support activities including but not limited to: Checking computer labs & media centers several times per week.  • Updating, install, and Apple IOS on MacBook, iPad & iPod carts  • Installing Windows updates and patches  • Identify and update (or report) unsupported operating systems i.e. Windows XP  • Ensuring that antivirus software installed on all machines and scans are completed routinely.  • Checking Interactive White Boards (and Projectors) in classrooms to ensure that they are functional.  • Update user and asset information in the database (as necessary)  • Inventory, validate and report all technology items in schools. Report any asset transfers to ensure ownership is properly captured.  • Provide support for projects (as needed) that may be running in the schools.  • Follow established processes and procedures. Report to IT any suggestions that will improve the process or make support easier or more efficient.  • Work with schools to understand technology needs and funnel requirements to IT department through reporting manager/supervisor.  • Document work performed (and steps to resolve issues) at all times within the ticketing system for audit or knowledgebase purposes.  • Record and submit checklists or other documentation as maybe required. Desktop Engineer Techni-Core, Inc - Huntsville, AL August 2013 to October 2014 Responsible for installing, configuring, and maintaining operating system workstations and servers; Provide Level II systems and network support    Responsibilities:  • Advises and assists clients in resolving and defining network problems and obtaining solutions; provides troubleshooting assistance in resolving operational problems, responsible for maintaining data security for the LAN  • Performs software installations and Symantec upgrade for the new user.  • Monitors and tunes the system to achieve optimum performance levels  • Ensures workstation data integrity by evaluating, implementing, and managing appropriate software and hardware solutions  • Creation, modification, and deletion of user accounts; addition of software drivers; and connections of systems to the network  • Set up and maintain network operations, IP Phones, Printers, and assembly of network hardware while providing assistance to the network administrator  • Performed network troubleshooting to isolate and diagnose common network problems  • Upgraded network hardware and software components as required  • Configuring email accounts, Windows 8 for iPads and preparing laptops and desktops for new users  • Assured databases are backed up and validated according to recovery procedures to assure company requirements are met. Work-Study - IT Technician/Tech Tech Stars - Huntsville, AL June 2013 to August 2013 support  Dispatch Field Techs; Communicate with Techs in the field to install telephone, cable, and internet. Provided Tier II helpdesk support; Assisted clients by troubleshooting telecommunications equipment installation and configuration.  Responsibilities:  • Managed receipt of work orders and troubleshoots cable, high speed, and digital phone service problems.  • Interface with customers via phone for confirmation of appointments and any follow up needed  • Determines and schedules work orders and service calls according to urgency.  • Assigns work orders for distribution.  • Install, troubleshoot, repair, disconnect and/or reconnect high-speed internet, cable, and phone to client customers  • Coordinate customers services AV Technician Trainer Maslow Media Group - Arlington, VA January 2011 to January 2013 Contractor)  Developed a training program to asset with new employees at various locations to install, set up and maintain audiovisual equipment  Responsibilities:  • Worked in a government-operated environment; collaborated with executive management to ensure requirements for production set up was executed.  • Trained and Supervised team to set up projectors, microphones, audio consoles, recording equipment, videoconferencing systems and cameras; worked with permanently installed audiovisual equipment Innovative Media - Washington, DC 2011 to 2013 Innovative Media - Arlington, VA 2010 to 2013 Local 22 Washington, DC 2009 - 2010  11th hour Production Washington, DC 2009 - 2010 Dispatcher/ Cable Installer/Network Support WCC Cable, Inc - Centerville, VA August 2010 to August 2011 Dispatch Field Techs; Communicate with Techs in the field to install telephone, cable, and internet. Provided Tier II helpdesk support; Assisted clients by troubleshooting telecommunications equipment installation and configuration.  Responsibilities:  • Receives customer work orders and troubleshoots cable, high speed and digital phone service problems.  • Interface with customers via phone for confirmation of appointments and any follow up needed  • Determines and schedules work orders and service calls according to urgency.  • Assigns work orders for distribution.  • Install, troubleshoot, repair, disconnect and/or reconnect high-speed internet, cable, and phone to client customers  • Coordinate customers services    Camera/ Video/Audio Technician  (Contractor / Freelance) Contractor DC Convention Center, Gaylord Resort, and Hyatt Hotel on Capital - Washington, DC 2008 to 2009 A.V. Team Washington, DC 2008 - 2009    Build and operated cameras Set up cameras, lighting, and audio at the DC Convention Center, Gaylord Resort, and Hyatt Hotel on Capital. Contractor:    Responsibilities  • Install audio boards, Lays, and Microphones; maintained/operated equipment  • Build projectors, backgrounds, and screen set-ups according to detailed layout plans  • Install and maintained projectors and computer equipment  • Operated camera and recording equipment for organizational conferences, festivals, and symposiums  • Provided Loadout and Load in's services at a various concert venue  • Filmed Dalai Lama of Tibet at 2009 DAR Constitution Conference Education Master's degree Western Governor's University July 2020 Bachelor's Degree in Information Systems and Cybersecurity ITT Technical Institute - Duluth, GA July 2016 Associate degree ITT Technical Institute - Madison, AL December 2014 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, LANDESK, VMWARE, NETWORKING, REMEDY Additional Information Functional Skills    • Ability to communicate (writing and verbal) technical and functional requirements pertaining to the installation, configuration and maintenance of hardware and software to clients and users.  • Experienced with time management when completing tasks and meeting deadlines in a fast-paced environment.  • Proficient in data security procedures and systems for all areas of the organization.  • Proficient in applying advanced diagnostic techniques to identify problems, investigate causes and recommend solutions to correct common failures.  • Proficient in coordinating corporate IT Help Desk to maintain the established Incident Tickets and Change Request process to track support using Remedy.  • Capable of maintaining and developing IT related procedures required to support the organization and providing recommendation to future IT needs of the organization.  • Work with the organizations' Information Assurance Officer (IAO) for achieving system accreditation.  • Proficient in maintaining data files and monitors system configuration to ensure data integrity.    Technical Skills    • Proficient in managing and troubleshooting WAN and LAN devices  • Working knowledge of networking principles, practice, and technologies.  • Knowledge of VMWare products, MS Office 365, and WebEx  • Working ability installing videoconferencing systems, projectors, workstation, laptops, cameras, audiovisual equipment.  • Working knowledgeable of Active Directory, Symantec Backup Exec, Symantec Endpoint Protection, and Group Policy.  • Ability to collaborate with the infrastructure team members, business analysts, developers, and database administration teams to ensure availability, reliability, and scalability of systems to meet corporate objectives.  • Perform computer related troubleshooting and maintenance including virus removal/password resets/email setup/software installs, and applications.  • Ability to review and deploy service packs, hot fixes, system updates using remote-control tools for servers and workstations.  • Working knowledge in the installation, operation, configuration, and customization Windows 7, 8, 8.1, 10, and OS X base environment.  • Experience with printer configuration service and support  • Mobile Device Support (iPhone, iPad; Android)    Applications    • Oracle Identity Manager (OIM) Zendesk  • RSA SecurID Soft Token Service Now  • AirWatch LANDesk  • Zoom Remedy