IT Support <span class="hl">IT</span> Support IT Support Wadsworth, OH Highly accomplished and results-driven Senior Level Security Professional, leveraging finely-honed management skills to successfully achieve program goals and objectives. Energetic and goal-oriented with a genuine passion for security and a well-rounded background in supporting a progressive organization. Well rounded knowledge of all aspects of security, inclusive of but not limited to Physical, Personnel, and Information security. Intimate familiarity with Department of Defense programs, specifically Pentagon Primary Technical Control Facility (PPTCF) and Army INSCOM. Have provided security over-site for contracts in support of a number of organizations within the Intelligence Community as well as Department of Justice. Have Demonstrated additional skills in the following areas: Program Management, Personnel Management, policy and procedure development, risk assessment/prevention, facility accreditation, security training programs, database development, and Request For Proposal writing.    Industries:  Department of Defense, Defense Intelligence Agency, Department of Justice, and Various Intelligence Community Agencies    Functional Areas:  Security Support for the following: INSCOM GENSIS II Program, INSCOM Army Linguist Program, INSCOM National Training Center Fort Irwin Role Player, Intelligence Community Analyst Programs, Intelligence Community Linguist Programs, Pentagon Primary Technical Control Facility. Provided Network support for Pentagon Network Team. Work Experience IT Support HP Stream February 2015 to January 2019 Provided IT Support. Performed software updates as necessary. Troubleshot hardware devices. Performed repairs as needed. Created user names and passwords for Administration, teachers and children. Maintained HP All In One desktop computers, HP Stream student laptops, Lenova teacher laptops. HP printers. Built, maintained, updated Cornerstone Life Academy Website. Built Cornerstone Life Academy Facebook page.    K-5 Computer Specials Instructor  Taught children grades K-5 basic computer skills, parts of the computer, touch typing, internet browser use, wordpad.. Troubleshot nested network issues and escalated any network issues to the Cornerstone Baptist Church Network Administrator. Evaluated student progress and reported any student issues to the Administration in a timely fashion. Provided constructive guidance and encouragement to the students.    Two Year Old Aide  Co-teach two year old preschool class using ABeka Curriculum. Assisted lead teacher in classroom management and lesson implementation. Assisted the lead teacher in maintaining the classroom relevant to the themes being taught. Encouraged, inspired and nurtured CLA children and their families. Provided a loving, health and safe environment for the children. Assisted lead teacher in maintaining the classroom in a neat and orderly fashion. Assisted lead teacher during special programs, activities, and fieldtrips. Completed other duties assigned by the lead teacher or Administration. Temporary AFSO Temporaries Now, inc October 2011 to February 2012 Provided expertise in auditing and purging both active and Terminated Personnel Security files for a third party client. Provided guidance and training to Security personnel in file management, Microsoft Office, and JPAS inclusive of the "ghost" PSMNet.  • Management of Security Files  Provided guidance and training to Security Personnel Principal Consultant Keane, Inc November 2009 to February 2011 Provide expertise in the area of Physical Security, specifically issues pertaining to Sensitive Compartmented Information Facilities (SCIFs). Provide guidance to CSO as necessary to mitigate issues which may arise. Ensure CSO is well versed in DCID 6/9, Security Program Manual, Technical Security Manual and various Electronic Communications references for mitigation purposes. Act as liaison between customer and inspector during mitigation to identify specific issue and mitigate as necessary. Create physical security procedures specific to site supported. These procedures include, but are not limited to Access Control, Visitor Control and Metal Detector. Research additional issues as they arise and report findings, providing back up documentation, to CSO. Inventory Security Equipment. Request badge access to customer facilities for assigned personnel. Request after hours access for assigned personnel.  • Responsible for coordination of SCIF mitigation, accreditation and transfer coordination. Mitigation required written response to compliance concerns which had been previously identified.  • Ensured facility accredited to meet Special Access Program (SAP) requirements in conjunction with current mission.  • Drafted two separate transition plans, subsequently approved for inter-agency facility transfer. Each Transition Plan provided detailed information pertaining to transfer of security oversight responsibilities to gaining division  • Created MS Access database to track personnel facility access, security clearances, and network accesses designed to produce real-time rosters and reports  Environment: DCID 6/9, Security Program Manual, Agency Specific Access Control Policy, Agency Specific Visitor Control Policy, FSS/BPMS, Facility Inspection Electronic Communication, Technical Security Policy Director of Corporate Security Calnet, inc April 2005 to February 2009 Created Corporate Security Program from the ground up. Drafted and subsequently implemented a number of Corporate Security Policies: Standard Policies and Procedures (SPP), Emergency Response Plan (ERP), Systems Security Plan (SSP), Administrative Measures Regarding Security Violations, and Security Awareness Training.    Assumed full responsibility for managing the East Coast and West Coast Security Operations. Managed five full time Security Personnel. During processing events total managed increased to twenty. Managed the overall security programs for over fifteen different projects. Personnel Security Management and vetting of candidates for Counterintelligence Screenings were the primary function of this management position. Managed all aspects of the industrial security program and other security activities, ensuring compliance with government and company security policies and procedures. Was responsible for the Security Management of a Top Secret Facility. Maintained applicable directives and accreditation documentation. Conducted security briefings, continuing security, education, and awareness programs. Acquired extensive knowledge of INSCOM Army Linguist Security Program requirements as they pertain to Iraq, Afghanistan, National Training Center and Guantanamo Bay inclusive of CAT I, CAT II, and CAT III processing requirements. Knowledge of Intelligence Community contract specific security policies, procedures, and requirements. Worked with various agencies within the Intelligence Community to meet contract specific requirements. Created numerous Security Volumes in response to Request For Proposals (RFPs). Security Volumes addressed a myriad of security measures and countermeasures to be deployed in support of each program.  • Created the Security Program from the ground up, inclusive of Policies, Procedures, File System, Training. Received rating of commendable during Industrial Security Inspections 2005 and 2007 respectively.  Environment: JPAS, ACAVS, eQIP, EPSQ, MS ACCESS, NISPOM, NISPOM Overprint, NISPOM Supplement Facility Security Officer CACI, INC November 2003 to April 2005 Created Program Specific Security Program from the ground up. Drafted and subsequently implemented a number of Program Security Policies: Standard Policies and Procedures (SPP), Emergency Response Plan (ERP), Systems Security Plan (SSP), Administrative Measures Regarding Security Violations, and Security Awareness Training.    Held accountable for managing all aspects of the industrial security program and other security activities, ensuring compliance with government and company security policies and procedures. Administered the receipt, control, and accountability of SCI. Acted as COMSEC Custodian, Document Control Officer, Information Assurance Officer and Key Control Officer. Was responsible for the security management and oversight of both a Top Secret Facility and a SCIF Facility. Utilized working knowledge of Security Requirements for INSCOM Logistics Support Program (GENESIS II) as they pertain to the Warfighter Effort supporting operations in Afghanistan, Iraq, Kuwait, and additional CONUS/OCONUS locations. Hands on experience with NIPR and SIPRNET(s). Was responsible for vetting candidates for contract eligibility. Was accountable for all aspects of Personnel Security inclusive of initiating Periodic Reinvestigations, processing and investigating incidents, and training.  • Created MS ACCESS Database to capture personnel clearance information. Created a second MS ACCESS Database to provide better control of classified documents and destruction of said documents. Worked with client to restore historical program documentation which had been destroyed prior to contract transition.  Environment: JPAS, ACAVS, eQIP, EPSQ, MS ACCESS, NISPOM, NISPOM Overprint, NISPOM Supplement, DCID 6/9, DCID 6/3 Network Data Communications Analyst Lockheed Martin October 2000 to November 2003 Ensured that all personnel with access to classified information had the required authorizations as well as the appropriate access level and need-to-know. Acted as agency liaison for IT capabilities (IMPOC) and as the main POC for directorate on IT matters. Enforced physical measures designed to safeguard personnel, prevent unauthorized access to equipment, installations, material, and documents, and to safeguard them against espionage, sabotage, damage, and theft. Was responsible for the security management and accreditation of a SCIF Facility. Was accountable for appropriate use of and accountability of PCs, workstations, file servers, local area networks, and small systems oriented toward the functional user as the operator as Information Assurance Security Officer (IASO). Hands on experience with NIPR and SIPRNET(s). Created Security Volume in response to Request For Proposal (RFPs). Drafted initial Fixed Facility Checklist for the Pentagon Primary Technical Control Facility (PCTCF). Wrote and implemented an Information Systems Security Policy (ISSP) outlining proper network protocol as applicable to user authentication criteria as well as appropriate boundaries to be adhered to while utilizing a government information system.  • Tasked with SCIF accreditation. SCIF had been pending final accreditation for seven years. I was given thirty days, no historical data, and no points of contact to accomplish this task. I sought out proper governing body, worked through the historical data they had on file, ensured facility was within compliance, and received accreditation in twenty-nine days.  • Created MS ACCESS Database to capture personnel clearance information. Charged with maintenance and troubleshooting of existing MS ACCESS databases used to track hourly network logs as well as inventory control.    Environment: REMEDY (4.0/4.2), PROMINA, CSU/DSU, IDNX, MS ACCESS, DCID 6/9, DCID 6/3, NISPOM, NISPOM Overprint, NISPOM Supplement Security Administrator | NISA-P Security Manager | Training Administrator Global Management Systems, INC January 1999 to October 2000 Environment: REMEDY (4.0/4.2), EIC Telephone Software, KeyTrak System, EPSQ, ACAVS, NISPOM, NISPOM Overprint, NISPOM Supplement Education Introduction To Physical Security DEFENSE SECURITY SERVICE ACADEMY September 2010 B.S. in Computer Information Systems STRAYER UNIVERSITY - Fredericksburg, VA 2006 Security Threat Avoidance Technology U.S. ARMY TRAINING CENTER (online) September 2004 Certification U.S. ARMY TRAINING CENTER September 2004 JOINT MILITARY INTELLIGENCE TRAINING CENTER November 2003 Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: United States Rank: Sgt/E5 January 1984 to October 1990 Additional Information Methodologies: ACAVS, JPAS, eQIP, FSS/BPMS, Security Program Manual, NISPOM, NISPOM Overprint, NISPOM Supplement, DCID 6/9, DCID 6/3    SKILLS PROFILE  Desktop Tools:  Adobe Acrobat, Macromedia Flash, MS Excel, MS Exchange, MS Office (MS Outlook, MS PowerPoint, MS Project, MS Word, MS Publisher), MS Works, Norton Utilities, McAfee, Visio, WordPerfect, Lotus Notes, REMEDY 4.0, 4.2, EIC Telephone Software    Hardware: CSU/DSU Generic, IBM PCs, IDNX/Promina, KeyTrak System  Operating Systems:  DOS, IBM OS/2, Windows 10, Windows 8, Windows 2000 Professional, Windows 3.x, Windows 95, Windows 98, Windows ME, Windows NT, XP Professional, Windows Vista    Other: Security Specific Government Software/Databases | JPAS, EPSQ, eQIP, ACAVS, FSS/BPMS