IT Support <span class="hl">IT</span> Support West Palm Beach, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Support Keller Williams Wellington - Wellington, FL May 2013 to Present Responsibilities  Provide on-call IT support services for (150) real estate agents in corporate office setting. Consult and address any user-end related issues as well as plan, recommend, and implement solutions to expand business efficiency, organization, and technological possibilities.    Accomplishments  Successfully developed and implemented IT support ticketing system for office setting of (150) users. Owner/Operator Derrick A. Bomar - IT Support Services - West Palm Beach, FL January 2013 to Present Own and operate mobile IT Support Company, servicing a variety of issues and providing a range of solutions from user-end related issues to install and configuration of networks, hardware, and software. Provide on-site consultation and recommendation of ideas and solutions in the best interest of the clients' desires and integrates effectively and efficiently with the current environment they operate in. Cyber Security Compliance Analyst Intern FPL / NextEra Energy - Juno Beach, FL June 2012 to August 2012 Developed and published a Microsoft SharePoint collaborative website and interactive dashboard related to the compliance activities for the NERC CIP Cyber Security Standards. Handled project management activities and physical/cyber security measures in regards to Critical Infrastructure Protection for Corporate Security. Education B.B.A. in Management Information Systems Florida Atlantic University - Boca Raton, FL 2010 to 2013 A.A. in Business Administration Palm Beach State College - Palm Beach Gardens, FL 2007 to 2010 Additional Information Technology Summary:    • Systems: Windows XP/2K3/Vista/7/8/8.1, Mac OS  • Languages: Visual Basic, SQL, HTML, C++  • Software: MS Project, MS Visio, MS Office, MS SharePoint, Google Business Apps    Selected Contributions:    • Successfully completed Level 1 & 2 Microsoft Certified Training for MS SharePoint.  • Researched and successfully developed MS SharePoint collaborative workspace for Corporate Security department.  • Successfully developed and implemented IT support ticketing system for office setting of (150) users.