Financial Security Analyst Financial <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Business-minded professional East Moline, IL Work Experience Financial Security Analyst John Deere (through Sedona Staffing( - Moline, IL January 2019 to Present Identify potential fraud risks and correct and fix the risks. Prepare audit data, perform audits and work with external auditors. Creative Designer & Consultant D-Zines - East Moline, IL 1998 to Present Freelance graphic design and advertising consultation. Work directly with customers to develop custom designs and advertising campaigns for print, web and all other applications. Prepress & IT Manager Quad-City Times - Davenport, IA July 2012 to June 2017 Responsibilities included development of workflow processes and implementation, analyzing and monitoring productivity in a production setting, inventory control, equipment maintenance and acquisition, and interviewing, hiring and training of employees. Also included in my duties were commercial print sales, bidding and quoting print jobs, customer service, strategic planning (including implementation and communications), IT desk support, budget planning and maintenance, supervision of up to 30 employees, in-sourcing and outsourcing of processes, data analysis and reporting and design of advertising and promotional materials. Creative Manager Quad-City Times - Davenport, IA June 2010 to July 2012 Managing multiple departments and shifts of graphic designers and layout specialists. Overseeing production of multiple newspapers and magazines for both internal and external clients. Creative Manager Muscatine Journal - Muscatine, IA September 2008 to June 2010 Managing creative staff, scheduling of work, overseeing design of advertising, promotional materials and advertising inserts and special supplements for multiple internal and commercial publications. Creative Supervisor Quad-City Times - Davenport, IA February 2004 to September 2008 Overseeing graphic artist team of up to 8 employees, layout and design of newspaper and advertising supplements and workflow scheduling. Creative Designer Thrifty Nickel - East Moline, IL December 1999 to February 2004 Design of advertising and promotional materials and newspaper and special section layout and design. Education Business Administration University of Iowa - Iowa City, IA Skills Microsoft Office (10+ years), Adobe Creative Suite (10+ years), Advertising (10+ years), Written Communication (10+ years), Supervisor (10+ years), Management (10+ years), IT Help Desk (5 years)