Repair Technician Repair Technician Memphis, TN Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Repair Technician Kelly Service FedEx - Collierville, TN April 2019 to Present Diagnose, Repair, Update & Test Motorola MC9500 model handheld devices.  Courier & Delivery Driver R-Dent Dental Laboratories - Bartlett, TN March 2018 to May 2019 Package, organize, deliver. Repeat. Sales Associate GAME X CHANGE - Bartlett, TN August 2017 to May 2018 Assist customers with locating and making purchase  Assist customers with trade in of various media, electronics & accessories  Provide information to customers to assist with purchase  Form a familiarity with individual customers  ???????Interface with customers regarding news and history of Media and Video Games  Organization of goods in and on shelves and drawers  Maintain cleanliness of store  Sweep & vacuum  Clean glass and wooden surfaces  Collect and take out trash  Process and file away inbound goods  Clean out resurfacing device  Assist with Store close, counting Till, Petty Cash & Deposit  Calculate sales cash and credit  Report statistics to management nightly IT Systems Specialist The Salvation Army - Memphis, TN March 2016 to May 2017 Responsibilities  • maintaining multiple servers and virtual machines.   • Install, configure and troubleshoot Citrix Clients for end users.  • Deploy and configure IBM/Lotus Notes clients to machines specific to user.  • Manage User ID's and assist users with password recovery for IBM Notes.  • Creating, deleting or modifying permissions and roles for user accounts   • Troubleshoot and repair wired and wireless networks.   • Install or uninstall computer and AV equipment as needed.   • Perform routine maintenance & tune ups on client machines.   • Travel to other sites as needed.   • Asist IT HQ with equipment and/or software upgrades and role outs.   • Repair, maintenance or upgrade end user machines as needed.   • Operate inside a multi-OS environment, OSX, Windows & Linux  • Monitor network activity via Cisco Meraki system  Achievements and Merits  • Built & maintained a fresh and organized inventory of all IT and A/V related   equipment with Excel  • Networked with 3rd party vendors and other IT departments within the organization.   • Made IT management decisions with assistance of interim IT manager and other   department managers.  • Learned to operate UC560 VOIP server and add or modify phone extensions as needed. Freelance Computer Technician Self Employed - Memphis, TN 2006 to March 2016 Responsibilities  • Install, configure, and manage security software  • Install or Repair Operating Systems  • Troubleshooting Computers  • Customize desktop to user preferences  • Hardware upgrade and repair for both Desktops and Laptops  • Remote Desktop Support via LogMeIn & LogMeIn Ignition  • Perform Site Surverys  • Install and test Hardware and Security Devices Repair Contractor AppleOne - FedEx TechConnect - Collierville, TN December 2014 to July 2015 Responsibilities  Diagnose, Repair, Update & Test Motorola MC9500 model handheld devices. Laptop Repair Technician Flextronics - Memphis, TN May 2014 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • Accurately diagnose laptop  • Disassemble laptop  • Replace internal components  • Reassemble laptop  • Test laptop to verify successful repair  • Upgrade/Update or Re-install software, BIOS & OS as needed  • Perform visual post-repair inspection of the laptop Federal Student Work-Study ITT Tech - Cordova, TN August 2012 to February 2013 Responsibilities  • Network & Computer Support  o Ensure all network devices are enabled and working properly  • Software & Operating System Installation & Maintenance  o Troubleshoot & Repair problems on local machines  o Install & Configure operating systems  • Student Technical Support  o Troubleshoot and Resolve Technical Problems  o Assist students will accessing network resources  o Maintain Active Directory Users and Groups for Students IT Security Analyst Cummins Inc. - Memphis, TN October 2011 to May 2012 Responsibilities  • Access Control  o Provide software access to employees and customer (as needed)  o Manage and edit accounts for employees and customers  o Administrate Company Developed and 3rd Party software  • Project Management  o Develop proposal for project  o Coordinate with project team leaders and members  o Develop a project plan  o Commit to the plan in a time efficient manner Federal Student Work-Study ITT Tech - Cordova, TN January 2011 to October 2011 Responsibilities  • Network & Computer Support  o Ensure all network devices are enabled and working properly  • Software & Operating System Installation & Maintenance  o Troubleshoot & Repair problems on local machines  o Install & Configure operating systems  • Student Technical Support  o Troubleshoot and Resolve Technical Problems  o Assist students will accessing network resources  o Maintain Active Directory Users and Groups for Students Education Information Systems Security (Bachelor) in Applied Sciences ITT Tech - Cordova, TN 2011 to 2013 Computer Networking Systems (Associate) in Applied Sciences ITT Tech - Cordova, TN 2009 to 2011 High School Diploma in High School Gateway Christians Schools - Memphis, TN 2005 to 2009 Skills Linux (2 years), Windows Xp (6 years), Windows 7 (6 years), Windows 8 (3 years), Mac OS X (2 years), Windows 10 (1 year), Windows Server 2008 (1 year), Driver, Driving, Microsoft Word, Microsoft Office, Help Desk, Desktop Support, Active Directory, Customer Service Skills, Customer Service Links https://www.linkedin.com/pub/james-meredith/44/145/224