Senior IT Security & Compliance Specialist Senior <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> &amp; Compliance Specialist Technology Enabler | IT Leader | Information Security Research Triangle Park, NC * Accomplished IT leader offering over 25 years of rich career experience achieving established goals and exceeding customer expectations.    * Agile and creative thinker with strong problem-solving skills, high-level IT acumen, employee supervision successes, and proven career track record.    * Master of Science in Information Technology (MSIT); Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior IT Security & Compliance Specialist SAS Institute - Cary, NC October 2017 to Present * Serve in a consultative role as a trusted adviser for key compliance activities including, IT policy and standards SME, Supplier Security Qualification for third-party relationships, risk assessments, control gap analysis, Security Incident Response Team and contract reviews for security compliance.    * Lead compliance program/project initiatives, audits and benchmarking of security policies against best practices and standards, which may include ISO 27001, FISMA, IRS 1075, NIST 800-53, and other NIST special publications.    * Participate in security investigations and compliance reviews as required by customer requirements or internal or external audits.    * Assist with analysis, documentation, and training of remediation actions in response to risk assessment and audit findings.    * Review security and audit contract terms and ensure compliance to current policies and processes.    * Research, identify and recommend changes and security practices to enhance or streamline information security procedures and improve efficiencies.    * Communicate, facilitate, present, and train both technical and non-technical small and large audiences, regarding security requirements, procedures, and topics. Senior Network Security Engineer Franklin American Mortgage Company - Franklin, TN July 2017 to September 2017 Managed Palo Alto Firewalls, Qualys Vulnerability Management, and IBM QRadar SIEM. Senior IT Audit Consultant LBMC Information Security - Brentwood, TN June 2016 to July 2017 Evaluated compliance with various industry standards and security regulations including HIPAA, HITRUST, FISMA, National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), FedRAMP, ISO/IEC 27001, Control Objectives for Information and Related Technology (COBIT), PCI Data Security Standards (PCI-DSS), Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX), and Service Organization Control (SOC). Provided a full suite of GRC (Governance, Risk Management, Compliance) consulting and advisory professional services. Senior Director of Support Services Knowledge Elements, Inc - Franklin, TN May 2012 to August 2015 Responsible for overall operations management of the business systems, the user experience, technology development life cycle, system testing (based on scrum team development model) client relations, support and training.    * Supported online learning platform in 24x7 model with one-and-done emphasis.    * Improved application functionality and stability based on continuous analysis of customer feedback and support requests, which resulted in a 20% decrease of support tickets in the first 18 months.    * Managed all technology projects including content management, curriculum quality assurance, and training for course designers. Director of Membership Administrative Services, Enrollment Operations HealthSpring, Inc - Nashville, TN June 2011 to April 2012 Coached the Membership Administrative Services Support Team to enable successful enrollment operations and fulfillment of all member letters and ID cards.    * Supported growth initiatives and served as a liaison with IT partners to facilitate system integration and conversion efforts.    * Ensured that all member fulfillment materials met or exceeded strict quality standards and reached members in the timeframes set forth by CMS. Director of Operations Improved Healthcare Solutions LLC - Charlotte, NC December 2010 to May 2011 * Supported implementation of new accounts.    * Recommended people/process/technology improvements to increase efficiency (continuous improvement).    * Partnered with team leads and supervisors to manage floor operations.    * Managed technology infrastructure, including remote desktop servers, thin clients, and VoIP phone system. Implementation Account Manager Onlife Health, Inc - Franklin, TN June 2009 to July 2010 Recruited to implement and manage accounts, spearhead account operation activities, and prepare outcomes and other metrics reports for clients. Supported senior level decision making efforts by providing information relative to ROI and participation rates during "portfolio review" type presentations. Supervised 1 implementation manager.    * Improved product stability and sales success by implementing 3 beta clients on beta testing portal to measure feedback received as basis for further product enhancements.    * Delivered customer satisfaction ratings of 95%+ while retaining customers year-over-year in a highly competitive marketplace.    * Supported process improvement efforts by testing new reports, providing valuable recommendations, and facilitating online resources utilization training. Director, Health Plan Data Management and Claim Operations MedSolutions, Inc - Franklin, TN May 2007 to July 2008 Embraced challenging opportunity to develop and coach cross-functional team of 40+ employees, streamline operations and train on effective use of front-end authorization tool (UI) and new claims system, and oversee Health Plan Data Management to ensure accuracy and validity of data against health plan membership and provider data. Managed budget of $1 million, 4 direct reports and 40 indirect reports.    * Slashed claim turnaround 82% (to 6 days from 35+ days) while rejuvenating deteriorated relationships with providers by reorganizing claims department structure and implementing streamlined claim processing protocol eliminating multiple staff interaction and hand-offs.    * Decreased daily interface rejection errors from 11% to 3% by steering numerous process improvement efforts related to electronic authorization transfer to clients.    * Drove workflow and collaboration synergies to deliver higher monthly claim A/R collections while improving claim processing and customer service levels through cross-training staff and reorganization.    * Reduced workforce 30+ FTEs by developing and deploying effective operational and process improvements. Assistant Director, Operations and Vendor Management (Business Project Senior Specialist) CIGNA Healthcare - Franklin, TN October 2000 to April 2007 Earned promotions from Assistant Director of Information Management and Technology (Southeast Region) and Transformation Manager to reduce pended claim volumes in collaboration with regional health plans from Tennessee to Georgia to Florida by driving operational improvements using root cause analysis. Participated as key member on various national projects as subject matter expert for Central Provider File (CPF) and pended claims as well as national projects focused on improving claim payment accuracy.    * Catalyst in improving contract loading and pended claims processing by partnering with business process outsourcer, Accenture, to create workflows for implementation in Philippines in addition to facilitating pended claims training instrumental in immediately improving KPI results.    * Improved claims payment accuracy and cut claims pending volumes as key team participant challenged with gathering requirements, studying impacts, and testing improvements to Central Provider File (CPF).    * Delivered improvements in claims processing efficiency and turnaround time by forming a pended claims user group comprised of key contacts from claim processing centers and pended claim teams across the nation. Centralized P&Ps and "tips and tricks" on SharePoint site dedicated to effective pended claims processing. Conducted national teleconference calls with site users to share best practices and address issues. Manager, Pharmacy Systems Implementation McKessonHBOC - Durham, NC January 1999 to June 2000 Recruited to implement outpatient pharmacy automation instrumental in improving workflows and efficiency in prescription order fulfillment.    * Teamed with institutional sales directors to help close deals and educate potential customers on system benefits and implementation methods.     * Worked with various Department of Defense customers, such as MacDill AFB, Langley AFB, Fort Bragg (Womack AMC), and the Pentagon.     * Conducted project reviews from $100,000 to $3 million and managed direct report team of 2 installers, 2 application engineers, and 1 project coordinator. Sr. Business Analyst (Corporate Information Systems) GlaxoWellcome Inc. 1998 to 1998 * Provided production application support and consulting for corporate business units, which included coding and performing quality assurance on PL/SQL on Oracle databases.    * Assisted with YEAR-2000 corporate initiatives with the creation of application test scripts.    * Served in a business analyst role, translating business needs into technology enhancements, interfaces, and new application development requirements utilizing SDLC methodology. IT Analyst, Human Resources (Occupational Health Services) GlaxoWellcome Inc. 1996 to 1997 * Managed support, maintenance, development, and training deliverables of the occupational health information system (OHIS) EMR for Occupational Health Services (OHS) employees and contractors.    * Planned and developed training curriculum and led roll-out of new OHIS. IT Administrator, Human Resources (Occupational Health Services) GlaxoWellcome Inc. 1994 to 1996 * Provided first-level support for EMR system and developed ad-hoc reports per requests.    * Responsible for data interfaces with other systems and training new users. Education Master of Science in Information Technology (concentration Information Security) Lipscomb University - Nashville, TN August 2015 to September 2016 Bachelor of Science in Business Administration (concentration Computer Information Systems) Appalachian State University - Boone, NC January 1991 to May 1994 Skills Systems Administration (10+ years), Customer Support (10+ years), Hardware & Software Setup and Configuration (10+ years), Technical Training (10+ years), Team Leadership (8 years), Claim Operations (6 years), Client Relationship Management (8 years), Management (10+ years), IT Audit (3 years), Information Security, Nist, Cissp Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/mdwaters Awards Vice President Gore's “Hammer Award” 2000-06 Successful implementation of revolutionary and patented Pharmacy 2000™ software and AutoScript III® robotic filling devices. Our team implemented this pill dispensing automation system for Department of Defense accounts, including at MacDill AFB for the base pharmacy. We were awarded the Hammer Award by the Undersecretary of the Navy for outstanding work and contributing to a more efficient government.    This system changed the way prescriptions were dispensed by imaging the prescription at intake, automating the dispensing and counting of pills, and combined the prescription image and pill image for verification by pharmacists. Certifications/Licenses Six Sigma - Yellow Belt 2005 to Present CISSP - Certified Information Systems Security Professional February 2017 to Present Splunk Certified User Present Cert-254291 Assessments Email — Expert April 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively compose and organize email messages. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/c-e1l31-nnwi6iqt Technical Support — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/p6gqmbfqcxc3h5uy Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Groups ISSA (Information Systems Security Assoc.) August 2015 to Present Middle Tennessee Chapter (https://issa-midtn.org/) InfraGard - Infrastructure Protection & Cybersecurity October 2011 to Present InfraGard is a partnership between the FBI and the private sector. It is an association of persons who represent businesses, academic institutions, state and local law enforcement agencies, and other participants dedicated to sharing information and intelligence to prevent hostile acts against the U.S. Publications The Current State of Cyber Insurance as a Risk Transference Option https://www.researchgate.net/publication/290390997_The_Current_State_of_Cyber_Insurance_as_a_Risk_Transference_Option 2015-12 This paper is intended to provide an executive briefing on the current state of cyber insurance in the U.S. to help make some sense of this fast-growing insurance market. Evaluation of Identity & Access Management (IAM) as a Cloud Service (IDaaS) https://www.researchgate.net/publication/311450332_Evaluation_of_IAM_as_a_Cloud_Service 2016-09 An exploration into Identity & Access Management (IAM) as a Cloud Service, also known as Identity as a Service (IDaaS). We will look at what it is, why it is needed, how IAM in the cloud differs from traditional on premise IAM, and core features needed in a robust cloud IAM solution. I will also present a framework for evaluating cloud IAM providers and available options, associated challenges and benefits, as well as future work needed for cloud IAM to continue to gain acceptance and become a trusted and secure service offering. Additional Information SKILLS - TECHNOLOGICAL INVENTORY  Operating Systems: Windows, Mac OS X, Ubuntu (Linux)    Applications: Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Access, Visio, Project), VirtualBox, VMware, Microsoft Teams and Planner    Networking: TCP/UDP, DNS, DHCP, SMTP/POP, SNMP, FTP, SSH, SFTP, VPN, NAS, OSI Reference Model    Data Security: anti-virus, malware, spyware, ransomware, rootkits, advanced persistent threat (APT), web content filtering, firewall, network connection monitoring, intrusion detection, Zenmap, Wireshark    Server Administration: Microsoft Windows Server, Microsoft Exchange, Microsoft SharePoint, Active Directory, Group Policy Administration, Remote Desktop, Apache, WordPress    Other: SaaS, Cloud Solutions (Microsoft Office 365), Amazon Web Services (AWS), New Relic, LDRPS (BCP/DR), JIRA, Confluence, ServiceNow