IT Cyber Security Manager - Project Manager <span class="hl">IT</span> Cyber <span class="hl">Security</span> Manager - Project Manager IT Cyber Security Manager - Project Manager - Dunbar Technology Consulting, LLC Silver Spring, MD Innovative and solutions-driven professional with over 20 years of experience in supporting major projects involving integration initiatives, cyber- security and user-acceptance testing. Specific expertise in commercial banking and retail credit card operations. An accomplished and recognized Information Technology ( IT) Professional with a keen sense of problem-solving and analytical reasoning. A collaborative bridge-builder with proven success in building relationships among various business lines, vendors and support teams to drive and reach collaborative success. Motivated teambuilder and out-of-the-box solutions architect. Committed to delivering top-notch technical assistance and customer service to numerous clienteles while consistently remaining an effective leader and strong technical/ analytical partner. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Cyber Security Manager - Project Manager Dunbar Technology Consulting, LLC January 2018 to Present • Responsible for developing cybersecurity policies and training programs across the Holy Cross educational system of the Arch Diocese.  • Spearheaded, configured and upheld overall responsibility for complete network upgrade to Cisco Meraki LAN and WAN with respective cyber- security enhancements in support of network configurations and enhancements.  • Created and implemented new IT policies in line with sound industry best practices for IT governance.  • Identified and remediated cyber risks and possible attack vectors (Phishing, Malware, etc.)  • Installed and configured Cisco NGFW, configure content filtering, configure firewall rules with snort  • Respond to IDS alerts and research alerts.  • Manually remove malware and virus' when necessary. Configure polices on Sophos endpoint security  • Evaluating AlienVault & Splunk to create a normalized baseline and Tenable to hunt for network and data anomalies  • Manage the with upper management  • Provide security assessment and provide input on day to day cyber and IT operations to upper management  • Developed a mitigation plan to setup a defensive posture for the IT infrastructure.  • Lead Project Manager for infrastructure refresh initiative overseeing the installation of private cloud platforms across the educational center and associated subsidiaries.  • Implemented appropriate governance frameworks such as HIPAA and SAFE KIDS Act for educational teams.  • Implemented and manage private cloud in Microsoft Hypervisor environment.  • Designing Azure Cloud solution for as "cloud site" and off-site backup.  • Manage Office 365 and GSuite Administration.  • Respond and or oversee the mitigation of all cyber security incidents  • Over saw Office 365 migration from MS Exchange to Go Daddy cloud salutation the TechSoup's cloud  • Review technology contacts and surveys.  • Advise senior management on current threats and mitigation of self- identified risks  • Manage 3rd party technology relationship  • Risk Management - Self identify issues and formulate an action plan for resolution  • Daft MS Visio diagrams for network and infrastructure purposes  • Use Kaseya for remote management CISCO Cyber Security Manager CISCO SYSTEMS May 2016 to April 2017 • Stood up and managed a team of 9 multi-lingual cyber- security research engineers, 2 python developers and 2 analytics team leads  • Responsible for the strategic deployment of the security data operations team with regards to web site categorization and email classification such as SPAM, Ham, and Malware.  • Provided critical MIS reporting to determine the strategic approach used for providing business operational support across multiple time zones to stakeholders and VIP clients.  • Oversaw leadership and department updates via presentations to senior management ensuring to manage allocated IT budgets, CAPEX, OPEX and other IT Cost Center expenditures.  • Ensured the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the organization's information assets were adequately protected and that information remained consistent with information risk management policies that were compliant with the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST).  • Oversaw the adherence and optimization of the Risk Management Framework in accordance with NIST Special Publication(s) (SP) 800-XX, including categorization, control selection, control implementation, control assessment, and authorization.  • Maintained Plan of Action and Milestones (PO&AMs) and supports remediation activities, including any audit findings related to the IT organization and information security operations.  • Defined roles and responsibilities for project members, managed project activities, budgets and priorities, and provided performance reviews and development for all information security team members.  • Executed technical and policy decisions that affect corporate security posture.  • Managed the SLA's and ticket response on 24/5 staff Security Project Manager/Help Desk -Asset Manager LASERSHIP - Herndon, VA February 2016 to May 2016 • Managed a total of 12 helpdesk technicians and assets management/mobile support techs and three remote technicians located in the Mid-West.  • Supported the day to day IT operations with regards to the end user experience with laptops, PC, mobile, and telephone devices.  • Upheld responsibility for organization's IT assets inventory program and distribution across departments and resources.  • Oversaw the Support Services Desk and managed the 24x7 IT support of the organization.  • Managed the incident management process for all pertinent major outages and issues.  • Reviewed all cyber threat cases and enacted emergency response plans for mitigation and counteractions.  • Managed Windows 2012 support environment including intricate server monitoring initiatives  • Project manager for supporting physical and cyber security for remote locations and upgrades  • Managed the queue process within support and assessment management protocols.  • Managed security process with regards to infected machines - malware, virus, and ransom ware.  • Used PTRG monitor the server environment  • Managed the support ticket process Cyber Security Support Engineering Manager HEXIS CYBER SOLUTIONS - Hanover, MD October 2013 to January 2016 • Managed the Tier 1 &2 client cyber security support team for SIEM product HawkEyeG and Sensage AP big data solution mid and enterprise level products in a Linux CentOS and Red Hat environment  • Oversaw application deployment and installation across the organization.  • Managed customer escalation calls as escalation remediator and ensured strong CSAT advantage on resolutions 24/7  • Developed policy and procedures for managing defects and customer expectations in accordance with industry best practices.  • Replicated product issues which involved Linux CentOS and Postgres databases for re-engineering remediations and best practice capture management.  • Acted as lead consultant on all IT support projects for external facing enterprise clients with high complexities.  • Implemented and managed the incident management process across the organization and oversaw all ITSM efforts.  • Created and deployed the incident response IT management desk in support of Tier 1 and Tier 2 operations.  • Supported enterprise deployments of software patches and relevant security enhancements.  • Managed deployed Apache web server for big data and SIEM installations  • Oversaw, managed and installed all Java JRE and JDK on application servers across data centers.  • Upheld overall responsibility for mentoring junior personnel, developing strong IT training programs.  • Conducted defect review calls, Manage the defect ticketing process, Supported cyberwarfare, security and big data product  • Helped to establish and support security operations teams Lead Systems Engineer\Assistant Project Manager June 2013 to October 2013 • Tier III support for internal Java and web application team  • System Administrator Linux (Ubuntu)  • Apache Web administration in AWS  • MySQL & MS SQL Server 2012 DBA,  • Amazon Web Services Administrator development environment. EC2, SharePoint Farm Assistant Vice President of Technology Incident Management RBS CITIZENS N.A - East Providence, RI March 2010 to June 2013 • Escalated (when necessary) high impact incidents to senior management and support business lines during major incidents and outages that were either outside of the SLA's or could lead to reputational damage  • Led NOC and SOC technical teams during all incident process including major outages, incidents, and cyber attacks  • Contribute to the development and improvement of global and regional incident management model and standards.  • Spearheaded the recovery efforts during natural disaster  • Collaborated with problem management and change management teams to communicate root cause analysis and implemented break fix and recovery plans  • On call 24/7  • Worked closely with network and security operation center and business incident management team  • Authored root cause analysis, and reviewed preventive measures Assistant Vice President of IT Operational Support RBS CITIZENS N.A - Bridgeport, CT April 2004 to May 2010 Managed two separate business teams (UAT and Help Desk) totaling 14 direct reports within the departments.  • Implemented technology governance framework and authored policy and procedures for RBS UK & RBS US Citizens' Card operations  • Incident manager for all major outages and incidents for U.S Credit Card Operations  • Managed all IT assurance issues, including insider threat, data breaches,  • Provided operational support for RBS India, and worked with the UK help desk to resolve vendor performance related issues and provided US policies & reporting packages that I developed that were instrumental in resolving said issues and used as a strategic model of success for credit card operations within the UK and US  • Executed Microsoft Server engineer duties on Verint and Witness servers  • Hands on Microsoft Active Directory  • Smart Hands Cisco 3600 enterprises routers for upgrades and troubleshooting. FastEthernet network  • Provided sign-offs on all major projects over $2 million dollars  • Managed or provided project management assistance on several high-profile initiatives including data protection, network encryption, file approval processes, call center infrastructure upgrades  • Ensured the U.S Cards technology infrastructure was PCI complement and ensured end to end encryption was in place  • Mitigate self-identified risk issues such as a file approval-release process and Project Manager VRU/IVR corrective initiative which saved almost $25,000 a month on outsourced fraud call center support.  • Designed and developed and disturbed monthly, quarterly, and annual performance SLA report packages  • Respond to Nessus scans and remediated any issues that were detected  • Authored test plans and case for major enterprise initiatives, such as CRM implementation & continuous integration, system integration, firewall testing, and network failover  • Provided Tier 1 and II support for MQ messaging included verification of down channels and troubleshooting Java networking code  • Review and selected MQ data packets coded in Java for use on customer face products.  • Senior member of the Change Management and Problem Management Team Dialer/Management Information System's Analyst PEOPLES BANK 2001 to 2004 • Monitored an Avaya predictive dialer and ran extracts from the internal database to MS Access for performance reports.  • Developed call strategies from performance reports and designed dialer jobs as well as manage the delinquency reporting for the call center to mitigate charge offs.  • Developed ad-hoc reports; performed some UNIX programming; Identified date elements for tables within the data warehouse. Served as a Subject Matter Expert (SME) in identifying data element for SAS driven reports.    MILITARY EXPERIENCE & AWARDS Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology Colorado Technical University 2018 Associate of Science in Information Technology Colorado Technical University 2009 Certificate in Project Management Villanova University 2008 Certificate in Green Belt Six Sigma Villanova University 2008 Skills Information Security, Cyber Security, Siem, Network Security, Nist