Instructor - Cybersecurity Instructor - Cybersecurity Instructor - Cybersecurity - Tarrant County College Roanoke, TX Work Experience Instructor - Cybersecurity Tarrant County College - Fort Worth, TX May 2019 to Present • Teach at the master's level in Information Technology topics including: Cybersecurity, Digital Forensics, Information Sciences  • Work collaboratively and successfully with colleagues and other university faculty members  • Respond to student questions on a timely basis based on school standards  • Provide necessary documentation for students  • Provide academic advising and mentoring  • Ensure course and program learning outcomes are achieved as defined by the syllabus  • Maintain assigned "office" hours; be available to students as needed  • Participate in and provide feedback to institutional committees and reporting  • Work with program chair and other appropriate groups on retention activities  • Assist with new student registration and orientation  • Serves as a faculty advisor for student clubs  • Assist director of education in program evaluation, creation, and planning  • Other duties as may be assigned Adjunct Instructor - Online Computer Information Systems Eastern Gateway Community College - Steubenville, OH July 2018 to Present • Prepares for and teaches classes as assigned. Making good use of class time and keeping all classes for the scheduled period.  • Participate in the development of curriculum.  • Develops appropriate grading policies and methods of student assessment to monitor and communicate academic progress.  • Provides full information to students regarding course syllabi, objectives, text, and materials required for the courses taught.  • Maintains accurate records of student attendance and academic progress.  • Recognizes individual differences in the classroom, and adapts instructional techniques accordingly.  • Assists students with academic difficulties including being available for consultation outside of class.  • Encourages and motivates students in a positive/professional manner to do their best.  • Refers students to appropriate staff, office or resource person for information, guidance, financial assistance, placement, etc.  • Enforces regulations in the school catalog and student handbook.  • Submits academic information such as course syllabi, final grade reports, grade changes, and mid-term deficiency grades on time to the appropriate person (registrar, dean, chairperson, etc.) utilizing the institution's reporting procedures.  • Attends scheduled faculty and department meetings.  • Uses college equipment and property appropriately and have students do the same. Reports broken or damaged equipment to the college office immediately.  • Abides by all accrediting council, state, federal and institutional policies and procedures, rules and laws.  • Cooperate with part-time and full-time faculty, Program Directors, Deans, Vice President, Academic Affairs, and other college/department support staff in carrying out the instructional programs and the educational mission and goals of the college. Adjunct Instructor - Computer Forensics/Information Security - AIU Online American Intercontinental University - Schaumburg, IL August 2017 to Present • Teach all assigned courses while suitably challenging, engaging, serving and communicating with students to encourage their participation and learning progress.  • Where required, track student attendance  • Clearly document student progress while ensuring to provide a fair assessment for all assignments  • Complete grade books, final grade sheets, learning assessments and final exam assessments on a timely basis  • Respond to student questions on a timely basis based on school standards  • Provide necessary documentation for students  • Provide academic advising and mentoring  • Ensure course and program learning outcomes are achieved as defined by the syllabus  • Maintain assigned "office" hours; be available to students as needed  • Participate in and provide feedback to institutional committees and reporting  • Work with program chair and other appropriate groups on retention activities  • Assist with new student registration and orientation  • Serves as a faculty advisor for student clubs  • Assist director of education in program evaluation and planning  • Complete and maintain an Individual Development Plan/Summary  • Attend regularly scheduled in-services and content/discipline specific development activities  • Complete annual appraisal with direct academic advisor  • Responsible to maintain credentials as required by accrediting councils/agencies  • Engage in professional development as required by accrediting councils/agencies and/or the SBU/school GM Financial CSIRT - Arlington, TX February 2016 to Present • GM Financial's International Incident Response management and investigation of data breaches  • Effectively analyze, scope, and escalate GM Financial's International information security incidents and assist in the remediation procedure as well as follow up.  • Remain aware of current IT threats and IT Security trends from an international IR perspective via the creation of a Threat Catalog.  • Test and remediate the International GM Financial IR program.  • GM Financial's International IR leader and point of contact.  • Manages remediation and recovery processes during International IR.  • Maintain GM Financials' International IR plan and procedural documents as living documents  • Act as a Subject Matter Expert (SME) for GM Financial's International incident response  • Program management of GM Financial's Threat Catalog and Threat Intelligence for the threat landscape  • Conducts GM Financial's DLP and e-discovery cases and email evidence files searching and exporting and production  • Program management of GM Financial's International Incident Response Tabletops  • Creates GM Financial's International IT policies and procedures and International Incident Response Plan  • Program management of Phishing Assessments for GM Financial's International Security Awareness  • Investigates GM Financial's International policy infringements and or crimes via EnCase Enterprise Forensics  • GM Financials' International Incident Response Team focus on incident management  • Identify, design, and develop new methods for incident detection and intelligence collection of anomalous behavior, system and network patterns, and potential breaches  • Perform threat and risk analysis to the company infrastructure; to facilitate effective incident response, and the creation of new security opportunities  • Develop historical threat activity through aggregation, correlation and trending to predict future threats  • Perform as the Subject Matter Expert for current and emerging threats, and serve as a liaison between Cyber Defense and the IT Security engineering and operations teams  • Establish a threat modeling methodology to identify, classify, prioritize and report on enterprise threats using a structured approach  • Cooperate with internal and external intelligence agencies to further information sharing, foster an open dialog, collaborate on emerging security threats, and develop a trusted reputation in the community  • Deliver information in formal reports, presentations, or desk-level briefings GM Financial NOC - Arlington, TX February 2016 to Present • GM Financial's International Incident Response management and investigation of data breaches  • Effectively analyze, scope, and escalate GM Financial's International information security incidents and assist in the remediation procedure as well as follow up.  • Remain aware of current IT threats and IT Security trends from an international IR perspective via the creation of a Threat Catalog and Threat Tool Matrix  • Test and remediate the International GM Financial IR program.  • GM Financial's International IR leader and point of contact.  • Manages remediation and recovery processes during International IR.  • Maintain GM Financial's International IR plan and procedural documents as living documents  • Act as a Subject Matter Expert (SME) for GM Financial's International incident response  • Program management of GM Financial's Threat Catalog and Threat Intelligence for the threat landscape  • Conducts GM Financial's DLP and e-discovery cases and email evidence files searching and exporting and production  • Program management of GM Financial's International Incident Response Tabletops  • Creates GM Financial's International IT policies and procedures and International Incident Response Plan  • Program management of Phishing Assessments for GM Financial's International Security Awareness  • Investigates GM Financial's International policy infringements and or crimes via EnCase Enterprise Forensics Sr. Subject Matter Expert on Cyber Security & IT Western Governors University - Salt Lake City, UT December 2015 to Present • Completing all scoring in assigned disciplines of assignments  • Providing robust feedback for students on every scoring event  • Assisting as a subject matter expert in the development and maintenance of assessments  • Fluent use of educational technological platform and common office software packages  • Communicate at a high level in writing skills  • Evaluate Cybersecurity, cyber defense, cyber law, cyber policy, information security, and vulnerability essays Alumni Advisory Board Member Purdue University - Davenport, IA March 2012 to Present Executive Committee-Alumni Chair (GITA)  Cybersecurity Columnist for Graduates of Information Technology (GITA)  (Articles on Computer Forensics/Cyber Security/Malware Analysis/Penetration Testing/EnCase Admin)  Davenport, IA 52803 Mar/2012-Present Sr. Incident Response Analyst Solutionary - Omaha, NE July 2015 to December 2015 Compromise Assessments, Incident Response Team Building, Tabletop Demonstrations, Forensics)  Omaha, NE 68114 Jul/2015-Dec/2015    • Examine and improve existing processes and procedures in a quick and efficient manner for several Fortune 500 companies IR programs. Identify best practices within that program which should be emulated, and address any resulting gaps in policies, procedures and technology  • Investigate data breaches analyzing packet captures, log analysis, memory captures, event traffic  • Effectively analyze, scope, and escalate information security incidents and assist in the remediation procedure as well as follow up. Remain aware of current IT threats and IT Security trends from an IR perspective.  • IR leader and point of contact. Manages remediation and recovery processes during IR.  • Maintain IR plan and procedure documents as living documents  • Act as a Subject Matter Expert (SME) for incident response and forensics  • Memory forensics (Volatility, Mandiant) System forensics (Event Viewer, EnCase) Network forensics (Network Miner, Wireshark) Sr. State Information Cyber Security Operations Engineer-Head ADHS Office of Systems & Technology - Little Rock, AR December 2013 to July 2015 of Forensiscs  (Computer Forensics/ Incident Response/Malware Analysis/EnCase Administrator)  Little Rock, AR 72203 Dec/2013-Jul/2015    • Head of Computer Forensics Dept. encompassing all things e-discovery, forensics, and cyber investigations  • Instrumental in implementation of protocols adhering IT Security policies for AR DHS.  • Helped design and implement State of Arkansas DHS Computer Forensics program.  • Help implement and classify security policies.  • Designed hardware computer security configurations for the state of AR DHS security dept.  • Created BIOS Standardization Policy for State AR DHS computer hardening infrastructure.  • Created BIOS Standardization Policy for State AR DHS server hardening infrastructure.  • Monitored and maintained state network as incident response team member for the State of AR DHS OST  • Conducted e-discovery cases and email evidence files searching and exporting and production  • Investigates breaches and reverse engineers the threats to analyze intent, scope, and origin of threat.  • Documents computer security and emergency measures policies, procedures, and tests.  • Trains users and promotes security awareness to ensure system security and to improve network efficiency.  • Investigates all computer related policy infringements and or crimes via EnCase Enterprise software  • Integral member of Incident Response Team focus on forensics Systems Administrator/ IT Specialist Army National Guard/DoD-Camp Robinson - North Little Rock, AR October 2012 to December 2013 • Prepare workflow charts and diagrams to specify in detail operations to be perform by users  • Maintain Network Security and User/Client Security in a MOSS (SharePoint) environment  • Consult with dept. managers to develop system solutions consistent with organizational objectives  • Responsible for user account maintenance and active directory through VMware clients  • Installed, configured and distributed server-based hardware  • Managed routine backup and restore servers and desktops in a ESX Enterprise environment  • Responsible for OS and desktop software installation and maintenance and network troubleshooting  • Support over 7,400 users in an enterprise environment. Computer Desktop Support/Network Analyst Unisys - Little Rock, AR January 2009 to October 2012 • Travel to consumer businesses and government bases to provide direct technical support to end users.  • Install new computers, hardware, software, and peripherals managing through.Net Administration  • Communicate with other departments to report and resolve software, hardware, and operations issues  • Plan and prepare technical reports, memoranda, and instructional manuals.  • Reconfigure existing systems to accommodate additional components of VSphereL  • Troubleshoot all areas of computer functioning: break fix, repair or upgrade as needed. IT Security Manager Millennium Systems & Electronics - Jacksonville, AR January 2003 to January 2009 • Maintain knowledge of hardware, software and network security technology performed efficiently  • Worked efficiently with other people of the team and also have the ability to work independently  • Able to put a keen eye on each detail and work efficiently to meet deadlines  • Self-motivated and organized, possess excellent communication both oral and written  • Ability and willingness to work for long working hours  • Sound knowledge of Computer Science, Math and Science  • Work with configuration management, network performance management  • Monitor network traffic to identify problems and make recommendations with NMS monitoring tools Instructor of Information Security ITT Technical Institute - Little Rock, AR March 2003 to April 2007 • Drafted examination papers and evaluated student's assignments and classwork  • Maintained records of student's progress  • Assisted in curriculum revision and academic planning activities  • Addressed teaching and research issues  • Teach Cybersecurity courses such as: Ethical Hacking, Forensics, Cybersecurity, Virtual Machines, and, Global Investigations.  • Teach Networking courses such as: Operating Systems CCNA and Cloud Computing Basics.  • Assume a lead role in developing and implementing Certificate courses in Cybersecurity and cloud computing basics. Network Security Engineer Millennium Systems & Electronics - Jacksonville, AR April 1999 to January 2003 • Ability to architect LAN/WAN design for appropriate communications and security  • Switch, Router, and firewall installation, setup, and configuration.  • Firewall rule definition, configuration, and troubleshooting  • Responsible for network management including network performance tuning security.  • Planned and designed organization LAN network expansion  • Upgraded and configured Microsoft Windows Server and installed network routers and firewalls  • Worked with management to develop security policies and conduct network system security auditing  • Ran Checkpoint Firewalls Instructor of Computer Science /SME Arkansas College of Technology - Little Rock, AR July 1995 to August 2000 • Assisted with the planning and execution of tech-based research projects.  • Developed detailed lesson plans for each class and implemented new programs.  • Worked extensively with students by offering individual assistance as needed.  • Participated in curriculum planning decisions.  • Provided instruction in the use of basic computer components and systems.  • Evaluated current course plans and sought approval for updates as necessary.  • Prepared assessments of student performances and assigned grades to completed work.  • Attended periodic seminars and conferences to remain updated on technology trends.  • Implemented an updated grading system and provided feedback to each student.  • Provided instruction on various hardware and software programs.  • Worked with colleagues to update teaching modules.  • Oversaw student progress with class projects.  • Provided technical support to students. Owner KM Enterprises - Little Rock, AR January 1990 to April 1998 • Maintain knowledge of hardware, software installation, and network security technology efficiently  • Worked efficiently while managing employees of the team possess the ability to multitask  • Installed statewide high-speed internet services and worked efficiently to meet installation deadlines  • Self-motivated possess excellent organizational skills while managing several executive level contracts  • Managed several contracts while holding position of CIO as owner/operator Education Doctor of Information Technology in Education by the National Security Agency Walden University October 2016 to December 2019 Master of Science in Information Systems Management in Education by the National Security Agency Walden University November 2016 DHS in general National Emergency Response & Rescue Training Center 2015 Master of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology Purdue University October 2014 Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology Purdue University March 2012 Associates of Applied Science in Computer Engineering Arkansas College of Technology June 1995 Skills SECURITY, ENCASE, FTK, METASPLOIT, NEXPOSE, SNORT, WIRESHARK, GHOST, INTRUSION, CISCO, INCIDENT RESPONSE, LINUX, LINUX/UNIX, UNIX, SYMANTEC, JAVA, HTML, SQL, FORENSICS, INTRUSION DETECTION, Cyber Security, Information Security, Nist, Siem, Network Security Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Operating Systems:    • Windows XP  • Linux/Unix  • Windows Server 2003  • Windows 7  • Ghost Server    • Penetration Testing  • Incident Response  • Microsoft Office  • Project Management 2010    Applications:    • EnCase Computer Forensics  • FTK  • Forefront Identity Mgmt.  • Metasploit  • Java  • Nexpose  • HTML  • Intrusion Detection  • SQL  • Project Professional  • Symantec E-Discovery  • Ethereal Packet Analyzer    Security Applications:    • Bit 9 Carbon Black  • Metasploit  • Mandiant  • Volatility  • Wireshark  • McAfee  • SNORT  • Cisco