Director of Information Security and Assurance Director of Information <span class="hl">Security</span> and Assurance Director of Information Security and Assurance - Buckley Sandler LLP Ashburn, VA Strategic information security leader with 18 years of experience focusing on Information Security, Risk Management, Governance, and Compliance. Successful in building information security and IT risk management programs from inception. Fostered paradigm shifts in Legal, Financial Services, and Higher Education verticals information instilling a security mindset across all levels of the organizations significantly improving the security posture of those organizations. Proven track record leveraging ISO27001, NIST and FISMA. Work Experience Director of Information Security and Assurance Buckley Sandler LLP - Washington, DC September 2015 to Present Position summary: Setting the strategic vision in information security for a  leading law firm focused on the Financial Services industry. Leveraging  information security as a business enabler to meet and exceed our clients'  expectations. Developing, maintaining and improving the Firm's Information  Security Program, Vendor Risk Management Program, Security Incident  Response Program. Performing internal audits of security controls to ensure  Compliance to Firm policies. Managing Client and vendor risk assessments.  Selecting, implementing and managing security technology to support the  Firm's business requirements. Proving and improving the Firm's security  posture and controls in alignment with ISO 27001. Associate Director SNL Financial LP - Ashburn, VA April 2014 to September 2015 Position summary: Introduced, developed, and implemented an Information  Security Program leveraging the ISO 27002 control framework. Responsible for all information security across an international financial services  organization spanning 25 offices in 10 countries. Heavily focused on program  development, implementation and improvement. Responsible for vulnerability and patch management, vendor and IT risk management, policy and framework development, security awareness, mobility management, incident  response, and compliance. IT Security Manager Cooley LLP - Reston, VA September 2011 to January 2014 Position summary: Created an Information Security program from inception to implementation. Accountable for all information security aspects of an international law firm spanning 11 US offices, 2 US datacenters and 1 office in China. Created and implemented an IT Risk Management program from inception. Conducted risk assessments on all technology, vendors, and SaaS  solutions the organization was considering and provided executive level  reports and presentations regarding findings and recommendations.  Managed all compliance efforts for organization. Managed all information  security related projects. Managed Vulnerability and Patch Management  program. Created and managed incident response program from inception.  Created and formalized INFOSEC policies, processes, and procedures.  Recommend, implement, and manage technical controls to protect Firm  information assets. Developed organization-wide Security Awareness  program. Build team of INFOSEC professionals to monitor and improve the effectiveness of the Information Security Program. Senior Risk and Compliance Analyst The George Washington University - Ashburn, VA November 2007 to September 2011 Position summary: Created, implemented, and managed an application  security program leveraging NIST and FISMA standards and framework.  Managed security aspects of all division projects through cross-functional  collaboration. Worked extensively with ethical hackers to identify vulnerabilities and remediate them. Acted as a cross-functional liaison to ensure that all  enterprise information systems were architected and deployed securely.  Reviewed and recommended changes to University policies. Ensured university  was meeting all compliance requirements including but not limited to PCI,  FERPA, COPPA, HIPAA. Federal Security Engineer Check Point Software - Reston, VA January 2007 to November 2007 Position summary: Security sales engineer for all non-DOD Federal Agencies.  Interpreted customer needs to recommend, design, and implement security  technologies to meet the customer's needs. Conducted executive level  presentations to market emerging technologies and articulate product  roadmaps. Senior Internet Product Engineer Verizon Business - Ashburn, VA February 1997 to January 2007 Position summary: Team lead for the Managed Security Services  Installation team. Built, configured, and deployed over 400 firewalls.  Developed User Acceptance Testing procedures as needed. Was the escalation point for all Managed Security deployments. Trained new  staff. Education AAB Terra State Community College - Fremont, OH 1994 Skills SECURITY (10+ years), FIREWALLS (10+ years), INFORMATION SECURITY (10+ years), RISK MANAGEMENT (10+ years), TRADING (6 years), Cissp (10+ years), It Security (10+ years), Fisma (10+ years), Hippa (8 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/pub/jon-hanny-cissp-gslc/0/174/298 Certifications/Licenses CISSP Present CISM Present CRISC C|CISO Present Additional Information Key Skills  Information Security Program Development  HIPAA Compliance Program Development  ISO27001 Program Development  PCI  IT Risk Management  Vendor Risk Management  Policy Development  Security Auditing  Regulatory Compliance  Network & System Security  System Integration Planning  Secure Network Architectures  Executive Presentations    CERTIFIED CISO, CISM, CISSP, CRISC,  HIPAA COMPLIANCE OFFICER  Certified Leader in Information Security, Risk Management, & GRC  Strategic information security leader with 18 years of experience focusing on Information Security, Risk Management, Governance, and Compliance. Successful in building information security and IT risk management programs from inception. Fostered paradigm shifts in Legal, Financial Services, and Higher Education verticals information instilling a security mindset across all levels of the organizations significantly improving the security posture of those organizations. Proven track record leveraging ISO27001, NIST and FISMA.  Recent Successes  • Information Security Program Development: Developed an Information Security Program from inception to production. Implemented security technology to support security needs of the organization. Managed over 40 Client audits and remediation efforts over the past 3 years. Developed and managed Information Security Risk Management, Vulnerability and Patch Management, Incident Response, External Party Access, and Vendor Risk Management programs.  • ISO 27001: Developed information security program in alignment with ISO 27001/2 which has been verified and attested to by multiple external sources.  • Risk Management: Developed and implemented an IT risk management program based on the NIST 800-37 risk management framework. Developed and documented policies, processes, and procedures supporting the program. System categorization, data classification, risk assessment, POA&M's, remediation, residual risk reporting, and authorization recommendations.  • Policy: Crafted a suite of policies creating a framework that supports the ISO 27001/2 control objectives.  • Compliance: Developed and implemented HIPAA compliance program. Ensure that all enterprise systems are vetted through the IT Risk Management Program developed in accordance with the NIST risk management framework to meet ISO27001 requirements.    Technologies  Network Access Control  Firewalls  IDS/IPS  Web Filtering  External Party Access  Elevated Account Management  Mobile Device Management  Vulnerability Management  Web Application Scanners  Anti-Malware  GRC systems