Senior IT Security Analyst Senior <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Senior IT Security Analyst - Publix Super Markets Inc Tampa, FL Work Experience Senior IT Security Analyst Publix Super Markets Inc - Lakeland, FL December 2014 to Present • Performed daily monitoring of Security Incident and Event Management system. Including rule creation, tuning, validation, and development of knowledge base of incidents, event, and processes to work SIEM events.  • SME for IDS/IPS program, Configured and utilized Firepower IDS/IPS to ensure that corporate systems are secure from unauthorized use, viral infection, and other vulnerabilities that would compromise overall system security.  • Worked hand in hand with engineers to onboard Firepower as the main IDS/IPS at Publix in three different configurations for the protection of multiple environments within the Publix network.  • Established and implemented standards and procedures for multiple security appliances and the Investigation of alerts by Security Operations Team.  • Performed Computer Security Incident Response activities ensuring that proper protection or corrective measures have been taken when an incident/vulnerability has been discovered.  • Developed Dashboards used in Computer Security Incident Response activities.  • Mentored fellow associates by creating weekly team training events to improve skill sets across security skill sets.  • Composed multiple threat intelligence reports for distribution across Publix Information Systems.  • Managed the remediation of vulnerabilities derived from Threat Intelligence reports Lab System Builder Intellect Technical Solutions - Lakeland, FL September 2014 to December 2014 • IS Lab Builder for Publix Supermarkets,  • Responsible for Software and hardware installation and configuration  • Delivers problem determination and resolution for lab systems.  • Provides quality lab systems for development and testing. 1N271C Signals Intelligence Analyst Craftsman US Air Force 2006 to February 2014 • Training and Support Manager for the Expeditionary Access Operations Training and Support Branch Signals Intelligence Directorate, National Security Agency; mange, support and maintain accountability of computer and SIGINT equipment used in training of tactical cyber operators.  • Liaison Officer for multiple advance tactics course acted as bridge for student to instructors provided support for any non-training issues that came up.  • Supports Multiple Training Teams, training advance tactical Network operator skill sets to Joint Service members.  • Document travel budget for multiple training courses, generated all travel authorizations, ensured travel reimbursement forms were submitted.  • Established policy for management and security of assigned equipment.  • Analyze specification requirements for the replacement of computer network operations training equipment. Education Associate in Applied Science in Communication Applications Technology Community College of the Air Force June 2010 Bachelors of Science in Political Science Florida State University December 2005 Skills Security Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Rank: Staff Sergeant Certifications/Licenses Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) July 2019 to July 2022