Lead Information Technology Security Specialist Lead Information Technology <span class="hl">Security</span> Specialist Information Security Professional Jacksonville, FL I am an information technology professional with over 18 years of work experience and many years of formal education. For the last decade and a half, I have worked in IT and business operations, and more recently as a Leader in Information Security. The field of information technology security and business operations are more than just a job; this is my passion. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Information Technology Security Specialist Fidelity National Financial - Jacksonville, FL 2016 to Present • Responsible for managing a team specializing in incident response, red team, and forensics.  • Performed as the subject matter expert of incident response, red team, forensics.  • Create monthly reports to Executive and Board members on risks and threats to the company.  • Wrote security policy and procedures in accordance with network and security modernization.  • Manage a budget of $1 million dollars of cybersecurity technology. Chief Technology Officer (Pro Bono) DepartSmart 2014 to Present • Establish the organizations technical vision and align technology with business processes.  • Direct technological research by studying organization goals, strategies, and practice.  • Lead projects by coordinating resources and timetables. ADJUNCT PROFESSOR/TRAINING ROLES Virtual - Saint Joseph, MO 2013 to Present • Design and expand training courses based on the needs of the University.  • Conduct lectures relating to Information Technology over long-distance learning platforms.  • Grade student papers while providing constructive feedback. Principal Software Engineer Symantec - Herndon, VA 2015 to 2016 • Research current security features, vulnerabilities, remediation Linux, UNIX, and Windows.  • Create, produce, and create technical content relating to Information Security best practices.  • Implement and deploy information systems that simulate real world security vulnerabilities.  • Deploy Amazon Web Services (AWS) infrastructure to simulate security simulations. Technical Instructor George Mason University - Arlington, VA 2013 to 2016 • Instruct computer technology courses (CISSP, Certified Ethical Hacker).  • Create training materials (presentations, training book, audio, video).  • Answer student questions and provide support when needed. Information Security Senior Freddie Mac - Herndon, VA 2014 to 2015 Technical Trainer Secure Ninja - Arlington, VA 2007 to 2015 • Instruct computer technology certification courses (A+, Network+, Security+, and Computer Hacking Forensic Investigator) courses.  • Create training material, slides, and course outlines.  • Achieved a 98% student passing rate for certification exams. Senior Data & Systems Security Specialist Fannie Mae - Herndon, VA 2013 to 2014 Security Consultant FishNet Security - Herndon, VA 2013 to 2013 Senior Security Analyst CIAN Inc - Washington, DC 2012 to 2013 Technical Trainer Northern Virginia Community College - Arlington, VA 2010 to 2013 • Instruct adult learners to the fundamentals and theory of computer technology.  • Create teaching plans, slides, handouts, and exams for adult learners. Investigator III Fannie Mae - Herndon, VA 2008 to 2012 Senior IT Forensic Analyst Paradigm Solutions - Rosslyn, VA 2006 to 2008 Senior IT Security Analyst Mantech International Corporation - Rosslyn, VA 2005 to 2006 Information Technology Specialist United States Department of Agriculture - Kansas City, MO 2004 to 2005 Lead IT Specialist, Netherlands United States Department of Defense 2002 to 2004 Science Application International Corporation, Technician 2001 to 2002 Database Manager/Medical Specialist, Germany United States Army Active Duty 1997 to 2001 Education Ph.D. in Information Assurance and Security in Information Assurance and Security Capella University - Minneapolis, MN 2019 Masters of Business Administration in Business Administration University of Phoenix - Phoenix, AZ 2012 Bachelors of Information Technology & Information Security Systems in Information Technology & Information Security Systems University of Phoenix - Phoenix, AZ 2010 Certifications/Licenses Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) EC Council CHFI CompTIA A+ CompTIA Network+ CompTIA Security+