Lead IT Vulnerability Management Analyst - Security Assurance Lead <span class="hl">IT</span> Vulnerability Management <span class="hl">Analyst</span> - <span class="hl">Security</span> Assurance Lead IT Vulnerability Management Analyst - Security Assurance - General Motors Corp Saint Clair Shores, MI A security professional with sixteen years of IT delivery experience in the automotive, financial and manufacturing sectors. Work Experience Lead IT Vulnerability Management Analyst - Security Assurance General Motors Corp - Detroit, MI 2013 to Present Engineer new IT project delivery processes and automate security and compliance assessments to improve IT delivery quality and reduce overall business risk.    • Develop processes and artifacts to automatically identify security and compliance requirements for new IT projects  • Integrate security processes with project delivery and automate security assessment tooling to support rapid, secure delivery  • Review IT projects and mentor project teams and software developers to ensure secure and compliant project delivery and maintain post-implementation security posture.  • Review third-party security training classes, recommend vendors and offerings, and formulate software developer training curriculums enabling the creation of the new 'GM Cyber Defense Academy'.  • Led two Operational Excellence projects enabling a 40% reduction in the time and costs associated with pre-delivery IT project security assessment and compliance alignment.  • Recipient of "Team Gm" recognition award for integration work with OnSTAR/connected vehicle.  • 2018 Recipient of GM CISO 'Armour' recognition award for security automation and innovation. IT Compliance Auditor - General Motors Account IBM Corp - Southfield, MI 2011 to 2013 Developed review procedures and performed internal and external compliance audits.  • Designed audit processes and validated internal systems for design, compliance and security.  • Performed compliance audits on GM third-party business partners to ensure alignment with GM security policies and practices.  • Performed infrastructure and application reviews to ensure Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) compliance.  • Recipient of GM "Workplace of Choice" recognition and IBM "Eminence and Excellence" Awards. Corporate Infrastructure Delivery Manager - GMAC Financial/Ally Tek Systems - Southfield, MI 2007 to 2009 IT Project Delivery management for corporate transformation and divestiture initiatives.    • Provided oversight and project management for SAP refresh, Asset Securitization, Ledger consolidation, OneHR, and various GM/GMAC separation/divestiture initiatives.  • Resolved delivery issues and managed supplier interdependencies between EDS, AT&T, IBM, and EMC project managers.  • Authored and negotiated SOW (Statements of Work) to ensure comprehensive solutions in a multi-supplier environment.  • Conducted off-site vendor cornerstone reviews, evaluated potential suppliers and made out-sourcing recommendations. Project Manager - Visteon Automotive Account Millennium Software - Southfield, MI 2004 to 2007 IT project manager over divestiture initiatives between Ford, Visteon, ACH Components Holding.    • Defined requirements, created roadmap, managed resources, and organized tasks enabling the separation of Visteon finance, manufacturing, and procurement from Ford Motor Company.  • Performed cost estimates, negotiated Service Level Agreements, and authored statements of work (SOW) for the internal IBM business office.  • Provided project oversight and coordinated data transition, environment cloning and hardware deployments with counterparts at Ford and Components Holding.  • Project Manager for multiple database, application, and hardware migration and conversion projects involving Windows, UNIX, Citrix, Word, Catia, Excel, SQL and Oracle.  • Recipient of two Visteon "Leading the Way" awards for delivery excellence. Infrastructure Planner - Visteon Automotive Account Compuware - Detroit, MI 2000 to 2004 IT Infrastructure planning, oversight and delivery for enterprise-wide asset refresh program.    • Processed desktop IT asset requests, initiated IT system procurement and managed a twelve-person asset deployment team servicing staff sites and manufacturing facilities.  • Launched a centralized IT asset warehouse system and negotiated with hardware leaseholders to reduce Visteon "end-of-term" lease fee exposure by 22%.  • Provided the logical/physical design, development, and global deployment of applications and supporting infrastructure for the Visteon global Six Sigma Program. Education M.S. in Information Assurance University of Detroit Mercy - Center for Cyber Security B.A. University of Michigan Skills Security, testing, training Certifications/Licenses cisa June 2013 to Present Certified Information System Auditor Groups ISACA - Information Systems Audit and Control Association, June 2013 to Present ISACA Additional Information ITIL v4