PMO Manager, Product Development PMO Manager, Product Development PMO Manager, Product Development - William Hill Las Vegas, NV Work Experience PMO Manager, Product Development William Hill - Las Vegas, NV 2019 to Present Reporting to the CTO, responsible for delivery of multiple product development streams ensuring delivery on time and on budget. Acted as NV Product Owner for retail (Kiosk & Terminals), and online betting. Planned and directed project schedules and monitor budget/spending. Worked closely with Project Delivery Managers/Scrum Masters to ensure product development teams are aligned with delivery, objectives and timelines. Assisted with coordination and oversight of product deployments. Provided guidance to ensure quality processes and standards are followed, documented, maintained and are accessible. Worked closely with key business stakeholders (CEO, CFO, CTO, CPO, and CMO) to prioritize key deliverables and agree on delivery schedules and provide visibility on product roadmap priorities and status of work in progress.    Projects & Accomplishments:  • Managed the Release Process and was responsible for SW releases for all states and locations in US.   • Supervised one or more Scrum Masters which in turn was responsible for 2-3 Development and Quality Assurance teams and participated in all Agile Ceremonies.  • Defined effective processes to optimize development lifecycle in an agile environment which improved delivery success IT Senior Project Manager Encore Boston Harbor - Boston, MA January 2018 to December 2018 Led the team effort for the casino implementation of the SW systems, gaming HW and applications required for the opening of the Encore Boston Harbor Hotel & Casino. Managed the vendor relationships for the key product vendors including negotiation of contracts, level of investment, project and operational costs, SOW, vendor performance, ability to meet deadlines and deliverables. Lead multiple concurrent high risk and complex projects throughout the entire project lifecycle including business case development, requirements, analysis and design, QA & Testing, UAT and implementation. Evaluated new products suggested by the business by analyzing the offerings and providing the business with options and were responsible for all project communication, meetings, status updates, and risk and vendor management. Worked directly with senior property (President, CIO, CFO, VPs) and corporate leaders as well as key vendors and IT leadership across all departments to define the product strategy and roadmap.     Projects & Accomplishments:   • Managed and coordinated several gaming and non-gaming vendors including IGT, Everi, Atrient, VisuaLimits, Veridocs, Genesis Gaming, Oracle, NRT, Angel Eye, GPI, TCS, Aristocrat, Scientific Games  • Led the team effort for the Play My Way requirements, design and implementation from the Encore side working with MGC, IGT and MGM Systems Implementation Senior Project Manager International Game Technology - Las Vegas, NV 2014 to 2018 Plan and coordinate all aspects of IGT projects from inception to implementation across multiple departments. Develop and document descriptions of assigned projects/products and write and maintain technical specifications. Support the coordination of the activities of multi-disciplinary teams in the achievement of project objectives and outcomes. Facilitate the flow of information among team members on assigned projects. Participate in removing project barriers and roadblocks and develop and submit for approval budgets and schedules for assigned projects. Participate in identifying, evaluating and selecting or recommending the selection of vendors for assigned projects. Develop, track and report on project progress, resource, staff, assets and schedules and project metrics. Review the delivered results and the team's performance, and adapt as necessary. Help develop a feature based release, milestone, and iteration plan to deliver on the vision.    Projects & Accomplishments:  • Managed & implemented over 60 projects around the US and Canada on time, schedule and budget in the last 3 years  • Successfully completed several multisite and single projects for IGT Advantage full installations and upgrades, Table Manager, Media Manager, Tournament Manager, ETG, Cardless Connect and Bonuses. Senior Operations Manager- Greek State Lottery OPAP INTERNATIONAL LTD - Athens, GR 2009 to 2014 Legal representative of OPAP International in Greece responsible for the operation & management of the Athens branch which provides consultancy services regarding the operation of the game 'Pame Stoixima', the sportsbook portfolio, to OPAP S.A. Apply business and technology skills to meet client expectations for technical competency, process innovation, cost savings and quality; identify market trends and opportunities to propose and deliver innovative, value-driving new solutions leveraging new technologies. Gather, translate and communicate customer technical and business needs into a solution architecture that can be delivered on time, on budget and deliver value to the client.    Projects & Accomplishments:  • Exceeded Sports Betting Gaming Gross Profit targets for 2012 and 2013.  • Management of about 50 personnel in terms of IT, strategy, policies, operations, HR, payroll, P&L, accounting, finance, budget, hiring, bank & vendor relationships, logistics, contracts, board of director's proceedings and liaison between the company and OPAP S.A.  • Led the team effort as the PM to investigate, design and implement the take-over of the Greyhound Races from Intralot to OPAP IT Technical Project Manager INTRALOT S.A - Athens, GR 2007 to 2009 Accountable for analyzing business processes and their feasibility while recommending alternative solutions to ensure smooth operations. Developed and maintained business requirements specifications while handling the project teams with comprehensive IT skills. Prepared release preparation plan for implementation, transition and data migration. Ensured that the business requirements, system architecture, data model communicated effectively to enterprise teams without ambiguity. Led implementation and operation of lottery integrated gaming systems worldwide on-time, on scope, on budget, based on LOTOS O/S, Terminals, multimedia content system, on-line and instant games with retail and online agencies and customers.    Projects & Accomplishments:  • Technical PM for one of the largest Intralot implementations, the Ohio Lottery conversion, for 12,000 terminals, including Specs, SW, HW, Networks, Data Center, Testing, Data Conversion, Terminal rollout & installation, Help Desk, Games, Multimedia Content, RNG certification, Ticket Vending Machines and instants.  • Part of the team responsible for the successful implementation of the South Carolina and New Mexico Lotteries project.  • Led the team effort, as the Technical PM, for the setup of Victoria AU lottery, in terms of SW, HW, Data Center, terminals, networks, infrastructure, external auditor certification, instant warehouse and the successful implementation of more than 800 terminals with On-line games, Player Club, Instants, multimedia content. IT Senior Project Manager IDEAL SYSTEMS - Athens, GR 2006 to 2007 Responsible for complete project management; ensuring delivery excellence within timelines & customer satisfaction to provide complete i-docs solutions for Eurobank Bank such as for Private, Treasury, AEDAK, and several reports. Provided guidance on the projects and its requirements to the clients over the technology, processes and applications while updating them on the regular project related developments.    Projects & Accomplishments:  Led complete migration of Eurobank Cards (100 million records) from the old system to the i-docs infrastructure up to the individual branches. R&D Project Manager/ Technical Security Manager MELLON TECHNOLOGIES - Athens, GR 2001 to 2006 Expertly led enterprise technology projects from concept through implementation, with full accountability for timelines, milestones, risk assessment, and budget. Managed the IT support and helpdesk section which was responsible for the infrastructure of 150 people including HW, SW, Servers, Network, Applications, E-mail, Internet, Intranet, Phone, Fax, Firewalls, Proxies.    Projects & Accomplishments:  • Managed, architected, designed and participated in pre-sales activities and technology implementations for several Government tenders such as the Ministry of Justice Penal Records, Ministry of Justice 6 Olympic Cities, Ministry of Commerce, Sizefxis, Police-Online and many more.  • Managed, investigated, designed and wrote proposals for many European and Greek R&D projects.  • Spearheaded as Technical Project Manager for the design and implementation of the Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) solution for the Hellenic Ministry of Justice for the digitization of the Criminal Records and the Greek Stock Market using SmartTrust / Nexus Certificate Manager Software and Microsoft PKI technologies. Software Design Engineer, Service Control Manager Team, Java/C++ HEWLETT PACKARD COMPANY - Fort Collins, CO 1996 to 2001 Managed the complete life cycle of development/ support projects including analysis of the client requirements; translating new ideas into clients solutions; requirements development; delivery, support, analysis and documentation for full secure client authentication for the Service Control Manager (SCM) Command Line Interfaces and GUI. Investigated, architected, designed, developed, tested, documented, and/or maintained components of the Software Distributor (SD) of the HP-UX operating system.    Projects & Accomplishments:  • Improved SCM security by developing code using public/private key, digital signatures technology, and Java 2 security mechanisms.  • Investigated, designed, and implemented on-the-wire Encryption for the SCM product using the HP IPSec/9000 technology. Database Manager/ Systems Analyst UNITED STATES AIR FORCE - Rome, NY 1983 to 1992 Maintained error-free network for over 200 on-line computer terminals. Solved database problems and provided assistance in the use, availability and retrieval of data. Designed, implemented, and maintained several software programs, thus automating work and improving productivity. Performed statistical analysis of data to determine trends and problem areas in order to proactively resolve problems and recommend solutions to upper management. Trained employees in the use of software, hardware, and programming techniques.    Projects & Accomplishments:  • Monitored all communication lines, equipment and downtime by troubleshooting and fixing errors, thus achieving 20% higher reliability and efficiency of the system.  • Part of the Operation Desert Shield/Storm during Iraq war deployment. Education MS in Computer Science & Engineering in Object Oriented Software Engineering Arizona State University - Tempe, AZ 1996 BS in Computer Science University of Maryland - College Park, MD 1992 AAS in Production Management Community College of the Air Force - Maxwell, CA 1991 AAS in Data Processing Programming & Systems State University of New York - Rome, NY 1988 Skills Cvs, Jdbc, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/nikolasmihalopoulos Certifications/Licenses Project Management Professional (PMP) Scrum Fundamentals Certified (SFC)