IT Desktop Assistant <span class="hl">IT</span> Desktop Assistant IT Desktop Assistant - HAHNEMANN UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL Philadelphia, PA Work Experience IT Desktop Assistant Hahnemann University Hospital - Philadelphia, PA September 2011 to Present Assisted and provided technical customer support, including first- and second- level network troubleshooting  ? Lead the development and installation of computerized time and attendance systems of tenet systems  ? Served with on-site implementation, customer sign-off and customer training team for deployment  ? Assisted Desktop Manager in installations, assembly, imaging and software updating on desktops, laptops, tablets,  phones and networks throughout the hospital.  ? Provided client systems software upgrades and support, including Solaris, Oracle, Tenet and custom software.  ? Assisted A/V Manager with developing and facilitating presentations and forward development proposals to assist Human Resources with potential and existing employees and patients. Data Management Specialist Rand Spear Law Firm - Philadelphia, PA May 2013 to November 2013 Philadelphia, PA (May 2013 - November 2013)  ? Implemented proprietary and open-source firewall, antivirus, anti-spyware, packet capture and IDS solutions including:  Watchguard, Norton and Ethereal and Snort to secure and monitor networks against internal and external security risks.  ? Install and configure both proprietary and server-based storage solutions including appliances, AD and SAMBA, including  backups, and RAID drives for archive purposes.  ? Assisted in monitoring all connections incoming and outgoing of the District using remote monitor utilizing big brother  technology.  ? Served as Lead Network Specialist, working directly with primary vendor to implement PlanetPress document processing and document refacing server. Network Security Analyst School District of Philadelphia - Philadelphia, PA December 2012 to May 2013 Assisted four employees, including mentoring for new software and applications.  Created and maintained a data management system for all client logs and digital data utilizing law programs and custom  customer feedback software.  Repaired, built and maintained two servers for Data collection, sorting and storing.  Assisted in installing wiring and cabling in the firm to set up a fiber optic network over the span of two weeks. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Science and Technology TEMPLE UNIVERSITY Philadelphia - Philadelphia, PA 2013 to 2016 Skills Networking, Win98, Win2000, Windows XP, Windows Vista, Windows 7, WAN, Apple, Cisco IOS, T-1, OSPF, Win2000 Server, NT 4.0, VLAN, DNS, EIGRP, Ethernet, Cabling, Cisco Switches, Intel Platforms, ISDN, BGP, WIN 9X, LAN, TCP/IP Cisco Routers, Macintosh Additional Information Qualifications    ? Four years as a computer professional, three in the professional IT field and one in networking  ? Productive self-starter, with a strong work ethic; able to take the lead of any project need fit  ? Proven experience in network/hardware/operating system troubleshooting, PC assembly, system integration, technical support, and customer service helpdesk.