Adjunct Instructor in Cybersecurity Adjunct Instructor in Cybersecurity Adjunct Instructor in Cybersecurity - Oxford Solutions LLC Levittown, NY Work Experience Adjunct Instructor in Cybersecurity Fordham University - New York, NY August 2017 to Present Develop and manage syllabus materials.  ? Educate and train students on open source tools.  ? Create weekly projects with student's participation to get them involved in the cybersecurity  intelligent field.  ? Students are asked to bring every class an article regarding to a cybersecurity issue such as: breaches,  ransomware, new scam methods and explain them during the first 15 minutes of the class.  ? Coordinate courseware and curriculum with academic department chair.  ? Facilitate class instruction using real live examples which make my class more interesting. Junior Cybersecurity Analyst Oxford Solutions LLC June 2017 to Present Perform daily operation of monitoring client network for security alerts/events for active threats  using Alien Vault and FortiSIEM as monitoring tools.  ? Respond to computer security events and conduct analysis to alert clients of possible threats which might compromised their network or website.  ? Communicate and scale issues and incidents as required by process management from low level with an email to high level making a direct phone call.  ? Specialize in network and log centric analysis and various projects accordingly client needs.  ? Execute personalized vulnerability scanning as per client request, and compare findings with former  results to address high risk issues.  ? Performing documentation review and improvement, attending meetings as needed.  ? Monitoring and resolution of security incidents within established customer Services Level  Agreements.  ? Analyze captured live packets using Wireshark as a tool, which will give us detailed protocol  information.  ? Explain findings to clients through different tools such as: TeamViewer, LogMeIn, and/or sometimes  on client's site.  ? Create custom report for clients to compare findings and risks they might face if not following  recommendations during presentations.  ? Review policies, user controls, and implement new measures to protect customer assets.  ? Create emerging threats reports weekly or as needed using different intelligent threats sources. Junior Security Engineer Unit 221b, NY May 2016 to May 2017 Created customize reports on vulnerability findings and at the same time giving accurate solutions.  ? Conducted Client Advisory Service Introductory OPSec and Security Training.  ? Trained clients on how to handle sensitive information.  ? Used different open and commercial pentesting tools to perform job.  ? Made presentations for new clients on different kind of attacks/methods such as: social engineering,  phishing, and others.  ? Performed network reconnaissance for pen tests and red teaming using tools as: SQLMAP, NMAP  and others.  ? Performed DB Vulnerability analysis for pen tests and red teaming using some basic SQLi (Sql  injection) sentences.  ? Met with clients to go over the reports before, during, and after pentesting process. Junior IT Business Analyst Big Apple Energy - Woodbury, NY December 2014 to April 2016 Oversee hardware infrastructure and keep updates with latest technology.  ? Participates in security systems testing and ensures integrity and confidentiality of sensitive data and monitors systems security and responding to security incidents.  ? Understands the necessary operations workflow requirements for each service offering some project  specifications matching client requirements/needs.  ? Maintains knowledge of applications by working with company Litigation Support Analysts,  attending vendor product briefings/training sessions, reviewing professional publications and by attending company or other industry sponsored events/webinars.  ? Analyzes and converts raw Excel data into readable information for clients. Junior SQL Reporting Writer General Welding Supply Corporation May 2007 to November 2014 R2)    ? Wrote queries in Reporting Services to create daily reports for management.  ? Provided IT support and data recovery technical support as needed.  ? Represented BI team, often as first point of contact, ensuring BI users have relevant access to BI  tools/environments and understand how to use them.  ? Improved daily operational procedures to increase efficiency and to decrease company costs. Education Masters of Science in Cyber Security in Cyber Security University of Maryland University College- College Park 2016 to 2019 Masters of Science in Information Networking and Computer Security in Information Networking and Computer Security New York Institute of Technology - Old Westbury, NY 2014 to 2015 Bachelors of Science in Computer Programming and Information Systems in Computer Programming and Information Systems Farmingdale State College - Farmingdale, NY 2007 to 2010 Bachelors of Science in Business Administration in Business Administration Federico Villarreal University - Lima, PE 1998 to 2002 Associate of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Institute of Technology DATAPRO - Lima, PE 1994 to 1996 Skills DDos (Less than 1 year), EXCELLENT WRITTEN AND VERBAL COMMUNICATION SKILLS (Less than 1 year), Linux (Less than 1 year), security (7 years), testing (1 year) Additional Information Technical Skills  Extensive knowledge of all common business-related IT functions; and able to identify online  security risks.  Familiarity and/or understanding of current attack methodologies, such as man-in-the-middle,  sniffing, phishing, cross site scripting and DDos.  Experience in multiple OS (Windows, Linux and Kali for penetration testing purposes.)  Excellent analytical and troubleshooting skills.  Effective written and verbal communication, interpersonal, and organizational skills.  Passion for Cybersecurity.