Enterprise Backup and Recovery Data Protection Engineer/ System Administrator Enterprise Backup and Recovery Data Protection Engineer/ System Administrator Enterprise Backup and Recovery Data Protection Engineer/ System Administrator Houston, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Enterprise Backup and Recovery Data Protection Engineer/ System Administrator Marathon Oil Corporation - Houston, TX February 2015 to February 2018 Manage, configure, and maintain all aspect of eight EMC Networkers in a large multi-location environment including managing all upgrade projects. (Networker 8 and Networker 9) The backup platform consists of disk-to-disk and disk-to-tape. (Data Domain and Tape library) (Networker servers on Windows Server 2012 and 2016) (most servers on virtual environment)  • Testing, documentation, best practice for Disaster Recovery  • Perform Networker, Avamar, DPM, and Isilon restores  • Manage and monitor storage usage/issues on Data Domain (DD9500) (DD68000) (DD990) (5.5-6.1 DDOS)  • Create and monitor EMC Data Protection Advisor reports (DPA)  • Investigate and respond to alerts generated by our monitoring tool  • Create and implement Backup and recovery documentation processes, procedures, and configurations  • Manage and configure backup replication to DR site  • Configured backups to New Data Domains in new sites  • Install and configure backup agents for Windows Server and Linux environment.  • Configure and support backups using agents and DDBoost for Oracle, SAP, SQL, and HANA Databases  • Manage critical Networker restores (Database Restores and Bare Metal Restores)  • Provide hardware and software support for the backup servers  • Daily monitoring of backup jobs on all eight EMC Networkers and two Avamar Backup Servers  • Setup backup policies based on client requirements  • Manage and maintain off-site tape library  • Troubleshoot daily failures and find solutions  • Monitor queue in ticketing system Remedy/Service Now  • On-call 24/7    One Drive Cloud Migration Project: (MS Office 365) Migrated users via Metalogix and test results. IT Security Compliance Engineer/Enterprise Backup Administrator NaviSite Inc 2010 to 2014 A provider of hosting, application management and managed cloud services for enterprises.  Manage Alert logic deployment and administration for 68 customers within healthcare, government and corporate industries. Alert logic is the leader in IT Security and Compliance solutions. Report to the Senior Manager of IT Security and Compliance in the delivery of infrastructure and compliance management in hosted and cloud environments. Complete installation and onboarding on Windows Servers for new business accounts. Accountable for threat and log management as well as vulnerability and PCI scanning. Monitor and communicate security threats following the NaviSite Incident Management process. Collaborate with onsite system and network administrators to effectively counteract potential threats and vulnerabilities, which may impact the customer's production or development environment. Convey security issues and resolution to customer's IT leadership. Configure and deploy PCI scans at multiple data centers to ensure financial reporting and protection of sensitive data meets the highest industry standards. Validate systems for SSAE16 Audit.  • Technical Project Manager for 68 customers regarding upgrades/changes to meet Compliance standards.  • Maintain Backups for several customers utilizing HP Data Protector, Net Backup, and EMC Networker (formerly Legato Networker) which includes installing backup software on new servers, troubleshooting backup issues, archiving, and restoring data from offsite tapes.  • Maintain data center facilities, data center patching via Bladelogic.  • Designed documentation for the effective transfer of knowledge to Time Warner for administration of Alert Logic.  • Effectively sustained security and compliance needs for 68 corporate (including numerous Fortune 500 clients), government, and healthcare customers with complex federal and regulatory compliance requirements.  • Worked closely with Alert logic to Investigate Intrusion detection alerts and attack activities (such as Trojans, Virus, and worms) for all 68 customers, on call 24/7 year round.  • Assist Sales Teams with Request for information and /or Request for proposal responses  • Prepared detailed proposals and statements of work System Administrator II/Enterprise Backup Administrator/NOC NaviSite Inc 2004 to 2010 Server administration and maintenance for approximately 200 Servers. (Window Server 2000/2003/2008) Maintain server hardware and implement necessary patches, chassis swaps, updates, and upgrades to meet security compliance and system integrity. (Active Directory) Managed HP Data Protector/Legato backup software and oversaw the 250+ client and internal backups. Responded to Level II and Level III support issues through the remedy ticket system. Identified the root cause of any customer issues and managed analysis through resolution. Interacted with employees across customer organization to ensure optimal technical operation and issue resolution.    • Managed Bladelogic for the entire Houston Datacenter which consisted of 250 plus clients.  • Managed Backups using Legato(EMC Networker)/ HP Data protector for the entire Houston Datacenter, which includes installing backup software on new servers, troubleshooting backup issues, archiving, and restoring data from offsite tapes.  • Performed Windows Server builds and hardware/software upgrades and conducted ongoing server audits to ensure proper set up.  • Provided functional leadership and mentoring pertaining to customer relations, technical expertise, and server administration to onsite technical support team. Lotus Notes Support Specialist Interliant Inc - Houston, TX 2000 to 2003 Interliant Inc provided managed infrastructure solutions, encompassing messaging and collaboration, managed hosting, bundled-in managed security, and professional services. In 2003, Interliant Inc was acquired by Navisite Inc.    Performed Lotus Notes R4 and R5 user and server administration support including, server monitoring, user set up and configuration, creating groups, mail files, and addressing and remedying user issues. Analyzed and resolved server crashes, replication and cluster replication issues. Developed and maintained documentation of configuration, procedures and policies.    • Successfully managed 300 corporate accounts with employees located throughout the US and internationally. IT Analyst Chase Bank - Houston, TX 1999 to 1999 Provided system administration and technical support. Supported remote access users with Novell and NT issues and performed 1st level support of Lotus Notes.  • Played a key role in the development of technical project, which resulted in a 50% time reduction in the set up of new accounts. Technical Support Engineer Compaq Computer Corporation - Houston, TX 1999 to 1999 Received and resolved technically complex customer and commercial user issues within system environments. Guided customers through installation, troubleshooting and resolution of hardware and software problems. Technical Support Representative Gateway Inc - Houston, TX 1998 to 1998 Managed a high volume of residential customer technical support calls. Promoted to a technical lead within 4 months as a result of superior customer feedback and technical knowledge. Education Certificate San Jacinto College Skills Enterprise backup, Disaster recovery, Pci, Active directory, Data center, Ssae16, Avamar, Net backup, Ms office, Technical support, Sharepoint, Webtrends, Systems administration, Engineer, Emc, Proposals, Windows server 2003, Lotus notes, Account management, Onboarding Additional Information Technical Skills: EMC Networker/HP Data Protector/Avamar/Net Backup/DPA/ Windows Server 2003/2008/2012 Bladelogic /Patchlink / Lotus Notes / Alertlogic / SharePoint/ WebTrends / MS Office 365/ Active Directory/ Service Now/ Webex    • More than 18 years of IT experience including Windows Enterprise Systems Administration within diverse corporate, government and healthcare organizations.  • Extensive background onboarding and deploying product solutions as well as providing ongoing account management on behalf of numerous enterprise customers.  • Comprehensive background monitoring global vulnerability scanning operations and results. Skilled in collaborating with system and network administrators and client IT leadership to communicate and resolve system vulnerabilities.  • System Administrator, Active Directory, MS Windows, and MS Office  • Strength in remediating security issues and ensuring PCI compliance, HIPA compliance and SSAE16 reporting standards within highly regulated environments.  • Enterprise Backup Engineer for a Data Center and for an Oil and Gas Company  • Assist Sales Teams with Request for information and /or Request for proposal responses  • Prepared detailed proposals and statements of work    Enterprise Backup and Disaster Recovery Engineer, Technical Support, and System Administrator experience