Content review analyst Policy Enforcement Content review <span class="hl">analyst</span> Policy Enforcement Content review analyst Policy Enforcement Round Rock, TX to obtain a challenging position where my experience is utilized and there is room for growth as an IT Technician Specialist. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Content review analyst Policy Enforcement Accenture flex - Austin, TX May 2019 to Present Maintain a high level of familiarity with client Policy verticals.   Review escalated and user-reported content for compliance with client Policy guidelines.   Meet and/or exceed ambitious core work targets.   Identify global & local trends and monitor major violators in the online community.   Respond to additional requests and projects as needed.   Provide Policy consultation and guidance to other admins and teams.   Started as a Tier 1 agent after two months of outstanding performances I got promoted to Tier 2 againt .  At june I have received appreciation letters from the project manager and my agency.   At July I got recognized by the op manager as a Rock Star (MVP).  Top 4 performance agent . Content review analyst Policy Enforcement BCforward - Austin, TX February 2018 to April 2019 Maintain a high level of familiarity with client Policy verticals.   Review escalated and user-reported content for compliance with client Policy guidelines.   Meet and/or exceed ambitious core work targets.   Identify global & local trends and monitor major violators in the online community.   Respond to additional requests and projects as needed.   Provide Policy consultation and guidance to other admins and teams.   Started as a Tier 1 agent after two months of outstanding performances I got promoted to Tier 2 againt .  At june I have received appreciation letters from the project manager and my agency.   At July I got recognized by the op manager as a Rock Star (MVP).  Top 4 performance agent . IT Technician Impulse Computers September 2014 to January 2018 On call    ? Installing hardware and software systems.  ? Maintaining and repairing computer equipment.  ? Troubleshooting variety of computer, smartphones and tablets issues.  ? Troubleshooting variety of computer software "Windows and MAC".  ? Setting up computers' security protection measures.  ? Configure computer networks.  ? Offering off-site and on-site technical support "in person, email or phone". Security Guard Supervisor Doubletree Hotels June 2011 to June 2015 Patrol the interior of and the perimeter of the hotel and the property to observe and identify potential safety risks, security risks and undesirable conditions.  ? Respond to emergency situations including, but not limited to, safety hazards, fires, medical emergencies and threats to life and/or property.  ? Promote safe work practices.  ? Initiates preliminary investigations into incidents, as needed.  ? Writes reports and ensures accuracy of necessary documentation, as needed.  ? Respond to guest inquiries and requests and resolve guest issues in a timely, friendly and efficient manner. Debug Technician Doubletree Hotels March 2014 to June 2014 Troubleshoot and repair to component level a variety of digital and analog circuits.  ? Provide rework, assembly and testing instruction in support manufacturer(s).  ? Rework various surface mount components in digital and analog circuits.  ? Perform maintenance all FCT and ICT test systems on hard ware and soft ware.  ? Perform Debug all RMA.  ? Perform other duties as assigned. IT Technician / Part-time IT and Engineering Consulting Company May 2010 to February 2012 Perform hardware service and repairs: desktop and laptop computers.  ? Install software, troubleshoot Windows issues, recover data, and remove viruses.  ? Build custom desktops and network wireless and cable setup's and repairs. Smart tech IT and Engineering Consulting Company October 2006 to April 2010 Install software, troubleshoot Windows issues, recover data, and remove viruses.  ? Perform hardware service and repairs: desktop and laptop computers.  ? Build custom desktops and network wireless and cable setup's and repairs. IT/Network Specialist June 2000 to November 2005 Promoted from trainee copy boy to IT/Network Specialist.  ? Supervised and ran Network Café for two years.  ? Provided mobile phone software services for KARDAS Mobile shop. Education Bachelor's Certifications/Licenses Security Guard