Business Analyst Business <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Business Analyst Round Lake, IL Work Experience Business Analyst Aon - VBridge - Lincolnshire, IL April 2018 to January 2019 As part of the GSS Identity Services Operations Management team, I worked with Aonnet security group owners/approvers to validate group information to be included in the OneIdentity Automation Process. Scope was the Aonnet Domain and adding  users to security group requests.  • Validated security group owners and approvers on the Aonnet Domain.  • Communicated with owners and approvers, as well as answered questions on the automation process.  • Worked with several teams including Active Directory, Developers, and Global Management Incident to put the automation in place for the security groups.  • Updated SharePoint with process documentation. Compliance Analyst Aon - VBridge - Lincolnshire, IL November 2017 to March 2018 Developed an operational model for the Security Assurance Team to monitor unencrypted Personally Identifiable Information  (PII) data. Initial scope included 15,000 colleagues who were part of the divestiture moving from Vontu to McAfee Data Loss  Prevention tool. Future phase would include all colleagues globally.  • Security Assurance Team lead for this project.  • Met with regional business unit leads who monitored the data to gain insight on their process and escalation model.  • Worked with the Global Management Incident Team for access and training of the tool.  • Researched Aon's data privacy rules and code of conduct for sending PII data.  • Updated SharePoint with process documentation. Executive Administrative Assistant, Human Resource Services XEROX COMPANY - Schaumburg, IL September 2011 to February 2017 Provided support for Chief of Staff Office and three Senior Executives in the Human Resource Services Group with activities  including travel arrangements, format/design reports, calendar, financial reporting, approvals, and miscellaneous day-to-day  tasks. Ensured procedures, processes, and best practices are followed and managed documents and access on SharePoint.  • Created daily excel reports for financial and project tracking that included complex pivot tables and formulas.  • Handled confidential information including PII, salary, performance, bonus / awards, and financial details.  • Ensured all travel requests and expense reports were in compliance with the policies and procedures.  • Successfully coordinated Microsoft 2010 upgrade for the entire U.S. base HR Solutions Organization of approximately 2,500 employees.  • Served as resource and mentor for other administrative assistants within Human Resource Services.  • Coordinated client site visits, meetings, and events with existing and potential clients.  • Managed new hire onboarding resulting in a 95% increase in productivity for new hires on day one.  • Coordinated access for new and existing employees by submitting correct access request form.    PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE, Senior Administrative Assistant / Project Coordinator HRIS April 2009 to September 2011 Provided support for a Senior Executive with activities including managing PMO Dashboard and milestones, contractor  onboarding, calendar, travel arrangements, and client survey coordination.  • Oversaw contract deliverables tied to projects on the PMO Dashboard. Achieved 100% rate on milestones that are  delivered on-time in accordance to the contract.  • Managed PMO Dashboard to ensure updates are timely and formatting is consistent; communicated status updated  internally, as well as externally to the client.  • Managed contractor onboarding which resulted in a 75% increase in productivity for new hires on day one.  • Coordinated and co-lead focus groups with client regarding any areas both the client and ACS deem necessary.  • Managed and coordinated the monthly client survey including compiling questions, look and feel, communication,  timing, and results. ITAudits & Compliance Analyst, IT HEWITT ASSOCIATES - Lincolnshire, IL August 2007 to March 2009 Managed all PeopleSoft Financial and HR/Payroll Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) IT Controls. Oversaw LAN and Novell access for Sarbanes-Oxley and SAS 70 IT Controls, approving elevated access to maintain system and network security.  • Produced monthly Governance and Scorecard Reports, ensuring that servers and patches are current, and maintaining on-going support so that Hewitt can achieve service level agreements for clients. Initiated  improvements that reduced time for processing by 16 hours/month.  • Ensured that IT controls are updated and tested as necessary to correspond with changes in internal control or financial reporting processes.  • Coordinated quarterly meetings to prepare for audits and provided recommendations to the business to ensure data  integrity. Achieved 100% pass rate on all audits since 2007.  • Managed ongoing compliance project in alignment with business policies and SOX controls; partnered with Corporate Internal Audit, Third Party Auditors and business owners to establish strong governance models, and  ensure that Manage Access, Manage Change, and Manage Operations Controls meet business requirements.  • Documented new processes and procedures, and support team in reviewing documentation for accuracy and details.  • Streamlined process to execute scripts, run batch jobs, perform random internal reviews/audits, and spot checks,  significantly reducing turnaround time for auditors by 10-15 hours/month.  • Proactively performed self-assessments and testing of logical access controls by Hewitt Personnel with elevated  access privileges. IS Data Security Analyst, IT Financial and HR PeopleSoft February 2007 to August 2007 Managed the Financial and HR PeopleSoft issues/requests from all appropriate sources including the mailbox and Remedy  queue. Resolved issues within the Service Level Agreement guidelines.  • Investigated evidence requests and updated spreadsheets pertaining to SOX controls resulting in reducing the hours  billed from external auditors by 60%.  • Produced monthly Segregation of Duties report; communicated conflicts to data approvers and initiated appropriate  action to resolve any conflicts.  • Produced quarterly Appropriate Access Security Review for PeopleSoft; communicated roles to data approvers and initiated removal of inappropriate access. Senior Desktop Services Technician, IT June 1998 to February 2007 Provided LAN access, software, and hardware support for employees. Led project to clean up licensing fees.  • Coordinated and led project to clean-up MS Project licenses, saving $250K in licensing fees.  • Re-engineered process of how client access is obtained which decreased training downtime by 15 hours/month.  • Managed LAN access globally and maintained Novell groups in a Netware 5.1 environment; served as Subject  Matter Expert for LAN Standards and management of data security.  o Coached and trained peers to ensure the Standard Operating Procedure was being met, as well as against any breach of client security.  • Evaluated, packaged, tested, and implemented applications with vendors for firm-wide distribution.  • Provided support for Lotus Notes, Microsoft Office, and other standard Hewitt applications. Monitored third-level  queue which improved resolution time by 30%.  • Provided hardware support for Dell Latitude Laptops, Dell Dimension Desktops, and IBM/Levono Thinkpad  laptops. Built desktops and laptops with drive image software to minimize end user downtime from days to hours.  PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE, Administrative Assistant, HRO GTE December 1994 to June 1998 Provided support to a Unit Manager and the Disability Team for the largest client, GTE. Managed their calendars, meetings, and work load.  • Collaborated with the vendor, client contact, and employee regarding disability claims. Handled the claim from  start to finish which improved interdepartmental efficiencies.  • Trained approximately 200 new associates on Hewitt Identity and Technology Orientation. Education High school or equivalent Skills arrangements (7 years), Microsoft Office (8 years), MS OFFICE (8 years), SARBANES OXLEY (2 years), travel arrangements (7 years), Excel Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE  Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) SAS 70 IT Controls Scheduling Microsoft Office Suite Analytical Detail Oriented  Office & Administrative Support Customer Service Preparing Reports & Documents Data Entry  Complex Problem Solving Organizing Meetings Coordinating Travel Arrangements