IT Specialist Info Security - Risk Management Lead <span class="hl">IT</span> Specialist Info <span class="hl">Security</span> - Risk Management Lead Information Security & Risk Management Analyst Frederick, MD Over 15 years of IT experience encompassing program management, leading IT Operations and Security teams. Ability to understand business objectives, perform analysis and apply technology and security to meet the needs of the organization. Strong value on customer service and servant leadership as these are the keys to any successful organization. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Specialist Info Security - Risk Management Lead NIH/OD/OCIO & NIAID February 2017 to Present • Provide NIH CISO and NIH Deputy CISO support  • Perform Security assessments on NIAID systems.  • Acting CIT and NIMHD ISSO  • Federal Lead for A & A Risk Management team.  • Work with ISSOs at all 27 NIH institutes to get Systems and Applications ATO  • Create Process, policy and procedures for A & A process for all of NIH  • Review guidance documents (HHS, NIST, NIH Handbook, etc) and provide input  • Provide input on guidance, policies and procedures for NIH/ICs  • Review ATO Packages and Package Documents (CP, SAR's FIPS 199 etc.)  • Create Risk Summary of ATO packages for CISO to review and sign  • Work with ISSO's to review artifacts and remediate POAM's  • NSAT (Trusted Agent Experience) and Archer experience CEO and Talent Advisor Braxton Healthcare Staffing Agency February 2008 to Present • Braxton Healthcare Staffing Agency (BHCSA) recruits nurses, doctors, health IT professional and other health care professionals to permanent, and contract(long-term and short-term.   • We have positions available all across the country.   • The platform we use is a healthier approach to healthcare employment. We have partnered with the fastest growing healthcare network, the platforms we use are the realization of what the future of healthcare staffing will look like. The platform's mission is to become health care's most trusted staffing and contracting firms, setting a new standard of service, value, and innovation for all involved. It’s healthcare recruitment, all better. Program Manager/Senior Information Security Analyst - US House of Representative Telos Corporation 2016 to 2017 Serve as the principle point of contact for coordination and implementation of the NIST Risk Management process.  • Held kickoff and weekly meetings to brief key stakeholders and Senior Leadership.  • Perform security assessment on House of Representative Financial Systems: PeopleSoft, HRIS and FinMart.  • Review the system Security Plans.  • Responsible for performing risk Assessment and security controls auditing to assure the availability, integrity and confidentially of data.  • Categorized information system type and information type according to NIST 800 publications and FIPS standards.  • Created Security Assessment Report.  • Review Nessus scan and Web Inspect Scans.  • Assessed and audited implemented controls, management, operational and technical, to ensure the controls were implement and operating as intended.  • Created Plan of Actions and milestones for remediation of vulnerabilities found during the security assessment.  • Provided input to the development of contingency plan, systems- security plans and disaster recovery plans.  • Created system authorization packages for authority to operate for Authorizing official. Program Manager Turning Point Global Solutions - Center for Medicare and Medicaid 2015 to 2016 Provide leadership and mentoring for 14 local and remote technicians that operate 24/7 VCS  Help desk which is responsible for monitoring and reporting telephone, infrastructure and various outages with Center for Medicaid and Medicare locations.  • VCS helpdesk monitors technical problems with Medicare.gov and Federal Market place  website.  • Review various matrix reports on team performance  • Attend monthly meeting at CMS to provide overall status of the program to CMS Senior  Leadership  • Subject Matter Expert selected by Senior Management to provide a response to statement of work for the HRSA help desk contract.  • Based on my expertise, I was selected to provide insight into the day to day operations as well  as the process and procedures of the HRSA help desk, so a well-defined response could be  developed and submitted.  • Participated as a member of the Pink, Red and Gold team HRSA response review. Program Manager The Ventura Group LLC 2009 to 2015 Program Manager on a 20-million-dollar IT contract at HRSA as the corporate onsite  representative.  • Manager for three direct reports and a team of over 30 people including desktop support  professionals, trainers, application support specialists, network infrastructure specialist and one-off site person.  • The environment had over 2400 end users as well as remote users.  • Use resource allocation skills to ensure tickets are completed within the agreed upon SLAs.  • Senior Contract IT Representative/Liaison between the customer and federal staff.  • Improved customer service response time from an average rating to an excellent rating by monitoring Service Now queues to insure all tickets were completed in accordance with our SLAs.  • Developed help desk policies and procedures.  • Coordinated the implementation of various technologies and software upgrades.  • Worked with government staff to increase the staff count on the contract by several people thus increasing revenue for the company.  • Provide project deliverable, monthly reports to the Branch Chief and VP of the Ventura Group.  • Implemented the use of metrics with the federal staff to better capture times, workflows and response times that allowed the government to show the need for additional resources.  • Managed the training team and developed training for end users.  • Improved the training program by conducting a survey and meeting with the management team of the various departments to determine training required by the end users and the departments.  • Conduct weekly meetings with upper management and the team.  • Interview and hire staff.  • Manage incidents and problems that occurred and kept management informed of the resolution of the incident.  • Managed the incident response team. IT Manager/LAN Administrator Perot Systems Government Services - NIH/NIAID 2004 to 2008 Education Bachelor of Science in Business Administration in Information Technology in Business Administration Colorado Technical University September 2005 Skills Nist, Cyber Security, Information Security, Risk Management, Compliance, Healthcare Certifications/Licenses ISC2 CAP April 2016 to Present https://www.youracclaim.com/badges/55aa7d5f-59f4-4c31-aed7-77d77478e8c4/linked_in_profile Additional Information Over 15 years of IT experience encompassing program management, leading IT Operations and Security teams. Ability to understand business objectives, perform analysis and apply technology and security to meet the needs of the organization. Strong value on customer service and servant leadership as these are the keys to any successful organization.