Security Analyst II <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> II Detroit Lakes, MN Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Security Analyst II Blue Cross Blue Shield of ND - Fargo, ND February 2016 to Present Review system vulnerabilities for potential threats. Work with a Team to determine problems using tools such as IP360 and Security Center. Communicate with system administrators to review patch management and threat remediation. Server Administrator Sanford Health January 2015 to February 2016 Windows Server administration. Active Directory Administration. System Backup monitoring and maintenance. Windows Server Patch management. VMWare administration. Build servers for applications coordinating efforts with other IT teams and hospital/clinical and financial departments. Remotely support hospital and clinics. SharePoint Support 2nd level VMC Consulting - Fargo, ND September 2014 to January 2015 Support Microsoft SharePoint for Microsoft global customers. Laborer and IT Support Krueger Concrete and Steel - Absaraka, ND July 2014 to September 2014 Install concrete pads, footings, walls.  Detailed understanding of cubic measurements.  Detail oriented work.  Budgeting supplies and time to complete jobs on schedule.  Software setup and support.  Planning future technology needs. Server Administrator TMI Hospitality - Fargo, ND July 2013 to June 2014 Server administration. Network Equipment Support (Cisco). Server Software installs. Build and maintain Servers for hospitality, and business applications. Support remote locations. Maintain backups and patch management. Server Administrator Sanford Health - Fargo, ND July 2008 to July 2013 Windows Server administration.  Active Directory Administration.  System Backup monitoring and maintenance. Windows Server Patch management. VMWare administration.  Build servers for applications coordinating efforts with other IT teams and hospital/clinical and financial departments.  Remotely support hospital and clinics. Network Specialist II City of Fargo - Fargo, ND July 2007 to July 2008 Supervisor PC Support Personnel.  Support PC Hardware / Software  Network Administration Tasks  Troubleshoot Network Problems  Recommend Strategies for Department  Windows and AS/400 Administrtion  Build and Implement new servers Network Specialist / Data Processing Supervisor Cass County Government - Fargo, ND July 2000 to July 2007 Supervisor of PC Support personnel  Network administration tasks  Troubleshoot network problems  Novell and Windows Server administration  Troubleshooting and repairing PC's.  Customer Support  Communication with County Administration and maintain IT budget. Systems Engineer, CNE MicroAge - Fargo, ND January 2000 to May 2000 Support PC hardware / Software  Troubleshoot customer network problems and performance  Recommend customer strategies for implementing technologies Systems Engineer, CNE Incacom Information Systems - Springfield, IL June 1998 to December 1999 Project Management  Novell and Windows Server Administration  Project Management  Site Management  Customer Relations  Support PC hardware / Software  Troubleshoot customer network problems and performance  Recommend customer strategies for implementing technologies Network Administrator Phoenix International - Springfield, IL May 1996 to June 1998 Support PC Hardware and Software  Network Administration  Troubleshoot and Repair PC's  Implement and support Engineering Applications Education Associate in Microcomputer Specialist North Dakota State College of Science - Wahpeton, ND August 1994 to May 1996 Skills Active Directory, security, testing, access