Work from home Travel Concierge Work from home Travel Concierge Work from Home N Las Vegas, NV I am currently looking for a full-time position in an environment that offers a greater challenge, and the opportunity to help the company advance efficiently and productively. I have self-confidence, a good problem resolving ability, and I'm a quick learner. My experience will help you wherever you have a demand and I will take your organization to greater heights. Work Experience Work from home Travel Concierge Aspire Lifestyles-Citi Bank - Las Vegas, NV February 2019 to Present Citi bank lifestyle concierge will support customers globally providing assistance and consult in areas included but not limited to; travel arrangements, event bookings, restaurant reservations and more. The most suitable individual selected for this position will have a passion for service and willingness to anticipate client needs. Sales/Reservations U-Haul Moving and Storage - Las Vegas, NV August 2018 to May 2019 Answering incoming calls from customers utilizing both the U-Haul toll free 1-800-GO-UHAUL phone number and customers calling specific U-Haul Moving Centers across the U.S. and Canada. Answered back-to-back incoming calls from customers utilizing both the U-Haul toll free 1-800-GO-UHAUL phone number and customers calling specific. Made and canceled reservations, made storage payments in the companies website.    Work from home-Roadside Assistance Agent LiveOps - Las Vegas, NV May 2018 to December 2018 Receive inbound calls from customers and diagnose and resolve technical issues over the phone. If required, route tasks to responsible party. Assist customers with sourcing 3rd party vendors when needed (i.e. towing or tire vendors). Answer questions about product details, the company, and issues with account for the customers. Utilize technical documents to relay information to customers and team members over the phone or electronically. Meet Call Center Requirements and other key performance metrics. Seasonal Customer Service Associate - Work from Home Williams-Sonoma, Inc. - Las Vegas, NV November 2017 to January 2018 Address customer questions and concerns regarding product and delivery information. Provided product information, review alternative solutions if an item is out of stock and place orders for the customer. Successfully negotiate and appease customers using a variety of methods established by Williams-Sonoma, Inc., guidelines. Check inventory, process returns, issue replacements and credits for damaged or defective merchandise Perform other duties as assigned. IT- information & Security Gaming compliance Analyst VisionIT - Las Vegas, NV June 2014 to November 2015 Hired by Vision- IT for MGM to On-boarding contractors, processing gaming licenses for NGCB, MGCB, and MGB. Providing badges for facility access for all MGM IT-employees and IT-contractors. Running my weekly and monthly report realizing gaming MICS. Processing daily terms, and providing the daily hire/term report. Table Games Auditor Caesar's Entertainment - Las Vegas, NV May 2013 to June 2014 Worked as a temp at Caesar's Entertainment auditing all the table games for all properties that are  owned by Caesar's Palace. Followed MICS provided by the Nevada Gaming Control Board to audit table games. Worked with CMS, Marcos, and Excel to perform my daily tasks. Auditor Robert Half Finance & Accounting - Las Vegas, NV January 2013 to September 2013 Worked as a temp employee for Sunset Station and Station properties auditing aged markers Followed ICPS to audit makers. Auditor 1 Fifth Street Gaming - Las Vegas, NV August 2012 to January 2013 Cage, Slot, and Table game used ICP ( Internal Control Producers) Auditor for Gold Spike Read Slot Meters for Gold Spike weekly, MICS ( minimal internal control standards) Table Games Auditor for Silver Nugget and Lucky Club. Prepared exception reports for variances found during an audit. Senior Account Manager Litigation Services - Las Vegas, NV September 2011 to September 2012 Maintain and collected on client accounts, processed credit card payments, called 50-60 clients per day and collected 200k per week. Credits/voids/write offs, revising invoices and sent client bi-weekly and monthly invoices, and statements of their accounts. Cashier/ Collections Wolff Organization - Las Vegas, NV March 2007 to April 2009 Cashier, Sales, and stocking, collecting on late member accounts, sending late letters. Collections Specialist HCA Corporate - Las Vegas, NV March 2002 to December 2006 Maintaining patient accounts, collecting insurance payments in a timely matter, and worked with HMO, PPO, and Medicaid Education Bachelor of Technology in Computer Networking University of Maryland University College 2015 to 2016 Associate of Arts in Arts and Sciences Kaplan University-Davenport Campus 2012 to 2014 GED in General Studies Sheepshead Bay HS 1999 to 2000 Skills CSR, Call Center, Customer Support, Customer Care, Customer Service Skills (10+ years), Microsoft office (10+ years), Citrix (4 years), Travel Arrangements (2 years), Travel Coordination (2 years), Sales (7 years), Sharepoint (10+ years), Accounts Receivable (4 years), Accounts Payable (4 years), Account Management (4 years), Accounting (1 year), Tech support (3 years), 45 wpm (5 years), Cash Handling, Management, Receptionist, fast learner, Zendesk (1 year), Five9 (1 year)