IT Director of Infrastructure, Operations, and Security <span class="hl">IT</span> Director of Infrastructure, Operations, and <span class="hl">Security</span> Thomasville, NC Experienced and change-focused IT leader who specializes in the marriage of business goals and IT objectives with experience in then road-mapping and implementing those objectives. Believe and practice in moving IT from simply operational to a strategic advantage for the organization.  About Me:  • 20+ year IT professional with steady progression of responsibility from deskside technician to backend systems administration to IT Director over operations and security.  • Adjectives to describe my work nature: passionate, dedicated, level-headed, positive, calm, consistent, creative, and determined.  • Proven ability through experience of changing the course of an IT environment and department. My assignments have always resulted in measurable increases in uptime, availability, and reliability, regardless of budget situations.  • Able to measure risk vs. reward of IT initiatives and map them to stated business goals and objectives.  • Consistently over-delivered on project ROI projections that turned long-term capital investments into strategic assets for the organization.   • Excellent oral and written communication skills. I am sought out by peers in organizations to assistance in drafting professional communications as well as for the creation of templates used enterprise wide. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Director of Infrastructure, Operations, and Security PHE, Inc December 2014 to Present • Infrastructure and Operations  ? Led multiple project initiatives to increase uptime and availability of ecommerce sites from 97.21% (year average upon my arrival) to 99.98%+, translating to over 8 additional days "up" per year.  ? Fully executed business cases have achieved less than 1-year ROI.  ? Architect and shepherded internal data center overhaul with minimum end-user disruption. Implemented role-based server environment that reduced server-side incidents by over 90%.  ? Implemented ITIL based service desk request system; maintaining over 94% SLAs and 98% customer satisfaction rates.  • Security Services  ? Lead annual PCI compliance audit initiatives with year over year reductions in both issues found and severity of those issues.  ? Design and lead security incident exercises to practice response to potential breach scenarios at least twice annually.  ? IT leader for all security initiatives for the organization, including adherence to PCI requirements.  ? Author and architect of nested grouping standards to improve object security, leading to least permissions granted while still able to perform job roles.  ? Led implementation of multiple 2 factor authentication solutions for secure end-user authentication to systems.  ? Reduced the number of security incidents in the organization by 75% through proactive security awareness programs since programs inception. Service Delivery Mgr. III/ IT Director of Operations Atos at Thomas Bus March 2014 to December 2014 • Managed Services Leadership  ? Manage IT account contract for customer ensuring delivery of all contracted services.  ? Manage IT delivery towers for desk side, call center, network, servers (both Windows and Linux/Unix), data center, mainframe, asset management, Oracle and SQL DBA, Information Security, and IT process improvement services.  ? Consistently delivered SLA over 90% for customer incidents.  ? Redefined IT governance, creating a customer-focused leadership that allowed customer service score improvements of 2 points on a 1-10 scale within the first 2 months of implementation.  ? Implemented post-contract clean-up initiative for customer that saved over $25,000/quarter and closed open security holes in manufacturer/dealer environment interface.  • TBB Operations Leadership  ? Lead development teams while leadership was in transition, led IT department overall on daily operations after CIO departed 4 months after my arrival.  ? Delivered long-term architectural healing plan to parent company IT leadership for overall site IT environment.  ? Created standard security audit mechanism and implemented, closing over 75 object access issues on the first department alone.  ? Led group of deskside support professionals and reworked their operations. Created organization, standardization, and EOQ order points to reduce delivery times for end user deployment. Environment Lead - EDSD Duke Energy October 2013 to March 2014 • Coordination, scheduling, and maintaining the "big picture" for 143 applications in the Energy Delivery space.  • Develop hub and project environment roadmap to assist in communication and improve availability of non-production environments.  • Perform needs analysis for process and procedural gaps.  • Responsible for building cross-department standards and relationships.  • Create standard infrastructure map for EDSD applications. Infrastructure Manager/Interim InfoSec Officer Cornerstone Health Care May 2012 to October 2013 • Infrastructure and Operations  ? Designed and led move of data center from on-site to co-located facility.  ? Architected and led implementation of successful overhaul of company EMR system; was deemed most successful upgrade/launch of system in our history.  ? Manage staff of IT professionals covering server, network, datacenter, VMWare, Shoretel, Active Directory, Exchange, Desktop Administration, and IT Security.  ? Developed roadmap strategy for Infrastructure department to align the Infrastructure with core business requirements.  ? Develop capital IT budget for 70-person department for 2013. Develop 40-50% of the operations budget for 2013. Information Security Officer for organization Security Leadership February 2013 to September 2013 Led company HIPAA and other security regulations issue investigations and responses.  ? Establish security policies with company leadership and enforce policies throughout the organization.  ? Created security incident response and security awareness training programs for all employees.  ? Implemented file and server security audit procedures, executed procedures, and reduced unneeded access in every applicable instance throughout the organization.  ? Created role-based identity permissions systems for least privilege access to resources. Systems Administrator III/Tech Team Lead May 2004 to May 2012 Systems Support Analyst Guilford Mills October 2003 to May 2004 Assistant Systems Administrator New Horizons Greensboro November 2002 to February 2003 Support Analyst OSSI September 2002 to November 2002 Systems Administrator New Horizons Pittsburgh February 2002 to September 2002 Systems Administrator County of Moore September 1998 to January 2002 Education Bachelor's in Business Administration High Point University 2010 Associate's in Computer Engineering Sandhills Community College 1999 Skills It Security, Information Security