Desktop support Desktop support Denver, CO Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Desktop support Teksystems - Hogan Lovells Law Firm - Denver, CO November 2018 to Present • All end user support for appx 250 end users. High priority, time sensitive issues  • Diagnose and resolve issues including the following applications: MS Windows 7, MS Windows 10, MS Outlook, MS Word, MS Excel, MS Exchange, MS Power point, Active Directory, Google Chrome, Gmail, Internet Explorer, peripheral set up.  • Direct involvement in office wide Windows 10 Migration  • Designed and implemented office wide/all user PC audio upgrade.  • Daily inter office AV/VC set ups, including Webex and Skype Desktop support Teksystems - Ulteig Engineering - Denver, CO September 2018 to October 2018 • All end user support for appx 150 end users.  • Worked remotely in Denver office with manager and team in Fargo, ND.  • Diagnose and resolve issues including the following applications: MS Windows 7, MS Windows 10, MS Outlook, MS Word, MS Excel, MS Exchange, MS Power point, Active Directory, Google Chrome, Gmail, Internet Explorer, Amazon Virtual Worstation  • Ongoing user laptop and network hardware upgrades. IT Support/ Security Analyst FBC Mortgage - Centennial, CO February 2017 to October 2018 • Support 1200 User with any IT related issues. Responsible for all IT support issues for western US offices.  • Work remotely in Denver office with manager and team based in Orlando, FL.  • Emphasis on IT/ network security related issues and projects along with education of users on IT/Network security related practices and procedures.  • Diagnose and resolve issues including the following applications: MS Windows 7, MS Windows 10, MS Outlook, MS Word, MS Excel, MS Exchange, MS Power point, Active Directory, Encompass, Google Chrome, Gmail, Internet Explorer, PBX, Amazon Virtual Worstation  • Ongoing user laptop and network hardware upgrades. Tech Support Lead Sports Authority - Englewood, CO November 2012 to September 2016 Englewood, CO Level 2, Desktop/End User Support  • Assisting department manager with management duties. Training of new technicians. Special department projects. Works directly with other IT and operations department's managers for ongoing and critical technical issues.  • Work directly with store and corporate personnel diagnosing and solving desktop, related computer, printer, network, and point of sale related issues.  • Documenting and routing of issues in Siebel and BMC Remedy tracking system.  • Daily report generation using Crystal Reports.  • Diagnose and resolve issues in the following applications: MS Windows 7, MS Windows XP, Apple OS, MS Outlook, MS Word, MS Excel, MS Exchange, MS Power point, Active Directory, Xpress Server, POS Xpress, AS400, Google Chrome, Gmail, Internet Explorer Help Desk/End User Support Catholic Health Initiatives - Englewood, CO June 2009 to October 2012 Work directly with physicians, nurses, and onsite hospital support and management personnel  Diagnosing and solving all desktop related computer, printer, and network issues in a fast paced life altering environment.  • Directly involved in department procedure creation and implementation. Worked directly with IT management in Knowledge base creation and implementation.  • Documentation and routing of issues in Remedy tracking system.  • Diagnose and resolve issues in the following applications: MS Windows 7, MS Windows XP, Apple OS, MS Outlook, MS Word, MS Excel, MS Exchange, MS Power point, Active Directory, Cisco VPN, Meditech, Cerner, Chartmaxx, ACIS, Homeworks, PHS healthcare scheduling, Lawson, Midas, PACS Imaging, Navicare, Revrunner, ect  • Responsible for trend reporting and communication to other support analysts and management.  • Communicate directly with application groups for testing and problem management. Digital Help Desk Lead technician PCA International - Matthews, NC January 1994 to April 2009 Responsible for resolving hardware and software issues of PC's, Mac's, networks, printers, proprietary photography equipment and software via phone and on-site.  ? Managed and service appx 3000 mail accounts.  ? Responsible for testing and analysis of monthly digital imaging software updates for appx 3000 retail photography studio locations.  ? Directly involved in testing, development, and implementing full POS hardware and software upgrade in appx 3000 retail photography studio locations.  ? Responsible for support, training and guidance of junior technicians.  ? Weekly and monthly reporting of departmental productivity and goals to upper management.  ? Microsoft Excel and Microsoft Access and Outlook configuration and query generation Education General Studies South Mecklenburg HS - Charlotte, NC September 2016 Skills Desktop Support, Help Desk, Service Desk, Active Directory, MAC, SCCM, Macintosh