Permanent Full-Time / Contractor Permanent Full-Time / Contractor Permanent Full-Time / Contractor - CyberProof Clearwater, FL Work Experience Permanent Full-Time / Contractor CyberProof November 2018 to Present Principle Cyber Security Architect:  Design and develop solutions to meet customer cyber security requirements. Provide cyber security technology presentations and product demonstrations of CyberProof solutions. Work with customers to implement and manage security technology POC's. Security Sales Engineer SOPHOS October 2017 to November 2018 I support the company's portfolio of security technologies which include Firewall, Host based protection (Server, Endpoint), url filtering, CASB, Encryption, Application Control, Synchronized Security. I provide scoping and design for product implementations. I make product presentations at trade shows and conferences. Provide product demos, POC's and initial troubleshooting for new implementations. Sr Security Engineer Auto Club Insurance Company - Tampa, FL September 2015 to October 2017 In my role as the company's Security Engineer, I manage the company's security technologies: Email filtering\ security, url filtering, IPS, Firewall, Advanced Malware Protection, Wireless Network Security, Host Base Security, Anti-Virus, WAF, SIEM, DLP. Analyze the data developed from these security products and other data sources for potential security risks to the organization. Provide Vulnerability Management administration and reporting for internal and external audit requirements. Manage the company's PCI compliance requirements. Senior Managing Security Consultant IBM Enterprise Security May 2014 to September 2015 My role with the IBM Security Intelligence and Operations Optimization Team is to provide consultation, design and implementation of: Security Operations Centers and SIEM technology (QRadar) for IBM enterprise customers. Master Security Consultant Hewlett-Packard Company May 2013 to May 2014 As a member of the HP Enterprise Security Services Team, I provide security architecture, consulting, design and implementation of security technologies for HP enterprise customers. I worked as the team lead on an internal security enhancement project for the Global Cyber Security Division. Senior Member Technical Staff \ Lead Security Engineer Verizon Corporation - Tampa, FL May 2012 to May 2013 My role as Lead Engineer was to help implement the Security Operations Center for Verizon. This involved the selection and deployment of the SOC's security tools and devices, integration with the existing security infrastructure, creation of security policies\procedures and training of the analyst on the SOC team. As the SIEM engineer I managed the implementation of the SIEM tool (QRadar). This included the initial configuration, optimization, event parsing, rule creation, designing of use cases and report generation to meet the requirements of the SOC. Senior Security IT Analyst SAIC November 2009 to May 2012 my position required working with the multiple disciplines and technologies required insure the 7x24 functionality of U.S. CENTCOM \ SOUTHCOM systems including: Administration of messaging systems: Exchange and Blackberry Enterprise Server, Network monitoring, IAVA remediation, System compliance \ Vulnerability scanning (Retina, Nessus), Patch Management (WSUS, Hercules) and Host System security (HBSS, EPO). As a Senior Information Security Analyst I supported the Computer Network Defense (CND) team. Providing: IA scanning\auditing, incident handling and response, specifically targeted towards computer incident response and restoration of a secure operating environment, investigation of intrusion events and analysis of exploits. Principle Analyst Information Security \ IAM (Information Assurance Manager) US EIGHT ARMY December 2010 to January 2012 The IAPM office provides Information Assurance, and Policy Compliance support for the U.S. 8th Army. Manage network system security compliance and DoD 8570 information assurance workforce management. Security Consultant NetIQ Corporation June 2007 to November 2009 This is a multifunction position combining: product installation / integration, project management, pre / post sales support, and training for SIEM and Security Management technology. The majority the projects worked on were for the U.S. military or Government Agencies. Senior Security Consultant Computer Associates - Tampa, FL February 2005 to May 2007 As part of the CA Technical Services Team: Provided installation, configuration, optimization, training and technical product presentations \ demos of the companies security products Full and Adjunct Professor Southwest, Florida, US January 2001 to May 2003 Network / Security Instructor: Provided classroom / lab based instruction to fulltime college students, and industry professionals. Subjects taught: Security, Networking, Microsoft technology, and CompTIA courses. Education MS in IT / SPECIAL ED UNIV OF BRIGHTON - Brighton