Federal Information Security Analyst (Present) Federal Information <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> (Present) Federal Information Security Analyst (Present) - KPMG Beltsville, MD Work Experience Federal Information Security Analyst (Present) KPMG - Washington, DC January 2016 to Present * Conducting kick off meetings in accordance with the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Risk Management Framework to map the information type the system process, stores or transmits. (NIST 800-60 rev I vol II)  * Analyzing and updating System Security Plan (SSP), Risk Assessment (RA), Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA), System Security test and Evaluation (ST&E) and the Plan of Actions and Milestones (POA&M).  * Assisting with the preparation of NIST's Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) Publication 199 that officially assigns a security categorization to a federal agency's system.  * Assisting System Owners and ISSO in preparing the Certification and Accreditation (C&A) package and ensuring that management, operational and technical security controls adhere to a formal and well-established security requirement authorized by NIST SP 800-53 R4  * Coordinating with stakeholders to gather contingency plan information and develop system (ISCP) and business (BCP)-focused contingency plans.  * Conducting Business Impact Analyses (BIA) to analyze mission-critical business functions, and identify and quantify the impact those functions if these are lost (e.g. operational, financial).  * Developing the security baseline controls, the Security Assessment Plan (SAP) and the Security Control Assessments (SCA) that are used to assess implemented security controls by utilizing the NIST SP 800-53 Revision 4.  * Assisting with the preparation of the System Security Plan (SSP) to provide an overview of the system security requirements and describe the controls in place by utilizing the NIST SP 800 18.  * Updating the Configuration Management Plan (CMP) by incorporating information received from the system owner.  * Preparing the Security Assessment Report (SAR). IT Auditor Infrastructure Resources - Washington, DC May 2015 to December 2015 * Evaluated the adequacy of internal controls and compliance with company policies and procedures by conducting interviews with all levels of personnel, examining transactions, documents, records, reports, observing procedures  * Reviewed and Tested IT General Controls (ITGC) of various applications, databases and Operating Systems using various audit Frameworks- SOX, COBIT, COSO.  * Investigated suspected cases of improper activity, coordinate reporting, and recommend corrective steps  * Conducted IT controls risk assessments that included reviewing organizational policies, standards and procedures and provided advice on their adequacy, accuracy and compliance with the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard  * Assisted in the identification of risks as part of the risk management process, including business continuity and disaster recovery planning  * Performed bi-annual security policy review to make sure all information are current with the laws, directives and regulation  * Prepared audit plans and scope, detailed audit program, risk assessment control matrices, report findings, and present recommendations for improving data integrity and internal controls over financial reporting. Oversee audits from planning, fieldwork (walkthroughs and detailed testing), reporting and follow up phases Billing Accountant Computer Sciences Corporation - Merrifield, VA August 2013 to April 2015 * Managed and generated invoices for over 200 clients on a monthly retainer; gained in depth knowledge of Cost Point software and Excel.  * Supervised a group of 3 interns construct a 6 page checklist; ensured all monthly bills were in compliance with the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR) and Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA) requirements.  * Formulated, prepared, and issued invoices with 10% increased efficiency to guarantee time deliverables. Education Master of Business Administration in Business Administration Robert H. Smith School of Business, University of Maryland - College Park, MD 2016 Bachelor of Science in Accounting Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University - Blacksburg, VA 2013 Skills RISK MANAGEMENT (3 years), SECURITY (3 years), TRADING (3 years), NIST (2 years), SYSTEM SECURITY (2 years) Additional Information Key Skills  * Information system security  * Contingency planning tools and technology  * Regulatory Compliance (FISMA/NIST/ FISCAM)  * System security auditing, monitoring, and evaluation  * Risk Management