Solutions Architect Solutions Architect Solutions Architect, CCDP, CCNP RS, 2xCCNA ( Security, RS), CCDA, Security+ ce Out of State A dedicated, enthusiastic communications systems and information technology professional with 12+ years in Telecommunications, Enterprise LAN/WAN and IPTV networks collectively. 3+ years in lead roles designing, implementing and supporting IP networks in cross functional and regional teams. Vast experience with projects in the financial, hospitality and service provider environment. My recent exposure has been in managed services with both the private and public sectors. I currently assist C-level and senior executives in developing and implementing network solutions in their businesses in order to meet their business objectives. My current goal for the next two years is to strive toward and actively apply a deep understanding of business management and administration within the field of technology.     Certified:    CCNP R&S  CCNA R&S  CCDP  CCDA  CCNA Security - 4011 Recognition  CCENT  CompTIA Security+ ce  VCA-DCV    Experience with:    Cisco Routing (Static and Dynamic - RIP, OSPF, EIGRP, BGP), Redistribution, Route filtering, PBR, Router Security   Cisco Catalyst Switching (Etherchannels, VTP, RSTP, PVST+, 802.1Q, SVIs, VSS, FHRP - GLBP, HSRP, VRRP, Switch Security)  Cisco Nexus Switching   Cisco Meraki cloud management (APs, Switches, Firewalls)  Juniper Routing (M Series) and Switching (EX Series)   VPN Technologies (Site to Site, RA, IPSec, SSL, GRE)  Firewall Management (Cisco ASA with Firepower, FortiGate, Checkpoint)  Load Balancing (Citrix NetScaler, A10)  Brocade FCX Switches  Network monitoring tools (Solarwinds - NPM, SAM, NTA, NCM, PA Server Monitor, Splunk, Cacti)  Packet Analysis (Wireshark)    Unicast IPTV Deployments  Minerva Middleware (5.3 - 5.7)  Minerva iTVLink 1.10  Amino and Entone Set Top Box (STB) Management  BIND DNS  BlueCat DHCP  Elemental Conductors and Encoders  EMC2 Isilon Storage  Evertz 350FR    TEOCO/Aircom Asset/Enterprise   GSM KPI Management    VMware 5, 5.5  Windows Server   Redhat, Ubuntu, CentOS Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Solutions Architect Fujitsu Caribbean - Bridgetown September 2018 to Present Responsibilities include:    ? Conducting technical reviews of customers’ requirements and proposed solutions and approaches to determine fit with Fujitsu’s offerings, customer business needs and the technical viability of the solution and approach.  ? Identifying project delivery risks and mitigations for the proposed solutions and approaches.  ? Identifying the accuracy of the estimates for proposed solutions and approaches.  ? Shaping end-to-end technical proposals to be acceptable to the customer and recommending solution/ service trade-offs, where appropriate.  ? Leading and influencing others in the development of new solution and service offerings.  ? Working with customers to understand their business strategy and develop IT strategies and end to end architecture for significant areas of their business.  ? Researching, evaluating and selecting technology and infrastructure products and vendors for overall solutions. This includes: -  o Analyzing functionality and features  o Assessing cost benefit factors and budgetary/ resource impacts  o Impact/ risks to customer organizations, security and users  o Investigating compatibility with the existing operating environment  o Selecting products for evaluation criteria and recommending final selection  ? Assessing and evaluating emerging products and solutions and working with Fujitsu and its customers to ensure adherence with established standards, policies and guidelines. Systems Engineer - Network & Security Fujitsu Caribbean October 2017 to Present Lead Network Implementation Engineer for Barbados providing support for other Caribbean territories.    Responsibilities include but not limited to:  • Implementation planning and execution for routing and switching WAN/LAN and security projects  • Deliver remote break-fix, maintenance and operational services to Fujitsu’s clients in line with agreed SLA specifications and international best practices  • Prepare and manage documentation of IT solutions and changes to existing IT solutions including writing technical and incident reports  • Creation of Statement/Scope of Work (SOW), High Level Design (HLD) and Low Level Design (LLDs) documentation  • Assist with Bill of Materials (BOM) creation, review and approval  • Implementation of Firewall solutions    Equipment Portfolio  Fortinet Switches and Firewalls  Cisco Routing and Switching Equipment - Catalyst and Nexus Switches, ISR/ASR Routers Product Analyst/Specialist Productive Business Solutions - Barbados July 2017 to Present Essentially a product management role with responsibility for the product throughout its life cycle. These responsibilities include:    • Research and identify Cisco/Meraki, Tripplite and HP products that meet business objectives and improve the efficiency of businesses;  • Create business cases for products;  • Collaborate with vendors to develop product solutions and pricing for the Barbados and OECS market (Vendor management);  • Provide subject matter expert knowledge on Cisco/Meraki and HP products including guidance for implementing solutions;  • Track and manage the product cycle from the customer order to product delivery;   • Share knowledge with the sales team and equip them with the training to market Cisco /Meraki and HP products;  • Provide pre and post sales Cisco/Meraki, Tripplite and HP support to business clients;  • Conduct and facilitate presentations to both staff and clients in order to increase product awareness and the benefits they could offer to the business. IT Consultant Northpoint Consulting Inc. - Barbados March 2017 to July 2017 Network Design, Optimization and Support  Network Security  Network Monitoring - Application Deployment and Optimization IT Consultant - Sagicor Life Insurance Company Northpoint Consulting Inc. - Barbados June 2015 to April 2016 Responsibilities    Network design and optimization  Network and Application monitoring (Solarwinds, PA Server Monitor)  Network/Application Maintenance   Systems management   Network and systems troubleshooting 2nd LA Engineer - IPTV Ericsson March 2014 to December 2014 Maintain all network hardware in the IPTV Core Distribution Network ("CDN");  • Troubleshoot daily problems arising from electrical, environmental, hardware and security conditions;  • Configure and make changes to network equipment such as Linux servers, switches (brocade, juniper and cisco), routers (cisco, juniper), VPNs (Cisco ASAs), middleware servers (Minerva), encoders (Elemental) etc. to facilitate new deployments or optimization;  • Liaise with vendor support and technical staff to troubleshoot and implement solutions to any problems that arise;  • Provide support and information using tools such as Nagios and Cacti to assist with troubleshooting problems concerning IPTV;  • Test and make recommendations concerning network and Set top box ("STB") enhancements, software etc;  • Produce weekly reports with monitored performance KPIs, outlining any issues encountered and the steps taken to treat them. Design Engineer - Entertainment Cable & Wireless Communications March 2012 to February 2014 Maintain all network hardware in the IPTV Core Distribution Network ("CDN");  • Produce designs for the incorporation of additional content and/or enhanced features into the IPTV network;  • Produce designs for optimization projects for the IPTV network;  • Configure and make changes to network equipment such as Linux servers, switches (brocade, juniper and cisco), routers (cisco, juniper), VPNs (Cisco ASAs), middleware servers (Minerva), encoders (Elemental) etc. to facilitate new deployments or optimization;  • Liaise with vendors and technical staff to facilitate the addition of new products for enhancement and/or optimization;  • Provide support and information using tools such as Nagios and Cacti to assist with troubleshooting problems concerning IPTV;  • Produce designs for commercial and non-standard IPTV deployments;  • Test and make recommendations concerning network and Set top box ("STB") enhancements, software etc;  • Conduct presentations for project progress, implementing emerging technologies or as required. Engineering Specialist (Network Engineer) Cable & Wireless Communications July 2009 to March 2012 Implement networking solutions to facilitate voice, video and data traffic throughout the Corporate/Enterprise LAN;  • Troubleshoot daily problems arising from electrical, environmental, hardware and security conditions;  • Implement the necessary routing for traffic to travel throughout the Corporate/Enterprise LAN;  • Maintain all network hardware managed by the LAN team (Cisco Routers, Cisco Switches, etc.);  • Manage the local WAN routers and ensure their proper operation;  • Assist in all matters relating to Corporate/Enterprise LAN engineering support;  • Produce a weekly report on the performance of the network and the problems arising, including implemented and planned.    ? Manager (Ag.) Enterprise Networks    Periodically acted as Manager - Enterprise Networks which encompassed:  • Managing the Corporate LAN team as well as the operators and end user support teams;  • Engaging in management level discussions to ensure the requirements for the teams are met;  • Presenting weekly status updates to the Head of Department on the issues resolved and pending resolution;  • Coordinating communication between teams to provide effective problem solving;  • Assigning tasks to team members using ITSM for efficient productivity. Assistant Engineer (RF Performance Engineer) Cable & Wireless Communications December 2007 to July 2009 Monitored daily performance and busy hour Key Performance Indicators ("KPIs") for the cellular sites;  • Analyzed the KPIs for the cellular network and identified key trends in site behavior;  • Provided information for the technicians regarding possible physical or other existing problems;  • Troubleshoot daily problems arising from electrical, environmental, hardware conditions;  • Produced a weekly report on the top ten sites with regards to performance KPIs and an overview of traffic trends including data. Assistant Engineer (RF Engineer) Cable & Wireless Communications February 2007 to December 2007 Assisted with cellular site audits including physical equipment verification and documentation;  • Assisted with the planning and development of new cell sites;  • Provided coverage predictions of sector changes for proposed adjustments to the cellular site equipment for optimization purposes or as required. Education Master of Business Administration (MBA) Edinburgh Napier University - Edinburgh, City of Edinburgh May 2019 to January 2021 Master of Science (MSc.) in Project Management & Evaluation University of the West Indies, Cave Hill Campus, Barbados 2008 to 2010 Bachelor of Science (BSc. Eng.) in Electrical & Computer Engineering (Hons.) University of the West Indies, St Augustine Campus, Trinidad 2002 to 2006 Associate Degree in Electrical Engineering Barbados Community College 1999 to 2002 Skills Linux Certifications/Licenses Cisco Certified Entry Networking Technician (CCENT) January 2011 to August 2021 Cisco CSCO11751928 Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA Routing & Switching) January 2011 to August 2021 Cisco CSCO11751928 VMware Certified Associate – Data Center Virtualization (VCA-DCV) May 2015 to Present CompTIA Security+ ce July 2016 to July 2019 Cisco Certified Network Professional (CCNP Routing & Switching) January 2017 to August 2021 Cisco CSCO11751928 Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA Security) June 2017 to August 2021 Cisco CSCO11751928 Cisco Certified Design Associate (CCDA) March 2017 to August 2021 Cisco CSCO11751928 Cisco Certified Design Professional (CCDP) August 2018 to August 2021 Cisco CSCO11751928 Additional Information Knowledgeable in Microsoft Office Suite (Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel, Microsoft PowerPoint, Microsoft Project, Microsoft Visio)  Python programming language applied to network engineering  Structured Query Language (SQL)  Knowledgeable in C++, JAVA, Linux and HTML    *All Degrees evaluated by World Education Services (WES)