Sr. SETA Project Manager Sr. SETA Project Manager Sr. SETA Project Manager - Axiologic Solutions, LLC Work Experience Sr. SETA Project Manager Axiologic Solutions, LLC - Fairfax, VA September 2018 to Present • Oversee and manage IT Projects for Defense Intelligence Agency - modernization of organizations, sensitive platforms, and mission critical systems that ensure confidentiality, integrity, accountability, and operations. Services include but are not limited to  • Document and track risks and issues, schedule management, management of review processes, and status reporting.  • Facilitate DIA CIO Leadership meetings, compile agendas, facilitate discussion, and develop meeting minutes.  • Coordinate and manage activities across stakeholders, including the facilitation of meetings between client, contractor, and Subject Matter Experts (SMEs); develop meeting minutes to keep client personnel informed of project status  • Work closely with order managers to ensure projects are kept on track  • Coordinate deliverable review process across multiple stakeholders  • Partner with stakeholders to manage project schedule, and identify risks/issues, develop mitigation plans, and escalate to leadership as necessary.  • Work with team members to identify points of collaboration and dependencies between various work orders.  • Account for project management deliverables (i.e., Decision and Issues Log, Action Item Tracker, Deliverable Tracker, Status Reports, Standard Operating Procedures, etc.)  • Train and mentor colleagues, new hires, and government counterparts. IC CIO Security Control Overlays K2 IT Audit, LLC July 2018 to September 2018 Fredricksburg, VA to ensure business data Confidentiality, Integrity, and Availability for Defense Health Agency enterprise wide.  • Ensure knowledge of FISCAM procedures, and Federal IT Audit publications NIST SP 800-60, 800-30, 800-37, FIPS 199. IC CIO Security Control Overlays. Principal IT Consultant Singular Technologies Consulting, L.L.C - Elkridge, MD July 2016 to September 2018 • Responsible for client and business relationships and developing the mission and strategic vision for the company.  • Arrange major and minor programs, and ensure the resources to meet the requirements. Uphold company policies and integrate core guidelines. Create benchmarks to track progress towards company goals.  • Schedule partner and team meetings.  • Develop ways that improve business performance. Sr. Program Analyst Adams Communication & Engineering Technology - Waldorf, MD October 2016 to September 2017 Waldorf, MD. Served in multiple roles in support of Program Management Office, as a Sr. Program Analyst, provided PMO support across multiple programs for DoD Airborne Reconnaissance Low Systems Support (PASS) Program, R23G - Guardrail Common/Sensor valued at over $50M. Interacted DoD PMO officials. As an Sr. IT Specialist, successfully transition the contractor, and closed out the DIA-CFO Resource Center/Help Desk contract valued $60M.  • Interfaced with DIA CFO officials. Senior Systems Engineer Advance Technology Consulting - Chantilly, VA May 2016 to October 2016 • Responsible for developing, implementing, and guiding the centralized, commercial-off-the-shelf software licensing business model for DIA CIO Enterprise Software Licensing Branch (ELSB) valued at over $10M.  • Interfaced with DIA CIO officials, and the Intelligence community. Senior IT Project Manager SpecPro Technical Services - Fort Belvoir, VA December 2013 to May 2016 • Responsible for solutions to enhance information management and information technology confidentiality, integrity, and availability that represent overall security and cost savings throughout the hospital and National Capital Region valued at over $30M.  • Overseen Defense Enterprise Email Migration, migrating over 5000 users successfully to mail.mil.  • Managed cross-functional teams, and key stakeholders to successfully achieve (DIACAP) Accreditation and Certification, establishing the regional security framework.  • Responsible for ensuring timely IT Audits  • Additional responsibilities included managing multiple critical Clinical Informatics to ensure hospital staff success and improve overall patient care.  • Interfaced with Hospital Senior Staff, and Government officials across DHA.  • Received employee of the year award in 2015. Senior Project Manager CACI Technologies - Arlington, VA June 2011 to December 2013 • Responsible for providing technical, financial, schedule and risk management expertise, and strategic initiatives to assist Army Program Management Office at Aberdeen Proving Grounds valued at over $40M.  • Managed strategic initiatives to rapidly deploy DoD C4ISR SIGINT/HUMINT intelligence systems and subsystems.  • Responsible for ensuring DCID 6/3, IT Audits publications, standards and procedures compliant across enterprise.  • Overseen DIACAP Accreditation and Certification for Cross-Domain solution valued at over $7M.  • Managed project teams and government staff to implement C4ISR System Integration Lab for I2WD at Aberdeen Proving Ground, MD valued at over $5M.  • Responsible for ensuring architecture updates into DODAF for archived records.  • Interfaced with Government officials across DoD, NSA, and DISA.  • Received employee of the month award in October 2011. Senior Program Analyst Department of Homeland Security - Washington, DC December 2010 to June 2011 • Responsible for planning and conducting internal quality assurance reviews, complex physical security audits, and evaluations of DHS OIG approved audit work, reports, and programs accordance with professional standards issued by GAO or the Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (CIGIE).  • Ensured FISCAM procedures to support of Federal IT Audits standards that ensure compliance with NIST SP 800-53 computer security  • Interfaced with Government officials across DHS.  • Received United States Air Force Audit, 1st Place Award in February 2011 Principal Project Manager Skiltek Operating Security - Columbia, MD July 2001 to December 2010 • Responsible for client and business relationships and developing the mission and strategic vision for the company.  • Arranged major and minor programs, and ensured the resources to meet the requirements. Upheld company policies and integrated core guidelines. Created benchmarks to track progress towards company goals.  • Developed ways that improve business performance. Project Manager Broadwing Communications - Houston, TX September 2000 to October 2001 • Responsible for ensuring project teams success to implement all-optical-fiber network bi-directionally spanning from Washington, DC to Los Angeles, CA, valued over $12M.  • Managed the day-to-day cost, scope, and schedule, and monitored project activity.  • Identified risk to field services operations, and advised key stakeholders of Plan of Action strategies.  • Additional duties included ensuring information management, and infrastructure confidentiality, integrity, and availability across departments. Project Engineer Lucent Technologies - Hunt Valley, MD August 1999 to September 2000 • Responsible for ensuring project teams success to rearchitect Verizon central offices throughout the Mid-Atlantic and Northeastern regions valued over $5M.  • Overseen planning and execution, to layout architectural design (floor space planning), and redesigns for Co-Locate and CLEC customer implementing network infrastructure, and the Lucent 5E Switch.  • Documented changes, communicated strategies, and negotiated approvals with key stakeholders.  • Additional duties included ensuring information management, and infrastructure confidentiality, integrity, and availability. Education M.B.A. in Project Management Capella University - Minneapolis, MN December 2010 B.S. in IT Project Management Capella University - Minneapolis, MN December 2008 Skills Disaster recovery, Nist, Open source, Security, Sharepoint, .net, C++, Html, Visio, Visual basic, Xml, Lan/wan, Network architecture, Vmware, Android, Ios, Voip, Network security, Sops, Uml