IT Linux Security Administrator <span class="hl">IT</span> Linux <span class="hl">Security</span> Administrator Linux Security Admin - TransWorld Entertainment Albany, NY Work Experience IT Linux Security Administrator Trans World Entertainment - Albany, NY April 2017 to Present • I'm a DevOps engineer that works with AWS and GCP technologies. I'm involved in everything this company does. We operate a hybird environment and I bridge the gap between our cloud and on prem VMware 6.5 environment. Regular design and maintenance of systems, networks, access, images, instances, load balancer certs, Cloudwatch dashboarding and security alerting for VPN tunnels and critical systems in our hybrid network.   • Built Graylog SIEM server stack via Docker-Compose that runs NGINX, Elastic Search, MongoDB and Graylog docker containers off an on prem vm. Graylog also captures data from our Edge switches, syslog, AD servers as well as our Snort IDS backend. It also captures Cloudwatch logs from AWS so we can monitor and audit our environment.   • Daily IDS monitoring and reporting (Snort, Barnyard, Mysql, and Snorby stack).  • Teamed with development to secure https transactions to use TLS 1.2 from a LAMBDA API gateway to our on prem network.  • Site to Site AWS VPN build for on prem access as well as Open VPN access for outside user access.  • Regular Drupal and Wordpress site maintenance (module and system upgrades, LB cert renewals)  • Drupal subdomain setup with apache redirect to sister site.  • Upgrade to VMware 6.5 for our on prem Cisco Flexpod hosts.   • Sole GSuite administration for our corporate headquarters.  • Gitlab source control repository migration from on prem to cloud. Confluence data migrated to cloud instance as well.  • Built Cybernetics SAN connection to our IBM Netezza (RHEL) database server for local backups. Wrote cron bash scripts for automated daily full and incremental backup jobs via cron.  • Ground up builds via cloud and on prem using Ubuntu, Debian, RHEL, CentOs, Kali, Windows Server 2003 - 2016 in cloud, load balanced instances, VMware setups/templates and physical setups.  • Built a python program using selenium that was deployed to our store POS machines that will provide autologin SSO access to a website for special orders fed from a parsed json file that is regularly rotated. Credentials are stored encrypted in the local system keystore. Lead Systems Administrator Schenectady County - Schenectady, NY April 2015 to April 2017 • Managed three VMware Datacenters running ESXi 6.0 housing over 100 servers and 400 VDI linked clones terminals in a hybrid environment of Linux and Windows. This operates over two Nimble Storage Arrays and a Dell EqualLogic SAN back end. I also administer 300 physical desktops.  • Built a Zimbra email server stack for the county running on Ubuntu servers (1 web proxy, 2 ldap, 2 Mailbox and an archive server). Migrated over 900 user accounts from Exchange 2007. Wrote interface for new user provisioning for other admins to utilize. Wrote custom ldap filters to create dynamic distribution lists.  • Built new rack from the ground up, with KVM switch mainly for the new Nimble storage array. Racked and mounted four Dell servers for VMware hosts.  • Built a new Solarwinds server for real-time host and uplink monitoring. Also built a Kiwi server for streaming syslog server events.  • We rely on Veeam for server and file system backups, restores and replicas to our external DR site.  • We monitor Sonicwall and GFI for IDS purposes. We use our Barracuda appliance for spam filtering and monitoring. Zix gateway for encrypted email services. Wireshark and Fluke for packet analysis.  • Deployment automation using Bash, Powershell, Ruby, Python via Group Policy to quickly and efficiently roll out system changes, provisioning tasks, software installations, patches, upgrades, scheduled tasks or cron jobs.  • Developed and deployed a standard client image via linked clones for wise terminals.  • Developed methods and procedures for the County, standardizing documentation. Built Confluence wiki for this purpose. Migrated data over from existing intranet Mysql forum to the confluence postgres backend.  • Built the county website server on windows 2012 via apache backend.  • Setup storage repository access for county patrol cars. Configured the car dashboard cams to upload their videos to via wireless SFTP for DA personnel use for litigation processing.  • Extensive experience with Ubuntu/Debian, CentOs/RedHat, and all versions of Windows server infrastructure installs, upgrades and maintenance, certificate management, MS SQL, Mysql, Postgresql, Exchange, Zimbra, IIS, Apache\Tomcat and HTTPS. QA Analyst II Multimedia Games for NY Lottery June 2013 to February 2015 • Extensive experience in MS-SQL Server 2012/2008/2005/2000 Database Administration, System Analysis, Clustering, Design Coding, Maintenance, Testing, Installation and Support in both enterprise production and test environments  • Designed and built numerous VMware\Virtualbox test environments segmented for SQL development, QA testing and Dry Run use  • SQL script design for querying, data generation, code testing and stored procedures across link servers   • Database Maintenance for Database sizes, Integrity checks, Database Health, Log management and CDC T-Log database monitoring   • Experience with Redgate SQL Compare for data migrations and system integrity verification across databases  • Experience with creating Users, Permissions, Indexes, Triggers, Stored Procedures, Jobs, Alerts, scheduling DTS and SSIS Packages   • Database troubleshooting using Performance Monitor, SQL Profiler and DBCC commands, Optimization by tracking down time consuming queries that could cause deadlocks   • SSRS report design, testing, data validation and subscription creation  • Proficient in all stages of the SDLC, STLC and Bug Life Cycle   • Worked closely with a development team in an Agile environment participating in daily scrum, sprints, user stories, backlogs, retrospectives and velocity tracking within a SDLC  • Performed various types of testing including Installation, Compatibility, Smoke, Regression, Acceptance (UAT) and Functional/Non-Functional   • Automated testing using AutoIt and C#  • Developed Test cases using Enterprise Tester for test case tracking and Jira for bug tracking  • Software change tracking using Perforce and Star Team  • In house Wiki documentation for KB articles  • HTML, XML design and Bug identification for MGAM’s Casino Management System software, POS, Electronic table games and VLTs in class 2 and class 3 environments Network Operations and Systems Specialist III Multimedia Games for NY Lottery October 2005 to July 2013 • Network operations work in a 24/7 datacenter (NOC)  • Network and Systems experience including configuration, monitoring and troubleshooting of T1/MPLS circuits, cable modem, Cisco routers and switches. Experience with TCP/IP, ARP, EIGRP, RIP, MPLS, DNS, DHCP, POP3, SMTP, FTP, NTP, Telnet, VPN, Syslog, VOIP, Mars and Citrix. LAMP stack setup, LAN, WAN and SAN Architectures using Hitachi Command Suite  • Windows server experience with MS-SQL 2012/2008/2005/2000 database administration and maintenance, managing 10 SQL instances across 20 dedicated SQL servers in a clustered production environment  • Responsible for SQL database tape backups, rotations and restores using HP Dataprotector and SQL LiteSpeed.  • Managed over 13,000 network clients over a HP/Cisco/Windows/Linux environment supporting 9 racetrack casinos, their local servers and video lottery games  • Hardware/software/connectivity/environment monitoring using MOM, SCCM, Solarwinds, Splunk, Cacti, NeDi, Netbotz and HP Systems Insight Manager to diagnose and resolve SQL Databases, VLT connectivity, Servers and network problems   • Creating/modifying domain user accounts, permissions and policies in Active Directory  • SQL, Ruby, HTML, CSS and XML design for database/server task enhancement and automation Service Desk Manager / Network Admin / MYSQL DBA Pomeroy IT Solutions for Ingersoll-Rand March 2000 to October 2005 • Manager of daily operations for all Service Desk support, personnel and employees  • Lead our team to meet monthly SLA goals  • Maintained, reported and complied with organizational ITIL change management procedures  • Developed operational procedures, hired, supervised and trained technical support staff  • Provided hardware/software remote support across 30+ corporate branches across the US and Germany  • Travel to various corporate branches across the US to facilitate onsite workstation, server, router/switch hardware refreshments  • Report design using Crystal Reports to track call volume, trend analysis and asset inventory  • Administration and maintenance of call tracking MYSQL database  • Facilitated the corporate domain conversion from a PDC to an active directory forest  • Designed a website for customers to view their financial transactions with the company including cleared financial checks and purchase transaction history Education Associates of Applied Science in Computer Specialization Lehigh Carbon Community College - Schnecksville, PA January 1997 Skills Bash, Python, SQL, Ruby, DevOps, IDS and SIEM development, Network Engineering, Systems Administration, Service Desk Management. (10+ years), System Administrator, System Admin, Active Directory, Vmware, Linux