IT PMO Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> PMO <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Global Project Manager Lancaster, PA http://http://www.linkedin.com/in/joycwamae    Project Management Professional    Articulate Project Manager and I.T. Analyst Professional with extensive expertise in Portfolio, Program, Project management, Change Management and Risk Management. Specialized in dealing with fast-paced, Project Management Offices (PMO) and structured enterprise in corporate. Relevant experienced in leading global projects working with both matrix and functional environments with project teams of 5 - 80 team members. Exceptional communicator and representative adept at establishing rapport with executives, management, staff, and third party vendors. Great experience with compiling reports and constantly focused on customer service, while aligning business and IT efforts appropriate to best attain the organization's overall goals. Diverse competence across multiple industries with demonstrated capacity to understand related business products, processes and technologies. Performs well and confidently in situations that call for high visibility. Significant experience with financial services industry and managing application infrastructure projects.    Project Manager Skills  - Leadership: Exceptional Customer Service, Problem Solver, Great Team Player, Creative with Analytical Approach, Integrity with People Management Skills.  - Self-Management: Highly Organized, Detail-Oriented with Decision Making Skills, Time Management Skills, and a Good Multi-tasker.  - Negotiation: Political Savvy with knowledge on how and when to Negotiate.  - PMO Analyst/PM Experience: Coordinated activities associated with the maintenance and IT governance of the global accounts, tracking milestone deliverables and making certain that everything runs smoothly.  - Technical Skills: Knowledge of ServiceNow functionality and reporting capabilities, web applications such as SharePoint Administrator, Salesforce Implementation, Workday Analytics, Power Bi Report, Active Directory Report, Office 365, Citrix desktop, MS applications, Reporting, Data Analysis and Software Testing.  - Advanced Excel Skills: Tables & Formatting, Conditional Formatting, Advanced Formulas, Advanced Charting, Pivot Table & Pivot Reporting, Data Tables & Macros. Work Experience IT PMO Analyst FULTON FINANCIAL CORPORATION - Lancaster, PA March 2019 to June 2019 Promoted adherence to PMO/ IT governance on Project Plan Work Stream by preparing management presentations, milestone deliverances, weekly status reports and leading Hyper-Care readiness meetings.    • Captured key Work Stream meeting notes and followed up on issues, risks, clarifications, questions, and actions.  • Ensured that the work stream governance rhythm is maintained on a week-by-week In-progress health status.  ? Example for Milestone tracking; by exporting the Project Plan from MS Project to Excel, manually adjusting formatting by running macros, and converting values overs as number and dates, applying indentation, bold to summary tasks, and color to milestone; to create Weekly Progress Collection Tracker that was accessible to all workstream leaders in SharePoint for the purpose of reporting progress on their tasks.  • Managed and maintained project information stored in the project SharePoint site such as the Project Plan, Excel - IT Tracker action items, and hyper-care readiness data collection activities.  • Using MS Project governed the project health and ensured that assigned project plans are adequately merged into and managed within, the Integrated Navigator Project Plan (integrated schedule, resource plan, dependencies, and financials).  ? Example from the Excel - Weekly Progress Collection Tracker updated the Baseline Master Project Plan with all updates, created new project schedule in PDF version and published the versions with links to SharePoint.  • Applied the project management tools of the PMO (Project Management Life Cycle Methodology) across the spectrum of PM sub-disciplines by sending out reminders on track (tasks) updates and updating the project plan.  • Led Hypercare Readiness by assembling progress information through exporting the project plan in SharePoint, analyzing reports and ensuring readiness for routine, ad hoc meetings, sessions, and communications.  • Organized and facilitated the project team's identification and maintenance of internal and external project dependencies. CRM Support Service Lead (Remote) CUSHMAN & WAKEFEILD - New York, NY April 2018 to November 2018 Provided process improvement, reporting and analysis support, and project assistance to Global Technical Infrastructure services working closely with both internal and external stakeholders by giving exceptional customer support.    • Initiated, coordinated and advocated continual improvement to the ServiceNow support services related to all CRM applications like on-boarding and off-boarding Salesforce license requests.  ? Example through ServiceNow Report managed daily volume of tickets released to Salesforce team and re-assigned them with Salesforce groups such as data administration, user management, CRM revenue recognition to resolve issues quickly.  • Deployed Workday and Active Directory reporting tools to achieve new level insight requirement for any User requesting Salesforce license.  ? Example by exporting details in Excel tables applied advanced formulas like VLOOKUP to avoid duplicate of licenses.  • Governed the health status of weekly project circle of all account requests by monitoring and gathering User Profile Data for account creation with requirements in Excel that was submitted to System Admin for account creation on the license type requested.  • Occasionally assisted Salesforce system admins with Testing activities, Sandbox Password Resets and supported in other User account maintenance activities when needed.  • Served as the primary point of contact for all new license CRM related issues and resolution, as well as part of the escalation team focusing on root cause analysis and implementing corrective action plans.  • Participated on weekly in Salesforce CRM Program Leadership team meetings presenting Excel template export from ServiceNow and Power Bi visual report with advanced charts representing support volume activities affecting the work stream monthly status. Global CRM Implementation & Data Migration Coordinator CUSHMAN & WAKEFEILD - New York, NY August 2016 to November 2018 Remote, with travel)  • Using Excel tables created weekly license overview configurable with pivot tables and reporting on summaries of all Active and Inactive Users to all regional leads and communicated weekly status report to leadership.  • By extracting ServiceNow report on license request tickets, performed Conditional formatting to highlight portions of data that met given condition such risks and worked together with all project stakeholders to develop plans, unblock issues, solve problems and communicated status across the organization.  • Collected processes, procedures, and historical information on Salesforce CRM license and developed tailored management and control processes for the project implementation and program that was maintained in SharePoint as central repository for all project artifacts.  ? Example of SharePoint integration, created and configured new sites, added document libraries.  • Established and maintained effective working relationships with involved Users, Managers and Executives from business units across the firm.  • Anticipated issues and proactively addressed all identified risks and placed mitigation to ensure first-class service to project participants. Graduate Teaching Assistant (Remote) Harrisburg University - Harrisburg, PA January 2016 to January 2018 Through Virtual Graduate Programs assisted in two sessions of graduate Principles of Project Management course grading the forums/assignments in SharePoint.  • Using Excel tables wrapped text, formatted cell with border & fill, set cell type with numbers for grades, merged cell for certain communication, froze panes to scroll through the data on student grades, filtered/sorted to edit report and removed gridlines to submit summary report on result to the class Professor.  • Communicated to leadership issues for immediate attention. Network & Infrastructure Project Manager UNISYS CORP - Harrisburg, PA May 2015 to April 2016 Network & Infrastructure Coordinator: (Enterprise Services), Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, Service Transition and Data Center Relocation Migration Project.  • Managed Excel table data conversion and cutover activities such as mainframes implementation, decommissioning of equipment, migrating data off hardware and storage components.  • Coordinated a wide team of technical and functional experts to plan and execute production data conversion and cutover activities to implement enterprise application systems changes.  • Worked alongside with senior implementation project manager to identify stakeholder's requirements and conducts meetings with key stakeholders.  • Executed work according to the project plan and followed the process such as administering meeting minutes with Action Items and distribution of relevant project materials to appropriate stakeholders for accountability of the expected next steps.  • Monitored data and cutover progress to ensure execution of tasks are completed within the downtime window.  • Created Change Request in ServiceNow platform for all the implementation work that were modified.  • Communicated cutover status and issues to leadership; and confirmed work is done to requirements.  • Cooperated with Client Executive and System Support Analyst teams to perform UAT testing activities in ServiceNow when needed. Sr. Deployment Coordinator Salesforce.com CUSHMAN & WAKEFEILD - New York, NY January 2014 to May 2015 Salesforce Implementation Project: (Global Corporate Initiative rollout). Coordinated activities associated with the maintenance and governance of the global accounts, tracking milestone deliverables and making certain that everything is running smoothly.  • Acted as a liaison between End Users both locally and worldwide including Staff and Administrative Personnel, Department Managers, and various IT professionals.  • Coordinated, aggregated and assessed project feasibility within the given constraints creating standards for project management execution.  • Maintained SharePoint centralized document for the team, by managing, delegating tasks to other SharePoint team, organizing and sharing documents.  • Had a good understanding of data concepts and technical designs, with ability to lead different teams and business toward a common design and solutions.  ? Example on a weekly basis provided Weekly User Deployment Report & Weekly Account Creation Report in Excel format to Senior Implementation manager. The excel data report contained details on license available, reserved, deployed, downgraded/deactivated and Total license available for all global regions. These were accomplished by utilizing data tables, pivot tables, advanced charting and formulas.  • After determining the User detailed requirement, prepared in Excel tables about 50 to 85 users concurrently for data migration and delivered to technical team for conversion to the Global SFDC environment.  • Escalated issues to applicable Personnel; employed SharePoint, Salesforce.com and ServiceNow platforms by updating statuses, queries and generated specified reports.  ? Example of the reports were Excel exports from Salesforce, SharePoint and ServiceNow on balances of licenses available, downgrade/deactivated licenses, number of weekly ticket requests which was presented in Excel tables that contained advanced formulas, pivot tables conditional formatting and advanced charting.  • Through follow-up process daily communicated both proactively and reactively with the End User in Executive Management and their respective Administrative Staff.  • Provided mentorship, and coaching new team members. Also delegated new tasks weekly as needed.  • Cooperated with Business Analysts as needed in Salesforce UAT - Release preliminary planning/testing sessions and reported finding in UAT chatter group.  • Utilized the ServiceNow Automation Platform by help desk interaction offering ticket management and configurable Excel export reports that meet specific user requirements.  • Collaborated with Data Analysts as needed in data cleansing  ? Example employed excel table format from data provided, QA (applied advanced formulas, conditional formatting, tables & formatting), and mapped to Excel table for stage migration into Salesforce.com.  • Solicited feedback from the End Users about the project ensuring they were fully deployed Associate Project Manager AMERICAN EXPRESS INC - New York, NY September 2013 to December 2013 Salesforce.com Migration Project due to high turnover of account managers: (Managed group of client managers to ensure successful migration of documents for their accounts to Salesforce.com).  • Acted as a liaison between client managers and Salesforce.com UAT (User Acceptance Testing) Analysts.  • Scheduled, tracked project progress and followed-up on outstanding items until compete.  • As part of PMO team, Supporting 5000 AMEX global client managers, moved all the client contract data (client information and legal documents pertaining to AMEX global clients) from the Image View Utility (IVU) database to Sales Force, where queries could be used to retrieve and create a variety of legal documents, including standard and customized Client Account Contracts (CAA), Addendum (ADD), Amendments (AMEND), etc. documents for review.  • Supported account managers in uploading documents to Salesforce.com platform.  • Supported account managers in logging into and identifying documents in other (non-Salesforce) repositories.  • Participated in coordination of UAT (User Acceptance Testing) scripts.  • At the end of each project gathered final lessons learned from stakeholders (example with the lawyers and other line and project managers) and updated knowledge base. Project Management Colorado Technical University, Colorado Spring, CO May 2012 to November 2013 MSM-PM  CTU Online Alumni. Successful completion of this degree program prepared me to;  • Demonstrate an understanding of effective leadership strategies, communicate information effectively, conduct professional applied research and demonstrate competence in the chosen field. IT Project Coordinator ENTERPRISE VISION TECHNOLOGIES - New York, NY August 2013 to August 2013 Client CBS Corporation  Short-term software migrations; assisted in preparing sports presentation for Digital Asset Department using MS Power Point and managed meeting agendas/minutes. Confirm work is done to requirements.  • Tracked project for CBS Corporation in the Digital Asset Department which entailed upgrading from iMotion3 HD to iMotion4 HD motion graphic apps.  • Supported Technical Operations Department order standard level of RAID (redundant array of independent disks) for motion graphics use in the digital asset department. While tracking open items and outstanding issues such as orders, notifications, invoice, follow up and delivery utilizing MS Outlook, MS Project and MS Excel. IT Security Project Coordinator COALFIRE SYSTEM INC - New York, NY October 2011 to March 2012 Supported and demonstrated basic understanding concept of project management methodologies.  • Acted as central Point of Contact (POC) for clients during the project lifecycle, leading daily scrum by communicating project deliverables with project team.  • Structured internal customer kickoff calls.  • Provided system administration in office level such as resource planning, time tracking and employee web timesheet using Dovico software.  • Utilized MS SharePoint regularly to share weekly status reports and minutes with all stakeholders.  • Executing Systems Development Life Cycle (SDLC) using Dovico Software, maintained project portfolio wide initiative such as scheduling resources, assignments creating task and tracking features of the projects.  • Using MS Project and Dovico Software, implemented procedure to track projects throughout lifecycle.  • Through quality assurance process measured the quality of project reporting and deliverables, communicating and escalating outstanding issues & deliverables.  • Assisted with problem resolution or risk mitigation as needed.  • Completed business management methods to ensure accuracy in final financial reporting, tracking and monitoring of actual to budget.  • Followed-up with client to ensure satisfaction. 401K Benefits Specialist ACS Inc. A Xerox Company - Little Falls, NJ August 2009 to February 2011 Responsible for answering and responding to all incoming calls from participants of ACS's clients regarding Defined Benefit and Defined Contribution benefits, providing accurate, clear, and concise information to participants, resolving any issues related to human resources and/or 401K benefits.  • Gathered information, researched/resolved inquiries using Intranet and logged participant's calls.  • Provided functional guidance, assistance, training and troubleshooting support to lower level staff using Intranet and MS Outlook product.  • Operated MS Outlook email program to integrate function like calendar sharing.  • Successfully worked with virtual teams managing logistics with people located in other parts of the world. Project Administrator THE SALVATION ARMY - Union, NJ April 2006 to June 2008 Responsible for administration of consulting activities, planning and coordinating projects in the Youth department. Maintained minutes pending for review by the Divisional Youth & Candidates Secretary. Prescreened prospect camp staff, maintained camp staff and camper personal records on database, provided reports through queries and updating camper's database. Coded all bills for department and secured proper authorization.  • Coordinated the logistical needs and handled conference meetings.  • Scheduled meetings and workshops utilizing IBM Notes (formerly Lotus Notes) with other Salvation Army Units.  • Arranged department social functions and updated the project plan after the request had been approved.  • Transcribed and followed through on correspondence, mailing and read files for members of the Youth Department as assigned by the Supervisor. Receptionist UNILEVER INC - Englewood Cliffs, NJ June 2004 to March 2006 Responsible for answering, screening and directing all telephone calls to appropriate person (s) accomplishing administration duties as directed by department managers; duties included but not limited to screening incoming files, assembling confidential documents, retrieving pertinent data from database, filing and data entry using Excel. Office Assistant Hudson Community County College - Jersey City, NJ September 2003 to June 2004 Performed data entry, student work-study related duties such as creating letters and labels, organized mails, and answered phones. Assisted executives in executing and supervising day to day activities for students. Education Project Management Colorado Technical University November 2013 B.A. in Computer Science Rutgers University - Newark, NJ May 2009 A.S. in Science and Mathematics Hudson County Community College - Jersey City, NJ May 2006