Baknking Compliance, Business Analyst, IT Security and Compliance Consultant Baknking Compliance, Business <span class="hl">Analyst</span>, <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> and Compliance Consultant Baknking Compliance, Business Analyst, IT Security and Compliance Consultant - Palindrome Consulting Miami, FL Work Experience Baknking Compliance, Business Analyst, IT Security and Compliance Consultant Palindrome Consulting 2016 to Present Selling and marketing all types  and brands of technology, managed services, IT  security and compliances services, vulnerability  assessments, cloud services, virtualization, etc.    All Covered, IT Services from Konica Business Development Manager Minolta - Miami, FL January 2015 to March 2016 Selling and marketing all types and brands of technology, managed services, IT  security and compliances services, vulnerability  assessments, penetration testing, cloud  services, virtualization, etc. VP-Sales-and Marketing EvolvTec formerly BLM Technologies of Florida 2011 to 2015 Selling and marketing all types and brands of technology related hardware and software. Including computers,  printers, copiers, check scanners, scanner software, virtualization, document imaging, print management, and managed services. Southeast Regional Sales Director KDA Holdings, Inc 2008 to 2011 Selling consulting and design/build services to financial institutions in the Southeast U.S. Sold over $8  million in Design/Build services and Strategic Planning services. SVP/Sales & Marketing Diebold - ERAS 2003 to 2008 Selling item processing services and compliance software to banks and Credit Unions in Florida. Developed  advertising and marketing programs, sold over $3 million in software and processing services, which included  Item and Payment processing software and services, and BSA software.    Regional Account Executive Senior Account Executive Bankers Systems Inc 1988 to 2003 Sold compliance-related products and services, including software, training, electronic forms, web documents, and preprinted documents, to financial institutions (banks and credit unions) in the Southeastern US.  Established and maintained customer relationships, negotiated and closed contracts. I was recognized with  awards for exceptional sales achievements and exceeded sales goals for 10 of 14 years in several territories  Liabilities Products Manager  Regional Manager Branch Manager Citicorp Savings of Florida 1978 to 1988 Managed a $3B deposit portfolio, including pricing, planning, fore-casting, design, and marketing. I managed  the operations of 20 retail branches, supervised 150 personnel and controlled a $2M budget. In the course of my tenure at Citicorp, I improved the sales, productivity, and compliance at each of three bank branches and  managed a region that won a national contest for increasing sales. Education MBA in Business Adminstration Nova Southeastern University - Fort Lauderdale, FL 1988 CISA Nova Southeastern University A.S. in Architectural Engineering in Business Microcomputers Wentworth Institute of Technology Certificate in Commercial Bank and Savings and Loan Management University of Miami Certificate Miami Dade College Skills BSA (5 years), BUSINESS SYSTEMS ANALYSIS (5 years), marketing (10+ years), sales goals (10+ years), Security (2 years) Certifications/Licenses CISA January 2015 to January 2018 Groups ISACA Additional Information Areas of expertise  IT Security and Compliance, Information Security Contract  Negotiations, Regulatory Compliance, BSA, AML, Client Relations  Financial Consulting    Corporate Contributions    ? Worked with "C" level executives in financial institutions to above $10B in assets.  ? Established a new banking office that grew to $35M+ in nine months.  ? Managed 90 accounts in seven states to meet annual sales goals of $3M+.  ? Transformed a large office that had failed two internal audits by reorganizing and retraining staff to pass  an audit within six months.  ? Developed a marketing program that increased checking and money market accounts by 10%.  ? Achieved a 7% growth in deposits by reorganizing a liability portfolio, eliminating unused accounts, and  developing new accounts.