VMware Systems Engineer VMware Systems Engineer VMware Systems Engineer - Knowledge Management Inc Springfield, VA • Worked on VMware virtualization project to upgrade vSphere 5.5 to vSphere 6.7 and physically decommission the hosts.  • Highly-skilled VMware Virtualization with over 5 years of total experience in Installed, Configured VMware ESX/ESXi 6.7 servers and maintained/monitored guest servers using VMware tools.  • Developed virtual machines, Datacenter running ESX/ESXi using vSphere Client, HTML Web  • Performed vMotion, svMotion across hosts with DRS and HA.  • Delivered vSwitch and Distributed  • Over 10 years of experience as a IT Professional in design and deployment of System with DOD security requirements.  • Recognized for leading technical teams with exceptional communications and teamwork skills.  • Hold an active Secret security clearance. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience VMware Systems Engineer Knowledge Management Inc May 2019 to Present • Competed project on VMware virtualization to upgrade vSphere 5 to 6.7 and ESXi 6.7 Hosts.  • Configured VMware ESX/ESXi servers and maintained/monitored guest servers using VMware tools.  • Developed virtual machines, Datacenter running ESX/ESXi using vSphere Client.  • Performed vMotion, svMotion across hosts with DRS and HA.  • Delivered vSwitch and Distributed  • Performed Server administrators of vSphere environment from a day to day standpoint troubleshooting, configurations, etc.  • Experience with VMware Horizon 7.4 Creating Master Image for Windows 10 for VDI  • Prepared Windows 10 Master Image and Deployment to Test and Production Pool  • Experience with VDI Monitoring and User Endpoint Management  • Drive IT systems to be compliant with Federal and industry certification and security requirements.  • Advise senior management at Dept. of State on technical and/or process aspects to lead teams in planning, evaluating, and recommending solutions for enterprise level issues. Windows\VMware System Engineer Knowledge Management Inc May 2018 to May 2019 • Completed Project to upgrade the design, installation, and configuration of the VMware vSphere\ESXi 5.5 suite in the Standard Environment to ESXi 6.7 for ISN/EX/TD  • Experience with VMware and Hyper-V Tool and VMware Update Manager  • Experience with install, configure, maintains VMware vSphere 5,5 and 6.5  • Installed, Configured EXSi 6.5 Hosts in VMware Standard Environment  • Maintain, upgrade firmware, and troubleshoot issues with HP Physical Servers  • Experience with migrate Virtual Machines from Old ESXi Host 5.5 to 6.5 Hosts.  • Administration experience with Virtual HP and Dell Blade Server  • Monitor all Windows and vSphere 6.5 Servers for Performance issues and stability concerns  • Experience with Deploy/Patching on ESXi 6.5 Host via VMware Update Manager  • Install, Configured and deploy and maintain virtual machines in VCenter 6.5 Server  • Perform tasks of virtualization Administrator, managing user and group permissions  • Experience with Decommission MS Window Server 2008 R2  • Build New MS Windows Server 2016, 2012 R2 from ISO image with IRM baseline policies  • Manage, maintain and monitor backups with Acronis Backup  • Provisioned and maintained EMC, HP and NetApp storage arrays; configured storage on Sun Solaris, Windows operating systems.  • Experience with Netapp Snapshots for Vmware datastores.  • Provided application support for storage testing and implementation.  • Achieved commitments in a production environment as required by SLA's.  • Diagnosed server failures to determine the most efficient path to restore service for the customer.  • Provided feedback to the engineering team on failures, serviceability of servers, and integration.  • Applied firmware and BIOS updates as needed using engineering-approved tools.  • Managed space allocation of production servers after careful analysis.  • Coordinated and executed preventive maintenance to the infrastructure.  • Configured ILO, and tested for Windows Servers  • Monitored and corrected issues related to system capacity (CPU, memory, ports, disk space, etc.). System Engineer NetImpact Strategies Inc January 2018 to April 2018 • Provide Systems Engineer function to support JSP DMZ team at Pentagon by Provision, Deploy MS Windows Server 2012 R2 virtual machines using DOD image in vCenter 6.0  • Monitor vSphere 6 server for alerts and performance issues  • Configured, Maintained and Optimized Servers by increasing resource such as Virtual Memory and CPU's and Hard Drive issues  • Responsible of taking snapshot of Virtual Machines and Restore from snapshot  • Created network Share and ensure service account has full control/read-write  • Provide tenant help with Firewall Rule and submit-track request with firewall team  • Perform Test-Netconnection cmdlet using Power shell Script to ensure Ports are active  • Provide scans and STIGS checklists to JP2 for A&A accreditation  • Worked with F5 Team to request VIP provision request for public facing websites  • Made recommendation for client to move into Gov-Cloud, Amazon AWS, Microsoft Azure depending  on user requirement PaaS or SaaS for Tenant and Cost Estimate Analysis Cyber Security Analyst NetImpact Strategies Inc April 2017 to December 2017 • Performed ACAS Scan, SCAP Tool and STIG viewers for compliance status in effort to get System ATO  • Provide customer and Information Owners assistance regarding RMF (A&A)  • Perform complete review of ARI Tool- MCCAST Packages to ensure accuracy  • Strategize to correct and mitigate security risks and weaknesses for all Systems  • Assist in preparing for upcoming CCRI with DISA STIGS and SRTM for systems VMware Engineer Buchanan& Edwards Inc June 2016 to April 2017 • Worked on VMware virtualization project to physically decommission the hosts.  • Created P2V, P2I, V2V and V2I migrations for windows hosts using VMware vCenter Converter.  • Configured VMware ESX/ESXi servers and maintained/monitored guest servers using VMware tools.  • Developed virtual machines, Datacenter running ESX/ESXi using vSphere Client.  • Performed vMotion, svMotion across hosts with DRS and HA.  • Provide Systems Engineer support for all the systems  • Experience In-placed upgrade of VMware vSphere 5.5 to 6.0 vCenter Server  • Installed and configured EXSi 6.0 Host on Dell PowerEdge M630, M620  • Firmware Update on Dell Chassis PowerEdge M630, M620 using iDRAC remote Tool  • Experience with Virtual Blade Server and Administration  • Experienced with Deploy/Patching on ESXi 6.0 Host via VMware Update Manager  • Responsible and maintenance Health of vCenter Server, ESXi servers, VSphere client  • Deploy Windows Sever 2008R2/ 2012R2 from Templates in vCenter 6.0  • Provide Administrator support to include troubleshooting issues with Microsoft Windows Server 2012 R2/2008 R2  • Manages and maintains Active Directory Domain Services, DNS  • Ensured that virtual infrastructure is up and running all time. Report any Outage  • Tests and evaluates systems to eliminate problems and make improvements. Sr.System Engineer ISHPI Information Technologies Inc August 2015 to June 2016 • Provide Engineering to USCG TISCOM Cyber Crisis Action Team to deploy systems "assess, fix and re-assess" methodology to address the protection of all USCG systems  • Responsible for deployment of Microsoft Windows 7 imaging including its core components and common applications used by USCG Information Assurance (IA) policy and guidance  • Support Coast Guard Configuration management with SCCM in the following areas Asset Identification, Software Distribution, Patching, and Compliance Tracking.  • Review client health status for each district migrated to SCCM 2012R2 and work with the district to accomplish a health rating target of 99%.  • Patched Microsoft client and MS servers using Microsoft WSUS and SCCM 2012 R2 System Administrator ISHPI Information Technologies Inc December 2013 to July 2015 • Supported daily CIAV activities, Coalition Interoperability Assurance & Validation ( CIAV) Laboratory Systems and support Ensuring the laboratory T&E capabilities are available to the DoD Coalition partners and customers  • Assisted in upgrade of vSphere 5 to 5.5v, Update ESXi Host  • Created Virtual VMware from Templates with customer specific requirement Add More resources such as CPU and expand hard drive.  • Installed, Configured, managed Microsoft Windows Server 2012 R2 and Windows 7 Clients  • Manages deployment of all patches, critical updates and service packs on a timely basis via Microsoft WSUS 2012 R2 and SCCM 2012 R2  • Monitored and resolved Organization's SCOM alerts for Critical Systems  • Locked down DoD Systems by using Security Technical Implementation Guides (STIGs)  • System Administration duties include creating/deleting domain accounts  • Performing administrative task within Windows Server 2012 R2 and 2008 R2 Server  • Managed MS Windows Servers by installed, configured TCP/IP (DNS, WINS, DHCP)  • Managed day-to-day operation of the MS servers by monitoring system performance, configuration, maintenance and repair maintain applications, perform updates  • Experience in printer configuration, creating print queues, update print drivers  • Maintain master server lists, with their function, IP and MAC Addresses and location Sr. Service Desk Tech QBE Engineer Inc June 2013 to December 2013 • Service Desk tech that provides services to WHS/PFPA and OSD  • Performed first call resolution on the Tier 1 & 2 helpdesk call center  • Issues relate to MS Windows 7 and Microsoft Office suite 2010 via the telephone or Remote Desktop tool such as DameWare or Remote Desktop  • Install Printer drivers and map user printer  • Reset user password in the Active Directory IT Specialist INNOLOG Inc November 2010 to November 2012 • Served as IT Specialist contractor to HQDA Army G-4 users at the Pentagon.  • Define IT and network infrastructure for entire Army G-4 approximately 400 user's and the Systems requirements of Desktops, Laptops, Servers and Printers  • Systems Engineer for HQDA Army G-4 responsibilities to manage client's Systems  • Image and deploy unclassified (NIPR) & classified (SIPR) workstations using Norton Ghost.  • Support migration activities for G-4 move to the NIPR DISA Enterprise Email  • As the IMO ODCS, Army G4 provide Policies and Procedures for technical support agencies HQDA IMCEN and ITA to ensure agency computing operations up and running  • Approved Account Validation requests for new Army G4 users to access the network  • System Administration for all the Windows Servers 2008 R2/2003, Duties include granting permission to Network share drives and Folders  • Appointed SIPR Trusted Agent to the HQDA Army G-4 for the implementation of classified Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) tokens in support of migration to classified Enterprise Email  • Trusted Agent responsible for Processing Alternative Token Requests, Forward the alternative token subscriber registration information to the DISA Registration Authority.  • Experienced with troubleshooting TCP/IP and networking issues and Configuration of desktops, laptops by using various DNS, WINS and IP Address values Desktop Engineer INNOLOG Inc November 2008 to November 2010 • Provided support to approximately 13,000 Air Force 844th CS Communications Squadron users at Pentagon, by Performing installation and deployment of Windows Vista and Windows XP on Desktop/Laptop  • Performed Imaging by using Norton Ghost on (NIPR&SIPR) machines and install patches  • Provided hardware upgrades replacements, data recovery, and application support.  • Administered domain user accounts in an organizational unit (OU) of the Active Directory by resetting password.  • Work with Spillages, Quarantines PC and SAV Def Update on Workstations  • Configured IP address on print device, and then created print queue on dedicated server System Analyst INNOLOG Inc April 2007 to September 2008 • Provided Desktop support to approximately 10,000 AFPCA Air Force user's at the Pentagon.  • Remotely supported users troubleshooting issues with VPN, Citrix, Juniper  • Also supported laptop, desktop, printer, hardware upgrades/replacements, data recovery  • Worked with Active Directory to reset users network accounts  • Use Remedy ticketing system to resolve trouble Ticket issues  • Installed Windows XP, maintained hardware and software for optimum operation.  • Install and troubleshoot local and/or network server print queues  • Insured that the network infrastructure is up and running. Education B.S. in Information Technology in Information Technology STRAYER University - Woodbridge, VA Skills Vmware, Virtualization, Visio, Hyper-v, Netapp, Microsoft windows, Windows 7, Microsoft windows 7, Windows server 2003, Office 2003, Fas, Vsphere, VDI, Esxi, KVM