Information Security Analyst/ Risk Analyst Information <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span>/ Risk <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Information Security Analyst/ Risk Analyst - Robert Half Technology, TX Dallas, TX An experienced and self-motivated IT security professional with an integral knowledge of diversified systems. Proven skills in collaborating with diverse IT professionals to achieve the security goals for information systems in enterprise environments. Experienced in IT Audit and risk evaluation and governance. Possesses four (4) years of IT experience in Vulnerability scanning, Penetration testing using tools like Nessus and Nmap. Work Experience Information Security Analyst/ Risk Analyst Robert Half Technology, TX January 2018 to Present Duties Include:  • Experience with FAIR methodology of quantifiable risk assessments  • Knowledge with GRC tools to such as Matric Stream  • Conduct internal Risk Assessments by analyzing Threats Event Frequency, Vulnerability, and Loss Magnitude in determining risk.  • Create and update risk register to track and respond to risk events.  • Conducting Third party risk assessments in deriving Residual risk.  • Creates DPIA, and Third Part Vendor questionnaires to derive inherent and residual Risk respectively.  • Lead the risk analysis and mitigation of risk identified.  • Coordinate with risk owners to drive and prioritize risk mitigation and reporting.  • Lead technology risk assessment process with business units to facilitate business objectives.  • Lead risk management awareness and training environment that aligns with the risk culture of the business.  • Developed Risk management policies and procedures that aligns with international standards such as NIST, ISO 27005, NYDFS, and HIPAA.  • Developed Risk acceptance, KPIs, KRI, risk Exception process that aligns with the business objectives.  • Review MSA and SLA for contract approval. IT Security Specialist II Irotech Consulting - Houston, TX July 2015 to January 2018 Duties Include:  • Conduct vulnerability Assessment and Remediation.  • Experience in various security management tools (Vulnerability management, Nessus, Wireshark and Splunk).  • Experience with network vulnerability assessments and penetration testing methods.  • Identify security flaws in computing platforms and applications, develop strategies and techniques to mitigate identified cybersecurity risks.  • Analyze and prepare reports on various vulnerabilities identified and to be remediated according to their risk level or criticality.  • Performed TPV risk assessments by developing DPIA, TPV questions, identifying inherent and residual risk.  • Developed tracking log for tracking third party vendors.  • Analyze and developed SLA in accordance to the business objectives.  • Performed quantitative and qualitative risk assessments to identify, respond, control, and report and risk event in a risk register. Education Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science in CompTIA Security + TECHNCIAL SKILLS University of Buea 2008 to 2012 Skills security, access, testing, Microsoft Office, training