Systems Engineer Systems Engineer Experienced Systems Engineer / Administrator West Fargo, ND Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Engineer Corporate Technologies - Fargo, ND July 2018 to Present * Deliver top-notch onsite support & administration as well as maintaining overall health and stability of technology for a wide variety of customers  * Coordinated migrations of multiple types of email platforms onto Office 365 Exchange Premier Field Engineer (PFE) - Contract (Microsoft) S-Com - Fargo, ND August 2017 to July 2018 * Leverage strong technical and analytical skills facilitating proactive guidance for Microsoft Premier customer deployments involving Office 365, Exchange 2010/2013 /2016/Exchange Online.   * Serve as a vital customer-facing technical resource, providing a mixture of tailored proactive services and reactive assistance including the planning, migration, and operations of Office 365; driving successful customer adoption and satisfaction.  * Deliver specialized skills in Office 365 (Exchange) while partnering with customer business decision makers and IT teams to understand their business requirements and address these using Microsoft technologies. Field Service Engineer - Contract Decision One - Sioux Falls, SD May 2017 to August 2017 * Effectively functioned at a short-term contracting position with D1 field engineering.  * Managed all on-site technical services for a wide range of customers, which included break/fix on desktops and servers, field replacement/service of printers, scanners, copiers, and faxes. Network Engineer Connecting Point & DataSync - Sioux Falls, SD January 2017 to April 2017 Apr 2016 - Sep 2016  * Rendered expert advice to clients on technology purchases, installation, and management of IT infrastructure as well as designing/improving network solutions, creating new Office 365 tenants and performing migrations of Exchange servers.  * Managed all IT infrastructure and support of systems, network, and users.  * Installed and maintained Office 365 and migrating Exchange environments, implemented Dynamics CRM, and provided support for these solutions to company customers. Technical Support Administrator First Premier Bank Card - Sioux Falls, SD August 2014 to April 2016 * Expertly administered multiple systems including McAfee EPO, Symantec ITMS, and multiple Windows Servers while providing 3rd tier support to bankcard employees.  * Delivered PCI-DSS compliance information to upper management and served as a leader to the rest of the support team facilitating input on staffing decisions. Systems Administrator IV - Contract Bureau of Indian Affairs, USGS/EROS - Sioux Falls, SD July 2012 to August 2014 * Coordinated the day-to-day maintenance of the data center including troubleshooting of Windows related services, physical maintenance of IBM servers and BladeCenter, VMware vSphere, and NetApp SAN.  * Administered and supported several systems including McAfee Endpoint Encryption and Symantec Endpoint Protection. Information Security Analyst - Contract Citibank - Sioux Falls, SD January 2012 to July 2012 * Interacted with business managers, end-users, and technical staff for provisioning of system access.  * Utilized independent judgment in analyzing, configuring, and completing required security solutions including permissions and entitlements and to initiate and manage the assessment, knowledge transfer, and transition of new security systems and to develop procedures and process control manuals. Software Services Representative Fiserv - Sioux Falls, SD June 2011 to January 2012 * Delivered well-rounded support for Fiserv document imaging and archival product, Director.  * Traveled to customer sites to perform installs and upgrades of software and servers, and performed onsite support for Windows and SQL servers after install. Technical Coordinator Madison Central School District - Madison, SD October 2009 to June 2011 * Coordinated the IT infrastructure and IT staff for the school districts, which included the maintenance on desktops, laptops, tablets, servers, and printers, as well as management of end-user accounts and supervision of other IT staff.  * Provided IT training to staff and teachers and assisted with technological integration in classrooms. Field Service Representative II CompuCom - Fargo, ND June 2008 to October 2009 * Conducted on-site technical support including maintenance of Servers, PC's, and peripherals.  * Identified potential problems prior to service call being requested; provided repairing, servicing, and replacement of parts and equipment for Dell and HP servers and workstations. IT Technician Dakota Magic Casino & Hotel - Hankinson, ND September 2005 to June 2008 * Directed a team of help desk technicians to provide all technical support for employees including repairing and installation of all hardware and software, IT training for end-users, management of the network, and group policy. Education Bachelor's in Computer & Network Security Bellevue University - Bellevue, NE 2015 Computer Programming Certificate Brown College Skills Active directory, Firewalls, Networking, Altiris, Symantec, Vmware, Microsoft sql server, Sql, Microsoft office, Microsoft windows, System Administrator Links http://linkedin.com/in/barry-cordie-06101a46 Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Systems Administrator (MCSA) - Office 365 June 2016 to Present CompTIA A+ Present CompTIA Security+ April 2015 to May 2018 Additional Information Technical Skills  Hardware: All PC hardware: Desktops, Laptops, Tablets, Servers  Networking: SAN Routers Core & Workgroup Switches Firewalls  Operating Systems: Microsoft Windows, Windows Server  Software & Databases:  Microsoft Office/Office 365 Active Directory Group Policy Microsoft SQL Server VMware McAfee EPO Symantec ITMS (Altiris)