Senior Storage Engineer Senior Storage Engineer Senior Storage Engineer - Velocity Technology Solutions Ashburn, VA I am seeking a challenging position in an organization that will benefit from my initiative, capabilities and contribution. I am interested in a position that utilizes my background, skills and training while allowing for advancement within the company as well as all-around personal improvement. Work Experience Senior Storage Engineer Velocity Technology Solutions January 2015 to Present Assigned to a senior Storage role in an Oracle private cloud hosting environment that supports ~1000 virtual servers running ~3000 virtual machines. Responsible for procurement, installation, configuration, management, troubleshooting and capacity management of 35 Dell Compellents and 30 Dell MD3600 SANs with over 2PB of storage in four different DC locations. Responsible for procurement, installation, configuration, management, troubleshooting and capacity management of 12 Dell FS8600 NAS systems for NFS file administration from the Linux servers. Responsible for volume creation, expansion and deletion for use with Oracle Enterprise Linux running on OVS (Oracle Virtual Server). Also responsible for volume creation, expansion and deletion for an NFS based backup system running on the Dell MD SAN platform. Familiar with setup and configuration of Brocade Fiber Channel switches, both rack and chassis based, along with alias, zoning and trunking configurations. Also assisted in providing storage reports for capacity planning. IT Analyst Velocity Technology Solutions June 2011 to January 2015 Assigned to the data center role in an Oracle hosting company. Performed installation, configuration and troubleshooting of rack servers, blade servers, chassis, SAN's, and network gear. Played a major role in the relocation of all equipment from one data center to another including but not limited to physical relocation of the equipment, pre and post documentation, logistical arrangements and project management.    Responsible for daily monitoring of customer data backups using Symantec Netbackup. Pulled tapes from data center each week and submitted to Iron Mountain. Assigned and worked an email based service desk that included working tickets on all aspects of hosting Oracle from Linux and Windows administration to modifying access lists on Cisco switches and firewalls. Network Operations Supervisor Swisscom Hospitality Services April 2007 to June 2011 Supervisor of a Network Operations Center which monitors and supports networks for hotels and convention centers. Responsibilities include overseeing all aspects of daily operations, employee scheduling and management, resolving escalated issues and working on special projects for upper management. Implemented and ran weekly and monthly reports for IMACD (install, move, add, change, delete) and MTTR (mean time to repair) for upper management. Created procedures for all aspects of daily NOC operation as well as training network technicians on created procedures, configuration and troubleshooting of installed networks. Also assisted with onsite installations consisting of installation of network components, patching switches into network and all necessary documentation. Network Operations Technician Swisscom Hospitality Services November 2005 to April 2007 Worked in a Network Operations Center which monitors and supports network for hotels and convention centers. Responsibilities included monitoring a SNMP based software for outages and working to restore down devices, taking calls/supporting end users and account managers, performing event based network augmentations (VLANs, DHCP pool modifications, creation of router subinterfaces), augmentations of current networks and installation of networks. Account Manager Swisscom Hospitality Services December 2003 to August 2005 Responsible for all aspects of providing network services in a hospitality environment. Duties range from maintaining a working relationship with each of my 16 assigned hotels, client relations, sales, event support, network maintenance, inventory control and end-of-month accountings.  Primary duties include working with clients to determine network requirements for their event, negotiating price and formulating quotes on requested services. Once contracts were finalized I then managed and assisted in the implementation of requested services. This ranged from setting up temporary wired and wireless networks as well as augmenting the current network to work with the client's temporary network.  I also hired and managed an account technician to ensure that all shared clients are properly supported and all networks are properly maintained. This includes continued training for the technician and approval of all employee administrative paperwork. Transportation Security Screener Transportation Security Administration September 2002 to November 2003 Responsible for the screening of all persons and property intended to be carried into the sterile area or in the cabin of the aircraft by means of x-ray machines, metal detectors, and physical inspections at security checkpoints and gates to prevent hijacking or other criminal acts. Attended 40 hours classroom training and 60 hours OJT. Also have taken and passed the Image Mastery Test. Loop Activation Tech I Network Access Solutions - Herndon, VA June 2000 to November 2001 Responsible for the installation, configuration, and troubleshooting of SDSL, IDSL and T1 circuitry. Duties include answering phones for installations, opening, tracking and troubleshooting of trouble tickets.    Ran daily reports of rejected circuits and equipment trouble for management. Tech Support Technician Vidar Systems Corp - Herndon, VA August 1999 to May 2000 Worked in tech support environment supporting users worldwide who used Vidar's line of commercial scanners. Responsible for opening and tracking hardware and software trouble tickets.    Recorded and tracked all information from customers requesting return merchandise authorizations. Education Park View High School - McLean, VA 1998 Skills CISCO, DATA CENTER, DNS, FIBER CHANNEL, REMEDY, TCP/IP, TIVOLI, LINUX, DHCP, NETWORK PROTOCOLS, NETWORK TROUBLESHOOTING, SWITCHING, DS3, T1, TCP, WIRELESS LAN, COMPELLENT, DELL COMPELLENT, SMTP, WIRELESS, Brocade, SAN, Iscsi