IT Support Specialist <span class="hl">IT</span> Support Specialist IT Support Specialist - HERRERO BUILDERS INCORPORATED San Francisco, CA A highly motivated and client focused IT Support Specialist with substantial success in providing support to operations and projects in diverse industries. Experience includes enterprise-wide IT service management, the formulation of policies and procedures, and the implementation of large-scale projects. Applies an analytical approach to solving problems, maintains a keen eye for detail, and cultivates trusted working relationships with key stakeholders. Inspires technical teams to success and is committed to achieving results that enhance the user experience. Work Experience IT Support Specialist Build Group - San Francisco, CA January 2019 to Present IT Support Specialist HERRERO BUILDERS INCORPORATED - San Francisco, CA 2016 to December 2019 Serving as the central point of contact for IT service for the HerreroBOLDT Team and trade partners on the Sutter  Health CPMC Mission Bernal Campus Rebuild project.  • Monitoring and resolving incidents with network, servers, PC operating systems, applications, and peripherals in accordance with IT Service Desk procedures. IT Support Technician JACOBS Engineering - San Francisco, CA 2013 to 2016 Provided IT support for employees and clients located in Jacobs offices and project sites around the San Francisco  Bay area and on boarded and trained employees.  • Deployed I.T. infrastructure at project sites, and managed Altiris and the ServiceNow ticketing systems.  • Procured Dell Premier, HP B2B, and Insight equipment and installed and managed network multi-functional printers.  • Set up and performed troubleshooting of mobile devices, administered Group Policy and managed vendor relationships. Desktop Support Technician ASSOCIATED THIRD PARTY ADMINISTRATORS - Alameda, CA 2010 to 2013 • Provided direct and remote IT support for employees and clients nationwide by phone, SCCM and Teamviewer.  • Set up new user accounts, performed group policy administration and presented IT training to clients and staff.  • Provided MFP support, configured software, hardware and networks, and performed troubleshooting of issues.  • Repaired refurbished, installed and upgraded PCs, and network printers and provided on-going support.  • Performed backups and imaging, and managed inventory, and updated antivirus software and critical software Security Analyst at GSOC DOLBY LABORATORIES - San Francisco, CA 2008 to 2010 • Provided global access and travel support for members of the Dolby team and served as the central point contact for the dissemination of information pertaining to security-related incidents.  • Monitored Enterprise Access Control and CCTV and provided a real-time intelligence analysis of the feeds in order to mitigate the risk of assets loss and personnel injury.  • Conducted security and threat assessment audits. Field Supervisor / Account Executive ARMADA PROTECTIVE SERVICES INC - San Francisco, CA 2005 to 2008 Education Bachelor's Degree in Accounting and Finance in Accounting and Finance MINSK INSTITUTE OF MANAGEMENT - Minsk, BY 2004 Skills Application Support (Less than 1 year), Customer service (Less than 1 year), Incident Management (Less than 1 year), inventory (3 years), training (3 years), MAC, Help Desk, Active Directory, Service Desk, Desktop Support Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/maxim-shokal-a28b72aa Assessments Technical Support Skills — Highly Proficient December 2018 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/tu8bgyh3ymik0ovd Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES    • IT Service Management • Infrastructure & Application Support • Project Management  • Incident Management • Asset & Inventory Management • Customer service  • Troubleshooting & Repairs • Network & System Administration • Training Delivery  • Stakeholder Management • Policy & Procedure Development • Procurement  • Installations & Configurations • Migrations & Upgrades • Multi Site Operations