Team Lead - Systems Administrator II Team Lead - Systems Administrator II Team Lead - Systems Administrator II - Agile Defense Work Experience Team Lead - Systems Administrator II Agile Defense April 2018 to Present • Duties consist of performing installation, configuration, and troubleshooting of Microsoft Windows Servers for current and future fielding. Administered services include:  ? Active Directory User and Computers including role-based administration  ? Active Directory Sites and Services  ? Agile/SCRUM Projects  ? Group Policy  ? Domain Name System (DNS)  ? Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP)  ? Microsoft Deployment Toolkit (MDT)  ? Windows Server Update Services (WSUS)  ? File permissions management  ? McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator Host-Based Security System (HBSS)  ? Microsoft SQL Database  ? VMware 5.5, 6.0, 6.5  ? CISCO UCS  ? Netapp CDOT SAN  ? Service Now Implementation  ? SCCM  • Work with cybersecurity personnel to assist with information assurance (IA) tasks to review / implement quarterly Security Technical Implementation Guides (STIG), Best Business Practices (BBP), and test / install appropriate Information Assurance Vulnerability Alerts / Bulletins.  • Interface with team members to identify, analyze and resolve complex issues across the enterprise.  • All other appropriate duties as and when required by management.  • Accomplisments:  ? Key Role in the Completion Data Center Migration Project  * VCenter, UCS, and Netapp Upgrades and Configuration  * Assist PAAS Cloud Foundry Team with SDC Maintenance and Configuration (NSX, VCenter, ESXi)  ? Key role in User Home Drive Cleanup and re-permission (Powershell)  ? Led Cyber Security effort to Mitigate Vulnerabilities and improve the overall CAOC IAVA Posture  ? Assisted with First ServiceNow Architecture in on Site. Configured and deployed MID servers.  ? Became AWS Solutions Architect Certified during time in Doha  * AWS DMS (Database Migration Service)  * Hands on Experience Migrating MySQL DB to Aurora  * Replication Instance creation, Target and Source Endpoint configuration, Creating and running Database Task Sr. Systems EUC Engineer-Remote ECCO Solutions (WWT) December 2017 to March 2018 • Architected Windows-based end-user solutions, including key success factors, project scope while driving a better understanding of the customer's environment and potential project risks.  • Designed and led product demos, Proof of Concepts and pilot engagements to help drive requirements, success factors and customer confidence in PS EUC's proprietary software solutions.  • Worked closely with the PS EUC software development team to communicate requirements and participate in functional design and prioritization of software enhancement/features backlog.  • Established and maintained effective working relationships with management team, WWT partners, coworkers and your customers.  Technology Area  • Microsoft Windows 7, 8/8.1 and Windows 10  • Desktop/Laptop hardware (primarily Dell/HP/Lenovo)  • Windows OS Deployment/WinPE  • Windows MDT Server Systems Engineer C4 Solutions - Miami, FL December 2016 to December 2017 Planned, coordinated, and managed engineering projects. Acted as lead in defining and executing systems engineering activities within a project. Provided comprehensive definition of all aspects of system development from analysis of mission needs to verification of system performance. Supported operations as needed. Ensured efficient delivery of contract capabilities using industry standards and repeatable processes. Mitigates risks, controls costs and schedule variance, and effectively manages large scale, integrated projects.    Skills: Splunk, VCenter 6.5, Windows Server 2012/2016, Quest Migration, SCOM, SCCM, Netapp, Dell EMC Windows System Administator II (Projects/Scrum Team)-Qatar Agile Defense October 2016 to December 2016 Ensured a secure operating environment by monitoring user access and adherence to established policies and procedures. Provide technical assistance of all assigned projects. Supported in providing desktop/server and software application integration supported. Supported in system configuration management. Supported in providing software and firmware maintenance. Supported in performing account management and work with the ISM. Supported in the detection of problems associated with hardware, operating system, and application software. Supported in analyzing and resolving problems associated with hardware, operating system, and application software. Supported monitoring and analysis tools. Supported in researching new technologies and software upgrades to workstations / servers for familiarity / keep up with current technological developments. Supported in recommendations for COTS/GOTS application upgrades and implementation of new applications. Supported in maintaining and semi-annually publishing a Comprehensive As-Built System Engineering Plan. Supported Script development and implementation.    Daily Tasks Include working with the following tools:  • Server 2012, SCCM, ACAS, DNS/DHCP, Netapp Sys Manager, ARS, Remedy, Exchange 2012, Powershell, SQL Server, VSphere, UCS Manager    Data Center Upgrade Project:  • Nexus 7K Upgrade  • Netapp Ontap 8.3.2 Upgrade  • Cisco UCS Upgrade  • VShpere 6 Upgrade    Vectrus Site Manager Camp Redleg April 2015 to September 2016 *First and only OMDAC SWACA Site in the UAE.    Provided country-wide oversight and oversees, operations and maintenance of Tier II strategic communications information technology equipment and services. Serves as Primary liaison between company and Government on UAE OMDAC SWACA contract, interfacing with Government contracting authorities, using agencies, technical representatives and managers. Our team Provided reliable, responsive and secure communications and information technology services to US Military Forces in UAE, and the CENTCOM AOR by providing connectivity to the DISA Network for all DoD units (fixed and tactical) to execute Operations in supported of Operations Enduring Freedom and Iraqi Freedom. Provided direction and leadership to section leads and maintains overall responsibility of personnel assigned to the site. Responsible for the administration, troubleshooting and maintenance of all equipment and the activities of all personnel assigned to the site. Establish work schedules, maintain good order and discipline and ensure all personnel are properly trained to perform assigned tasks. Responsible for safe operations at the site level and report to the respective area or country manager.    Site Accomplishments:  • Lead Role in getting Vectrus Approved/Registered by the United Arab Emirates Government Headquarters (GHQ).  ? Thus becoming the first American Company to "Permanently" work on Al Minhad AB while still living offsite.  ? GHQ approval also allows Vectrus to expand operations anywhere in the UAE.  • Led Team in the Design, Development, and Establishment of Camp Redleg's Site Level Strategic network from the ground up. 2016  ? Successfully converted Camp's Tactical Network Infrastructure to a Strategic Network. 2016 Site Manager - Camp Arifjan Kuwait South West Asia Headquarters October 2014 to April 2015 Managed 109 Employees: 1 Department Manager, 11 Supervisors, 98 Technicians.    Our team Provided reliable, responsive and secure communications and information technology services to US Military Forces in Kuwait, and the CENTCOM AOR by providing connectivity to the DISA Network for all DoD units (fixed and tactical) to execute Operations in supported of Operations Enduring Freedom and Iraqi Freedom. Provide Oversite of operations and maintenance of Tier II strategic communications information technology equipment and services. Serving as an integral project management team member responsible for migrating information technology equipment and services into a state of the art MCF (Main Control Facility). Provide direction and leadership to section leads and maintain overall responsibility of personnel assigned to the site. Responsible for the administration, troubleshooting and maintenance of all equipment and the activities of all personnel assigned to the site. Establish work schedules, maintain good order and discipline and ensure all personnel are properly trained to perform assigned tasks. Responsible for safe operations at the site level and report to the respective area or country manager.    Site Accomplishments:  • MCF Migration project: Identified critical services and equipment to be migrated to MCF.  • Passed the 2014 CCRI (Cyber Readiness) Inspection for the second year in a row.  • SWA Migration Project: Successfully Migrated all Kuwait Domain AD objects to the SWA Domain (Southwest Asia). 2014  • Wireless Project: Successfully Implemented an NSA Approved Wireless Solution. - 2015 Automations Manager/ Active Directory Systems Engineer (SWACC) Exelis (Vectrus) October 2013 to October 2014 Assumed Camp Arifjan Site Management role/ responsibilities when ever needed.  Responsibilities included taking an active role in the implementation of new policies and procedures in addition to team leadership development/ mentoring.  Supervisor/Technical role over 5 departments: Helpdesk, ADPE, Systems, Networks and Information Assurance.  Supervisory aspects included scheduling\training of personnel, ensuring personnel performance, policy enforcement, generating reports, outage reporting, planning projects\ deployments, attending meetings, approving timesheets, supervision of training records and vehicles, incident handling and employee evaluations.  Technical aspects included ensuring IA IAVA\Retina scans were completed and remediated.  Managed 2013 CCRI (Cyber Readiness) inspection; Passed Inspection.  Included coordinating base wide switch upgrades, remediation of CAT1 vulnerabilities on all Servers and moving devices in to the correct VLANs. Sr. System Administrator Lead Exelis (Vectrus) June 2012 to October 2013 Skills: DHCP, MS Exchange 2003/2007, SCCM, VERITAS, MS Server 2008 R2, VMWare, VMS    • Create/Manage Client Accounts, Groups, Distribution lists, and Mailboxes via Active Directory.  • Remote Supported with SCCM on NIPR, SIPR, Centrix  • Run Server Backups via Veritas, Maintain Server Updates  • Patch Servers and Workstations via Retina Network Security Scanner Reports  • Utilize Remedy/ITSM Software for Creating Trouble Tickets  • Lead position - Responsibilities include updating daily logs, following up on open tickets, Vacation Approvals, JCTL's, and Schedule Creation.  • Completed Leadership Training: Leadership 101, Leadership 102 IT Security Administrator BG Group December 2011 to June 2012 • Create/Manage Client Accounts, Groups, Distribution lists, and Mailboxes via Active Directory.  • Created/Configures DL's and Mailboxes with Exchange 2007/2003.  • Provided network access via Active Directory to files, folders, to users and pc's on a global scale. Verify/ Obtain manager approvals for client requests, as well as group owner approvals.  • Monitor Servers - Memory, Space, Connectivity via Solar Winds.  • Created/Closed 20 + Tickets per day using IBM Maximo Ticketing system.    Skills: Active Directory, Outlook Maximo, MS Exchange 2003/2007, SharePoint, SolarWinds, RDC IT Security Administrator Sysco November 2010 to December 2011 • Create/Manage Client Accounts, Groups, Distribution lists, and Mailboxes via Active Directory.  • Create/Manage Client Accounts in multiple Mainframes/Databases including AS400, Rumba, SWMS, HXA1/ TSO. Including adding menu screens and other user options  • EDW, Onelink Account Creation and Administration.    Skills: Active Directory, Outlook, Remedy 7, SharePoint, RDC LAN Administrator/ Engineer Desktop Supported Baker Hughes Inc July 2010 to September 2010 • Provide clients with access to requested resources (AutoCAD, Relex, DBworks, etc.) and applying correct permissions via Active Directory.  • Provided network access via Active Directory to files, folders, to users and pc's on a global scale. Verify/ Obtain manager approvals for client requests, as well as group owner approvals.  • Create groups via active directory.  • Provide remote and local pc supported to engineers and architects.    Skills: Ghost, Solv ticketing system, SMS Help Desk Analyst/ Network Administrator Invesco Inc February 2010 to July 2010 • Provide client supported through analysis and problem solving of a variety of computer and software technologies utilizing over the phone and remote communication technologies to service the end user.  • Provide Tier 2 service or phone supported to IT users for basic software and hardware of end-user computing and desktop-based LAN systems.  • Troubleshoot problems to resolution or escalate to Local desktop or Configuration level via Remedy ticketing software.  • Reset or configure network accounts access for multiple applications such as TA 2000, AWD, Active Directory, CRD, Portia 9, Citrix, SecurID, Oracle, Virtual Machines, etc.  • Document problems and resolutions within call tracking application and provide updates to the knowledge base where applicable.  • Configure and install software for end-users' desktops and laptops.  • Process hardware and software requests by coordinating user setup, upgrades, and installations.    Skills: Active Directory, Outlook, Remedy 7, Solar Winds Help Desk Analyst Natco Group Inc October 2009 to November 2009 1 Month Contract to help optimize Natco's entire pc environment due to Oracle installs. Responsibilities included Java 6 Update 13 installs and script corrections. Windows updates, temporary file removals, etc. Natco has a large mixed mode environment with over a thousand users and most installs were performed remotely using Windows Remote Connection. After all pc updates were complete, the second part of the contract included providing internal Desktop/ Helpdesk supported to local and remote users. Scope of supported included software/hardware installs, Drive mapping, Printer/Scanner troubleshooting: Completed 5-10 tickets per day. Desktop Technician/ Network / BES Administrator Cemex September 2007 to July 2009 • Provide internal Desktop/Network supported to local and remote users in a large mixed mode corporate environment. Scope of supported includes OS installs/upgrades, Lotus 6.5, software/hardware troubleshooting, Ghost Imaging, Blackberry/PDA (Wireless supported), Drive mapping, Permission settings, user account settings, Printer/Scanner troubleshooting, etc.  • Take approximately 20 calls a day and 20 tickets. Supported applications such as HPOpenview, Lotus, MS Office, VPN, Wi-Fi, Symantec, Active Directory.  • Other responsibilities include: Network infrastructure including desktop switches, cabling, wireless connectivity, assed management. SMS (pushing out network installs).  • Training new team members. BES admininistator, Efax administrator. Supervisor Wireless Data Tech Supported October 2005 to September 2007 • Provide 24 hour data supported to customers connecting to Verizon Wireless networks. Scope of supported includes troubleshooting devices such as PDA's, Blackberries, and PC air cards. Assist customers with setting up Blackberry web client accounts, and wireless sync accounts.  • Assisting customers with accessing personal/ work email from there device and configuring the device for email (pop3, outlook, Apple Mail/ Entourage and lotus).  • Supported device synchronization with pc's.  • Setting up pop and Verizon smtp servers on laptops and devices.  • Help with bluetooth, and wireless syncing devices.  • Take approximately 30+ calls per day, create 30+ tickets. Supporteding all Windows OS (including Vista) and MAC.  • Back-up Supervisor, for a team of 10 technicians. Responsibilities include training/coaching other team members, keeping up with teams Call Stats. Helpdesk Analyst/ Jr. Network Administrator MemberWorks Inc December 2000 to October 2005 • Provide network supported to systems administrator for large volume call centers by creating Help Desk tickets via company intranet, and utilizing Magic Help Desk software for minor and major network issues. -Take 30+ technical calls a day, and create 30+ tickets a day.  • Troubleshooting and analysis of computer terminals which utilize Siebel call center software and AS/400. -Resetting passwords for Siebel and AS/400 users including but not limited to supervisors and management staff.  • Troubleshooting and resolving software, hardware, and technical issues for clients in a mixed mode environment (windows 98 & 2000).  • Assist with Imaging and System upgrades  • Hardware/ Software installation and Maintenance Remote Access/ Lotus Notes Support JPMORGAN CHASE March 2005 to August 2005 • Provide Remote Access supported to clients connecting to Citrix Servers via Internet or VPN. Help Desk tickets via company intranet, and utilizing ESource software for issues unresolved.  • Supported over 50,000+ users worldwide.  • Take 50+ technical calls a day, and 50+ problem tickets a day.  • Troubleshooting and resolving Remote Access issues for clients using company laptops or personal pc's. -Administering Novell user accounts, SecurID tokens, Windows NT accounts.  • Troubleshoot Lotus Notes issue problems ranging from server access, to personal settings. Education Bachelors degree in Technical Management DeVry University - Houston, TX Present Associates Degree MTI College School of Business and Technology - Houston, TX Skills Project Management, Change Management, Agile, integration, Visio Additional Information AWS Solutions Architect, PMP, CISSP, MCSE 2016, CASP, Security +, ITILv3.0, CCNA, CCNA Security VCP6.5-DCV, CCENT, A+, N+, MCP, MCSE 2012, MSCA 2012, Linux Essentials, CIW Site Dev Assoc.