Security Analyst II - Mainframe <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> II - Mainframe Security Analyst II - Mainframe - Anthem Inc Dunwoody, GA Work Experience Security Analyst II - Mainframe Anthem Inc - Atlanta, GA January 2019 to Present Provide second level technical troubleshooting support. Manage access life-cycle with provisioning, de-provisioning, access revalidations utilizing RACF mainframe security system. Evaluate incident tickets and troubleshoot the issue and communicate the cause effectively. Follow documented procedures for access lifecycle management activities. While keeping support procedures documentation, updated for existing procedures and new work intake. Continuously maintain the quality standards of the work. Proactively identify audit and compliance access related issues to reduce the risk of security exposures on the support systems and applications, during work-in-take processes. Coordinate access management related audit and compliance tasks, such as user access reporting and other relevant research and investigation. Work with numerous internal technical teams to drive process efficiencies in the team. Perform User Access Revalidations on the various aspects of access to ensure orphaned access is timely removed. Respond to level 3 and 4 change and problem requests. Participate in level 1 and 2 incident recoveries with minimal supervision. Information Systems Analyst/IOC Mainframe PAS Synergis - Alpharetta, GA July 2015 to December 2018 Responsibilities include monitoring and managing of the system's telecommunications and data computing/voice infrastructure. While providing 24x7 frontline support; monitoring, diagnosing, resolving and communicating on mainframe production and application support issues. Monitoring and operating the OS/390 operating system utilizing TSO, JCL and JES3. Making necessary temporary JCL changes to correct jobs, on job ABEND related issues. Responding to daily requests using Remedy's ticket tracking software application. Managing the Infrastructure Event Management Tools; in addition, to using other support tools and resources available to the PAS Frontline Analysts. Managing and supporting the mainframe systems health, availability, and response time on batch output. Run the cash reports for verification and processing of payments received. Monitors and supports the CICS regions, IDMS regions and DB2 Subsystems on the mainframe processor. But not limited to the following tools: MVS Console, CSS, Netcool, Autosys, JTS and Stk Silo's. Windows/UNIX/Linux and SQL servers. Multi-tasking on various projects and assignments by prioritizing to meet scheduled deadlines. While always working to provide excellent customer service and communicate effectively with all of our vendors and end-users, in a professional manner both verbally and written. IT Service and Support Analyst II Interactive Communications, Inc - Atlanta, GA November 2013 to July 2015 Responsible for providing world-wide monitoring and level II support services in a NOC operations data center. Monitor and analyze logs and alerts utilizing various monitoring tools, such as; Splunk 5.3 and 6.1, Site Scope, OpsView, Orion (Solar Winds), while providing guidance and assistance to various team members as the point of escalation on complex technical issues. Also enter, track and help to resolve users' ticket requests using Service Now, ticket tracking application. Duties also include but not limited to pull XML spil logs, performing file transfer requests, resetting user's password ids and granting fire call access to various system devices using Active Directory. Responsibilities include ping various servers and/or trying to remote into them to check connectivity. Also taking servers in and out of load using the load balancers computer networking systems; ACE, CSM, Lil'D and F5. Also work with VMware and vSphere software application system to remote into virtual machines to reset those devices. Monitor system alerts on servers, routers/switches, VPN, storage, network devices, databases and system applications. Responsibilities also include setting up and providing support on deployments for changes, break fixes and system upgrades to the various support teams, in an effort to help maintain the overall successful operation of the company's infrastructure. AS/400 Systems Help Desk Operator 36th District Court - Detroit, MI July 2008 to August 2013 Monitored various interactive and batch jobs running on AS/400 I-Series operating system under JIS information system. Respond to various prompt commands and error messages on system console. Also provided help desk support to end users by managing the escalation of outstanding resolution tickets using Track- It ticket tracking software application. Reset user ids using Active Directory, also enabling/disabling password ids on the AS/400 operating system, when necessary. Maintained job and output queues for an even workflow of system usage for daily production and test jobs, brought up TCP/IP, varied on/off tape drives and printers, if necessary. Also ran daily, weekly and monthly jobs utilizing report generator to produce the various reports for inter-office distribution. Also performed the install of the PTF files new version releases onto the AS/400 I-series system. Performed full system saves on the production system box and IPL the system, when necessary. Maintained and updated the workflow schedule to help ensure a smooth and efficient working environment. Responsibilities also included running all production and development system backups. Cleaned tape drives and printers. Also was responsible for changing the stock and consumables on the printers. Placed service calls to IBM for more in-depth hardware and software issues. AS/400 Computer Operator/Help Desk Support Source One Healthcare Technologies - Mentor, OH December 2007 to March 2008 Monitored jobs running on the system, performed full system saves using Native job scheduler and BRMS. Monitored and analyze logs and alerts for proper operation of all equipment, control panels /alert lights on system devices. Monitored the system for error messages, verified all printouts for faulty output. Researched and corrected error messages by manipulating the system console after a job was interrupted. Processed invoices and resolved all billing matters related to the cell phone/pager accounts for the companies field engineers and staffing associates using Payforce and Excel spreadsheet software applications. Made various changes and corrections to payroll hours, when necessary before submitting the payroll information to ADP for processing. AS/400 Computer Operator/Help Desk Support Otterbase, Inc - Livonia, MI July 2007 to October 2007 Monitored AS/400 MQ-Series (emulator) systems for error messages on various jobs running and waiting in the job and print queues. Also monitored and controlled jobs running on MVS mainframe platform and UNIX based server systems. While utilizing monitoring tools such as; Big Brother and TSO. Mounted tape requests and cataloging inventory for all onsite and offsite tape media using TSM and BRMS. While providing second-level help desk support to end-users by managing the escalation of outstanding resolution tickets, using remedy ticket tracking software application. Also provided end-users with fire-ids and resetting user's passwords. Maintained and submitted various production jobs using Control-M. Also printed various reports, payroll checks and prepared the output for distribution. Storage Media Operator/Help Desk Support J.P. Morgan CHASE - Belleville, MI May 2005 to June 2007 Monitored various system network applications for error messages. While using Lotus Notes 6.5.4 e-mail/Sametime and Novell Client 4.90 for Windows network workstations. Load and unload tapes onto SL8500 (StorageTek) silo. Performed various  tape management functions to prepare the tapes for off-site pick-up using Secure Sync, also ran weekly backups and restores on SAP/PS, Prime Pass, HP/9000 server systems, and on NSC8 (Tandem) system. Labeled and stored onsite tapes in tape library. Mounted tapes on 3480 and 3490 tape drive for testing. Degaussed and destroyed old tape media before it's disposal. Help to restore connection to IBM-3494 VTS system servers and SL8500 silos. While also providing technical support for all mid-range and mainframe hardware devices associated with the system. Office Manager Creative Waste Disposal - Detroit, MI July 2001 to February 2002 Provided customers with quotes via telephone and/or in person on all delivery work order requests. Answered and operated multi-phone line system on inbound and outbound calls. Set-up the daily run logs, for pickup and delivery orders for the drivers. Set up appointments for drug testing for new hires. Processed the company's invoices using DecEasy software application. Prepared sales and purchase order forms, ordered office supplies and equipment. Submitted payroll hours to ADP to be processed. Made copies, faxed, filed, typed, and printed letters, labels and memos using various Microsoft  software applications. While acting as the liaison between the company's presidents, the drivers and customers. AS/400 Systems Operator/Help Desk Support Trinity Health Services - Farmington Hills, MI April 2000 to February 2001 Monitored and controlled various jobs in the job and output queues on the OS/400 operating system and its associated hardware devices. Entered commands on AS/400 operating system for prompt and error messages on program job abends. Also responsible for providing second-level help desk support on various hardware and software related issues.  Tracked, logged and managed outstanding resolution tickets using HEAT ticket tracking application. Varied on and off drives and printers associated with the system, released and monitored jobs in the job queues. Entered the medical billing data protocol using the company's own software application (Medipak), also trained others on the billing protocol  process. Monitored and provided system support on all system servers and network systems for availability and reset them, when necessary. Printed various reports generated in the spool queue on the systems 4635 MX laser printers. Computer Operator Acxiom Corporation - Southfield, MI April 1998 to January 2000 Provided operational support for data retention and recovery issues of all production jobs running in the job/print queues. Monitored and managed multi-platform environment utilizing MVS, VSE, TCP/IP and the AS/400 (OS/390) operating system. Performed weekly IPL on AS/400 operating system running under (J.D. Edwards), source system. Reset user id passwords, when required. Performed peer to peer evaluation reviews. Initialized and cleaned cartridge tapes and reels. Recorded the status and followed-up on all outstanding resolution tickets using GroupWise software application. Performed daily backups on UNIX based server system. Maintained general maintenance and upkeep on all hardware devices associated with the system. Lift and loaded stock onto impact, OCE 2240 and laser printers and then prepared its output for distribution. Computer Operator/Help Desk Support INTERIM TECHNOLOGY - Southfield, MI April 1996 to April 1998 Monitored and controlled message switching on devices associated with large mainframe and mid-range operating systems. Monitored and processed various batch jobs. Also mounted tapes onto 3490 tape drives for various job requests, running  on the system. Conducted system/subsystem; startups, shutdowns, backups and restores.  Multi-tasked and prioritize daily workload. Printed jobs out in the print queue, cleared out paper jams and changed the consumables' on the printers, cleaned the tape drives and labeled and stored various tape media. Dialed modem lines to restore connectivity. Tracked and managed outstanding resolution tickets using remedy ticket tracking application. Performed troubleshooting and error recovery protocol on servers, silos, storage, routers/switches and hardware devices associated with the system, while utilizing various operating systems; hardware devices and software applications: AS/400-720 & 830 models, MVS, VSE/ESA, TCP/IP, JCL, DOS, VTAM, UNIX, IBM, HP 3000, Xerox, LAN/WAN, TSO, CICS, CA-7, while also providing PC Support. Education Bachelor of Business Administration in Business Administration Davenport University - Dearborn, MI September 2001 to August 2004 Computer Information Technology Highland Park Community College - Highland Park, MI January 1985 to May 1987 Skills COBOL, DASD, JES, AS/400, OS/400, RPG, RPG/400, UNISYS, UNIX, ACTIVE DIRECTORY, TCP, TCP/IP, EXCHANGE, JAVA, JCL, CICS, DATABASE, DB2, ORACLE, SQL