Student IT Worker Student <span class="hl">IT</span> Worker Student IT Worker - University of New Orleans/Department of Health and Hospitals Baton Rouge, LA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Student IT Worker University of New Orleans/Department of Health and Hospitals - Baton Rouge, LA December 2016 to Present Use of logic and information to troubleshoot a wide array of user issues  ? Problem solve by corroborating with fellow student IT workers  ? Translate technical issues into easier to follow terms. Intern Security Analyst University of New Orleans/Department of Health and Hospitals - Baton Rouge, LA August 2017 to January 2018 Ran remote social engineering and security assessment campaigns on clients  ? Enhanced organization and time management skills  ? Gained insight from seasoned industry veterans. Retail Salesman Gameware - Baton Rouge, LA September 2014 to October 2017 Managed hectic store front on my own  ? Sharpened "on the fly" thinking skills  ? Built long term relationships with customers    Honors:  • Fall 2016 Dean's List at LSU  • Spring 2017 Dean's List at LSU  • Honors TOPS Scholarship Award  • Commemorative Coin for Excellence Presented by the Army ROTC Commander    Organizations & Activities:  • LSU Business Fraternity "Delta Sigma Pi" Executive Staff Member  • LSU ROTC Ranger Challenge Team Member Office Secretary Baptist Collegiate Ministry June 2012 to 2013 Baptist Collegiate Ministry, Baton Rouge  ? Interacted with and maintained BCM database  ? Received, sorted, and cataloged data packets Education Louisiana State University (LSU) - Baton Rouge, LA March 2017 to December 2018 Skills Retail, Troubleshooting, People Person, Technical Support, Information Technology Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/micah-kimball-itstudent Groups Delta Sigma Pi Present DSP is a collegiate business fraternity for students of commerce to network, learn, and grow together. I am an active member and have recently completed time our executive staff. LSU Army ROTC September 2012 to May 2013 I spent my freshmen year as part of the Army ROTC program on campus learning from high caliber leaders as well as being placed on the traveling competitive Ranger Challenge Team. I spent another two semesters(Fall 2016 & Spring 2017) in the Army ROTC fitness course as a civilian.