Director of Information Technology Director of Information Technology Director, Information Technology Operations, Security - Pinnacle Entertainment Inc. - Boomtown New Orleans Casino and Hotel New Orleans, LA Information Technology Director with responsibility for all day to day oversight of IT needs for my location. I work collaboratively with administration, staff, and other IT leaders facilitating efficient and effective delivery of IT services to my location. I am the liaison between the property and IT. Responsible for participating in property meetings and operational huddles as the IT representative. I may also serve as a point of escalation to the property ensuring appropriate awareness and visibility to matters at hand are addressed timely. I oversee, monitor and report progress of property-specific and company-wide IT initiatives. I use industry best-practice framework such as ITIL. I assist in driving efficiencies by implementing continuous process improvement opportunities to improve the effectiveness of IT services delivered.    I focus on making effective change. I use certain metrics to measure my effectiveness and identify areas for improvement. I have a proven track record of success managing complex technology infrastructures in multiple environments. Over the past several years I have made improvements to guest satisfaction, team member engagement, cost reduction, and passing regulation audits. I partner with other departments in delivering innovative, effective, and reliable solutions that support and enhance the IT functions within my company. I work to increase the return on the investment in technology by promoting smart decision-making, solving problems intelligently, increasing the rate of project success, and fostering a skilled and professional staff.    Additional training includes: Six Sigma Green Black, ITIL, CISM, CISSP, and CEH    KEY AREAS OF RESPONSIBILITY:    • Financial management  • Cyber Security and Compliance  • Customer Satisfaction   • IT Project Management  • Service Delivery Management  • Team Development     TECHNICAL EXPERIENCE:    • VMware, Cisco UCS, HP SANS  • Analog/Digital (Nortel & NEC), and VoIP Telecom  • MPLS, MetroE, WAN/LAN IP networks, load balancers  • SolarWinds, Active Directory, WSUS, Office365, SCCM, Ghost, Dameware   • InsightVM, Symantec End Point, Cisco Umbrella, DUO MFA Remote support, Company Portal, Sysinternals  • ComVault, Veeam, EMC backups and HP Tape backup Management  • Ruckus, Aruba, and Cisco wireless  • Desktop, laptop and peripherals support  • Eaton KvA backup power  • AS400, HP, Dell servers admin  • Digital Signage, POS,and Guest Loyalty kiosk   • Footprint\EasyVista Helpdesk management  • Apple\Android Mobile device management and support Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Director of Information Technology Penn National Gaming, Inc. - New Orleans, LA October 2018 to August 2019 • Responsible for directing the overall operations and staff of the IT department. Develops, implements and manages operational goals and monitors achievements of performance and profit objectives.  • Ensure that scheduling is done in an effective and efficient manner, while maintaining labor costs, meeting staffing objectives and achieving guest satisfaction.  • Responsible for preparing, monitoring and adhering to budgets and ensuring compliance to departmental budget initiatives. Reports budget concerns / deviations to the Executive Management / GM.  • Enthusiastically supports, actively promotes, and demonstrates superior customer service in accordance with department and company standards and programs. Ensures customer service standards are followed by all team members and addresses issues as they arise. Responsible for the overall achievement of department customer service goals.  • Collaborates closely with the Corporate Information technology organization regarding cross functional governance, architecture, standards, etc.  • Plans, develops, organizes, implements, directs and evaluates the property's information and technology functions.  • Participates in the development of the corporation's strategic logics to include plans and programs as a strategic partner but particularly from the perspective of the impact on information and technology.  • Translates the strategic logics and tactical business plans into operational plans and systems structures.  • Manages the remote access process.  • Evaluates and advises on the impact of long range planning of new strategies and regulatory action as those items impact the technical operating platforms of the property.  • Develops design and implementation strategies to ensure property is kept abreast of technology trends within the industry in accordance with enterprise governance and architectural standards.  • Develops integration strategies to ensure optimal efficiency of computer systems and programs with existing end users.  • Develops and maintains disaster recovery strategies to ensure business continuance in case of systems failures in accordance with enterprise governance and architectural standards.  • Ensures adequate processing and storage capacity for growing business demands based on customer volumes.  • Continually reassesses the competitiveness of all information assets against the relevant comparable companies, industries and markets.  • Establishes credibility throughout the property with management and the employees in order to be an effective listener and problem solver of information issues.  • Develops appropriate policies and procedures to ensure the integrity of all deployed information systems in accordance with enterprise governance and architectural standards  • Coordinates the interdepartmental efforts relative to information systems throughout the property.  • Provides technical advice and knowledge to executive team.  • Responsible for ensuring the compliance with all regulatory compliance within area of responsibility and reporting potential issues to Executive Management / GM.  • Maintains strict confidentiality in all departmental and company matters. Director, Information Technology Operations, Security Pinnacle Entertainment Inc. - Boomtown New Orleans Casino and Hotel - Harvey, LA October 2014 to October 2018 70058  • Accomplishments  ? 99.6% annual system uptime.  ? Improved SLA metric from 5.4 days to 2.6 days.  ? Reduced annual operational spending by 10%.  ? Zero employee turnover.  ? Improve employee satisfaction 4.2 to 4.3.  ? User satisfaction score 99.7%.  ? Pass all IT audits for SOX, PCI, Louisiana State regulations  ? Successfully completed 15- 20 projects per year that included management of schedules, costs, quality, and change management.  • Leadership / Management / Mentorship  ? Directs the day-to-day operations and activities of the team within the IT department encompassing multiple functions, services and systems including, but not limited to, operating systems, networks and servers, database management and program support.  ? Responsible for a multi-million dollar annual IT operating budget. I monitor cost to assigned areas to assure sound fiscal control; prepares annual budget requests; assures effective and efficient use of budgeted funds, personnel, materials, facilities, and time.  ? Responsible for 24/7 IT operations providing reliable IT services to our internal and external customers. Manage a daily operation of over seven hundred (700) service request a month.  ? Provides 1st, 2nd, and 3rd level support through ticket, email or phone submission from all users. Attempts to resolve incidents and requests without escalation. Escalates to other teams across PNK and third parties as needed.  ? Directs and supervises employees, and provides mentoring and guidance to employees at lower job levels.  ? Supervises team to include: prioritizing and assigning work; conducting performance evaluations; and, making hiring, termination, and disciplinary recommendations.  ? Provides effective staff management through timely, candid, and constructive feedback.  ? Responsible for leading a staff to deliver quantifiable business results. Develops staff to their fullest potential and provides opportunities designed to enhance career growth.  ? Develops and cross-trains staff to ensure adequate coverage and succession planning.  ? Drives resolution of business problem(s) to completion.  ? Making a broad range of critical decisions based on the business requirements. Appling sound judgement, escalating issues and decisions to the VP\CIO when necessary.  ? Analyzes and standardizes SOPs to improve efficiency, compliance and effectiveness of operations.  ? Drive continuous improvement to processes and procedures to improve service to user community using Six Sigma and ITIL framework  ? Provide critical project management for all IT related projects: To include all phases such as; requirements definition, design, build, implementation and transition to a maintenance environment.  ? Procurement of all IT assets and services  ? Participates in planning and execution of Emergency Preparedness and Response activities related to all user and site support needs in the event of a disaster including coordinating the delivery and setup of temporary networks, workstations and other devices.  • Technology Solutions  ? In conjunction with the CIO, responsible for the overall architecture, design, development, and maintenance of the technical hardware and software infrastructure with a focus on hardware and software, data security, network design, cloud computing, vendor software and systems integration.  ? Knowledgeable of IT security Governance Frameworks such as of COBIT, NIST 800-53, 800-171, 800-125A, 800-115, and 800-42.  ? Maintain In-depth knowledge of wireless backhaul. With the ability to design, deploy and maintain services.  ? Maintain Change Management and control procedures for current and proposed Information systems changes and/or enhancements.  ? Manages and oversees project timelines, task assignments, cost, and milestones.  ? Leads infrastructure and system integration efforts.  ? Maintains in-depth knowledge of application technologies.  ? Ensures all technical deployments are properly implemented, integrated and supported.  ? Office 365 (Exchange Online, Office Online, SharePoint.  ? E-mail filtering, Domain Awareness.  ? Approve, control, and monitor firewall configurations and changes..  ? Follow industry product lifecycle for IT hardware, network infrastructure and security products.  ? Review all service contracts.  ? Maintains knowledge of WAN / LAN technology, while being security minded.  ? Maintains knowledge of Cloud Computing Platforms (VMware)  ? Maintains knowledge of Microsoft administration technologies (AD, Group Policies, Office 365\Exchange).  ? Power distribution management  ? Responsible for 3 local datacenters. Hardware includes: MPLS, PBX, WiFi controllers, UCS Virtualized environment, AV, AS400,UPS, load balancers and Dell\HP servers  ? Administer 650 to 700 users locally and 100 users remotely  ? Technical software and hardware used in daily functions includes but not limited to: VMWare, insightVM, Websense, SCCM, Footprints, Symantec Endpoint, Mobile Iron, Sysinternals, Splunk, WSUS, Outlook Exchange w\ Office 365 admin, AS400, Access Control systems, cloud-based datacenter resources, Solarwinds, Dameware, Aruba and Ruckus  ? Monitor the performance of all computer systems, executing appropriate escalation and corrective actions for all hardware and software problems in accordance with pre-defined service level agreements.  ? Research, identify, and implement solutions as well as perform computer and/or network security vulnerability assessments and scans to identify, evaluate and mitigate security risks, threats and vulnerabilities. Executive Manager, Information Technology Operations, Security Tropicana Entertainment Inc - Baton Rouge, LA May 2012 to October 2014 70802  • Reporting to the Chief Information Officer (CIO) and Director of Finance on results of CapEx projects, operations, and technology budgets.  • Responsible for a seven (7) figure annual operating budget  • Oversee the IT operations of ten (10) departments and six (6) Food and Beverage outlets.  • Responsible for the Administration Office building, a three hundred (300) room Hotel, and Casino with eight-hundred (800) slots machines.  • Maintenance over two-hundred (200) computers, forty (40) servers, and three (3) data rooms.  • Responsible for 24/7 IT operations providing reliable IT services to our internal and external customers.  • Project manager for all IT related projects and some non- IT related projects.  • Experience with telecom and data circuits for WAN connections communicating over several locations.  • Participates in strategic and operational governance processes of the business organization as a member of the management team.  • Appointed member of the Change Management Board that governance IT changes across all properties.  • Leads IT strategic and operational planning to achieve business goals by fostering innovation, prioritizing IT initiatives and coordinating the evaluation, deployment and management of current and future IT systems across the organization.  • Develops and maintains an appropriate IT organizational structure that supports the needs of the business, monitoring and implementing security and disaster recovery planning.  • Establishes IT departmental goals, objectives and operating procedures.  • Identifies opportunities for the appropriate and cost-effective investment of resources in IT systems.  • Ensures continuous delivery of IT services through our service level agreements with end users and monitoring of IT systems performance.  • Implemented numerous application servers including SQL 2005, 2008, IIS, and many others  • Implemented Cisco Call Manager Express IP telephony infrastructure to upgrade to from Nortel analog\digital phone system  • Knowledgeable in Windows XP, 7 Enterprise, Domain Environment, and Active Directory  • Knowledge of Windows Server 2008 R2 and Microsoft Exchange  • Financial programs support with products such as Infimum, MMS, and other applications  • Experience with the following various proprietary system but not limited to: ATMs, Gaming Systems, Casino Accounting, electronic access controls, biometrics systems, and surveillance systems  • Proficient in Windows operating systems, Microsoft Office Suites, WSUS and anti-virus tools and procedures.  • Mobile platforms: Android & Apple products  • Reviews all IT hardware and software acquisitions for licensing and life-cycle evaluation  • Negotiate and review all IT contracts.  • Promotes and oversees strategic relationships with vendors and partner organizations.  • Recruit, develop, and mentor the IT staff in accordance with human resource objectives and personnel policies. Complex Manager, Information Technology Operations, Security Starwood Hotels and Resorts - New Orleans, LA July 2007 to May 2012 70130  • Reporting directly to the Regional IT Director of North America and General Manager on quarterly results of projects, operations, and technology budgets.  • Solely responsible for support, administration, and planning of all network, servers, and application initiatives for 2 of a 24/7 IT operation of two (2) four-star hotels providing reliable IT services to our internal and external customers.  • Responsible for increasing revenues, minimizing costs, fostering a team work environment between departments and delivering enhanced guest services.  • Passing all internal and external Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) and Payment Card Industry (PCI) QSA audits.  • Responsible for managing all IT related projects throughout the entire process from conception to closure.  • Responsible for the management of a six (6) figure capital and annual budget.  • Systems and software include but not limited to: NEC 2400, Nortel PBX, SharePoint administration, Microsoft Active Directory, MS Exchange, SQL 2005 & 2008, Windows Server 2003 & 2008, IIS Web Server, Citrix Xen App Server, WSUS, McAfee Enterprise, Micros 9700, Delphi, Cisco Net Assist, Packeteer, inSSIDer, and NetworkActiv Sniiffer.  • Designed WAN network topology to connect multiple locations to include MetroE, MPLS and dynamic routing.  • Combine multiple ISPs to create redundant service failover for internet connectivity  • Installed and tested disaster recovery hotsite network infrastructure and recovery platform using VMWare ESX Server  • Improved wireless network infrastructure to provide better services for guest and associates.  • Implemented numerous application servers including SQL 2005, 2008, IIS, and others.  • Ensure secure IT operations by implementing and managing all systems to the IT security policies, IT-related internal controls and applicable external security standards.  • Develop, maintain and test Contingency and Disaster Recovery plans with the location management and operations teams  • Verifying data backup integrity and verifying restoration of data test using tape and cloud backup services.  • Effectively communicate to management team and user community on department projects.  • Ensure anti-virus program, operating system and database patch management on all appropriate IT systems is current and maintained.  • Ensure appropriate and timely management of IT contracts, support and licensing including managing service level agreements. Maintain and audit a library of all IT-related vendor contacts, support contracts including on and off-support hours with terms and relevant dates, software license information, capital asset hardware inventory, and contractual breaches as appropriate.  • Manage and motivate any subordinate staff to achieve high levels of job satisfaction and productivity. Provide for the professional development and training of personnel that reports directly or indirectly to this position.  • Writing technical manuals for end-users and policies/procedures for technical support personnel.  • Maintain a healthy relationship of communication with system vendors and meet with representatives when needed. Contract IT Specialist Teksystems, Contracts - Metairie, LA June 2006 to July 2007 70002  • Managed twelve (12) IT contractors for defense department's computer deployment contract; wrote deployment team's technical instructions; created workflow process for deployment of computers; backed up and restored data; installed and configured advance software; reviewed and updated IT contracts; negotiated any changes; ensured vendors adhered to licensing agreements.  • Converted old mail to MS Exchange; oversaw technical service department for student services; resolved PC issues for students, faculty and staff; trained them to use various technology devices; increased efficiency / resolved complaints in Laptop Repair Center; provided second-level technical support to Help Desk. Independent Contractor New Orleans, LA September 2005 to June 2006 70118  • Collaborated with state and local officials on cultural economic plans immediately following Hurricane Katrina.  • Developed monthly budgets and expense reports; created office protocols / procedures; coordinated daily operations; managed fundraising events, website development and technology consults. Computer Systems Analyst Xavier University of Louisiana - New Orleans, LA January 2001 to September 2005 70125  • Supported all hardware and software for the University including the College of Pharmacy and the Xavier Health Clinic  • Implements programs and system changes as designed by senior staff and meeting established deadlines.  • Participates in the review of end user needs making recommendations for customizations, software upgrades and new software applications.  • Performing 1st, 2nd, and various 3rd level support in the IT department.  • Responsible for independently troubleshooting and resolving technical problems for users and created hardware / software standardization for PCs campus-wide to assure efficiency and increase quality.  • Additional responsibilities included; planning, coordinating, and implementing network security measures. Creating enterprise-level virus and spyware protection; drafting Security Administration policies. Analyzing and removing malicious software. Responding to denial of service/cyber attacks and network security issues. Contract Systems Analyst Teksystems, Contracts - Metairie, LA October 1996 to December 2000 70002  • Worked with Hibernia Bank and US Postal Service to analyze existing systems and design new IT solutions to improve efficiency and productivity. Examined existing business models and flow of data; designed improvements; implemented the solutions.  • Identified options for potential solutions and assessed them for technical and business suitability; created logical / innovative solutions to complex problems; drew up proposals; produced feasibility reports; performed quality assurance. Adhered to budgets and deadlines; oversaw implementation of new systems; wrote user manuals; trained users. Education Computer Science University of New Orleans Applied Computing Systems & Technology Tulane University Skills Strategic Planning, Customer Service, Network Administration, Vmware, exchange, IT Management, Itil, Vendor Management, Active Directory, Disaster Recovery, Citrix, Cisco Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ May 2007 to Present Six Sigma Green Belt April 2010 to Present