Technical Support Analyst Technical Support <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Technical Support Analyst - CGI Federal Garfield Heights, OH IT professional 12+ years of IAM Security Management, software installation / PC repair/upgrade experience. Proficient in Windows, excellent customer support skills, troubleshooting hardware and software issues. 3+ years of IT call center experience. Knowledge of HIPAA laws, PHI, PCI, and SOX compliance.  * Software: MS Outlook, RSA Tokens, MS Office 2010-365, Citrix, Forefront Identity Manager (FIM), Tivoli Access Manager (TAM/TIM), SABRE (Airline Software), MS Service Manager, HP Service Manager, , Vanguard IAM, BMC IAM, Anti-virus/Firewalls/Symantec Endpoint, SAP, SharePoint, Lotus Notes, Active Directory, LDAP, VPN  * Hardware: PCs, MAC, Printers, iPhones, Cisco IP Phone  * Languages: PowerShell, Perl, JavaScript, SQL, RACF, HTML  * Other (Operating Systems): Windows 7-2010, Windows Server 2008 R2/2012, Linux/UNIX. Z/OS, MAC OSX, OS/2, Work Experience Technical Support Analyst CGI Federal June 2015 to Present Day-to-day management and administration of JIRA including workflows, user accounts, custom fields, dashboards, reports, security schemas, issue schemas, project creation, etc. Work with stakeholders to determine ways to optimize/improve JIRA setup and workflows. Map current processes and establish goals for improving, automating and increasing the technical agility of the organization. Perform some basic project management, communications and reporting duties.  Develop metrics, dashboards and advanced filters in JIRA to provide end-users and business leadership with meaningful operational/performance metrics and status reports. Work with PPM (Project Portfolio Management) Plugins. Example: Bamboo, Bitbucket, Confluence, Big Picture/Gantt, Structure etc. Provide end user coaching, training and support. Maintain user access to securable customer system resources (Windows/Active Directory, two factors Authentication). Provide IT support to internal/external staff of the Health Care business unit. Work with ticketing systems, voice and email requests to ensure resolutions are made with the established SLA and corporate policies. Perform detailed analysis of access requests/processes and provide documentation and recommendations for improvement to senior team members. Suggest improvements to current processes, adding value and efficiencies to overall operations. Provide access to staff of various applications including VPN, RSA setup as well as create onboarding and exiting of employees using active directory and lockout tool. Field Technician Barrister Global Services Network - Hammond, LA December 2011 to June 2015 Independent Contractor - Field Desktop Technician  Provided 1st and 2nd level support for break/fix utilizing remote and on-site resolutions for local contracted vendors for computers, SCCM - PC upgrades, POS machines, and printers. IT Security Administrator Contractor First Energy - Akron, OH June 2013 to June 2014 Randstad Technologies)  Maintain user access to securable customer system resources (Windows/Active Directory, Mainframe, two factors Authentication) performing tasks: Creation / configuration of user logon IDs and updating user control lists. Assist resource owners/ IT Staff in understanding and responding to security access exceptions. Created, added, modified internal and external users IDs/RBAC access on Windows domain, Outlook, Lotus Notes, VPN, Symantec Endpoint protection, mailbox creation, MS Exchange, and other supported platforms and software using LDAP, Active Directory, SAP, FIM, HP Service Manager while following the FERC and SOX guidelines for compliance. Data Protection/Encryption, Email and Web Application and Social Engineering, meet (SLA), HIPAA data lifecycle privacy, provide access to iPhones, Smartcards, disposable passwords and RSA tokens Customer Service Rep Servisair, Inc - Cleveland, OH December 2012 to June 2014 Frontier Airlines)  Provided exceptional Customer Service to passengers traveling on Frontier or Vision Airlines, from Cleveland Hopkins airport for domestic and International flights. Issue tickets through SABRE system, check bags at the Ticket Counter. Provide service at the gate for departures and arrivals. Enforced safety/ security measures according to Homeland Security rules and protected sensitive (SIDA) airport zones. Troubleshoot PCs and Printer issues and Installed upgrades for ticket and baggage printers. Systems Management Security Specialist/Contractor IBM, Inc - Cedar Knolls, NJ May 2010 to September 2010 Artech Technologies, Inc.)  Documented results for testing of IT general controls for compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley. Assisted in audits of application, operating systems, platforms, and operating procedures in accordance with the performing of SOX section 404 compliance testing, run scripts to obtain and examine information required to evaluate IT risks, prepare and present resulting reports related to findings of general controls IT infrastructure, databases, platforms and operating systems. Perform remediation of access for SOX compliance. IT Security Access Management Contractor PNC Bank - Cleveland, OH June 2007 to May 2009 Randstad Technologies)  Provide Federated identity, single sign-on, for computer account management, and account provisioning processes. Assured data integrity Encryption, Biometrics setup and access, RACF mainframe access, Active Directory, and Perl scripting. Support for z/OS, security administration for Mainframe. Met Service Level Agreement (SLA), and HIPAA data lifecycle privacy as well as GLBA to minimize the threat of information loss and met SOX compliance. Provide access to Smartcards, disposable passwords and RSA tokens. Conduct research and SQL database administration. Assist with creating, testing and implementing network disaster recovery plans as part of Disaster Recovery Team, learning the guidelines and criteria to became familiar system vulnerabilities. Streamline, automate and eliminate redundancy associated with labor-intensive processes, to employ the use of more efficient and time-sensitive processes. Computer Lab Assistant Tri-C Community College May 2001 to July 2006 Create student IDs / update user control lists using Active Directory. Report information security misuse and educate students / resource owners in implementation of necessary information security controls and updates. Perform end of semester SCCM for PCs and MAC computers. Education Bachelor Degree in Information Technology American Business and Technology University - St. Maarten, AN 2019 Bachelors Identity Management Institute/Center for Identity 2017 Associates of Applied Science in Network Systems Administration ITT Technical Institute - Cleveland, OH Skills Help Desk, Helpdesk Support, Tech Support, Service Desk, Active Directory, Comptia, Desktop Support, MAC, Customer Support, Customer Service, Call Center, Linux Assessments Verbal Communication — Proficient February 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to effectively convey information when speaking. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ikv0v9aetgfe8bp Technical Support Skills — Highly Proficient February 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/rpp93-puqjqvr7e5 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.