Fraud Analyst Fraud <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Cambridge Springs, PA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Fraud Analyst Erie Insurance Group - Erie, PA April 2019 to Present I proactively review insurance claims to identify potential fraud. I also assist the SIU field investigators with collecting evidence, conducting research and providing link analysis. Inside Claims Adjuster Erie Insurance Group - Erie, PA September 2017 to April 2019 I am responsible investigating and processing the liability on auto claims for single car and multi vehicle accidents  Routinely secure recorded statements, write investigative reports, and correspond with customers, adjusters, law enforcement, agents and entity relative to adjusting claims. Security Site Supervisor POINT SECURITY COMPANY - Meadville, PA June 2014 to September 2017 Responsibilities  As the Site Supervisor I am responsible for the hiring, training, scheduling, and counseling of a hospital security force of 25+ security officers which work 24/7 and 365 days per year to ensure that the hospital remains a safe & secure environment. My customer service skills have been key to working smoothly & efficiently with hospital administration, clinical supervisors and contracted service agents to solve problems, review core statistics & issues, and develop strong and effective solutions, policies and procedures. Private Investigator Porter Investigative Consulting, LLC - Cambridge Springs, PA February 2008 to September 2017 Responsibilities  President and owner of a full-service professional investigative consulting firm specializing in anti-counterfeiting & anti-piracy investigations, corporate fraud investigations, background investigations, and process of service. Director of Investigations Intellectual Property Services, Inc - Edinboro, PA February 2007 to February 2014 As the Senior Investigator I established the Investigative Department at IPS which provided complex brand protection and secure purchase investigations for numerous Fortune 500 corporate clients. I was responsible for client interaction, case management and report creation, liaison with law enforcement agencies, background investigations, and undercover resource creation. I conducted well over two thousand investigations which assisted pharmaceutical and software industry clients in filing civil lawsuits and criminal charges to protect their intellectual property. Private Investigator Gentile-Meinert Associates - Monaca, PA June 2000 to June 2006 As the Director of the Erie branch office I was routinely engaged in civil & criminal investigations, surveillance activities, background research, subpoena service, provided physical security, conducted fraud investigations, accident reconstruction, and compiled witness statements. I was responsible for all client interactions, providing professional reports and testimony, acquisition of investigative resources, client development, and liaison with law enforcement. Sub-contracted Agent George Yuhasz and Associates 1998 to June 2000 Work on a sub-contract basis on private investigative assignments and coordinate company overseas communications. IT Assistant Edinboro University of Pennsylvania 1996 to 1999 Responsible for the installation of computer and telephone wires. Extensive experience in repairing telephone and computer systems. Sub-Contractor Porter Construction 1992 to 1996 Performed residential construction tasks including site preparation, framing, roofing, electrical, heating, insulation, drywall, finish work, painting, and cost estimating. Education B.A. in Criminal Justice Edinboro University of Pennsylvania May 2000 Communications Edinboro University of Pennsylvania May 2000