SR. BUSINESS SYSTEMS ANALYST SR. BUSINESS SYSTEMS <span class="hl">ANALYST</span> SR. BUSINESS SYSTEMS ANALYST - Optum Nashville, TN Work Experience SR. BUSINESS SYSTEMS ANALYST Optum - Franklin, TN December 2017 to Present Senior Business Systems Analyst for a large healthcare technology organization, that provides prepay and post pay claims editing, waste and abuse analytics, predictive scoring models and focused claims review. Work with external clients ingesting, mapping and validation of client data for Pre and Post pay Claims, Provider and Member data, and internal clients after development of data on validation process for client go-live and analytics for post implementation.  • Successfully mapped and validated data for two side by side client implementations.  • Currently working Director of Architecture selecting a mapping and validation tool  • SME to Data Governance on current Common Data Model Project. REMOTE SR. BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE ANALYST Rezult Technologies - Brentwood, TN May 2017 to December 2017 Senior Business Intelligence Analyst for Business Intelligence & Reporting Analytics for a medical benefits management company. Provide business analysis for business intelligence and analytics projects, reporting and enhancements.  * Current project planning and developing Business Glossary to consolidate various sources of information into a manageable single source of truth, provide business meaning to technical information, support data accountability and allow end users to research business terms within a technical environment.  * Created custom analytics and reports for external clients SR. BUSINESS ANALYST, IT SECURITY & COMPLIANCE Community Health Systems - Franklin, TN May 2015 to May 2017 Senior Business/Data Analyst/Project Management in IT Security & Compliance. Current projects, Data Classification Corporate Project, and GRC (Governance, Risk & Compliance) application. Responsible for gathering requirements, development of business processes, data modeling, technical writing, workflow analysis and dashboard creation for current and past projects. Responsible for project management documentation, financials along with design and administration of database for the project data.  * Selected by VP/CISO as point for communication and deployment for all corporate departments for Data Classification and GRC projects.  * Successfully managed project for moving 75 facilities onto corporate internet REMOTE SR. BUSINESS ANALYST DATA GOVERNANCE, COMPLIANCE Cigna/Healthspring - Franklin, TN September 2014 to May 2015 Senior Business App Development Analyst in Data Governance responsible for creating Business Rules on various types of data, validating data from various sources (flat files or Database tables), data mining or profiling using various query tools, (Microsoft SQL Server and Netezza) and developing data models. Working with SME's on provider, claims, encounter, financial, and risk on compilation and integrity of data.    Professional Experience ~~~~~~~. SR. BUSINESS ANALYST IT Fresenius RX - Franklin, TN June 2014 to August 2014 As Business Analyst in IT, responsible for software testing for production software for each new build presented by vendor and day to day issues presented by Operations. In addition to testing, tasked with writing regression and UAT Testing for end users and forge strong stakeholder relationships.  * Train end users for each new deployment  * Act as liaison to Operations to gather documentation to produce SOP's to combine process and software  * Analytics and reporting on client data SR. BUSINESS/DATA ANALYST IT Optum/Division of United Healthcare - Franklin, TN September 2013 to May 2014 Business Analyst in Chart Operations, responsible for various projects, long and short term dictated by the business needs of department for Chart Review and Coding submitted to CMS (Medicare/Medicaid). Gathered requirements, created process flow documentation, technical drawings, SOP's, and training materials, including Power Point presentations. Develop detailed project plans, responsible for set up and facilitation of all meetings, tracking all risks and issues and capturing all deliverables for project and management of development team.  Accomplishments  * Developed and created "Training and On Boarding Manual" for Chart Operations Department.  ? After Senior Management reviewed, asked to reproduce all departments. Submitted to Corporate Compliance as approved Training Materials SR. ANALYST/CONSULTANT Robert Half International - Nashville, TN December 2012 to August 2013 As a Consultant/ Analyst worked for clients in various types of engagements depending on the need of the client. Worked with the client to gather and document functional and non-functional requirements, set goals, define tasks and resources to ensure that all engagements are delivered on time, within scope and within budget.  Accomplishments  * Second Harvest Food Bank - re-designed Access Database to capture departmental data for by Finance in annual budgeting process and HR in recruiting and staffing. Reporting and analytics creation.  * At Sarnova - reduced AP $1,000,000, bringing payables current to 60 days.  * Bridgestone - analysis and cleanup of financial account containing 6,000,00 items created during conversion and startup of SAP SR. BUSINESS ANALYST/ACCESS DEVELOPER - IT Affinion Group - Franklin, TN August 2012 to November 2012 Responsible for creating and developing an Access Database for the payment of commissions to Affinion clients due to company wide merging of servers to a central location. During this process worked to eliminate mailing of paper statements converting to electronic mail and eliminating paper checks for clients to ACH transactions.  * Proactively communicate and collaborate with internal customers to analyze information needs and functional requirements and deliver the following artifacts as needed for creation of Access Database: (Functional requirements (Business Requirements Document), iii, Use Cases, GUI, Screen and Interface designs) SR. BUSINESS ANALYST/QA Viacom Media International - New York, NY April 2012 to July 2012 Responsible for gathering, creating and documenting business requirements, creating business process flows creating and writing all Standard Operation Procedures for six (6) billing lines of business for Order to Cash Department, due to company wide changeover of the Accounting/Finance systems to SAP for North America. Delivered Functional and User Acceptance Testing.  * Served as Subject Matter Expert and Implementation Specialist.  * Created Project Plan in MS Project for team in Nashville and New York and created project in PWA to capture deliverables, track risks and issues and software testing documentation.  * Wrote training manuals and business processes, documented technical and process flows in Visio for Accounting/Finance End Users  * Participate in training for Accounting /Finance prior to cut-over date  Accomplishments  * Chosen by Company Project Manager for North America conversion to participate in software testing and specialist to work with SAP/IBM  Development Team, writing and implementing Test scenarios, Test cases, and Regression tests.  * Completed project on time. REMOTE SR. BUSINESS ANALYST, IT Windsor Healthcare - Franklin, TN November 2011 to April 2012 Responsible for extracting data on Medicare Advantage Plans, Member, Claims, Provider and various data from the CMS website, from multi platforms- writing queries, analyzing and formatting into reports and presentations for numerous departments within the organization  Accomplishments  * Created an Access Database for Marketing Department for data analysis and metrics from for various Marketing campaigns  * Complied and wrote requirements documentation (technical, business and process) for various departments, where none existed  * Given additional projects, outside the scope of initial project, all completed  * Responsible for extracting data from multi platforms- writing queries, analyzing and formatting into reports and presentations for numerous departments within the organization.    Professional Experience ~~~~~~~. SR. BUSINESS ANALYST/PROJECT MANAGER ~ CLIENT SERVICES Quorum Health Resources - Brentwood, TN September 2010 to September 2011 Responsible for creation/assembly of annual client value report for client hospitals. Obtain data from over a dozen data sources to support value proposition reporting figures, and analysis of all consulting engagement, strategic plans and expected consequences of those projects. Conducted JAD sessions  Accomplishments  * Exceeded corporate and departmental goals for production of reports  * Selected as Project Manager for development and implementation of new program to transfer documentation from multiple platform/systems into new template for client value reporting.  * Created Access Database as a prototype to test new program, created screen mock- analysis of current/new data, created requirements documentation and business process flows for new program, in addition created SOP's mockups, and training materials for users.  * Compiled data from consulting engagements relating to the Managed Care Contracts, Charge Master, Claims and Reimbursement Issues to track claims and reimbursement data on Medicare and private payors. CONSULTANT/PROJECT MANAGER Grace Children's Clinic - Nashville, TN June 2010 to September 2010 Responsible for startup of new pediatric practice, to include staffing, purchasing, equipment leasing, construction, installation, training and set up of EMR/EHR system, installation and set-up of accounting system, accounting functions, credentialing. Developed detailed project plan to track all phases of the startup and to track all deliverables for meaningful use. Set up Accounts Receivable systems, fee structure, electronic claims and analysis of Medicare and private payor reimbursement.  Accomplishments:  * Clinic operational on time and under budget  * Providers credentialed with 3rd party payors prior to clinic opening, eliminating any billing and reimbursement delays CONSULTANT/FINANCIAL ANALYST Samaritan Counseling Centers of the Mid-South - Memphis, TN May 2009 to June 2010 A non-profit faith-based counseling center with 5 locations, responsible for all areas of accounting/finance, bank reconciliation, month and year end close, general ledger and trial balance, medical billing, reimbursement, claims, financial reporting, and provider credentialing.  Accomplishments:  * Improved operational efficiency for billing/reimbursement procedures through implementation of electronic billing to Medicare and private payors resulting in reduction of AR by 30%  * Implemented analysis and clean-up of accounts receivables system to ensure proper reporting of financial documents, raising trust of Board of Directors, clinicians and staff in organization.  * Completed quantitative analysis of financial data to forecast revenue and identify future trends of donations of center, and analysis on claims and reimbursement issues from Medicare and private payors.    Additional Experience Sr. Business Analyst/Consultant Hurley Medical, P.C October 2008 to April 2009 Contract Position, Hurley Medical, P.C. Sr. Business/Data Analyst - IT Baxter Healthcare Pharmaceutical - Memphis, TN March 2008 to October 2008 Business Analyst/Project Management State Farm - Jackson, TN January 2008 to March 2008 Collections Analyst Portfolio Recovery Associates - Jackson, TN January 2007 to October 2007 Project Manager/Consultant Heart & Vascular Associates - Jackson, TN May 2006 to November 2006 Property Manager Creekside Apartments - Jackson, TN June 2000 to May 2006 HR Director The Jackson Clinic, P.A - Jackson, TN August 1998 to December 1999 HR Manager, Physician Recruiter, Corporate Ethics Instructor Tenet Healthcare Systems - Memphis, TN September 1992 to August 1998 Professional Experience ~~~~~~~. Education Business Law and Finance University of Memphis - Memphis, TN Skills Powerpoint, Business Intelligence, SQL, Excel, access