Identity Access Management Engineer Identity Access Management Engineer Identity Access Management Engineer - CERNER Corporation Elkridge, MD Over 20 years' experience in Information Technology ranging from Systems Repairs & Maintenance, Application & Software Development, Information Security & Analyst, Migration Technician, Systems Administration, Database Analyst and Oracle Identity & Access Management Engineer.  Proven technical and leadership skills that include that ability to manage and lead teams, earn the respect of my peers and supervisors based on my work ethics and commitment to sustainable and achievable goals.  Excellent verbal and written communication skills complement my ability for multi-tasking and handling several disparate projects and tasks at the same time in an organized and flexible manner. Work Experience Identity Access Management Engineer CERNER Corporation October 2017 to Present Bear Institute)  • Participated as the Lead Technical Engineer and Subject Matter Expert in the Re-Platforming project of moving the OIM infrastructure from Windows to Linux Machines  • Responsible for implementing Role Based Access Control (RBAC) across the entire user population in the organization  • Responsible for the Integration of the Person of Interest Module of PeopleSoft with OIM  • Participated as the Lead OIM Technical Engineer with other relevant Teams for the deployment of Self Service Password Reset (SSPR) across the entire user population of the organization  • Continued to participate in Technical Documentation, Policy Formulation and Implementation, User Acceptability Testing (UAT), User Training, etc  • Troubleshooting and resolving access management and provisioning workflow errors  • Perform Identity and access management activities  • Execute and track security process related activities including User ID management  • Manages the strategy and roadmap implementation for Identity and Access Management Platform Tools  • Hands-on architect and developer of a comprehensive IAM system that addresses the challenges of a very complex development and production environment Identity Access Management Analyst CERNER Corporation March 2017 to October 2017 Bear Institute)  • Responsible for administering the OIM Infrastructure and Servers which include but not limited to the WebLogic Servers, OIM and SOA Servers etc  • Implemented Access Based Policy Provisioning for granting users access to Physical Devices such as Badges, Parking etc  • Participated as the Lead Analyst in defining Role Based Access Control (RBAC) for users using a Pilot Group  • Participated in number of integration projects with other teams that included the ERP, PeopleSoft, Active Directory etc.  • Responsible for generating Monthly SLA Reports for Leadership tracking of Service Level Agreements and Key Milestones.  • Continue to be responsible for the key tasks that I had as a Security Analyst. Security Analyst Childrens National Medical Center May 2016 to March 2017 Bear Institute)  • Responsible for provisioning and deprovisioning users in OIM, Active Directory and other critical applications.  • Participated in user training and resolving of user access control issues.  • Participated as part of the IT Security Team in developing security policies and general IT policies.  • Participated in ongoing efforts to transition the IT infrastructure from a manual based system to a fully automated platform.  • Quality Assurance analysis of spreadsheets to ensure that duplicate accounts across the application platform is identified and eliminated.  • Performed Report analysis of raw data in SharePoint and other relevant data warehouses in order to analyze pertinent data and provide processes for report generation with regards to meeting various Service Level Agreement and Key Milestones.  • Performed administrative roles including but not limited to documentation, projects co-ordination, communication, status report, assignment distribution, email correspondence, and follow up etc.  • Performed other technical roles such as report documentation, process documentation, Technical and user manual documentation among others.  • Managed users Accounts in Active Directory and other critical applications  • Perform Internal Audit Queries and Analysis on the Identity and Access Management system and Active Directory to ensure that that Automated Processes were running effectively and efficiently.  • Worked with members of other teams to pull and correlate relevant data and produce conclusive analysis and reports for the Leadership on both Bi-Weekly, Monthly and Quarterly basis. Open PC Lab Supervisor Baltimore Community College (BCCC) October 2015 to February 2016 • Supervised the work study students in the lab as they assisted users.  • Managed and signed the work study students timesheets and engaged in the work scheduling.  • Carried out performance evaluations on the work-study students to determine their deficiency and create an effective training program.  • Engaged in training and guiding of the staff to be able to perform their roles effectively and efficiently.  • Managed Student Accounts in the student domain using Active Directory.  • Implemented Account lockout policies and unlocked and reset user accounts using Active Directory. HelpDesk Support Specialist (Tier One) IntraHealth October 2015 to October 2015 • Managed the DC Office Information Technology Infrastructure.  • Maintained and repaired the computer equipment and peripherals in the office.  • Managed the IT Inventory for the DC office and took stock of surplus and damaged equipment.  • Responsible for Asset tracking of equipment issued out to staff members either on loan or for remote access.  • Responded to trouble tickets from members of staff from the DC office and resolved their IT problems.  • Reconfigured and reimaged computer systems after retrieving them from staff members.  • Managed backup and recovery activities of the staff data using the data recovery tool provided. IT Support Specialist Agora Publishing November 2014 to April 2015 Tier 1 Support)  (Publishing Services)  • Assisted as part of the tier one team with trouble shooting the core systems used by the affiliates that made up the company for their day to day activities,  • Assisted customer service representatives of the various affiliates with resolving technical issues with the customer service application (Advantage) and serving as the first point of contact for troubleshooting bugs and implementing fixes.  • Wrote SQL queries to create reports based on criteria supplied by the affiliates for both the customer service application and the email messaging system for mass mailing.  • Generated SQL Queries to investigate and troubleshoot issues and problems reported by the affiliates with the systems.  • Used HTML and Web Development Script Languages (PHP, REST and JSON) to troubleshoot the in house developed Online Ordering Platform (OPIUM) and Middleware Application. Migration Technician & Site Lead Acentia January 2014 to July 2014 • Migration of Window XP Operating Systems To Windows 7 Operating System at the Dept. of Labor using SCCM.  • Configured, installed and supported tasks relating to the migration such as backup, printer installation and configuration, network access and Share drive access at multiple sites.  • Functioned as a Site Lead at numerous sites supervising team members and coordinating with the clients.  • Interacted closely with the clients via the site POCs (Point of Contacts) to establish and ensure a smooth flow of operations.  • Provided helpdesk support for clients both at site and remotely.  • Functioned as the team's primary inventory manager during the project ensuring that teams had the required equipment and co-coordinating inventory management and assigning.  • Documented processes that were successful in the field and provided practical solutions for difficulties encountered in the field and this became part of the migration process. Sales Associate Burlington Coat Factory Arundel Mills Mall November 2013 to January 2014 • Restocking and arranging merchandize on the racks to enable easy shopping for the customer.  • Interacting with customers to help meet their needs in the shoe dept.  • Price verification for Cashiers,  • Recovery operations. Software Developer Coniah Systems Support Ltd - Lagos, NG April 2011 to August 2013 • Interacted with clients and prepared documentations for operation process automation.  • Developed software applications for clients to automate their operations using VB6, VB.Net and other scripting Languages.  • Implemented software applications at client field sites.  • Trained and received feedback from client staff.  • Provided maintenance and technical support services for clients. Vice President IT Office & Business Supply Systems Ltd May 2005 to August 2008 • Procured and managed all information technology infrastructure and equipment.  • Automated the sales department and trained retail staff on use of automated Invoicing and Billing software.  • Engaged in IT policy formation, direction and implementation. Technical Support Specialist Babcock University, Ogun May 2005 to July 2005 Internship)    • Helped in Planning, Design and implementation of the institution Network Infrastructure.  • Provided help desk services, maintenance, technical support and repairs with network failures via telephone or in person.  • Tested the network for flaws and vulnerabilities and reported when detected and fixed such loopholes.    Leadership Skills Education Bachelor's Skills Active directory, Dns, Exchange, Iis, Remedy, Identity Management, SSO Certifications/Licenses ITIL v3 August 2018 to Present A valid IT Specialist certification Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/gprzsqzyhahpinec Spreadsheets with Microsoft Excel — Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate’s Microsoft Excel knowledge including common tools, PivotTables, conditional & nested formulas, and custom visuals. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/z1ac-dguhr7en-mg Problem Solving — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/6lt-yxt69q9crtsn Critical Thinking — Highly Proficient July 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/8lc5a6zjij2roh2f Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.