Office 365 Premier Support Engineer Office 365 Premier Support Engineer Office 365 Premier Support Engineer - Microsoft Springfield, MO Work Experience Office 365 Premier Support Engineer Microsoft - Springfield, MO June 2018 to Present Responsible for design and administration of Microsoft Office 365 cloud-based technologies such as Microsoft Office 365. Administration and engineering of Microsoft Office 365 workloads (Exchange Online, SharePoint Online, Skype for Business, Yammer, OneDrive for Business). Responsibilities included Administration and Mastery in the following areas:  Exchange online mail flow, Administration using PowerShell, Azure Information Protection. Hands on experience with migrating exchange server (hybrid, IMAP, staged, cutover) to Office 365. Technical Analyst Dexter Solutions - Springfield, MO February 2018 to June 2018 Bridge the gap between Dexter Solutions help desk services and any onsite needs that might be required at any of the facilities. Great time and project management skills. Superior communication skills aiding in assisting all technical aspects with a precise and understandable resolution. Main job roles assist in managing relationships with technical vendors and resources. Able to manage internal requests and liaison between employees and IT vendors, sometimes on-site. Maintain existing onsite technical resources. Ensure all backups are maintained and verified. Maintain IT physical inventory. IT Senior Analyst City of Kansas City, Kansas City Missouri - Kansas City, KS October 2016 to 2018 IT Senior Analyst for The City of Kansas Missouri reviewing data assets and controlling safety components for all change control components with management of Cisco firewalls and providing secure remote access. Very versatile a go to team person who drives new project implementations answering technical questions, reviewing all solutions to deliver reports to non-technical users and technical users. Implemented Cybersecurity training program pushed it to city employees with an excellent satisfaction rating. Working with and implementing the design of IT services, including their governing IT practices, the associated policies and processes to meet service provider's strategy and facilitate the introduction of Office 365/ Azure services in a way that ensures quality, cost effectiveness and end user satisfaction. Manage internal oracle database applications creating users, defining roles, and creating and terming user accounts. Troubleshoot and maintain multifactor authentication services for all employees who enroll. Use PowerShell daily and define new scripts based on demand. Identify business trends using monitoring programs and reviewing application exploits. Thus overall achievement meeting deliverables that are the appropriate service design to increase performance, consistency of services, and providing better information and decision making. Consistently working with processes, people, and IT products and creating strong partner relationships. System \ Network Engineer The Midland Group - Lawrence, KS April 2016 to October 2016 System Engineer of The Midland Group working with clients maintaining the network service design. Developing technical solutions that meet various business needs and managing it with the aligning the right architectures put in place working with third party application and infrastructures. Presenting to outside customers on solutions that they can get an engaged approach on how to use the product deliverables to make the business successful. Data protection to maintain the integrity, availability and confidentiality in line with HIPAA compliance levels. Establish baselines on systems and traffic activity to recognize inconsistent usage or network abuse. Auditing controls and network policies when data was accessed and by who based on discretionary privilege. Thus creating processes in place for clients to maintain continual service improvement measuring performance to create achievable ways to manage the service deliverables. Network \ Systems Technology Consultant GFI Digital - Kansas City, KS April 2013 to April 2016 Kansas  Network \ Systems Technology Consultant for GFI Digital developing performance plans for system administration. Providing a contact point of business and IT to discuss service level for existing services and future services. Produce and agree Service Level Requirements for new or changed services that define warranty requirements across multiple vendors Cisco, SonicWall, HP, Dell, Netgate, Watchguard, Labtech, VMware, HyperV, Connectwise, TrendMicro, ESET and DELL. Develop and manage internal / external agreements. Review supplier agreements and underpinning contracts with supplier management. Instigate and coordinate service improvement plans. Optimize the management of a company's IT infrastructure and assets. Conduct site surveys assessing antivirus solutions, patch health reports, computer / server hardware, develop metric reports on hard drive performance, memory, network LAN / WAN, CPU. Advised on reports show suspicious malware and cleaned machines network from unwanted threats to the organization. Strong engagement with all clients maintaining service level requirements to come to an agreement to define the operational level agreement for the business demands aligned with service maintenance contracts to be on boarded. Systems Engineer Apexis Consulting - Overland Park, KS January 2013 to May 2013 Technical Manager Develop performance plans for system administration, software/hardware upgrades for clientele in the KC metro area at ten main locations. Implement maintenance plans for information systems peak performance. Creating a business relationship with clients understanding needs and priorities of the business and are informed on the service level management agreement. Work with in house IT staff operating as educator on cutting edge technology solutions Jack Henry Solutions, Core Director, and ADP. Manage projects and work with multiple vendors Jack Henry, LabTech, Connectwise, and ScreenConnect to achieve highest ROI to work with client's needs and manage user trainings / conferences. Work with managed clients to maintain contracts with Microsoft Servers, Exchange, Certificate Authorities, and Cisco. Thus Tailoring IT needs and assessing their business demands on a continuing basis. Systems Engineer HealthMEDX - Ozark, MO April 2012 to December 2012 Systems Engineer for HealthMEDX working with Project Managers to develop the management and coordination application views with the System installation and administration Windows Server 2008R2 / 2012 to maintain IIS application pools to support .NET apps. Manage VMware ESX server environment and research development of new tools and processes. Focus on the business capacity management needs the plans for their future service and IT demands. System Administrator / Security Engineer Jack Henry & Associates - Springfield, MO May 2009 to July 2012 System and Network Security Engineer for Jack Henry and Associates to focus on availability management. Providing IT service and component availability at multiple geographic locations for reactive and proactive approaches. Participate in risk assessment activities understand current and future demand for IT Services to help administer a 24/7/365 production environment supporting IBM, HP, SonicWALL, Cisco equipment and to support the JHA core software products. Work extensively with multiple business units within the parent company as well as the other subsidiaries. Providing evaluation and purchase of new solutions testing VMware / Microsoft solutions and IBM hardware. Disaster recovery developing the vital business functions of recovery processes and procedures. Main objective to align IT security with business security and ensure that the organizations assets, information, data and IT services always matches agreed needs of each business organization. Education B.A.S in Network Management and Design Western Governors University - Salt Lake City, UT February 2011 to May 2012 A.A.S in Computers and Networks Ozarks Technical Community College - Springfield, MO August 2001 to December 2003