Retail Sales Associate Retail Sales Associate Grand Blanc, MI I have a combined 16 years of experience in information technology, technical support, sales and  management. Work Experience Retail Sales Associate Victra - Verizon Wireless Premium Retailer - Clarkston, MI March 2019 to Present • Assist customer in making informed decisions on products and service offered by Verizon Wireless  • Resolve customer concerns with their Verizon account  • Process transfers to other stores and check in inventory Security Advisor Defender Direct - Clarkston, MI March 2018 to January 2019 • Evaluate customers home security vulnerabilities  • Develop and present a personalized essential home security package to customer  • Install, test, and train customer on security devices and procedures Retail Sales Associate AT&T February 2016 to March 2018 • Develop customer experience and meet sales objectives for store.  • Sell all products and services offered by AT&T.  • Meet all sales objectives.  • Handle all administrative aspects of the sale including: completing customer contracts and warranties, pulling products from inventory, accepting customer payments and filing the  completed orders.  • Maintain strong knowledge of all products, accessories, pricing plans, promotions and service  features.  • Maintain knowledge of competitive offers and provide critical market feedback to the store  manager.  • Handle service inquiries from customers.  • Provide efficient, courteous customer service and assist in all aspects of product offerings  and services. Store Operations Associate T-Mobile October 2015 to February 2016 • Process and document returns to T-Mobile return center daily  • Process and document store to store transfer of requested devices when needed  • Weekly inventory count and documentation of Sim cards  • Ensure sales floor reflects current T-mobile promotions, devices, and merchandising  standards Deployment Team Leader North American Bancard June 2005 to August 2015 • Managed and supported a team of four employees.  • Develops and maintains a detailed project schedule which includes administrative tasks  and all sites involved in the project.  • Provided telecommunication with expertise in technical support to merchants and field  agents.  • Accomplished organization goals by accepting ownership for accomplishing new and different requests; exploring opportunities to add value to job accomplishments.  • Responsible for projecting changes and produced updated site based schedule as agreed with production needs.  • Planned meetings to identify assembling, and coordinating requirements; establishing  contacts; developing schedules and assignments.  • Maintained proficiency with POS equipment and software technology.  • Educated employees of procedural changes and technical information. Technical Support Analyst North American Bancard June 2005 to June 2009 Provided expertise in troubleshooting various technical issues including communication,  hardware, and software issues.  • Assisted with reprogramming/downloading/setup of POS devices  • Provided training with terminal equipment to employees and clients. Cable Installation Technician Comcast Cable December 2003 to January 2005 • Install and/or remove converters, upgrades, and downgrades of service.  • Marketed new services to prospective and current customers.  • Demonstrate and explain converter operations to subscribers.  • Analyzed picture quality and acceptability delivered following the installation of cable  services.  • Completes associated paperwork with each work order in a timely manner.  • Installs and removes converters in order to provide customer with upgrades or downgrades  • Performed new connections and non-pay disconnects  • Provides the customer with materials regarding channel line up, use of converter, and company policies as they relate to the customer as well as demonstrates these skills in order  to educate the customer on the use of the equipment and company guidelines.  • Properly operates and maintains installation tools and equipment.  • Ability to use basic cable installation tools and hand tools and perform jobs in any  environment. Senior Technical Specialist Ford Motor Company September 2001 to July 2003 • IT security and business relations  • Desk side support training at various Ford plants  • Disaster recovery  • Subject Matter Expert for major Ford computer application G.I.R.S  • Assist junior analyst with troubleshooting IT Support Technician Ford Motor Company January 2001 to July 2003 Provided expertise in troubleshooting various technical issues including communication,  hardware, and software issues.  • Strategic infrastructure engineering support  • Monitors and controls computers and peripheral data processing equipment.  • Enters commands using computer terminal and manages controls on computer and peripheral equipment.  • Monitors the system for failure or errors and responds by addressing issues or notifying a supervisor.  • Utilized knowledge and professional discretion to achieve goals. Education Graphic Design Art Institute of Troy 2013 to Present A+, Network+, Security+ certification CMU - Work at Home November 2018 to November 2019 Computer/Electronics National Institute of Technology 2000 to 2002 Skills Experience with HTML 5, CSS, and JavaScript (Less than 1 year), Customer Service, Word, Organizational Skills, Stocking, Retail, Sales, Cash Handling, Microsoft Office, Inventory