Expert Enterprise Architect Expert Enterprise Architect Mr. Baker transforms organizations by providing first of their kind enterprise solutions for federal agencies and private institutions. He has been a Trusted Advisor to Senior Executives and Directors throughout his career in the areas of Enterprise Architecture, Growth Strategy, Security Planning, Risk Management, Data Governance, and Service Delivery. Mr. Baker is available for contract opportunities with growth-focused organizations seeking a leader and contributor capable of driving enterprise transformation across their Corporate, IT, and Security Operations. Silver Spring, MD Core Capabilities:  Information Security  Enterprise Architecture  IT and Data Governance  Strategy and Program Execution  Security Architecture Development  Transition Planning and Solution Design  Client Negotiations and Relationship Building    Federal Government Experience:  Department of Veterans Affairs – Office of Information & Technology (VA-OI&T)  Department of Health and Human Services – Food & Drug Administration (FDA)  Department of Health and Human Services – Centers for Medicaid & Medicare Services (CMS)  Department of Treasury – Internal Revenue Service (IRS)  Department of Transportation – Federal Highways Administration (DOT-FHWA)  Department of Commerce – Office of Patent and Trademarks (USPTO)  Department of Homeland Security – Transportation Security Administration (HLS-TSA)  Department of Housing and Urban Development – Multifamily Housing (HUD-MFH)  Department of Energy – Environmental Management (DOE-EM)  Marine Corps Systems Command - Ground Transportation Engineers Systems (MCSC-GTES)  Navy Marine Corps Internet - Information Technology Infrastructure (NMCI-ITI)    Security Clearance:  Public Trust (Current)  Authorized to work in the US for any employer    Knowledge of and Experience with Industry Standards:  EA Frameworks: FEAF, TOGAF, DODAF, GAO EAMMF, NIEM, NIST Risk Mgmt. Framework  Development Standards: ITIL, SDLC, Agile, CMMI, UML, IEPD, NIST SP 800-171, 100, 63, 53, 37, 34, 30  PMI Project Management Lifecycle, NSA Defense in Depth Strategy, FICAM LACS/PACS  Amazon Web Services (AWS) Infrastructure, Platform, and SW Services for Disaster Recovery Solutions  Splunk Enterprise Cybersecurity Analytics, Continuous Diagnostics Monitoring, and Operational Data Fusion    Additional Key Experience:  Mr. Baker has additional key experience that includes defining requirements, solutions, business cases, strategies, and concepts of operations with respect to the following:    • Using Amazon Web Services (AWS) Infrastructure Services in concert with SW tools and capabilities that may be offered using their AWS Cloud Platform and/or AWS Cloud SW Services to provide disaster recovery solutions.    • Using Mobile App-based Cloud SW Services from RunMobile, Mobile Epiphany, GOOD Mobile Device Management, and MICA from the Army Corp of Engineers to provide data collection, analysis, workflow management, onsite disaster assessments, damage surveys, and crisis / emergency management.    • Using Splunk Enterprise to provide Cybersecurity Analytics Tools for Monitoring of Virtual Machines and  Cloud Deployments, Outbound Virtual Desktop Infrastructure Monitoring, Internal Identity Access Management (e.g., User Roles Changes and Unauthorized Access), Continuous Diagnostics Monitoring, Enterprise Security Audit Trails, Threat Forensics, Cybersecurity Data Fusion Center, Secure Accelerated Application Development, and Secure Emergency Preparedness (i.e., Supporting Incident Response, Business Continuity, and Disaster Recovery by preventing disruptions in service availability and/or service performance.) Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Expert Enterprise Architect Glofire, LLC December 2015 to Present \\ Enterprise Transformation Services – Enterprise Architecture, Information Security, and Data Governance    • Develop complex system architectures and analyses, including enterprise-wide  security control assessments, system-of-system designs, implementation plans, organizational assessments, strategic plans, budget projections, concepts of operations, program integration plans, and project execution forecasts.    • Assess and define the technical capabilities and software architectures for supporting mission critical enterprise systems within the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), and how they are being utilized by VA Business, IT, and Security operations.     • Conduct research, define architectures, and present findings regarding the system composition of VA enterprise systems from both a business perspective and a system design perspective to include: users, capabilities, application architectures, cloud services, shared services, microservices, data flows, data architectures, security controls, platforms, infrastructure technologies, and APIs. Highlighting where SOA-based platforms can be leveraged to build better business applications on-demand in response to stakeholder business requirements.    • Provide documented assessments, models, and recommendations regarding FDA application system-related data governance policies/processes, data management capabilities, application datasets, authoritative data sources, relational data, master data, data flows, information exchanges, data architectures, data assets, and data standards.    • Create and facilitate FDA EA-DevOps Integration efforts, and collaborate with DevOps Engineering Staff. Identify full stack solutions, cloud environments, including technology roadmaps, security framework, and confirguration management compliance support. Work with developers, engineers, vendors, federal partners, and government agencies to design system integrations. Support C-level executives in the development of statements of work, budget submissions, program plans, architectures, heatmaps, communications, standards, governance models, and supporting processes.    • Evaluate current and future healthcare operations, and determined how they can be transformed into automated business models and tested to support CMS Innovation Center program strategies aimed at reducing medical costs, increasing stakeholder participation, assessing health-related results, enabling data management, and advancing new payment and service delivery methods.    • Shadow CMS Resuable Framework system development teams, conduct interviews, attend key stakeholder meetings, and develop models to support the business and technical (conceptual, logical, and physical) perspectives of an enterprise system, including how the platform and its’ business applications change over time through change requests and living SLDC documentation. Senior Enterprise Architect / Program Manager Cyrus Management Solutions January 2014 to September 2015 \\ Department of Treasury – IRS Office of Cybersecurity    • Conducted IT infrastructure analysis and integrated NIST Secure Configuration Management Practices to improve the Cybersecurity Enterprise Intake Process. This enhanced the ability of the Cybersecurity PMO to determine security impacts as a member of the Enterprise Change Management Board used to review change requests for platforms, operating systems, applications, and network infrastructure.    • Transformed service delivery within the Office of Cybersecurity based on ITIL IT Service Management by analyzing security capabilities, planning investments, and defining security control solutions.    • Provided solutions for establishing, integrating, and accessing a Cybersecurity Service Desk within the IRS through the use of an Intranet Site, Service Catalog, Enterprise Life Cycle Security Package, and Customer Service Request Process.    • Developed and implemented the Cyber Front Door Program by defining program management plans and concepts of operation for the Cybersecurity Service Desk (i.e., plans for optimizing capabilities, service delivery, interoperability, and service level agreements).    • Secured $90.3 million by developing cybersecurity business cases for operational intelligence, vulnerability management, application security, and organizational risk management.    \\ Department of Transportation - Federal Highway Administration    • Led the development of the FHWA Mobile Strategy for evaluating mobile technologies, defining mobility standards, designing business solutions, selecting reference architectures, and documenting and managing the implementation of multiyear mobile capability roadmaps that solve stated business problems.    • Enabled FHWA Business Lines to secure the business sponsors, IT approvals, funding, and contractor resources required to develop a mobile application for disaster assessments and reporting.    • Conducted IT infrastructure analysis to transition FHWA’s Primary and Alternate Disaster Recovery Sites and their associated IT assets to a new Backup Data Center. Solution Architect / Deputy Project Manager Innovative Management Concepts - Dulles, VA November 2012 to May 2013 U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs - Office of Information & Technology - Architecture, Strategy, and Design (OI&T-ASD Product & Platform Management)    • Managed process to evaluate, classify, and approve software for compliance with VA IT Standards.    • Developed an N-Tier Architecture Assessment for software infrastructure used by VA Project Managers to implement solutions and systems in the VA enterprise.    • Incorporated this N-Tier Architecture Assessment within guidance and processes for VA EA Compliance, Project Milestone Reviews, Architecture Evaluation Boards, and System Engineering Design. Lead Enterprise Architect for IT, Security, and HR SRA International, Inc - Fairfax, VA December 2007 to October 2012 U.S. Department of Veteran's Affairs - OI&T-ASD Enterprise Architecture    • Managed the creation of the current state and desired future state of mission critical and non-critical business operations, data repositories, application systems, information exchanges, technical infrastructure, and emerging technologies (e.g., Mobile, Cloud, and SOA) for IT, Security, and HR operations.    • Utilized EA frameworks and techniques (FEAF /TOGAF/ DODAF 2.0/ Zachman) to develop 3-5 year transformation plans, enterprise architectures, solution architectures, system architectures, market analyses, software product evaluations, cost-benefit analyses, budget priorities, funding and staffing requests, and business cases for investments on behalf of VA Executives and Directors to support their agency strategic plans, business strategies, and program portfolios.    • Developed enterprise architectures programs using multiple iterations of 30-90 day projects over 5 years with 5-30 person cross functional matrix teams to establish and mature the first-ever VA Enterprise IT & Security Architecture Program (VA-ITSA) and first-ever VA Enterprise Human Resources Segment Program (VA-EHRS). This supported enterprise-wide VA EA, IT, Security, and HR operations including VA business operations for Veterans Health, Benefits, National Cemeteries, and Department of Defense Interoperability.    • Conducted systems design to define technical requirements, solutions, and risks for the following: VA EPACS Integration & VLAN Isolation Architecture; Enterprise-wide HR Systems Consolidation & Integration; VA IAM, PACS & HR Collaboration for Systems Integration; HR Academy Cloud Services; Health Risk Assessment Cloud Security; VA EA Systems Inventory; VLER Data Taxonomies & Information Exchange Scenarios; VADIR Application Security Architecture Framework; VA Enterprise IT & Security Architecture Capabilities Inventory; VA Enterprise IT & Security Architecture – Data Architecture Repository for Application Systems; VA Mission Critical Business Impact Analysis for Operations, Data, and Systems to support Business Continuity Operations; VA Physical IT Infrastructure Assessment & Roadmap identifying Network Endpoint Dependencies for Network Security Operations, and VA Enterprise IT & Security Architecture – Information Management Strategy, Data Stewards, Concept/Logical Data Architecture, Authoritative Data Sources, and Trusted Information Infrastructure Roadmap based on the IBM Information Agenda Strategy.    • Established working relationships at all levels (SES to GS-12s) and promoted architecture development/ integration across the following VA organizations: Architecture, Strategy & Design (ASD), Risk Management, Incident Response, Field Security Services, Cyber Security, Business Continuity, Network Security Operations, Privacy & Records Management, IT Workforce Training, Product Development, Enterprise Service Delivery & Engineering, Enterprise Risk Management, Human Resources Information Services, Financial Services Coordination, OSP - Operations, Security & Preparedness, and IT & Security Business Liaisons for Veterans Health, Benefits, and National Cemetaries. Senior Enterprise Security Architect Project Performance Corporation (PPC) - McLean, VA June 2007 to November 2007 U.S. Department of Commerce - Office of Patent and Trademarks    • Developed and managed USPTO’s first Enterprise Security Architecture framework based on the FEA Security & Privacy Profile and security and privacy-related OMB regulations, NIST standards, and DHS strategies.    • Populated the Enterprise Security Architecture using Troux METIS to define the security and privacy components of the Segment Architecture for the Patent File Wrapper Automated Information System (PFW).    • Leveraged the Enterprise Security Architecture to aid PFW systems development efforts, and determine a high-level strategy to secure PFW.    • The PFW Security Strategy outlined the Security tasks in the SDLC for PFW that would be needed to align Security Assessment Activities, reuse Enterprise Security Capabilities, identify Security and Privacy Gaps, and define Solution & Infrastructure Architecture Security Requirements. Enterprise Solution Architect Network Specialty Group, Inc. - Gaithersburg, MD July 2006 to June 2007 \\ U.S. Department of Homeland Security - Transportation Security Administration    • Created modernization plans for large scale systems, databases, and networks. This includes preparation of the standard documentation for a multi-tier architectural model.    • Coordinated work performed by subject matter experts, IT managers, and other computer specialists in the modeling and improvement of the TSA Information Technology Environment. This includes developing multitier architectural models using MEGA EA Modeling Tools to capture TSA enterprise strategies, operations, and technologies.    • Performed work as a MEGA System Administrator to manage the MEGA EA Data Repositories.    \\ Capability Maturity Model Integration - Visual Studio Team Suite (CMMI-VSTS) Initiative    • Technical Lead within NSGI’s first CMMI Engineering Process Group determining business and technical solutions to support performance of CMMI Level 2 & Level 3 Initiation & Inspection Preparation for the CMMI Rating Process.    • Advised senior management and provided technical direction to project teams to establish NSGI’s first  Enterprise Project Management System, Enterprise Project Portfolio Reporting System, Enterprise Document Management System, and Enterprise Software Development Configuration Management System.    • Led system administrators in carrying out the installation and customization of the underlying Corporate System Applications: MS Project, MS Excel, MS SQL Server, MS SharePoint, and MS Visual Studio Team Suite with the Team Explorer & Foundation Server. Enterprise Architecture Lead Analyst Advanced Technology Systems - Tysons Corner, VA October 2004 to March 2006 U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development – Multifamily Housing (HUD-MFH)    • Developed and implemented Multifamily Housing’s first Baseline Architecture, Target Architecture, and Architecture Management Strategy to support the HUD EA Practice.    • Determined business/technical requirements, communication plans, business cases, change management plans, implementation plans, and transition plans to upgrade MFH Real Estate Management Systems.    • Defined organizational units, programs, projects, business processes, application systems, and SW/HW technologies to establish architecture management, baseline architectures, target architectures, and transition architectures for new capabilities. Enterprise Architecture Analyst E-Management Consulting Services – E-Gov Services - Washington, DC June 2004 to August 2004 U.S. Department of Energy – Environmental Management (DOE-EM)    • Examined enterprise architecture information for compliance with federal enterprise architecture legislation.    • Developed enterprise architecture repository of federal and state government enterprise architecture implementations to establish enterprise architecture best practices & standards. Strategic Management Consultant APJ Network Solutions - Realty Services - Washington, DC June 2003 to May 2004 Real Estate Investment and Property Management    • Performed requirements analysis, process execution and evaluation, and long range planning to define business operations.    • Conducted market analysis, cost comparisons, pricing, project planning, business analysis, systems analysis, and solution implementation to manage technical operations.    • Managed communications, negotiations, and risks to coordinate renovation and property management projects.    • Managed a real estate portfolio valued over $2.5 million. Business Systems Analyst Jacobs Engineering – Advanced Systems Group - Quantico, VA June 2001 to May 2003 \\ U.S. Marine Corps Systems Command - Ground Transportation & Engineer Systems    • Planned IT Resources Transition Strategy with senior management for 55 end-users reporting IT concerns to CIO of MCSC.    • Identified End-User and Environment Requirements to consolidate software/hardware configurations for NMCI network.    • Conducted requirement analysis and developed requirements for web interfaces and web content to support GTES web development projects.    \\ U.S. Navy Marine Corps Internet / Information Technology Infrastructure (NMCI/ITI)    • Produced enterprise architecture, process, systems, network, and use case models to document acquisition operations.    • Performed technical, financial, and analytical assessments to ensure the quality and content of technical products.    • Evaluated knowledge, collaboration, workflow, and document management practices and software tools. Systems Administrator Howard University (Full-Time Employment) - Washington, DC June 1999 to May 2001 \\ Office of the Secretary    • Translated business requirements into technical specifications as an IT Facilitator between management and technicians.    • Designed database schemas, entity relationships, entities, and attributes and data models with Entity Relationship Diagrams.    • Provided on-call/on-site technical support and training with MS Windows/Office 2000 for 5 executive-level departments within the Office of the Secretary.    \\ Information Lab and Technology Center  • Setup Howard's first Information Lab and Technology Center, a facility dedicated to advanced computing services.    • Managed 300 networks nodes consisting of 250 systems, 5 operating systems, 7 platforms, and 20 printers.    • Led implementation teams configuring 300 switch ports, network sockets, and Cat 5 cable runs. Provided desktop support for a hybrid O/S environment: Apple, Windows 98/NT 4.0/2000, UNIX [Linux, Solaris, and Irix].    \\ Founders Library - Information Systems and Multimedia Services (ISMS)    • Setup Howard's first IT facilities within the Founders Library System dedicated to Information System and Multimedia Services.    • Maintained 5 Local Area Network sites supporting 385 Windows 95/98/NT 4.0 workstations.    • Handled IT administration documenting change management, systems configuration, and project management tasks.    • Managed and controlled inventory accounting for IT Shipments, PCs, Software Applications, Peripherals, Spare-Parts, and Technical Manuals. Education M.S. in Computer Systems Management University of Maryland University College 2009 B.S. in Information Systems Howard University 2002 Skills Togaf, Solution Architect, Salesforce, SOA Certifications/Licenses CISSP (Computer Information Systems Security Professional) October 2011 to September 2020 Additional Information \\ TRAINING    • Strategic Management of Technology and Innovation Course, University of Maryland, fall 2009  • Economic and Financial Analysis Course, University of Maryland, fall 2009  • Data Warehouse Technologies Course, University of Maryland, spring 2008  • Database Mining Course, University of Maryland, spring 2008  • Database Security Course, University of Maryland, fall 2007  • Relational Database Systems Course, University of Maryland, summer 2007  • Program and Project Management Course, University of Maryland, spring 2007  • Visual Data/ Document Management, Morgan State University - U.S. Army Internship, fall 1998  • MS Windows PC Lab - Help Desk Support, Morgan State University, fall 1997 - spring 1998