Principal Enterprise Cybersecurity Security Architect Principal Enterprise Cybersecurity <span class="hl">Security</span> Architect Principal Enterprise Cybersecurity Security Architect - Bioreference Laboratories inc Waldwick, NJ Highly Skilled IT Professional With Over 20 Years IT Systems Experience, Specializing In Compliance, Data Security, And Network Architecture, Design, And Administration. Work Experience Principal Enterprise Cybersecurity Security Architect Bioreference Laboratories inc 2017 to Present Principal Enterprise VULNERABILITY Security Architect  Cybersecurity Security Department  Responsible for Hiring and Supervising Security Related Personnel, Projects, and Systems Along With Preparing Business Plans, Budgets and Projects Including: Vulnerability Scans, Penetration Tests, Work with QSA & ASV To Obtain PCI Attestation. Currently leading effort to document and implement stands based on Center for Internet Security(CIS) standards for new server and desktop builds and desktop operating systems.  • Partner VP of Infrastructure, EVP FINANCE and Director of Networking on plan to make internal flat network PCI compliant.  • Participate In Risk Assessment, Deployed DLP (Via Trendmicro Products), Varonis, Firemon, Red-Seal, Log Rhythm SIEM.  • Analyze Complex IT And Security Problems Regarding All Security Architectural, Engineering, Operations And Business Systems Domains  • Assist CISO and VP, Cybersecurity With Risk Assessments, Designing, Developing, and Testing Enterprise Wide Security  • Develop Training Material Security Alerts and Advisories and systems solutions and services.  • Founded Infrastructure Technology Security (ITS) Department  • Prepared 2018 department budget ($1.3M)  • Drafted departments charter and RACI, and contributing to effort to revise all IT policies  • Escalation point for all security related projects.  • Introduce Web Application Firewall (WAF) into environment.  • Leading Security related effort to migrate BioReferences servers to Azure.  • Contracted and assisted in conducting 2018 Rik Assessment.  • Prepared department objects for 2018 with VP of Infrastructure Technology.  • Insource External and Internal Vulnerability Scanning (saving $100,000 a year)  • Working with VP of Infrastructure on plan to assess GDPR readiness of company.  • Leading new effort to update all IT policies to be ISO 27002:2013 and NIST compliant  Bioreference Laboratories Inc., Elmwood Park, NJ 2016 - Present Bioreference Laboratories inc - Elmwood Park, NJ 2016 to Present Lead Enterprise Security Engineer Bioreference Laboratories inc 2016 to 2017 Served As The Escalation Point For More Junior Security Engineers, Security Operations, IT And Development Staff For All Matters Regarding Security, Risk, Governance, Security Incidents, Security Cases And Security Events And Associated Technology.  • Assist With Security And Service Architects With Designing (Baking) Security Into Company Solutions And Services.  • Mentor To The Security Engineering Team As Well As The Greater IT Team At Large As Required Or Requested.  • Data Center Support For Firewall, Vpns, Routers, And Switches.  • Manage Day To Day Activities For Projects Involving Computer Forensics, Information Security Or Rapid Response To All Data Breach Matters (Physical And/Or Electronic)  • Develop And Implement Policies Related To Secure And Physical Security Facilities, Hardware, Software, And Configuration For Applications And Network Elements.  • Investigate Security Events And Security Incidents And Prepare Summary Documentation For Executive Management, CIO, CISO And Chief Compliance And Legal Officers.  • Create, Document, And Share Technical Roadmaps To Staff And Management To Assist In The Support, Compliance And Risk Management Of Network, Software And Business Needs Throughout The Company.  • Lead Effort To Move All Internal Applications From Http And Telnet To Https And Ssh.  • Consolidated Certificate Management From Multiple Vendor Down To One Vendor.  • Manages Projects And Project Teams For Continued Attainment Of Business Goals.  • Worked With CISO On Preforming And Prepairing 2016 Risk Assesments  • Standarded And Updated All IT Policies To Be NIST Based. Senior IT Specialist IBM 2011 to 2016 IBM - Hopewell Junction, NY 2005 to 2016 IT Architect IBM 2005 to 2011 Supervised related security personnel, projects, and systems, including Anti-Virus/URL filtering/SPAM and SMTP Filtering and routing of mail, IOS, VMWare, Windows NT, W2K, W2K3 and W2K8 on a daily basis.  • Subject matter expert for IBM's outsourcing group for Trendmicro, Symantec SEP and McAfee products. Six Sigma and IBM Global Delivery Frame (GDF) focal.  • Prepare or review and approve re-architecting of solutions for global accounts to map them into IBM's Support framework and create customized solutions when required to meet customers' business model.  • Review and approve root cause analysis reports before they are sent to clients.  • Serviced security related systems, including Anti-Virus, IOS, VMWare, Windows NT, W2K, W2K3 and W2K8 on a daily basis.  • Six Sigma and IBM Global Delivery Frame (GDF) focal for Dispatcher and Quantity Assurance roles.  • Developed IBM's Desktop Procedures as well as Question and Answer documentation for Trendmicro products support.  • Represented IBM and clients as a member of Trendmicro's Advisory Board.  • Represented IBM Malware Team at weekly and monthly meetings to discuss any open issues relating to malware teams and local account teams. Redesigned and led engineering efforts as well as conducted audits for several large IBM clients.  • Worked with Client and the IBM Intel group to update the different basic builds for each role a server will be filling and setup process for accurate patching and reporting for desktops and servers.  • Rebuilt the central management console for the Anti-Virus/Spyware/Spam system and worked with the SQL group to migrate it to a SQL server.  • Managed SMTP mail flow at accounts and removed the risk of account outsourcing this service to a non- IBM Team.  • Conducted root cause analyses of Clients' blacklisting issues, traced source(s) and resolved issues with website team's assistance.  • Trained local staff on use and support of configuration management software.  • Worked with IBM SOC, Local account team members and Client to coordinate and address security related issues at a client site such as Website defacements, SQL injection attacks, Client machines infected with Malware.  • Worked with external auditors on Sarbanes-Oxley audits and generated any requested documentation required.  • Conducted remote support for any issues relating to the client such as product upgrades, resolving issues and collecting logs and managing all architecture issues relating to Anti-virus or SPAM email filtering.  • Worked with IBM Security Operations Center (SOC), Local account team members and Client to coordinate and address security related issues at a client site such as Website defacements, SQL injection attacks, Client's machines infected with Malware. Lead Security Analyst Matsushita/Panasonic Corporation of America 2001 to 2005 Matsushita/Panasonic Corporation of America - Secaucus, NJ 1999 to 2005 Lead Network Engineer Matsushita/Panasonic Corporation of America 1999 to 2001 Supervised security related systems, including Anti-Virus, IOS, Windows NT, W2K, and W2K3 on a daily basis. Developed Panasonic's Windows NT and W2K/W2K3 security policies.  • Oversaw Panasonic's documented security policy, making updates as needed. Imitated, designed, built and implemented a unified security system for Panasonic nationwide covering IDS, Anti-Virus, Patch and configuration management across municipal platforms.  • Worked with IDS/IPS group to plan where on LAN/WAN to deploy sensors.  • Managed SMTP mail flow for most of Panasonic in the America's. Rebuilt and managed Panasonic's Anti-Malware and SMTP mail system.  • Conducted audits for different system and process at Panasonic in the America such as removal of defunct ACF ID's on Mainframe and defunct Windows accounts and policy compliancy.  • Provided root cause analysis for hacking issues such as Website defacements, web form high jacking, Firewall rule issues and SQL code injection  • Prepared and distributed all advisories for Panasonic IT groups in the America on any significant threats and new operating system patches for Linux and Windows and give them a rating based on Panasonic environment.  • Represented Panasonic Enterprise Security Organization at global meetings.  • Coordinated and planned security awareness fairs each quarter for Panasonic employees.  • Conducted security related presentations and demonstrated new technologies at Panasonic internal IT conferences.  • Was the face of Panasonic's Anti-Virus/SPAM systems and grew the project from 10 Panasonic companies to 52 companies in the 4 years I ran it and made it one of the most profitable and popular internal IT initiatives at Panasonic.  • Outlined and initiated a plan to Panasonic IT group in Japan to deploy Level 2 Malware filtering devices at Wan hub sites worldwide, virtually eliminated the spread of Malware across the Panasonic WAN overnight.  • Initiated a project to scan the Panasonic Lan/Wans monthly in the America's to find unauthorized Internet/WAN access points and wireless points by utilizing the Enterprise Configuration Management system and custom reports I created.  • Conducted internal Audits to verify proper control were in place and policies were being adhered to. Work with external auditors on IT security    INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY/NETWORKING EXPERIENCE Senior Technical Engineer Burmah Castrol Holdings Inc., LP - Wayne, NJ 1997 to 1999 Senior MIS Manager Nextel Communications Inc - Rutherford, NJ 1996 to 1997 MIS Manager Bauer Publishing Co., LP - Englewood Cliffs, NJ 1992 to 1996 Created cross-platform, internet/intranet firewall system using CheckPoint Security Systems, StoneBeat and Gauntlet. Designed data warehousing project to poll and cross-reference billing and marketing information from legacy systems. Implemented changes in network architecture to improve transaction-processing times for billing and order-fulfillment. Improved operations by upgrading key systems and designing a new database reporting application in Lotus Notes. Designed build-out of company wide Area Network (WAN) through the installation of Cisco Routers.    Developed architecture of IT system to monitor Windows NT and Lotus Notes Servers and automatically respond to system failures. Designed Windows NT interface to migrate data from a Novell-based billing system to a UNIX data warehouse. Created environment in Lotus Notes and Windows NT to test new applications for stability before deployment. Completed upgrade of primary production server to Lotus Notes 4.5x and Windows NT 4.0. Introduced Hub architecture and system redundancy to Lotus Notes Network. Managed staff of ten including helpdesk personnel and network and server engineers. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science and International Business St. Thomas Aquinas College - Sparkill, NY Skills Solution Architect