Consultant Consultant Currently Looking for the Right Company Houston, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Consultant NinjitsuCSC - Self Employed - Houston, TX May 2019 to Present ·       Provided Independent consulting to private client base  ·       VMWare, Network, WiFi, Server, DesktopOS, Application, Hardware Installation and Configurations.  ·       Attend Monthly InfraGard Meeting / Presentation  ·       Attend Monthly DC713 Meeting / Cyber Security Discussions IT Consultant PBK Architects - Houston, TX May 2019 to May 2019 Provided Desktop Support Service to reduce outstanding ticket count.  Help Install several Desktops and Laptops and troubleshot Adobe Suite Product issues. Consultant NinjitsuCSC - Self Employed - Houston, TX September 2018 to May 2019 ·       Provided Independent consulting to private client base  ·       VMWare, Network, WiFi, Server, DesktopOS, Application, Hardware Installation and Configurations  ·       Attend Monthly InfraGard Meeting / Presentation  ·       Attend Monthly DC713 Meeting / Cyber Security Discussions Cyber Security Specialist McDermott International - Houston, TX May 2018 to September 2018 Application Support for Tenable Nessus Security Center 5.4.5 and Qualys Security and Compliance Suite.    ·       Work with CrowdStrike Red Team Reports to tighten our vulnerabilities.  ·       Assisted with Splunk Account Creation and API configuration.  ·       Assisted with ISO 27001 Standards.  ·       Supported internal audits, control reviews, risk assessments, and reporting as required  ·       Tracked and managed action plans for the resolution of issues identified during assessments and audits  ·       Advocated and actively promoted the success of the ISO certification program  ·       Assisted reporting of compliance gaps  ·       Assisted in the implementation of action plans and provides compliance support to projects to improve performance of IT controls  ·       Worked with other departments within IT to obtain the required evidence for SOX controls  ·       Performed analysis on SOX control evidence to ensure all controls have been performed according to the requirements  ·       Worked with internal auditors to provide evidence of compliance  ·       Prioritized vulnerabilities based on the risk to company information systems and data  ·       Assessed, analyzed, and managed cyber risks  ·       Followed up on remediation activities to ensure identified risks are mitigated  ·       Assisted with the development of security awareness communications  ·       Assisted with the development, improvement, periodic review, and updating of cyber security policies, standards, and procedures    Application Support for CyberArk Enterprise Password Vault.   1yr Privileged Access Account Management (PAM) I became the Secondary by default because the Primary Analyst wanted to offset this task. Troubleshoot issues with CyberArk Engineers for business continuity.  Work with Safes to extract encrypted passwords from critical systems.  Configured and Deployed environments from Physical to Virtual and upgraded software.    CyberArk Administration training course on July 23.2018    ·       Grant privileges to users only for systems on which they are authorized.  ·       Grant access only when it’s needed and revoke access when the need expires. VIRTUALIZATION ENGINEER McDermott International - Houston, TX June 2014 to May 2018 Supporting a vast Windows Server 2016 R2 enterprise environment which included the documentation, monitoring, and troubleshooting of the hybrid windows server environment on primary Nutanix Hyperconverged.   Supporting VMware VCenter 6.5 including Storage VMotion, High Availability and Fault Tolerance.  Supporting 120+ ESXi hosts and 800 guest servers on.    Windows Server 2016 training course on 12.11.2017  VMWare 5.5 training course on 11.03.2014    ·      Application Support for ABS – NS5  ·      Primary Marine Vessel SME Application Administrator  ·       Coding, Powershell Scripting  ·      Server Support for the following Cyber Security Appliances  ·      CyberArk - v.7.2 to v.9.8 Upgrade - Privileged Account Security System  ·      CyberArk - DNA  ·      Rights Management Service - Content Protection - POC  ·      Varonis - DatAdvantage – Data Protection and File Analysis - POC  ·      Varonis - DatAlert – User Behavior Analytics - POC  ·      Microsoft – Advanced Threat Analytics - POC  ·      EMC - RSA Authentication Manager 8.1   ·      BMC - Atrium Discovery & Dependency Mapping  ·      McAfee Server Management Patching  ·       Install, configure, and manage VMware vSphere environment: vCenter, ESXi hypervisor on new hosts, virtual machines, datastore creation and maintenance.  ·       Provide troubleshooting support for incident and problem resolution of the virtualization Infrastructure.  ·       Migrate VM’s from one datacenter to another using a variety of methods  ·       Manage distributed virtual switches  ·       Implement best operational practices for VMware virtualization environment and automate where applicable.  ·       Monitor health, performance, and optimization of virtualized architecture.  ·       Respond to and resolve incident tickets for Virtualization issues.  ·       Provide after-hour support and on-call support as required.  ·      Follow policies and procedures for change, incident, and problem management. IT CONSULTANT National Oilwell Varco - Houston, TX February 2014 to June 2014 Global Disk Encryption Project to update 27,000 windows 7 enterprise nodes with BitLocker using scripted batching and verification with Active Directory. With a team of 20 consultants.   APP-V CONSULTANT Northrop Grumman Corporation - Houston, TX August 2013 to August 2013 • Preparation Installation and configuration of Microsoft Application Sequencing Software  • Installation of a full Application Virtualization (App-V) infrastructure using the Windows 7 Operating System  • Preparation of Sequencing Workstations (physical and/or virtual machine)  • Delivery of sequenced applications to 10 computers in the test environment  • Delivery of applications to Windows 7 test environment clients running App-V Client  • Enabled metering of at least two App-V applications  • Integration of App-V with enterprise Microsoft System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM) environment. VMWARE DESIGN CONSULTANT Integrated Electrical Services - Houston, TX May 2013 to August 2013 • Design the VMWare 5.1 Environment on Private Cloud In.  • Plan the VMWare ESXi 5.0 to 5.1 project.  • Installed VCenter 5.1 on Windows Server 2012 w/ MS SQL 2008 Database  • Implement changes to increase ROI.  • Create Security Policies to meet SOX compliances.  • Streamline the Symantec BackupExec 10.0Environment reducing the Backup Time 50%  • Reduce Physical Datacenter and reclaimed $15,000/yr cost of operation.  • Negotiated 50% discount with Vendors on new memory for production servers.  • Monitored Enterprise systems for performance and capacity to maintain stability with uninterrupted operation.  • Maintained High Availability SLA of 99.9% throughout the Upgrade Project.  • Define problem issues, collect data, establish facts and draw valid conclusions.  • Project Leadership and Project Reporting with MS SharePoint and Project 2012  • VMWare Software License Administration  • Political Awareness of Business Email and Communication Etiquette.  • Dell Frameless EqualLogic PS6500 SATAStorage Firmware upgrade  • Dell MX1000E Blade Chassic w/M710 HD Blade Servers CONSULTANT NinjitsuCSC - Houston, TX July 2012 to May 2013 • Using the open source framework Backtrack 5r3 tested client's security using several toolsets. Including Maltego, and Social Engineering Set for Data Mining.  • Provided Independent consulting to private client base  • VMWare, Network, WiFi, Server, DesktopOS,Application, Hardware Installation and Configurations. SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR Service Corporation International - Houston, TX July 2011 to July 2012 DATA CENTER ADMINISTRATOR Service Corporation International - Houston, TX January 2008 to July 2011 EXECUTIVE DESKTOP SUPPORT ANALYST Service Corporation International - Houston, TX December 2006 to January 2008 • Supported a vast Windows Server 2008 R2 enterprise environment which included the documentation, monitoring, and troubleshooting of the windows server environment, VMWare support issues, Exchange 2007 messaging related administration, and general isolated application support.  • Supported VMware VCenter 4.0 including Storage VMotion, High Availability and Fault Tolerance.  • Managed VM backups through VRanger Pro 5.0 for 28 ESXi hosts and 600 guest servers.  • Hot Cloned P2V servers with vCenter Converter in accordance with the company's core services virtualization initiatives.  • Assisted with DMZ server virtualization and migration with Veeam Fast SCP 3.0.  • Upgraded and patched ESX Hosts from 3.5 to 4.1 and ESX 4.1 to ESXi 4.1  • Performed day-to-day Exchange 2007 messaging responsibilities within an enterprise environment including 4 SMTP filters, 6 Exchange servers, and 26000 mailboxes, resources, and conference rooms.  • Deployed both physical and virtual Servers and Desktops regularly for Production, Development and Testing Environments.  • Utilized Windows Powershell for Exchange and Directory services when necessary to conduct routine tasks and present deep level reports of the messaging environment based on various criteria.  • Supported Server 2008 Active Directory environment with 2 domains and 26000 users.  • Provided support as Administrator of the Data Center with 140 Physical and 600 Virtual Servers on 28 ESXi hosts.  • Participated in regular On-Call rotations in support of Server 2008 AD, Exchange 2007, SAN, VMWare, and e-Commerce environments.  • Managed the Symantec VERITAS NetBackup Enterprise Tape Backup Software as well as management of the vendor relationship for offsite storage of physical tapes. IT CONSULTANT Baker Hughes Incorporated - Houston, TX June 2006 to December 2006 • Performed Active Directory account administration, and group policy changes.  • Acted as first line of defense for issue resolution regarding networking, Server outages, and Messaging related issues with escalation to specific tiered support groups when necessary.  • Remote Desktop Support for 7 divisions of thecompany's Latin American countries EXECUTIVE DESKTOP SUPPORT ANALYST Service Corporation International - Houston, TX May 1999 to June 2006 • Performed new PC refresh, procurement, inventory in accordance with company refresh policies regarding hardware and OS.  • Acted as the first line of defense for issue resolution regarding networking, Server outages, and Messaging related issues with escalation to specific tiered support groups when necessary.    • Performed testing of network cabling, hubs, routers, and switches when requested by network groups to provide overflow support.  • Performed outage break fix and installation of desktops, laptops, scanners, printers, PDAs, and plotters. Provided Blackberry Wireless desktop integration and support for BES 4 server environment.    TECHNOLOGY  Prototyping: Visio, Excel, Paper Prototyping  Environment: Client / Server, Outlook, VMWARE vSphere 4, VMWARE ESX and ESXi, VMWARE Workstation, Exchange 2007, Active Directory 2008, Windows Powershell6.0  Knowledge Management: SharePoint 2010, Remedy, Heat  OS & Productivity: Windows XP, 7, 2003, 2008, 2012, 2016 MS Office Education Computer Electronics Engineering I.T.T. Technical Institute 1993 to 1996 Computer Science University of Texas Rio Grande Valley 1990 to 1991 Skills Cyber Security (2 years), VMware (10+ years), Infrastructure Support (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH) April 2018 to April 2021 Certified Security Analyst August 2012 to August 2015 Groups InfraGard May 2018 to Present DC713 April 2018 to Present Meeting / Cyber Security Discussions