Computer Security Specialist II Computer <span class="hl">Security</span> Specialist II Computer Security Specialist II - Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services/HHS Owings Mills, MD Experienced Systems Administrator currently seeking an Information Systems position, where I am able to utilize my computer security skills and office training to enhance company objectives and goals. Experience with computer hardware, operating systems and platforms, Desktop, networking and Active Directory; System monitoring tools experience, Citrix Presentation Server/XenApp, Windows 7/8) BigFix Tivoli Storage (EMC Data Domain, EMC Networker, Symantec Backup, Tape Backup)Virtual Technology (VMWare, Citrix) Mobile Technology (Blackberry, iPhone and Samsung Galaxy, laptops, tablet/iPad, Blackberry BES, Air Watch)Telephony (Desktop & Conference Room Analog, Digital, VoIP systems and solutions) Cisco Webex, Messaging (MS Exchange, Outlook)Administration (Active Directory, Microsoft System Center, RSA, Ticketing (Heat Ticketing, Remedy)PUTTY, PaloAlto. Work Experience Computer Security Specialist II Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services/HHS December 2016 to Present Firewall Team) NetBackup Systems Administrator (Storage team)    • Use the NetBackup Administration Console, Web Interface, and OpsCenter.  • Configure and manage basic disk storage units and storage unit groups.  • Configure file system backup policies and schedules.  • Perform manual backups and user-directed backups.  • Restore files using the Java or Windows BAR interface and OpsCenter Operational Restore.  • Monitor NetBackup backup and restore jobs and perform basic troubleshooting and information-gathering steps related to failing jobs.  • Configure, run, and manage virtual machine backups using VMware. •  • Recover virtual machines, including using VMware Instant Recovery.  • Created documentation for NetBackup legacy and new environment.  • Blocking URLS and IP's Using Putty, Palo Alto, Cisco and Guest Wireless for Leidos and CMS Baltimore Data Center Firewalls.  • Providing RSA tokens to Leidos employees and Subcontractors.  • Managing the RSA Authentication Manager Database and common configurations, including RSA Authentication Agent configurations.  • Supporting RSA SecurID users through troubleshooting specific high-level access issues.  • Adding servers to the RSA console and ensure the IP resolves successfully.  • Trouble shooting with users, VPN connections and profiles.  • Assigning proper VPN profiles and RSA tokens to users, upon receiving service desk tickets. Assistant IT Trainer and Assistant Desktop Support USDOJ March 2011 to December 2016 team lead., Service Desk  Started as: Accounts Management  Department of Justice, OJP    ? Enabled users to log on to computers and domains with an identity that the domain can authenticate. Authorized or denied access to domain resources, assigned user rights and access control permissions to domain users as necessary.  ? Added users and computers to the appropriate groups. Set Logon Hours, managed certificates. Reset passwords. Managed distribution groups and security groups.  ? Train users on MS Office products 2013/365, Cisco Jabber, Virtual Desktop Infrastructure all other software provided by vendors.  ? Used remote assistance to assist users, Used Administer Microsoft Exchange, Active Directory, Perform installation and configuration printers and other related network assets.  ? Diagnose and resolve network connectivity interruptions including Spyware/malware infections, faulty hardware, and configuration issues.  ? Performed monthly maintenance and with the Network Operating Center, using latest updates and patches, to ensure network compliance. Remediation of network vulnerabilities.  ? Managed Virtual machines on different servers, put machines in maintenance mode, repaired, added deleted software.  ? Used Citrix desktop director to maintain virtual machines as well. Proficient in XenDesktop and XenApps. Monitored environment, troubleshoot issues before they become system-critical, and perform support tasks for end users.  ? Recreated users citrix profiles if there where problems, we would delete and do a rebuild and so store old profiles in another folder (renamed).  ? Handles day-to-day operations of a group of desktop employees.  ? May direct and distribute work each day by checking queue of tickets and assigning the incidents and/or moves/changes to the relevant Team members.  ? Strategizes on how to staff the team (i.e. assigning team members to specific floors or locations based on level, skills and number of units to cover) and ensuring backlogs of service requests are filled in a timely manner.  ? Active participant in monthly maintenance on workstations and servers patching.  ? Establish and maintain network user accounts, permissions using e-Trust Admin and active directory  ? Maintaining a consistent Citrix virtual desktop environment using Citrix Xen Server/ Citrix presentation server.  ? Create new user RSA accounts and assign new RSA key fobs, reset RSA Pins and synchronized RSA key Fobs using RSA Authentication Manager.  ? Image telework laptops and install new operation systems and software using deployment server.  ? Configure government furnished equipment for connectivity to Citrix using Symantec Endpoint encryption  ? Troubleshoot customer software issues remotely using SMS Remote control, SCCM Remote Tools and Windows Remote Assistance.  ? Perform the following using Active Directory and CA Tools Provision Manager: Created, disabled, managed users' (new, current and departed) accounts, groups, OUs, ACLs and Exchange accounts, reset users network logins, deleted and added new and current machines back to the domain and to their respective OU, managed access to various group memberships, network shares and resources, moved user account and computers to various containers and OU.  ? Troubleshooting of Computer Hardware issues and ranging from PCs, Printers, Network Printers, Laptops, Docking Stations and VTC conferencing equipment.  ? Updating Hardware inventory including, locating and preparing broken or outdated hardware for surplus to the vendor or for hardware wipe out.  ? Support users in the areas of email, directory & network services, and Windows desktop applications; knowledgeable in Adobe and SharePoint 2013.  ? Responsible for provisioning accounts using Etrust management-CAtools and Active Directory. Senior Service Desk Technician/VPN Support Associate Operations Analyst General Dynamics - Alexandria, VA July 2009 to March 2011 US Patent and Trademark Office  ? Supported 20,000+ USPTO employees by responding to telephone calls for service and support from customer employees and contractors.  ? Telephonic Information Technology support to all customers, receiving calls, troubleshooting, and triage of Remedy trouble tickets, changing and reset passwords.  ? Provided software application assistance and installation, resolving problems within 30 minutes or escalate to other support entities.  ? Performed remote control to the desktop to assist the end-user.  ? Generated reports and metrics for management, maintained the integrity of the source tables in the Service  ? Provided technical and configuration support for microcomputer hardware, networks, and office automation for large user community via the telephone or e-mail, as appropriate. Providing analysis and recommendations for information technology requirements.  ? Trained new employees on Tier 1 help desk procedures Information Systems Specialist 374th Force Support Human Resources IT Yokota AB July 2006 to November 2006 Responsible for electronic data processing and management of information systems for support of over 400 users of the 374th Force Support Squadron Information Systems Support office utilizing over 50 systems in over 23 locations on and off Yokota AB.  ? Responsible for coordinating planning, developing, and implementing changes for all Force Support Squadron computer systems, both hardware and software and ensuring proper connectivity for all facilities.  ? Ensured all computer equipment is prepared and maintained IAW USAF contract requirements and local ISS policies. Collected management information data on system operation.  ? Kept interconnectivity between the 374th Force Support Squadron specialized and non-specialized systems and other local and remote systems intact. Established TCP/IP, IPX/SPX, and DHCP connectivity with other systems and base and remote email.  ? Configured software for network and stand-alone workstations. Taught users the computer techniques and procedures to help them use the systems effectively. Help Desk Technician World IT Solutions EDS - Okinawa, JP May 2005 to February 2006 Provided support to end-users for PC, server or mainframe application, and hardware. Used Remedy ticket system daily  ? Handled problems issues that the first-tier(s) of help desk support is unable to resolve. Interact with network services, software systems engineering, and/or applications development to restore service and/or identify and correct core problem. Assisted in simulation and recreation of user problems.  ? Daily multi-tasking using, phones, MS office, filing and customer service. Used excellent verbal and written skills and strong organizational skills. Help Desk Technician Japan Telecom - Okinawa, JP July 2004 to May 2005 Provided computer technical support for Japan Telecom Customers  ? Diagnosed and resolved technical problems over the phone with customers or opened up a trouble ticket.  ? Open, log and resolved computer support calls using support center database  ? Extensive knowledge and experience in JSPOTS, Military Access Cards, Cyber monitor, BYOC, ADSL, Dial up  ? Troubleshoot, diagnose and resolve issues with PC and laptop configurations, Network connectivity, printers, and peripherals Education Information Security Management CENTRAL TEXAS COLLEGE - Tokyo, JP Business management UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND UNIVERSITY COLLEGE - Alexandria, VA Information Technology Support Professional COMPUTER LEARNING CENTERS - Alexandria, VA