Delivery Project Executive - Security Services Delivery Project Executive - <span class="hl">Security</span> Services Delivery Project Executive - Security Services - IBM, Inc Georgetown, KY Work Experience Delivery Project Executive - Security Services IBM, Inc - Lexington, KY June 2018 to Present * Assigned the largest Security Account (60 million revenue) for delivery of Managed Security Services including but not limited to Managed SIEM, Compliance, Vulnerability Management, Cyber Threat Intelligence and End Point Protection  * Participated in the negotiations and execution of the contract and led the Transition delivery to Steady State.  * Provide leadership for the daily Operations execution of Cyber Security activities, project delivery and strategic planning.  * Report on monthly Operational metrics to include Resource Unit billing and Service Level Agreement attainment.  * Provide leadership support and coaching for all team leaders in their execution of the contracted deliverables.  * Assist Account Team with relationship and opportunities execution, resulting in an additional $670K revenue. Advisory Project Manager IBM, Inc - Lexington, KY January 2015 to June 2018 - IBM, IT Security Services  * Supported internal CIO and client facing Security delivery projects to include Fortune 100 Corporations, Top 20 North American Banks, and Top 10 Financial Institutions.  * Balanced the delivery of multiple simultaneous projects utilizing traditional and agile methodologies while maintaining revenue and controlling costs with internal and sub-contracted resources.  * Utilized my Core Skills to manage the execution of security delivery and integration projects for IBM clients, including but not limited to:  ? Identity and Access Management assessment, strategy and deployment  ? Security Operations Center creation, development and deployment  ? Cloud based and traditional Security Incident Event Management (SIEM) system deployment and operational transition  ? Security consulting and staff augmentation engagements Services Project Manager - CA Services, IT Security CA Technologies - Lexington, KY January 2011 to January 2015 * Responsible for the delivery of several large-scale Identity and Access Management projects for globally based Enterprises containing multiple domains and complex architectures.  * Maintained regional revenue goals and portfolio, resulting in $8 to $10 Million in annual revenue.  * Through traditional and agile methods, delivery of the following solutions was provided to financial, technology, manufacturing, health and automotive market segments:  ? Custom software development and integration of CA owned along with multiple vendor solutions.  ? CA Security suite deployments of Identity Minder, Site Minder, Governance Minder and Data Minder  * Provide mentorship and/or assumed responsibility for execution of troubled and complex projects for successful delivery. Program / Project Manager - Business Solutions Group - New Start A Xerox Co - Lexington, KY August 2009 to January 2011 Lexington, KY  Program / Project Manager - Business Solutions Group - New Start ups  * Created and managed customer relationships for the Insurance West Division to achieve the strategic goals and financial objectives of the Division by on boarding new customers and growing revenue with existing customers.  * Led the project teams (Business Analysts, Technical Architects and Developers) to execute the project deliverables, including business process analysis and improvements in workflow for customers.  * Responsible for defining the Statement of Work (contract), project charter, budget, schedule and associated management tools and documents to implement web based (MS-DotNet and IIS based) healthcare document management solutions with strong security and privacy components. Specialist / Project Manager - Infrastructure Toyota Motor Manufacturing, Inc - Georgetown, KY January 2007 to July 2009 * Responsible for all IT project definitions, planning and execution in North, Central and South America related to WAN/LAN, Voice Network, Mobile Network and Firewall services for Toyota Manufacturing.  * Performed vendor relationship management functions to negotiate contracts, resolve operational issues, and define new IT solutions with several suppliers resulting in $4.5 million reduction in annual operating expenses.  * Evaluated and recommended "best business practice" solutions for usability, security and maintenance for longevity within a fast-paced environment. Senior Project Manager / Program Manager - Infrastructure Reynolds and Reynolds - Dayton, OH 1999 to 2007 * Managed and delivered projects under the Infrastructure Program including Software Applications, IT Security, Data and Voice Networks, and Physical Facilities, while maintaining a high level of ownership.  * Developed strong knowledge of corporate business processes and practices, and relationship management skills working with team members, upper management and Executive level management and Board of Directors.  * Managed the portfolio of Infrastructure and IT Security projects to evaluate, recommend and implement technologies to increase productivity and reduce the operating budget by $7 Million dollars (50%).  * Performed duties as the lead project manager to implement IT Security tools including Anti-Virus, Intrusion Detection, ID Management, Secure VPN and DMZ re-architecture. Network and Applications Specialist Kettering Medical Center - Kettering, OH 1997 to 1999 * Responsible for the analysis of business needs and solution procurement, implementation and support of various applications for business divisions of the hospital.  * Maintained project budgets and schedules. SSgt - Communications Specialist U.S. Air Force - Springfield, OH 1992 to 1998 * Developed leadership skills to organize teams to execute on tactical delivery objectives.  * Trained to operate secure wired and wireless network communications equipment to support airfield operations.  * Managed team of communication specialists to design, implement and support tactical communication solutions.  * Performed duties while deployed for several Federal and State Operations, earning distinguished service awards.  * Awarded Airmen of the Year in 1996.  * Obtained Top Secret clearance. Systems Analyst NCI Information Systems - Fairborn, OH 1996 to 1997 * Developed and maintained PowerBuilder applications to support Air Force contract.  * Performed help desk functions. Education B.S. in Management Information Systems Wright State University - Fairborn, OH 1991 to 1997 Skills Service level agreements, Time management, Relationship management, Budgeting, Cost control, Forecasting, Operations, Metrics, Problem solving, Proposal development, Staffing, Budget, Contract negotiations, Mitigation, Excellent written, Presentation skills, Maintenance, Issue management Additional Information CORE SKILLS    * Complex problem solving and solution design  * Professional client relationship management  * Excellent written, oral and presentation skills  * Time management  * Contract negotiations and management  * Development and maintenance of delivery schedules, milestones and/or iterations  * Forecasting, budgeting and cost control via tracking and variance reporting  * Risk and Issue management through identification, mitigation and control  * Developing and maintaining communication plans to all stakeholders, team members and executives  * Developing and delivering reporting status and metrics to stakeholders  * Staffing and managing resources both on and off shore as well as direct report and matrixed  * Proposal development and presentation for new opportunities  * Budget and revenue management and growth  * Operations delivery aligned to Service Level Agreements