Budget & Management Analyst Budget &amp; Management <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Policy Professional Columbus, GA Experienced and motivated civil servant with considerable knowledge and experience in the areas of public policy and administration, governmental relations, public finance, and state/local affairs. Effective communicator, leader and critical thinker with a track record of establishing goals, devising strategies and accomplishing objectives with precision and efficiency. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Budget & Management Analyst Columbus Consolidated Government - Columbus, GA October 2017 to Present Assists in the creation and publishing of the operating and capital budget of the Columbus  Consolidated Government, a local governmental entity serving over 200,000 residents.    Plans and performs trend analyses and revenue projects; determines financial and socio-economic  indicators; performs analysis of operating position, debt structure, unfunded liabilities, and fund  balance; designs and utilizes forecasting models and statistical techniques.    Monitors and analyzes state legislation and local ordinances affecting operating budgets and makes appropriate allowances through the development of sound fiscal policy. IT Support Specialist Columbus State University - Columbus, GA April 2017 to April 2018 Maintained a working knowledge of technological troubleshooting skills to optimize the equality  of learning and productivity on campus.    Participated in process improvement and employee development.    Assisted the IT Support Service Manager in overseeing the work of Help Desk agents. Transportation Security Officer U.S. Department of Homeland Security - Columbus, GA December 2016 to October 2017 Responsible for maintaining national security by preventing threats to aviation in public airports.    Operated various screening equipment and technology to identify dangerous objects in baggage, cargo and on passengers, and prevented those objects form being transported into aircraft.    Engaged in continuous development of critical thinking skills, necessary to mitigate actual and potential security threats by identifying, evaluating and applying appropriate situational options  and approaches. Education Master's in Public Administration and Policy Columbus State University - Columbus, GA January 2016 to May 2018 Bachelor's in Political Science Columbus State University - Columbus, GA August 2011 to December 2015 Skills Budgeting, Nonprofit, Government Relations, Research, Policy Development, Compliance, Financial Reporting, Accounting, Public Speaking, Quality Center, QA Links http://www.kaelanboyd.com