Sr. Information Security Analyst / Engineer Sr. Information <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> / Engineer Sr. Information Security Analyst / Engineer - XEROX, Rochester NY Rochester, NY Work Experience Sr. Information Security Analyst / Engineer XEROX, Rochester NY - Rochester, NY December 2016 to Present Managed risk and vulnerability within the company standards and Policies, gathered and communicated Information security measurements and metrics to Directors and CISO in order to improved increased visibility into the company Risk Posture. Utilizes detailed industry data analysis techniques. Proactively worked with the IT Global Operations team to aid in Control and measurement of risk and vulnerabilities. Worked with project team on the coherence of Security and Risk Assessment. Created metrics and dashboards to help in communication to cross functional teams, while implementing standard security controls and processes.  • Service delivery manager for the Vulnerability Program  • Managed Tenable5.0 and HP Web Inspect tool set for Global Xerox Data Centers  • Cross trained with IDS/IPS FireEye Software  • Setup and managed Enterprise Splunk for security team  • Worked with teams to migrate of Arc serve to QRADAR  • Worked directly with Business units on remediation efforts of Identified Vulnerabilities using products like RSAM/Axis  • Cross managed implementation of Cylance (cloud antivirus SAAS) Consultant / Principal MBL Consulting Services - Rochester, NY 1997 to Present Security Analyst / Security Project Manager Excellus BCBS, Modis - Rochester, NY July 2015 to December 2016 Managed Identity and Access Management security information implementation of Radiant logic, forgerock openAM and Sailpoint; Assessed and Created File Share Remediation along with Key management and log management best practices.  Managed the implementation of IT General Controls related to Access Controls.  ? Provide leadership and guidance for team members relating to Certificate management, identity processes, procedures, privileged account management and role based access controls, while preserving the confidentiality, integrity, and availabilities of identity services within the organization.  ? Implemented control and remediation Procedures on access control  ? Worked with SIME Team to implement security event analysis around standard security controls  ? Serves as point person for the client on Service Delivery issues / escalations and take accountability for remediating any service failures  ? Monitor accounts for change in solution/product usage, personnel, goals, mission, financial conditions, competitor involvement and other areas that could have an effect on the clients' ongoing use and/or satisfaction with SailPoint's products and services Security Analyst University of Rochester, TEKSystems - Rochester, NY 2014 to 2015 PM  Managed the milestones, timelines, resource allocation and communications to cross function groups. Worked with developers on IBM identity management (SIM6) application, this included the alignment of technology initiatives with key business objectives. While recommending programs and strategies to improve overall performance and security. Identified and mitigated program/project level risks and issues.  ? Managed IBM access and security manager projects  ? Helped in data flow for adapters, lifecycle operations user access and security application  ? Worked with senior leadership on collaboration and technical communication  ? Worked with Security on Hipaa compliance  ? Helped in reengineering Business Processes Service Design /Transition Project Manager MINDEX/Xerox - Webster, NY 2013 to 2014 Webster, NY 2013 to 2014 (10 month) Jun to Apr  Global provider of information technology products, services, and solutions  Service Design /Transition Project Manager  Worked with groups to implement and transition infrastructure and developer support to new enterprise organization. Implemented new technology in the backup and restore environment, virtualized hundreds of VM's and improved SCOM monitoring. Managed the hosted environment disaster recovery environment while managing Drills activities.  ? Managed migration from VMware Lab Manager to VCloud  ? Worked with Security office on PCI and risk analyst along with internal compliance and audit groups  ? Managed logistics & migration of development SAN, Virtualized and network environment  ? Managed 3rd party vendor support  ? Managed the Implementation of System Center OM, CM Jan - Jun (Volunteer) Touch sail, Rochester 2013 to 2013 Sr IT Technical Administrator Xerox Services - Webster, NY 2011 to 2012 Webster, NY 2011 to 2012 (1year 7month) May- Dec  Division of Xerox that offers diversified business process outsourcing (BPO) and information technology ( IT) services  Security Ops /Sr IT Technical Administrator  Managed the development and lifecycle of corporates semi-custom user access / security application. This included milestones, timelines, resource allocation, and communications to cross function groups. Aligned technology initiatives with key business objectives while recommending programs and strategies to improve overall performance and security. Identified and mitigated program/project level risks and issues.  * Enhanced system functionality by transitioning Sun Identity Management to NetIQ and Access Governance Suite.  * Managed the Global Service Delivery for their existing Identity management technology solution  * Maintained software versioning, monitored application quality and service delivery metrics.  * Managed a team of twenty cross-functional resources to ensure the completion of engineering activities and documentation. Technical Project Manager, System Operations technisource - Pittsford, NY 2010 to 2011 Pittsford, NY 2010-2011 (11 Months) Jun- May  Telecommunications solutions provider acquired by Windstream in 2011  Technical Project Manager, System Operations  Challenged with restructuring customer pricing to reflect changes in Oracle licensing fees. Partnered with senior marketing and sales leaders to devise and execute customer-retention strategies while minimizing risks. Helped managed a Multimillion dollar infrastructure upgrade including implementation of an IBM DS8700 storage array and infrastructure component that realigned the managed hosting environment and improved data warehouse support.  * Delivered 25% cost savings by migrating Pinnacles 6.3.1+ software to a new company data center with minimal disruption to operations.  * Led enterprise data warehouse migration off a vendor's shared SAN Dedicated 3par SAN at CSC, which:  * Helped Data performance by 20% & Reduced expenses by $250,000 per year.  * Ensured effective communications management and status reporting Senior Project Manager Hewlett Packard 2006 to 2010 Led technical engineering teams in standardizing procedures, and reporting in partnership with the Project Management Office (PMO). Supervised all extranet disaster recovery initiatives and audits. Worked closely with Xerox security and extranet teams to develop and refine firewall routes and rules. Simultaneously managed global migrations of infrastructure servers in nine countries to a new standard globalization template. Served as Senior Project Manager for all extranet requests, including those involving new firewall rules, XML, SSL, and site-to-site/B2B VPNs. Held regular meetings with external customers to discuss needs and address issues.  * Successfully managed multiple large, medium & small projects per year. Led data center migration to improve disaster recovery and storage capabilities.  * Improved help desk efficiency by upgrading 18 enterprise Blackberry servers and related software and implementing two SQL high-availability mirrored database servers.  * Played a key role in enhancing information availability by establishing a SharePoint site to serve as an online data repository. IT Analyst III Hewlett Packard - Webster, NY 1998 to 2010 Aug - May  Global provider of information technology products, services, and solutions Information Analysts /Project Manager Hewlett Packard 1998 to 2006 Primary liaison for external customer. Implemented a Citrix / GCR infrastructure, managing all engineering, testing, and delivery for a 14-server Citrix farm. Supervised remote teams of 15 for separating the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services' healthcare integrated general ledger accounting system from EDS' infrastructure.  * Improved network efficiency by managing the removal of 1000+ IP addresses from applications, telecom devices, and infrastructure servers.  * Directed project for EDS Northeast IP restructuring involving more than two million IP and firewall upgrades. Project/Network Manager The Sutherland Group Ltd - Pittsford, NY 1993 to 1998 Education BS in Information Technology Empire State College Skills SECURITY, SHAREPOINT, CISM, COMPTIA, DISASTER RECOVERY Links http://www.linkedin.com/pub/mark-lawless/4/a47/59a