IT Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Analyst Clayton, NC ? Competent IT professional with 10+ years of diverse hands-on experience  ? Experienced in client-facing and colleagues interaction to resolve complex technical IT issues, exhibiting excellent communication and troubleshooting skills   ? Effective team player, deadline oriented. Highly capable of organizing and clearly and accurately presenting complex solutions to various levels of stakeholders  ? Highly skilled in Systems Administration, Networking, Scripting, Technical Support, and Hardware/Software maintenance Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Analyst HCL Technologies - Cary, NC April 2019 to Present ·        Provide hardware/software/network problem diagnosis/resolution via telephone for customer’s end users.  ·        Monitors the service desk ticket queue and provides follow up in order to ensure timely and satisfactory resolution to user requests/incidents within agreed SLA.  ·        Resolve or Routing incidents and requests to appropriate teams  ·        Use the Call Tracking System to document and manage problems and work requests and their respective resolutions and circumventions.  ·        Work closely with helpdesk peers in cross-training, development/implementation of operational excellence procedures and fostering teamwork.  ·        Troubleshoot mobile devices (Android, iOS devices) Field Technician Knight Enterprises - Raleigh, NC May 2017 to April 2019 Technical support  • Network configuration and troubleshooting. Wireless network setup  • Written and oral How-To's for the newly installed equipment.  • Recommendation and follow up to ensure the quality of service  • Designing, planning and adhering to the best industry's practices of cable management. IT Field Service Technician Piper Technologies - Raleigh, NC March 2018 to August 2018 • Structured cabling installation. Routers, switches installation and configuration  • Point-Of-Sale system installation and configuration  • PC hardware/software troubleshooting  • Phone Boards, and Phone Systems configuration System Administrator SKIF, Inc - Yakutsk January 2011 to March 2017 a food company) Jan 2011 - Mar 2017  Yakutsk, Russia  Leading regional food producing company. Staff 500+ in 7 cities. 30 retail stores and 300+ wholesale clients  System Administrator  ? Provided IT administration and supported all facets of network, security, server, application, desktop infrastructure.  ? Deployed Windows Server 2003/2008 R2/2012.  ? Installed and configured Active Directory Domain Services.  ? Utilized Group Policy in AD defining user, security and networking policies  ? Deployed new automation systems for manufacturing and sales, including accounting and retail software.  ? Set up 20 retail stores from scratch, in town, and in remote locations including training the staff.  ? Supported 500+ users at the production site and remote branches, 100+ Point-Of-Sale systems in 30 retail stores in 7 cities.  ? Performed analysis and presented results using SQL, MS Access, Excel, and Visual Basic scripts.  ? Analyzed effectiveness of IT infrastructure, proposed and implemented new hardware to improve the productivity of the company  ? Increased stability and speed of communication of branches by installing and configuring telecommunication equipment.  ? Performed various network administrative activities including, but not limited to network maintenance, upgrades, workstation and printer maintenance, user account maintenance, network access, and network backups.  ? Solved technical issues by visiting clients on site and using remote access software including other regions of the country  ? Provided diagnosis of PCs, laptops including applications  ? Provided support and maintenance of accounting software. Information Security Specialist Joint Stock Commercial Bank Almazergienbank - Yakutsk September 2005 to January 2011 in 30 branches  Information Security Specialist  ? Summarized and evaluated new banking software offerings by communicating with the software vendors and then assisted on setting up new software for corporate clients and for retail clients. Onboarding new software for clients enabled the bank to add 1000+ more corporate customers and extend its corporative business by 65%, and retail business by 3000+ and 25% more clients.  ? Utilized JIRA ticketing system for interacting with vendors    ? Administered Oracle databases - backup and recovery, performance tuning, performance monitoring. Utilized Spotlight for monitoring and tuning database.  ? Increased service coverage of bank by participating in the opening of 5 new branches and education the new staff  ? Administered 200+ users in different branches, controlled and tuned user rights, roles and privileges  ? Participated in creation of regulatory documents of bank security policies and procedures  ? Performed information security analysis, protected information from unauthorized access and violations.  ? Diagnosis of information security issues  ? Installed and maintained front-end and back-end banking software Education Bachelor in Computer Science North Eastern Federal University of Russian Federation 1992 to 1996 Skills Active Directory (10+ years), Windows 7 (10+ years), Windows 10 (7 years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Windows Server (10+ years), JIRA (6 years), Hardware (10+ years), Desktop Support (10+ years), Troubleshooting (10+ years), Customer Service (10+ years), MS Remote Desktop (10+ years) Additional Information ? Competent IT professional with 10+ years of diverse hands-on experience  ? Experienced in client-facing and colleagues interaction to resolve complex technical IT issues, exhibiting excellent communication and troubleshooting skills  ? Effective team player, deadline oriented. Highly capable of organizing and clearly and accurately presenting complex solutions to various levels of stakeholders  ? Highly skilled in Systems Administration, Networking, Scripting, Technical Support, and Hardware/Software maintenance    SKILLS  • Windows Server 2003/2003 R2/2008/2008 R2/2012  • MS Active Directory, MS DHCP Server, MS DNS Server, MS Remote Desktop Server, Kerio WinRoute, MS Office 2007/2012/365, LDAP.  • Database: Oracle, MS SQL, ODBC, JDBC, JMS  • Network: Zyxel ZyWall, CISCO NCS 5000, Firewalls, Routers, Wi-Fi Access Point, DNS, DHCP, VLAN, VPN, WAN, SNMP, SMTP, POP3  • Ticketing system: JIRA  • Web Technologies: XML, HTML, JAVA Script, CSS, HTTP  • Security: SSL, CryptoPro, Aladdin, eToken  • Hardware: Desktops, Servers, Laptops, Printers, MFDs, Point of Sale equipment.  • Antivirus software  • Digital signatures administering