Senior. IT Program Manager Senior. <span class="hl">IT</span> Program Manager Senior. IT Program Manager Overland Park, KS Work Experience Senior. IT Program Manager ADVANTAGE SOLUTIONS - Irvine, CA 2017 to 2019 Visionary, sought-after leader who captained a new Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) platform installation from legacy financial systems. Generated strong client trust and creditability, effective IT solutions to clients, and delivered ROI value on how products will add value to client business needs. Technical savvy in ERP platforms including Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 and Oracle JD Edwards.  * Built a strong rapport with clients and provided IT/Project recommendations and leadership that resolved each client's issues, working under stringent timelines and budget constraints.  * Communicated directly with clients and major project/program stakeholders that provided insight into products and added value to current services.  * Committed to improvement of workforce skills, improved client/company business, and bottom-line results.  * Served as point of contact in leading and supporting project/program initiatives. Enterprise Security Project Manager BROADRIDGE FINANCIAL SOLUTIONS - New York, NY 2014 to 2016 Directed top-tier functional matrix teams as a valued IT Security Consultant focused on delivery of multiple solutions that covered critical Agile software continuous releases. Delivered project vision in addressing critical concerns regarding internal/external yearly audits and built strong stakeholder partnerships.  * Energized and motivated personnel to promote an inclusive working environment.  * Oversaw full SDLC projects and documented each project that covered budgeting, planning, vendor selection, cost containment, and overall short- and long-term operational goals.    * Improved processes and procedures, targeted improvements that ensured Payment Card Industry (PCI), HIPAA, Security and Exchange (SEC), and SOX compliance standards, rules, and regulations were maintained.  * Empowered and mobilized the customer experience with new products and services that improved overall performance standards.  * Devised and delivered effective business requirements, enhanced stakeholder relationships, and delivered compelling presentations to individual and group audiences.  * Built long-standing partnerships with a multitude of Business contacts. Senior. Project Manager/Business Development Consultant BROADRIDGE FINANCIAL SOLUTIONS - New York, NY 2014 to 2015 Brought in to complete onsite technical assessments for a number of prospective clients who anticipated fluctuating business and market growth. Interpreted complex technical information, data points, and critical requirements to quickly develop and implement more efficient client processes and procedures.  * Managed new/existing accounts, developed each opportunity and ensured consistent recurring revenue.  * Delivered significant value to each client that addressed IT/Business requirements, documented reports, shared knowledge, and developed sustainable business partnerships. Senior. Program Manager BROADRIDGE FINANCIAL SOLUTIONS - Kansas City, MO 2013 to 2014 Oversaw and directed a PeopleSoft 9.1 FSCM upgrade engagement. Developed project scope, resource requirements, and executive project reporting, as well as testing and user training programs. Directed numerous Critical Infrastructure Protection (CIP) Audit initiatives covering both Network Security, Application Security, Device Security, Access Control Security, and Overall Security Policies.  * Directed new Training Facility development, managed a number of teams including Network, IT, Telecom, Audio/Visual, Facilities, and Physical Security.  * Implemented and led application development for three Business Intelligence initiatives and developed alternative solutions for initial gaps.  * Engaged subject matter experts in greater productivity and project engagement; closed out projects, wrapped-up activities, as well as documented project governance and executive reporting using Scorecards, Dashboard and Roadmaps. Senior Program Manager SPRINT NEXTEL - Reston, VA 2011 to 2013 Managed cross-functional teams from a number of internal teams and ensured all programs/projects were completed on time and on/below budget. Fostered long-standing relationships with vendors that supported and maintained project/program objectives.  * Improved processes related to key 4G LTE, Enhanced Call Switch Fallback, Customer Relationship Management (CRM) web portal and other major initiatives. Senior Program Manager / Ignite Sourcing Consultant AMDOCS - Overland Park, KS 2011 to 2011 Provided functional expertise in business process reengineering, transformation, organizational design/change management, implementation planning and execution, migration and conversion, testing and/or training. Oversaw CRM program releases through all phases of the Software Development Lifecycle.  * Created and manage the project plan in Microsoft Project for tracking the project progress and report status team management, ensuring client satisfaction.  * Managed multiple offshore engagement teams' performance and provide feedback.  * Delivered business and technical solutions with strategic client teams.  * Analyzed information, prepared presentations and delivered written proposals to clients. Senior Project Manager / Consultant DAVIDSON AND ASSOCIATES, Cleveland - Park, KS 2010 to 2011 Initiated six-month engagement for installation of a new point-of-sale platform to facilitate a seamless customer interaction. Created product roadmaps, product plans, project schedules, and tools that captured and prioritized requirements. Administered project budget by reviewing all process invoices and approving all expenditures.  * Insured compliance with government regulations, engineering drawings, and customer specifications.  * Performed field assessments and proposed different alternatives of existing design to improve actual overall performance.  * Captured significant cost savings through review/analysis of new and existing vendor agreements.  * Developed and implemented policies and procedures while maintaining quality and cost control. Senior Project Manager TEK Systems - Kansas City, MO 2009 to 2010 Evaluated systems and procedures to derive sound recommendations for improving design prototypes and proof of concepts leading to increased client satisfaction, while subsequently negotiating enhancements to existing systems.  * Worked with clients on assigned projects to identify solutions to business problems and streamlines processes.  * Mentored specific project team members to ensure sound execution and delivery of all assigned projects within time, scope, and budget.  * Managed several cross-functional teams to modify existing systems allowing over 120,000 plus seasonal associates to be hired and subsequently terminated within a predetermined schedule.  * Served as the main contact between the client and various vendors while overseeing the day-to-day operations of Portal development including Content Management Systems (CMS) projects until completion.  * Successfully implemented time-management and planning skills through increased interpersonal skills. Project Manager III SPRINT NEXTEL - Overland Park, KS 2006 to 2009 Supervised product managers and cross-functional teams to successfully deliver project scopes. Collaborated with technology and content leadership in all stages of the product development process. Implemented and administered project controls including status reports, change control, and issue resolution.  * Ensured timely release of schedules through successful delivery of each launch market's requirements while simultaneously working in tandem with various channels.  * Created product positioning strategies and offered recommendations that improved product team's business and systems requirements.  * Served as 4G WiMAX product liaison to the project management office while assisting with the mobile broadband product roadmaps and strategies development.  * Headed field operation troubleshooting teams to resolve network and device issues during XOHM soft launch in national markets.  Peoplesoft Project Manager II  Headed conversion and infrastructure migration project schedules, plan updates and budget tracking. Managed team of system administrators, IT engineers, and DBAs while supporting the existing environment to provide direction for large-scale PeopleSoft 8.9 upgrade.  * Facilitated project kickoff meetings to define project scope, implemented technical/operational requirements identification, developed detailed plans and budgets  * Performed fit/gap analysis, designed gap strategies, and recommended business process changes to take advantage of delivered functionality, effectively eliminating obsolete customizations.  * Completed project requirements for implementation of a PeopleSoft enterprise portal for employee and manager self-service and deployment of self-service reporting leveraging PeopleSoft Enterprise Performance Management (EPM) and Microstrategy.  * Managed full lifecycle, multi-phase roll-out of self-service reporting component of Sprint Nextel's first unified ERP implementation.  * Improved HR and payroll efficiencies through production support and functionality enhancements.  * Received "Peak Performer Award" for commitment to customers while achieving maximum business results.  TEK Systems Consultant / Senior Consultant - Overland Park, Kansas  Led the infrastructure and conversion teams through an upgrade project. Managed all aspects of diverse medium to moderately complex IT projects, including project planning, execution, timing, functionality, quality, and cost. Supervised work of project/program management team, assigned individual responsibilities after developing work breakdown structure, identified appropriate resources, and developed schedules to ensure timely completion of projects. Provided daily team status reports.  * Served as subject matter expert with systems scope and project objectives, effectively coordinating activities of various core teams.  * Utilized expertise and leadership skills to direct team members and resolve issues to ensure project goals and requirements were met on-time and budget. Senior Project Leader ASURION - Nashville, TN 2005 to 2006 Managed software development team to replace legacy batch processing systems using the Ascential Extract, Transform, Load (ETL) product suite. Instituted new standards using MSF framework while serving as member of governance committee. Extracted Transform Load (ETL) and Interactive Voice Response (IVR) applications.  * Provided on-site project management and quality control ensuring project requirements were met.  * Collaborated with architects and engineers to create requirements, specifications, and platforms.  * Partnered with IBM to resolve multiple issues with 7.5x2 product suite moving organization to preferred vendor status while receiving multiple financial credits during six-month engagement.  * Created unified Interactive Voice Response (IVR) / Computer Telephony Integration (CTI) platform for recently-merged organization using multiple outsource/offshore partners.  * Negotiated subcontract agreements, purchase orders, and general contracts.  * Provided a major cost savings opportunity to the organization by validating business rules and eliminating code replication, which, increased data efficiency and reduced operational cost. Consultant/ IT Architect IBM - Overland Park, KS 2001 to 2005 Developed system requirements to create business-based recommendations and drive quality solutions. Planned and coordinated project schedules, oversaw full lifecycle development, and supervised software customization while managing client site integrations.  * Performed asset/configuration management, event management, infrastructure architecture, project management, and business process reengineering.  * Monitored data of various systems collectively shared in among enterprises, clients, and vendors.  * Maintained solid rapport with clients through consistent communication.  * Recruited new internal/external client services, which led to the integration and production support efforts.  * Retired out-of-date and costly systems that resulted in significant cost savings to the organization.  Team Lead / Senior Systems Analyst / System Analyst / NetWise Consultant  Managed 23 developers through wireless development as Project/Product Manager and Team Lead on projects including applications used for customer acquisition/management, sales, and account set-up/maintenance. Responded to emergency situations with sensitivity to deadlines and customer needs.  * Communicated project estimates, plans, deliverables, and status to team members and management.  * Established team to convert several key business applications to new billing system.  * Applied industry knowledge to successfully solve problems through technical and functional application design.  * Created visual UML depictions of environments/applications/data models. Interpreted client needs while designing custom software applications, translating requirements into logical, economical, and practical system.  * Promoted due to ability to implement quality projects on time and under budget.  * Honored with Sprint Values Excellence Award. Four-time "On the Spot" recipient. Software Analyst / Training Manager TRAQ-IT SOFTWARE, LLC - Overland Park, KS 1999 to 2001 Operations Manager EXHIBITOR VISIBILITY WORLDWIDE - Overland Park, KS 1999 to 1999 Education B.S. in Communications University of Arizona - Tempe, AZ Skills Project Management, integration, Change Management, Agile, Visio Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/matthewbiersmith