US Department of Education IT Manager US Department of Education <span class="hl">IT</span> Manager US Department of Education IT Manager - Spear Washington, DC Experience Summary:  Possess very strong verbal and written communication skills. Self-motivated with the ability to manage time and complete tasks and submit deliverables to clients on time. Experienced with the use of NIST Guidelines, FISMA framework, ISO 27001, ISO 55000/01/02. Possess strong written and oral communication skills as as well as interpersonal and negotiating skills. Possess ability to manage priorities judiciously and a strong ability to present ideas in business-friendly and user-friendly language.  Security Clearance: 6C Clearance DoED Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience US Department of Education IT Manager Spear April 2016 to Present Test Manager of the US Department of Education IT Test Lab leading a team of Test Engineers to provide testing services for new or upgraded software/hardware items proposed for introduction to the Department of Education IT environment. The Test Lab falls under the Office of Chief Information officer (OCIO).  Duties include:  • Provide service to all 21 Program Offices at the Department of Education for testing of new or upgraded software or hardware requests and running vulnerability security scanning for compliance with Departmental Policies and USGCB/DIS STIGS standards  • Provide Weekly updates to Federal Student Aid (FSA) regarding any outstanding requests with the Test Lab and plan of action to address them  • Provide Weekly updates to the OCIO's office on any ageing requests, reason and plan of action to complete requests  • Ensuring that applications tested meet US Government USGCB settings under FIPS 140-2 based on NIST 800-53 standards and US Department of Defense DISA STIGS for Windows 7 and 10 operating systems  • Providing test results and documentation upon completion of testing to the customers and the Enterprise Architecture Review Board (EARB) for approval  • Attend Enterprise Architecture Review Board (EARB) meetings to provide input for the approval process of tested applications  • Developing Standard Operating Policies and Procedures aligned to the business goals and policies of the Department of Education for the Test Lab.  • Provide guidance and work with All Department of Education IT Points of Contact (POCs) to assist users through the process of having new applications tested for approval by the Enterprise Architecture Review board (EARB)  • Provided guidance to Test Lab team and testing support on the Windows 10 upgrade and tested over 400 applications throughout the Department of Education  • Assign Test Lab resources as needed to provide testing services for software/hardware and firmware updates  • Assigning Test Lab resources to provide testing services for software patches and client Advocates. Administering SharePoint sites to manage Test Lab activities  • Assigning Test Lab resources to provide testing services for new GPO Policies and updates to existing GPO policies as the policies are developed by Desktop Engineering team  • Providing guidance to the Test Lab for windows 10 activities and support  • Engaged in working with Desktop Engineering and Customers to address testing issues  • Provide daily Windows 10 Test Results to all stakeholders  • Directing Windows 10 issues remediation and providing reports to Windows 10 Project team  • Attend Daily operations management meetings  • Prepare and submit Weekly and Monthly Status reports to upper management  • Preparing and submitting all deliverables for the operation of the IT Test Lab Test Team Lead StudentAid.gov July 2012 to Present currently offers over 150 pages of English content and 100 pages of associated Spanish (SP) content. StudentAid.gov is FSA's 1st mobile optimized site and has received over 45 million unique visitors since July 2012.  Test Team Lead, interfaced directly with the FSA Contracting Officer Representative (COR) and was responsible for all deliverables on the Project and management of team to complete tasks and provide support.  • Submitted to the COR the following deliverables: Project Management Plan, Quality Assurance Plan, System Test Plans, Master test Plan, test cases, Requirements Traceability Matrix, Test Readiness Review Checklist for Sprints1, 2, 3 and 4 System testing, UAT TRR Checklist, System test Summary Report for Sprints1, 2, 3 and 4, Defect Management Reports for System Testing, UAT testing, Weekly and Monthly Status Reports.  • Performed responsibilities of gathering client requirements and analyzing functional and non-functional requirements. Performed requirements analysis.  • Provided Metrics on Test Cases (Included in weekly status report) and Metrics for Production Readiness Review slides  • Used Rational Jazz, Clear case, Team Concert and Rational Quality Manager for RTM, Writing Test scripts/cases and defect management  • The project used an agile development approach. Team is required provide test documentation, system testing, support for user acceptance testing, and coordination with the ISE Integrated Project Team (IPT) team. Responsible for testing and managing the testing team to accomplish the following tasks and providing the testing support:  ? Review all project requirements documentation and include questions related to the documentation to the FSA ISE Test Manager  ? Created new test cases in Rational Quality Manager for enhancements and new features for the PC view, tablet view, and smartphone view including Apple iOS and Android  ? Perform system testing including intersystem testing by executing the test cases and coordinating with other testers using the required browsers (e.g. Internet Explorer (IE) 9,IE 8, Firefox, Chrome, Safari, other browsers may be added)  ? Conduct intersystem testing on java platforms between ISE and other entities that do business with Federal Student Aid.  ? Provide inputs to the Defect Management Microsoft Office Power Point slides to be incorporated into the Production Readiness Review (PRR) slide deck that is prepared by the FSA Project Manager IT Cyber Security Project Manager, National Health Insurance Project (NHIA) Project MetroStar Corporation June 2015 to April 2016 Was Project Manager on IV and V Project Team to perform an IT security assessment audit with the NHIA. The scope was to validate the Organizations compliance with applicable standards (e.g. ISO 27001 and other standards and framework). The project also includes an Asset management component for ISO 55000/01/02 compliance.  Developed the findings report that provided customer with ISO 27001 and ISO 55000 maturity and performed a Gap analysis.  • Developed the Inception Report for the Project after meetings with the Stakeholders and sponsors.  • Assessed the Governance process in place to help recommend solutions that will conform to Industry best practices.  • Reviewed the disaster recovery and Business continuity plans in place  • Performed interviews and scored responses against ISO 27001 compliance and other applicable framework. Reviewed activities of Computer Security Assistant and Internet Administrator.  • Reviewed and analyzed the Penetration testing results and incorporated it in the Draft findings report for the Project  • Developed comprehensive draft report that addressed findings for Penetration Testing, document reviews, ISO 55000/01/02, ISO 27001, Axence nVision tracking reports and any relevant findings obtained.  • Completed final report with taking into consideration comments by the client and made recommendations with step-by-step approach to attain desired ISO 27001 Maturity status that would align with the goals of the Organization  • Final activities involved recommending security processes and procedures and perform cost benefit analysis on all recommended strategies. Collaborate with Internal auditors to present results to senior management. Develop curricula and facilitate awareness training.  • Managed security risk metrics and tracked effectiveness.  Disaster Recovery and Business Continuity:  • Collaborated with National Health Insurance Authority business units to determine continuity requirements.  • Conducted business impact analysis for vital functions; document recovery priorities of the key processes, applications and data. Project Manager MetroStar Corporation August 2005 to April 2016 for MetroStar Corporation on multiple projects Project Manager MetroStar Corporation November 2014 to June 2015 Project  Consulting engagement to review the TIM system, testing program and security artifacts developed during the development of the Technical Infrastructure Modernization (TIM) system used by DHS for the onboarding of the Aviation, marine and surface populations.  Analyzed requirements against the TIM documentation and rewriting portions after reviewing with the TSA adjudicators. Also managed testing the TIM system and worked with TSA adjudicators for functionality. IV and V Project Manager ASR Tech Solutions MetroStar Corporation August 2014 to November 2014 Perform IV and V service for the Maryland Health Exchange project. The project was to review and test documentation in relation to the new system being built for the MHE and the associated security controls. IT Project Manager MetroStar Corporation September 2013 to August 2014 Integrated Student Experience (ISE) PM Dept. of Education  QSSI ISE Test Team Lead at the Department of Education tasked with testing Phase 1 and Mega Menu Enhancements of http://studentaid.gov/ and Phase 2 Integration of the National Student Loan Data System (NSLDS) on May 4 2014. Senior IT Project Manager on National Health Insurance Authority StudentAid.gov January 2013 to August 2013 NHIA) project, Ghana (Working remotely based on GMT time differences)  MetroStar partnered with Ernst and Young on this project to perform an Independent verification and validation audit of the NHIA IT infrastructure.  • Conducted stakeholder and site survey as part of requirements gathering and performed analysis for review with client  • Assessed security risks using ISO 27001, NIST 800-53 and provided findings and recommendations  • As part of Security assessment, performed Network and Application Penetration testing as well as reviewing Network and Application Infrastructure Diagrams  • Provided strategic assessment of the IT Enterprise Architecture (infrastructure, governance, processes, and data) for the National Health Insurance Authority (NHIA) in Ghana, Africa Quality Control Testing Center (QCTC), Test Manager MetroStar Corporation US Securities and Exchange (SEC) September 2008 to August 2013 Independent Verification and Validation (IV&V) services testing for functional, Usability, section 508, load and stress testing for the Securities and Exchange Commission.  • Software IV and V Testing Services  • Was Test Manager in setting up of the newQuality Control Testing Center (QCTC) to provide Independent testing of both COTS and custom applications provided by vendors for the SEC  • Tested several applications each week for functionality and provided test results to the SEC  • Hosted several Tested readiness reviews and defect review meeting to provide guidance on defects identified  • Wrote policies and procedures to the Testing Center and provided guidance to vendors  • Due to success of Test Center, all vendors proving applications are required to go through the QCTC before promoting application into production    MetroStar Corporation June 2008 to September 2008  Department of Commerce Census Bureau FDCA Project:  Work with Harris Corporation on the FDCA 2010 Census Project as test Engineer, testing both Hardware and software developed for Field Technicians to conduct Census activities.    • Responsible for estimating required resource and components for SOA testing    • Assigned responsibilities of supporting Enterprise Service Bus (ESB) and Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) tier in a Java environment    • Responsible for testing and implementing service oriented architecture components Business Analyst and Quality Assurance (QA) Test Manager Visionary Integration Professionals (HUD) October 2005 to June 2008 Quality Assurance Manager for VIP on the Dept. of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Inventory Management System (IMS) Project. Essential job functions include the following:  • Conducting Requirements Analysis as Business Analyst of the HUD IMS system. Requirements activities include site surveys, requirements gathering, understanding business rules and providing recommendations.  • Used HP QuickTest Professional (QTP) for functional and regression test automation. Worked with the development team to implement TDD on SQL database for the Inventory Management System for HUD housing authorities.  • Was involved in VIP attainment of CMMI level 2 appraisal as Test Manager  • Responsible for updating testing status and preparing testing requirement specifications. Tested in .NET environment using HP Quality Center for automated testing.  • Conducting Security Certification and Accreditation activities to include System Security plan, Risk Assessment, Self Assessment, Contingency Plan and Business Impact Analysis.  • Made configuration changes and recommendations on Apache servers during testing and deployment. Monitored utilization of server resources during testing and necessary configuration before deployment US Transportation Security Admin Homeland Security March 2005 to October 2005 Lead IV&V Test Engineer (Consultant)  Test Engineer for IV&V project with TSA for the new credentialing system for transportation workers. Essential job functions include the following:  • Lead Independent Verification and Verification TSA onboarding of Marine and Aviation workers testing the smartcard, magnetic strip, and 2d barcode system. Assessed the assembly, implementation, integration and test programs, including planning and control of cost and schedule issues related to the Transportation Security Agency (TSA) Transportation Worker Identification System (TWIC) Program.  • Conducted functional and operational testing of components and systems related to the TWIC identification card. Generate, interpret, implement, and monitor test requirements from system, detail design, and contract specifications.  • Provided technical oversight and support to other IV&V team members. Serve as Subject Matter Expert for the technologies supported on the TWIC identification card. Provide technical guidance to new business pursuits and proposals. Lead IV&V Test Engineer McDonald Bradley Inc. VA / US Dept. of Housing and Urban Development May 2004 to March 2005 Conducted testing activities on two related systems at the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD): the Single-Family Asset Management System (SAMS), a large, mainframe-based system supporting the administration of HUD's single family acquired assets and related financial accounting  Handled the tasks of assisting senior SOA testers in developing test strategies and in gathering testing requirements Education Workflow & Information Management Redesign Northern Virginia Community College July 2011 Graduate Certificate in Applied Project Management Villanova University January 2009 Law Ghana Law School - Accra, GH June 1984 B.A. in Legal Studies University of Ghana - Accra, GH June 1982 Skills Program Management, PMP, PMI, Project Management Certifications/Licenses Certified Scrum Master Present