Systems Administrator Systems Administrator Systems Administrator / IT Professional Experience San Francisco Bay Area, CA • Over 20 years of IT experience in network and systems administration, systems analysis, programming, application support ,information security, technical and helpdesk support.  • Windows client/server, technical, and application support expertise.   • Excellent verbal, written communication skills and can easily learn on the fly. Work Experience Systems Administrator EMRCPR @ Pulse Biosciences - Hayward, CA October 2018 to October 2018 IT Manager/System Manager coverage. L2 Technical Support / Desktop Support EMRCPR @ Mizuho OSI - Union City, CA January 2018 to September 2018 Daily Systems Admin, User Technical Support onsite and remote, Hardware and Software support.    Upgraded Windows 7 machines to Windows 10 in various departments including Engineering, Manufacturing, Accounting, HR, and other departments. Systems Administrator / Middleware Integration Operations / WebAnalyst / WebOps ProUnlimited @ Genentech - South San Francisco, CA June 2014 to November 2017 Member of Global Application Integration & Middleware Operations Team - CW    Was able to improve deployments from weekly to as per need basis. Sr Network Admin Kaiser Permanente - Oakland, CA February 2014 to June 2014 Information Security Analyst - CW CW at Brocade under Soaprojects - San Jose, CA March 2012 to September 2013 Responsibilities  Information Security Analyst (Contractor @ Brocade Communications)  – SOAProjects, San Jose, Ca 03/01/12 – Present  • Team member of the clients InfoSec Team.  •Provide root cause analysis, data malware threat analysis, data correlation, and suggest mitigation and remediation process of infected assets.   • Directs the IT Support Tech in virus cleanup/remediation of desktop, laptops and servers.  •Provide reports of malware tracker summary , top host summary and other reports required.  •Monitor malware threat and infection thru FireEYE, MS ForeFront Server Endpoint Client via SCCM, PAN, and NAC/Forescout.    Accomplishments  Was able to put down the virus/malware infection levels by 90% company wide.    Skills Used  IT Skills, Information Security, Systems Administration Systems Administrator Exar Corporation April 2009 to January 2012 Responsibilities  Provide systems and network administration and infrastructure support to both lab engineers and business users.  • Provide primary support and system administration of CRM – Salesforce and Model N, Tradesphere, Equity Edge application systems, ADP, PRTG Monitoring, and Netbackup.  • IT technical and helpdesk support for different sites in the US, Canada and China and lab engineers.   • Provide primary support and system administration of Calltower VOIP & Avaya VOIP phone systems.  •Provide IT Data Center operations support, server monitoring, and documentations.  • Primary contact for SOX and internal audits.   • Assembled, setup, configure & deploy desktops, laptops, workstations, servers and other peripherals for both engineering and business users.   • Provides preventive maintenance, troubleshooting hardware and software problems.   • Perform backup and restore, imaging of systems utilizing Netbackup and Acronis software.  • Other duties include Phone system administration, mobile phone configurations and deployments, IT Asset inventory, IT Project management, etc.     Accomplishments  A data center that is efficient and clean.  A very happy user base especially on the quality of support and quick response to user tickets.  Documentations of Servers and other assets.    Skills Used  Windows and Unix Systems Administration. Network administration. IT Technical Support. Network Systems Administrator Hifn, Inc. September 2008 to March 2009 IT Consultant Robert Half Technology November 2007 to June 2008 Systems Administration, Network Administration, IT Administration, Technical Support.    Clients: Paine and Partners, Clarium Capital Management, Stanford University, Charles Schwab Foundation. Consultant Modis June 1999 to May 2003 Systems Analyst/Programmer, Application Support Engineer    Clients: Foundation Health, Hewlett Packard, Agilent Technologies Application Support Engineer - Contractor Agilent Technologies 2002 to 2003 Provided 24x7 2nd/3rd tier support to Agilent's Global Order Fulfillment Systems for both production and test environments. Application Support Engineer - Contractor Hewlett-Packard 2000 to 2002 Provided 24x7x365 2nd/3rd tier application support to HP's Global Order Fulfillment Management Systems for both production and test environments. Information Systems Analyst III Pamantasan ng Lungsod ng Maynila *University of the City of Manila* 1995 to 1997 Education Oracle Classes Foothill College January 2001 to January 2002 Bachelor of Science in Accounting University of the East January 1991 to January 1994 Associate in Computer Science Pamantasan ng Lungsod ng Maynila January 1985 to January 1988 Skills IT Network and Systems Administration, Application and Technical Support, Information Security, Systems analysis and programming, IT Consulting, Database management, Helpdesk, etc. (10+ years), Vmware, Linux, Active Directory, System Admin, System Administrator, SCCM, Red Hat, Redhat, Linux Administrator, Asset Management (5 years), Windows, Microsoft Office, Office 365, Windows 10, Cisco Routers, LAN, Troubleshooting, Customer Service Links http://www.linkedin.com/pub/norman-austria/9/376/432