Lead Application Audit Control Lead Application Audit Control Lead Application Audit Control - Department of Treasury Lewisville, TX Work Experience Lead Application Audit Control Department of Treasury July 2018 to Present July 2018 - Present) Baker, William, (304) 240-8498  IRS Cybersecurity Architecture and Implementation, Kernersville, WV. 40 Hours Per Week   • Lead Application Audit Control response process (ACR) and SAAS ICD plan for new application and revalidation of existing application.  • Work closely with other IRS teams such as TIGTA, SEC OPS, application owners and ESAT team to ensure application is fully compliance with FISMA and IRS security protocols.  • Ensure PII/Taxpayers data is safeguarded and properly gets audited and collected in SAAS. Coordinate implementation of audit trail in SAAS.  • Work with ArcSight team to ensure infrastructure events are properly collected according to IRS security policy and procedures.  • Work with stakeholder such as TIGTA (Treasury Inspector General) and Cyber Operations to ensure production data meets the due diligence and meets the minimum standard.  • Conduct weekly working sessions with Application team and all stakeholders.  • SAAS ICD Development.  • Coordinate stakeholders review (Cyber Ops and TIGTA). Notify TIGTA and Cyber Ops to perform post-production activities.    Department of Treasury April 2017 - Present Department of Treasury April 2017 to Present Senior Cybersecurity Security Specialist Department of Treasury April 2017 to June 2018 304) 283-9053  IRS Cybersecurity Architecture and Implementation, Kernersville, WV. 40 Hours Per Week   • Architect and implementation of security and cybersecurity tools.  • Implementation of DHS sponsored and approved tool (ForeScout and SPLUNK) in CDM project for multiple phase.  • Architected and implemented DHS ForeScout systems across IRS agency. Worked with Booz Allen & Hamilton along with DHS, IRS and Treasury to implement FORESCOUT across all IRS sites across all states.  • Installed a total of 62 ForeScout Counteract, 2 HA Pair Enterprise Manager across Hub and Non-Hub IRS sites.  • Installed and configured ForeScout LAB environment in New Carrollton, Maryland.  • Partner with DHS, ForeScout, BOOZ ALLEN & HAMILTON to develop strategic plans to update all systems with security patches and the latest updates. Created the appropriate KISSAM change ticket and followed IRM process and procedures.  • Import major and minor upgrades to production through proper FORESCOUT, IRS and BAH guidelines and change control processes.  • Monitor FORESOUT daily to ensure all the Counteracts are running properly as designed.  • Troubleshoot access issues by creating firewall requests to open the necessary ports.  • Manage all upgrades to the landscape with proper DHS and IRS control steps.  • Work closely with other IRS teams such as UNS, SEC OPS, Cybersecurity Operations and Datacenter Infrastructure teams to complete our projects.  • Create appropriate Change management and Incident tickets via KISSAM or BAH to ensure proper change management protocol is followed. SAP Basis Consultant/SAP Security Analyst Brian Cory - Dallas, TX June 2014 to April 2017 Clients: L-3 Communications, NUK USA, Tokio Marine Inc. 40 Hours Per Week   • Provide support for global implementations of SAP ECC, SAP BW, PORTAL, PI, TDMS and Solution Manager.  • Implement support packs for ECC HCM systems: sandbox, training, development, quality, and production servers.  • Manage all client security upgrades every quarter and remediate security vulnerabilities caught by Nessus scan.  • Partner with client teams to develop strategic plans to update all systems with security and Windows patches.  • Import transports to production through proper SAP guidelines and change control processes.  • Monitor Redwood jobs for clients and ensure jobs are completed as scheduled.  • Troubleshoot access issues by creating firewall requests to open the necessary ports.  • Design and implement L-3 Communications Disaster Recovery Project on a yearly basis with 100% success rate.  • Lead customer meetings by preparing weekly status reports of all open tickets.  • Manage all upgrades to the landscape with proper change control steps.  • Analyze future growth within the landscape and perform capacity planning.  • Work closely with other IT, OS, and Datacenter Infrastructure teams to optimize performance and troubleshooting. AT&T August 2000 to April 2017 SAP Basis Client Consultant Lori Nevarez - Richardson, TX June 2011 to June 2014 Clients: Wawa, Philadelphia Insurance, Manitowoc Cranes, Yazaki USA 40 Hours Per Week   • Managed client SAP landscapes, including production and non-production environments.  • Maintained multiple SAP instances that included sandbox, development, testing, training, and production for applications: ECC, BW, PORTAL, XI/PI, SOL MAN, and other Non-SAP applications.  • Managed client change control processes by following service level agreements and change control procedures.  • Managed daily client interactions and developed client relationships to increase customer satisfaction.  • Led weekly client support meetings to ensure all open incidents were quickly resolved.  • Monitored SAP Redwood jobs and took appropriate actions to facilitate jobs per client business needs.  • Monitored all client SAP systems work processes and logs using SAP GUI and Operating system.  • Managed client end-to-end, post-delivery support issues relating to SAP, Networking, Virtualization, and Security.  • Worked with the Change Management team to schedule changes to SAP landscape.  • Worked with Incident Managers to resolve production outages per client SLAs.  • Provided daily operational support for multiple environments including SAP ECC, BW, GRC, HANA, Success Factors, Lumira, and various NetWeaver supported platforms, and managed multiple go-lives and migrations.  • Managed all aspects of security audits and maintain SOX evidence.  • Managed complex SAP implementations, database upgrades, Support Pack Stack upgrades (SPS), SAP Kernel upgrades, OS Kernel upgrades, and Enhancement Package (EHP) upgrades.  • Managed annual SAP client DR tests and acted as a technical project manager on the Disaster Recovery test.  • Led offshore and U.S. teams to resolve SAP and Non-SAP related customer issues in a timely manner. Senior Network/UNIX System Administrator Dallas McLaughlin - Richardson, TX August 2008 to June 2011 40 Hours Per Week   • Provided TAC-level support for IP services operations for Lightspeed Uverse, CVoIP, and DSL legacy systems.  • Provide 24x7 end-to-end support for DHCP, LDAP, Radius, NIS, G2 and RSA SecureID services.  • Administered DHCP, RADIUS, RSA Secured, and G2 application and services for U-Verse and DSL.  • Built and managed DHCP scopes for U-Verse customers and managed DHCP servers.  • Troubleshot and resolved network problems and provided support for VoIP on the BNS side/domain network.  • Provided hardware support for Linux/Solaris systems and Tier 2 support for VMware support issues. U-Verse Manager AT&T - Irving, TX July 2007 to August 2008 40 Hours Per Week   • Performed fault management analysis for Alcatel SAM and Alcatel AMS.  • Troubleshot EMS system for TCP/IP, node issue, system performance, and database issues on SAM and AMS.  • Provided support for VoIP on the BNS side/domain network.  • Escalated critical issues to ALCATEL and worked closely with EMS and ALCATEL group to resolve issues.  • Troubleshot and resolved network issues for router, switch, and port issues, while provisioning new customers.  • Worked closely with Corporate Security Operations team to diagnose and troubleshoot any firewall problems.  • Managed high-level calls with senior management and provided executive summaries to senior leadership. IT Resource Manager/Operations Manager Danny Williams - Richardson, TX August 2000 to June 2007 40 Hours Per Week   • Served as Lead Project Manager for the offshore initiative ATT-EMAS/Tech-Mahindra team in India.  • Trained offshore team on daily production support of end-of-day operations and billing.  • Created method and procedure (M&P) documents for the offshore team to follow and troubleshoot.  • Developed key relationships with offshore and onsite teams and project teams to meet project goals.  • Designated as onshore Subject Matter Expert during OJT code refreshes for project Lightspeed billing.  ( IT Resource Manager/Operations Manager ~~~~~~~~~)   • Provided support for the Telegence (TeLD) long-distance billing system, including system availability, issue resolution, change management, customer contact SLA management, M&P documentation, and maintenance.  • Performed technical evaluation/testing approval of platforms, products and services while resolving all issues.  • Helped develop operational methods procedures and job aids (methods of procedure).  • Utilized, defined requirements, and developed improvements for automation, scripts, and tools.  • Ensured efficient and independent processing of usage and customer files on the UNIX system.  • Wrote and modified UNIX shell scripts and Oracle scripts to support production support.  • Monitored, tracked, and troubleshot MMIPS file processing activities via FTP or direct connect.  • Designed and implemented production scripts and queries to generate reports for various business groups.  • Ensured the successful and timely completion of billing batch jobs.  • Analyzed, designed, implemented, and updated data back strategy for key system, database, code, and application files on various servers for disaster recovery and restore.  • Processed and tracked inbound usage files from different vendor sources through billing applications downstream.  • Identified online and batch problems, led restoral efforts, and escalated to support as appropriate.  • Researched problem root causes and ensured that all corrective and preventive measures were implemented.  • Implemented and validated batch/online environment modifications according to change control procedure. System Engineer EDS - Plano, TX May 1998 to August 2000 40 Hours Per Week   • Mainframe programing of HR systems which including DB2, JCL, COBOL and PACBASE.  • Worked on integration of Legacy HR system into SAP HR.  • Wrote and modified COBOL programs, SQL, JCL to support production support.  • Provided technical programming support for on-line and batch applications.  • Performed system, regression, integration and user acceptance testing (UAT).  • Implemented MCI WorldCom employee transition project from start to finish by designing, programming and testing. Education MBA AMBERTON UNIVERSITY - Dallas, TX Bachelor of Science degree in Information Systems & Finance UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS AT ARLINGTON - Arlington, TX Skills Basis (5 years), Change management (10+ years), Linux (2 years), SAP (8 years), VMware (2 years), Auditing, ISO Additional Information Areas of Expertise    ForeScout Administration  Splunk Architecture  SAP Administration  DHS CDM Initiative  Change Management  Cybersecurity tools Implementation    Technical Skills    IT Operation: SAP Basis, SAP Redwood, servers, storage, load balancer, IBM mainframe, DB2.    ForeScout: ForeScout Enterprise manager, ForeScout CounterAct, ForeScout FSTOOL commands, ForeScout OS CENTOS.    VMware: VMware vSphere ESXi 5.1, VMware vCenter Server 5.1, VMware Workstation, vSphere Client    Programming Languages: AWK, SED, SHELL SCRIPTING, SQL, COBOL    Operating Systems: Linux, HP, Sun Solaris and Microsoft Server 2008    EMS Systems: Fault Management Analyst for Alcatel Element Management Systems (AMS and SAM), CMS (2wire), CIENA, Ericsson Entriview    Network: TCP/IP, OSI Model, subnets, routing, DNS, NIS+, SNMP, RMON    Job Scheduler: Redwood Job Scheduler, Autosys, Cron.  Mainframe: JCL, DB2, COBOL.