Information Security Analyst - Network Administrator Information <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> - Network Administrator Information Security Analyst - Network Administrator - Naval Telecommunications Area Master Station Atlantic Detachment Jacksonville Sacramento, CA Results driven, tech savvy and loyal professional who has more than 4 years of notable experience maintaining confidentiality and sustaining productivity in the workplace. A versatile team leader with a Top Secret/SCI security clearance (TS/SCI expires 2021, Secret expires 2026) who possesses the CompTIA A + Certification. Skilled manager and planner with strong technical background. Utilizes a broad range of skills including project planning, managing budgets and personnel management. Possesses strong knowledge and familiarity of Risk Management Framework procedures, network systems, and architectures. *Currently pursuing Security + and Project Management Professional (PMP) - Projected August 2018 and October 2018, respectively. Work Experience Information Security Analyst - Network Administrator Naval Telecommunications Area Master Station Atlantic Detachment Jacksonville - Jacksonville, FL April 2015 to Present Conducted daily system administration, maintenance, and monitoring tasks on Linux, Unix and Windows terminals.  Executed vulnerability assessment and applied necessary software patches and hot-fixes to both unclassified and classified systems, ensuring maximum availability and development of a stringent security posture.  Ensured baseline images were compliant with DISA Standard Implementation Guides (STIGs), had the latest approved patches and had been scanned and authorized for use.  • Managed UNIX OS for a terminal delivering critical message traffic to the Naval Submarine Fleet, bolstering security of national assets around the globe.  • Led company-wide initiative toward the implementation of cyber security upgrades necessary to maintain proper security posture in accordance with the Risk Management Framework (RMF), which requires System Categorization, Security Control Selection, Implementation, Assessment, Authorization and Continuous Monitoring.  • Coordinated and led the execution of a network wide software baseline deployment of over 50 workstations, routers, and switches directly improving security compliance.  • Supervised asset management, utilization, vendor management, and maintenance of all technology assets.  • Performed management and maintenance functions including inventory control of over 1,000 IT assets, software and configuration management and user training.  • Led 5 personnel in daily operations including managing and maintaining SIPRNET and NIPRNET networks for over 5,000 users, systems management operations and security architecture.  • Managed and developed domains, organizational units, groups, user accounts and software as Navy Multiband Terminal (NMT) and Nova Information Exchange Terminal (NIXT) Security Officer. IT Project Manager Naval Telecommunications Area Master Station Atlantic Detachment Jacksonville - Jacksonville, FL September 2014 to Present • Provided reliability and poise in a fast-paced environment while planning, coordinating, documenting, and reporting on enterprise-level IT projects in a fast paced environment.  • Led a team of 25 employees in the administering of telecommunications system services involving more than 450 mission critical voice and data circuits.  • Trained and assisted piers and subordinates in planning, coordinating, and reporting on enterprise-level IT projects;  • Delivered a branded experience by communicating the United States Navy core values and ethics.  • Supervised and trained assigned staff, made employment and discipline recommendations, and coordinated work assignments.  • Supervised implementation and maintenance of technology support equipment for U.S. Naval, Joint, Inter-Agency and Coalition operating forces.  • Monitored, evaluated, and analyzed service request statistics and provides reports to executive level management, including maps, charts and daily brief on trend analysis.  • Established network documentation procedures to include network topology diagrams (DISA block diagrams), document server roles and IP addresses, change logs and passwords.  • Implemented the use of Assured Compliance Assessment Solution (ACAS) on Base Communications Office (BCO) equipment for over 30 organizations on NAS Jacksonville. Education A.A.S. in Computer Science Florida State College at Jacksonville - Jacksonville, FL 2020 A + Certification Florida State College at Jacksonville - Jacksonville, FL 2018 Skills SECURITY (3 years), SYSTEM ADMINISTRATION (3 years), CYBER SECURITY (3 years), PROJECT PLANNING, RISK MANAGEMENT (3 years), Compliance, It Security, Information Security Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ January 2015 to January 2021 Additional Information Skills    Data Analysis System Administration  Enterprise Level Networks Project Planning  Risk Management Framework  Cyber Security  Strong Communication Skills  Security Policy Implementation