Senior Systems Administrator/Network Support Senior Systems Administrator/Network Support Senior Systems Administrator/Network Support - C21 INVESTMENTS Camas, WA Work Experience Senior Systems Administrator/Network Support C21 INVESTMENTS - Portland, OR April 2019 to Present Recruited to provide support, implement automation and reduce IT operating budget.  Windows 10 Pro; Windows Server 2019; Mac OSX, AWS, Hyper-V  • Responsible for all facets of IT, including the architecture, installation, administration, and support of all cloud computing, end-user devices, firewalls, network infrastructure and servers, including creating a documentation library with training materials and guides for technical engineers and non-technical end users.  • Migrated several Office 365 and G-Suite accounts from acquisitions into a single Office 365 tenant account while maintaining the availability of the source domains in a staged migration.  • Reduced monthly IT operating expenses by over 60% by  ? Resizing AWS resources, bring key workloads inhouse, and eliminating unnecessary instances.  ? Removing redundant Office 365 and G-Suite licensing and assigning proper Office 365 licenses. Systems/Network Engineer RADCOMP TECHNOLOGIES - White Salmon, WA July 2017 to March 2019 White Salmon, WA 7/2017 to 3/2019  A Managed Services Provider assisting clients with 24/7/365 active monitoring and support in a variety of industries across the country.  Systems/Network Engineer (Level 3 Support)  Brought on to provide senior level solutions, expertise, and mentoring in a variety of technical disciplines for their client base. IT Services Engineer VESTA CORPORATION - Tigard, OR May 2016 to June 2017 Recruited to provide 2nd & 3rd level desktop support in a diverse and fast-paced environment.  • Enterprise Messaging: Administers a mixed Exchange 2010, Office 365, and Google GMail email environment serving 200 users in the United States and Europe.  • Productivity and Collaboration: Administers Office 365 and Google Apps/G-Suite online productivity suites, including user account provisioning, group maintenance and automation.  • End-user Configuration Management: Administers Microsoft Systems Center Configuration Manager for the end-user desktop environment, including system and application patching, system inventory, desktop image creation and maintenance, and application packaging.  • AD Administration: Administers Active Directory, including user account provisioning/deprovisioning, group provisioning and maintenance, Group Policy Object creation and maintenance, and automation.  • Desktop Hardware: Manages desktop hardware for the Oregon offices, including operating system installation, upgrades, and repairs.  • Virtual Desktop Infrastructure: Manages VMWare-based VDI solution used by off-shore development and QA teams.  • Server Administration: Manages internal facing servers used by corporate staff running Windows Server 2008 through Windows Server 2012r2. IT Security Consultant APEX SYSTEMS - Minneapolis, MN May 2015 to May 2016 at UnitedHealth Group  Develops automated user provisioning solutions for Access Administration Problem Management team.    • Served as a Subject Matter Expert (SME) for various enterprise automated provisioning solutions.  • Worked with Business as well as IT teams to gather and properly document requirements.  • Developed scripting solutions for streamlining provisioning processes for various back-end systems.  • Documented business and technical processes surrounding user access provisioning and identity management.  • Performed user acceptance testing (UAT) for provisioning system development.  • Conducted quality assurance (QA) on work performed within the team. Senior Systems Administrator CAPELLA EDUCATION COMPANY - Minneapolis, MN August 2011 to April 2015 Minneapolis, MN 8/2011 to 4/2015  A pioneer in developing high-quality, professionally aligned online degree programs for adults.  Senior Systems Administrator  Recruited to provide 3rd level support to Windows Operations team.    • Develop Automation Solutions: Created Automation solutions for Windows Server Inventory, Active Directory, Reporting, Identity Management, and Security Audits.  • Created CMDB: Designed and implemented a custom configuration management database (CMDB) to track status of all servers, including owners and applications, and implement functionality to aid first responder duties for on-call support of the Windows Operation team.  • Technical Design & Engineer for Identity Management Solution: Designed and implemented the Windows-facing components on the Gateway Identity Management System, including Key Store and PKI for end-to-end encryption between internal and vendor systems, Active Directory design and management, and password synchronization with Unix systems and additional 3rd-party applications.  • Implemented Varonis Data Governance Suite: Created, Designed and Implemented the Access Approval Request Tracking System (AART). This was used to track all file server requests, including owners, and approvers.  • Technical Evaluation and Application Administration: Research and review software and applications being brought into the environment and evaluate for requirements, identify issues, and create implementation plans, and ongoing administration of applications. Examples: Lighthouse Gateway, HP/Autonomy TeamSite, HP Quality Center, Capella Visitor Center, MS Lync, and Varonis Data Governance Suite.  • Updated Legacy Web Infrastructure: Updated legacy IIS systems to Windows 2012/IIS 8/8.5. Implemented F5 firewall, traffic shaping policies, and load balancing for customer-facing web applications. Systems Insight Manager, HP OpenView, HP Service Desk, HP Service Manager TECHNOLOGY SNAPSHOT 2012 to 2014 Programming, Database & Automation Experience: SQL Server 2008/2012/2014/2016, Data Transformation Services & SQL Server Integration Services, VBScript, JavaScript, ASP, VB.Net, C#.Net, ASP.Net, WMI, PowerShell    Systems: Windows 7/10; Server 2008/Server 2012/Server 2016/Server 2019; Hyper-V; VMWare V-Sphere    Messaging: Microsoft Exchange/Outlook, Office 365, Google Apps    Enterprise Applications: Systems Insight Manager, HP OpenView, HP Service Desk, HP Service Manager, HP Server Automation, HP Operations Orchestration, Altiris Notification Solution, Altiris Deployment Solution, MS Office, Outlook, Microsoft Systems Center, HP Quality Center, Varonis Data Governance Suite, Active Directory, Azure, Amazon Web Services Customer Service Office 365 and Google Apps 2010 to 2013 • Messaging: Exchange 2007, 2010/2013, Office 365, & Google Apps support, administration, & troubleshooting. Migrations, including meeting with business partners and identifying priorities to ensure a successful migration to Office 365 and Google Apps.  Additional Responsibilities:  • Customer Service: Meet with clients regarding current issues and/or new service requests, and develop solutions for current issues. Working with the customer to plan for future projects, including any budgetary items to be aware of for system enhancements.  • Documentation: Create and update documentation to be used to support clients and identify opportunities for process improvement.  • Lifecycle Management: Assist Clients with lifecycle management, including product recommendations for new purchases and upgrades, and decommissioning old equipment.  • Mentoring: Working with junior staff to expand their technical knowledge and supply them with the tools to provide better customer support. Technical Support Consultant UnitedHealth Group - Plymouth, MN March 2007 to August 2011 Recruited to automate Windows Server Support Team Operations tasks.    • Process Automation: Automated numerous manual processes with a variety of tools and techniques. Examples include scripts to speed up manual processing to in-depth client/server tools with web interfaces and back-end SQL databases. One example is the UPD Migration Script used to interrogate print queue configurations and create new print queues based on updated print drivers. This implementation saved the department approximately 2,000 hours of time that it would have required to manually complete the work and eliminated possible variation and errors that would have resulted in increased helpdesk calls.    • Server Checkout: Developed a web-based application to query servers and report on standards compliance. The tool is used by the Server Build and Operational Readiness teams check that a newly-built server meets standards before server can be moved into production. It is also used by the Server Support and Operations team to troubleshoot server issues. The tool reduced "checkout time" from over an hour to a few minutes and reduce the average time for a server in the checkout phase from over five days to one day.    • Printer Locator website: Developed web-based tool used by 100,000 end users to easily and effortlessly locate and install print queues. This tool consists of a script that inventories over 10,000 print queues on 300 print servers, a SQL database that houses the inventory, and web interface that allows the end user to find and connect to any of the available queues near them. It has been estimated to have saved thousands of hours of helpdesk and desktop support time during the life of the tool and the data gathered by the process has saved other projects hundreds of hours of time it would have required for them to otherwise gather the data.    • Technical Training: Developed training for PowerShell scripting and presented to Operations team. Solutions Developer / Senior Technical Support Analyst Security and Vulnerability Assessment June 2004 to March 2007 Recruited into developer role to create tools to automate desktop support processes. Developed large scale solutions utilized by 300 desktop support technicians to support 80,000 end users across the U.S. and worldwide.  • Security and Vulnerability Assessment: Developed scripts and associated database to scan the desktop environment to determine vulnerability of unpatched systems. Developed tools to automatically install required patches on managed systems.  • Build Automation: Automated and improved desktop build process using Altiris Deployment Solution.  • Metrics and Reporting: Developed and maintained a web-based tool for upper management to view staffing ratios and other metrics in real time and displaying the information in configurable charts and graphs saving 40 hours of work per month previously required for the task.  • Desktop Support Information Portal: Developed and maintained web-based tool for desktop support that used multiple data sources from different departments and aggregated the data in an easy-to-use interface for desktop support and helpdesk technicians to quickly get any/all information they needed about a device, an end user, site, network subnet, or server.  • Application Scripting/Packaging: Created and packaged custom installation scripts for hundreds of applications to ease complexity and reduce variation for the desktop support technicians.  • Provide 3rd level support for desktop support technicians. Consultant - UnitedHealth Group Server Engineer IT Department February 2002 to June 2004 Asked by UHG Senior Manager to step into Server Engineer role in IT Department providing 24/7 support for 1,600 servers across the U.S. and internationally. Enhanced availability and stability of Windows Server environment with server discovery/control, configuration management, security vulnerability management and OEM hardware maintenance.    • Migration: Key Contributor Novel-to-Windows server migration for 40,000 employees. Automated the creation of thousands of global groups (10,000+ people). Streamlined process (scripting, feed file, website) saving 3-person team 3 months of work. Created automated processes for moving groups, placing owners on groups, and updating UnitedHealth Group's propriety security tracking database. Reduced the number of man hours required on a migration implementation by 60%.  • Technology Innovation: Initiated Central Repository and launched website to facilitate 50 desktop technicians' data storage troubleshooting efforts. Created web-based document repository that allowed for easy sorting and full-text searching of documents on the website before SharePoint. Enabled pre-SharePoint software reporting and upgrades still in place. Created automated processes to install virus patches to 800 servers in various locations in the United States. Reduced the number of engineers required to do patch management from twenty engineers down to a team of three. Also, avoided potential costs of man power and hardware replacement due to virus outbreaks. Developed various scripts to inventory the server environment and update server settings as required. Automated placing user ID's into global groups in an NT 4.0 and Active Directory environment.    • Process Improvement: Created new work submission and new automated intake process for security checks and balances. Slashed 10-15 minutes off each request (averaged 500 requests per month).    • Project Lifecycle: Promoted to serve on Lifecycle Management Team handling patch management on 600 global servers throughout the U.S., India and Jamaica. Ensured against security vulnerabilities. Created scripts and feed files cutting 40+ work hours a month. Communicated with managers/vice presidents, gaining buy-in on technical initiatives.  TECHNOLOGY, EDUCATION & TRAINING ADDENDUM Education Certificate in Network Administration/MCSE Hamilton College - Mason City, IA September 1987 to April 1998 Skills Active directory, Exchange, Iis, Virtualization, C#, Html, Javascript, Scripting, Vb.net, Vbscript, Xml, Sql server, Sql, Asp, Identity management, Process improvement, System Administrator, Vmware, System Admin, System Admin, SCCM, System Administrator Certifications/Licenses MCSE April 1998 to Present