Sr. Security Analyst Sr. <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Sr. Security Analyst - LONG TERM EMPLOYMENT Manlius, NY • Innovative and results-driven executive with more than 20 years of experience in project management, strategic planning, and implementation. Responsible for managing multiple software projects simultaneously. Well-versed in all aspects of the SDLC and governance, risk and compliance. Strong understanding of server hardware and operating systems (Microsoft, Linux), email technologies and protocols (Exchange, SMTP, POP3, IMAP, LDAP), advanced networking concepts and fundamentals, and VPN and VoIP technologies  • Possess technical and academic experience in business management, auditing, compliance monitoring, configuring, testing and securing IT networks, web applications and endpoints.  • Extensive knowledge of ITIL governance and control processes and procedures.  • Extensive experience in building, mentoring, and managing technical and training teams, subject matter experts, and operational staff. Dedicated team player with strong interpersonal and communication skills.  • Experienced in Call Center telephony solutions (e.g., SILVA, LogMeIn Rescue)  • Defines and delivers software that drives high customer satisfaction, revenue targets and business results. Develops strategies to collect and integrate customer feedback into product plans as well as identifying market trends.  • Experience in using active directory and making technical configuration changes on backend systems without disruption.  • Well-versed in broadly applicable laws, standards, and regulations (e.g., SOX, PCI DSS) as well as industry-specific guidelines and requirements (e.g., FISMA, FINRA rules and guidance, NERC standards, HIPPA, HITECH).  • Sr. Cyber Security/Threat Analyst proficient in recommending, implementing, and assessing security controls (e.g., NIST 800-53, and Center for Internet Security (CIC) 20 Critical Security Controls) and developing systems-specific security documentation and reports. Work Experience Sr. Security Analyst LONG TERM EMPLOYMENT June 2018 to Present • Assurance Team: Primary role to conduct IT security assessments to determine if IT controls are implemented effectively, assist others in understanding the compliance and regulatory environment, improve security processes and assist in audits. Main accomplishments:  ? Provided significant support during PwC Audit of Privileged Accounts - analysis was done on 72 privileged accounts of SOX systems and included interviewing the privileged account owners and authorized account users (developers in particular) in regards to approximately 100 change requests made to access their accounts. Review of all the SILVA change request tickets and emails related to those requests was done to determine whether the proper change management ticketing and approval process was followed. Detailed analysis of thousands of SIEM logs and server logs for any improper access was also done. Gap analysis of the Change Management Process and the Privileged account access was the outcome of the analysis. Provided results to senior management including CISO. Positive outcome to Audit resulted.  ? Developed 15 assessment questionnaires to cover future assessments of such things as the network environment, software and firmware, mobile device use, firewalls, servers, hardware and software asset inventory, email and web browsers.  ? Conducted comparison of compliance requirements for planned organizational projects against several methodologies and requirements, to include NYSDFS, CIS, NIST, and ISO27001.  ? Reviewed CISCO firewall rules for protection of the environment both on-site and offsite.  ? Analyzed the use of RSA Archer IT & Security Risk Management as a tool for use in supporting the Assurance Team to become more streamlined, efficient, error free, by removing the data and manual processes.  • Risk Assessment Team: Primary role to assist the 2018 Criticality Assessment Team that distributed approximately 403 Criticality Assessment Questionnaires for 2018. Held over 50 meetings with System owners, managers and IT SMEs to describe the process for filling out the questionnaires and help them complete them by the deadline.  • Archer Implementation Team: Lead the import of over 1000 data records into Archer's Issue Management Module (including Findings, Remediation Plans, Remediation Plan Milestones, and Risk Acceptances. Additionally imported Contact and Comment records associated with the Findings). Imported into UAT environment and conducted UAT testing and troubleshooting of issues found. Provided end-user support and system administration support as necessary.  • Analyzed options for ISF IRAM2 Implementation (Assistant tools and SureCloud Risk Manager)  • Provided executive level program management and consulting services under the Census Bureau Security Program and explained solutions to Senior Management in clear and concise terms to enable them to make informed decisions on resource allocation. Help Desk Technical support (part-time) Fayetteville Free Library - New York, NY November 2017 to Present Supported the FFL as a Part Time Fabrication Lab technical assistant - assisting customers in the use of the lab equipment, including 3D printers, Virtual Reality station, circuitry tools, laser cutters (metal, vinyl, and glass), sewing machines, etc. Help schedule machine usage and complete monetary transactions for equipment usage and materials. Sr. Security Consultant/Business Systems Analyst SecureNick, LLC August 2014 to Present Owner/manager of small business created in 2014 to provide management consulting services in networking and IT security dedicated to protecting client assets to reduce loss of revenue. Clients include, law firms, financial institutions (e.g., First Financial Group), private business (e.g., collaboration software vendor, energy trading company, law firms), and non-profits (e.g., Airforce Association).  • As a senior consultant, participate in pre-sales meetings to understand client's business objectives and discuss related services offerings and capabilities.  • Assist companies developing proprietary software in all aspects of the SDLC from gathering requirements, instilling security early-on in the development phase, through testing, and deployment. Utilize issue-tracking and project management systems for defect-tracking, project management and reporting.  • Support institutions in meeting regulatory and privacy compliance management goals: identify the laws, rules, codes and standards applicable to their operating environment, operationalize compliance obligations into daily processes and procedures, monitor compliance controls, compliance reporting internally and externally. Help companies to understand what regulations, policies and obligations are applicable to them globally or at the site level, and makes changes to applicable environmental, health and safety regulations, helping eliminate compliance deviations and non-compliance risks.  • Utilize the NIST Cybersecurity Framework (NIST CSF) especially NIST Special Publications (NIST SP 800-53 and 800 53A for the selection, implementation and assessment of managerial, technical and physical security controls, NIST SP 800-61 for the review of Incident Response plans and policies of private sector clients based on experience with government agencies  • Supports developers in the areas of secure coding practices, vulnerability assessments, and remediation once vulnerabilities are found. Once vulnerabilities were discovered, administered and advanced trouble shooting of solutions. These solutions have entailed better monitoring (e.g., purchasing a SIEM product, better patching and network maintenance (e.g., to disable non-necessary ports, hosts on the network, or unused accounts (e.g., guest or employees who have left the organization no matter what the reason, utilizing the principal of least privilege, changing default passwords, etc.)  • For ongoing engagements, maintain a record of progress, including managing the schedule of technical deliverables, budgets and deliverable schedule. Document findings in interim and final reports for subsequent discussion with senior management.  • Review and utilize proprietary and open source ERP software such as Postbooks, SAP and Delteck.  • Working knowledge of Active Directory and basic AD administration.  • Troubleshoot hardware and software issues in person, remotely and via the phone.  • On completion of a project, develop project post-mortems to inform process improvements which mitigate future risks and promote best practices. VOLUNTEER Air Force Association - Arlington, VA September 2016 to December 2016 Help Desk Technical support (part-time)  • Supported the AFA as a Part Time SOC Help Desk technical assistant for the annual Cyber Patriot Warrior Competition among approximately 3,300 HS and Middle School teams both from the US and Canada and US bases in Europe. Operations Assistant (Part Time) Geek Squad - Arlington, VA September 2015 to December 2016 Handled service traffic, making sure clients get their issues assessed and are connected with the best service for their tech problem. Quickly and accurately managed the inbound and outbound phone calls and successfully managed the escalation process with third party vendors and internal service center repairs. Managed shipping and receiving in addition to performing basic repairs and software installations. Business Consultant Salient Federal Solutions - Fairfax, VA November 2012 to January 2013 • Maintained the Security Policy for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) Office for Law Enforcement (OLE) Wide Area Network (WAN).  • Applied knowledge of FISMA Compliance and NIST guidelines including Risk Management Framework, SP 800-53, and SP-800-53A. Senior Information System Security Analyst Avalon Global Solutions September 2011 to November 2012 • Supported the US DOT Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA) in maintaining and improving their IT Security Program.  • Conducted IT Audit of DOT FMCSA systems, assessing the controls in NIST SP 800-53 using the suggested testing methods in NIST SP 800-53A.  • Presented recommendations to Senior Management in non-technical terms so that the employees could make informed decisions on how to optimally allocate resources. 7 Delta, Inc - Fulton, MD December 2011 to March 2012 Information Security/ IT Auditing Professional  • At 7 Delta, led the architecture, design, implementation, support and evaluation of security-focused tools for the Department of Veterans Affairs.  • Assisted in a new initiative to enable veterans to easily access their health benefits and profile information. Sr. Security Analyst Deloitte & Touche, Ltd., VA February 2010 to February 2011 • Led a team of security analysts in conducting IT audits and assessments on Census Bureau information systems. The results of audits and assessments helped Senior Management with the IT Security Assessment and Authorization (A&A) process.  • Provided executive level program management and consulting services under the Census Bureau Security Program and explained solutions to Senior Management in clear and concise terms to enable them to make informed decisions on resource allocation.  • Ensured that Census Bureau applications and general support systems remained on-line during an extremely critical timeframe and allowed the Bureau to have confidence in the high availability, integrity, and confidentiality of its data. Senior Security Analyst Radius Technology Group, Inc April 2008 to January 2010 Provided project oversight and supported broad government objectives and cross-cutting initiatives as a member of the security leadership team and served as Lead Security Analyst for five major Department of Labor Wage Hour Division (WHD) Information systems. several senior positions SRA International, Inc./Marasco Newton Group (MNG), Ltd October 1991 to February 2008 at this leading environmental management consulting firm spanning over a period of 17 years. Some career highlights at SRA International include:  • Responsibility for project oversight and new business development in the areas of systems development and training, help desk management, IT security policy development, and green energy initiatives.  • Mentoring and project management of multi-disciplinary teams and development of business plans and new business initiatives. Hiring and management of junior staff and team leaders for nation-wide training projects.  • Evaluation of business progress against targets and reporting to Senior Management. Review of technical deliverables for quality and accuracy.  • Assistance in proposal-writing efforts to obtain additional work in the areas of EnergyStar implementation, EPA systems analysis and design, big data aggregation, training, testing and documentation of EPA systems.  • Coordination of new business efforts by developing strategies based on customer research, creating marketing materials, drafting technical components of proposals, and working with other technical experts to craft technical proposal responses. Senior Systems Security Analyst/ IT Auditing/Requirements Analyst SRA International, Inc./Marasco Newton Group (MNG), Ltd 2000 to 2008 • Led the assessment of the USDA Forest Service financially significant General Support Systems and Major Applications in preparation for an IT Audit.  • Responsible for evaluating the design and documentation of updates necessary to enhance that Department procedures corresponded to mandatory controls.  • Held leadership role in the EPA's IT security program which led to an appointment as Systems Security Officer for EPA's Information system, ACRES, in support of the Brownfields program. Work Assignment Manager/Senior IT Trainer & Requirements Analyst 1991 to 2000 Work Assignment Manager SRA International, Inc./Marasco Newton Group (MNG), Ltd April 1999 to May 1999 • Set up support of EPA Applications and provided technical support as well as management of the team. Traveled to five EPA regions to train a total of approximately 75 users on the EPA Change Management policy and system usage during 4/99 and 5/99.  • Work Assignment Manager in charge of converting EPA personnel to the use of Lotus Notes Version 5.0 for e-mail and calendar scheduling. senior IT Trainer SRA International, Inc./Marasco Newton Group (MNG), Ltd January 1998 to October 1998 nation-wide in the EPA's national effort to deploy the EPA web-based application WasteLAN, to its regional personnel. Work Assignment manager in the implementation of another EPA IT platform February 1997 to January 1998 CERCLIS 3; led the training of 880 users between February 1997 and January 1998.  • Analyzed EPA information systems (e.g., gathered user requirements, conducted data modeling efforts, developed test plans and conducted testing, developed user and system administration documentation). Utilized issue-tracking and reporting software such as IBM Rational Clear Quest and Crystal Reports.  • Worked with teams of software and database developers to review requirements, timelines, and create test plans.  • Assisted with logistics for technical teams, including making travel arrangements.    SHORT TERM CONSULTING ASSIGNMENTS Education MS in Information Systems George Mason University - Fairfax, VA 1999 BS in Finance and International Management Georgetown University - Washington, DC 1990 Skills Security, Active Directory, testing, access, Cisco, HTML, training, SQL Certifications/Licenses CISSP March 2007 to February 2013