Information Assurance Analyst Information Assurance <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Cyber Security Risk Consultant - Deloitte Silver Spring, MD Samuel has extensive background and experience in Federal Information Security Management, IT infrastructures and ensuring secure design, engineering, deployment, operations, and maintenance of large information systems, enterprise networks, and data centers. He has experience specializing in risk assessment, system controls, auditing policies and procedures, change management, testing and business processes verification and validation. He also has hands-on experience in vulnerability assessment, implementation of the Plans of Actions and Milestones / Corrective Action Plans, as well as remediation of the documented threats and vulnerabilities. A subject matter expert in the field of risk-based Certification and Accreditation using various flavors of the State, Federal, as well as International Cyber Security frameworks (e.g. NIST RMF, FedRAMP, ISO 27001, etc.) Very knowledgeable of industry standards and proven track record of implementing the necessary controls to ensure compliance. Dedicated to maintaining a reputation built on quality, service, and uncompromising ethics. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Information Assurance Analyst EY - Virginia Present • Conduct comprehensive assessment of the management, operational, technical and privacy security employed within or inherited by an Information System to determine the overall effectiveness of the control.  • Provide assessment of the severity of weakness or deficiencies discovered in the Information System and its environment of operation and recommend corrective actions to address identified vulnerabilities.  • Assess security and privacy controls using the NIST SP 800-53A Rev4 publication guideline.  • Advice the Agency on any assessment and authorization issues.  • Review security policy documents and make recommendations on documentation compliant.  • Review and approve the SSP  • Prepare final Security Assessment Report (SAR) containing the results and findings from the assessment.  • Review the Plan of Action and Milestone (POA&M) with identified weaknesses, timelines, milestones and point of contacts for each IS based on findings and recommendations from the SAR IT Security Analyst ICF International - Rockville, MD April 2013 to March 2015 • Assess the system for risk exposure for threats and vulnerabilities on an Enterprise level.  • Identify, analyze and develop mitigation guidance for vulnerabilities.  • Prioritize newly identified vulnerabilities based upon severity, potential operation impacts, exploitation, and mitigation strategies.  • Understand, review and interpret scan results.  • Apply FISMA compliance to determine the effectiveness of implemented security measures and ensure adequacy in the security of business assets.  • Utilize NIST SP 800 series to identify threats and vulnerabilities and recommend pertinent security controls to mitigate the occurrence of future threats and vulnerabilities imposed on a business’ network. IT Security Analyst KPMG - Washington, DC April 2012 to March 2013 • Provided expertise on technical services including all aspects of information security   • Conduct IT risk assessments to identify system threats  • Assessed system design and security posture as well as advising information security compliance with FISMA and NIST SP 800-53 controls.  • Conducted security control assessments to assess the adequacy of management, operation privacy, and technical security controls implemented  • Performed maintenance and advanced configuration of systems in order to protect systems from emerging cyber threats.  • Conducted forensic traffic logs analysis to isolate issues and respond to analyst alerts Education Bachelor of Science in Information Systems Bowie State University - Bowie, MD August 2007 to April 2011 Additional Information * Risk Assessment/Management * Continuous Monitoring * Policy/Procedure  * Cyber Security and Privacy * Security Assessment & Authorization * Information Assurance  * IT Security Compliance * Incident Response * Disaster Recovery