Consultant Consultant Consultant - Venza Group, Inc Charlotte, NC Work Experience Consultant Venza Group, Inc - Raleigh, NC March 2019 to Present Risk Compliance & Audit Analyst  ? Analyze HIPAA and PCI DSS readiness and perform gap analyses for Hospitality and Hospital clients  ? Capture thorough notes and visuals, as well as be able to answer HIPAA PII and PCI DSS-related questions  ? Perform Risk assessments and on-site audits as requested and/or required  ? Identify information security requirements through collection and translation of disparate information sources into actionable control language in support of current and proposed governing citations.  ? Organize resources to assess technical, physical, and administrative controls. Identify and analyze risks to determine the adequacy of existing security controls. The assessment process includes interviewing personnel, reviewing and testing security controls, evaluating audit reports, vulnerability scans and penetration test results.  ? Responsible for the overall effectiveness of the Information Security program, to include but not limited to, threat and vulnerability, internal controls, business continuity planning, security awareness training, security administration, audit tracking, policies and program execution Senior Internal Auditor TEKsystems, Inc - Morrisville, NC April 2018 to February 2019 Manage the Cisco Global Certification readiness program for internal application teams  ? Executed and performed readiness testing to validate key controls within the IT infrastructure  ? Performed risk assessments to assess vulnerabilities and tracking risk associated with the protection of privacy information  ? Performed penetration testing and vulnerability scanning to assess corporate network and applications for potential threats  ? Managed SOC1 and SOC2 control requirements as per Internal and External client requirements  ? Developed the risk mitigation action plans by engaging with the technology teams, security architecture, application and engineering teams Senior Internal Auditor PNC Bank, Inc - Charlotte, NC August 2017 to March 2018 Created audit work plan; to include scope, objectives, testing of key controls and responsible for making recommendations after audits are conducted  ? Executed procedures supporting external & internal controls, business processes, and IT processes  ? Assessed and effectively managed risks associated with business objectives and activities to ensure they align with the bank's risk appetite statements and risk management framework  ? Knowledge of and ability to utilize various tools, techniques and processes for gathering and reporting privacy and security data information as required by various compliance frameworks  ? Performs security testing to discover vulnerabilities within applications automated tools and leverages Performs remediation validation review to ensure security vulnerabilities previously identified have been appropriately addressed  ? Created compliance (SAAS) reporting for SOC2 control requirements Consultant Wells Fargo, Inc - Charlotte, NC March 2017 to July 2017 IT Auditor/System Security Analyst (Department: Enterprise Risk Management)  ? Created compliance (SAAS) reporting for both SOC1 and SOC2 documented requirements  ? Supported International Environment Risk function and networks for Canada and Latin America regions  ? Managed and used HEAT ticketing system application to respond to staff help request and service  ? Work with regional stakeholders to create monthly risk appetite statements  ? Creation of monthly metrics reporting, specific to internal audit requirements  ? Environments supported included: Windows, UNIX, Linux and AS/400  ? Update Enterprise Risk Management team regarding any discrepancies from source reporting  ? Perform data analyst, data loss prevention, and encryption of key data for legal entities outside US  ? Performing international SOX and RCSA audits, working directly with internal and external audit  ? Assist Control Owners with benchmarking of security policies against best practices and standard Remote Consultant State of North Dakota Health & Human Services October 2016 to February 2017 Audit Security Project Leader  ? Responsible for creating and executing incident response plans, processes, procedures and performing root cause evaluations for the application and server environment  ? Analyze, tests, and certify system servers and perform reviews of business requirements and functional specifications and procedural documentation  ? Created HIPAA and PCI policy documentation and testing procedure processes  ? Created process for performing and scheduling security scanning using Nessus scanning tool  ? Implement NIST 800-53 compliance framework standards for ACA health services department; to include Medicaid, Medicare and Food assistance programs  ? Environments supported included: Windows, UNIX, Linux and AS/400  ? Review current change management roles, responsibilities and process diagrams to ensure MARS 2.0 compliance standards are being administered and followed to comply with federal regulations Consultant Wells Fargo, Inc - Raleigh, NC October 2015 to August 2016 Operational Risk Consultant 3 (Department: Technology & Operations Group)  ? Conduct quality assurance application reviews for SOX DR/BCP recoverability project  ? Analyzes, tests, and certify application specific software and perform reviews of business requirements and functional specification documents  ? Supported various Line of Business identifying, assessing, mitigating and managing information security risks  ? Performed initial setup of Qualysguard scanning tool and ongoing maintenance of web applications  ? Created process narratives that detail process control mapping of application controls  ? Conduct testing and review of applications based upon SOX and NIST 800-53 control requirements  ? Created compliance (SAAS) reporting for both SOC1 and SOC2 control requirements  ? Assist Control Owners with benchmarking of security policies against best practices and standard Remote Consultant United Healthcare Group, Inc October 2014 to September 2015 Audit &Security Consultant (Department: Controls Compliance)  ? Identify key risks (actual and emerging) within IT processes and controls  ? Environments supported included: Windows, UNIX, Linux, Cloud, AIX and AS/400  ? Project focal point includes incorporating NIST 800-53 framework, MARS 2.0 and IRS 1075 control/requirements into current system environments and network infrastructure  ? Created HIPAA and PCI policy documentation and testing procedure processes  ? Managed and used HEAT ticketing system application to respond to staff help request and service  ? Installation of the latest OS patches/STIGS as per applicable applications/OS platforms  ? Assess application and infrastructure systems with the goal of establishing stronger system security  ? Splunk duties included administration and development efforts as it relates to application/machine data, troubleshooting, reporting, custom queries, dashboards, and security roles administration  ? Develop process narratives after assessing applications, servers and existing IT frameworks Remote Consultant Dell, Inc June 2014 to October 2014 Information Security Analyst  ? Performed remediation scanning and risk assessments, along with utilizing CVSS scoring system  ? Assess vulnerabilities in response to new threats, existing threats and changes in threat vectors  ? Developed process and maintained classification for data recovery and discovery  Environments supported included: Windows, UNIX, Linux, Cloud and AS/400  ? Worked to complete and solve complex Splunk Integration challenges  ? Performed deployments to distributed systems for both Windows and Linux  ? Conducted server penetration testing using Qualys scanning tool  ? Supported and administered Active Directory and Centrify authenticating to Linux systems including administration, authentication, and integration  ? Developed documentation related to measuring security risk assessments for infrastructure, software, systems configuration and server vulnerability analysis Security Engineer (Consultant) University of North Carolina - Chapel Hill, NC January 2014 to May 2014 Created security reports after Qualys scanning reports are generated and reviewed  ? Standardized Splunk agent deployment, configuration and maintenance across a variety of UNIX and Windows platforms  ? Environments supported included: Windows and Linux  ? Develop and mentor other organizations on their use of Splunk  ? Performed workstation penetration testing using Identity Finder tool  ? Provided administrative support for cloud based network security compliance standards  ? Performed deployments to distributed systems for both Windows and Linux  ? Scanned Windows and Unix servers for sensitive data on a continually scheduled basis  ? Compliance reporting initiatives included, PII, PCI, FERPA, SOX and HIPAA Security Risk Consultant•(Consultant) HCL America, Inc - Cary, NC November 2012 to December 2013 Created compliance (SAAS) reporting for both SOC1 and SOC2 control requirements  ? Environments supported included: Windows, UNIX, Linux, Cloud, AIX and AS/400  ? Managed and used HEAT ticketing system application to respond to staff help request and service  ? Monthly reporting includes privilege access reporting, backup & recovery statistics and review of high priority items found during vulnerability scanning  ? Supported and administered Active Directory and Centrify authenticating to Linux systems including administration, authentication, and integration  ? Created HIPAA and PCI policy documentation and testing procedure processes  ? Installation of the latest OS patches/STIGS as per applicable applications/OS platforms  ? Performed SOX walkthrough of client server Citrix and Linux environment Information Security Compliance Manager IBM, Inc - Research Triangle Park, NC November 2011 to November 2012 Managed Cloud Enterprise backup and recovery data using IBM Tivoli Storage Manager (TSM)  ? Monitored and administered TSM application administrative processes  ? Network Security and database encryption configuration  ? Environments supported included: Windows, UNIX, Linux, Cloud, AIX and AS/400  ? Performed full IBM QRADAR installation setup as part of IBM alerting SIEM technology  ? Perform security assessments on all hardware and software being implemented into the Business Unit infrastructure to ensure compliance with security policy and standards  ? Monitor security mechanisms (audit trail, firewall, etc.) for compliance to security standards  ? Performed application security monitoring and penetration testing using Rational AppScan Security Risk Assessment Analyst (Consultant) USPS Corporate Office, Inc - Raleigh, NC 2010 to 2011 Notified the Global IS community of existing vulnerabilities in need of remediation  ? Ensured compliance of technology controls & policies are met  ? Performed all SOX, HIPAA and PCI-DSS testing  ? Performed deployments to distributed systems for both Windows and Linux  ? Setup programs for security event monitoring and user auditing  ? Senior level point of contact as part of (CERT) Computer Emergency Response Team  ? Logged and managed DLP incidents into USPS corporate Splunk SIEM database  ? Performed application security monitoring and penetration testing using HP Fortify Security Analyst/Internal Auditor (Consultant) Viacom MTV Networks, Inc - New York, NY 2007 to 2009 Implemented UNITY compliance tracking system  ? Developed security training program for offshore team  ? Managed and used HEAT ticketing system application to respond to staff help request and service  ? Ensured compliance of technology controls & policies are met  ? Conducted penetration testing for servers, applications and workstations  ? Created weekly reporting metrics for lines of business within VIACOM technology groups  ? Managed account provisioning for employee access to internal and external applications  ? Performed penetration testing using Rational Appscan IT Risk and Control Project Manager (Consultant) Flushing Savings Bank, Inc - New Hyde Park, NY 2007 to 2007 Coordinated BSA/AML risk assessments on quarterly basis  ? Performed BSA/AML data testing validation  ? Addressed quarterly audit findings with respective IT team  ? Performed SSO and privilege access request through Active Directory  ? Performed deployments to distributed systems for both Windows and Linux  ? Created monthly reporting metrics for various lines of business, including audit and risk committee  ? Conducted interviews with Process Owners to review process improvements and raise security awareness Global Compliance Officer (Corporate Investment Banking) Citigroup, Inc - New York, NY 2006 to 2007 US Derivatives & EMEA Global Marketing Operations  ? Gathered and summarized data centered around IT control effectiveness and compliance  ? Conducted weekly meetings with Control Owners to ensure compliance initiatives are being met  ? Served as sole backup & recovery specialist for Technology Infrastructure division  ? Performed SOX testing and risk assessments quarterly  ? Created audit draft summaries highlighting past and recent audit findings  ? Supported Internal and external audit effort both domestic and international Senior Change Management Deployment Specialist Citigroup, Inc - New York, NY 2004 to 2006 Technology Infrastructure Unit)  ? Performed deployments to distributed systems for both Windows and Linux  ? Developed testing process to monitor and report Remedy ticketing system  ? Served as sole backup & recovery specialist for Technology Infrastructure division  ? Developed scripting processes to automate tools geared for change management process  ? Assisted in the virtualization setup of networks to include large scale deployment and design for server, application and desktop virtualization and emerging cloud technologies (Xen & VMWare)  ? Performed and coordinated SOX testing and risk assessments  ? Managed change management process for Technology Infrastructure division Education Certification Wake Technical Community College - Varina, NC, US Course of Education Briarcliffe College - Bethpage, NY Course of Education Nassau Community College - Garden City, NY