IT Security Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Bowie, MD Work Experience IT Security Analyst BEST Links Foundations - Greenbelt, MD October 2014 to Present Assisted in guiding System Owners and ISSOs through Certification and Accreditation (C&A) Process, ensuring that Operational, management and technical security controls securing sensitive Security Systems are in place and being followed according to the Federal Guideline (NIST SP 800-53 and NIST 800-53A.).  Determined Security Categorizations using the FIPS 199 as a guide  Versed in the development of System Security Plans (SSP), Contingency Plans, Disaster Recovery Plans, Incident Response Plans/Training, and Configuration Management.  • Develop and conduct ST&E ( Security Test and Evaluation) according to NIST SP 800-53A and perform on-site security testing using vulnerability scanning tools such as Nessus.  Plans, System Security Checklists, Privacy Impact Assessments (PIA), Privacy Threshold Analysis (PTA), and System of Record Notice (SORN).   • Develop NIST-compliant vulnerability assessments, technical documentation, and Plans of Action and Milestone (POA&M), and address system weaknesses.  • Provide guidance and training to the system owner and ISSO on the validation process  Familiar with VMware and other Virtual Machine Applications.  Good communication and writing skills  Experienced working with NIST SP 800-53 rev 3 and rev 4 Cyber Security Analyst DIDo Trust Inc - Washington, DC July 2012 to September 2014 ? Worked with Certification and Accreditation team; performed risk assessment; updated System Security Plan (SSP), contingency plan (CP), Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA), and Plan of Actions and Milestones (POA&M)  ? Performed data gathering techniques (e.g. questionnaires, interviews and document reviews) in preparation for assembling C&A/A&A packages.  ? Updated Plan of Action & Milestones (POA&M) and Risk Assessment based on findings assessed through monthly updates.  • Oversee the preparation of a Comprehensive and Executive Certification & Accreditation (C&A) packages for submission to the Information Assurance Program Office for approval of an Authorization to Operate (ATO).   • Risk Management Framework (RMF) assessments and Continuous Monitoring: Performed RMF assessment on several different environments using both scanning tools and manual assessment. Assessment included initiating meetings with various System Owners and Information System Security Officers (ISSO), providing guidance of evidence needed for security controls, and documenting findings of assessment.  • Performed evaluation of policies, procedures, security scan results, and system settings in order to address controls that were deemed insufficient during Certification and Accreditation (C&A), RMF, and continuous monitoring.  • Document and Review security plans (SP), contingency plans (CP), contingency plan tests (CPT), privacy impact assessments (PIA), and risk assessment (RA) documents per NIST 800 guidelines for various government agencies.  Communicated effectively through written and verbal means to co-workers, subordinates and senior leadership Education Diploma in Basic Combat Training Course - Fort Jackson, SC 2015 to 2015 Bachelor's in Medical Technology (Major), Information Technology (Minor) University of Buea DIploma in Aircraft Structural Repair (15G) Course. - Fort Eustis, VA Skills Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel Spreadsheet, Nersus, DISA STIGS. Military Service Branch: Maryland National Guard Service Country: United States Rank: Specialist (E4) May 2015 to Present Aircraft structural repairer   • Aircraft Structural Repairer/ Performs repairs on aircraft structures.   • Repair/replace aircraft structural components according to drawings, blueprints, directives, technical manuals and safety procedures. Certifications/Licenses ?CompTIA Security+ in progress ?Certified Ethical Hacker in progress... Additional Information ? DoD Secret Clearance (Active),  ? DoE Public Trust “L” (Active),  ? United States Citizen,  ? Team Player, Quick learner, pays attention to detail, can work under stressful and unforeseen  circumstances,  ? Hold the 6 Army Values in very high esteem (Loyalty, Duty, Respect, Selfless Service, Honor, Integrity,  and Personal courage)