Analyst - IT Security <span class="hl">Analyst</span> - <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> Analyst - IT Security - Memorial Healthcare System Miami, FL Passionate Information Security Professional with notable success in strategizing for institutional security awareness and communication. Expertise in consulting with business units on effective security best practices. Excel at performing in-depth security assessments to evaluate compliance conditions with various regulations, laws, and standards. Experience in developing IT policies, procedures, guidelines, standards, and other documentation. Hands-on involvement in Vulnerability Management. Outstanding project and program leader skilled in managing, motivating and guiding teams. Able to thrive in fast-paced and challenging environments where accuracy and efficiency matter. Work Experience Analyst - IT Security Memorial Healthcare System - Miramar, FL September 2017 to Present • Operates within the Information Technology Security team, with primary emphasis on daily monitoring, investigations, along with interviews to gather information related to potential security breaches.  • Monitors, investigates, and reports incidents of suspicious activity or possible compromises to Manager, IT Security.  • Responsible for proactively analyzing events from privacy and security monitoring systems to identify potential threats, risk or breaches and takes the necessary approach to reduce their likelihood.  • Performs all procedures necessary to ensure the safety of information and assets from intentional or inadvertent access or destruction.  • Assists with implementation of counter-measures or mitigating controls.  • Provides input into tactical security initiatives and assists with maintaining Information Security Policies and Standards.  • Completes tasks designed to ensure security of the organization's systems and assets. IT Security Engineer University of Miami - Coral Gables, FL October 2013 to September 2017 • Information Security, Compliance, and Assurance  • Payment Card Industry (PCI) Professional  • Performed university-wide security assessments to evaluate compliance conditions with various regulations, laws and standards.  • Consulted with university entities and business units on effective security practices, and strategize on potential remediation efforts.  • Strategized for institutional security awareness and communication  ? Established formal security awareness program  ? Inaugurated University of Miami's free annual cybersecurity conference for over 1,000 South Florida Info. Sec. Professionals ($27,000 Budget - Sponsorship)  ? Instituted National Cyber Awareness Month program  ? Erected the University of Miami IT Security Website  • Developed IT policies, procedures, guidelines and standards  • Performed vulnerability scanning of enterprise assets  • Reviewed unsupported hardware/hard drive purchase and server access requests  • Monitored unauthorized access and inquires to payroll and financial systems  • Supervised Information Security Interns IT Intern Our Kids of Miami-Dade/Monroe County - Miami, FL June 2011 to August 2011 Internship Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd - Miramar, FL June 2010 to August 2010 Education Information Systems FIU The Chapman Graduate School of Business MSIS 2017 to Present The SANS Institute - Atlanta, GA May 2017 Master of Science in Information Systems in Information Systems Florida International University Miami December 2016 Information Sciences and Technology College of Information Sciences 2009 to 2013 Skills .NET (Less than 1 year), Microsoft Project (Less than 1 year), Microsoft SharePoint (Less than 1 year), Microsoft SQL Server (Less than 1 year), Microsoft Visio (Less than 1 year) Links http://kristatheodore.com Additional Information Skills  • Fluent in Haitian Creole  • Adobe Creative Cloud Suite  • Analyst's Notebook  • IBM Holosofx Workbench  • JCreator  • Microsoft Office  • Microsoft Project  • Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio  • Microsoft SharePoint  • Microsoft Visio  • Microsoft Visual Studio  • Qualys  • RapidMiner  • SQL Server Data Tools  • Tableau  • Teradata    Miami, FL  657.200.8605  kristatheodore@gmail.com  kristatheodore.com