IT Security Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Security Analyst - ING Financial Services New York, NY I have been working as a security analyst in the Financial and Banking Domains.I am looking for a contract in NY,NJ and CT areas.Please feel free to contact me at 917-822-1959 Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Security Analyst ING Financial Services May 2016 to Present Experienced with IA Provisioning life cycle, RBAC, ACL, IAA  ? Audit and identify the risk of privileged accounts like root and database (Oracle, Sybase) and mitigate the risk (IAM).  ? Improving visibility to trust relationship, which determines who has the privileges on an account and data security regulations (IAM).  ? Identify, triage and document the instances of vulnerability areas and devices using Nessus Vulnerability Scanner.  ? Schedule Penetration Test on the System/Applications to constantly monitor for Vulnerabilities.  ? Re-designee and Ensure IT controls of the environment are secure and meet the required SOX regulatory standards  ? Perform Periodic Dormancy & Audits/reviews on Application and Department Access Rights to Improve visibility and trust relationship.  ? Work with data owners and Leadership Teams to provide improved data protected reporting needs  ? Designee and provide workflows for developing reporting and Change Management using Service-Now  ? Worked on Incident Management / Problem Management / Change Management (Infrastructure/Application) and lead Change Advisory Boards (CAB) approvals IT Security Audit Intern Deutsche Bank 2015 to 2015 Assess security related production controls in lines with regulatory standards supporting IT and business processes and finding potential gaps and communicate the risks to key stakeholders.  ? Access Control, Access Management, Account Security, and work towards mapping them across the bank's environment  ? Liaise the FED (Federal Regulations of USA), USFRB, MAS (Monetary Authority of Singapore) and SOX regulators by providing required validation reports and compliance reports to close the compliance issues against application(s) by Auditing/validating the application  ? Administered Change Management practices for IT Controls. IT Project Coordinator CMS CORPORATIONS - IN July 2011 to November 2013 Coordinate and supervised daily activities of a team of five Developers and one Network Manager.  ? Managed software development projects for both internal and externally facing applications.  ? Collaborated with product owners, remote internal IT resources and offshore vendors to create a new product line for BI services to the healthcare industry. Education Computer Science MONTCLAIR STATE UNIVERSITY Business Administration LONDON SCHOOL OF BUSINESS AND COMPUTING - London Bachelors in Computer Science and Information and Technology JNTU Certifications/Licenses IT Security Analyst May 2017