Compliance and Security Analyst Compliance and <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Compliance and Security Analyst - NUTRISYSTEM INC • IT professional with 2+ years of overall experience in information Security.  • NIST Cybersecurity Framework: Implementing and enabling the use of the framework to establish a baseline to perform tasks like Access Management, Asset Management, Certification and Audit.  • Experience in application security, software development methodologies and OWASP Top 10 guidelines.  • Security expertise including knowledge on different security risk assessment frameworks NIST, standards (ISO27001/HITRUST/ITIL/Cobit), and act such as (HIPAA/GLBA) and PCI-DSS standards.  • Excellent knowledge in profile-based security, structural authorizations, Segregation of Duties (SOD), SAP Governance Risk and Compliance.  • Knowledge and understanding of different security products (web/email filtering, disk encryption, IDS/IPS, antivirus, DLP, firewall etc.) and tools like Aruvio and Archer.  • Performed Vendor Security and Risk Assessments and to identify Control Gaps, perform GAP analysis and Business Impact Analysis (BIA), plan to perform remediation.  • Liaison with IT Audit Preparedness and Remediation efforts, examining the SSAE 16 Audit report  • Maintenance of SAP security for various environments like R/3, ECC 6.0 & Governance Risk and Compliance (GRC 5.3) and SAP CUA (Central User Administration) integration with SAP ECC 6.0.  • Experienced in the areas of User administration, Role management, development, troubleshooting, testing and reports generation in Security environment in SAP.  • Expertise with gathering and analyzing business requirements; feasibility analysis and data collection/analysis during every project Work Experience Compliance and Security Analyst NUTRISYSTEM INC - Fort Washington, PA January 2017 to Present Environment: Aruvio Compliance Module  Nutrisystem Inc, headquartered in Fort Washington, Pennsylvania, is a commercial provider of weight loss products and services. Initially, the company offered weight loss counseling and products in brick and mortar centers. In 1999, the company moved to a direct-to-consumer business model, selling its products and programs on the Internet and through a call center via 1-800 numbers. Nutrisystem's programs have been sold on the QVC television home shopping network since 2001 and in Costco stores since 2009. The company entered the retail arena in 2012 with the launch of its "Everyday" line of breakfast and snack items in Kroger grocery stores. In 2013, Nutrisystem began selling its five-day "Jumpstart" line in Walmart stores.  • Achieves compliance for PCI and SOX by coordinating and managing the actions of team across the organization and being the primary liaison between internal/external auditors and all business stakeholders  • Identify and document security vulnerabilities and weaknesses in the environment such as unauthorized access potential, non-compliance with defined standards etc  • Assist in the development of information security policies, standards, procedures, checklists, guidelines using generally recognized security concepts tailored to meet the requirements of the organization  • Develop and/or maintain expertise in identifying security risks in the hardware, software and systems used by the organization  • Develop risk/vulnerability assessment programs and questionnaires to identify and/or address identified security risk  • Assist IT audit team to information technology assessments, penetration tests, and/or audits of organizational automated systems and processes, interpret results and develop and communication recommendations for improvement to management  • Program and manage an internal Continuous Compliance Monitoring Program  • Develop, maintain, report on security program metrics to measure program effectiveness  • Perform and manage Supplier Risk Assessment  • Perform product evaluations, recommends and implements enterprise security products and services  • Validate and test security architecture and design solutions to recommended vendor technologies  • Provide reporting metrics/ create and maintain dashboards for department functions  • Assist manager/director in planning, time budgeting and scheduling work for completion  • Assist with incident response through the life cycle including follow up with lessons learned and remediation measures to prevent similar future incidents IT Security Analyst UNITED HEALTH GROUP - Minneapolis, MN May 2016 to December 2016 VISRA  Environment: eGRC, Archer  UnitedHealth Group Inc. is an American diversified managed health care company based in Minnetonka, Minnesota. It is 6th on the Fortune 500. UnitedHealth Group offers a spectrum of products and services through two operating businesses, United Health care and Optum.Inc, both subsidiaries of UnitedHealth Group. United Health Group, our Health Benefits platform, serves key markets and geographic regions with a broad range of health benefit products and services for both consumers and benefit sponsors. It serves people in employer-sponsored health plans, those enrolled in Medicare and Medicaid, as well as those who purchase their own health plans.  • Act as a liaison & SME for internal departments & vendors to successfully perform Onsite Risk Assessments in the USA.  • Conduct onsite information security assessments of high risk vendors leveraging the HITRUST and ISO27001 CSF's  • Ensure vendor compliance to the business agreement, policies, procedures, & regulations along with ability to map controls and compliance requirements  • Review vendor supplied policies & procedures, internal/external assessment reports, agreements and provide feedback  • Utilize to eGRC (also known as Archer) to manage assessment and remediation records  • Follow up on findings with the vendor until they are satisfactorily remediated  • Provision assessment reports and executive summaries with recommendations & direction regarding remediation efforts and disposition of the third party  • Communicate, escalate, and track vendor progress on assessment remediation activities  • Understand information security risks that are inherent to a business and articulate those risks in business terms  • Engage VRO regarding any delays/deviations during remediation Education Bachelor's Degree in the Electrical & Electronics Engineering in Electrical & Electronics Engineering JNTU 2013 Skills Microsoft Office Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    ERP: SAP ECC 6.0  Compliance tools: Aruvio, eGRC, SAP Security, SAP Governance Risk and Compliance 5.3.  Standards: COBIT, HIPAA, NIST, PCI-DSS, HITRUST