Information Security Specialist Information <span class="hl">Security</span> Specialist Information Security Specialist - Touchstone Medical Imaging, LLC Nashville, TN Hard working Information Security Engineer with six years of experience in the logistics industry, specializing in incident response and digital forensics. Current student graduating February 2020 with my B.S. in Computer Forensics and Digital Investigations. Work Experience Information Security Specialist Touchstone Medical Imaging, LLC July 2018 to Present • Develop and maintain Information Security policies and procedures  • Design security policy education, training, and awareness activities  • Monitor compliance with security policies and applicable laws  • Incident response and coordinating investigations  • Solutions reviews  • Solution implementation  • Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery  • Coordinates penetration tests and risk assessments  • Vulnerability management and malware remediation  • Access and permission reviews IT Security Engineer GEODIS May 2017 to July 2018 Documented Information Security policies and procedures  ? Developed plans to safeguard computer files against accidental or unauthorized modification, destruction, or disclosure  ? Monitored computer networks to identify and prevent unauthorized use and potential security breaches from both internal and external sources  ? Monitored and maintained Information Security logging and reporting framework  ? Monitored and maintained threat and vulnerability analysis conduits  ? Assisted in performing Information Security risk assessments and audited networks, operating system, and applications  ? Reviewed violations of computer security policies and procedures and discussed with violators  ? Solution reviews and malware remediation  ? Incident response and digital investigations  ? Monitored and investigated IPS traffic logs and events  ? Created and managed IPS policies and rules  ? Reviewed and responded to escalated SIEM events  ? CR compliance and change management  ? Vulnerability mitigation IT Security Analyst GEODIS August 2015 to April 2017 Monitored and investigated suspicious IPS traffic logs and events  ? Created and managed IPS policies and rules  ? Reviewed escalated SIEM events  ? Malware remediation and vulnerability mitigation  ? CR compliance and change management Education B.S. in Computer Forensics and Digital Investigations Champlain College January 2017 to Present Skills answering (Less than 1 year), Audit (Less than 1 year), change management (2 years), Cisco (Less than 1 year), CompTIA (Less than 1 year), data recovery (Less than 1 year), EnCase (Less than 1 year), Forensics (2 years), FTK (Less than 1 year), imaging (Less than 1 year), IPS (2 years), Linux (Less than 1 year), logistics (Less than 1 year), MASTER DATA MANAGEMENT (Less than 1 year), MDM (Less than 1 year), MFA (Less than 1 year), MULTI-FACTOR AUTHENTICATION (Less than 1 year), Nessus (Less than 1 year), Network Protocols (Less than 1 year), Security (4 years), Siem, Information Security, Nist Additional Information SPECIAL SKILLS  ? Bit Stream imaging; data recovery; OSX; Windows; Linux; Python; SourceFIRE; Palo Alto  ? File and email header analysis; EnCase; WinHex; Active@ Undelete; Sysinternals Suite; Wireshark; Network Miner  ? MD5 Calculator; Alternate Data Streams; Winrar Compression and Data Hiding  ? SilentEYE; Network Protocols; FTK Imager; Data Lifter; Solarwinds; Barracuda Archiver  ? Proofpoint; AD Audit and AD Manager; Nessus Vulnerability Scanner; Tenable Security Center; Tenable IO; Sophos Central; Sophos Enterprise Console; Sophos Safeguard; Kace; O365; SonicWall VPN; MFA; Intune MDM; Knowbe4;    IT Service Desk Analyst March 2012-August 2015  Ozburn Hessey Logistics  ? Troubleshooted and repaired hardware and software related issues in the Windows XP and Windows 7 environments for end users.    LEADERSHIP EXPERIENCE  ? Running weekly change management and compliance meetings.  ? Leading orientation presentations for new hires relating to IT Security.  ? Addressing and answering questions on policies and procedures.    NATIONAL CERTIFICATIONS & AWARDS  ? Computer Hacking Forensics Investigator  ? CompTIA Security +  ? CompTIA Network +  ? Microsoft Certified IT Professional  ? Certified Wireless Technical Specialist  ? Securing Cisco Networks with Sourcefire IPS  ? Security Analyst  ? Hardware Specialist  ? Desktop Support Technician  ? PC Operator