IT Security Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Security Analyst - WebMD An?l?ti? and ?r???tiv? t??m l??d?r who ?x??l? in strategic ?l?nning, problem solving, turnaround management, and innovative ?r????? improvement. Ex??ll?nt ability t? ?ddr??? ?nd im?l?m?nt strategic ?l?n? for t??hn?l?g? ?r?j??t m?n?g?m?nt, ?t?nd?rd regulation and risk management. Accustomed to monitoring and auditing policy and procedural compliance to minimize risk Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Security Analyst WebMD - New York, NY June 2017 to Present • Designed and successfully led Internal Audit Program to ensure the validation of IT Controls.  • Liaise the SOX regulators by providing required validation reports and compliance reports to close the compliance findings.  • Audited and identified the risk on account access including privileged accounts and mitigated the risk (IAM).  • Management of access controls for user entitlements and recertification of accounts  • Prepared and document Policies and Procedures in compliance with the regulatory standards.  • Perform Risk Assessments and work towards remediating the open items and track the remediation  • Vulnerability assessments, Security monitoring and patch management  • Designed, implemented and tested Business Continuity Plan.  • Work with the leadership teams of various departments and mitigated the vulnerability findings.  • Led risk assessment initiative for existing vendors.  • Successfully administered Change Management, Incident Management practices for IT Controls. IT Security Analyst ING Bank May 2016 to June 2017 • As part of the IAM Experienced with IA Provisioning life cycle, RBAC, ACL, IAA  • Audit and identify the risk on privileged accounts like root and database acc (Oracle, Sybase) and mitigate the risk.  • Improving visibility to trust relationship, which determines who has the privileges on an account and data security regulations.  ? Re-designed the agency Internal control plan in compliance with the new regulatory guidelines  ? Ensure IT controls of the environment are secure and meet the required policies related to institution, federal, state, and local regulations.  ? Performed periodic Audits/reviews on Application and Department Access Rights to Improving visibility and trust relationship  ? Identified, triaged, and documented the instances of vulnerability areas and devices.  ? Work with data owners and Leadership Team to provide improved data protected reporting needs  ? Designee and provide workflows for developing reporting and change management  ? Administered Change Management practices for IT Operations and utilize Change Management best practices for optimum service by developing customized change plans and communication on key strategic business initiatives.  ? Worked on Incident Management / Problem Management / Change Management (Infrastructure/Application) and Change Advisory Boards (CAB) approvals IT Security Audit Intern Deutsche Bank 2015 to 2015 • Assess security related production controls in lines with regulatory standards supporting IT and business processes and finding potential gaps and communicate the risks to key stakeholders.  • Access Control, Access Management, Account Security, and work towards mapping them across the banks environment  • Liaise the FED (Federal Regulations of USA), USFRB, MAS (Monitory Authority of Singapore) and SOX regulators by providing required validation reports and compliance reports to close the compliance issues against application(s) by Auditing/validating the application  • Administered Change Management practices for IT Controls. IT Project Coordinator CMS CORPORATIONS - IN July 2011 to November 2013 Coordinate and supervised daily activities of a team of five Developers and one Network Manager.  ? Managed software development projects for both internal and externally facing applications.  ? Collaborated with product owners, remote internal IT resources and offshore vendors to create a new product line for BI services to the health care industry.  ? Supported user group of approximately 50 people, including network/PC support, development of software for both internal and customer use. Education Computer Science MONTCLAIR STATE UNIVERSITY September 2014 to May 2016 Business Administration LONDON SCHOOL OF BUSINESS AND COMPUTING - London November 2008 to March 2010 Bachelors in Computer Science and Information and Technology JNTU September 2003 to May 2007 Skills SECURITY (4 years), SARBANES OXLEY (1 year), SARBANES-OXLEY (SOX) (1 year), SOX (1 year), INFORMATION SECURITY (1 year) Additional Information SKILLS  Risk Assessment, Risk Management, NIST Information Security, Auditing Principles from FFIEC, SOX, HITRUST, ITGC, Project Management, SSH protocols, SQL, Database, MS access, Wire Shark, Microsoft Office Suite