Cybersecurity Analyst Cybersecurity <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Cybersecurity Analyst - University of North Carolina at Pembroke Wake Forest, NC Skilled in building a vision for success and executing business strategies that generate quantifiable results. As team captain,  led the University of North Carolina- Pembroke football team with a long-standing record of leadership excellence,  dependability and success. Recognized throughout my employment at UNCP for outstanding performance in Cybersecurity,  Information Technology, and Project Management. Hands-on approach to leadership and direction; excellent relationship  builder and takes pride in getting to know the team. Outgoing and charismatic, with an innate ability to team build while  fostering dignity, respect and loyalty throughout the workplace.    CORE KNOWLEDGE AND SKILL AREAS  • Team Building and • Threat Hunting • Staff Training/Development  Leadership • Malware Defense • Azure Active Directory  • Vulnerability Scanning • DUO (2FA) • Security Architecture  (Kenna and Rapid7) • Project Management • Pen Testing (Metasploit Pro)  • IPS/IDS • Partnership Building • Data Loss Prevention (DLP)  • Windows OS • Endpoint Security • MITRE ATT&CK Framework  • Kali Linux OS • Computer Triage • ISO/NIST/CIS Controls Work Experience Cybersecurity Analyst University of North Carolina at Pembroke - Pembroke, NC January 2018 to Present Responsible for protecting and defending the network from external and internal threats; analyzing information obtained  from intrusion detection and prevention systems and working with advanced security protocols; proactively assessing  potential items of risk and opportunities of vulnerabilities in the network; analyzing traffic trends and systems logs and proposing security policy changes. As well as creating and maintaining the university's security training and awareness  effort. Creating and conducting risk, system and application assessments. Creating and maintaining cyber security incident  response plans.    • Deployed Cisco's Advance Malware Protection (AMP) to monitor, detect, block, and remediate advanced malware and zero-day attacks throughout the network on 3,000+ endpoints and 200+ servers.  • Managed Cisco's Umbrella (Open DNS) to secure the network utilizing DNS and IP layer enforcement, intelligent  proxy, and command and control callback blocking.  • Maintained Cisco's Firepower Appliance, Next-Generation Intrusion Prevention System (NGIPS) managing and updating over 30,000 IPS object rules and reputation-based IP, URL and DNS security intelligence rules.  • Helped develop, grow and maintain a comprehensive and flexible set of information security policies, standards, and procedures aligned with CIS, ISO 27002:2013, and NIST 800-171 frameworks.  • Assisted in the development and implementation of IT Audit preparations, response plan and business continuity  operations.  • Administered the university's identity access control utilizing End User Authentication to block unknown devices  attempting to access the wired, wireless, or VPN network.  • Managed the UNCP intern program, helping them become dynamic users of IPS/IDS platforms as well as vulnerability  management tools.  ~~~~~~ on IT Security Intern University of North Carolina at Pembroke - Pembroke, NC January 2017 to December 2017 Worked collaboratively with the CISO and IT staff to coordinate and implement security measures for information systems to regulate access to computer data files and prevent unauthorized modification, destruction or disclosure of information.  Responsible for planning, coordinating, and implementing security measures to protect information and information  processing assets. Helped design and implement network control mechanisms to control access to computer networks;  manage vulnerabilities within the information processing infrastructure; manage threats and incidents impacting information  resources; assure through policy the appropriate use of information resources; and educate users on their information security and privacy responsibilities.    • Created Private Virtual Networks using ASA firewalls and Cisco switches to learn spoofing and hacking tactics  • Assisted with Project Manager to help implement Office 365 to Staff and Students using the proper security  awareness and project management tools  • Utilized advanced Cisco Security platforms such as Cisco AMP, Umbrella, Stealthwatch and Firepower to help  monitor and protect university systems from attack vectors  • Implemented best practices of Vulnerability Management to help protect students, staff, and faculty from malicious  activity on the network  • Assisted the CISO with IT Audits of local business units to enforce the best practices while enabling end users to meet the demands of their prospective duties Education Certificate Fayetteville State University Cyber Foundations August 2017 Bachelors of Science in Exercise Sport Science University of North Carolina at Pembroke - Pembroke, NC December 2016 Skills Nist, Information Security, Siem, Cyber Security