IT Auditor <span class="hl">IT</span> Auditor Hartford, CT Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Auditor SLK Software Services Private Limited - Bangalore, Karnataka August 2013 to January 2014 ? Perform Internal Audits of IT and Non- IT teams and assets, physical security audits, compliance reviews of BFSI verticals.  ? Perform compliance audits for BFSI to ensure IT controls are effective that restrict the users from data theft.  ? Perform definitions write ups, checklist & tracker development etc.  ? Approve Risk Exceptions, Change Requests & Service Requests within approved SLAs.  ? Maintain list of Organizational nonconformities.  ? Perform internal VAPT for range of networks and devices.  ? Define and ensure Information security policies, procedures, templates align with customer, business, and standard requirements.  ? Coordinate & support with various groups of the Information Security Organization in implementing defined ISMS policies and procedures.  ? Participate in external/ customer/internal audits, compliance tracking, control effectiveness testing, surprise audits and track closure of findings.  ? Facilitate review/update RA/BIA/ BCP/DRP/VAPT.  ? Mentor team new joiners. Provide technical assistance as required.  ? Participate in Induction, Trainings, Knowledge sharing sessions & identify improvement  initiatives. Information Security Analyst HSBC Software Development - Pune, Maharashtra January 2008 to May 2012 ? Executing Vendor security Risk Assessments of External Service Providers for HSBC  USA and HSBC China on ISO 27001 requirements.  ? Review vendor supplied policies and procedures, internal risk assessment results, internal /external audit reports, contracts and provide timely feedback.  ? Security Risk analysis on suitability of IT security controls, to protect sensitive and client data, for applications being changed for offshore use.  ? Conduct server reviews, surprise desktop reviews and desktop audits.  ? Conduct datacenter audits and internal audits of various teams.  ? Evidences are collected and documented on the basis of snapshots, questions asked and replies received from the requestor / Project Team / Asset user.  ? Adhere to the Control Objectives and Control standards.  ? Interface with project teams & ISMS coordinators / BCP coordinators to conduct necessary training and adequate awareness sessions on information security and BCP/DR.  ? Preparation of the annual audit calendar, conduct Internal audits in accordance with the  ISO 270012005 standard, publish internal audit reports? Conduct post audit follow ups and meetings? Track and follow-up all open issues till satisfactory closure. Escalate Non Conformities, exceptions and security incidents.  ? In compliance with email policy, monitor email screening results and take effective actions against misuse of email policy.  ? Identity and access management. Education PRISM K.J.Somaiya Institute of Management Studies and Research 2006 to 2007 Bachelor's in Electronics and Communication Engineering Biju Patnaik University of Technology - Brahmapur, Orissa May 2002 to June 2006 Skills EditDelete ISO 27001/ ISO 27002 Internal Audit (4 years), EditDelete Network devices and Server audits (4 years) Certifications/Licenses Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH) Certified ISO 27001:2005 Lead Auditor from BSI Getting ready for CISSP. Additional Information As an experienced IT Security Auditor, my experience aligns well with the qualifications you are seeking, and I am certain I would make a valuable addition to your organisation.    With around 5 years' of experience as an Information Security Auditor,I am adept in planning, vulnerability assessment, risk assessment, penetration testing, and code review and also few months of experience in internal audits and ISO 27001.    In addition to my experience, I have a solid educational foundation. I have done my Masters in Information Security Management. I am extremely enthusiastic about Information Security and welcome the opportunity to contribute to your organisation.    Please review my attached resume for additional details regarding my expertise and work experience. Thank You.