Information Security Analyst Information <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Information Security Analyst - Technocom INC Alexandria, VA Skilled Information Security Analyst with expertise in risk management unauthorized access viruses and a wide range of vulnerabilities and threats. Well-versed in direct and remote analysis with strong critical thinking communication and people skills. Able to thrive in fast-paced and challenging environments where accuracy and efficiency matter. Work Experience Information Security Analyst Technocom INC February 2017 to Present Conducted incident prevention, detection/analysis, containment, eradication and aid recovery across IT systems.  • Creating updating and reviewing system security plans  • Conducting risk assessments regularly and ensured measures raised in assessments were implemented in accordance with risk profile, and root-cause of risks were fully addressed.  • Work with technology teams to ensure that systems and services are configured for monitoring, alerting and reporting appropriately.  • Triage incidents and escalates quickly to the correct group.  • Monitor and analyze traffic and system security events and logs  • Conducting fisma-based security risk assessments by interviews, test and examining of facts. Supporting clients in creating a memo for findings that has passed scheduled completion date.  • Perform comprehensive security control assessments (SCA) and prepare report on management, operational and technical security controls for audited applications and supporting clients in creating risks base decisions (RBD) for plan of action and milestone.  • Reviewing and updating security artifacts such as system security plan (SSP), security assessment report (SAR), security assessment plan (SAP), contingency plan (CP), privacy impact assessment, and plan of actions and milestones  • Perform investigations as appropriate, recommend corrective actions for security incidents and create and track to resolution IT Intern Broadcasting Board of Governor - Washington, DC May 2016 to October 2017 Provide full-time support to the IT team.  • Performed security research, analysis and design for all client computing systems and the network infrastructure.  • Developed, implemented, and documented formal security programs and policies.  • Monitored events, responded to incidents and reported findings.  • Utilized Security Information and Event Management (SIEM), Intrusion Detection & Prevention (IDS / IPS), Data Leakage Prevention (DLP), forensics, sniffers and malware analysis tools. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology Marymount University Skills Active directory (Less than 1 year), audits. (Less than 1 year), Cisco (Less than 1 year), computer security (Less than 1 year), database (Less than 1 year), Disaster recovery (Less than 1 year), Firewalls (Less than 1 year), Ids (1 year), Ips (1 year), Linux (Less than 1 year), metrics (Less than 1 year), mitigation (Less than 1 year), remediation (Less than 1 year), Security (2 years), security policies (Less than 1 year), Siem (1 year), Switching (Less than 1 year), testing (Less than 1 year), System Administrator