IT Director <span class="hl">IT</span> Director IT Director - Lee's Group Inc Las Vegas, NV Work Experience IT Director Lee's Group Inc - Las Vegas, NV April 2017 to Present • Maintain and administer computer networks and related computing environments including computer hardware, systems software, applications software, and all configurations for 21 retail locations.  • Perform data backups and disaster recovery operations.  • Diagnose, troubleshoot, and resolve hardware, software, or other network and system problems, and replace defective components when necessary.  • Configure, monitor, and maintain email applications or virus protection software.  • Design, configure, and test computer hardware, networking software and operating system software.  • Monitor network performance to determine whether adjustments need to be made, and to determine where changes will need to be made in the future.  • Research new technologies by attending seminars, reading trade articles, or taking classes, and implement or recommend the implementation of new technologies.  • Train people in computer system use.  • Coordinate with vendors and with company personnel to facilitate purchases.  • Perform routine network startup and shutdown procedures, and maintain control records. Information Security Analyst Bofi Federal Bank - Los Angeles, CA April 2013 to November 2015 • Develop plans to safeguard computer files against accidental or unauthorized modification, destruction, or disclosure and to meet emergency data processing needs.  • Review violations of computer security procedures and discuss procedures with violators to ensure violations are not repeated.  • Monitor use of data files and regulate access to safeguard information in computer files.  • Perform risk assessments and execute tests of data processing system to ensure functioning of data processing activities and security measures.  • Confer with users to discuss issues such as computer data access needs, security violations, and programming changes.  • Train users and promote security awareness to ensure system security and to improve server and network efficiency.  • Document computer security and emergency measures policies, procedures, and tests.  • Answer user inquiries regarding computer software or hardware operation to resolve problems.  • Set up equipment for employee use, performing or ensuring proper installation of cables, operating systems, or appropriate software.  • Install and perform minor repairs to hardware, software, or peripheral equipment, following design or installation specifications.  • Maintain records of daily data communication transactions, problems and remedial actions taken, or installation activities.  • Read technical manuals, confer with users, or conduct computer diagnostics to investigate and resolve problems or to provide technical assistance and support. Education Bachelor's in Computer and Information Systems Security DeVry University - San Diego, CA Skills Information Technology, Security Management