IT Technical Support <span class="hl">IT</span> Technical Support IT Technical Support - Ann's Quality Care Milwaukee, WI I am a dependable, hard working, and highly motivated individual seeking an entry level IT position to help protect the network and provide strong IT support. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Technical Support Ann's Quality Care - Milwaukee, WI February 2014 to Present Provided an initial security assessment that found weak passwords, unencrypted wireless network,  hardware equipment safety issues, improper usage of network by church patrons and neighbors,  several viruses.  • Removed issues & Symantec anti-virus, viruses and malware  • Add an additional wireless router to run two separate sub nets, additional workstations, switch, and printer to their network  • Software installation, upgrades and configuration for Windows XP, Windows Server 2003 &  2008, Microsoft Office, and various anti-virus, malware, spyware, worm scanning and removal  Implementation of event auditing, software installation, publishing package, and password policies through Active Directory, group policy and user accounts.  • Router configuration and troubleshooting of group policy and local security policy. Server hardening techniques including closing ports, installation of anti-viruses, intrusion detection IT Security Analyst Active Minds Inc. Child Care April 2008 to May 2010 project work)  • Provided an initial security assessment that found weak passwords, unencrypted wireless network, hardware  equipment safety issues, improper usage of network by church patrons and neighbors, several viruses  • Conducted a site survey, including competing networks nearby that may cause a threat to the network  • Removed issues & added Citrix virtualization server to network and Symantec anti-virus  • Removed viruses and malware  • Added an additional wireless router to run two separate sub nets. Education ITT Technical Institute - Greenfield, WI June 2006 to December 2013 Skills Technical Support (2 years), Troubleshooting (2 years), Computer Skills (4 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL QUALIFICATIONS:    Operating Systems/Software Security Networking  • Windows desktop, Server, and Exchange Server Cisco Router and Switch configuration  installation and configuration Design, implementation and troubleshooting LAN  • Virtual Box and VMware and WAN technologies  Red Hat Linux Installation TCP/IP configuration  • Microsoft Access DNS, DHCP  • Microsoft Office FTP and Telnet  • Microsoft Outlook Active Directory, Group Policy, Shared Folders    • Configuration and implementation of Active Directory. • Implementing, managing and troubleshoo hardware devices and drivers  • Monitoring system performance Developing and writing • Hard Drives. Motherboards. RAM, Network  procedures for installation and use of hardware and software Interface Cards. Power Supplies  • Desktop support for Windows clients network printers • Setup and configuration of