Cybersecurity Analyst Cybersecurity <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Cybersecurity Analyst - Vista Consulting Group Austin, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Cybersecurity Analyst Vista Consulting Group - Austin, TX August 2015 to Present In my role at Vista Consulting Group and its parent company Vista Equity Partners my responsibilities  are to administer the Security Program and provide Security Consulting for Vista's portfolio of companies. The duties include the following:    • Deploy and Operate telemetry solutions that provide visibility to systems, users, and application  behaviors in order to thwart anomalistic activity.  • Maintain Cybersecurity annual objectives and metrics for the firm's Cybersecurity Program and policy maintenance attesting to the NIST CSF.  • Conduct Third-Party Cybersecurity Due Diligence on potential firm vendors.  • Develop best practices that will be implemented and leveraged across the firm and portfolio.  • Provide Tier 2/3 incident response and remediation for discovered vulnerabilities.  • Analyze Threat Feeds to extract threat intelligence for Firm and Portfolio use.  • Develop and execute Security Education material for the firm and the portfolio.  • Provide consultative guidance to portfolio companies as they build and operate their programs. IT Security Intern THE FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK - Reston, VA May 2014 to August 2014 • Created a provisioning manual for the Office of Finance by conducting numerous interviews with current staff and reviewing prior documentation in order to streamline the process.  • Audited current provisioning process outcomes for adherence to policy and to ensure federal  compliance in preparation for a federal audit. Education Bachelor of Business Administration in Information Systems THE GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY, School of Business - Washington, DC May 2015 Skills Incident Management (2 years), Policy Development (2 years), Consulting (2 years), Vendor Management (2 years) Certifications/Licenses CAPM July 2015 Additional Information Threat Hunting Workshops / Threat Intelligence Workshops