SECURITY ENGINEER <span class="hl">SECURITY</span> ENGINEER SECURITY ENGINEER Rigby, ID TARGET: Security Engineer ? IT Analyst ? IT Project Manager  Proactive, solution-focused information technology professional with six years' experience providing  networking, security products, and solutions to support client businesses.  • Interface and cultivate productive relationships with customers and cross-functional teams at all levels of the  organization while focusing on detail, meeting deadlines and delivering first-rate work.  • Self-starter with well-developed initiative, problem-solving and business sense of urgency to manage multiple  projects without compromising quality or productivity in fast-paced environments.  • Excellent communications skills and positive drive with the ability to work independently and as part of a team. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SECURITY ENGINEER INTEL SECURITY/MCAFEE - Idaho Falls, ID September 2014 to August 2017 Communicated with customers and companies worldwide to integrate products. Worked with the Syslog protocol to parse information using regular expressions. Created parsing, correlation, alerts, views, and content for SIEM product.  Implemented Agile methodologies to add features and fix bugs in products. Crafted and published documentation that  was publicly facing on behalf of the company. Researched security and networking products to identify the best method to integrate them with company products.  * Reviewed most of the work done by the team for quality assurance before delivering to customers. If the work did  not meet specifications, sent it back to team members for corrections and worked with them to finish them on time.  * Conducted penetration testing of the product. Learned recon and exploit tools to test security vulnerabilities.  Reviewed external security testing reports reproducing them. Submitted the vulnerabilities to the software  development team to promptly resolve them. Verified the fix afterward and further tested the vulnerability in other  parts of the product.  * Took the initiative to complete a special project for a big customer. Researched customer product and how it  functioned. Used documentation on the product to identify a list of all possible syslog messages.  ? Created a script to parse the data from documentation and create parsing rules for each syslog message.  ? Divided the results into multiple parts and assigned them to other team members to review and make  corrections. Complied finished parts and sent to customer for review.  ? Upon a successful review, published the rule set for all customers to download and install. IT ANALYST COMPLETE OFFICE CARE LLC - Idaho Falls, ID May 2014 to September 2014 Worked as part of a team to develop products and solutions to support customer businesses. Answered a large volume  of phone calls, assessed customer's issues, and created tickets to manage the work directly or escalate the issue to other technicians. Led projects involving the implementation of new office technologies. i.e., backup and wireless  solutions. Played a significant role in influencing business decisions and policy development.  * Aided in transforming the business to become a proactive, Managed Service Provider from being reactive to customer issues. Helped develop the company's portfolio to sell tiered services to get a steady monthly income.  Implemented a ticketing system and automation to save time and increase productivity.    * Identified opportunities to improve company products, found solutions to build a better product. One example was  a backup solution that was being sold but was not very reliable, had no reporting and took a long time to recover from the backup.  ? Researched different solutions and vendors and identified a cost-effective solution with a specific vendor.  ? Facilitated communications between the vendor and the business owner to create a new backup solution that  could be sold to drive profits.  ? Upon approval of the new solution, sold the product to customers, installed, and configured it. Customers  went from a manual backup system that took more than a day to recover from to a solution that was  automated, reported back, and could return the business back to running in less than 30 mins after a disaster.  * Introduced a new product to the business that was a managed wireless solution for business, including extra  security measures, and guest access. The solution was scalable if more coverage was needed and could be  managed from a single location, with alerts delivered to technicians if there was a problem. IT CONSULTANT TOTAL CARE IT - Idaho Falls, ID September 2013 to January 2014 Communicated and planned workflow with clients to ensure technology solutions met their needs. Worked  independently and as part of a team to provide Managed Services to businesses in the Idaho Falls/Rexburg area;  aided medical office clients with maintaining secure customer/patient data and complying with regulations.  * Gained experience with supporting clients in their needs to comply with HIPAA and PCI regulatory requirements.  Audited businesses for compliance and went over findings with business owners.  * Trusted advisor to business owners, facilitating decision-making processes on adoption and implementation of the most appropriate technologies. Education B.S. IN COMPUTER INFORMATION T ECHNOLOGY in Computer Networking and Security BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY - Rexburg, ID 2013 Skills Cisco (Less than 1 year), Excel (Less than 1 year), SIEM (2 years), solutions (Less than 1 year), testing (2 years) Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES:  Linux/Server Microsoft Windows/Server Mac OS Word Excel PowerPoint Visio pfSense Proxmox VMWare  QuickBooks Microsoft Exchange Agile Process Management Data Redundancy Wireless Technology  Web Development McAfee SIEM Splunk Computer Hardware Repair Cisco Equipment Regular Expressions  Web filtering & Malware Solutions QA Testing Vulnerability Testing