Chief Information Officer Chief Information Officer Chief Information Officer - Alcorn State University Brookhaven, MS Accomplised IT Professional with demonstrated success implementing strategic IT initiatives that improve business functionality with positive impacts on the bottom line. Proven ability to lead and motivate teams to maximize productivity. Self-starteer, adept at moving into new environments and extrapolate from existing experience to quickly adept to new technologies with ease. Work Experience Chief Information Officer Alcorn State University - Lorman, MS May 2018 to Present • Member of various college committees  • Estabilshes and directs the strategic long-term goals, policies and procedures for an information technology department.  • Determines the organization's long-terms systems needs and hardware and software acquistions to accomplish the organization's business objectives.  • Direct information management budgeting, strategic and tactical planning, business process reengineering, applications support, network/infrastructure user services.  • Oversees planning and implenetation of all business and student information systems.  • Directs the information strategy of the institution based on forecasting information from senior management.  • Sets the overall direction of internal business systems. Identify user nees and direct building of IT teams to work across all levels of the institution.  • Servies as primary corporate spokesperson for information management. Explore new technologies for future planning and potential implementation.  • Interfaces with industry on information management and information technology matters.  • Carries out supervisory responsibilities in accordance with the institution's policies and applicable laws.  • Rresponsibilities include interviewing, hiring, and training emmployees; planning, assigning, and direction work; appraising performance; rewarding and disciplining employees; addressing complaints and resolving issues. I.T. SECURITY MANAGER MISSISSIPPI DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN SERVICES - Jackson, MS December 2015 to March 2018 • Responds to IT security audits  • Configure routers, switches, and design networks  • Provides Policy and Planning techniques  • Demonstrate strong written and verbal communication skills required to present department plans and activities to individuals and groups throughout the company  • Prepares, read, comprehend and analyze a variety of complex forms, reports, spreadsheets, maps, plans, records, documentation, and correspondence in all languages required by the job  • Conducts IT security compliance measures  • Responds adequately to inquiries or complaints  • Writes using standard convention in all languages required by the job.  • Applies principles of logical or scientific thinking to define problems, collect data, establish facts and draw valid conclusions.  • Applies common sense understanding to carry out instructions furnished in written, oral or diagrammatic form.  • Communicates effectively and efficiently.  • Deals with people beyond giving and receiving instructions maintaining effective working relationships.  • Manages multiple high priority initiatives in a fast paced, highly technical environment  • Successfully performs the planning, directing, reporting and administrative responsibilities of this position.  • Supervises employees to include conduct evaluations and manages schedules Director of Information Technology MISSISSIPPI JOB CORPS CENTER - Crystal Springs, MS February 2002 to December 2015 • Provide comprehensive and progressive security for global corporate network, standard desktop hardware, software, and peripherals. This includes installation, upgrades, problem resolution, and project management  • Configure routers, switches, and design networks  • Provides Policy and Planning techniques  • Develop and maintain global site documentation to include equipment inventory and network drawings  • Implement and maintain Phone Systems (VOIP), Voice Mail Systems & Video Conference Equipment.  • Provide recommendations for upgrades or purchases as required to maintain an effective and efficient network.  • Provide support for desktop support personnel and end users.  • Manage and implement global patch updates for all systems.  • Responsible for Disaster Recovery documentation and procedures  • Administrator of Citrix Metaframe Servers. Responsible for adding new users and applications  • Provide support for Cisco equipment  • Responsible for all I.T. Projects  • Daily supervision of 4 employees INFORMATION SYSTEMS OFFICER U.S. ARMY NATIONAL GUARD - Philadelphia, MS September 1987 to November 2013 • Manage personnel and information system assets associated with Automation Battlefield Computer Systems.  • Perform system integration.  • Develop software installation plans.  • Plan and develop Information Systems Life Cycle Management.  • Conduct systems analysis, design, development, implementation, and acceptance testing.  • Create and implement Information Assurance Plans.  • Design and implement ABCS/AIS LANs into tactical environments.  • Perform systems administration and LAN administration of tactical ABCS/AIS; manages training of personnel in the installation, operation, and administration of tactical ABCS/AIS, intranets, and video teleconferencing systems.  • Provide technical guidance and direction to subordinate operating elements. Develops policy and guidance for management of all LANs and information systems at all echelons. PROGRAMMER ANALYST MISSISSIPPI STATE HOSPITAL - Whitfield, MS October 1997 to February 2002 • Worked closely with business partners to define strategies for technical solutions, determine requirements, and develop functional clinical designs based on the analysis of line of business needs, objectives and existing systems infrastructure.  • Provided support and system requests for the clinical departments by working with the health record system, consolidated clinical document architecture, admission discharge transfers to include orders and results.  • Applied technical knowledge in determining end to end design requirements for small and medium projects involving line of business, software/hardware developers and vendors.  • Conducted staff meetings with clinical departments to discuss new ideas on improving their system  • Provided project management skills in Health Information Technology  • Utilized Health Information Technology (HIT), Electronic Health Record (EHR), and Consolidated Clinical Document Architecture (CCDA) Education Ph.D. in Higher Urban Education Jackson State University - Jackson, MS 2016 Bachelor's Degree in Information Technology Network Administration Jackson State University - Jackson, MS 2010 Master's Degree in I.T. Project Management American InterContinental University - Schaumburg, IL 2009 Skills Active directory, Appletalk, Cisco, Citrix, Dhcp Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Active Directory, Messaging, & Systems Management Administration  • Experience in managing Active Directory OU's and policies, creating security groups, adding users, and devices to domain.  • Administering Exchange 2003 Servers; creating, removing, configuring mailboxes.  • Responsible for creating and enforcing email retention policies.  • Assist in enterprise-wide migration of users off of Novell on to Exchange 2003.  • Experience with Citrix administration    LAN/WAN Networking  • Experience in loading configurations for Cisco switches, Routers, and wireless access points.  • Experience in installing andconfiguringAirspace Wireless Appliances and Cisco Aeronet Wireless access points.  • Working knowledge of VOIP.  • Performed wire tracing and termination, experienced with network monitoring programs such as Multi-ping  • Experience in TCP/IP, DNS, WINS, DHCP, and AppleTalk protocols.    Software, OS, Programming Administration  • Administrator for Windows Servers.  • Policy and Planning  • Administered Novell 4 environment, creating user accounts and security groups; maintaining file and print server.  • Responsible for adding users and printer to the Citrix Metaframe.  • Administration of Altiris Express server.  • Support for OS/2 and Workspace on Demand with Citrix ICA Client software.  • Support for UNIX and AS/400 environments.  • Program using Visual Basic, Java, SQL, Ado.Net, COBOL, Fortran, Easytrieve, and C++