Security Analyst Intern <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Intern Security Analyst Intern Provo, UT Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Security Analyst Intern The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter January 2017 to June 2017 • Successfully lead highest number of completed incidents in a global non-profit organization  • Provided log, intrusion, and web traffic analysis through Splunk Enterprise, and RSA Security Analytics  • Responsible for identifying, prioritizing, and documenting malicious events through the Service Now ticket system  • Collaborated with a 12-member team to protect sensitive account information of key church leaders  • Entrusted in maintaining a functioning 24/7 security operations center alone for multiple hours Junior Security Analyst Scionetix LLC February 2016 to June 2016 • Delivered intrusion detection analysis of client networks with the Security Onion Linux distribution  • Provided security forensic analysis through a proprietary technology called Caseboard  • Experienced with the Kali Linux penetration suite, including its Metasploit framework  • Maintained monthly vulnerability reports to clients through OpenVAS and Nexpose  Digital-Data Communication Inc. IT Help Desk Technician Dell September 2015 to February 2016 • Responsible for the upkeep and security of 250 Dell, HP, and iMac computers in a corporate environment  • Operated Active Directory by organizing users, groups, and permissions  • Proficient with Office365 suite including Microsoft Exchange functions and features  • Effectively completed an average of 8 to 12 service tickets a day  • Assisted in the maintenance of 3 IDF rooms, which resulted in a reduction of network downtime and cost Account Manager Vivint Home Security, Inc November 2012 to September 2015 • Managed multiple customer accounts through a complex, multi-step process in Salesforce  • Contacted an estimated 30 customers a day to maintain a 92% weekly contact rate  • Resolved escalated situations in a quick and professional manner  • Found resolutions through up-selling with an average of 6 sales per day  • Aided customers from fraudulent companies by maintaining an 85% retention rate Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology Utah Valley University December 2017 Skills Splunk, Help Desk Technician, Network Security, (2 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/trason-carver-663a8484/ Certifications/Licenses Splunk Power User Present This certification focuses understanding searching and reporting commands as well as on the creation of knowledge objects. Major topics include using transforming commands and visualizations, filtering and formatting results, correlating events, creating knowledge objects, using field aliases and calculated fields, creating tags and event types, using macros, creating workflow actions and data models, and normalizing data with the Common Interface Model (CIM). Additional Information Cover Letter:     Trason J. Carver  834 E 900 S   Provo, UT 84606  (806)-340-4210   trasoncarver@gmail.com    Greetings Hiring Committee,  My ambition is to find a position that allows me to apply my talents and skills in the information security industry. I invite any organization that will assist me in pursuit of this dream to consider my abilities for employment.    With about two years of solid technical support and security analysis experience, including a bachelor’s degree in information technology, you would be guaranteed to find in me a qualified candidate. Over the years I have gained an understanding of how to identify common attack vectors such as: SQL injection, cross site scripting, path traversal, predictable resource location, to name a few. I am proficient with industry standard SIEM technologies such as Splunk and RSA Security Analytics, and am currently certified to use Splunk Enterprise. Using the Splunk search language(SPL) and its applications, I have been able to create dashboards and reports that can help make better business decisions and mitigate risk. In addition, I have assisted in the security of account information of world leaders in one of the largest non-profit organization on the globe.     I take pride in protecting the institutions and organizations I am apart of and always strive to go the extra mile. I have a unique determination to work hard among my generation, and a tenacious mentality to overcome any challenge. I thrive in team environments, and find myself a proficient communicator both individually and publicly. I am passionate and driven in the cause of information security. It is my career goal to apply my information security skills in a way that will benefit my employer.    I look forward to meeting with you to further discuss my qualifications, and goals as a potential candidate.     Sincerely,     Trason J. Carver