Citrix Engineer Citrix Engineer Citrix Systems Engineer Metairie, LA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Citrix Engineer Ochsner Health System - New Orleans, LA May 2018 to July 2019 Citrix Engineer providing third level support for Ochsner Health System.   The engineering team provides support of VMware View, Citrix XenApp 6.5-7x, Storefront, director, NetScaler.    • Successfully migrated over 400 applications from Citrix XenApp 6.5 into XenApp 7.15 LTSR encompassing 4 distinct geographic locations over 300 servers and four different farms.   • Publish Epic applications in presentation server and test the application for connectivity.   • Initiated and participated in identifying opportunities for business process redesign utilizing business systems delivered applications and modules.   • Coordinated, implemented, and communicated the system change requirements.   • Management of VMware infrastructure for my assigned applications.   • Expertise in troubleshooting and resolving issues in enterprise Citrix environment, Including Web Interface, application enumeration and performance issues, Printing and provisioning issues, for internal and external clients.   • 24X7 on-call, disaster recovery testing, extensive involvement with and training of Level one technicians.  • Managed VDI assignments and user sessions using VMware Vsphere and Citrix Director.  • Decommissioned and reallocated servers based on resource needs assisting with capacity planning.  • Citrix Provisioning Services and Machine creation services Virtualization Engineer Secure24 - Southfield, MI August 2014 to May 2018 Virtualization Engineer provide third level support for cloud hosting provider. The engineering team provides support of VMware View, Citrix XenApp 4.5-7x, Storefront, director, netscaler and VMware DaaS. Implementations of new Citrix environments per the discovery process with new and existing clients. Training and documentation of products and services provided to our clients.    • Conduct and Facilitate technical training, and information sharing to multiple internal groups.  • Deploy, test and document development, pre-production and production environments Train and mentor Junior resources interested in learning the VDI Technology.  • Responsible for Engineering, problem resolution, advising and system analysis.  • Performing Upgrades to existing Citrix Environments to the latest version XenApp 7.15 LTSR.  • Ran health checks, published new Applications, Provisioned New Desktops, and Resolving customer outages.  • Support and administration of Microsoft Windows Server, versions 2000, 2003, 2008 and 2012 Implementing VMware DaaS to provide customers VDI Solutions Deploy and maintain the Virtual Desktop Infrastructure Environment (Horizon View).  • Installing and maintaining images for the following platforms Citrix, VMware Products View & DaaS.  Maintain and support the Citrix Application Virtualization Environment Security Analyst SECURE-24 October 2014 to August 2016 Provide system security analysis and support for a cloud hosting provider. Perform onboarding of user accounts and system setup. Diagnose and fix system issues within Active Directory, Microsoft Server OS, networking and desktop environments.    • Conducted Tier 3 support that included monitoring incoming server alerts, providing data center management, and escalating issues to engineers where appropriate.  • Worked closely with Network Administrator and Supervisor to research, plan, and execute numerous network system projects per organizational requirements.  • Developed and documented IT and network support procedures, process improvements, and best practices for internal IT customers and business partners.  • Oversaw Active Directory and account management activities that included creating new users, providing rights to groups, and removal of users. Senior Desktop Engineer MINACS June 2014 to September 2014 Served as a Senior Desktop Engineer for three-month assignment to provide desktop deployment and on-boarding of new employees. Handled printer setups / configurations and server network administration issues. Performed IT disaster recovery testing and business continuity planning functions.    • Provided support for all EU standard PC applications, desktop/server/laptop hardware issues, mobile devices, and network (LAN, WAN, Wireless, VPN) connectivity issues.  • Successfully designed and documented IT and network support procedures, process improvements, and best practices for internal IT customers and business partners.  • Built, reconfigured, maintained, and repaired Windows/PC workstations (desktops and laptops) and servers. IT Consultant Robert Half Technology May 2014 to June 2014 Built, upgraded, and supported Microsoft Windows HP Servers that included maintaining all server documentation, building and rackinmachines, attaching networks and power, and configuring new hardware for JPMorgan Chase.   Successfully completed a PC refresh deployment that included imaging and rolling out Windows 7 software update for all computer users, tracking / documenting migration issues, and staging old PCs for disposal. IT Consultant Stefanini IT Solution - Southfield, MI September 2012 to June 2014 Provided technical IT system support on numerous contracts.    • Built, upgraded, and supported Microsoft Windows HP Servers that included maintaining all server documentation, building and racking machines, attaching networks and power.  • Successfully completed a PC refresh deployment for Axa Advisors that included imaging and rolling out Windows 7 software update for all computer users, tracking / documenting migration issues, and staging old PCs for disposal.  • Led efforts to install / upgrade systems, implement virus detection / eradication procedures, diagnose / fix system failures, and configure / troubleshoot Windows 7, MS Exchange, Active Directory, and Office issues for Covance.  • Managed system security requirements that included performing password resets, remote desktop trouble isolation, and project tracking to document, resolve, update, and close out trouble tickets for Detroit Public Schools. Technical Solutions Representative II EDS March 2011 to March 2012 Provided Tier I technical support to identify, troubleshoot, and resolve problems and issues pertaining to the capabilities and services available to users. Developed and presented training to end-users on how to use software capabilities and services efficiently and produce help desk documentation. Handled system administration issues.    • Delivered quality customer service over the phone, in-person, and through email and support tickets as directed by Service Level Agreements (SLA).  • Performed password resets, remote desktop trouble isolation, VPN setups / certificate renewals, and setup restore security certificate for home setup for remote users. ABS Level II Tech Support CAVALIER LLC February 2010 to January 2011 Provided level II technical support in the installation and restoration of telephone communications for a multimillion dollar communications service provider. Served as a subject matter expert in the following: SONET, DWDM, transport equipment / switching, soft switches, VoIP gateways / IP, routers, ATM / access, and digital cross connect equipment.    • Leveraged knowledge and understanding of DSL, T1, ISDN, VPN, web hosting, email hosting, and dialup technologies to identify and resolve system issues in an ISP environment.  • Successfully utilized troubleshooting procedures to investigate and address issues for POTS, ISDN, DSL, DID, GS Lines, Trunks, PRI, DHO, Fractional T1s, and DS3s. Network Engineer / Technical Support Manager / Manager, Technical Analysis AT&T May 2001 to December 2009 Inside Telecom Technician    Promoted in roles of increase responsibility to provide support for data, SONET, and telecommunication networks across regional territories and call center environments. Collaborated with senior management to isolate / restore network circuit issues as well as teams to share information in support of troubleshooting efforts. Led 10 direct reports as a Technical Support Manager. Leveraged a web-based tool to track quality requirements. Reviewed trouble tickets to ensure proper ticket handling and customer billing and rebating procedures were followed.    • Increased performance across systems by tracking and managing the creation, opening, and closing of customer trouble tickets on out-of-service circuits.  • Successfully identified and resolved long duration outages by overseeing internal customer escalation processes.  • Managed DS1 troubleshooting functions for a large Midwest region covering five U.S. states with oversight for tracking and managing technical support resources and escalations.  • Worked closely with cross-functional management teams to troubleshoot and resolve network outages.  • Reduced repeat rates by 10% by supervising and training 10-member team to handle trouble tickets and customer related system issues, ensuring highest levels of productivity and efficiency.  • Oversaw technical troubleshooting and training for a large call center environment including providing floor support for 150+ technicians.  • Supervised and trained nine center technicians in identifying and resolving data, SONET, and telecommunication network issues based on solid understanding of industry technologies.  • Delivered mandatory on-the-job training and coverage to all center personnel in Pm data reading, data analysis, testing, ticket handling, billing, and customer support. Education B.S. in Cybersecurity in Information Systems ITT TECHNICAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY September 2015 Skills DHCP (Less than 1 year), DNS (Less than 1 year), Windows 7 (1 year), Active Directory, Virtualization, Vmware Additional Information • Operating Systems: Windows 7,8,10, xp, Servers: 2003/2008/2012  • Networking Protocols: TCP/IP, DHCP, DNS, FTP