Senior Network Engineer - Advisor Senior Network Engineer - Advisor Senior Network Engineer - Advisor - DHS (GDIT) New Orleans, LA Work Experience Senior Network Engineer - Advisor DHS (GDIT) February 2016 to Present Assisted with the design and implementation of a Cisco ACI multi-pod software defined network within the DHS multi-tenant facility to provide customers with enhanced visibility of network health and reporting as well as and expedited time frame to deploy new network services. The multi-pod design also allows customers to seamlessly extend their disaster recovery operations into existing third party cloud environments such as Microsoft Azure and AWS.  ? Led engineering effort on a 1 year high intensity NextGen project that consisted of replacing and/or consolidating 150+ Cisco NXOS and IOS network devices with the next generation Cisco Nexus 9000 series switches in preparation for a future ACI deployment. Received DHS award for completing this project on-time and under budget without any major service disruptions on a multi-tenant network consisting of more than 22 components.  ? Led engineering effort to replace end-of-life Cisco ASA 5580 firewalls with the next generation Cisco Firepower 4120s. All firewalls were in multi-context mode consisting of more than 100 total contexts.  ? Led engineering effort to deploy a new Cisco VXLAN evpn network and migrate more than 3000 end host connections from end-of-life network devices. This effort also included migrating hosted web services from Cisco ACE load balancers to BigIP F5 load balancers along with migrating Cisco FWSMs to 5585 multi-context firewalls. Received DHS recognition upon project completion.  ? Network Lead for an operations team consisting of 14 engineers. Responsibilities included but not limited to being on-call 24x7 for Tier III escalation, daily operations activities and reporting utilizing both SolarWinds and Science Logic network monitoring resources, daily status reporting to senior management, and ensuring timely and accurate customer ticket resolutions.  ? Demonstrated expert or advanced level skillset with the following IT technologies, hardware platforms, and network tools:  ? VXLAN evpn, ACI, vPC, WAN optimization, load balancing, firewall clustering, multi-context firewall, BGP, OSPF, Netflow/sFlow  ? Nexus 9000/7000/5000/3000/2000, BigIP F5 7250/10250, Riverbed Steelhead 7070/Interceptor 9350, Firepower 4120, ASA 5585, Palo Alto 5050  ? SolarWinds NPM/IPAM/NCM/NTA, ScienceLogic network monitoring, Ansible, CA Spectrum Lead IT Security Analyst NVision Solutions December 2009 to February 2016 Developed, coordinated, and implemented security policies, technical/administrative procedures, accreditation documents, and network projects associated with the NDBC IT architecture in accordance with NDBC, NOAA, and DOC regulations including but not limited to FIPS Publication Guidelines, NIST publications, and IRM Security Manual.  ? Coordinated activities of systems administrators and network administrators with regard to the implementation of security policies and procedures.  ? Monitored audit logs and access to operations systems, computing platforms, applications systems, network links, and telecommunication links for successful and unsuccessful security breaches.  ? Conducted quarterly audit reviews in order to provide security and risk assessments to ensure that IT systems are fully accredited and comply with security standards.  ? Led investigations and/or inspections to assure that actual or suspected security deviations are identified and reported.  ? Advised and provided technical consultation and guidance to NDBC IT operations and management personnel  ? Evaluated software, hardware, security, and network performance using complex analytic tools to prevent operational deficiencies.  ? Presented presentations at IT management meetings on innovative techniques to be implemented within the NDBC.  ? Developed and managed technical documentation including graphical illustration for configuration management and process control methods.  ? Demonstrated expert or advanced level skillset with the following IT technologies, hardware platforms, and network tools:  ? Active Directory, LDAPS, DNS Sec, DHCP, IPSEC, SSL, Windows Certificate Authority, Symantec Anti-Virus, Bluecoat Proxy, Tipping Point IPS, PGP, Splunk Syslog Correlation, Cisco ASA Firewall, Tivoli Patch Management, Tivoli Security Configuration Manager, Solarwinds Orion Network Performance Monitor/Network Traffic Analysis/Server & Application Monitor, Tenable Nessus Security Center, Citrix XenApp/XenDesktop, Cisco SSL Web VPN Senior IT Network Engineer Pangaia Partners December 2007 to June 2009 Bank of New York Mellon - Global IP Re-Addressing Project)  ? Coordinated multiphase effort to re-address 23,000 duplicate IP addresses throughout Heritage Mellon sites.  ? Implemented data and voice network changes in direct support of IP-Readdressing strategy.  ? Developed detailed staging, IP assignment, and testing documentation.  ? Created detailed Visio network diagrams for network operations turnover.  ? (Deutsche Bank - High Frequency Algorithmic Trading & 6500 Hybrid-to-Native IOS Conversion Projects)  ? Engineered and implemented low latency network architecture for the new HFAT platform.  ? Coordinated and implemented 6500 MDF hybrid to native IOS conversions (93 total devices).  ? Developed detailed staging, IP assignment, and testing documentation. Created detailed Visio network diagrams for network operations turnover.  ? (Consolidated Edison - Substation Telecommunication Upgrade Project)  ? Developed detailed migration procedures for the communications upgrade between all 53 NYC substation RTUs and the primary/secondary controllers.  ? Developed migration schedules and detailed installation diagrams.  ? Managed implementation of hot cutovers and coordinated testing/recovery efforts. Senior IT Network Engineer BT Radianz November 2005 to August 2007 Engineered and implemented complex network changes to the BT Radianz Extranet (RXN), a Cisco modeled Global IP Multicast network, while exceeding customer Service Level Agreements, meeting aggressive rollout schedules, and adhering to strict change policies within the financial community. This included new infrastructure builds, platform migrations, IOS/CATOS upgrades, ATM VCC migrations and upgrades, circuit migrations and upgrades including SONET OC3 through OC48 and Metro Ethernet circuits, IP Multicast group additions, QOS policy changes, FCE NAT IP range additions, BGP prefix range changes, static CAM additions, community address range additions, and OSPF BDR changes. Developed detailed network documentation and provided training to the US Network Implementation staff.  Accomplishments  ? Led implementation effort for the successful rollout of the new BT Radianz Ultra network that presently generates annual revenue of $1.2 million per connection. Ultra is an innovative sub-millisecond network delivery architecture that utilizes Gigabit Ethernet DWDM connectivity along with Layer 3 switching.  ? Led implementation effort for the successful platform upgrade of the LAN switches within all US POPs. The upgrade was from the Cisco 4006 to the Cisco 6506E and eliminated the use of static CAM entries with PIM snooping.  ? Developed testing procedures 1Gbps and 10 Gbps DWDM circuits and to ensure end-to-end IP connectivity following the addition of new provider access feeds.  ? Designed, integrated, and managed relational database to track the status of new circuit orders and provide real time status to the Circuit Provisioning and Technical Client Services teams resulting in a significant decrease in the time to turn-up new client circuits and provided management with real time reporting capabilities. Site Lead Network Engineer NMCI (NETCO Gov't Systems) November 2003 to October 2005 Technical lead of 24x7 Network Operations for the Space And Warfare Information Technology Center (SITC), Command Naval Reserve Forces (CNRF), and Stennis Space Center base and wide area networks that included over 146 remote sites and 15000 end-user connections. Completed quarterly CAPEX budgeting forecasts. Completed site surveys and directed the building of the NMCI Classified and Unclassified network infrastructure. Completed ISP and OSP cabling infrastructure and maintained detailed network documentation.  Accomplishments  ? Led engineering and implementation efforts to provide 100% physical separation between the SITC and CNRF base area networks.  ? Completed the engineering and implementation of a disaster recovery site to support both commands in Forth Worth, TX that required 1.5 Terabyte daily backups, 100% secure user connectivity during failover or COOP event, and 24x7 operational support.  ? Led Engineering efforts to restore Stennis Space Center BAN to 100% operational status following Hurricane Katrina.  ? Engineered and implemented network design changes in order to optimize network performance and to maintain compliancy with IAVA security policies as directed by the Department of the Navy.  ? Designed, integrated, and managed relational database with Microsoft Access that would function as a central depository for network device and connectivity information for all Mississippi sites. Network Project Manager BT Radianz April 2001 to November 2003 Managed the design and implementation of multiple complex network projects assigned in a timely and cost effective manner while meeting all customer requirements and Service Level Agreements. This included assisting the Americas Operations Director with budget generation and execution, representing Radianz at carrier and hardware vendor service meetings, providing proper and timely notification when exceeding capacity thresholds including an analysis of the situation and proposed corrective plan of action, ensuring consistent and effective communication with Global Engineering and Data Center Operations staff, and continually analyzing potential opportunities for cost savings and network improvements.  Accomplishments  ? Directed the build of a new Global Data Center in Nutley, NJ, in the recovery effort from the World Trade Center loss. (As of October 2003 this facility houses two POPs consisting of 80 Cisco 7206VXR Distribution routers, 200+ DS3 Client Distribution circuits, and 2 OC12c core circuits)  ? Member of national workgroup for the Start-Point high profile work package that stabilized the RXN network assuring 100% network standardization.  ? Managed the rollout of RXNv3 within Nutley Data Center that included a new core and distribution platform; Nortel Passport 15K ATM switches, Cisco 12410 and 12404 GSR routers.  ? Developed in-house lab to replicate the Radianz network for staging of new equipment rollouts, migrations, and failover testing.    Current IT Certifications  ? ITIL v4  ? Security+    Previously held IT Certifications  ? CISSP  ? CCNP Education Mechanical Engineering Mississippi State University - Starkville, MS Wingfield High School - Jackson, MS