WorldPay/Senior Technical Specialist WorldPay/Senior Technical Specialist WorldPay/Senior Technical Specialist - Pinnacle Group Work Experience WorldPay/Senior Technical Specialist Pinnacle Group October 2018 to Present Our team is responsible for security vulnerabilities across several domains.  • Utilize SCCM to package and push software updates to over 10k workstations/laptops across several domains.  • Utilize Qualys for Vulnerability Scans including doing ad-hoc scans  • Troubleshoot failed patches by remoting into machine or mostly using pseexec.exe  • Created scripts in PowerShell to deploy failed updates or to remove software.  • Use PowerShell to collect data on any computer on the network. Technical Lead CBTS - Cincinnati Bell Technology Services April 2016 to April 2018 Level 3  Responsible for any activity involving datacenter and access to network shares  • Utilized Active Directory and Net IQ to grant and revoke access to company network shares, creating groups, folders as well create and distribute group policy to maintain security for the infrastructure.  • Utilized SCCM to deploy Windows builds; install, configure, troubleshoot software; support peripherals including printers, scanners, and mobile phones.  • Provided support and maintain Domain Controllers.  • Responsible for pushing out windows security updates, software distribution and troubleshooting desktop issues. using remote control and/or remote desktop using System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM).  • Monitor 500+ severs resource utilization, trending, and capacity planning using HP Insight Management.  • Administer Cisco VOIP desk phones - assign, troubleshoot, upgrade software/hardware and set up voicemail.  • Support videoconference Codec systems including projectors upgrades, relocate, and troubleshoot.  • Review daily backup report and verify backups were completed and resolve any related issue.  • Responsible for DHCP reservations. Grant local admin rights to users on workstations and servers.  • Resolved DNS issues. Facilitate firewall changes. Administer virtual servers in VMWare.  • Troubleshooting and maintaining 200+ Cisco network switches and wireless controllers and access points.    GE Aviation/ IT Security Analyst  Responsible for providing secured IT solutions  • I worked with the IT security team learning processes and procedures to assure proper secure IT troubleshooting  • Successfully study and obtain five NISPOM Security Certification and Accreditation Process IT Security Analyst Apex Systems August 2015 to February 2016 Level 3  Responsible for providing Level 3 IT support  • Provide complex level 3 technical support to onsite and remote employees  • Utilize ITMS to troubleshoot computer issues and push required software  • Provide concierge IT service to Senior Executives and their Administrative Assistants  • Troubleshoot network connectively issues Network Technician Robert Half Technology September 2014 to July 2015 Responsible for troubleshooting varies clients IT related issue  • Managed user accounts in Active Directory, Exchange, Office 365  • Created group policy in Active Directory via Visual Basic  • Provide tier 2 and 3 technical support for multiple clients with varies IT environments.  • Answer, evaluate, and prioritize incoming tier 2 or 3 helpdesk issues remotely or onsite with clients.  • Analyze and fix network, email, VoIP phone and software related problems reported by users.  • Install, maintain and troubleshoot LAN/WAN and data communications equipment.  • Utilize PowerShell to automate processes within Windows Server environment.    Contingent/Network Support Technician  • Answer, evaluate, and prioritize incoming telephone, voice mail, e-mail, and in-person requests for assistance from clients experiencing problems with network connectivity, and other computer-related technologies.  • Handle problem recognition, research, isolation, resolution and follow-up for routine network problems, referring more complex problems to supervisor or escalation team.  • Recommend changes to network designs based on client requirements (LAN/WAN/WLAN). Information Technology Specialist D.E. Foxx & Associates March 2014 to August 2014 Responsible for day to day computer operations  • I provided superior technical support for, desktop, laptops, smartphones, and software.  • I worked with the procurement staff to purchase hardware and software.  • Documented technical activities and resolutions in manner in which they can be used in the future.  • Provide end-users training for new and existing hardware and software. Assistant IT Manager The E. W. Scripps Company, WCPO-TV, ABC Affiliate February 2007 to November 2012 Manage day to day IT operations.  • I provided superior second and third-level technical support for desktop, laptop, IPads, smartphones and software.  • Work closely with each business unit to develop and modify systems to meet business needs and reduce down time.  • Maintain technical documentation in audit-able fashion to comply with Sarbanes-Oxley 404 Act.  • Design and facilitate training for end-users and new hires on software changes and system changes.  • Develop, build, test and deploy new computer images with Norton Ghost.  • Patch various Windows platforms using (WSUS) Windows Server Update Service.  • Create software packages and deploy software updates via Numara Track IT Deploy.  • Configure and monitor status of print server in addition to upgrading printer firmware  • Perform server integrations and migration.  • Recommend and perform upgrades on systems to ensure longevity.  • Use Spice Works Network Monitoring and Manage software to monitor the integrity of the network.  • Configure, test and maintain Cisco switch, in-depth knowledge of LAN/WAN technologies.  • Monitor and configure Symantec Endpoint Protection Manager Anti-Virus (SEPM)  • Manage user and group policy with in Active Directory  • Collaborate with procurement staff to purchase hardware and software.  • Follow policies and procedures governing the handling of confidential information. Education ITT Technical Institute - Norwood, OH 1997 to 2001 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, VPN, ENCRYPTION, EXCHANGE, FIREWALLS, NAS, PEREGRINE, SOLARWINDS, AVAYA, VOIP, QUALYS, GHOST, VERITAS, SYMANTEC, R2, MICROSOFT OFFICE, WORKSTATIONS, WINDOWS 10, WINDOWS 7 Certifications/Licenses Security+ September 2016 to September 2019