IT Manager (Northern California Coast) <span class="hl">IT</span> Manager (Northern California Coast) IT Manager (Northern California Coast) - Department of Commerce Concord, CA • As IT Manager and Lead person I have extensive experience in Identity and Access Management, Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX), HIPPA, IT Risk Identification and continuously monitoring, working with internal IT audit. Inventory Control, Data Migration, access management and asset management, create and maintain process documentation, Client Acceptance, project coordinator.  • Notable success in technical and system support. Excel at troubleshooting and diagnosing hardware and software problems, including desktop, laptop and remote systems. Solid success at providing technical service to customers and internal associates, take ownership of the task queue, manage it on a daily basis against SLAs.  • Experience supporting high profile and demanding groups  Experience in technical and business analyst using different Ticketing systems. Acts as the "Subject Matter Expert" (SME) and provides business knowledge as needed.  Evaluates and develops various methods of analysis and/or project planning that influence strategic initiatives. Responsible for critical examinations of current business processes and provides recommendations for improving quality  Analyzes and evaluates data gathered from multiple sources. Reconciles differences and applies consistent approaches to data interpretation and performance measurement results.  Engages with business partners and users to ensure that critical strategic decisions are vetted and well thought out prior to implementation  • Skilled at installing, configuring and monitoring hardware and software on all platforms for a major financial institute, provide evidence as per audit request  • Using pre-defined SQL queries analyzed results and flagged if any violations founded, made recommendations run PowerShell scripts, focusing to automate access request.  • RBAC (Role-based access control) review and clean existing roles, secure approvals, and clean up list of users.  • SailPoint, create framework of current process, perform testing and support, gather information and provide it to the architects and integrators for the implementation, daily operations. Work Experience IT Manager (Northern California Coast) Department of Commerce - Oakland, CA January 2019 to Present • Process for new census office  • Create and update documentation "How To"  • Oversee IT operational (VOIP, Network, IPads, Laptops, Desktop)  • Repair and image laptop and desktop  • Troubleshot IPads and IPhones, using Workone.  • Maintain desktop, laptops, tablets  • Asset Management (ACT)  • InCharge of all Property assets.  • Receive and assign computer devices.  • GSA Certifications.  • Maintain Network Closet, made recommendations how maintain the room cool, (ventilation and Independent AC system).  • Certification for HSPD-12 Badging ( Security Officer, Sponsor, Activator, Administrator, Adjudicator, Registrar)  Environment: Windows 10, iPads, iPhones, Dell laptops & Desktop, Cisco VOIP Phones, Switch, Network Closet.  Software: O365, Adobe, RSA Token, Remedy ticketing system, MOJO, VDI, Citrix console, Foxit, Active Directory, Active Directory Console, air-watch, ACT, MCM, LiMA, Workone, Box, IAM / Business Analyst John Muir Health Care - Walnut Creek, CA October 2018 to January 2019 • Access Management, review the access review project  • Talk to business partners, enforce the compliance of the access, guide managers and above with any question regarding the review and the process  • Evaluate and completing any missing information within Security Risk Evaluation  • Identify Epic templates in relationship with job code, (similar to RBAC), by creating a matrix and breaking down access and applications.    Environment: Windows 7  Software: Service Now, SailpointIQ, AD, Citrix, Office365, Epic, OneNote, Symantec VIP Access, VMWare Horizon client, shared point. IAM / Information Security / Business Analyst/Project Coordinator Stanford Health Care, Newark - Palo Alto, CA February 2018 to August 2018 • Project coordinator, creating, implementing the RBAC for new hospital, data mining (over 600 applications),  • RBAC (Role-based access control) review and clean existing roles, secure approvals, clean existing list of users, and heavy use of AD.  • Identify applications for new roles, Interaction with the Solution Architect (SA) team.  • Leiberman Privileged Identity Management.  • Strong analytical and problem-solving skills, detail oriented & organized approach, excellent communication, developed interpersonal skills.  • Experience building relationships, and collaborating across a flat and diverse org, including cross-functional technical partner teams in a fast paced environment.  • Coordinate cross-functional team; perform remediation efforts as required Identify internal tooling where automation of repetitive manual processes could help deliver impact.  • Talked to business partners to identifying basic applications for roles  • Part of weekly meeting with directors, review progress and score card and miles stones  • Creating entitlements and adding users to respective entitlements, secure approvals for RBAC,  • Member of testing group for Windows 10, VDI and Imprivata,  • Broadly defined, update practices and policies following HIPPA and enterprise standards.  • Assist in monitor project progress and handle any issues that arise, act as the point of contact and communicate project status to all participants,  • Create and maintain comprehensive project documentation, work with the Project Manager to eliminate road block, assist in assign tasks to internal teams  • Running PowerShell Scripts for onboarding, off boarding users, (small editing)  • Meeting with apps owners to automate user access request.  • Process request in Service Now ticketing system.  Environment: Windows 10, 7  Software: Service Now, BOX, SharePoint, AD, Citrix, Office 365, PowerShell, Impravada, OneNote, Big-IP Edge Client, DUO, Cisco Jabber, Visio Business Analyst National MI - Emeryville, CA August 2017 to October 2017 • Security Compliance  • Reviewing the implementation of STIG ( Security Technical Implementation Guide) cybersecurity methodology for standardizing security protocols with the infrastructure platform, servers, networks, databases and application.  • Lender review assessment as part of the annual assessment or for a brand new Lender  • Performing and reviewing the vendor assessments, using SIG (Standardized Information Gathering)  • I actively participated in the planning and execution of compliance auditing of Infrastructure.  • Identifying SOC controls and having meeting with potential control owner with help of external auditors.  • Collecting information for transition to new application CB1 (cyber one security) and adding the SIG Questionnaire to new tool.  • Collecting SOX (Regulatory Compliance) evidences per Audit request  • Review company policies, and collect evidences regarding access, requested by Internal Auditor  Environment: Windows 10  Software: Remedy Force, LDAP, Citrix, MS Office suite, one note, shared point, visio. Information Security / Business Analyst / IAM FIRST REPUBLIC BANK, San Francisco - Walnut Creek, CA October 2015 to June 2017 • Experience providing Identity and Access Management (IAM) security solutions  • Worked in a fast-paced, deadline driven environment, and implemented security standards.  • Full life cycle management for IAM applications.  • RBAC (Role-based access control) review and clean existing roles, secure approvals, clean existing list of users.  • Talked to business partners to identifying basic applications for roles  • Application Access Review Control, SOX regulatory applications.  • Data project, QA testing. File Shares and File Share Access management.  • Heavy use of Active Directory: create IDs and global groups, assign permission, Privileged Access Management (PAM); monitored AIM mailbox, ensure timely response,  • Strong analytical and problem-solving skills, detail oriented & organized approach, excellent communication, developed interpersonal skills.  • Experience building relationships, and collaborating across a flat and diverse org, including cross-functional technical partner teams in a fast paced environment.  • Coordinate cross-functional team; perform remediation efforts as required Identify internal tooling where automation of repetitive manual processes could help deliver impact.  • SoD (Separation of duties), provision, de-provision, transfer users, and ad-hoc requests.  • Sail Point IQ, create framework of current process, perform testing and support, gather information and provide it to the architects and integrators for the implementation, daily operations.  • Daily Operations process all requests from ServiceNow review tickets.  • Resolved 15 to 20 escalated tickets per day from walk-ups, escalation, telephone, and email.  Environment: Windows 7  Software: Tivoli Client, Visio, Office Suite, Lexis Nexis, Active Directory, Powershell, ServiceNow, Fiserv (CheckFree, Total Plus, weiland account analysis, compass), Intuit, Appian, SailPoint IQ, Funtech (payplus, parc), AFS, image Centre, Trusteer Rapport (prevents banking fraud), Cisco client, Citrix, Juniper, Veracode, Leiberman Privileged Identity Management. Information Security / Business Analyst McKesson - San Francisco, CA April 2015 to October 2015 • Handled inventory control, troubleshooting software and hardware.  • Installed new images, repair laptops, provide internal customer service.  • Excellent organizational skills and as a solid team player, multi task.  • Configure email using Outlook, Data Migration, and refresh equipment, following HIPPA and enterprise standards.  Environment: Windows 7, apple OS  Software: Remedy, McAfee encryption, MS Office, in house applications, VPN. AVP/ Information Security / IAM/ Business Analyst/ Internal IT Auditor/ Risk BANK OF AMERICA - Concord, CA October 2006 to March 2015 • Working experience with Identity and Access Management (IAM) Audit Findings, risk assessments, remediation planning, Information Security and IT audit, Access review, Exercises judgment within broadly defined practices and policies. Collaborated with risk and governance partners on information security critical priorities.  • Subject Matter Expert (SME) with IAM, Security Operations, Sarbanes Oxley Act, (SOX) compliance,  • Risk Identification & Monitoring to proactively identify risk.  • Strong analytical and problem-solving skills, detail oriented & organized approach, excellent communication, developed interpersonal skills.  • Experience building relationships, and collaborating across a flat and diverse org, including cross-functional technical partner teams in a fast paced environment.  • Coordinate cross-functional team; perform remediation efforts as required Identify internal tooling where automation of repetitive manual processes could help deliver impact.  • Inventory Control, Data Migration, Asset Management,  • Trained teammates with new applications, created documents. Managed over 1200 applications, supporting over 100,000 users.  • Team Member of Automation Process Design for ARM project to design new workflow to automate access request, knowledge of .NET tool as the centralized tool.  • RBAC (Role-based access control) review and clean existing roles, secure approvals, clean existing list of users.  • Talked to business partners to identifying basic applications for roles  • Documentation of current process, gather information and provide it to the architects and integrators for the implementation, perform testing.  • Daily Operations process all requests from Access Request Manager (ARM) review tickets.  • Heavy use of Active Directory, created global groups, assigned permission. Privileged User Management, (PUM). Monitored IAM mailbox, Ad-hoc request.  • On-boarded applications into ARM, created the user interface (.net tool). Have meetings with Application owners discuss the new process, create new interface to accommodate the new application updated the service catalog, promotes the changes to production environment, Create and maintain process documentation.  • Performs forensic analysis using network sniffer (Wireshark) to analyzing network packet and capture data and inspect network traffic.  • IT Monitoring Systems for monthly reporting for Internal IT Audits. Collaborates with risk and governance partners on critical priorities, documented evidence. Using pre-defined SQL queries, analyzed results and flagged if any violations founded, made recommendations, meeting with Managers, Risk and Governance Team and provided proof of findings and talk about resolutions, understanding all policies and procedures by Governance team guidelines.  • Application Access Review Control, SOX, and other applications with potential risks, review Policies and Procedures, lead meetings with Risk and Governance members and Application Managers  • Using Agile methodology, working with a team of developers for permit to build / permit to operate as part of the SDLC (software development life cycle)  • Lender review assessment as part of the annual assessment or for a brand new Lender  • Performing and reviewing the vendor assessments, using SIG questionnaire  • Conducted user access review, support retail and commercial lending, appraiser, MLO. Officer / Sr. System Support Analyst BANK OF AMERICA, Concord - San Francisco, CA November 2002 to October 2006 • Supported users nationwide by telephone, email, and traveled across the country to refresh machines.  • Created and maintained process documentation, Active Directory, Data Migration.  • Configured the new equipment and provided Customer Service.  • Provided hands-on training to new team members, provided "how to" documentation and traveled nationwide to provide training, support retail and commercial lending, appraiser, MLO  • Created and maintained process documentation, add users and software into SCCM.  • Provided general desktop assistance as needed.  Environment: Windows 95, 98, NT, 2000, XP, Windows 7  Software: Tivoli Client, Visio, Office Suite, Powershell, SQL, VPN Cisco client, Visual Mortgage, Norton, Active Directory, Peregrine ticketing systems, Citrix, Inventory Control, VOIP Phones, Cisco Call Manager CUCDM (cisco unified communication domain manager) Manager/I.T. Department GRANT THORNTON, LLP, San Francisco - San Jose, CA August 2001 to October 2002 Lead Technician /System Analyst / LAN Administration BANK OF AMERICA - San Francisco, CA March 2000 to July 2001 Team Lead, Sr. Support Analyst / Jr. DBA Data Warehouse PROVIDIAN FINANCIAL - San Francisco, CA March 1999 to February 2000 LAN Admin / Support Miadora.com - San Mateo, CA June 1988 to March 1999 Education Electronics Heald Institute of Technology - Martinez, CA 1993 Bachelors in Computer Science in Computer Science Business Administration Universidad Nueva San Salvador 1987 Skills Strategic Planning, Network Administration, exchange, Customer Service