Project Manager Project Manager Deputy Program Manager - VET Engineering Fayetteville, NC Experienced and innovative team player. Work Experience Project Manager Agile Defense - Fort Bragg, NC February 2019 to July 2019 Responsible for ensuring that all project activities are performed and completed in a timely, cost-effective, and efficient manner.    I am responsible for understanding requirements and ensuring that program personnel are meeting deliverable requirements.    I am responsible for the quality, content, and prompt delivery of all task and contractual deliverables associated with the program. I am responsible for planning, organizing, controlling, directing, and staffing the technical, administrative, financial, contractual and personnel actions required of the program. Serves as the secondary customer point for contact for the program. Responsible for proper utilization, capability and accuracy of data within the Management Information System. Support the team with continuous improvement and standardization plans necessary to achieve program quality, delivery and cost targets at all program functions. Anticipate problems and works to proactively mitigate them. Ensure tasks are completed within estimated time frames and budget constraints. Schedules and assigns duties to direct reports. Provide daily supervision and direction to staff monitors each task and keeps Government Programs leadership abreast of all problems and accomplishments. Anticipate problems related to operational areas and environmental and human factors, and then determine contingency requirements and solutions. I work remote and onsite as needed to insure accountability to customer and instill confidence in processes and planni Project Manager Agile Defense - Fort Bragg, NC February 2019 to July 2019 Responsible for ensuring that all project activities are performed and completed in a timely, cost-effective, and efficient manner.    I am responsible for understanding requirements and ensuring that program personnel are   Meeting contract deliverables and timelines.    I am responsible for the quality, content, and prompt delivery of all task and contractual deliverables associated with the program. I am responsible for planning, organizing, controlling, directing, and staffing the technical, administrative, financial, contractual and personnel actions required of the program. Serves as the secondary customer point for contact for the program. Responsible for proper utilization, capability and accuracy of data within the Management Information System. Support the team with continuous improvement and standardization plans necessary to achieve program quality, delivery and cost targets at all program functions. Anticipate problems and works to proactively mitigate them. Ensure tasks are completed within estimated time frames and budget constraints. Schedules and assigns duties to direct reports. Provide daily supervision and direction to staff monitors each task and keeps Government Programs leadership abreast of all problems and accomplishments. Anticipate problems related to operational areas and environmental and human factors, and then determine contingency requirements and solutions. I work remote and onsite as needed to insure accountability to customer and instill confidence in processes and planni Deputy Program Manager VET Engineering March 2018 to February 2019 Responsible for ensuring that all project activities are performed and completed in a timely, cost-effective, and efficient manner.    I am responsible for understanding requirements and ensuring that program personnel are fulfilling Sponsor requirements.    I am responsible for the quality, content, and prompt delivery of all task and contractual deliverables associated with the program. I am responsible for planning, organizing, controlling, directing, and staffing the technical, administrative, financial, contractual and personnel actions required of the program. Serves as the secondary customer point for contact for the program. Responsible for proper utilization, capability and accuracy of data within the Management Information System. Support the team with continuous improvement and standardization plans necessary to achieve program quality, delivery and cost targets at all program functions. Anticipate problems and works to proactively mitigate them. Ensure tasks are completed within estimated time frames and budget constraints. Schedules and assigns duties to direct reports. Provide daily supervision and direction to staff monitors each task and keeps Government Programs leadership abreast of all problems and accomplishments. Anticipate problems related to operational areas and environmental and human factors, and then determine contingency requirements and solutions. I work remote and onsite as needed to insure accountability to customer and instill confidence in processes and planning. Senior Systems Administrator VET Engineering October 2016 to March 2018 Responsible for general and advanced server administration. Cloud migration planning, management and maintenance within Azure. Produced extensive network design and documentation for both Azure and on Premises equipment implementation. Developed a contingency plan in coordination with the G-6 to ensure continuous service to the USARC ARNet customers. Develop applications that demonstrate ideas to functionally illustrate a proof of concept for the Army Reserve. Develop intricate workflows that rationalize and simplify interconnected business silos. Migration Management Planning and tracker of Server 2008R2 to Server 2012R2 and SQL Server 2008R2 to SQL Server 2016. Lead Engineer on Azure Cloud Services for the USAR G8. IT Contingency Planner ICP Systems October 2015 to November 2016 Within the scope of the G-6 IT functions of the USARC Network, identify potential Business Interruptions, develop safeguards against these interruptions, and implement recovery procedures in the event of a business interruption. Provide documentation and training on Contingency Planning concepts and procedures.  Disaster Recovery - Safeguard data processing operations by identifying potential problem areas and single points of failure that may result in interruptions to critical data processing operations. Develop and implement Disaster Recovery, Data Sensitivity, Library Management, Back-up and Recovery, and Disaster Recovery Plans and Procedures. Document Business recovery procedures and develop safeguards. Document Business Recovery Plans and Procedures governing the remote Business Offices and Operations associated with the organization. Insure that Corporate Asset Protection procedures cover critical Business Resources located at Business Offices. Develop Risk Management Plans Identify and Categorize outage exposures that could cause a business interruption, then obtain Insurance and Vendor agreements to safeguard against a disaster event. Responsible for insuring that Business and Regulatory Requirements are adhered to and that implemented recovery procedures and contracts are cost justifiable.    • Collateral duties as a SharePoint Administrator, Content Manager, Developer for the CIO G-6.  • Assisting with Knowledge Management archiving and data structure arrangement of the articles and artifacts residing on the G-6 SharePoint enclave.  • Create custom automated SharePoint Applications for use in operations.  • Planned, Organized and Executed Failover Capabilities Exercise between Alternate sites improving the resilience of the ARNet.  • Assist in Re-Engineering the Integrated Test Lab which supports the Enterprise Network of over 50k users. SharePoint Administrator / Developer J2 Associates November 2014 to March 2016 Responsible for collecting requirements translating to a planning phase, executing a design phase, chairing the review and develop customized solutions to accommodate the needs of the clients.  • Create uniquely branded SharePoint site theme in keeping with the clients pre-existing theme  • Create an assessment site to collect specific metrics regarding service specific equipment assets and services  • Provide a Business intelligence solution raw data input into the SharePoint system provided to the engineers for output to the field with a systematic analytic recommendation for service wide standardization of equipment tables.  • Automated the Personnel Access Request forms that authorize access to application site which is critical in the processes of creating, modifying, and deleting SharePoint group accounts as needed  • Configure SharePoint services and settings to optimize the experience within the application  • Set, configure, and maintain the role based authentication of access levels for users in the SharePoint environment.  • Develop plan to migrate from a Corporate Enterprise environment to a DOD Enterprise environment.  • Configure Microsoft Office SharePoint  • Configure SharePoint services and settings  • Assist in maximizing the potential of SharePoint as it relates to the assigned assessment  • Customizing List Features, Workflows and Document Libraries using SharePoint Object Model programming  • Offer a proven ability to analyze problems and root causes, developed innovative solutions to business challenges and streamlining operations.  • Migration planning outline generation and planning coordination  • Daily Log mining to determine access correlation on a daily basis  • Extensive test planning for migration from Corporate SharePoint environment to DOD SharePoint. Senior Consultant Double Apex LLC July 2013 to September 2015 Communicate with Government and Military Management on daily project status and identify areas of necessity to enhance productivity and efficiency on the project. Maintain an enterprise infrastructure of 60+ virtual and physical servers on a daily basis. Write, test and implement backup and recovery procedures daily routine and extended planning. I am responsible for technical documentation of daily progress and changes on site. Create integrated SharePoint survey forms which provide statistical results for acceptance of deliverables and provide efficiency enhancements for instructional improvements with classes on deliverables.  • Develop imagery and themes which represent the units we support for use in customized SharePoint Web Parts and Applications  • Manage and maintain over 60+ Hyper-V and physical servers to include Windows Updates and patches, Backup and Recovery, and scaling the environment.  • Assist in custom SharePoint Application implementation and testing.  • Responsible for maintaining an Internal Test Lab farm for testing before implementation of developed software for Pre-Production and Production environments.  • Coordinate with the Hitachi Storage Area Network (SAN) engineer for scaling of the environments to support operations.  • Develop Curriculum for custom Applications developed on the SharePoint 2010 platform for US Army Reserve Command wide consumption and acceptance  • Plan, Develop, and create E-learn/skill soft self-education modules that teach basic and advanced user functionality for applications developed in house  • SQL management for space and functionality to support the SharePoint environment health  • Triage health status of SQL and SharePoint environments with the Microsoft PFE's  • Gather requirements for current applications and revision improvements  • Conduct Personnel quarterly evaluations for company employees to determine bonus eligibility  • Technical administrator for 6 multi-star level applications with a no fail effort supporting upwards of 20,000 users on any given day  • Manage backups of systems and restoration testing and implementation.  • Provide Audio Visual support and meeting coordination for Senior level Government officials and their corporate counterparts.  • Processing support desk tickets that includes Remote troubleshooting to clients, over the phone and email support. Business System Analyst Platform Development Team July 2012 to June 2013 Produced Graphic Designs for Federal IT Consulting (FEDITC) working to produce an internal SharePoint site, that has SharePoint functionality, but a commercial customized look and feel. Conduct analysis of project parameters, timelines and customers immediate needs to assist engineers, technicians and customers in resolving complex task issues to meet project deadlines.  • Develop imagery and themes which represent the units we support.  • Digitally recreate Unit crests, insignia, & other images in vector format.  • Assist with Server installation.  • Design layout of the User Interface.  • Design Page Layouts from Visio mockups to produce functional SharePoint pages.  • Develop E-learn capabilities, outlines and curriculum to assist in acceptance and training of users with custom applications developed on the project.  • Complete physical installation of 16 Production, Production Preview (Staging) and 4 Testing and Develop Environment servers including wiring into the infrastructure.  • Security analysis to ensure the server implementation is within all DOD & USARC regulations and policies.  • Coordinate SAN implementation with designated SAN infrastructure specialists  • Input, track and identify requirements or shortfalls for the short term, intermediate and long term completion markers within the project.  • Coordinate IP assignment and implementation plan for 80 Virtual Servers within the production environment.  • Responsible for day to day status reports of progress of Platform Team.  • Responsible for patching Fiber Connections to SAN and coordination with SAN Engineers to accomplish desired configurations for project completion. Technical Writer L3 Communications April 2012 to June 2012 Technical writer for L3 Communications, produce procedural course material for use in Satellite systems from setup, troubleshooting, maintenance, and systems retrograde.    • Develop curriculum for Courses on various satellite communications suites to include supporting software and hardware.  • Evaluate systems operational procedures and organize the matter for presentation in a manner that a non-technical operator may successfully deploy and operate the systems in support of Unit operations and functions.  • Work closely with engineers and instructors to gather procedures and systems information to produce manuals for course curriculum. Additional training material production to include, Instructor slides, quick reference guides, cheat sheets, etc.  • Film, edit, and produce instructor training critique films for use during instructor certification training. Webmaster IAW the Department of Defense April 2010 to March 2012 Manager, technical advisor, policy and planning director, graphic designer for all system web administration. Collateral duties consisted of working as the Assistant Public Affairs Chief in the absence of the Chief ensuring that all missions were accomplished at the highest of standards.    • Developed and Managed content for the MARSOC command website which supports over 1700 personnel and 3 Marine Special Operations Battalions  • Subject matter expert on Internet matters within the command as they relate to the publicly accessible web sites and the electronic dissemination of public information, IAW the Department of Defense, U.S. Navy, Marine Corps and USSOCOM policies regulating format, content and maintenance.  • Management of the websites using Hyper Text Markup Language (HTML), Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), and SharePoint for content management.  • Collect and analyze data associated with the visitor traffic at the command web sites.  • Provided over 100+ hours of technical and artistic support for Interior Design special projects directed by the MARSOC Chief of Staff.  • Gathered open source materials for Information Operations (IO) training and briefs presented for training MARSOC unit and team pre-deployment training.  • Provided Photographic, Video, Graphic Design, and editing for daily and special needs projects.  • Lead MARSOC coordinator for migration from .mil domain to DMA public access domain for all MARSOC sites.  • Assisted in writing policy letters for the acceptance and implementation of social media.  • Managed user registration, permissions and training of content providers from the Major Subordinate Commands (MSCs) of MARSOC Special Operations Senior Computer Network Operator June 2004 to April 2010 Responsible for testing, evaluation, documenting, and development of tools and applications in support of directed CNO Operations. Establishing and maintaining UNIX and Windows server domains and deployable communication packages.    • Conducted Secretary of Defense and Joint Chiefs of Staff approved and directed CNO operations.  • Researched and developed next generation CNO tools and applications; attention to detail and troubleshooting skills consistently resulted in by name requests to resolve the most challenging technical problems.  • Researched and developed next generation CNO tools and applications; attention to detail and troubleshooting skills consistently resulted in by name requests to resolve the most challenging technical problems  • Developed and standardized a system imaging process; enhanced the overall testing capability by 70 percent saving 200+ man hours in testing build time.  • Researched, coordinated purchase and implementation of IXIA packet generation and network simulation equipment modules increasing the effective real world network simulation within our lab environment with quantifiable and controllable parameters.  • Validated implemented and troubleshot new and emerging CNO capabilities with external organizations; consistently achieved outstanding results during emergency situations.  • Satellite High Frequency Controller on Global Mobile Response Mission Team supporting Special Operations controlling 4 main digital networks  • Communications Security Supervisor responsible for maintaining over 270 Top Secret / Secret keys Assistant Data Chief Expeditionary Firewall Team August 2000 to June 2004 Responsible for the deployment, configuration, maintenance and monitoring of active network equipment, to include all hardware and software utilized. Training and supervising teams of expeditionary network Marines supporting Joint and USMC combat missions.    • Designed implemented and maintained deployed network environments including WAN and LAN environments and links.  • Managed remote administration of base network infrastructure equipment including, but not limited to Cisco Routers, CISCO PIX, switches, BSDI Gauntlet firewalls, IDS monitors and network sensors.  • Developed procedures and practices for testing reliability and stability of software components and interfaces for network environments.  • Responsible for systems data availability, backup planning, disaster planning and implementation  • Network monitoring for anomalies that impact network performance, security or both internal and external  • Performed local area network configuration and system administration of servers and workstation to include Windows NT, Windows 2000, BSDI, Solaris, and Unix servers.  • Constructed detailed network diagrams for the location of infrastructure equipment as well as workstations and servers.  • Performed troubleshooting tasks associated with network connectivity, desktop configuration, printer connectivity, and network access.  • Performed hardware maintenance and upgrades to over 1,000 personal computers.  • Helpdesk technician providing technical support for end users.  • Responsible for the creation and maintenance of new user and computer accounts.  • Responsible for Bastion host suite operation, connectivity, configuration and maintenance.  • Taught Deployed Security Interdiction Device basic operations and employment to 3D Marine Aircraft Wing communications platoon. Deployed Network Security Interdiction Device Team Leader Escalating Calls 2000 to 2004 with 9th Communications Battalion from 2000-2004. In training and in the combat theater if there were technical situations which I could not solve within a reasonable amount of time then I would escalate calls to appropriate outlets to handle said situation. Track it until it is resolved and ensure proper annotation of the event and resolution to create a historical reference point to refer to in case of repeat or similar instances occurred.    Unix OR Window Platform - I have experience with Sun Solaris, BSDI, Linux, Unix, and all flavors of the Windows platform beginning with Windows 3.1 to Windows 8 on desktop platforms. On the server side I have worked through Windows NT to Server 2008 R2 and I am beginning to learn Server 2012. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Grantham University October 2012 Associate of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Grantham University December 2011 Skills SECURITY (10+ years), SHAREPOINT (6 years), LINUX (5 years), UNIX (10+ years), NETWORK SECURITY (5 years) Certifications/Licenses Cloud + January 2016 to Present Risk Management Framework (RMF) November 2015 to Present Additional Information Core Competencies  • Microsoft Server 2003/2008 • Project Management • Technical Research  • Microsoft Active Directory • Project Leadership • Cisco Network Systems  • Microsoft Exchange • Mentoring & Coaching • UNIX/LINUX  • Scripting & Documentation • Software Test Implementation • Defect/Bug Tracking  • Adobe Captive • SQL 2008 R2 • SharePoint 2010  • Adobe Creative Suite • Microsoft Office Suite • SharePoint 2013  • Infopath • SharePoint Designer • Beta Testing  • Disaster Recovery • Backup & Recovery Planning • RMF  • Microsoft Project 2010 & 2013 • CRM Fundamentals • CRM for SME's  • Microsoft Business Continuity • E-Mass • Azure  • Dynamics 365 • Data Analytics    ? Systems / Technologies: PCs / Servers • LANs / WANs • Cisco Switchers, Routers • VOIP • VPN • IPS • VERITAS, Virtual Environments VMWare, VirtualBox, Wireless Network Security and Analysis, IXIA, SharePoint, Azure, Cloud Services    ? Platforms: Windows NT / 2000 / XP / 2003 / Vista / 2008 /7 / 10 • Unix • Linux • Macintosh