Cyber Security Engineer Cyber <span class="hl">Security</span> Engineer Cyber Security Engineer - SeNet International Corporation Ijamsville, MD Work Experience Cyber Security Engineer SeNet International Corporation - Fairfax, VA April 2018 to Present • Was tasked to run application vulnerability assessments for contracted systems, which would include local visit to the customers in some cases.  • Running extensive vulnerability tests on external and internal systems for clients  • Used a multitude of security tools such as Kali Linux, Nessus, Nikito, Nmap, Recon-ng and Metasploit.  • Created detailed reports for contracted companies that included vulnerability assessments using a multitude of security tools  • Help assist in Maintaining SeNet network. Ie NAS back ups, New User configuration, Network maintenance, Symantec maintenance, and internal security Cyber Security Analyst Omnitec Solution Inc - Bethesda, MD May 2017 to May 2017 NIMH  • Running extensive vulnerability tests in order to secure the NDAR production and stage instances, while providing the vulnerability reports to NIMH and provide solutions for vulnerabilities that are found to satisfy the "moderate" security level.  • Working with vendors to purchase security tools, such as firewall hardware and vulnerability scanner, as well as, testing the software and hardware to make sure it meets the needs of NIMH and the NDAR site  • Trouble shooting all security issues within NIMH and working with the system engineers to resolve issues that occur through vulnerability testing while using strong communication and technical skills to assist the engineers  • Overseeing the transfer of Production and Stage from onsite NIH servers to AWS cloud instances to insure that the proper security measures are implement with PII being transfer over to cloud storage.  • Was given the privileges to run penetration tests using tools within Kali Linux against our NIMH instances to make sure our firewall and security settings are working at full efficiency.  • Helped write the cyber security portion of our contract that was eventually rewarded to Omnitec at the end of July, as well as wrote the multiple security documents in order to be ready for security assessment as required by the new contract.  • Used MobaXterm to access servers to configured security settings, including Cipher settings and managing public and private encryption keys within the front facing server as well as backend servers to insure proper security  • Scanning all servers within our system using Nessus and applying proper patching to secure the system.  • Provided monthly Security reports to NIMH to inform them of the changes that have been made to our Security posture. This includes Patching, hardening and any other security violations that may have occurred and resolved. Systems Analyst TPGSI - Rockville, MD May 2015 to May 2017 HRSA  • Running extensive tests set up by the developers to test new additional programs that the developers are adding to Electonic Hand Book (EHB) before the grantees are able to access the program.  • Trouble shooting all issues within EHB and working with the developers, using my communication and technical skills, to find a solution for the grantees.  • Servicing all 1500 EHB users within HRSA, as well as, 40,000 US grantees that use the EHB system through the use of my technical skills within EHB. Including Desk side support.  • Was able to run multiple reports to provide better ways to interpret the data that Teir 2 and developers process via Excel  • Was able to work under same SLA with 100 percent increase in tickets over course of developer contract changes. Tier 2 IT specialist Ventura - Rockville, MD June 2013 to May 2015 HRSA  • Recognize problems by identifying abnormalities such as malware or viruses, and follow reporting protocols relative to security violations.  • Collaborate with technicians on projects; laptop refresh project, developed power point slides for cellphone refresh training class.  • Assist Fed and Contract staff in the creation, training and implementation of helpdesk SOPs.  • Ensure that HRSA workstations meet HRSA security requirements.  • Provide computer hardware and software support for approximately 2000 federal and contractual personnel  • Configure and deploy computer equipment for new employees. Train new employees on newly installed software and hardware system  • Manage and disseminate helpdesk tickets using the Service Now ticketing system to helpdesk staff and other division staff in OIT when manager was unavailable.  • Member of the "VIP Support Team", providing IT support to HRSA's Administrator and other Senior Level Management Staff.  • Member of a diverse group of helpdesk technicians. Collaborate on IT issues, provide suggestions towards resolution and conduct testing to quickly produce problem resolution. Provide guidance and mentor junior level technicians.  • Inform Customer Service Branch chief and contract Project Manager of any and all helpdesk issues and concerns. Education B.S. in Political Science in Political Science Montgomery College - Rockville, MD August 2017 B.S. in Criminal Law in Criminal Law Frostburg State University - Frostburg, MD Skills SECURITY (2 years), ENCRYPTION (Less than 1 year), NMAP (Less than 1 year), LINUX (2 years), SYMANTEC (Less than 1 year), Cyber Security, Information Security, Siem, Nessus (2 years) Additional Information An energetic team leader and communicator and self-motivated professional with a passion in the Cyber Security field and with the ability to be self-efficient with excellent people skills. Excellent research and writing skills along with the ability to work efficiently and effectively in a fast paced and heavy workload environment. Ability to work collaboratively to resolve problems and to motivate team members to achieve personal and organizational objectives.    SKILLS  • Security Tools: FireEye, Netwitness, Nmap, Beef, OWASP ZAP, Tenable Security Center, Symantec Risk Automation Suite, Wireshark, ELK Stack, Nikto, Recon-ng, Dirbuster, Eyewitness,  • Forensics Tools: Kali Linux. Security Onion  • Encryption Tools, Bitlocker,  • Operating Systems: Windows 8/7/Vista/XP/2000 Professional & Enterprise, Microsoft Windows NT/2000/2003/2008 Server, Macintosh OS9 and OSX, Linux & Ubuntu all Distribution  • Software Packages: Office XP/2003/2007/2010  • Enterprise Tools: Lumension Patch Management, Symantec Endpoint Protection Manager, LANDesk  • Hardware: HP and Dell Servers, HP and Dell desktops/laptops, Apple desktops, Linux based OS  • Network Hardware: Cisco switches 1900/2900, Cisco routers 800/1600/2500, hubs, switches 10/100/1000BaseT interface cards  • Network Printers: HP, Canon, Dell network printers  • Networking: LAN/WAN, Ethernet, Fast Ethernet, Gigabit,  • Protocols: TCP/IP, DHCP, DNS, PPP, SMTP, POP3, SNMP,  • Languages: Python, Linux