IAM Systems Engineer - OKTA IAM Systems Engineer - OKTA Freelance Video Production - StaffMeUp.com and IMDB Playa del Rey, CA Accomplished Senior Systems Engineer / Administrator, with 15+ years in the technical and service desk field.  Extremely fast leaner, excellent communication and diagnostic skills, as well as experience in all aspects of  video production. Work Experience IAM Systems Engineer - OKTA KelTech - Los Angeles, CA October 2018 to Present Implementing internal IT infrastructures.   Okta, SALM 2.0, IAM, SSO Builds Senior Systems Engineer Bird Rides, Inc - Los Angeles, CA August 2018 to October 2018 Implemented the following from the ground up: Okta, Bettercloud, Jamf, Zendesk, Oomnitza, Meraki, Duo,  Apple Business Manager, and Foxpass.  • Admin and Support of; Zendesk, Slack, Adobe Creative Cloud, GSuite, DialPad, Apple Deployment Program,  Apple Volume Purchasing Program, Office 365, Casper suite, Zoom, OfficeSpace, Envoy, Lucidchart, and multiple network (WAN/LAN and WiFi).  • Provide advanced troubleshooting, configuration, and installation of various desktop software, and hardware  in a 90/10 Mac / Windows environment.  • Deploy software / Updates to Self Service, via JAMF.  • Provide support via Remote (Apple Remote Desktop / TeamViewer) Senior Systems Engineer Fullscreen Media - Los Angeles, CA April 2016 to March 2018 • Implementation and integration of Okta with Namely, Bettercloud, GSuite, Slack, Adobe CC, Meraki, and Office 365.  • Admin and Support of; Zendesk, Slack, Adobe Creative Cloud, Google Apps, MegaPath, Apple Deployment  Program, Apple Volume Purchasing Program, MS Office, Server OSX, Active Directory, Casper suite, and multiple network (WAN/LAN and WiFi).  • Provide advanced troubleshooting, configuration, and installation of various desktop software, and hardware.  • Create maintain and deploy images. (OSX and Windows)  • Deploy software / Updates to Self Service, via Casper suite.  • Provide support via Remote (Apple Remote Desktop / TeamViewer)  • Scan local network for vulnerabilities and security risks  • Locate and repair or eliminate network / system vulnerabilities.  • Perform penetration tests to network and systems.  • Provide information and network security advice and implementation for a more secure environment on a daily basis.  • Create and maintain secure content production facilities for unreleased and secure content.  • Ingest and digest of unreleased and secure content to and from major studios. Freelance Video Production StaffMeUp.com and IMDB 2007 to 2018 Cinematographer / Editor / Grip / Production Assistant  • Direct and produce media projects for clients  • Camera operation and use of editing software (Final Cut Pro).  • Create proposals and demo packages for marketing to potential clients.  • StaffMeUp.com and IMDB credited and active member. Systems Administrator (Mac OSX environment) Digital Kitchen - Los Angeles, CA July 2015 to April 2016 • Provide advanced troubleshooting, configuration, and installation of various desktop software, and hardware  • Maintain and support network (WAN/LAN and WiFi)  • OSX Server Administration.  • Create maintain and deploy images. (Server OS X / DeployStudio)  • Support all aspects of production / post production.  Experience, ~~~~~~: IT / AV Specialist, IT & Engineering OWN - Los Angeles, CA October 2014 to August 2015 • Provide basic and advanced troubleshooting, configuration, and installation of various desktop software, and hardware in a mixed environment (90% Mac 10% PC)  • Maintain and support network.  • Deploy and update software and maintain computers with Casper Suite.  • Maintain and deploy images, both Mac OSX and PC.  • Works directly with and supports all SVP's / EVP's, talent/guests, and the CEO (Miss Winfrey) Digital Imaging Technician (DIT) OWN - Los Angeles, CA November 2014 to April 2015 • Maintain all data cards / drives on set.  • Unload all data from media cards to drives.  • Safely transport media cards and drives to and from set.  • Provide troubleshooting, configuration, and installation of various desktop software applications on MAC  computers.  • Provide trouble shooting for computer hardware configurations, and networking issues.  • Works with Final Cut Pro.  • Work directly with comedian talent and guests. Director / Cinematographer / Editor (Freelance) Sheila Kelley SFactor - Los Angeles, CA July 2013 to December 2014 • Direct and produce media projects for SFactor website.  • Camera operation and use of editing software (Final Cut Pro). Stagehand / Grip / Video Specialist I.A.T.S.E - Washington, DC 2006 to 2014 • Loading / unloading equipment.  • Set up / build stages  • Operation of Audio, Lighting, and Video equipment.  • Basic rigging. System Engineer [Top Secret Government Security Clearance] Ntrepid Corporation - San Diego, CA February 2012 to September 2013 • Created OS X System Images, updated, and deployed the system images via NetRestore (Mac Server).  • Maintained and managed multiple Mac Mini Servers retaining the NetBoot servers.  • Provided support to users, assisting them with hardware, software, network and account issues.  • Maintained a high degree of customer service for all support queries and adhered to all service management  principles.  • Troubleshot Windows and Mac operating systems and numerous Windows and Mac based applications as well as mobile hardware support Desktop Support Technician Level 2 National Institutes of Health - EO/OD/OIT - Bethesda, MD November 2010 to January 2012 Government Public Trust Security Clearance]  • Imaged, updated, and deployed new computer systems both PC and Mac.  • Provided support to customers, assisting them with hardware, software, network and account issues, on site  and remotely.  • Troubleshot Windows and Mac operating systems and numerous Windows and Mac based applications as well as mobile hardware support (Blackberry, iPhone, and iPad).  • Worked daily with Windows 7, Windows XP, Mac OSX 10.6 and 10.7, BMC Remedy, Active Directory,  Altiris, along with Microsoft Outlook, Word, excel, Remote Desktop and Apple Remote Desktop. User Support Services Technician (Independent Contractor) Kensington Fire Protection Services - Kensington, MD 2005 to 2012 • Troubleshot network and server issues locally and remotely.  • Upgraded and installed new software and hardware.  • Worked with Mac OSX.  • On call support / local and remote troubleshooting. Service Desk Coordinator Bank-Fund Staff Federal Credit Union - Washington, DC April 2010 to October 2010 • Provided tier 1 end user support via phone; email requests, and self-service help desk.  • Assigned and escalated work orders to Tier 2 and Tier 3 Network and Database support Technicians after assessing the magnitude of the user's issues.  • Experience with Active Directory, Footprints, Interaction Client, Remote Desktop, and Remote Desktop as- sistance as well as multiple financial system applications. Mac Encryption Technician [Government Public Trust Security Clearance] National Institutes of Health - NHGRI - Bethesda, MD January 2010 to April 2010 • Updated user MacBook laptops with operating system and NIH/NHGRI software.  • Prepared users systems and encrypted all user accounts with File Vault.  • Worked with Mac OSX. 10.4, 10.5 and 10.6    Experience, ~~~~~~: Customer Service Analyst Level 2 Micros Systems, Inc - Columbia, MD February 2009 to August 2009 • Provided first line help desk support to external customers, assisting them with hardware and software prob- lems via phone and email.  • Troubleshot Microsoft XP products and office suite, along with network and server issues remotely.  • Upgraded and installed software and hardware remotely.  • Worked Daily with Clarify, along with Microsoft Outlook, Word, excel and various Remote connectivity  software Education Bachelor of Science in Hardware Full Sail University 2016 University of Maryland 2008 James Hubert Blake High School 2003 Skills Active Directory, System Administrator, Okta, IAM