Information Assurance Specialist Information Assurance Specialist Information Assurance Specialist - Solutions by Design Woodbridge, VA Results-oriented, hands-on, versatile IT/Cybersecurity professional with 20 years of expertise in many facets of the industry to include cybersecurity, helpdesk/desktop support, security, and web development/design. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Information Assurance Specialist Solutions by Design - Fort Belvoir, VA September 2015 to Present • Develop, test and maintain the Business and IT Disaster Recovery plans, procedures, and related continuity documentation for the functional elements within the Enterprise in accordance with guidance and policy.  • Develop, test, and maintain the J6 Business and IT DR program for the functional elements within the Enterprise.  • Provide immediate, continuous, accurate and measured response to a disaster, emergency, or other situation that warrants invoking the Information System Continuity Plans (ISCP) or BCPs within the Enterprise.  • Provide support with collecting current data on the status of the Disaster Recovery Program to provide guidance from Information Operations and appropriate Enterprise organizational element representatives.  • Assist with preparing briefings on the status of the program to both DLA Information Operations and the DLA Enterprise with regard to DR/COOP activities and progress.  • Assist with document development and / or revisions (to include briefings).  • Exercise the ISCPs and DR procedures in accordance with DoD Agency Enterprise schedules.  • Assist Information Operations with briefings and updates related to the yearly review of the HQ, Business, and J6 COOP Plans.  • Coordinate and document Enterprise Risk Assessments, Business Process Analysis, and Business Impact Analysis provide personnel and resources necessary to perform the assessment in accordance with current DoD requirements. Information Assurance Officer The Informatics Applications Group, Inc - Fort Belvoir, VA June 2015 to September 2015 • Performed IT security assessments and develop certification and accreditation plans for Federal Government agencies.  • Provided technical, administrative direction, and review for Information Assurance (IA) and security controls.  • Identified industry accepted standards, IT standards for validated data, access control, roles definition, authentication methods and apply to existing systems.  • Reviewed and analyzed existing systems  • Identified business rules and technical requirements as part of strategic development, implementation, and support for an IA Practice.  • Contributed to research and analysis, and translated security policy and requirements to define best methods and practices.  • Provided technical guidance on implementation of security mechanisms and controls.  • Developed System Security documentation, including FIPS-199 determination, eAuthentication, privacy threshold analysis, privacy impact assessment, system security plans (SSP), IA policies, Rules of Behavior, security test and evaluation (ST&E) plans, risk assessment plans and reports, business continuity plans, disaster recovery plans, incident response plans, contingency plan, contingency plan test report, plans of action and milestones (POA&M) development, exception and waiver letters development, annual security control self-assessment, and continuous monitoring activities.  • Participated in systems analysis, systems development, and information technology program management.  • Participated in the development of electronic commerce systems or electronic government projects, including development of agency policies and procedures.  • Worked closely with project managers and senior technical leads to ensure work meets client objectives.  • Participated in the preparation of project briefings and reports.  • Presented oral reports/briefings.  • Developed/contributed to guidelines/plans/policies, analyses and reviews that require IA expertise in the areas of security incident response, IA ticket assignment, tracking and response, vulnerability scans, security assessments, accreditation/certification. Cybersecurity Analyst Microsys LLC - Falls Church, VA February 2012 to June 2015 • Responsible for developing DIACAP documentation.  • Provided Certification and Accreditation subject matter expertise to the government and the government's customers aligned with DIACAP  • Reviewed and assessed COTS, GOTS and other systems/solutions and provide recommendations for their inclusion into the DOD enterprise.  • Utilized the DIACAP standards in the preparation of C&A documentation packages.  • Ensured all systems and applications are secure and fully compliant prior to gaining the Authority to Operation (ATO).  • Developed SOPs and system owner questionnaires to collect data for the C&A of systems inside and outside of the agency.  • Conducted information gathering activities consisting of key personnel interviews and review of customer provided security documentation to determine what security controls have been implemented on information systems.  • Managed multiple tasks which included requirement and interface development, test development, and certification planning  • Provided information assurance support and IAO subject matter expertise to DoD Cybersecurity clients in directives outside of the agency.  • Provided assistance with CYBERCOM Task Orders  • Identified areas of system weakness and ensure that any necessary POAMs were created and executed.  • Ensured systems were scanned and patched monthly.  • Kept C&A packages updated with current information.  • Provided a recommended certification determination based on the validation activities.  • Maintained situational awareness of IA posture (including PO&AM updates), conducted reviews, at least annually, and initiated recertification if required.  • Conducted annual reviews for all Connection Approval Packages (CAPs)  • Verify that security safeguards have been implemented correctly through physical checks. IT Help Desk Representative/ Asset Administrator U.S. Resources/BAE Systems - Fort Belvoir, VA June 2011 to February 2012 • Responsible for receiving and deploying inventory of IT assets.  • Managed and tracked all hardware serial numbers or identification tags into the configuration management database and ensured information is up-to-date, accurate, and auditable.  • Resolved accuracy issues of the inventory database.  • Accountable for the coordination and the transfer of assets between business units.  • Performed periodic inventories of all IT assets and record all findings.  • Responded to requests from end users, managers, and team members for specific IT Asset Management data.  • Manually migrated desktops and laptops from Windows XP to Windows 7.  • Participated in migration quality assurance. IT Help Desk Representative/ Software Asset Administrator Itility, Inc - Chantilly, VA April 2011 to June 2011 • Installed, configured and maintained personal computers, Windows networks, Apple workstations, file servers, network cabling, and other related equipment, devices and systems  • Added, upgraded, and configured disk drives, printers and related equipment.  • Performed and/or oversaw software and application installation and upgrades.  • Planned and implemented network security, including maintaining firewalls, configuring VPN, managing host security, file permissions, file system integrity, and adding and deleting users.  • Developed and conducted various training and instruction for system users on operating systems and other applications.  • Assisted users in maximizing use of networks and computing systems.  • Communicated technical information to nontechnical personnel.  • Install hardware and software.  • Identified and resolved computer system malfunctions and operations problems.  • Organized resources and establish priorities. Installer Softworld, Inc - Fairfax, VA March 2011 to April 2011 • Unpacked and setup new Dell desktop computers and monitors.  • Installed memory and DVI cards in legacy computers.  • Installed switch boxes and cables.  • Provided Tier 1 and Tier 2 support to employees during the installation.  • Packed up old computers. Information Assurance Security Analyst Network Security Systems Plus - Falls Church, VA August 2009 to January 2011 • Provided Information Assurance (DIACAP) application development support.  • Handled IA Support Desk, C&A documentation, and policy analysis support.  • Responsible for the development and maintenance of IA training materials.  • Supported IA Teams with the certification and accreditation (C&A) of DoD systems.  • Performed research for IA Team queries regarding scanning tools, STIGs, DoD 8500 series IA Controls.  • Assisted IA Teams with in-house C&A tool (Trend Analysis Database TAD).  • Maintained Certification and Accreditation (C&A) documents to include the Security Plan, Security Test & Evaluation (ST&E), and Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&M).  • Assisted Team Lead, Engineers, and Security Analysts in preparation of documentation/deliverables and conduct of C&A efforts.  • Reviewed work products for quality control and adherence to DIACAP and other Information Assurance Standards.  • Interfaced with external customers to provide IA subject matter expertise throughout the system development lifecycle.  • Evaluated and assessed compliance with established IA policies and regulations.  • Performed research for C&A documentation utilizing the DoDI 8510.01 "DoD Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation Process (DIACAP).  • Published IA Support Desk Desk SOP. Jr. Web Developer Artel Inc - Falls Church, VA September 2005 to August 2009 • Updated content on Information Assurance Support Environment (IASE) website.  • Handled website administration functions on the IASE.  • Published new material to IASE website.  • Conducted content management of website.  • Provided technical guidance, training, and assistance to content contributors.  • Assisted DoD content contributors in assuring published content is in compliance with DoD and Federal policy.  • Provided first level of customer contact for the IASE Information Desk.  • Provided a full range of IA and INFOSEC support via the DISA operating environments.  • Supported customers with the certification and accreditation (C&A) of their systems.  • Communicated via electronic mail, web interface and telephone with customers in order to troubleshoot and isolate user problems to fully document a trouble ticket and open trouble tickets.  • Conducted telephonic troubleshooting steps to collect pertinent information designed to pinpoint problems and accurately route a ticket to an appropriate agency for resolution.  • Performed research for customer queries.  • Identified resources required for each task.  • Used Remedy ticketing system to accurately log customer service requests, update tickets and manage tickets through their life cycle.  • Kept up to date on all areas of support utilizing IA Training Media. Functional Analyst/IA Support Desk Technician CACI/Artel Inc - Falls Church, VA April 2001 to September 2005 • Supported customers with the certification and accreditation (C&A) of their systems  • Analyzed customer requests for support via e-mail, telephone or web.  • Performed research for customer queries.  • Identified resources required for each task.  • Provided first level of customer contact.  • Entered all support request tickets in Remedy's Action Request System.  • Escalated requests not answered to Tier II Support.  • Provided status of queries to end-users.  • Closed all calls with end users.  • Populated Knowledge Base for FAQ's.  • Provided periodic IA Awareness briefings.  • Kept up to date on all areas of support utilizing IA Training Media.  • Assisted with development of Support Desk SOP's and training. Help Desk/Business Analyst marchFIRST - McLean, VA 2000 to 2001 • Analyzed user-training needs to determine functional and cross-functional requirements.  • Performed functional allocation to identify required tasks and their inter-relationships.  • Identified resources required for each task.  • Provided daily supervision and direction to support staff.  • Defined/Demonstrated work flows and processes.  • Provided career counseling for support staff.  • Developed/Delivered training aids for support personnel. Help Desk Engineer Luminant Worldwide Corporation - Herndon, VA 2000 to 2000 • Developed/Maintained all Help Desk Policy/Procedures documentation.  • Troubleshot/Diagnosed remote-access connectivity issues.  • Responsible for providing daily technical support to network users in various locations.  • Installation/upgrade/maintenance/delivery of software/hardware on desktop/laptop computers.  • Provided over the shoulder training to network users.  • Maintained purchase requisition documents.  • Provided solutions to users with Lotus Notes problems.  • Performed computer repairs and upgrades including devices such as: hard drives, memory, CD-ROM's, Sound, Video, Network, and I/O cards. Scanner, and Printer installation/configuration/light repair.  • Maintained daily backup of Notes and File server. Universal Agent (Part-Time) RCN Corporation - Springfield, VA 1999 to 2000 • Troubleshot Internet connectivity issues for MAC/PC dial-up/cable modem customers.  • Provided telephone support to Internet customers. Technical Support Specialist SAIC - McLean, VA 1995 to 2000 • Responsible for providing daily technical support to network users.  • Installation/upgrade/maintenance/delivery of software/hardware on desktop/laptop computers.  • Analyzed daily network user complaints concerning LAN access, remote dial-in, email, hardware and software issues.  • Conducted Y2K software/hardware audits.  • Responsible for purchase requisitions using SAP software.  • Installation/Configuration/Maintenance/Upgrade of the following software: Lotus Notes, Microsoft Outlook 97, MS Office Professional 97, WinZip, Netscape Communicator/Navigator, Acrobat Reader, Norton Anti-Virus, MS Windows on desktop/laptop computers.  • Administered accounts on Novell 4.11  • Authored the following documentation: Office 95 migration to Office 97, Policies and Procedures of the Help Desk, Laptop/Desktop Configuration Guidelines, and Customer Delivery/Satisfaction Checklist.  • Created/implemented/maintained MS Access database for inventory/workorder tracking.  • Performed computer repairs and upgrades including devices such as: hard drives, CD-ROM's, Sound, Video, Network, and I/O cards. Scanner, and Printer installation. Education MS in Information Assurance Strayer University Woodbridge VA Candidate for MS 2015 to Present MS Management in Project Management Strayer University Woodbridge VA 2011 to 2013 BS in Computer Information Systems Strayer University Woodbridge VA 2005 to 2009 Diploma in Computer Information Systems Strayer College Manassas 1992 to 1993 Skills content management (3 years), customer service (3 years), documentation (10+ years), DoD (10+ years), security (9 years) Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Service Country: United States Rank: E-4 October 1988 to October 1996 Certifications/Licenses Security + CE June 2015 to June 2018 Additional Information Summary of Skills:    • Experienced in IT Disaster Recovery/COOP planning, exercise and documentation    • Ability to understand system engineering solutions to ensure they provide availability, integrity, authentication, confidentiality, and non-repudiation services    • Experience and knowledge in developing DIACAP documentation    • Experience performing Certification & Accreditation using DIACAP    • Thorough knowledge of DoD 8500 Series IA Controls    • Skilled in providing helpdesk and desktop support  • 8570 IAT Level II Certified: Security+ CE  • Knowledge of DOD security policies and procedures  • Strong communication skills (verbal and written)  • Ability to work in a team setting and autonomous  • Superior customer service skills    • Proven ability to perform content management of websites