Patient Services Coordinator III Patient Services Coordinator III 2035 Syracuse Drive Charlotte, NC To obtain a position that will provide me with the opportunity to use my skills and professional experience with a growing establishment with advancement within the company. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Patient Services Coordinator III Novant Health Psychiatry Associates - Matthews, NC December 2014 to July 2019 Greet Customers, check them in and out, reschedule them for their next appointment. Verify their Insurance Benefits and verify new patients referrals. Answer the phones to schedule, cancel and reschedule appointments and redirect calls to the appropriate departments while divine excellent customer service. Branch Coordinator THD at Home Services - Charlotte, NC March 2014 to September 2014 Responsibilities  Update and maintain customer files, answer and direct calls, and package and send supplies to home depot salesmen.    Accomplishments  I accomplished a lot of knowledge about the company and how it function on day to day basis   Skills Used  My professional expertise of on time accurate and prompt work ethics Data Intake Analyst Aerotex Staffing - The Lash Group - Charlotte, NC 2013 to 2014 Input patient apps via computer for renewal for their medications and eligibility to tor participate in the program, while giving excellent and timely service to our patients. Process and scan daily mail for distributionfor daily input. Customer Service Advantage Professional Staffing Liberty Mutual - Charlotte, NC 2012 to 2012 2012    Provide excellent customer service and day go day account servicing of accounts in an error free quality while multi-tasking and filing updates, audits and changes to client accounts. Technical Consultant - Wells Fargo/Dell Apex Systems, Inc - Charlotte, NC 2012 to 2012 2012    Primarily responsible for abtracting files for a merger project for Wells Fargo/Dell while inputting, correcting, and verifying that the information is accurate and error free via data entry. Administrative Assistant - Mecklenburg County ABC Board Staffmark Consulting - Charlotte, NC 2011 to 2012 Linet Americas    Answer, screen and direct calls effectively using consideration, diplomacy and courtesy. Maintain calendar and schedule appointmrnts involving travel arrangements and events. Prepare meeting agendas and materials. Electronicly file data and paperwork processing, collecting business information for external/internal sources. Leave of Absence Medical Leave of Absence - Charlotte, NC February 2010 to August 2011 Queen City Audio, Video & Appliance Administrative Assistant - Warehouse Delivery Office Queen City Audio, Video & Appliance - Charlotte, NC 2008 to 2010 Provide excellent customer service to our customers via telephone  Answer customer related questions and issues with their appliance delivery  Pull delivery tickets for the next day deliveries, list and call customers to confirm delivery for the next day  Assist delivery drivers with issues with their deliveries IT Help Desk - Information Technology Ettain Group - Charlotte, NC 2008 to 2008 Provide 1st level technical support for 6300+ stores nationwide and Family Dollar Corporate Employees via phone and email  Hardware/Software troubleshooting  Perform tasks assigned by a Supervisor and Help Desk Managers  Perform follow-ups  Perform troubleshooting on all equipment including: PO's registers, register printers, Coolers/Freezers, phone lines, debit terminals, Back Office equipment and network equipment Administrative Assistant - City Of Charlotte - Mayors Office - Government Center Metro Staffing - Charlotte, NC 2007 to 2007 Office Assistant - Economics Development - City Of Charlotte - Government Center  Administrative Assistant - Youth Homes, Inc,  Administrative Assistant - Mecklenburg County Area Mental Health Authority  Administrative Support Assistant - Mecklenburg County Property Assessment & Land Records Management Mortgage Loan Processor Wilmington Finance - Charlotte, NC 2004 to 2006 Responsible for gathering information and taking each file from pre-approval to closing. Input proper loan information into the system for processing. Responsible for insuring that all loan documentation was completed, accurate, verified and complied with company policy. Verified loan documents including income, credit, appraisal and title ultimately preparing applications for submittal to underwriting. Reviewed file documentation and made sure all items needed were requested. Met critical deadlines and performed additional duties/activities assigned by management. Cashier - Front End Harris Teeter - Charlotte, NC 2000 to 2004 Check out customer's groceries and assist them with any help needed to locate items they could not find. Bag groceries if needed and roll out for parcel pick-up. Pulling on-line orders  Giving excellent Customer Service at all times Pricing Administrative Bank of America - Charlotte, NC 2000 to 2001 Responsible for registering mortgage loans, Internal Customer Service resolution with Account Executives, Correspondents and Sales Reps, Locking Retail and Wholesale Loans, Adjusting rates and prices as needed, filing and keeping daily work in order and other clerical duties Operations - Midwest Accounting Analyst Transamerica Reinsurance - Charlotte, NC 2000 to 2001 This role is responsible for administering premium, claims and retrocession for companies within a designated region. This role provides excellent customer service through written and oral communication. Process individual cession and self-administered premiums, claims and retrocession according to applicable treaties and OPS Manage suspense accounts (apply cash; reconcile premiums statements and ledger premiums). Meet team productivity and accuracy standards and accurately report the status of unprocessed work as requested. Demonstrate awareness of Tare Customers and the impact of trends on the business and communicate critical issues to management Adhere to unit standards and accurately report the status of unprocessed work, assist in month-end, quarter-end, and year-end closings to ensure accurate reflection of revenue and expenses generated by customers and calculating appropriate accruals. Handle special projects and serve as back up to other Account Administrators Technology Services Security Analyst Bank of America - Charlotte, NC 1997 to 2000 Plan, coordinate, and implement security measures to safeguard information contained in computer files against accidental or unauthorized modifications, destruction, or disclosure. Provide detailed knowledge of the processing activities of the Access Services Charlotte Unit Grant secured access to Bank of America clients throughout the mid-west and eastern regions. Administer knowledge of RACF, Top Secret, ISPF and SAM ( Security Administration Manager). Work on special projects: CRM (Client Relationship Manager) over North and South Carolina. Customer Service Representative - Accounting Bank of America - Charlotte, NC 1997 to 2000 Investigate and resolve user reported computer software and hardware problems, received and resolved telephone data access problems. Positioned to purify Client/Customer IRA Accounts. Performed database input of customer past due accounts. Provide general clerical support: typing correspondences, filing and balancing reports. Security Administrative Client Support Bank of America - Charlotte, NC 1994 to 1997 Investigated and resolved user access problems, received and resolved user telephone calls relating to problem resolution status, user assistance with specific software inquires, such as statistical, graphics, database, printing, word processing, programming languages, electronic mail and operating systems. Administrative Assistant - Bookkeeper - Cashier Duncan-Parnell, Inc - Charlotte, NC 1990 to 1994 Provide assistance to account executives by coordinating office services to include personnel problem resolutions, budget preparation and control, housekeeping accounts record control and special management studies. Coordination of the collection and preparation of operating reports such as time and attendance records, terminations, new hires, transfers, budget expenditures and statistical records of performance data. Operated the switchboard in the process of troubleshooting as a Customer Service Representative. Balance the cash Drawer and typed sales quotes for field salesman via computer. Assist with the preparation of budget needs and organization of annual reports. Education Certificate in Medical Claims and Billing Specialist West Charlotte Senior High School - Charlotte, NC 1977 Skills Billing, Epic, Microsoft Office, Organizational Skills, Receptionist, Scheduling, Training Additional Information QUALIFICATIONS:    Windows XP, Windows NT, Quick Books, Mainframe Tools, Abacus, Lola, Lotus Notes, Word Perfect 6.0/6.1, Excel, Lotus 1-2-3, PowerPoint, Windows 95,97, 98, Microsoft Word, Accounting AP/AR, Receptionist, Office Assistant, Dispatcher, Administrative Assistant, Loan Processor, Data Entry, Accounting AP/AR and various versions releases of the Meridian Telephone System