Owner Owner Associate. Information Security Manager - Lead Gilbertsville, PA 34 years teaching. 22 years risk assessment. 20 years IT audit. 10 years SOX IT audit. 5 degrees. Managed IT auditors. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Owner ITUTORULEARN, LLC - Gilbertsville, PA May 2014 to Present I design databases, forms and websites. I teach and tutor computer subjects. IT Security Specialist Judge - Wayne, PA April 2019 to May 2019 I audited vendor network connections for Comcast. I decreased the time an existing process was taking by 95% by using VLOOKUP. I gave an impromptu speech at a Toastmasters meeting and the judge said that my speech was the best. Information Security Manager JPMorgan CHASE - Wilmington, DE July 2016 to March 2019 I performed pre- and post-audits in areas such as Application Risk Assessment, Cloud Computing and Secure from the Start, Compensating Controls, Contact Center Services, Continuity Management, Development, Digital Infrastructure, Governance and Strategy, Hadoop, Information Security, Mainframe Database Support, OCC, PCI-DSS and Privileged Access. I managed teams during reviews. I was a lead on the Fire Life & Safety team. I taught and set up classes for the team. I mentored employees. I worked on an Agile automation project. I documented processes using Visio. Information Risk Manager JPM CHASE - Wilmington, DE November 2015 to June 2016 I performed application risk assessments. I tested items such as backups, privileged access and vulnerability assessments by examining provided evidence. I was a top performer. Risk Analyst MANPOWERGROUP - Wilmington, DE April 2015 to November 2015 I performed application risk assessments for JPM Chase. Sr. IT Auditor BB&T - West Chester, PA April 2007 to April 2015 I developed an audit resource locator tool, a list of helpful IT audit websites and an audit file/folder template. AIC of an audit transaction trails review, an AS 400 audit and commercial leasing firm audits. Developed a SharePoint website for audit communications, an audit manual, policies and procedures and a shared documents repository. Worked on a Network Services - Windows Network audit, an Oracle review, privacy audits, an IVR audit and a data center audit. Performed continuous audit monitoring. Maintained an Access follow-up database. Performed audit planning, risk assessments, wrote audit reports and follow-up reviews. Identified a phishing site arriving via email. IT Auditor PROTIVITI - Philadelphia, PA September 2006 to February 2007 I conducted a restatement IT audit of Fannie Mae. Audited access controls, computer operations, logging and monitoring, problem and change management for Oracle, UNIX and Weblogic. Reviewed Bindview and Tripwire reports. Wrote SOX narratives and test scripts. I found a firewall full of holes. IT Auditor SECURANCE CONSULTING - Tampa, FL August 2006 to August 2006 I conducted an IT SOX audit of a dental supply firm. Uncovered excessive root access. Consultant GOLDCAMP TAX FACTS - Sinking Spring, PA August 2005 to August 2006 Assessed network security and made recommendations. Taught computer classes. Consultant GR CONSULTING - Jenkintown, PA November 2004 to January 2006 Performed IT SOX general controls and app reviews. Interviewed job candidates for clients. Wrote vulnerability analysis guidelines, IT policies, procedures, and an employee handbook. Helped HR modify employee candidate form. •• Audited 2 banks, a clothing retailer, a computer repair business, a data center, a computer add-on manufacturer, and a phone directory publisher. 1 project 100 hrs. < budget, saving client > $10 K. Sr. IS Auditor FIS - Wayne, PA January 2000 to November 2004 Assessed access controls, tested data integrity and reviewed data paths. Evaluated financial systems security controls. Supervised audits as AIC. Taught Internet and UNIX audit classes. Wrote announcement letters, strategy memos, and audit reports. Assessed auditing, security monitoring, log review, and filtering tools for SunGard businesses. Provided Internet security advice to SunGard businesses. Assisted businesses designing new systems with security analyses. Provided assistance to clients in changing computer settings to resolve audit findings. Conducted ASP, application development, change control, computer operations, GLBA, LAN, Excel, logical, physical, and environmental security, operating system, RACF, SOX, SQL server, UNIX, WebSphere, Internet, Intranet, Oracle, and eCommerce audits. Performed risk assessments. Used social engineering to access tapes stored at vendor site. Performed penetration testing on websites and networks. Accessed an Intranet website by determining a user's password. Bypassed entry security to enter a data recovery center. Convinced a user to reveal his password. Conducted audits in the US, Australia, Canada, England, France, and New Zealand. Distributed computer tech tips weekly to IT personnel. Designed a file and web portal for the audit team to make it easy to find audit documents on the network. Documented physical security issues using a digital camera. Interviewed IT audit candidates. Instrumental in showing the business the need to audit Corporate IT. Wrote audit programs for Apache server, disaster recovery, firewalls, GLBA, HIPAA, IIS, Linux, Excel, Offsite Storage Provider, Oracle, routers, SonicWall, SOX, SQL Server, Sybase, Tandem, telecommunications, UNIX, VLAN, VPN, and Windows. Reviewed peers workpapers. In '03, SunGard IT Audit received the highest rating from the FFIEC, 1. The gov't reviewer said my workpapers were very detailed and well written. IT Auditor LOCKHEED MARTIN - King of Prussia, PA May 1997 to January 2000 Performed some financial audits for the first six months. Assisted in cost analysis review. Performed IT audits. Designed a Webpage for IT Unit of Corporate Audit. Wrote a telecommuting policy and agreement and was instrumental in convincing Corporate Audit to implement telecommuting. Discovered that an offsite vendor would release tapes to unauthorized recipients. Found a system in existence that was not reconciling debits and credits accurately. Uncovered export control violations that resulted in the closure of a business. Revealed over 200 violations of company policy and government law in leading a Web security audit. Penetrated a company AP system and a Corporate Macintosh system console. Designed an electronic filing system via links to easily find files on a server. Convinced management to obtain a shared server accessible to all audit units. Provided computer help and data extracts for auditors across the Corporation. Used ACL to analyze data extracts for audits. Used ESM to perform Novell and NT audits. Performed a contract compliance review for RACF on an OS 390 and AS 400. Wrote whitepapers on SAP Security and Electronic Timekeeping that were distributed to key individuals throughout the Corporation. Made regular contributions to the Internal Audit Webpage bulletin board regarding software help. Wrote an article for the Corporate Audit internal newsletter entitled Building or Busting Auditees. It was incorporated into new auditor training at Lockheed Martin. In '99, our audit department received the IIA Commitment to Quality Improvement Award and I received an award for thinking outside of the box on Electronic Workpapers. In 10/99, I spoke at an MIS/IIA Conference on Strategies for Improving IT Audit Productivity. Wrote NetWare audit program Consultant KEANE CONSULTING - Media, PA February 1997 to April 1997 Wrote a program to detect program code that was not Y2K compliant, including COBOL, DCL, FORTRAN, JCL, and Datatrieve. Added value by listing code and called libraries no longer used. UNIX Systems Administrator COMMUNICATIONS TEST DESIGN - West Chester, PA March 1996 to February 1997 Performed tape backups. Designed UNIX job scripts. Wrote C, SQL, and Ingres programs. Provided help desk support. Monitored the system for CPU utilization and made job and process adjustments. Software Engineer GE - King of Prussia, PA August 1986 to February 1996 Designed a forward pricing reporting system so that all proposal personnel used current rates. Developed a reporting system used by over 200 individuals measuring contract performance. Wrote programs in COBOL, Focus, FORTRAN, Honeywell and IBM JCL, DCL procedures, Pascal, and Clists in TSO. Provided PC and software desktop support in DOS, Excel, Word, Windows, and PowerPoint. Taught Focus software classes. Member of emergency response team. IT Auditor AC LORDI - West Chester, PA June 2006 Conducted IT SOX audits of a building supply manufacturer, an image and scanning business and a cancer research firm. Discovered an auto app logon. Sr. IT Auditor Education MBA in MIS LaSalle University - Philadelphia, PA 1990 to 1996 BBA in Computer science Ursinus College - Collegeville, PA AAS in Business Management Montgomery County Community College - Blue Bell, PA M. Divinity Faith Theological Seminary - Elkins Park, PA BA in Theology Berkshire Christian College - Lenox, MA Skills ESM (2 years), Internet security (4 years), LAN (4 years), Security (10+ years), Adobe, MS Office (10+ years), Information Security, Cyber Security