IT NETWORK LEAD/MANAGER <span class="hl">IT</span> NETWORK LEAD/MANAGER IT NETWORK LEAD/MANAGER - CPI CARD GROUP Lebanon, TN Experienced, practical and outcome-oriented Network Engineer/Manager having over 10 years experience with a proven record of accomplishment in delivering a diverse range of technical functions that supports management and staff in achieving organizational goals accompanied with practical understanding of network and software needs, highly professional and adept at incorporating creative leadership skills to achieve business objectives. Direct projects that improve efficiency while meeting deadlines and budget requirements. Self-starter with excellent oral and written communication skills. Proven team player with strong ability to work effectively with people at all levels of a corporation.  FUNCTIONAL EXPERTISE   * Technology Leadership * High Availability Networks * IT Infrastructure Projects * Planning & Maintenance * Project Management * Problem Solving * Staff Development & Training * Network Security * Team Leadership * Policy/Procedure Development * Network Engineering & Design * Customer Oriented * Technology Inventory * System Administration * Resource Allocation Work Experience IT NETWORK LEAD/MANAGER CPI Card Group - Nashville, TN 2018 to Present    Responsible for providing strategic and tactical enterprise network leadership. This role develops and coordinates all network/telecom operations including LAN/WAN, VOIP, wireless and disaster recovery capability. The manager is responsible for managing the implementation, integration, installation and operation of network & telecommunication infrastructure in a highly available environment. This role develops, implements, and manages strategic business relationships with key technology vendors and suppliers, internal and external business partners, and collaborates with senior IT management and other key stakeholders to establish goals and deliver network projects. The manager provides formal supervision and coaching for the Network/Telecom teams while setting vision and direction to inspire and drive continuous improvement of policies, standards and procedures.  Some Core Benchmarks include:    ·        Effectively plans, designs and develops (LANs) and (WANs) across the organization to ensure the stability of all in house data, voice, video and wireless network services.  ·        Establishes network standards, policies and procedures for network related hardware and software across the organization  ·        Develop and implement policies/procedures for daily operational management, including best practices for installing, configuring, maintaining, and troubleshooting network issues  ·        Ensures the provision of comprehensive, integrated, reliable, secure, high-quality services for in areas such as backbone and local area networking, network facilities and infrastructure, Internet access, high-performance networking, network security, remote access to IT services, and telecommunications  ·        Develop and maintain solid understanding of Customer needs and strengthen working relationships with the Helpdesk, POS support and key stakeholders across the organization.  ·        Evaluate network/telecom hardware and software requirements and capabilities and make recommendations.  ·        Assess new technology and business trends in order to deliver cost-effective network/telecom solutions and services in support of strategic and operational business plans  ·        Establish budgetary requirements for equipment replacement. Evaluate network technology product vendors/providers by conducting research and cost/benefit analysis on network products, services, protocols, and standards in support of network procurement and development efforts. Negotiate agreements with vendors, outsourcers, and contractors to secure network products and services.  ·        Develop, monitor and enforce carrier service level agreements for all data network and telecommunications service contracts.  ·        Hires, trains, and supervises the Network, Telecommunication staff; ensures that the staff is empowered to exercise initiative and work creatively, participate productively in inter-departmental project teams, engage in regular professional development activities, and cooperate and communicate well. Build organizational talent by creating a learning environment that ensures employees realize their highest potential.  ·        Share knowledge and develop staff capabilities to strengthen understanding of network industry and business issues and best practices; Develop and communicate organizational objectives; inspire and motivate team members to achieve results.  ·        Work in partnership with IT leaders on strategic initiatives related to enterprise computing to continuously improve policies, standards and procedures by anticipating issues, providing advice and sharing knowledge and best practices.  ·        Sets leadership direction for team in support of 24 x 7 production operations and services.  ·        Serve as technical mentor for managers and staff, ensuring optimization of skill set enhancement.  ·        Other duties may be assigned. SENIOR NETWORK ENGINEER - TEAM LEAD CPI CARD GROUP 2015 to 2018 Responsible for designing, building, supporting several aspects of the Velocity's network infrastructure (LAN/WAN/MAN/MPLS/VPN/IPSEC/DMVPN) covering the areas of Cisco Routers, Switches (NexusIOS, CatIOS, IOS), Firewalls (ASA 5510, ASA 5520, 5555-x, ACI, ) AWS VPN, Azure VPN, network security, F5 load balancers, Solar Winds Network Monitoring software.  Some Core Benchmarks include: * Participates in, and provides technical expertise and direction to customers and Velocity staff members.  * Works with customer network staff on design, equipment procurement, scheduling, implementation and support for Velocity hosted resources.  * Successfully coordinated the design and operation of highly available mission critical service provider network infrastructure. Including: monitoring, change procedures, performance and capacity planning instrumentation.  * Led and mentored network operation team members through coaching and formalized training * Developed detailed network standards and associated documentation including diagrams and work instructions * Research / implement best practices with regard to STR security posture and networking needs * Alerting, Monitoring, Reporting, Auditing on systems and applications * Design / document security and network solutions * Effectively participated and collaborated with cross-functional teams including project managers, server and applications engineers, and customer IT teams * Wrote and reviewed Root Cause Analysis reports which are complete and accurate and are shared with customers and include preventive actions * Led and mentored other staff members through goal setting and coaching as well as more formalized training * Cisco ACI (Application Centric Integration) technology implementation and troubleshooting.  * Interviewed prospective team members and made recommendations for hiring ADJUNCT PROFESSOR- IT SECURITY/NETWORK ENGINEERING ITT 2014 to 2016 Functioned as Adjunct Professor, participates in core course academic support programs, certification programs, and student professional associations.  Some Core Benchmarks include:   * Participated in school retention initiatives by providing regular, accurate, and timely feedback to students and the school concerning academics, behaviour, attendance, etc.  * Motivated students to actively participate in all aspects of the educational process.  * Completed professional development and in-service activities in accordance with college standards.  * Maintained expertise in subject area and recommends improvements in curriculum design. Instructs students in laboratory safety procedures if applicable.  * Performed administrative duties in the Learning Resource Center as assigned. SENIOR NETWORK ENGINEER - TEAM LEAD PREMISE HEALTH, NASHVILLE 2014 to 2015 Provides Design, support and serves as the company's point of contact for network issues, configuration management, and communications interconnection, addressing, and multi-protocol routing and network management.  Some Core Benchmarks include:   * Served as Project Manager and Network Engineer on LAN/WAN upgrades at customer sites and Premise Corporate offices.  * Deployed, Configured and managed Fortinet Firewalls, Cisco Firewalls, Routers and Switches in a high volume production environment * Developed and enforced policies to standardize and secure the network infrastructure * Worked alongside clinical staff addressing IT issues pertaining to supporting patient care * Worked with security team in increasing levels of LAN/WAN security and in maintaining the LAN/WAN barrier systems responsible for preventing unauthorized access to the Premise Network by establishing and configuring network firewalls, VPN devices and IDSs.  * Provided recommendations making either a change to network level operations or an enhancement to the network (tuning or upgrade).  * Led and mentored other staff members through goal setting and coaching as well as more formalized training.  * Established and implemented LAN/WAN procedures and standards to ensure compliance with company objectives and policies.  * Interviewed prospective team members and made recommendations for hiring * Communicated with staff and customers on the status of all network support requests.  * Continuously evaluated and resolved complex technical issues associated with network and routing protocols at all levels of the Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) model through the use of diagnostics and network administration tools.  * Provided proactive input on policies and issues related to standardization as well as develop and write policies and procedures that identify best practice solutions necessary for operations in support of the LAN/WAN.  * Defined and established minimum standards related to LAN/WAN access and its impact on overall network operations. NETWORK INFRASTRUCTURE ENGINEER CORRECTIONS CORPORATION OF AMERICA 2012 to 2014 Responsible for designing, building, supporting several aspects of the CCA's network infrastructure (LAN/WAN/MAN/MPLS) covering the areas of Cisco Routers and Switches, HP ProCurve Switches, HP Wireless Solutions, Riverbed LAN/WAN technology, network security, SUSE Linux Servers, Windows Servers, IP Telephony, F5 load balancers, Solar Winds Network Monitoring software, wireless networking and remote access systems.  Some Core Benchmarks include:   * Served as project manager for Cisco router upgrade and additional circuit installations all CCA facilities * Lead projects related to areas of responsibility and manage resources appropriately to meet project timelines.  * Responded to requests regarding networking connectivity and performance problems. Troubleshoot and resolved issues. Contacted and interacted with vendors regarding maintenance and support. Completed requisitions in order to purchase parts and equipment.  * Correspond with Vendor technical resources for both internal and Vendor facing systems * Engage with site computer contacts to seek out opportunities to pass along to other staff and maintain facility satisfaction * Monitored and responded to Local and Wide Area Network hardware and software failures. Maintain maximum system uptime for production systems and applications.  * Maintained and managed LAN and WAN performance using network analysis tools to fine tune system performance or resolve issues. Maintain network security.  * Analysed user needs, network traffic, system capacity and other data in order to design network architectures. Maintained and developed network monitoring and documentation to include locations of routers, switches, firewalls, wireless access points and servers. Maintained inventory of equipment configuration and OS levels.  * Developed, implemented and maintained standards for router, switch, firewall and wireless access point configurations, and OS backup and upgrade procedures to ensure optimum and consistent configuration and installations across the enterprise.  * Tested and evaluated new technology and applications as needed. LEAD FIELD ENGINEER/PROJECT MANAGEMENT PROMOTION FROM FIELD TECHNICIAN CORRECTIONS CORPORATION OF AMERICA - Nashville, TN 2007 to 2012 Responsible for providing server, network, PC/Workstation and end user support for assigned CCA's facilities, and Work with state, federal, county customers and CCA Technology Department to develop and implement connectivity solutions between other networks and the CCA network.  Some Core Benchmarks include:   * Served as Project Manager and Technical Lead during facility start-ups/de-activations, network refresh, network cabling, pc, server, wireless, and printer upgrades projects * Correspond with Vendor technical resources for both internal and Vendor facing systems * Managed Field Engineering team and computer contacts at assigned facilities.  * Engage with site computer contacts to seek out opportunities to pass along to other staff and maintain facility satisfaction * Trained and maintained proper use of internal systems along with identifying and implementing new features and functions * Effectively communicated project expectations to team members and stakeholders in a timely and clear fashion * Managed, coached, mentored, motivated and supervised computer contacts, project team members and contractors while influencing them to take positive action and accountability for their assigned work.  * Developed and delivered progress reports, proposals, requirements documentation, and presentations.  * Built, developed, and grew any business relationships vital to the success of the project.  * Identified and managed project dependencies and critical path.  * Contributed to performance reviews for IT Contacts at assigned facilities.  * Assigned and oversaw work of team members and IT contacts.  * Interviewed prospective team members and made recommendations for hiring.  * Identified training and development needs for other team members and helped develop professional growth plans. TECHNICAL SUPPORT ANALYST/NOC MONITOR - TEAM LEAD ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY SERVICES - Nashville, TN 2006 to 2007 DESKTOP SUPPORT SPHERION 2004 to 2005 PROPERTY TAX ASSOCIATE/MAIL COORDINATOR ADECCO 2004 to 2005 PC/NETWORK SUPPORT SPECIALIST GEORGIA SOUTHERN UNIVERSITY 2001 to 2003 Education Master of Business Administration in Business Administration Keller Graduate School of Management 2010 Bachelor of Business Administration in Business Administration Georgia Southern University 2003 Skills Cisco (8 years), maintenance (3 years), security (10+ years), solutions (10+ years), training (10+ years) Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES  ? Extremely knowledgeable of Cisco networks as well as their installation and maintenance  ? Ability to inspire confidence and engage workers alongside great collaborative skills.  ? Proven ability to work with diverse individuals and groups.  ? Knowledge of operational management and policy procedure compliance.  ? Problem solving skills needed to troubleshoot and repair network issues  ? Unique competency in translating business issues into network solutions including opportunity identification, requirements development, delivery, support, and analysis.  ? Outstanding leadership abilities; able to coordinate and direct all phases of project-based efforts while managing, motivating, and leading project team initiatives.  ? Ability to multi-task and perform administrative duties with speed and accuracy without supervision  ? Capable of training employees on the use of the network  ? Experienced in setting up a secure network to maintain confidentiality security precautions