Information System Security Officer Information System <span class="hl">Security</span> Officer Information System Security Officer - ISSO Germantown, MD Work Experience Information System Security Officer ASM Research, an Accenture Federal Services Company - Gaithersburg, MD February 2019 to Present Provided support plan and implement information security at the Office of Financial Management Systems for the US Department of Commerce.  • Analyze and track database and infrastructure vulnerabilities to ensure critical, high and medium vulnerabilities are patched according to schedule.  • Worked as ISSO for 3 systems- ensure system documentations such as System Security Plan (SSP), Privacy Threshold Analysis (PTA), Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA) are updated  • Gather artifacts to satisfy controls; document and track POA&Ms to ensure weaknesses are remediated  • Develop and provide guidance regarding cybersecurity policies, procedures and best practices for software development life cycle (SDLC), networking, and server management Deputy Project Manager/Project Lead, Cybersecurity ASM Research, an Accenture Federal Services Company - Chantilly, VA February 2017 to February 2019 Supported and managed a team of nine (9) analysts on the Continuous Readiness in Information Security Program (CRISP), PHI/PII data encryption team, for the US Veteran Affairs  • Led the development of an Action Item to determine how PHI/PII data was stored, processed and transmitted across the enterprise  • Trains and mentors team members on updated security policies and standards in line with NIST 800-171 compliance standards  • Contributed to security strategy and security posture by conducting gap analysis to determine encryption status for systems with privacy data across the enterprise for data-at-rest and data-in- motion.  • Performed Vulnerability, Risk assessment and measured effectiveness of controls against known vulnerabilities.  • Prepared reports that identify technical and procedural findings and provide recommended remediation strategies/solutions.  • Streamlined reporting of PHI/PII status per system, facilities and criticality levels using the RMF and made the already existing process automated, which in turn positively impacted team productivity  • Performed encryption-specific technical security controls Assessments and made recommendations for implementation in accordance with the FIPS 140-2, NIST 800-88 and NIST 800-53 rev 4 guidelines.  • Performed Security Controls for cloud systems in accordance with FEDRAMP  • Responsible for testing and ensuring Encryption-specific Technical Controls for securing privacy data and information systems are in place in accordance with NIST 800-53 Federal Guidelines.  • Coordinated with system owners across the VA for assessment and validation of systems  • Achieved a National SOP document for Backup Data Encryption  • Achieved FISMA compliance and Authority to Operate (ATO) for systems IT Security Analyst Stack IT solutions Inc - Bowie, MD April 2012 to February 2017 • Knowledge on security network design including firewalls, DLP, IDS, IPS  • Experience in Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) Tools like Splunk and McAfee  • Monitoring Splunk and managing logs. Troubleshooting and escalating security alerts like malware,  MSSQL, UNIX, Oracle alerts.  • Supported and maintained information systems across the organization while participating in the design phase of new infrastructure solutions, and security enhancements to existing systems.  • Reviewed and updated security artifacts like System Security Plans, Contingency Plans, MOU/ISA, in accordance with NIST guidelines and organizational defined policies.  • Worked as Dark Web administrator- tracked compromised accounts and enforced cybersecurity  controls to avoid recurrence  • Performed security categorizations using FIPS 199 and NIST SP 800-60  • Reviewed and updated System Security Plans (SSP) using NIST 800-53 rev4 requirements.  • Initiated, coordinated and tracked remediation of security weaknesses as they were discovered, via the Plan of Actions and Milestones (POA&M)  • Analyzed and advised on the risk and remediation of security issues based on reports from vulnerability  assessment scans. Network/Systems Administrator January 2010 to December 2011 Geographic information systems- Calabar, Nigeria  • Managed the Multi cadastral, LRS, File and Domain controller servers. Dell Power edge T710  • Spear-headed the design and development of a technical information sheet (TIS) which, reduced  downtime, increased productivity and increased KPI to ensure compliance of agreed SLA.  • Created a "support downtime" log, which captured enough evidence (over a 4-month period) to provide  strong, constructive feedback to the Support Delivery team. This ultimately led to a shake-up in the support process, thereby ensuring increased stability within support environments  • Performed routine periodic backups of Oracle databases and over 100,000 land data state-wide.  • Monitored endpoints using SolarWinds  • Responsible for implementing and maintaining system security and configurations of 4 company servers  while providing IT support, to include planning, software and hardware configuration to 100 end-users.  • Analyzed information to determine, recommend, and plan layout for type of computers and peripheral  equipment modifications to existing systems. IT Systems Analyst seieurope.com - Letchworth April 2008 to December 2009 SEI Europe, Letchworth, United Kingdom  • Project management - Part of the team that managed the implementation of Solar winds network analysis tool for more than two thousand sites.  • Database Management Systems- Planned, managed and maintained the Crew Management Schedule  (CAMS) and Human Resource and Training (HRAT) databases that run on Oracle 10g and SQL server 2005. Involved in the database migration, backup and restoration on more than 30 servers  • SQL database administration- Provided high level of support and administration for SQL 2000/2005 servers. This included backup, recovery and configuration. Education Masters in Applied Computing and Information Technology in Applied Computing and Information Technology University of Bedfordshire - Germantown, MD September 2006 to February 2008 Skills Cyber Security, Information Security, Nist