IT Support Technician <span class="hl">IT</span> Support Technician Experienced Technical Support\Desktop Support\Helpdesk Analyst Cedar Hill, TX Looking to relocate to the Houston and surrounding area Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Support Technician Top Golf - Dallas, TX March 2019 to Present • Manage, resolve, and/or escalate all incoming phone calls, emails, and tickets received while maintaining the highest degree of professionalism and service.  • Respond to all Associate requests in a timely an professional manner.  • Provide technical support to Game System, F&B POS, Windows OS, and any network troubleshooting.  • Document issues, troubleshooting, and resolution within ticketing system.  • Determine severity of issues and prioritize resolution  • Assist in developing internal documentation to support new features and procedures for product enhancement.  • Proactively following up on all open issues. Technical Support Associate Level 2 Amwins - Richardson, TX December 2017 to January 2019 Daily tasks include answering level 2 calls from employees regarding desktop issues and support. Assisted with password unlocks, resets, office 365 support, installation, application support, reimaging, hardware installation, virus detection and more. Ticketing system used was Service Now, also in charge of the Service Now knowledge base creation and upkeep. Daily apps used were Active Directory, Lockout tool, Citrix App Tool, Exchange Admin Center, Outlook, Skype for Business, Five9 softphone system, Lansweeper, Multi-Factor Authentication, Dameware and Citrix Receiver. Tech Support Level 2 TEK Systems - Irving, TX March 2017 to December 2017 Assisted internal users with desktop issues including applications assistance, password resets, Symantec issues\scans, VDI, cisco VPN using Service Now ticketing system.  Desktop Support, Remote Control Support\Dameware, and Installations IT Branch Manager The Freeman Company Dallas - Dallas, TX February 2012 to October 2016 Administered hands on management technical support to a branch of 300+ users including warehouse.  Responsible for Imaging and Deploying multiple laptops, desktops and surface pro 4's to keep business up to date and achieving productivity. Negotiated vendor contacts for the company's many printers which is highly used in the trade show business and designs. Analyzed departmental Hardware and Software yearly to save money when purchasing new equipment. Managed multiple server's onsite and remote to keep the company up and running with minimal downtime. Assisted and managed trade show employees with all computer equipment, system setup, and network to keep from having any interruptions. Created relationships with Convention Center IT staff in case of issues related to the center. Managed work\personal cellphones, Tablets, push to talk, and Vendor Hotspots for user support when traveling offsite. 24/7 on call support for all branch employees, including traveling to remote sites.  Performed basic password resets for all programs, setup new accounts as well as Exchange Office 365 installations and support. Also provided account terminations on Human Resources demand. Documented calls daily of support for callers using Alloy ticketing system, and F1rst Ticketing System some up to 60 calls a day. Worked directly with Support Engineer, Network Security, Helpdesk, System Support for Salesforce, HP\Novacopy\Ricoh printer suppliers and techs. All Microsoft Windows and Apple Macs, Microsoft Surface Tablets, Dell Tablets were supported daily. Achieved getting business inventory not taken for 7 years, done in 3 months, managing and cleanup of a huge computer room within a month of starting the company. Also accolades from Corporate VP of IT for getting my branch complainant with company rules. Helpdesk Associate ACS Inc - Dallas, TX August 2010 to February 2012 Performed level 1 and 2 Technical\Customer Service support to Disney Employees, achieving getting every system issue back up and running in less than 15mins.  Desktop Support, Remote Control Support, and Installations.  Created Work Orders for multiple Tier groups as well as Vendors.  Daily use of technology systems such as Active Directory, Service Center, Identity Manager, Citrix, Active Sync, BES and Exchange. Responsible for Setting up Exchange accounts for Blackberry, Windows XP, Windows 7, and Mac OS systems. Supported IPad, IPhone, Blackberry, Windows and Macs. Helpdesk System Support Engineer US Health Group - Fort Worth, TX January 2010 to May 2010 Provide Tier 2 Technical Support to US Health Employees and Field Agents assuring issues were resolved in timely manner. NT Security Analyst AutoNation - Irving, TX May 2005 to January 2008 Maintained and created service and user accounts for users of Auto Nation using Active Directory and Citrix.  Supplied password and username for user account for the whole country.  Maintained and created permissions and user groups for files and folders stored on a drive for associates of Auto Nation. Assisted in Change Control and ANOF conference calls. Assisted in an exchange Migration and account setup off 2007 from 2003. UNIX and Batch Operator FiServ Inc - Irving, TX July 2003 to May 2005 Provided support for many Tape Drives, Server, and LT Servers.  Used UNIX to start and stop the drives and to monitor alarm codes.  I was also a backup to Fiserv ATM support with the bank, providing help desk desktop and atm assistance. Education Bachelor's in Information Management DeVry College - Irving, TX 2007 Certification in Engineering and Marketing Remington College - Dallas, TX 2003 Mac Arthur High School - Irving, TX 1996 Skills EXCHANGE (9 years), SECURITY (7 years), ACTIVE DIRECTORY (5 years), CITRIX (5 years), BUYING/PROCUREMENT (4 years), Cisco, Network Support, Salesforce Additional Information SKILLS  MS Office All Exchange 2000/2003/2007/2010/2013 and Office 365  ITIL  Bitlocker Recovery  Lansweeper  Office 365 Migration (Cloud and Premise)  Mac OS Server and Migration  Microsoft Communicator Software & Operating Systems  Microsoft Teams  One Drive  Scrutinzer  Active Directory  Microsoft Lync Maintained/Updated Contact  SAP Info Service Center 6  Go To Assistant (Remote Assistance)  Dameware (remote access)  Bomgar Remote  Power BI  Thycotic Secret Server  SharePoint  TSS setup\support  Webex \Skype for Business  Purchasing  Mitel Communications (Cisco phones) \Avaya\Five9  Nexpose Security Console  Cisco Anyconnect VPN  Altiris Console/ Altiris Deployment Console  Visual Basic 6.0 UNIX  HTML Enable/Disabled User Accounts Created/Reset User  JavaScript 6.0  Citrix Receiver\App Center  Printer Setup Windows 2000 Server SQL 2000 Server  LT400 Servers and Tape Drives System  Blackberry Support, Android, IPhone, and IPad Support  Fedex\UPS shipping Administrator  Net Meeting Support  Solar Winds  Managing Idrac servers remotely  Reimaging Laptops All Microsoft Office Applications  Manage Cellphones\PTT and Mifi's for user support  Customer Service Support  Extremely organized  Strong verbal communication  Self-motivated  Team leadership  Data management