CPIC SME/ Lead - Independent Consultant CPIC SME/ Lead - Independent Consultant CPIC SME/ Lead - Independent Consultant - Department of State Arlington, VA Professional strengths:    • In-depth knowledge of LAN, WAN, IT system security and network devices  • Extensive knowledge of Microsoft technologies, VMware, McAfee disk encryption, HP servers, and switches  • Solid knowledge of IP Networking, Routing Protocols, security and IP telephony  • Proficient in IT Security development, troubleshooting Data Center and LAN network problems  • Exhibit strong communication, critical thinking, multitasking, troubleshooting and customer support skill  • Self-motivated, proactive, and can thrive in a fast-paced, mission critical operation environment  • Attention to detail, very thorough when performing a project or task    Career Achievements  • Intern of the Month 6/2010  • Outstanding Intern of Summer 8/2010  • Leadership Award Spring 2013 Work Experience CPIC SME/ Lead - Independent Consultant Department of State - Washington, DC March 2018 to Present • Provides CPIC and Portfolio advisory services on a portfolio of about $1.2B for the Bureau of Information Resource Management (IRM)  • Develops best practices and detailed guidance for OMB Processes for data collection  • Skilled in the use of operating CRM Databases in relation IT Portfolio Management  • Ensures FITARA Compliance and Reporting as it relates to Monthly IT Dashboard Submissions  • Ensures FITARA Compliance and Reporting as it relates to Annual IT Dashboard Submissions  • Ensures Budget Submission activities are streamlined and data within the Budget Report matches portfolio management data  • Developed guide to transition from Waterfall to Agile Methods  • Develop CIO Data package to include ROI return percentage as well as performance metrics based on strategic goals  • Ensures same day turn-around on all asset updates within the DoS Portfolio Tool  • Develops presentations and Executive Briefings in relation to Congressional, and Agency Specific Briefings.  • Realigned entire $2.4B portfolio to new OMB Standards  • Developed training modules to ensure new Portfolio Users can access/update investment modules  • Created cost-savings module checklist which includes a path to the cloud, inter-agency agreements, and Requisition capabilities  • Conceptualized new IT Acquisition Model that weighs the validity of a future investment vs the complexity.  • Audits BRR Reports to ensure all investment data has been reported correctly based on various IT FUNDS  • Critiques and Reviews all IT Operating Plans to ensure budget allocation and contracts for previous/current FY Years have exact funding and dollar amount for the detailed submission.  • Liaisons between Bureaus and PMO office for investment ideation/support  • Ensures training and PMO documents are up to date for DoS customer support Chief of IT Services - Contracts, and IT Operations Public Performance Management - Washington, DC March 2017 to May 2018 • Selecting and implementing suitable technology to streamline all internal operations and help optimize their strategic benefits  • Designing and customizing technological systems and platforms to improve customer experience  • Approve purchases of technological equipment and software and establish partnerships with IT providers  • Oversee the technological infrastructure (networks and computer systems) in the organization to ensure optimal performance  • Grew company's overall revenue from $2.9 Million to $10.5 Million  • Received Lenovo Up and Coming awards for SLED sales within the Washington, DC metro area  • In Depth design partnerships with Barracuda, Oracle, Dell, NetApp, and Cisco  • Increased company's software as a service models such as cloud, and storage hosting  • Increased services offerings to include help desk, projector maintenance, computer imaging, and VOIP service.  • Maintained companies Oracle Platinum Partner Status  • Direct and organize IT-related projects  • Developed relationships with large computer manufacturers to ensure profitability based on forecasted revenue  • Monitor changes or advancements in technology to discover ways the company can gain competitive advantage  • Analyze the costs, value and risks of information technology to advise management and suggest actions  • Create business value through technology  • Strategic planning of business growth objectives  • Ensuring the tech systems and procedures lead to outcomes in line with business goals  • Vendor negotiations and IT architecture  • Supplier management Secretary Department of Homeland Security - Rosslyn, VA August 2014 to March 2017 Help Desk Manager - Department of Homeland Security  • Evaluated laptop hardware options to determine best fit in environment as well as reliability and cost.  • Monitored Help Desk customer satisfaction and ratings by developing a Help Desk survey for clients to use.  • Managed and monitored call center tools, voice mail systems and customer service tracking tools.  • Provides Tier 1, Tier 2, Tier 3, and VIP Support  • Troubleshoot issues as well as supported Exchange, Active Directory, and VOIP  • Performed as System Administrator, managing all new Active Directory Accounts  • Established new processes and procedures on responding to various security incidents, significantly increasing response time and improving overall customer service.  • Answered and resolved level 1 support issues as well as being the lead on all escalated level 2 and level 3 support calls.  • Built excellent client relationships; provided "damage control" when a client relationship was failing  • Planned and implemented custom IT solutions for clients based on their individual needs and goals  • Skilled in Remedy & Service Now  • Managed two teams of a total of 65 people with customer support/troubleshooting and user workstation configuration which reduced user downtime by 25%.  • Supervised and trained a team of 20 in customer support operations, basic network operations, planning and procedures decreasing project execution time by 30%.  • Implemented and improved user workstation tracking system that resulted in 100% accountability and a faster turnaround time of 24 hours  • Delivers business development diagrams which show meaningful enhancements to work production via contract vehicles  • Mentors and coaches junior project managers and help desk managers.  • Leads recruiting efforts to effectively staff all business opportunities while adhering to the contractual obligations set forth by the department  • Effectively writes job descriptions and key qualifications to attract outstanding talent.  • Ensures at least 95% SLA completion on all projects  • Implements ITIL Service Management Standards within all operations to exceed customer requirements  • Implements CMMI Services as it adheres to the level of communication, reporting, and overall work progress within the contract.  • Responsible for degaussing hard drives from EOL (end of life) devices  • Works with System Owners for removal of servers once decommissioned  • Skilled in the use of Sunflower Asset Management tracking software (auditing, retiring, adding)  • Skilled in the use of Manage Engine for software license management to track contractual agreements in adherence to license policies Secretary Department of Homeland Security - Rosslyn, VA June 2013 to August 2014 Junior System Administrator/Technical Lead - Department of Homeland Security  • Responsible for direct interaction with customers either by telephone, electronically or face to face.  • Continued support of National Protection and Programs Directorate (NPPD) a component with Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Headquarters at a Senior System Administrator/Team Lead level  • Continued support of National Protection and Programs Directorate (NPPD) a component with Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Headquarters at a Senior System Administrator/Team Lead level Responsible for managing site queue, including:  • Assigning trouble tickets to desk side technicians  • Served on proposal evaluation teams and ensured that procurements are performed accurately, adequately documented, and effected in a timely manner.  • Monitored technological changes and developments associated with IT telecommunications, and networking technologies.  • Provided 24/7 support to NPPD Under Secretary and Chiefs of Staff whether on travel or out of office.  • Prioritizing tickets in queue to ensure major and mission critical issues are addressed immediately  • Escalating tickets that cannot be resolved on the Tier II Deskside Support level to the proper group  • Ensuring that proper forms are scanned into tickets and that procedures are followed to provide a correct estimation of resolution times and accountability  • Completing daily reports to summarize ticket queue activity, and updating management on aged tickets and major site events  • Tracking software deployments throughout the site through Remedy client software from the time it is received from the courier to delivery to the customer  • Employs specialized knowledge of infrastructure protection needs to create documents for unique sets of users such as Protective Security Advisors in the field to ensure tailored and improved operating procedures are applied for their systems and support Cyber Security Analyst - IC Watch Office (Night Shift) SMS Data Group - Washington, DC August 2012 to June 2014 • Provided network security expertise and guidance in support of security assessments for government (FISMA DIACAP & NIST) and commercial clients (SOX, PCI, HIPAA). Performed network risk assessments, vulnerability assessments, and penetration testing. Evaluated and recommended security technology such as network and host-based intrusion detection systems (IDS), virus protection capabilities, and virtual private network solutions.  • Reviewed security logs to ensure compliance with policies and procedures and identifies potential anomalies.  • Utilized various project management methodology & PMI process to enhance various cyber security programs within the Department. Managed the 24x7 DoT SOC/CIRT.  • Developed reports for CIO, CISO, and other executives (Dept. Secretary) about IT security posture across the department. Developed daily cyber security situation awareness reports from various sources (advisories, SIEM, Intel briefing, etc.). Advised in IT risk management for the department.  • Lead liaison for cyber security for the Department. Incident response liaison between the department and other government organizations (DHS US-CERT, DC3, NSA). Represented the department in government wide initiatives Cyber Storm, GFIRST, NCRCG, Federal Law Enforcement, Joint Cyber Threat Working Groups, DOD and the Intelligence Community.  • Analyze Cyber Intelligence threats (advanced persistent threats) by investigating of cyber security incidents, assisting the DOT Inspector General, FBI, NSA, ARL (Army Research Lab), AFRL (Air Force Research Lab), and other law enforcement agencies with forensic analysis (Malware/shellcode analysis via. tools Encase, IDApro)  • Designed & implemented the department SIEM (Arc sight) to monitor the DOT enterprise (over 20,000 assets). Administration of the DOT security infrastructure consisting of IDS/IPS systems (Snort, ISS, IDSM2, IPS, NFR, Checkpoint IPS1), Vulnerability Assessment tools (Foundscan and Nessus).  • Creating IDS signatures to detect undesired or malicious network activity (i.e. APT, worm scanning and payload propagation).  • Assist in the writing and review of Departmental security policies ( Security Awareness, IDS, Patch Management, Anti-Virus, etc.)  • Ensuring that systems were compliant with departmental rules, OMB mandates & FISMA (NIST guidance).  • Developed C & A (certification and accreditation) documents (System Security Plans, Security Test & Evaluation Plans, Risk Assessments, Contingency Plans) on major systems using NIST guidelines (NIST 800-18, NIST 800-30, 800-53, and more). Managed the continuous Monitoring phase, which included monitoring and mitigating POAM, conducting self-assessments.  • Assist in authoring OMB Exhibit 300 Capital Asset Plan and Business Cases and related content to include performing and documenting analyses of alternatives (AOA), cost benefit analyses, risk analyses, developing performance goals and measures, and authoring related CPIC life cycle documentation to the OMB Exhibit 300 for the IT security portfolio. Inspected and approved information assurance aspect of OMB Exhibit 300. Service Desk Analyst Tier Office of Administration - Washington, DC August 2012 to June 2013 2 - Executive Office of the President  • Responsible for direct interaction with customers either by telephone, electronically or face to face  • Utilized Symantec Endpoint Protection Network Activity Tool to Identify suspicious processes  • Organized and labeled through system libraries within the intranet service  • Maintained problematic ticket system to record and track customer calls and emails  • Aided customers by unlocking user accounts when access to the domain was denied  • Utilized the Active Directory Tool to set group policies  • Formulated accounts for Cisco VoIP phones  • Utilized Nessus Vulnerability Scanner to check for open ports, IP addressing, and Server Hardening.  • Aided users who need Network Drives Mapped  • Provides daily technical support to 350 employees  • Assisted in the preparation/installation of new OS software/hardware on computers  • Applied the use of PC Refresh to setup computers for new users  • Diagnosed and resolved network issues  • Coordinates with I.T. team on asset purchases via the Dell Vendor  • Maintained detailed knowledge of company owned software/hardware  • Solved numerous port issues via Network Server  • Verified IP addresses for network connectivity  • Applied Manage-ID software to Biometric machines for imaging  • Calibrated fingerprint scanner using Cogent 3M software to capture precise images of users  • Configured Iris ID scanner for security recognition upon sensitivity  • Troubleshot network connectivity on site from users' configuration in order to assist with port activation in LAN rooms WAE Intern/Help Desk Tier United States Supreme Court - Washington, DC May 2006 to August 2012 1  • Worked with countless operating systems through the Courtview Database System (vista, windows)  • Identified several glitches/ troubleshoots by first diagnosing the problem, and then resolving them.  • Provided daily technical support on each of the following the network, system connectivity, and e-mail.  • Installed new software per requirement and aided in the setup of new employee computers.  • Assisted in programming operating system from Windows 98, 2000 to XP, and Vista for over 70 workstations.  • Developed and revised data entry in reference to exporting Excel sheets via SQL  • Skilled in Web Design using XML  • Provided daily Courtroom support through case scheduling  • Utilized the Court view database to update the defendants lock up registry once the case is found to be papered  • Assigns cases to specific courtrooms barring the seriousness of the case.  • Provided courtroom support within The Superior Courts Arraignment Section  • Creates and initiates all lock ups from the previous night within the District of Columbia Database.  • Used Justice Data system to update criminal history via (DCPD, FBI, and CSOSA.)  • Provided Hardware setup for Judges, Prosecutors, and defense attorneys (projectors, monitors, laptops, HDMI resolution)  • Assisted in case docketing for USAO prosecutors in arraignment court processes  • Responsible for the implementation, troubleshooting, and maintaining operations of network systems  • Provide desktop support including creating images specific to client requirements and deal with issues pertaining to hardware and applications  • Responsible for configuring and maintaining communications including firewalls, Internet connections, VPN, point to point connections, and remote access  • Build, maintain, and examine core network services including anti-virus and back-up  • Perform routine network maintenance checks as well as configure and manage printers, copiers, and another miscellaneous network equipment  • Windows XP Migration Support Ghost Image Backup/Restore of user data, and email.  • Tier 2 Desktop/LAN support for 1000+ user MS Office environment. McAfee Antivirus  • Windows XP MS Office 2003 Migration, Installation, configuration, and maintenance Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems Shaw University - Raleigh, NC Skills Itil, Comptia, Database, Database systems, Sql, Security, Php, Symantec, Printers, Xerox, 40 wpm, Excel, Outlook, Powerpoint, Word, Word perfect Additional Information IT Skills    • CompTIA A+ Certification  • CompTIA Security+ Certification  • ITIL-Foundation Management Certification  • Windows Operating Systems/ Vista  • Experience with Database Systems  • Knowledgeable in programs such as, Access, Excel, Outlook, PowerPoint, and Word Perfect.  • Knowledgeable with Dell operating systems  • 35-40 WPM  • Experience with exporting data through PHP using SQL.  • Knowledgeable with Xerox Printers, Xerox Printer Servers.  • Knowledgeable with HP Printers, HP Printer Servers.  • Knowledgeable with Lumension Patch Agents Deployments  • Knowledgeable with Symantec Endpoint Protection