Information Security Manager - ATM, Debit, and Teller Technology Information <span class="hl">Security</span> Manager - ATM, Debit, and Teller Technology New Albany, OH I am a Certified Information Systems Security Professional with 15+ years of experience across multiple disciplines of Information Technology. I have consistently been given the opportunity to take on more responsibility due to my ability to learn quickly and the drive to get the job done. I enjoy working in a team environment and interacting with users to gain new perspective on how technology can benefit business operations. Work Experience Information Security Manager - ATM, Debit, and Teller Technology JPMorgan Chase - Columbus, OH September 2017 to Present Manage the risk portfolio for assigned applications within Consumer and Community Banking including conducting risk assessments  ? Partner with Application Development teams to identify, document, and track remediation of control gaps within the environment  ? Serve as a single point of contact for the Application Development teams for Cyber Security processes and programs  ? Develop and deliver monthly risk committee updates  ? Lead scheduling and management of penetration testing for branch applications including the integration of penetration testing into the Agile development lifecycle  ? Support all internal/external audits and ensure timely and effective response for all requests for information on a priority basis Information Risk Analyst - Identity and Access Administration JPMorgan Chase - Columbus, OH March 2017 to September 2017 Performed risk assessments on applications spanning all lines of business to ensure compliance with I&AM controls  ? Partnered and coordinated with Information Owners, IRMs, Application Support teams, and I&AM Controls and Governance to improve controls around access provisioning  ? Implemented process improvements to streamline the assessment process  ? Performed analysis required for control/audit requests and closure of RCSA Action Plans Technology Operations Manager - Identity and Access Administration JPMorgan Chase - Columbus, OH June 2015 to March 2017 Supervised security administration activities on various platforms, applications and systems, ensuring access was granted in accordance with security control policies, established standards and procedures.  ? Ensured information controls, back-up, and recovery strategies were in place across all environments.  ? Participated in audit support activities, as they pertained to access administration, for both internal and external audits.  ? Oversaw staff participation in implementation of security related projects for new/enhanced technology.  ? Interfaced with Line of Business Information Risk Managers (IRM) to identify and resolve potential access control risk issues  ? Facilitated business calls for high severity incidents  ? Worked with global operations management to promote risk awareness and compliance, in line with established IT Control policies, processes and procedures.  ? Developed and implemented effective processes to identify, escalate, report and track risk related issues  ? Provided on-going analysis and reporting on team performance and progress. Information Technology Manager AVON PRODUCTS, INC - Zanesville, OH May 2011 to June 2015 and Pasadena, CA distribution centers comprising 100% of Avon Product's U.S. distribution network. Responsible for a team of 4 local and 3 remote employees.  ? Directly managed all financial aspects of the Zanesville IT department including budgeting, purchasing and vendor management.  ? Managed local projects including local implementations of overall regional and global initiatives.  ? Oversaw and executed internal control processes to ensure SOX compliance.  ? Participated in weekly operational meetings with branch leadership to insure IT initiatives met overall business requirements. Senior Information Technology Analyst AVON PRODUCTS, INC October 2010 to May 2011 Troubleshot issues with the warehouse management system affecting production including working with 3rd party vendor  ? Partnered with Regional and Global IT teams to resolve issues outside the scope of local support  ? Worked with end users to resolve both hardware and software issues including managing their expectations and training  ? Installed and configured Cisco switches  ? Performed daily backup procedures to ensure data availability  ? Supported hardware migrations by Global IT team including attending planning meetings in my manager's absence and organizing teams to test post implementation IT Manager / Systems Administrator MATTINGLY FOODS, INC April 2007 to October 2010 Lead weekly IT meetings to discuss projects/goals  ? Entrusted to make high level decisions and direct IT department  ? Supervised three direct reports and two indirect reports  ? Key member of several project teams involving multiple departments  ? Wrote SQL Queries for business intelligence reporting  ? Automated system administration tasks via scripting Network Administrator MATTINGLY FOODS, INC July 2005 to April 2007 Administer Windows Servers  ? Provided phone and in person support for all office employees including training on business applications  ? Troubleshoot network slowdowns and outages  ? Install network infrastructure including hubs, switches, routers, and cabling  ? Administer RF radio system for warehouse inventory management  ? Researched new technologies to improve operational performance Operations Technical Support MATTINGLY FOODS, INC January 2003 to July 2005 Maintained all PCs including several business-critical machines  ? Provide phone and in person support for all office employees including training on business applications  ? Administer RF radio system for warehouse inventory management  ? Administer security camera system for inventory loss prevention Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology Franklin University - Columbus, OH Associate of Applied Science in Electrical/Electronic Engineering Technology Zane State College - Zanesville, OH Skills VBA, ACTIVE DIRECTORY, NETWORK DESIGN, NETWORK ADMINISTRATION, SQL, SQL QUERIES, LINUX, UNIX, RISK ANALYSIS, BUDGETING, BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE, FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT, RISK MANAGEMENT, BUSINESS ANALYSIS, REQUIREMENTS GATHERING, PROCESS IMPROVEMENT, TEAM BUILDING, PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT, MICROSOFT OFFICE Certifications/Licenses Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) (ISC)2 Member Number 664727 Certified in Risk and Information Systems Control (CRISC) ISACA Certification Number 1926009 ITIL v3 AXELOS Candidate Number 9980025345639411 Additional Information SKILLS    ? Risk Management  ? Process Improvement  ? Team Building  ? Project Management  ? Business Analysis / Requirements Gathering  ? Business Intelligence / Reporting  ? Batch and Script File Development  ? Network Design / Installation    ? Risk Analysis  ? Performance Management  ? Financial Management / Budgeting  ? Microsoft Office / VBA  ? SQL Queries  ? Unix / Linux  ? Active Directory  ? Network Administration / Troubleshooting