Information Security Specialist I Information <span class="hl">Security</span> Specialist I Information Security Specialist I - Boat US Manassas, VA IT professional with 10 years of experience ranging from desktop support, VOIP support and currently building on entry level security and compliance support knowledge in an organization with 700+ users. InfoSec focused experience looking to advance my career within a growing organization where security policies are needed to be proactively enforced. Work Experience Information Security Specialist I Boat US - Alexandria, VA November 2018 to Present • Entry level experience building security operations from startup, establishing security posture and compliance standards (NIST, PCI, and NYDFS).  • Administration of Insights Vulnerability management and Incident Detection and Response software. Solarwinds Log and Event Manager Administrator  • Instrumental in developing and implementing (PKI) multifactor authentication with new smart cards throughout enterprise using Verasec Identity and Access Management tools.  • Responsible for day-to-day IT security operations which include managing assets, assessing threats and vulnerabilities, managing risks, establishing policies, and procedures.  • Admin experience using One Trust Privacy Management Software. Telecommunications Analyst I October 2014 to November 2018 • Support and troubleshoot service tickets related to Cisco Unified CM Administration version 9.0 and 11.5 (Finesse) applications.  • Manage Telecom functions during transition to new facility, hands on with new infrastructure design and rollout.  • Verint Systems version 15.1 - Administration and support of all Call Center applications IT Help Desk Technician June 2008 to October 2014 • Experience in technical diagnostics and troubleshooting techniques for computer systems and networks.  • Provide end-user support for desktops, laptops, mobile devices and software, onsite and remote. Education Bachelor's in Information Systems Security ITT Technical Institute September 2008 to March 2012 Mount Vernon High School High Graduate June 1998 Administering Packaged Contact Center Enterprise(APCCE) - Sunset Learning Institute