IT Project Manager/Unix Administrator <span class="hl">IT</span> Project Manager/Unix Administrator IT Project Manager/Unix Administrator Orange Park, FL Self-motivated Information Systems Professional with over 2 years of experience in the project management of enterprise-level networks to include development and planning, implementation, integration, management and administration. Vast knowledge in security, design, and deployable network communications, proficient in telecommunications systems, Systems Administration, Desktop Support, and Operations Centers. Experienced in training personnel and managing all aspects of an organization's information security system, including researching, testing, training and implementing programs designed to safeguard sensitive information from any possible breaches. Results oriented professional with highly effective communications skills, and a proven track record of sustained superior performance. Work Experience IT Project Manager/Unix Administrator USS George H. W. Bush (CVN-77) - Norfolk, VA December 2016 to February 2019 • Oversees and manages the operational aspects of ongoing projects and serves as liaison between project management and planning, project team, and line management.  • Reviews status of projects and budgets, manages schedules, and prepares status reports.  • Assesses project issues and develops resolutions to meet productivity, quality, and client-satisfaction goals and objectives.  • Develops mechanisms for monitoring project progress and for intervention and problem solving with project managers, line managers, clients and other stakeholders.  • Supports PEO Carriers Training Development Support and Task Project Management in the development of Aircraft Carrier Course of Instructions.  • Provides Subject Matter Expertise in the development of classroom content including Interactive Multimedia Instruction, Instructor Guides, Student Guides, and PowerPoint Presentations necessary for delivery in a classroom, instructor-led format.  • Develops 40-hour Course curriculum for all areas of training to include Familiarization and Operation, Preventive Maintenance, Troubleshooting Procedures, Corrective Maintenance Actions and tasks.  • Led a team of 13 in the daily governance and adherence of all Information Assurance guidelines and policies.  • Led a team of 8 in the management of four NTCSS/UNIX databases ensuring the processing of 1.3 million dollars in critical parts from aircraft maintenance to hazardous material. IT Manager/Radio Frequency Manager Naval Station Panama City - Panama City, FL September 2013 to December 2016 • Executed and maintained network security policies, procedures, and processes, such as system security requirements, security concept of operations, System Security Authorization Agreement, system security plans, and Standard Operating Procedures.  • Monitored, tested, and resolved hardware and software IA problems pertaining to the organization and network environment.  • Met the security certification and computing environment requirements mandated in the Information Assurance Work Force Improvement Program Manual, DoD 8570.01-M.  • Facilitated peer-based open discussion active communication skills to ensure effective communication throughout the organization.  • Setup and managed Virtual Private Network (VPN) connectivity for remote connectivity capabilities. Lead Network Program Manager/Supervisor USS PELELIU (LHA-5) - San Diego, CA September 2011 to September 2013 • Installed and managed 39 Wireless Access Points allowing over 200 workstations the ability to connect wirelessly while underway.  • Led 27 personnel while maintaining 100% accountability of 2188 inventoried items valued over $1.8 million.  • Installed and maintained over 120K feet of fiber, CAT-type cabling (i.e. CAT-5/6/7), other passive and active infrastructure equipment wall boxes, Main Distribution Frames/Intermediate Distribution Frames, switches, routers.  • Prepared, maintained, and updated system documentation including daily management reports needed for network operation and development.  • Migrated 50 Gigabytes of data during the network integration to CANES. No data loss.  • Conducted and maintained an inventory for sensitive items, network infrastructure and computer equipment.  • Led 17 Sailors in the operation, management and maintenance of 22 routers/switches, 1200 workstations, and 32 applications with an inventory in excess of $2.6 million.  • Network and project manager for CICSO Voice over Internet Protocol phones and installing TANDBERG systems to conduct well over 500 videoconferencing meetings that was critical to the safety and welfare of Sailors underway and deployed throughout the Atlantic Fleet.  • Managed the upgrade of the NTCSS/UNIX system in support of 1300 personnel to efficiently track accountability of personnel, order parts, plan maintenance, and aircraft support. Enlisted Frequency Manager May 2013 to August 2013 Internetworking Technician Apprenticeship Cisco 2012 to 2012 SharePoint • PowerShell • Microsoft Server 2008/2012 • Microsoft Office Suite • Kali • Ubuntu • Python • Fedora • RedHat • Metasploit • VMWare • CentOS • Linux • Unix    ADVANCED SCHOOLS AND CERTIFICATIONS  • Security+  • Network+  • Internetworking Technician Apprenticeship (5000 hrs)  • Computer Operator Apprenticeship (2000 hrs) Lead Network Communications Supervisor /EKMS Inspector COMCARSTRKGRU TEN - Norfolk, VA September 2008 to September 2011 • Liaison between 60 afloat units and 29 shore commands in every aspect of IT infrastructures. Provided onsite inspections, guidance and training as necessary to ensure 100% mission readiness.  • Force EKMS Manager, conducted 15 ISIC level inspections and trained afloat units on the proper handling, safeguarding and accounting of COMSEC material.  • Instituted the first IT Helpdesk in organization history, which minimized critical outages and improved service response time for a staff of 300 personnel.  • Maintained, monitored, restored and upgraded a secure multi-site telecommunication center to include 4 classified and 6 unclassified video telecommunications systems while using KG-75, KG-175D, KG-175X, KG-250, KG245 and KIV-19s and Cisco border routers.  • Monitored and maintained Marconi/Ericsson ATM ASX-1200, 4000, BXR 1600 and BXR 48000 Multi-service Switches.  • Maintained mobile communications via Blackberry Enterprise Server (BES).  • Organization Communications Security Representative. Accurately maintained 100% accountability and performed cryptographic actions for all COMSEC keying material and equipment.  • Maintained critical network communications on NIPRNET, SIPRNET, CENTRIXS and JWICS which ensured mission readiness, situational awareness and quick communication response to threat interceptions.  • Supported 32 complex intelligence software applications in support of Anti-Surface, Anti-Air, Anti-Submarine, and Amphibious Warfare while providing near real-time tracking and imagery and secure voice communications in support and Operation Enduring Freedom.  • Conducted and maintained an inventory for sensitive items, network infrastructure and computer equipment.  • Provided video teleconferencing capabilities to 5,000 Sailors and their families to boost morale while deployed. Advanced Network Analyst January 2009 to March 2009 Electronic Key Management System Manager October 2008 to November 2008 Transmission Systems Technician May 2007 to June 2007 Network Security Vulnerability Technician Navy Tactical Command Support System, March September 2002 to November 2002 2001  • Information Systems Administration, June 2000 - August 2000 Education Bachelor's in Computer Information Systems Saint Leo University - Tampa, FL January 2016 to August 2018 A.A. in Business Administration Gulf Coast State College - Panama City, FL 2016 Skills Network Administration, Vmware, IT Management, Customer Service, Strategic Planning, Exchange, Excel Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: E6 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ October 2010 to Present