IT Service Desk Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> Service Desk <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Service Desk Analyst - Advantage Rent-A-Car Saint Cloud, FL Recently graduated Strayer University with Bachelor's degree in Computer Science for a major in Networking Technologies. Completed my Associate's degree in Network Systems Administration from ITT Technical Institute with a 3.63 GPA. Dedicated and self-motivated. Great team player. Microsoft Office / Suite experience. Windows Server 2008/2012 experience. Network and troubleshooting experience. AD/DS knowledge. 7+ years in the United States Army. Retain exceptional verbal and written communication skills as well as excellent mathematical skills. Ability to accomplish any task with minimum supervision. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Service Desk Analyst Advantage Rent-A-Car - Orlando, FL September 2017 to Present • Create, disable, and modify users AD accounts, KACE accounts, RezCentral accounts, and Risk Accounts.  • Use Jira Ticketing System to keep track of computer and network issues for all of the sites across the U.S.  • Track company phones, tablets, and other devices using MaaS360 software.  • Create and disable email accounts using the Exchange Admin Center.  • Setup employee email accounts on computers and on mobile devices.  • Troubleshooting the Internet connectivity issues for all locations ranging from Internet outages to power cycling the various Cisco Meraki switches, Cisco routers, and other network devices that a location may have.  • Using the Meraki Dashboard to view the locations networking equipment status to see what devices are operational, which ones are not getting an Internet connection to them, and determining which ports are live or not.  • Working with the Network Team to deliver much needed network equipment to the locations to improve their Internet and wireless capabilities.  • Working with Toshiba to monitor and maintain all of the locations printers to make sure that they are fully operational with the supplies that they need at all times.  • Working with Tempus Technologies to troubleshoot and resolve all types of issues that may occur with the locations ISC250 model Tempus devices.  • Setup up and install Snapshell ID Scanners and install software on computers at all locations and replacing the ones that don't work anymore.  • Use of TSD Rental website to resolve Snapshell ID Scan and Tempus device issues that may be related to using the devices improperly.  • Setting and taking down workstations for employees within the main location for Advantage.  • Imaging and re-imaging computers for all to Windows 10 OS and installing appropriate software to the computers before sending them back out in the field. Tier One Technical Support for Apple Convergys - Orlando, FL August 2017 to October 2017 • Troubleshot and resolved Apple iOS devices such as iPhones, iPads, iPod touch, and AirPods in a call center environment.  • Used iLog ticketing system to gather the appropriate information to figure out what was going on with the customer's device(s).  • Used a variety of tools to assist in the troubleshooting process and to figure out what was wrong with each device for each customer.  • Used diagnostic tool to analyze and isolate the potential issues that a device may have been having hardware wise.  • Escalated cases to the appropriate departments for the different kinds of Apple products such as Macbook computers, iTunes transactions, and other departments as needed. PC Refresh Technician / Software Install Technician Lockheed Martin - Orlando, FL March 2017 to June 2017 Orlando, FL 03/2017 - 06/2017  PC Refresh Technician / Software Install Technician    • Refreshed and maintained employee and customer PC's and other computer devices to perform at peak proficiency.  • Setup of new employee workstations and VoIP phones throughout the complex.  • Update employees EOL devices with new, improved computers and other devices.  • Conducted Break / Fix computer swaps for clients all over the complex for defective devices and computers.  • Install or reinstall employee's software and hardware depending on which department they work for and what the employee needs specifically at their workstation(s).  • Backup and restore user's data and other information using the Migration Utility Tool or other means to get the all of the user's data that they originally had from their old computer to their new one. Tier One Security Systems Analyst Orlando Health - Orlando, FL October 2016 to February 2017 • Vast knowledge of AD and the inner workings of how to use it.  • Citrix experience.  • Monitor the Security Database for incoming ticket requests or incidents involving access to files/folders in the V Drive or U Drive.  • Look up owners of folders/files to request permission for doctors or staff members to be granted Read-Only access or Read, Write, Modify access to the folder(s) and file(s).  • Resolving complex issues that involve email accounts and Exchange.  • Assign devices to be auto-logged into by other doctors or staff members.  • Using scripts to make resource boxes and PG groups able to send and receive emails from other employees in the Orlando Health organization and other vendors that work with them. Tier One Technical Support Ellucian - Maitland, FL July 2016 to August 2016 • Tier One Technical Support for numerous colleges and universities around the U.S.  • In charge of troubleshooting a variety of issue regarding computers, printers, touchscreen, projectors, Outlook and Gmail accounts, and password problems for students, staff and faculty members.  • Used ServiceNow (SNOW) ticketing system to keep track and update all information from the customers that called in for their IT problems.  • Escalated complex IT issues to the proper department for further troubleshooting of issues. Tier One Technical Support Specialist ZIVELO - Scottsdale, AZ October 2015 to April 2016 • Setting up and/or resolving VoIP phones, printers, and computer issues for all employees, both new and current.  • Recorded all troubleshooting issues both internally and externally into the Desk ticketing system.  • Escalated client and employee issues to the appropriate levels in regards to the complexity of the issues.  • Received and returned client products that needed to be troubleshot or returned back to the client's location for business use again and kept them up-to-date on shipping details.  • Resolved various IT issues within the company such as adding new employees to the company domain and resolved issues with AD.  • Creating, adding and taking away AD groups for employees.  • Kept track of IT inventory on a regular basis to keep up to date on what we have. Network Support Engineer Netfusion Services LLC - Phoenix, AZ March 2015 to May 2015 • Completed a 3 month internship for Netfusion Services LLC at Phoenix IO Datacenter.  • Experience with the use of a ticketing system.  • Configured servers and switches to client specifications. Cargo Specialist United States Army September 2006 to November 2013 • Forklift and RTCH (Kalmar) operator  • Loading and unloading equipment with cargo-handling units both overseas and in-country. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Strayer University - Orlando, FL October 2016 to June 2018 Associate's in Computer Science ITT Technical Institute - Phoenix, AZ March 2014 to March 2016 Skills EXCHANGE (1 year), ACTIVE DIRECTORY (Less than 1 year), MICROSOFT OFFICE (Less than 1 year), MS OFFICE (Less than 1 year), NETWORK TROUBLESHOOTING (Less than 1 year), Help Desk, Tech Support, Customer Service, Call Center Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: Specialist Certifications/Licenses A valid IT Specialist certification Additional Information Core Competencies    • Microsoft Office / Suite  • Windows 2008/2012 server knowledge  • Exchange Server knowledge  • Active Directory/Domain Services knowledge  • Ticketing system knowledge  • Citrix Knowledge  • Network troubleshooting experience  • Excellent verbal communication and mathematical skills  • Troubleshooting and resolving multiple issues with client's devices and other components.