Sr. IT Project Management Consultant Sr. <span class="hl">IT</span> Project Management Consultant Sr. IT Project Management Consultant An analytical, technically savvy, process focused individual with strong communications and leadership abilities. Over 20 years of quality experience in effectively managing large scale complex projects and programs on time and within budget, building solid customer relationships, as well as establishing and working in dynamic team focused environments. Earned an MBA, held an active Top Secret Clearance, and currently certified in the Project Management Institute Methodologies. Experience implementing and integrating SaaS/Cloud solutions with SAP. Also certified as an Epic Tapestry Access and Revenue Cycle Readiness (ARCR) Lead. Work Experience Sr. IT Project Management Consultant Texas Children's Hospital/Health Plan - Bellaire, TX December 2018 to July 2019 Serve as project manager for various multi-faceted strategic and business related projects for the Health Plan. Coordinated resources needed for completion of assigned projects. Used strategic influence, analytical thinking, tactical planning, attention to detail, time management, and conflict resolution skills to effectively perform analysis and facilitate projects. Obtained, validated, and manipulated data from various sources to perform integrated analysis to assist in making informed decisions.    Duties/Accomplishments Include:  • Provided oversight for the successful development, testing, implementation, State HHSC , and global enterprise rollout of the following:  ? Health Plan Enterprise: Epic Tapestry Groundwork and Direction Sessions facilitation  ? Health Plan Claims and Business Operations: Optum Claims Editing Software (CES) Implementation IT Project Management Consultant Halliburton - Houston, TX January 2012 to September 2018 Directed five to six diverse project teams simultaneously, and ensured appropriate staffing using project resource planning. Developed cost effective solutions, evaluated alternatives, and collaborated with business owners and stakeholders to confirm requirements and ensure acceptance. Directed project control activities including but not limited to; planning, cost estimates, risk and issue management, key performance metrics (KPI), project status reporting and communication in accordance with Halliburton standards and process. Oversight of others; allocated and monitors work, coordinates similar activities within a functional area. Interprets and applies directions originating from executive management.    Duties/Accomplishments Include:  • Provided oversight for the successful development, testing, implementation, SAP integration, and global enterprise rollout of the following:  ? Halliburton Technology PSL: Enterprise Project Management (EPM) Online Implementation with SAP Integrations  ? Halliburton International Trade Compliance: HS Classification Machine Learning SaaS Solution with SAP Integrations  ? Halliburton Enterprise: Global Managed Windows and SAP Print Services Deployment  ? Retention Information Management: Microsoft O365 Email Archiving Cloud Solution  ? Sperry and Drill Bits: Data Center Migration and Virtualization  ? Halliburton Legal: Data Archiving Google Cloud Solution  ? Landmark Software Solutions: 3 Iterations of Microsoft CRM Solution with SAP Integrations  ? Landmark Software Solutions: Commission Automation SaaS Cloud Solution with SAP Integrations IT Project Management Specialist Innovative Paradigm Solutions - Washington, DC October 2008 to December 2011 Provided Information Technology Project Management Specialist services in support of the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS) Section, of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). Provided high-level support and guidance to the Government on projects that vary greatly in size, complexity, and risk. Performed a wide range of project management functions on behalf of the Government. This includes analyzing requirements, drafting project documentation, evaluating earned value management performance, coordinating with customers, managing budgets through the Office of Management and Budget 300 process, establishing and maintaining applicable policies, and projecting future system and funding requirements.  Duties/Accomplishments Include:  • Performed Cost Benefit Analysis  • Created Analysis of Alternative  • Conducted Requirements Analysis and Creation Workshops  • Received Multiple Recognition for Performance and Customer Service  • Successfully Assisted Client in Receiving Funding Approval from Congress for critical system redesign.    Enterprise Project Management Consultant  Contracted to British Gas as a part of its Enterprise Project Management Office. Responsible for planning, developing, and executing project schedules and deployment plans for the Enterprise Data Center Transformation Program. Required to work with multiple business partners, traders, and information technology personnel at various levels within each organization on project initiatives.    Duties/Accomplishments Included:  • Ensured Information Protection (IP) and Sarbanes Oxley (SOX) compliance as part of each project managed.  • Scheduled, monitored, and provided reporting on team activities and deliverables ensuring timely and effective handling of production problems and on-time, on-budget project deliverables that met stakeholder expectations.  • Managed multiple projects and tasks at one time and required to work from a high to low level of detail Senior Enterprise Project Management Consultant Dell, Inc - Round Rock, TX January 2007 to October 2008 As a trusted advisor, ensured a positive customer experience through operations delivery execution while providing financial results for Dell. Provided operational excellence, relationship management, quality and governance for a portfolio of Dell IT Services Customers. This position is instrumental to Dell's success and is the single point of contact to the customer during service delivery which ensures project success of Dell's Federal, State and Local Governments, and K-12 IT Services Projects.    Duties/Accomplishments Included:  • Ensured that all IT services provided successfully; meet contract obligations and customer expectations.  • Did not receive less than 8 out of 9 points on any customer satisfaction surveys of IT Services Projects implemented to include but not limited to:  ? Pittsburgh Board of Education, Pittsburgh, PA: Datacenter Migration and Consolidation  ? Bexar County, San Antonito, TX: Datacenter and Network Infrastructure Assessment  ? Georgia Department of Transportation, Atlanta, GA: Exchange 2007 Implementation  ? Louisiana State Senate, Baton Rouge, LA: VMware Implementation  ? U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Washington DC: VMware Readiness Assessment & Workshop  ? U. S. Federal Bureau of Investigation, Washington DC: SAN and Oracle RAC Implementation Director, Information Technology Operations / Security Patriot Technologies, LLC - Arlington, VA September 2003 to January 2007 Oversee the overall tactical support and strategic operations of the Federal IT Services Division. Responsible for developing and managing IT service offerings using innovation and industry best practices, and building/maintaining client loyalty, through operational excellence that will transform the firm into one of the premier businesses in the Public Sector.    Duties/Accomplishments Included:  • Ensured that the day-to-day operations of IT service offerings and support followed all guidelines set by the organization with a strong proactive stance on process improvement/streamlining and meeting/exceeding the current and future needs of our clients.  • Provided hands on leadership of all Technical, Financial, Contractual and Project Management Functions of all clients in Federal Division, to include Department of Veterans Affairs, Defense Logistics Agency, and Army Information Technology Agency.  • Monitored program expenditures and support services against budget and performance indicators. Participated in all negotiations with vendors as well as government clients, always striving for a "win-win" agreement.  • Increased revenues and profits by over 200%, annually.  • Received favorable customer satisfaction surveys of IT Services Projects implemented to include but not limited to:  ? Pentagon Information Technology Agency, Arlington, VA: NISA-P Infrastructure operations  ? Department of Veterans Affairs HQ, Washington D.C.: VA Hospital Barcode Expansion and Datacenter support.  ? Defense Logistics Agency HQ, Ft. Belvoir, VA: Datacenter Support Service Program Manager BAE Systems - McLean, VA June 2001 to September 2003 Overall management responsibility for all technical, operational, contractual, financial and administrative aspects of this complex Government Seat Management Performance Based Program for the Defense Logistics Agency (DLA), providing the entire spectrum of IT services (from remote end-user helpdesk to network and applications management) to include Information Assurance and Change Management. Established and monitored program objectives, budgets, resource/staffing levels, project schedules, and Service Level Agreements (SLA). Focused on Customer Relationship Management (CRM) and developed/ managed client relationships at all levels to include executive management.    Duties/Accomplishments Included:  • Identified, analyzed, recommended, and executed opportunities for enhanced service delivery, process reengineering, cost efficiencies, and increase performance metrics using best practices as well as innovation.  • Provided leadership for all employees on program to ensure completion of tasks on time and within budget utilizing Earned Value Management (EVM).  • Analyzed client business requirements and created performance work statements for all projects.  • Participated in client's Configuration Control Board (CCB) and led monthly Customer Relation Meetings.  • Successfully secured funding and managed to completion 6 of the client's major IT initiatives to include:  ? Windows 2000 Server & Desktop Migration  ? DNSC to DLA-HQ LAN Migration  ? SIPRNET LAN Design and Implementation  ? BSM Local Site Design and Implementation  ? Backbone Modernization & Enclave Boundary Design and implementation Service Delivery Manger CompuCom Systems, Inc - Houston, TX June 1998 to June 2001 Responsible for the overall, 24X7 satisfactory delivery of services to assigned Enterprise Managed Services clients, with services including: Helpdesk, Network Operations Management, Applications Management, and Remote System Management, with over ten thousand end-users, and 1000 network and server devices supported, to include Occidental Chemical, Royal Bank of Scotland, Defense Logistics Agency (DLA-HQ).    Duties/Accomplishments Included:  • Analyzed business requirements and created performance work statements for all projects.  • Served as project manager for new business implementations and growth opportunities to existing clients. Tracking all phases of projects utilizing Microsoft Project.  • Member of Corporate ISO 9000 Certification Readiness and Audits Team  • Developed business strategies in support of cross-functional operations efficiencies.  • Recognized for simultaneously transitioning 4 clients into Service Center with minimal impact to client's production environment Project Leader/System Engineer CompuCom System, Inc - Houston, TX June 1996 to May 1998 Focused on process diagramming, interviewing skills, and project management with an emphasis on CompuCom's project methodology, techniques, standards and utilizing Microsoft Project. Areas of focus were in Windows NT and Novell NetWare Server implementations, Windows workstation upgrades, and hardware installations to achieve common operating environments for clients.    Duties Included/Accomplishments:  • The Men's Wearhouse (TMW) Project Manager/Lead  Provided the technical leadership and logistical coordination of network and field engineers during all phases of a nationwide technology enhancement project. Effectively managed project plan to strict deadlines and resource constraints. Responsible for creating daily status report of project and providing Compucom's and TMW Senior Management with weekly summary status reports highlighting possible project risk and recommended mitigation plan. Developed, tested, and implemented desktop policies and standards for desktop implementations.    • El Paso Energy Project Lead  Acted as liaison for project manager, customer point of contact, and senior engineer. Responsible for organizing and coordinating the required resources, both people and materials, for an enterprise wide Windows 95 desktop rollout. Provided Tier 3 support to network engineers. Also responsible for providing project manager and customer with daily status reports.    • Anthem Health Houston IT Manager  Managed and maintained internal client server resources for entire Houston Claims Division. Provided pc and software support for all users on managed servers. Responsible for obtaining all services and supplies needed for maintaining all network components. Managed team consisted of desktop technicians and remote server administrators. Desktop Technician Hendrix Medical Center - Abilene, TX September 1995 to May 1996 Electronic Data Analyst Office of the Attorney General - Abilene, TX April 1994 to August 1995 Computer Lab Support Specialist McMurry University - Abilene, TX October 1992 to April 1994 Education Master of Business Administration in Business Administration Jesse H. Jones School of Business May 2001 Management Development Program Boston University August 1999 Bachelor of Business Administration in Computer Information Systems McMurry University August 1996 Skills Pmp, Saas, Sap, Service level agreement, Sharepoint, Epic, Microsoft project, Microsoft sharepoint, Microsoft project server, Visio, Operations, Operations management, Claims, P/l, Integration, Contract negotiations, Earned value management, Issue management, Portfolio management, Microsoft office Additional Information SKILLS SUMMARY  Project Management Professional(PMP) Profit & Loss(P/L) Management Epic Tapestry ARCR Lead Microsoft SharePoint Epic Tapestry  Risk and Issue Management Earned Value Management Contract Negotiations Microsoft Project Server HP Project Portfolio Management  Agile Methodology IT Operations Management SaaS Integration with SAP Microsoft Project Web Access Service Level Agreement Monitor  Prime/Subcontract Management Process Reengineering State Readiness Reviews Microsoft SharePoint    COMPUTER SKILLS  Proficient in the use of personal computers and various software applications including:  Microsoft Office Microsoft SharePoint Project Web Access (PWA)  Microsoft Project Microsoft Project Server Epic Tapestry  Microsoft Visio HP Project Portfolio Management Optum Claims Editing System