Federal IT Contractor Federal <span class="hl">IT</span> Contractor Federal IT Contractor - Emergent Information Systems Atlanta, GA Rodney Geathers is an experienced Business Systems and Integration Consultant with over 18 years experience specializing in technical delivery of large, complex Information Management initiatives. Core competencies include strategy, operations, business process re-engineering, full systems development lifecycle from requirements gathering through implementation and Data Analytics, technical project delivery (CMMI) and deep technical skills in the development and delivery of enterprise data management best practices and enterprise applications using best of breed technologies. Rodney earned a Bachelors of Science Degree in Computer Science and a Masters of Information Technology. Work Experience Federal IT Contractor Emergent Information Systems - Atlanta, GA April 2014 to Present Senior Consultant providing enterprise-scale IT services to U.S. Federal Government and private sector clients. Data Mgmt Team Homeland Security - Washington, DC October 2017 to March 2019 • Supported Federal IT Modernization initiatives across OCFO, OFM and M&A  • Enterprise Data Strategy  • Data Management Specialist  • Informatica Product Platform (ETL)  • Cloud Journey (pre / post) Dept. of Homeland Security, Washington, D.C., Sr Technical Advisory Accenture Federal Services - Washington, DC November 2015 to October 2017 • Supported Federal IT Modernization initiatives across OCFO, OFM and M&A  • Data Migration Support  • Informatica Product Platform (ETL) Senior Technical Architect, Business Intelligence Enfathom - Atlanta, GA June 2014 to November 2014 Part of a new technology startup division of North Highland Worldwide Consulting responsible for technical capability (delivery strategy, methodology) and business development activities.    Disney ABC Television Group, Solution Delivery/ ETL Architect  • Created overall strategy / approach for future state architecture for shared enterprise data repository  • Requirements, high level design, Informatica expertise and data architecture (Netezza DWH Appliance)  • Re-engineered Big Data Platform (Hadoop Cluster) into sustainable ETL solution Senior Business Systems & Integration Consultant Accenture - Atlanta, GA May 2007 to February 2014 CISCO SYSTEMS, Business Process Dev Specialist  • Business Data Value Practitioner responsible for managing a small global team through analysis & definition phases of the project.  • Executed enterprise, top-down design of the client's Customer Domain across all business functions.  • Managed project planning activities and workplan  • Provided expertise in data management topics to help drive the Adoption Strategy, as well as the day-to-day tactical tasks focused on obtaining alignment across IT and the Business.    Duke Energy Corporation, Business Analyst  Data Conversion Lead responsible for leading a technical team through all SDLC phases of a project. The project was for merger integration work related to PeopleSoft Financials and the Finance Data Warehouse (FIHUB), focusing on internal reporting requirements. Managed project workplan and communications for technical and non-technical audiences at all levels of management. Lead onshore and offshore teams throughout the creation of designs, development, test prep and execution of Unit Test, System Test and Performance Test. Provided expertise in Informatica and data conversion to help drive the conversion strategy workshops and create the overall integrated approach for the Finance Program Office (FPO). Provided leadership and assistance to FPO and Workstream Leads to validate the integrated approach.    Carnegie Mellon University, Infrastructure Technical Architect  • Assessment supporting IT Strategy led by Accenture's WorkDay Practice.  • Informatica to facilitate data operations, conversion and service as main point of integration between external business systems and the HR data hub via flat file, ETL, and Web Services.  • ETL Architect with sub-lead responsibilities in data architecture to help client migrate their legacy HRIS data to WorkDay (WD) Product; performed data analysis tasks regarding WorkDay HR Modules.  • Installed / configured Informatica PowerCenter Real-Time Edition on UNIX / Windows platforms.  • Created ETL standards, ETL batch design, file handling, security, product configurations, administration tasks, troubleshooting and overall general support of Informatica PowerCenter.    Time Warner Corporate, Delivery Manager  Overall project lead tasked with building a Tax Data Mart to provide an integrated view of corporate and its subsidiaries general ledger (Master Tax COA). Led technical team of 8; 2 onshore and 6 offshore. Responsible for all issues, creating and enforcing leading practices and ETL standards. Provided detail build estimates to client Program Manager, staffing plan, tracking of project financials, monthly invoicing, defect tracking and issue resolution reporting. Development split across two teams (Microsoft .NET and ETL): Deliverables include a web-enabled database application (SQL Server/ .NET technologies) to manage Master Data (MDM) and key reference data (data governance process), integrated Tax Data Model and backend ETL data load processes    CNA Financial Corporation, Integration Competency Center  Collaborated on a team consisting of key client leadership, third-party contractors and Accenture to analyze, design and implement a customized delivery methodology to support CEO's 5-year roadmap to successfully deliver large information management projects. Analyzed client's Enterprise Information Model (EIM) and Enterprise Data Management Strategy to address gaps, recommend enhancements.    Cox Communications, Software Development Lead  Led ETL development team on Big Data analytics program responsible for re-architecting Netezza Data Warehouse as well as supporting parallel development streams to ensure new clickstream data was available in the data warehouse for the Business Intelligence Group. Key responsibilities included Informatica PowerCenter Administration, ETL Architecture, Defect Management, development standards and code reviews.    Consolidated Edison, Data Integration Lead  ETL Lead responsible for driving ETL requirements for an advanced analytics program. Sub-lead responsibilities in data architecture to help client expand their Business Intelligence (BI) capabilities using Oracle 11g product suite (OBIEE+) and an 'out-the-box' data warehouse. Developed ETL strategy for customizing hundreds of Informatica PowerCenter mappings to populate subject areas, Data Warehouse Admin Console (DAC) Schedule. Assisted BI Architect in requirements gathering and design of the business data models in OBIEE. Coordinated and delivered quality ETL development with onshore - offshore development teams.    Shell Trading, Report Data Reconciliation Lead  • Responsible for all technical aspects of the reporting data reconciliation of the Oil Data Warehouse.  • Worked with key stake holders to create strategy, overall approach and design of the solution build.  • Mentored and coached junior resources in technology/ tools (Informatica PowerCenter 8.6x) and advanced concepts such as data modeling, ETL Strategy and Mapping Design\  • Managed onshore / offshore resources throughout SDLC phases.    Shell Trading, Data Migration Lead  • $500 million engagement to retire aging legacy systems used for buying and selling of crude oil, finished products and feedstocks, as well as trading oil futures  • Responsible for all technical aspects of the build phase for bulk data transactions team.  • Worked with Business Analysts to complete data maps, detail designs, unit test and code reviews.    Yale University, Business Intelligence Center of Excellence (BI CoE)  Data Architect Lead  • Performed analysis and capability assessment of current state data warehouse.    ETL Architect  • Led integration team during design and build phases to create system interfaces using Informatica PowerCenter (ETL) to assist in data conversion and migration efforts of Oracle ERP Module (AP).  • Created functional and technical designs with functional teams to resolve data gaps and issues for the overall data workflow and integration into the data warehouse.  • Facilitated workshops with client team to help with Accenture Delivery Methodology (ADM) Adoption  • Provided direction and knowledge of ERP and Informatica PowerCenter across business teams.  • Analyzed data lineage of select Brio Reports to be replaced with Oracle E-Business Suite financial reports and dashboard functionality.    State Farm - Corporate Headquarters, Data Management Specialist  • Data Architecture Lead overseeing design of a data architecture solution to support report requirements.  • Data Architecture included 3 tiers (Raw Stage, Shaped Staging and Integrated Data model).  • Utilized Agile Delivery Approach  • Assisted Business Objects Report Lead in design of Report Data Access Layer (BO Universe) to support ad-hoc functionality.  • Other technical responsibilities included batch architecture, file management, performance, mentoring technical team members and resolving complex issues.    AT&T Wireless, Data Integration Tester  • Responsible for testing the solution delivery of 9.5 Billing Release.  • Successfully created and modified test plans and test scripts for major Retail, point-of-sale application & downstream ETL processes responsible for loading Teradata Data Warehouse.  • Coordinated inter-dependencies for cross-area teams and contractors for successful completion.    AllState Investments, Business Analyst  • Reference Data Management Project comprised analysis, design, build, test and implementation of GoldenSource application using SDLC.  • Developed a Near-Real-Time (NRT) Batch Schedule, Informatica ETL processes, File Management and UNIX daemon scripts Sr. Software Engineer ChoicePoint, Inc September 2003 to May 2007 • Member of Enterprise Data Integration Team responsible for data collection and storage of consumer and business data for Financial Services and Government Industries.  • Successfully integrated disparate business system data into corporate enterprise from multiple company acquisitions.  • Created operations dashboard to help manage daily operations  • Business processes consisted of Informatica ETL processes, SQL Server DTS, Java server-side applications (Data Access Objects), data modeling, data analysis, data cleanse and enrichment activities. Sr.Technical Consultant Manugistics May 2001 to February 2002 Senior Technical Consultant and member of global team for a major Department of Defense Contractor, a world's leading provider of application software and services to the commercial and military aerospace and defense industry.  • Designed and developed B2B applications, ERP data interfaces, Enterprise Application Integration (EAI) and data conversion of mission critical systems.  • Collaborated with other Defense Prime Contractors - Boeing, Northrop Grumman, Raytheon, BearingPoint, BAE Systems, Sikorsky and EDS Information Analyst Electronic Data Systems October 2000 to March 2001 Electronic Data Systems (acquired by Hewlett Packard Co) is a global technology services company delivering business solutions to its clients. MetaVance is a fully integrated enterprise system allowing healthcare organizations to administer benefit programs across multiple companies, lines of business and products. MetaVance's member-centric data model supports consumer directed health as well as a variety of payer processes such as claims processing, member eligibility, and reporting using an operational data store.  • Implemented new Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) federal regulations and ongoing enhancements to the client/server architecture as requested.  • Utilized the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Software Engineering Institute Capability Maturity Model (SEI CMM) Level 2, ISO 9000, and SPI (Software Improvement Process).  • Utilized COOL:GEN to model and develop component-based architectures for a distributed, client/server healthcare system.  • Implemented enhancements to client-side GUI (Graphical User Interface) as well as systems design and integration work for existing batch architectures.  • Created / modified reports for the new sub-system.  • Development was on three platforms: Windows NT/Oracle, UNIX/DB2, IBM OS/MVS OS/390/Cobol  • Developed using CORBA software methodology; generated server-side skeleton and club stubs. Software Engineer Ross Systems January 1998 to August 2000 Ross Systems is a global technology services company delivering business solutions to its clients. Ross ERP is an enterprise resource planning system that helps process manufacturers worldwide to better manage their manufacturing operations with dynamic forecasting and scheduling, formula-based production and yield management, quality control, inventory management, complex product costing, and streamlined regulatory compliance. My role was software development using traditional Waterfall, SDLC and white-box testing.  • Euro Project was a major business initiative to implement new Euro currency for ERP System.  • Web Enablement Project was a major business initiative to implement web enablement technologies for ERP using two technical architectural approaches: Windows DNA Architecture and Java J2EE Architecture using RMI to plug into the middleware API's between the middleware and Gembase; underlying database was Oracle. Ammunition/ Administrative Accountant United States Navy December 1988 to September 1992 • Responsible for Inventory Management & Tracking System of ship's weapons and ammunition onboard  • Managed small office staff responsible for critical operational functions, timely routing of daily expenditures and inventory supplies to supported ship's airwing missions and mission readiness. Education Masters of Information Technology in Information Technology American InterContinental University April 2001 Bachelors of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Winston-Salem State University May 1997 Skills Data analytics, Data integration, Data management, Data migration, Db2 Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: E4 Additional Information Technical Skills / Specialties    Informatica PowerCenter 7x - 10x Digital Transformation , Cloud ITIL 4 Data Migration  Informatica Data Quality Teradata, Netezza, DB2 ERwin Data Management  Informatica MDM Oracle 9i/10g/11g/12g/12c SQL , PL/SQL , T-SQL Data Warehousing  Java / J2EE ERP (Integration , Automation) Data Analytics / BI Delivery Manager  ETL Business Process Re-engineer Data Integration Solution Delivery