DAU Enterprise Cybersecurity Learning Director DAU Enterprise Cybersecurity Learning Director DAU Enterprise Cybersecurity Learning Director - DEFENSE ACQUISITION UNIVERSITY Huntsville, AL Work Experience DAU Enterprise Cybersecurity Learning Director DEFENSE ACQUISITION UNIVERSITY 2015 to Present Enterprise Lead for a team of ten cybersecurity professionals in five different locations  * Team has broken new ground in developing cybersecurity training for DAU faculty and organizations across the DoD  * Team focused on 3 areas:  * Foundational Learning (developing new courses and adding cybersecurity into existing courses)  * Workflow Learning (Updating web presence, on-line tools, and publishing articles)  * Performance Learning (consulting for customers across the DoD and cybersecurity workshops)  * Collaborate with each of the services, DoD Security organizations, the intelligence community, industry and academia to develop cybersecurity awareness, training and education Cybersecurity Learning Director DEFENSE ACQUISITION UNIVERSITY - Huntsville, AL June 2006 to Present Top Faculty Performer – 2015 - Frank J. Anderson Award winner: “Faculty member who best exemplifies the values of: alignment and teamwork, customer focus, performance excellence and speed and agility”. Awarded top performer among over 500 DAU faculty members across the US.    Cybersecurity Learning Director - Lead DAU Cybersecurity Learning efforts. DAU received the 2017 Chief Learning Officer Learning Elite Award as the number one corporate university in America.     Manager - Strong record of achievement in teaching/ curriculum development, cybersecurity, operations management, project management and scheduling, and business/ systems engineering. Systems Engineering and Technology Department Chairman and Professor of Information Technology ( IT) DAU 2006 to 2015 Systems Engineering (SE), and Production, Quality & Manufacturing (PQM) (2006 - 2015)  Lead Systems Engineering and Technology Department, instruct DAU classes in IT, SE and PQM, provide consulting leadership, and lead in curriculum development and course management  * Teaching  * Certified to teach the following classes: Information Resource Management - IRM 101, IRM 201, IRM 202; Software Acquisition Management - SAM 201, IRM 304, SAM 301; Systems Engineering - SYS 101, SYS 202, SYS 203; Production, Quality & Manufacturing - PQM 201  * Student evaluations for all classes taught exceed course averages and DAU standards  * Developed innovative teaching methods to enhance student learning and classroom interactivity  * Leadership  * Department Chairman (2010 - 2015) - Direct supervisor for 14 professors in Systems Engineering, Test & Evaluation, and Information Technology. Department taught over 9,000 classroom hours per year.  * Provide mentoring for new SET employees. This includes hiring four new professors during my tenure as department chair. Developed departmental mentoring process.  * Information Technology Curriculum Development Sprint Team  * Team is responsible for updating and revising all information technology curriculum - 1 on-line course and three classroom courses  * 2015 Foundational Learning Team Award Recipient - Goal - "Deliver high-quality certification and job-specific training to give the workforce long-term knowledge and habits of mind."  * Consulting and Research  * Led research project that combined Information Assurance (IA) and Systems Engineering (SE).  * Oversee all consulting and research for Systems Engineering and Technology Department. Department has taken a major role in DAU-wide research and Excellence in Teaching studies.  * Work closely with Program Offices to develop training courses for over 500 employees. Systems Security Engineer NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION February 2006 to February 2007 Provided security leadership and training to GFC/C Project team members in Huntsville and other sites across the United States  * Conducted site surveys, testing supervision/ oversight for GFC/C sites. Site visits included Shemya, Alaska, Vandenberg Air Force Base, CA, Joint Naval Integration Center (JNIC), Colorado Springs  * Responsible for security for Northrop Grumman related to all GMD activities. Investigated potential security incidents and reported findings to upper level management  * Trained Northrop Grumman GMD employees in security and security classification guidance in Huntsville, Melbourne, Florida, and Colorado Springs, CO Systems Security Engineer NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION - Huntsville, AL May 2001 to February 2007 Provided security leadership and training to GFC/C Project team members in Huntsville and other sites across the United States    Conducted site surveys, testing supervision/ oversight for GFC/C sites. Site visits included Shemya, Alaska, Vandenberg Air Force Base, CA, Joint Naval Integration Center (JNIC), Colorado Springs    Responsible for security for Northrop Grumman related to all GMD activities. Investigated potential security incidents and reported findings to upper level management  ?   Trained Northrop Grumman GMD employees in security and security classification guidance in Huntsville, Melbourne, Florida, and Colorado Springs, CO Systems Engineer/ Project Cost Engineer, GMD Certification & Accreditation NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION - Washington, DC July 2003 to February 2006 Washington, DC (July 2003 - Feb 2006)  Worked with C&A team and government customer to execute and analyze information security testing. Coordinated and supervised C&A test events and reported test findings to customer.  * Assumed program management responsibilities in the absence of program manager.  * Site Coordinator for C&A test event, Joint National Integration Center (JNIC), Colorado Springs, CO.  * Provided leadership across full test event life cycle; test planning, supervision, execution, data analysis, reporting, CM, QA oversight, subcontractor direction, and customer relations.  * Led Security Test and Evaluation (ST&E) efforts at Cheyenne Mountain Operations Center (CMOC) and JNIC at Schriever Air Force Base.  * Developed automated tools using both Visual Basic and Excel for data reduction that reduced data analysis time from two weeks to a few hours in many cases.  * Developed financial estimates; Responsible for quality of all customer deliverables; published resource loaded weekly master schedule; initiated a CM process for customer deliverables.  * Developed training program to ensure document quality and consistency for GMD C&A Program. Review process was reduced from 1 week to 2 days due to focus on quality at the source. College of Administrative Science UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA IN HUNTSVILLE - Huntsville, AL August 2005 to December 2005 * Professor of MIS 146 - Computer Applications in Business  * Instructed semester long class of 30 to 35 students in applying Microsoft Office (Word, Powerpoint, Excel, and Access) software applications to the business environment.  * Instruction occurred in a computer laboratory setting and deliverables included tutorials, oral presentations, projects, case studies, exams, and Web-based training and testing. Scheduling and Planning Analyst NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION May 2001 to July 2003 Responsible for all scheduling and planning activities related to the Longbow Missile P3I Program. Used both Microsoft Project and SAP for scheduling and Earned Value Management  * Facilitated more than a 50% reduction in procurement processing lead-times for critical components.  * Achieved 100% on-time delivery of all contract deliverables for a period of over one year. Senior Production Planner SUMMA TECHNOLOGY, INC - Huntsville, AL August 1996 to May 2001 Responsible for all ISO 9001 compliant production control activities for NASA’s X-34 rocket engine and for planning production activities for government and commercial contracts.    Worked closely with all levels of Summa management and NASA in order to respond to material, product, and manufacturing challenges. Recognized by NASA for program contributions.    Enhanced planning and improved manufacturing processes; increased on-time deliveries by 20%. Production Planner / Senior Production Planner SUMMA TECHNOLOGY, INC August 1996 to May 2001 Responsible for all ISO 9001 compliant production control activities for NASA's X-34 rocket engine and for planning production activities for government and commercial contracts.  * Worked closely with all levels of Summa management and NASA in order to respond to material, product, and manufacturing challenges. Recognized by NASA for program contributions.  * Enhanced planning and improved manufacturing processes; increased on-time deliveries by 20%. Production Planner / Master Scheduler / Customer Service MAGNETEK - Huntsville, AL January 1995 to August 1996 Responsible for all final assembly production scheduling, customer service, data entry and planning.  * Reduced excess and obsolete inventories of finished goods and components by approximately 10%.  * Reduced final assembly lead times to meet electronic ballast demand from 12 weeks to 4 weeks. Production Control Supervisor DISC MANUFACTURING - Huntsville, AL October 1992 to December 1994 * Managed up to 20 people in scheduling, planning, production control, and data entry.  * Developed detailed work instructions for all production control responsibilities. International Missions Board Missionary to the Philippines INTERNATIONAL BAPTIST CHURCH - Manila August 1990 to July 1992 2 years)  * Led youth and singles ministry that grew from 10 members to over 70 members.  * Taught and developed youth ministry seminary class at the International Baptist seminary. Education MBA in Supply Chain Management and Finance Indiana University, Kelley School of Business, Bloomington - Indianapolis, IN August 2004 BS in Commerce and Business Administration University of Alabama - Tuscaloosa, AL May 1987 Skills Microsoft Office Expert (10+ years), Instructor (10+ years), Cybersecurity (10+ years), Management (10+ years), Leadership Development (10+ years), Six Sigma Green Belt (5 years), Systems Engineer (5 years), Operations Management (10+ years), Teaching, Public Speaking, Team Building Awards 2015 - Frank J. Anderson Award 2016-01 “Faculty member who best exemplifies the values of: alignment and teamwork, customer focus, performance excellence and speed and agility”. Awarded top performer among over 500 DAU faculty members across the US. Certifications/Licenses Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) March 2006 to March 2011 Globally recognized cybersecurity certification APICS Certified in Production and Inventory Management (CPIM) March 1992 to Present Highly valued certification in the Industrial and Operations Management field efense Acquisition Workforce Improvement Act (DAWIA) level 3 certified in IT, SE and PQM February 2007 to Present DoD Acquisition Training Certification - Highest level available in the following career fields  Information Technology  Systems Engineering  Production, Quality, and Manufacturing TS/SCI clearance