Software Engineer Software Engineer Software Engineer Auburn, WA Full product lifecycle development and project management experience and expertise - software/hardware ? Project management in the fields of Information Technology, Software Manufacturing & Development. ? Over 18 years of experience mentoring and training soldiers and support staff in civilian and military environments ? Development and implementation of project management documentation throughout product lifecycles: requirements, specifications, service level agreements, risk assessments, and mitigations, requests for proposal, user documentation and project closure materials/lessons learned. ? Business Analyst - Manage Vendor Relationships ? Document management systems administration utilizing SharePoint ? MS Visual Studio - Team Foundation Server ? Experience putting together presentations in MS PowerPoint & Visio, presenting to all levels of management and technical staff ? Training for MCSE Certification (Software Development/SQL).  STILL IN SCHOOL FOR BS Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer MSA - Richland, WA July 2019 to Present ·        Troubleshoot software production issues  ·        Design databases  ·        Develop using .NET technology  ·        Understand and follow established Software Development Process  ·        Assist with providing estimates  ·        Assist with gathering requirements from customers  ·        Develop technical documentation  ·        Communicate effectively with good written and communication skills Senior Systems Administrator Aero Controls Inc - Auburn, WA 2017 to Present • Manage all IT systems functionality and operation to support Company objectives.  • Effectively communicate with end users to improve efficiency through training and product implementations.  • Project Management  • Assessment and advisement of eminent or potential risks.  • Preserved Company information by checking consistency of disaster recovery and back-up procedures.  • Maintain quality service by establishing and enforcing organization standards.  • Maintaining uptime of all IT related systems according to the KPI standard set forth.  • Responsible for the management and support of four major systems - Web/ERP system, SQL database,  • Contributed to team effort by accomplishing related results as needed.  • Enforced and followed all policies and regulations.  Technologies: VMWare, Azure, AWS, C#, React, Angular, SQL, puppet, SAAS IT/Software Consultant eWeb Development LLC - Honolulu, HI 2009 to Present • Manage over 50 clients' accounts and projects for software development.  • Supervise, train and mentor 8 employees in software development.  • Full stack Application Developer.  • Developed C#/VB .NET application for financial institutions, large corporations, and US Army Reserve HI.  • Maintain multiple web sites and MS SQL Database server for over 50 companies.  • Create project for non-profit organization (Feeding Hawaii Together .org), Host, and maintain applications.  • Create responsive web sites.  • Use tools for Google analytics, Google maps, Google sitemap, Bing Web tools, Azure, AWS, and other Google tools.  • Project management using Microsoft Project 2010, and Visio.  • Install Dell, HP, and X serve servers.  • Configure Windows server 2012 with active Directory.  • Implement and configure MS SQL 2008-2016.  • Implement and configure Symantec End Point over a network of computers and servers.  • Managed IIS7 and sites.  • Managing live C# .NET Food Pantry application.  Technologies: C#, SQL, MVC, JSON, JQuery, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, AWS, Azure System Analyst General Plastics - Tacoma, WA 2015 to 2016 • Contribute to the IS department with the support of the ERP system.  • Convert old FileMaker Pro databases to MS SQL.  • Extend functionality of the current ERP system with custom code.  • Encourage the use of new/current technologies to improve the support of the company.  • Create QA Test Data web application to manage test results  Technologies: C#, SQL, MVC, JSON, JQuery, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, AWS, Azure IT Manager eWeb Development LLC - Kent, WA 2014 to 2015 • Systems Administrator - Manage company systems in a windows environment. Manage software to maintain company stability.  • Network Administrator - manage network stability and security. Reconfigure WAN connections. Created static routes. Replaced hardware for better traffic.  • Phone System Administrator - manage and configure PBXs, MBXs, VOIP phones and call manager systems.  • Support maintenance of current website, with full stack bug fixes.  • Develop knowledge-based application to support end users.  • Reduce cost of services.  Technologies: C#, SQL, MVC, JSON, JQuery, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript ASP.NET C# Web Application Developer StarrTech Interactive - Honolulu, HI 2008 to 2009 • Web Application Developer  • Developed C#/VB .NET application for financial institutions, large corporations (Symantec, Bank of Hawaii, and ASB).  • Administer web sites and security.  • Created project for building of company.  • Create widgets.  • Create a mobile application for Bank of Hawaii.  • Used tools for Google analytics, Google maps, Google sitemap, AWS.  Technologies: C#, SQL, MVC, JSON, HTML, CSS, JavaScript IT Consultant ICE Systems, Inc - Honolulu, HI 2006 to 2008 • Systems/Network administration as consultant for multiple customers.  • Oversaw over 100 workstations, 45+ Microsoft Servers & VMware hosts, all remote sites  • MS SQL 2000 - 2008.  • Created Intranet with SharePoint Portal 2003 and 2007.  • Assists maintaining corporate Databases.  • Provides analysis for problems and provides solutions for a wide range of operational and support problems to meet customer requirements.  • Maintains documentation of the various hardware and software solutions.  • Problem solve and troubleshoot of various software and hardware products.  • Develop and implement software and procedures to improve system performance.  • Recommend methods and technologies that improve overall operations.  • Trained end users. Systems/Network Administrator US VETs Initiative - Kapolei, HI 2004 to 2007 • Maintain System and Network.  • Developed web application using .asp and ColdFusion to handle client cases.  • Train users how to use web application and MS Office applications.  • Created security policies.  • Systems/Network Administrator.  • Manage MS Exchange. Information Systems Security Technician NCOIC U.S. Army - Schofield Barracks, HI 1989 to 2004 • Install user profiles and security access for information systems.  • Configure, install, maintain and manage security settings and passwords for an organization with 97 desktop computers and 29 laptop computers to include Dell, Gateway, GTI and Everex with Windows 95, 97, 98, NT 4.0, 2000 - 2003 and the Defense Message System.  • Lead Communication team.  • Train over 250 Soldiers on computer and radio satellite systems. Information Maintenance Technician NCOIC U.S. Army - Schofield Barracks, HI 1989 to 2004 • Network/Systems Administrator  • Performed troubleshooting, repairing and configuration of software and hardware  • Assisted in upgrading systems  • Setup and installed information systems and networks  • Installed and maintained electronic mail services and user profiles  • Trained users on information systems. Single Channel Ground to Air Radio Assistant Instructor U.S. Army - Schofield Barracks, HI 1989 to 2004 MARS)  • Deploy, perform troubleshoot, repair, maintain and instruct single channel ground to air radio systems  • Instruct tactical wide area network. Site Lead NMCI/MCBK MCB - Kaneohe, HI 2003 to 2003 • Managed the successful deployment and installation of over 500 seats and fiber network connectivity.  • Planned the LAN architect over a fiber network.  • Ordered seats according to specification of priority and user level.  • Worked on a team of twelve to accomplish the success of the deployment and cutover on a military installation. Education Advanced Software Development University of Phoenix - Honolulu, HI March 2017 to Present Associate in Computer Technology Heald College - Honolulu, HI Monterey Peninsula University - Schofield Barracks, HI Skills SQL, access, Excel, testing, Business Intelligence, Powerpoint, MS Office, HTML, Microsoft Office, Visio, SAP Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/carlelmore Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: E-5