Plebotomist 2 Plebotomist 2 Panama City, FL To obtain a Fulltime Position with Result Driven Corporation  Salary Requirements: Negotiable Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Plebotomist 2 Biomedical Systems - Panama City, FL January 2018 to Present Job Tasks    Match laboratory requisition forms to specimen tubes.    Dispose of contaminated sharps, in accordance with applicable laws, standards, and policies.  Dispose of biomedical waste in accordance with standards.    Draw blood from veins by vacuum tube, syringe, or butterfly venipuncture methods.  Collect biological specimens from patients.    Dispose of blood or other biohazard fluids or tissue, in accordance with applicable laws, standards, or policies.  Dispose of biomedical waste in accordance with standards.    Draw blood from arteries, using arterial collection techniques.  Collect biological specimens from patients.    Draw blood from capillaries by dermal puncture, such as heel or finger stick methods.  Collect biological specimens from patients.    Enter patient, specimen, insurance, or billing information into computer.  Maintain medical records.    Organize or clean blood-drawing trays, ensuring that all instruments are sterile and all needles, syringes, or related items are of first-time use.  Clean medical equipment.  Prepare medical instruments or equipment for use.    Collect fluid or tissue samples, using appropriate collection procedures.  Collect biological specimens from patients.    Collect specimens at specific time intervals for tests, such as those assessing therapeutic drug levels.  Collect biological specimens from patients.    Determine donor suitability, according to interview results, vital signs, and medical history.    Transport specimens or fluid samples from collection sites to laboratories.  Transport biological or other medical materials.    Process blood or other fluid samples for further analysis by other medical professionals.    Monitor blood or plasma donors during and after procedures to ensure health, safety, and comfort.  Monitor patients to detect health problems.    Provide sample analysis results to physicians to assist diagnosis.    Document route of specimens from collection to laboratory analysis and diagnosis.    Explain fluid or tissue collection procedures to patients.  Explain technical medical information to patients.    Conduct standards tests, such as blood alcohol, blood culture, oral glucose tolerance, glucose screening, blood smears, or peak and trough drug levels tests.  Conduct diagnostic tests to determine patient health.    Train other medical personnel in phlebotomy or laboratory techniques.  Teach medical procedures to healthcare personnel.    Perform saline flushes or dispense anticoagulant drugs, such as Heparin, through intravenous (IV) lines, in accordance with licensing restrictions and under the direction of a medical doctor.  Give medications or immunizations.    Conduct hemoglobin tests to ensure donor iron levels are normal.  Conduct diagnostic tests to determine patient health.    Calibrate or maintain machines, such as those used for plasma collection.  Maintain medical equipment or instruments.    Administer subcutaneous or intramuscular injects, in accordance with licensing restrictions.  Give medications or immunizations.    Serve refreshments to donors to ensure absorption of sugar into their systems.  Feed patients. Supervisor MEDIA SOLUTIONS March 2015 to Present Administrator Lead IT Lead Tech (Contracted) Intellipro Group Inc. - Panama City, FL Present Customer Service, Accounting,Execute pre-defined procedures and scripts to upgrade existing PCs to the new operating system   Responsible for performing a windows 7 migration deployment from XP to Win 7. I was working through IntellsPro , however I was representing CompuCom at the Option Care locations. I was conducting the following tasks.  • Install replacement hardware/de-install old hardware for PCs to be refreshed ( move new equipment to desk, remove and box old equipment, load Windows 7 image on new box, migrate user data, install applications, quality check to ensure system functioning, obtain user validation of properly functioning PC).    Skills/Experience:  • A+ cert or equivalent desired  • Experience installing Windows 7 image from USB flash drive and migrating user data from old to new machine/image with USMT scripts or equivalent  • Experience with variety of desktop hardware platforms/vendors  • Ability to perform migration tasks with minimal supervisory guidance    Computer Imaging,responsible for overseeing other computer techs and training them on programming corporate systems in Windows XP Inventor Media Solution Present Dispatcher for disaster relief and disaster relief volunteer worker American Red Cross July 2001 to November 2017 Responsible for working 911;hurricane Katrina; the tornado that hit Enterprise Supervisor, Customer Service General Dynamics IT - Lynn Haven, FL August 2012 to February 2015 Accounting; (yellow belt Project Manager Certified) Conducting interviews and hiring individuals for the company; Responsible for accounting , Pay roll and supervised over 400 Agents for the Affordable Health Care Act. Responsible for Creating and executing spreadsheets and power point presentations. Overseeing Empower: Avaya ;RTA software. Overseeing NGD software development.  • Practice GDIT values and act as a role model.  • Supervise, develop, and coach CSRs to assure productivity, quality, attendance, and timeliness of work in the completion of assigned projects and departmental goals.  • Perform tasks to assure service level requirements and adherence goals (such as real-time adherence (RTA) and average handle time (AHT) are met.  • Assume leadership responsibility for department tasks and contact center activities as required.  • Review, approve, and sign timecards on daily and weekly basis as required in the timekeeping policies.  • Complete and deliver employee performance appraisals.  • Work closely with CSRs and other supervisors, customer service managers, and program managers within functional areas of the contact center.  • Participate in the interview process and recommend hiring contact center staff.  • Understand the CSR Monthly Balanced Scorecard Metrics and performance scales and coach for improvement of results.  • Attend calibration sessions for the purpose of keeping current on quality changes.  • Facilitate and deliver training as required under department guidelines including essential job training (EJT), initiatives, and up training. Ensure 100% completion for all direct reports.  • Act as a point of contact as required.  • Support and enforce contact center expectations as well as departmental and corporate policies and procedures.  • Log in to queues as required during high call volume or all hands status.  • Communicate pertinent program updates in a timely manner.  • Maintain department records.  • Recommend, complete and deliver corrective actions as applicable.  • Maintain schedule flexibility due to business needs; anticipate assigned shift change at any time.  • Review contract scope and requirements.  • Perform other duties as assigned  • Ensure full adherence to COR requirements Security Guard Officer DNA Security/ American Security 2010 to 2014 3rd shift Responsible for training new security gaurds; Writing accurate reports; CPR Certified; Manning my Post and securing areas during spring break Business Analyst and Auditor II Health Check Systems - Port Saint Joe, FL April 2012 to June 2013 Accountant for major medical corporations. Creating and submitting spreadsheets and affidavits to major hospitals and medical insurance corporations for medical billing purposes. Also performed auditing calculations on major medical systems. (Reason for leaving) job ended. Security Administrator Holiday/Hilton November 2009 to July 2010 third Shift) Security Guard administrator and accountant for the Hilton P2S 24hr Utility Worker/ 121 Hazmat training for Disaster Relief Team w American Red Cross 2010 to 2010 Loan Processor Sallie Mae 2008 to October 2009 Insurance Agent Liberty National Life Insurance Company January 2004 to February 2008 Responsible for preparing financial reports for Million dollar Policies, Financial advisor  Gannet/Montgomery Advertiser(POSITION) NIE Fundraiser, Constructed Business Proposals/Grants for the company to receive major donations from CEO's of banks and Major cooperations, Researched and found Major companies to do benevolence to NIE, Created financial spreadsheets, Responsible for conducting Presentation with Corporate heads, Responsible for raising funds for this particular organization, Created inventive ideas for raising more finance Accounting Manager Aronov Realty - Panama City, FL January 1999 to February 2005 Accountant Administrator Management  Aronov Realty - Montgomery, AL  2000 to January 2005  Responsible for hundreds of millions of dollars worth of commercial property accounts, Responsible for accounts payable and recievable, Responsible for preparing budget sheets through Linux systems  Administrative duties over commercial accounts Accountant Administrator Aronov Realty - Montgomery, AL 2000 to January 2005 Responsible for hundreds of millions of dollars worth of commercial property accounts, Responsible for accounts payable and recievable, Responsible for preparing budget sheets through Linux systems  ; OSI /Bellsouth collections (3rd shift), (POSITION) Account Representative Duties: Collections certified to collect monies on accounts payable that were late, Librarian I City of Montgomery,Troy State University - Montgomery, AL 1981 to 2003 Trained on coming librarians and worked in the research department. Responsible for all duties concerning the library;logged ant tracked basic problems; Designed Intent drawings as assigned.Updated existing application inputs.  Conduct advanced literature searches in multiple databases (PubMed, Embase, Cochrane, PsycINFO, EconLit, BIOSIS, CINAHL, etc.) as a part of a project team  Track journal subscriptions and other resources to report usage and evaluate for renewal  Obtains pricing for annual license renewals  Conduct database search training and coordinate vendor-sponsored trainings  Request copyright permissions, establish collaboration agreements, and answer copyright questions  Manages Reprints Desk document delivery account  Research and answer reference questions  Establish and refine processes to support library operations  Reviews new products/resources and set up trials  Organize and maintain library and research materials which includes electronic repository, print book and journal collection, and other reference materials  Assist with article retrieval when needed  Guides manager in goal-setting and strategic planning  Support project teams as requested  Update library pages on the intranet (SharePoint)  Perform other tasks, as assigned. *Loan Coordinator and Underwriter Duties Northeastern Financial Services - Montgomery, AL 1996 to March 2002 Accounting, and attending closings, Analyzing credit, processing loans, heavy bookkeeping software used Genesis, preparing financial reports, creating spreadsheets, Preparing business proposals for commercial loans in large sums of over a million dollars, preparing business proposal for church loans, Constructed legal Affidavits to help clear credit (POSITION)Assistant Coordinator Duties Now & Future Gen. Co-op 1995 to 2000 Constructed Grants /Business Proposals, Prepared budget sheets to assess company overhead expenditures, Coordinated major demonstrations to change laws in legislation, Heavy bookkeeping and accounting 3rd shift. Liaison for Doctors and Nurses Baptist Med 1994 to 2000 Baptist Med. East Phlebotomist PRN Editorial Assistant Maxwell AFB Curriculum Div - Montgomery, AL 1992 to 1994 Dispatcher responsible for heavy bookkeeping Emergency Management Agency 1989 to 1994 Education BA in Court Reporting Prince Institute - Montgomery, AL 1998 Degree /Business Admin in Business Admin Bristol University - Bristol, TN 1992 License in Current Certificate Bo Goodson's School of Realty - Detroit, MI Certification in Real Estate Bo Goodsons school of realty - Montgomery, AL Skills Excel (10+ years), Customer Service (10+ years), Conflict Resolution (10+ years), Computer Skills (10+ years), Quickbooks, Billing, Payroll, Accounts Payable, Scheduling Certifications/Licenses Six Sigma Green Belt May 2020 Microsoft Word August 2019 Microsoft Certified Professional April 2019 CPR January 2017 Supervisor Training February 2019 Class D Security License January 2011 to July 2013 Security Guard Additional Information • Diverse computer experience with CRT's, PC"s, (Microsoft Office Software; MS Word, Excel, QuickBooks) and other office equipment such as 10 key; PBX operating and Linux systems.  • Over ten years experience in consumer relations and Dispatching.  • Completed 400 hours of Customer Relations in-house training courses. Trained Advocate.  • Hands-on experience and training in Business Education, Sales, Financial Management, and Market Management.  • Ability to construct and edit military and confidential documentation as well as proposal creations conforming to company protocol and policies.  Worked with the Curriculum Division on Maxwell AFB (edited the test Books)  /created tests and training products for students.  • Dedicated team player and self-starter with great attention to data as A Tax preparer.  • Over 121 Hazmat Training Hours w/ BP and the American Red Cross  PROFESSIONAL ACCOMPLISHEMENTS  Bookkeeping Skills  • Responsible for maintaining accuracy of financial records.  • Maintaining company asset information.  • Managed financial control over consumer accounts.  • Performed general duties in accounts payables and receivable.  • Loan Processor and accounting  Administrative Skills, Customer Service, and Accounting Experience Management experience.  Provided help desk support for training products  •Certified Advocate for Baptist Medical South Center ER  •Certified with American Red Cross Disaster Relief Team 13yrs. • Certified as sales consultant for product knowledge with General Motors vehicles  • Identified, responded to and resolved collection issues and other customer complaints and conflicts using negotiation and conflict resolution techniques in efforts to sale a product.  • Educated consumers in a responsible, accurate, and professional manner to communicate contractual agreements with both external and internal contacts.  • Dispatched for Emergency Management Organizations  • Liaison to CEO on numerous business propositions and sales.  • Managed/supervised and provided unlimited support during times of high-pressure.  • Originated Commercial loans from major companies and organizations.  Over 10 years of Business to Business, outside experience.  Organization and Writing Skills  • Created and executed a format and system for closing loans and processing loans improving timeliness while lowering administrative cost.  • Responsible for preparing budget sheets to assess company overhead expenditures.  • Constructed legal affidavits to help clear credit providing the ability to close loans.  • Constructed Business Proposals /Grants Both Profit and Non-Profit organizations.  • Updating and installation of various software and hardware programs.