Service Specialist/Network Administrator Service Specialist/Network Administrator Network Administrator/Engineer Wyandotte, MI Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Service Specialist/Network Administrator Lowes - Southgate, MI April 2016 to Present Complete merchandising reset and service-related projects within budgetary and time constraints while delivering all desired objectives and complying with merchandising and safety standards. Liaise with customers to design custom computer layouts of all doors and windows projects. Respond to customers' enquiries and resolved all concerns along with troubleshooting network connectivity issues and notifying about orders. Deliver assistance to clients by identifying and fulfilling shopping requirements as well as guiding in selection of products through demonstrations. Advise customers/contractors on home renovation ideas, deck designs, concrete needs, insulation, roofing, and lumber.  Key Achievements:  * Utilized outstanding problem solving and active listening skills to diffuse difficult customer situations with tact and ease, achieving winning outcomes for both customer and company.  * Acknowledged by senior management for displaying hard work, dedication, dependability, prompt and reliable attendance, and willingness to work overtime as needed. IT Security Infrastructure Operations Ford Motor Company - Dearborn, MI December 2015 to April 2016 Provided extensive operational support for maintaining security infrastructure, comprising of CA/CLM, FIM, P-Synch, Secure Email, and SecurID. Tracked and maintained performance of systems/servers while managing GSS/CSM Load Balancer Support. Updated and safeguarded administrator accounts and passwords. Optimized and strengthened security infrastructure while maintaining configurations.  Key Achievements:  * Delivered active operational support for Active Directory (AD), consisting of approximately 300 internal and external windows servers, 250K users' objects, and 350K computer objects. IS Security Administrator Meritor - Troy, MI July 2015 to December 2015 Managed Unix/Linux/Windows server access by using identity management system tool. Deployed and configured new servers within the identity management tool to manage server access. Established groups and accounts on Unix/Linux/Windows servers to ensure smooth workflow. Identified new and terminated user accounts in identity management tool and communicated about the same to senior management. Oversaw VPN access/removal and password modifications along with troubleshooting network errors. Facilitated active directory users and groups as well as aided users by monitoring group incident ticket box, using the Remedy force ticket system.  Key Achievements:  * Administered more than 200 servers on a virtual farm and focused on enhancing efficiency and performance. Security Services Analyst Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan/Blue Care Network - Detroit, MI July 2012 to January 2015 Collaborated and cooperated with LAN and Mainframe teams to manage provisioning and de-provisioning of user access and rights to BCBSM/BCN systems and network resources using NASCO/ACF2/TSO and Active Directory. Provided support for auditing requests and special investigations as well as dealt with users on trouble tickets to provide a positive resolution. Developed and implemented procedures for access control functions, such as access provisioning/de-provisioning, attestation, reconciliation, log reviews, and IAM procedures. Steered implementation of IAM processes and related procedures as well as contributed in process improvement projects to identify potential process improvement areas. Rendered technical support to clients, management, and staff in risk assessment and implementation of appropriate data security procedures and products. Checked group inbox and administration queues to answer daily questions, leading to increased user satisfaction.  Key Achievements:  * Identified areas of concerns/improvements as well as proposed changes to procedures and systems, resulting in enhanced system security.  * Monitored and evaluated performance against defined metrics and service levels, consistent with Information Security Division strategic plans and business service level agreements. Access Administration Specialist Siemens - Rochester Hills, MI January 2009 to July 2012 Education Bachelors Degree of Applied Science in Graphic Design Technology in Graphic Design Siena Heights University - Southfield, MI com Microsoft IT Academy - Southfield, MI Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, DHCP, NETWORK CONNECTIVITY, NETWORK PROTOCOLS, REMOTE ACCESS, Customer Service, Networking, Windows, Microsoft Office, Technical Support, access, Mac, Windows 7, Vmware, security, Sales Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/dave-poziemski Certifications/Licenses MCPS: Microsoft Certified Professional Present