Security Analyst II <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> II Highlands Ranch, CO An Information Technology professional with extensive experience managing multiple projects in various environments including: software development, medical compliance and training. Demonstrated leadership abilities; client management; technical consulting; developing and implementing process improvements and procedures; software licensing compliance; budgeting; Web development; instructional design; training delivery; requirements gathering; SDLC Implementation; telecommunications and network management and support. Solid skills in organizing and planning, results oriented, team player, committed to quality with excellent communication skills. Work Experience Security Analyst II Catholic Health Initiates - Englewood, CO February 2016 to Present Manage and track IT contracts by working with Security staff and vendors on Security product purchases & maintenance renewals.  • Provide ongoing communication to management related to corporate assets, Corrective Action Plans (CAP), and Security Risks.  • Collaborate with IT staff to coordinate risk and compliance related activities.  • Maintain Security Polices and Standards by working with operational owners and security staff Security Analyst October 2015 to February 2016 contract)  • Manage and track IT contracts by working with Security staff and vendors on Security product purchases & maintenance renewals.  • Provide ongoing communication to management related to corporate assets, Corrective Action Plans (CAP), and Security Risks.  • Collaborate with IT staff to coordinate risk and compliance related activities.  • Maintain Security Polices and Standards by working with operational owners and security staff Systems Business Analyst (contractor - Modis) Denver Health - Denver, CO September 2015 to October 2015 Responsible for gathering requirements, performing technical analysis, and developing product/project documentations and troubleshoot issues. Systems Business Analyst (contractor - Indotronix International) Xerox State Healthcare - Denver, CO March 2015 to September 2015 Denver, CO 3/30/2015 - 9/11/2015 (contract)  Systems Business Analyst (contractor - Indotronix International)  • Responsible for gathering requirements, performing technical analysis, and developing product/project documentations and troubleshoot issues.  • Work with Product/Project Managers and external customers to test/analyze ICD-10 Medicaid Test claims per HIPAA requirements.  • Responsible for technical analysis and troubleshooting for existing products to support client requests for software defects and enhancements. Implementation Manager (EMR) Axion Health - Westminster, CO August 2014 to January 2015 • Responsible for the delivery and implementation of the ReadySet EMR software using a SaaS platform. Responsibilities include: helping customers who have purchased the EMR system to transition to using the system effectively, close customer contact, change management, as well as training/mentoring.  • Responsible for teaching customer's to use the EMR system effectively and efficiently according to best practices. Implementation Specialist McKesson Specialty Health December 2012 to August 2014 Implementation Analyst/Trainer (EMR) May 2012 to December 2012 contract)  • Manage the training and workflow process for installation of iKnowMed electronic medical records (EMR) for cancer clinics throughout the USA.  • Conducts onsite and/or web based training to clinical and non-clinical staff. Adjusts training to customer workflow and assists in the development of training materials.  • Provides primary support for customer base during project implementation. Analyzes and redesigns workflow as needed. IT Implementation Specialist/Trainer (EMR) Centura Health - Englewood, CO May 2011 to April 2012 contractor - Connecting People)  • Provide one-on-one and classroom training to other trainers as well as clinical staff on the use of LSS Clinical/Financial EMR.  • Responsible for leading other trainers during implementation of EMR for various Centura clinics to ensure tasks were completed, issues were escalated, additional user needs were addressed and communication to team members and upper management was timely.  • Created and updated existing job aides for trainers and clinical staff. Sr. Records Management Coordinator Western Union - Englewood, CO February 2011 to April 2011 • Involved in the management of active, inactive and vital records, and records retention and data privacy for the corporate office.  • Responsible for the technical support and management of internal records and information management (RIM) system including configuring users and report management.  • Developed internal training plan, training materials and trained internal users on the use of the RIM processes in compliance with organization policies and procedures. Project Manager / HIPAA Privacy & Security Rocky Mountain Cancer Centers - Greenwood Village, CO March 2006 to May 2010 • Successfully managed multiple facility deployments/relocations working in conjunction with US Oncology Corp IT and local IT which affected a significant number of users. Responsible for managing customer concerns, project requirements and engaging necessary resources to successfully complete project commitments including communications with sponsors (SOW and project plans), stakeholders and support staff. Presented oral and written reports defining plans, issues and resolutions to various levels of management. Developed RFP's for several new projects including Document Management, Data Center Relocation, Inventory Management and Audit processes. Worked with vendors to manage and implement approved projects.  • Shared responsibility for technical support of 14 cancer centers within Colorado consisting of over 500 work force members. Support included: computer hardware deployment and support, user training, telecom support, and numerous internal software applications.  • Responsible for continuous development of methodologies and job aids used within IT to successfully support our large user community; analyzed results and implemented process improvement procedures which provided consistent, cost effective and time saving support functions for IT department.  • Implement Electronic Medical Records (EMR) system to 9 cancer centers. Included working with the software vendor to ensure hardware and network structure would support the system, hardware was installed and that time lines were met. Worked with the IKM trainer during clinical staff super user training.  • Acted as the HIPAA Network Privacy and Security Official for RMCC. Investigated/researched privacy and security issues and provided direction and support to users. Conducted needs analyses and ensured legal compliance for required training programs as well as performed ongoing Privacy and Security training and job aids for staff members. Project Manager Nelnet Inc - Aurora, CO October 2005 to March 2006 • Responsible for the direction and management of medium to large sized projects throughout the project life cycle, including SOW and project plans. Ensure that projects align with corporate strategy and satisfy customer needs by coordination between clients, operations and technical staff.  • Responsible for planning, scheduling, monitoring and directing projects to ensure a complete business solution was implemented on time and within budget.  • Ensure project team followed methodology selected for projects and produced quality deliverables.  • Identify and resolve project issues, managed project risk, projects were delivered on schedule and within budget which led to subsequent phase and customer acceptance. Project Manager TeleTech Holdings - Englewood, CO July 2004 to October 2005 • Partnered with new and existing customers to implement call center services for small (25 seats) to large size projects (100+ seats) both in the United States and International sites (Manila, Argentina, UK).  • Work with multiple resources including; Instructional Design, Quality Assurance, Technology, Technical Quality Assurance, Web Development and Management.  • Responsible for planning, scheduling, monitoring, and directing projects to ensure a complete business solution was implemented on time and within budget.  • Ensure project team follows methodology selected for projects and produced quality deliverables. Identified and resolve project issues, managed project risk, projects delivered on schedule and within budget and had led to a subsequent phase and customer acceptance. Education Project Management Metropolitan State College Denver, CO and Colorado Women's College Denver - Denver, CO Skills Security