Information Security Analyst Information <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Information Security Analyst - Amadeus Hospitality Durham, NH Work Experience Information Security Analyst Amadeus Hospitality September 2018 to Present • Monitor the security of critical systems and changes to highly sensitive security controls to ensure appropriate system administrative actions, investigate and report on noted irregularities.  • Manage the SIEM infrastructure  • Ensure organizational compliance with information security programs based on ISO27001 standards.  • Investigate potential or actual security incidents to identify issues and areas that require new security measures or policy changes.  • Conduct network vulnerability assessments using tools to evaluate attack vectors, identify system vulnerabilities and develop remediation plans.  • Collaborate with business units to determine continuity requirements.  • Implement disaster recovery testing methodology.  • Perform annual risk assessments including asset, threat and vulnerability identification. Provide recommendations to improve security for critical assets.  • Respond to customer security questionnaires and act as a contact person for internal security questions. Network & Systems Administrator Amadeus Hospitality August 2012 to September 2018 • Network and Systems administrator for cloud-based hospitality management software. Currently managing over 1200 global users with roughly 2000 physical and virtual machines.  • Proficient with Cisco Catalyst 2900 and Nexus 5595 switches.  • Maintain 70+ site-to-site IPsec VPN's using Cisco ASA 5505, 5510 and 5585 as well as deploy new VPN's when necessary.  • Extensive understanding of LAN and WAN protocols including, but not limited to: DNS, DHCP, FTP, SFTP, SMTP, RDP, SSL/TLS.  • Experience with hardware and software-based firewalls. Cisco PIX and ASA, Juniper, Palo Alto and Windows firewall.  • Experience using network protocol analyzers such as Wireshark, tcpdump, and Microsoft Network Monitor.  • Experience with SQL 2005, 2008, 2012 servers with knowledge of database structure and structured query language.  • Experience with Active directory; adding users, creating group policies, and user restrictions.  • Experience with several VMware products: ESXi 5.0, vCenter, and VMware Workstation.  • F5 load-balancing and familiarity with NLB and clustering.  • Deployed Windows updates and packages using Microsoft's SCCM 2007 and SCCM 2012.  • Managed and tracked alerts and systems health on all production servers using Microsoft's SCOM 2007 and SCOM 2012. IT Support Representative/Help Desk Amadeus Hospitality January 2011 to May 2012 • Broad knowledge in desktop, laptop and server hardware, including refurbishing the same.  • Experience with Windows XP, Windows Vista, Windows 7 and multiple distributions of Linux.  • Proficient in all Microsoft Office 2003-2013 products and familiarity with Office 365.  • Managed an average of 50+ support tickets per week assisting up to 500+ global employees.  • Provided support using remote access applications, Citrix, Microsoft RDP, LogMeIn, Juniper Network Connect SSL VPN remote access clients for remote users  • Experience with disk imaging software, specifically Symantec Ghost, CloneZilla, Microsoft Windows Deployment Services. Systems Administrator/Technician Lead Newport Computers - Rochester, NH June 2005 to December 2010 • Provided desktop, server and network support to 50+ employees while also managing a group of computer technicians.  • Experience with Exchange 2003 and 2010; performed general troubleshooting procedures relating to email connectivity issues along with user creation and implementing a disaster recovery plan.  • Implemented and managed WatchGuard Firebox.  • Created training manual for all new technical associates.  • Designed and implemented an IT business disaster recovery plan using backup on and off site. Education Associates Degree Great Bay Community College - Stratham, NH 2011 Skills Security