Sr. Security Analyst Sr. <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Sr Systems Engineer/ IT Manager Moseley, VA Systems Architect/Engineer    Solutions and performance driven IT professional, systems architect, administrator and systems manager with 20+ years of experience in strategic IT management and infrastructure design, implementation, maintenance, and support. Career marked by progressive promotions gained through demonstrated skill in the utilization of technical, analytical, and managerial skills in network technologies, applications, development, and systems support.  • Develop, manage, and oversee IT teams, technical roadmaps, and implementations as well as strategic and day-to-day operations for IT infrastructure support and processes.  • Plan, organize, direct, control, and evaluate the information systems operations, projects, and staff, working collaboratively across all levels to evaluate and plan system requirements, specifications, budgets, and strategy.  • Manage and hold accountability for all aspects of technical direction and support functions, including security policies and procedures, network design and architecture, and hardware/desktop/server/storage support.  • Senior Engineer with a successful track record leading network operations, migrations, installations, and upgrades across a multi-location user environment. Work Experience Sr. Security Analyst Altria - Richmond, VA September 2018 to Present Provided administration and lead support for Privileged Access Management (PAM) Application. Assist PAM Team with implementation, architecture, configuration and support of user issues.  • Develop support processes for users and PAM support team • Develop and implement application monitoring and reporting • Assist with meeting governance requirements through reporting and validation of application usage Services Manager/ IT Architect NDSE, Inc January 2018 to March 2018 Lead and manage a team of 10 systems and user support engineers. Work with clients to develop operational processes, server/virtualization architecture, implementation and maintenance procedures, roles, and responsibilities. Maintained hands-on Tier 3 Windows systems/storage administration, firewalls and support of client infrastructures. Ensure that service SLAs and customer satisfaction levels are being met.  • Led the implementation and support of new virtual and non-virtual Windows/AD environments for clients.  • Performed various migrations for Exchange Server, SQL Server, Active Directory and Windows servers. Sr. Solutions Architect Convergent Technologies Group January 2016 to January 2018 Responsible for all systems, storage, data center, cloud and DR infrastructure designs. Work with customers to replace outdated IT systems with a more advanced, scalable design that will provide true ROI over the next 3-5 years while reducing TCO, RPO and RTO. Demonstrate the use and benefits of newer technologies as Hyper Converged systems, blade infrastructures, cloud/hybrid-cloud computing, virtualization and single management. Provide senior level installation and technical support for all HPE systems, storage, SimpliVity, 3PAR, Nimble and various HPE software and hardware.  • Led various migrations for Exchange Server, Office365, AWS and AZURE.  • Led the implementation of various MDM solutions including but not limited to: VMWare's AirWatch, Mobile Iron, Manage Engine's MDM Plus. Sr. Systems Engineer - Team Lead - Network Services Bowlmor-AMF May 2015 to January 2016 Oversaw and team lead for all IT systems and storage administration. Conducted interviews and trained new staff. Team Leader of 3 support engineers in all aspects of systems, hardware, software, mobile, and server support, maintenance, and upgrade projects.  • Re-architected and led the implementation and support of a new Microsoft Exchange infrastructure comprised of VMware, Fiber Channel SANs and clustering/replication technology. Improved overall uptime by 40% and reduced issues and performance related to online backups.  • Managed the seamless upgrade of 13 VMWare ESXi servers to v6.0 and served as senior administrator on a virtualization project to improve SAN and compute performance.  • Re-architected and led the implementation of the data warehouse upgrade project consisting of 8 SQL Servers, EMC Storage and VMWare.  • Implemented Manage Engines PMP Product to improve operational efficiencies and compliance while reducing associated risk. IT Contractor Elephant Auto Insurance April 2015 to May 2015 Systems Architect  Provided system design and administration support for all Windows 2000/2003 and LINUX Servers.  • Designed and Implemented a Windows server and desktop software deployment and patching solution utilizing KACE K1000 and K2000 Systems Management Appliances Architect/Director of Technology SnagAJob.com Corp - Glen Allen, VA February 2012 to February 2015 Promoted to build, manage, and provide high-level oversight of systems, storage, security, network, and user support operations, teams, policy, and infrastructure. Planned and implemented company wide technology and policy direction, managing a staff of 15, and providing Tier 3 systems and storage support. Evaluated and procured all IT equipment, services, hardware, and software, effectively managing a $5M annual operating budget. Architected administered, and managed company wide production environment, web-based infrastructure, storage and server network, and support infrastructure for 250 users.  • Led the planning and implementation of a $2M infrastructure replacement project to replace antiquated infrastructure with HP/3PAR storage arrays and 32 HP DL380 VMware servers, 8 Exchange Servers, 15 SQL Servers and over 800 web/application servers in QA and Production environments. Slashed annual operating costs 30%, increased response time by 4ms, and improved uptime to over 99.9999%.  • Lead administrator for database and server upgrade project consisting of 15 SQL Servers, 8 Hadoop Servers, 6 Mongo DB Servers and 2 HPE 3PAR high performance storage arrays.  • Led the implementation of Centrify to improve security and operations while providing MFA for our applications.  • Held direct responsibility for the architecture and administration of VMware servers, Windows 2008/2012 Active Directory, AWS/AZURE, DNS, DHCP, DS, firewalls and identity access management, certificate stores, SAN administration, and the administration of SMTP antivirus and anti-SPAM applications, MDM services, SSO and various ITIL platforms. Lead Engineer/Manager of Technology Services SnagAJob.com Corp - Glen Allen, VA June 2010 to February 2012 Promoted to build, lead, manage, and develop a team of 10 systems and user support engineers. Developed operational processes, server/storage implementation and maintenance procedures, roles, and responsibilities to launch the newly-created department during a period of significant company growth. Maintained hands-on Tier 2, storage administration, and senior Exchange administrator responsibilities.  • Designed and implemented a fully redundant data center from the ground up; procured all equipment and services for the center comprised of 95 servers.  • Lead the upgrade of AirWatch platform and MDM Application upgrades for various company applications.  • Held direct responsibility for the architecture and administration of VMware servers, Windows 2008/2012 Active Directory, AWS/AZURE, DNS, DHCP, DS, file services, certificate stores, SAN administration, and the administration of SMTP antivirus and anti-SPAM applications, MDM services, SSO and various ITIL platforms. Senior Systems Engineer SnagAJob.com Corp - Glen Allen, VA October 2006 to June 2010 Oversaw and was directly responsible for all aspects of IT systems and network administration and the management of user support functions. Hired, trained, and supervised team of 2 support engineers in all aspects of systems, hardware, software, mobile, and server support, maintenance, and upgrade projects. Served as senior VMware, Exchange, MDM, Windows, Linux, network, and firewall administrator.  • Re-architected and led the implementation and support of a new Microsoft Exchange infrastructure comprised of VMware, iSCSI SANs, and clustering/replication technology. Improved overall uptime to 99.9999% and saved $45K in annual costs associated with the maintenance of outdated infrastructure.  • Designed and Implemented MDM solution utilizing AirWatch in an effort to protect company resources and information being accessed from personal devices.  • Managed the architecture and implementation of a technology infrastructure upgrade project. Improved response time by 8ms and achieved an uptime of 99.99% with the replacement of outdated technology with Cisco switches and firewalls, HP servers and storage, and Brocade fiber channels. Senior Systems Analyst Markel Corporation - Glen Allen, VA February 2003 to October 2006 Provided system administration support for all Windows 2000/2003 servers, Exchange Servers, SQL Servers and Oracle Servers. Served as senior Exchange administrator for 14 servers and senior SAN administrator for approximately 150TBs of disk storage on EMC and StorageTek networks.  • Designed the email infrastructure and served as technical lead for implementation of the company's new email system, transitioning 1,600 users from Novell GroupWise to MS Exchange 2000 across 6 sites.  • Managed the seamless upgrade of 14 Exchange 2000 servers to an Exchange 2003 environment and served as senior administrator on a virtualization project to migrate 180 servers to a VMware environment.  • Optimized SAN setup and production management, saving $35K annually by eliminating need for the procurement of additional storage.  • Redesigned corporate Exchange cluster, saving $20K annually by maximizing existing clustering software and eliminating Veritas cluster server. Sperry Marine - Sys Engineer, Charlottesville Northrup Grumman September 2002 to January 2003 Provided system architecture and support for all Windows 2000/2003 servers. Served as Senior Exchange architect for 14 servers and Senior SAN administrator for approximately 150TBs of disk storage on EMC and StorageTek networks.  • Designed Novell Netware NDS to Windows 2000/.NET AD migration plan for 85 servers and 1000 user workstations. Designed company wide Active Directory Schema.  • Designed Groupwise 5.2 to Exchange 2000 migration plan for 5 sites and 1000 users.  • Implemented Windows 2000 server and Exchange 2000 migration test network.  • Implemented and tested GroupWise and Exchange 2000 connectors, calendar connector and synchronization service.  • Provided SAN and NAS Administration and support.  • Developed migration plan for migrating UNIX Network File Systems to Windows 2000 AD.  • Developed Windows 2000/.NET, DNS, DHCP, Exchange, SQL Server, Desktop and SMS security policies and procedures.  • Designed and implemented backup and recovery procedures for Active directory and Exchange.  • Installed, configured and administered Veritas Backup Exec for Windows 2000, Exchange 2000, SQL Server and .NET servers. Data Center Supervisor Relera Internet Centers and Solutions - Richmond, VA February 2001 to August 2001 • Managed a team of 4 IDC Technicians in a 24x7 environment.  • Project manager for all IDC build out and IT projects.  • Performed system administration on Juniper/CISCO routers, Windows 2000 DELL servers, Solaris 8 Servers, Netscreen Firewalls, F5 BigIP/DNS appliances and CISCO Secure IDS.  • Performed installation and configuration of all NAS and SAN hardware.  • Network, Fire systems, security systems, UPSs, PDUs, HVAC, and water detection.  • Developed disaster recovery procedures for network and IDC mechanical outages. Business Systems Manager Electronic Arts Corporation - Charlottesville, VA June 1999 to February 2001 • Manager and Sr. Systems Architect for a 12 member Help Desk responsible for all NT, Windows 2000, Exchange Servers, SQL Servers, SMS Servers, IIS Servers.  • Provided systems administration and support for all Solaris (2.6, 7, and 8) Servers, LINUX, HP-UX Servers, CISCO routers, Cluster Servers and dialup modem pools for all online gaming servers.  • Designed and implemented backup and disaster recovery solutions for all services • Provided administration and configuration of all external storage devices • Designed and assisted in the build out of the new data center powering EA.COM utilizing 650 SUN, HP-UX and Dell Windows 2000 Servers (Store Edge, Power vault and EMC), Juniper routers, firewalls and IDS units.  • Perform physical and computer security audits utilizing ACL and Kane. Sr. Technical Staff Manager AT&T - Bridgewater, NJ May 1997 to June 1999 • Manager of a co-located 20-person Operations Systems Support Group and Help Desk, for a 24x7x365 Security/Fraud Organization.  • Provided Sr Systems Administration for all NT, UNIX, HP-UX, Novell servers and associated MS and UNIX applications for the AT&T Fraud Detection Center.  • Developed and implemented Disaster Recovery Plans and backup procedures for all servers and network appliances utilizing Veritas Backup Exec, Net Backup, and server clusters.  • Created and implemented Computer and Physical Security policies.  • Developed the hardware and application architecture of 800+ workstations (Windows 3.11, 9X & NT).  • Successfully managed the project of relocating the 24x7 Consumer Security Group, consisting of 250 employees, from Alpharetta, GA to Atlanta, GA within the 0% downtime required.  • Re-designed, installed and managed the installation of an Ethernet LAN which utilizes NT, Windows 9x, Cabletron HUBs, CISCO Routers, SUN Workstations, SUN Enterprise Servers, HP Servers, IBM RS6000 Servers, resulting in a 75% reduction of network collisions and a cost savings of $185,000/yr. Technical Staff Manager AT&T - Bridgewater, NJ July 1994 to May 1997 • Supervisor of a co-located 15-person Operations Systems Support Group and Help Desk, for a 24x7x365 Security/Fraud Organization.  • Developed and implemented Computer and Physical Security policies.  • Developed and implemented Disaster Recovery and backup plans for all network appliances and servers utilizing Veritas, EMC and StorageTek products.  • Performed quarterly network and security audits • Provided Tier 3 systems administration and support for all NT, AIX and Network servers.  • Project Manager and lead administrator for all IT related projects.  • Designed and administered the migration of an 800+ organization to MS Exchange Server, resulting in a yearly cost savings of $250,000 dollars.  • Managed customer satisfaction surveys and improved customer rating from 88% to 93% • Evaluated and procured all of the IT related hardware and software for an 800+ organization.  • Participated in a 24x7 on-call rotation Asst. Supervisor, Human Resources AT&T - Morristown, NJ March 1990 to July 1994 • Supervised 8-person Help Desk required to provide systems and telecommunications support for a 200+ 10x7 customer support organization.  • Successfully managed the migration of UNIX/Console users from a VT200 terminal environment to a Windows NT environment.  • Assisted in the design and implementation of an Ethernet LAN that utilizes various AT&T UNIX and Windows NT Servers that provide application support for various HR systems.  • Performed complex UNIX, NT, and Informix SQL system administrative functions for all mainframe, mini computers and network servers.  • Procured, installed, and maintained all software and hardware from both internal and external vendors.  • Evaluated new software and hardware products and set the BU standard for each. Education Project Mgmt Certification George Washington University Skills architecture (10+ years), Exchange (10+ years), Security (10+ years), Sql (10+ years), Vmware (10+ years), access, Active Directory, testing, Sharepoint, Microsoft Office, training Certifications/Licenses HPE MASE Server Infrastructure January 2018 to Present HPE ASE Server Administration June 2018 to Present HPE ASE Data Center and Cloud Architect June 2018 to Present