Senior Information Security Engineer Senior Information <span class="hl">Security</span> Engineer Information Security Engineer Edmonds, WA Forcepoint Web Security, Email, and DLP Administrator  Configured hybrid proxy settings (on-prem vs off-prem+VPN vs off-prem)  Manage and implement web proxy exceptions  Configured Endpoint DLP policies, rules, and action plan  Developed, documented, and implemented rules to guard against specific data exfiltration paths  LogRhythm (SIEM) Administrator/ Analyst  Security alarm use case development and implementation  Log Source management and maintenance  Responding to alerts and security alerts  Tenable Vulnerability Analyst  Dashboard creation  Query creation  Scan creation and execution  Vulnerability Management of Endpoint Systems  Reduced total endpoint vulnerabilities by 37% within the first 30 days of being tasked with vulnerability mitigation. (Start: 6464 total -> 30 days: 4127 total)  Used Tenable to assess vulnerability related risk across the organization.  Researched, documented, presented (change control board), and implemented changes necessary to improve the organization's security posture.   Researched, assessed, documented, and submitted risk exception items.    Also into web development. I have a projects in github. Have been working with Node.js/Express, React, MongoDB, and Elasticsearch. Work Experience Senior Information Security Engineer King County - Seattle, WA November 2018 to July 2019 Security guidance and risk assessment for county initiatives and projects   Developed Vulnerability Management Program (Rapid7 Nexpose/insightVM) Adjunct/Part-time Faculty Edmonds Community College - Lynnwood, WA April 2019 to June 2019 Taught class on Windows Server Technology + Security.  DNS, DHCP, Active Directory, IPAM, and VPN technology Information Security, Senior Analyst (FTE) American Savings Bank May 2017 to May 2018 Title: Lead Endpoint/SCCM Administrator (Contractor)  SCCM (System Center Configuration Manager)  ? Packaged, tested, and deployed Applications using SCCM; Applications were fully configured with detection methods and automated uninstallation methods.  ? Created and deployed Configuration Items and Configuration Baselines which utilized  PowerShell to evaluate deployments and other systems settings.  ? Configured, tested, and deployed complex, high impact Task Sequences, such as bank-wide  firmware updates to over 1000 systems.  ? Manually packaged and deployed many legacy applications or application that required several  steps to complete installation.  ? Routinely executed bank-wide (branch and back office) major software deployments with high  success rate.  ? Created SCCM/PowerShell training videos for other staff members.  PowerShell  ? Used PowerShell to perform security/hardening related functions such as disabling legacy  protocols/technologies on endpoints, automating the retirement of inactive accounts, and upgrading firmware on vulnerable systems.  ? Used PowerShell to automate the backup of configuration files on business critical systems across all branches.  ? Created custom logging with both PowerShell and VBScript for various automated processes,  easing in the discovery of failed components or missed backups.  ? Used PowerShell to create and automatically import several security group related lists to be  used in the SIEM ( Security Information and Event Management System) for security alerts.  Forcepoint Web Security, Email, and DLP Administrator  ? Configured hybrid proxy settings (on-prem vs off-prem+VPN vs off-prem)  ? Manage and implement web proxy exceptions  ? Configured Endpoint DLP policies, rules, and action plan  ? Developed, documented, and implemented rules to guard against specific data exfiltration paths  LogRhythm (SIEM) Administrator/ Analyst  ? Security alarm use case development and implementation  ? Log Source management and maintenance  ? Responding to alerts and securi  Tenable Vulnerability Analyst  ? Dashboard creation  ? Query creation  ? Scan creation and execution  Vulnerability Management of Endpoint Systems  ? Reduced total endpoint vulnerabilities by 37% within the first 30 days of being tasked with vulnerability mitigation. (Start: 6464 total -> 30 days: 4127 total)  ? Used Tenable to assess vulnerability related risk across the organization.  ? Researched, documented, presented (change control board), and implemented changes  necessary to improve the organization's security posture.  ? Researched, assessed, documented, and submitted risk exception items. SCCM Engineer (Point of Sale Endpoints) Insight Global February 2017 to April 2017 SCCM - POS Hardware Rollout  ? Used SCCM to convert existing legacy packages to full Applications  ? Packaged new software into SCCM Applications  ? Used PowerShell to augment an existing Build Verification Script in order to parse certain logs for errors that could have occurred during the system build/deployment  ? POS roll-out over PCI-DSS compliant network  ? Utilized PowerShell and VBScript to automate the installation and configuration of applications  ? Configured custom silent install/uninstall applications with file-system/registry detection  methods Intune Support Engineer 2RBConsulting November 2016 to February 2017 Microsoft Intune  ? Developed training material (videos and documentation) on the integration/configuration of  SCCM with Microsoft Intune  ? Worked with Microsoft Enterprise Mobility + Security (EMS) suite and provided support to premier customers.  ? Provided MDM (Mobile Device Management) support for SCCM/Intune Hybrid environments.  ? Troubleshot scenarios include Wi-Fi, VPN, Email, mobile app (including Line of Business Apps),  policy, and certificate profile deployments, Azure/Intune Conditional Access, device enrollment, and occasional Windows Update troubleshooting.  ? Performed customer environment and configuration reproductions on multiple platforms  including Apple iOS, Android/Samsung KNOX, Windows 10, Windows Phone and Mac OS.  ? Advised customers on Intune/Azure best practices with regard to Conditional Access, Mobile  Application Management, and Compliance Policy configurations.  ? Proficient with Microsoft ticketing system MSSolve. NetOps Junior World IT Solutions August 2016 to November 2016 Network Operations: Short-term Contractor  ? Configured Port Security with Cisco IOS  ? General network troubleshooting and configuration SCCM Administrator ( IT Specialist IV) Edmonds Community College September 2007 to August 2016 SCCM Administrator for Versions 2007/2012/1511  ? Designed, Implemented, and Maintained SCCM Environment (2007, 2012, 1511)  ? Built, maintained, and deployed Windows 7 and Windows 10 images for the campus  ? Built and maintained all Client Operating System Deployment Task Sequences (Windows 7/10)  ? Packaged and deployed custom software applications with SCCM  ? Configured and deployed Configuration Baselines with SCCM  ? Troubleshot various problems with SCCM implementation when they arose  ? Used C# to develop front-end user account tool for ease of Active Directory administration for part time staff  ? Assisted in hardware acquisition and hardware lifecycle Education B.S. in Information Technology Western Governors University 2013 A.S. in Computer Information Systems Edmonds Community College 2011 Skills Cyber Security, Cissp, It Security, Information Security, SEC, Javascrsipt (3 years), Node.JS (1 year), React (Less than 1 year), Web Development (1 year) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/joshmadakor https://drive.google.com/drive/u/2/folders/1nl2Lho8v2o79p4qysl0QILF-_I4cSIuz Certifications/Licenses CISSP June 2015 to Present CompTIA Security+ July 2016 to Present ITIL June 2015 to Present Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) January 2016 to January 2019 CompTIA Network+ November 2011 to November 2014 Assessments Technical Support — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/f9m6g5-k5o7xbell Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.