Systems Engineer/Lead Infrastructure Team Lead Systems Engineer/Lead Infrastructure Team Lead Systems Engineer/Lead Infrastructure Team Lead - NCI Information Systems, Inc Sierra Vista, AZ Dynamic motivated Telecommunications Engineer-Project Manager with over 28 years of domestic and international experience in operating the development, installation, and maintainer of telecommunications systems. Track record of operating multimillion-dollar projects for U.S. Military. Proficient with Routers & Switches, Lucent 5-ESS Switching Systems, Cisco VoIP, Nortel DMS 500 & SL100 Switching Platform, Siemens EWSD Switch, ATM, LAN, WAN, and MAN (L1 & 2 ). WLAN Infrastructure installation. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Engineer/Lead Infrastructure Team Lead NCI Information Systems, Inc - Fort Huachuca, AZ May 2015 to Present As Infrastructure Team Lead, I manage a team of Infrastructure Techs with consist of both NCI tech as well as Sub-contractors, we perform site surveys and installs for MTF's (Medical Treatment Facilities) for all military services. During surveys we document current site LAN/WLAN configurations and user requirements, design and optimize LAN/WLAN topologies. I direct and lead development engineering installation packages for sites that are assigned to me. Develop on-site schedule with NCI site lead and Govt Lead from ISEC. I also mobilize LAN/WLAN Infrastructure team, direct and lead documentation such as updating Red Lines and changes to how cabling must be ran. I lead and perform as part of a team in providing LAN/WLAN modernization support for the MTF's, support installation to a common standards-based telecommunications infrastructure for the DoD global Medical community, ensuring the most current technology available and ensuring hardware technology advances can be incorporated throughout the delivery schedule. Provide survey, design and installation activities to include LAN/WLAN infrastructure and final testing and evaluation. Provide direction or support to all deliverables to include site survey report, survey design report, site installation report and closeout documents, and prepare test reports. Proficient in testing WLAN equipment and networks and following the standard test procedures. Experienced in troubleshooting WLAN with the DTX 1800, 5000 and using the Air-magnet. Capability Manager NCI Information Systems, Inc. - Sierra Vista, AZ Present See my resume IT Capability Manager, Senior/Team Lead (Top Secret Clearance) NCI Information Systems, Inc - Fort Huachuca, AZ December 2014 to May 2015 As the Lead Capability Manager, I manage a small team of Capability Managers to provide strategic and tactical information support to assigned teams in the organization that oversees the operational planning, of the NETCOM B2E Remedy 8.X ITSM GTC (Global Ticketing Consolidation) project for NETCOM G-35. I assist the government in preparing, staffing, coordination, validating, and executing project management plans and reports. These requirements include, Concept of Operations, Test Plans, Project Plans, draft Work Breakdown Structure, TTP's, Communication Plans, Sustainment Plan, Configuration Control Plans, Project Transition Plans, Risk Assessment Mitigation and Management Plans, and Project Schedule and Milestones. Develop and maintain documentation of integration progress, support the Operational Engineering Directive (OED) and ISEC (ITSM) Implementation Plans. I review and recommend modifications to existing documentation supporting the integration into operational and planned environments, which include, SCCM, SCOM, ARC sight, CA-Spectrum capability management and engineering, OOBM, IdAM, C4IM Service List Catalog, and SLM. I review CIOG-6, PM P2E, ISEC and NETCOM Scoffs, G3/5/7 documentation and Plans, and new documentation for accurate details for integration, mitigation schedules for the IdAM and OOBM, sustainment of the service desk processes, and capabilities with the LNA. I also review and incorporate requirements from system specific security documentation, such as the DIACAP, Risk Management Framework, and Net worthiness checklists. I provide technical integration support to manage mitigation of technical and non-technical implementation issues during the GTC B2E BMC Remedy ITSM 8.X integration and sustainment capabilities with NETCOM NetOps capabilities. Perform risk identification and risk mitigation as part of change configuration management for a smooth integration, sustainment, implementation, and transition to operations and application of new automation capabilities. Provide input to the development and maintenance of FAQ and Fault Isolation Guides, and Lessons Learned supporting project implementation and sustainment of services. Support post GTC B2E BMC Remedy ITSM 8.X integration and transition for technical issues identified in the POA&M. Support the Program Management Engineering staff, Theater Signal Commands, and NEC's. Support tracking all technical issues identified on the project and organizational POA&M document until they are resolved. Assist stakeholders in defining management processes, roles, responsibilities, and flowcharts concerning all ITSM processes. Strong resource and task management skills as demonstrated by the ability to prioritize and manage several tasks simultaneously for myself and the team, I have excellent written and oral communication skills, with the ability to clearly and accurately convey information to people at all levels. Functional Area Analyst, Principal Intelligent Decisions - Fort Huachuca, AZ April 2013 to November 2014 Performed duties as a Functional Area Analyst, Principal, I have technical writing skills to prepare all final plans, reports, and general correspondence checked for clarity, conciseness, technical correctness, and approved format prior to delivery to the Government POC in electronic and hard copy format. I currently attend DoD Mobility T&E Working Integrated Product Team (WIPT) meetings, sub-working group meeting, and other meetings as required by the government. Liaising with UC Senior Engineer and UC Contract support to ensure that DoD Mobility T&E incorporates Unified Capabilities (UC) processes and concepts, where appropriate. Liaising with other JITC contractors to synchronize mobility efforts to: Develop a test capability, or improve the current capability to assess the following PM Mobility capability areas CAC Enablement, Enable Layer 2 VPN, Enable Session (application) VPN, Enable on-line Validation Checking. (Integrity Checking of Devices), Mobile virtual Desktop, Remote App Deployment, Enable UC Services VoIP, (DSN) and Video, mobile devices commercial and DoD network infrastructure, MDM, MAS, Back-office support system, Enterprise Common Services. Assess an agreed upon subset of Approved mobile apps as part of testing. Update the overall Enterprise Mobility T&E Strategy, Continue to develop and update overarching Analysis Structure consisting of EF and DSM in support of future OESIS determination for a POR, Contribute to developing and streamlining mobile applications testing and approval process for provisioning to DoD application storefronts, Participate in Mobility program WIPTs and the following T&E WIPT sub-Working Groups, Mobility Testbed/Lab sub-Working Group, Mobility UC/APL sub-Working Group. Leverage Test and efforts leading up to specific Test events for the following: Developing and refining Mobility capability functionality and performance test/use cases. Provide administrative, technical, and engineering support for the DoD Mobility to include the development of test plans, test execution, test reports, technical documentation, and engineering drawings as requested by the GPOC. The Test plans, test reports, technical documentation, and engineering drawings are reviewed internally before being provided to the JITC GPOC for review and approval. I have a telecommunications background that includes knowledge of cellular protocols, DoD Enterprise Services, Unified Capabilities Requirements (UCR), and Information Assurance (IA). I have working knowledge of the following DoD policies: DoD CIO Memo, Use of Commercial Mobile Devices (CMD) in the Department of Defense (DoD), , DoDI 8100.04, UCR 2013 draft , CJCSI 6212.01E/F , DoD Mobile Device Interim Policy, Mobility related Security Requirements Guides (SRG), DoD Directive 8100.02, Use of Commercial Wireless Devices, Services, and Technologies in the Department of Defense (DoD), Global Information Grid (GIG), DoDI 8420.01, Commercial Wireless Local-Area Network (WLAN) Devices, Systems, and Technologies. My DISA DoD Mobility Task is to integrate existing mobility strategies, and not develop new ones The JITC focus is more towards pilot and testing support, and towards developing Mobility component testing methodologies along with Enterprise Mobility Service T&E strategy development. I help conduct capability and limitation assessments of the anticipated testing without Operational Effectiveness, Suitability, Interoperability, and Security determination. I work with the following Mobility Working Groups  DISA, NSA, DoD CIO for this effort. The DoD Mobility Team leverages existing Service-led efforts to evolve into a Enterprise Solution. Our requirements are from the DoD CIO, NSA and the Services. In Phase 1 I focused on basic services, governance procedures for operations, and building the DoD-Commercial alliance that will be required to effectively and economically implement Mobility for the Department of Defense. In Phase 1 I helped develop the initial governance Processes. In Phase 2 I helped implement Lessons-Learned from Phase 1 and focus on scalability to ensure the DoD can offer Mobility as a Subscription Service. I participated in the Enterprise Mobility T&E Strategy and the Analysis Structure consisting of Evaluation Framework (EF) and Data Source Matrix (DSM). I also developed the Surveys in JDMT (Joint Interoperability Test Command Data Management) to be used by testers and administrators during their testing for feedback and analysis of the test cases they conducted. Senior Systems Data Engineer/Team Lead (Top Secret Clearance) NCI Information Systems, Inc - Fort Huachuca, AZ January 2012 to April 2013 Applies a comprehensive technical knowledge of computer theories, principles, and techniques, and a broad knowledge of automated switching, networks, terminal systems, C-E management policies, methods, and techniques. Resolves technical problems associated with documentation, interface, implementation, and operation, of complex telecommunications systems and networks. Prepares and or proposes plans and concepts to ensure continuity in transition of new and existing DOD systems. Ensures proper staff coordination and accomplishment of required actions and provides staff direction, overview, and evaluation throughout all phases of the projects. Maintains awareness of existing federal, DOD, DA, and USAISEC policy requirements for DOD systems against state-of-the-art technology in assigned area of responsibility. Extensively probes and analyzes requirement to disclose undefined issues and elements, while applying continuing efforts to establish concepts, theories, and programs to satisfy such issues and elements. Provides technical expertise to the formulation of plans in order to satisfy requirements. Provides technical planning and hardware engineering assistance to Information Management system users requiring communications/network support in the initial stages of project planning to assist them in the identification of system requirements. Coordinate the computer hardware specifications with network users and planning groups. Receive and reviews requests for network engineering and support. Directs the development of and reviews Hardware Engineering Installation and Implementation plans. Represents the command in conferences, committees, panels, or working groups with other government organizations and commercial companies. Serves as technical authority on the hardware development support and assigned systems. Provides technical advice to the Director, Lead System Engineer, and system users. Develops guidelines for formulation of policy and life cycle control of Information management hardware in such areas as operation concepts  functional analysis  interoperability analysis  requirement definition survivability/vulnerability  Q&M requirements. Coordinates classification and system acceptance tests and evaluation of program hardware. Prepares statements of work, procurement data packages, data item descriptions, and other material necessary to procure and manage contractor-implemented networks. Evaluates technical requirements and specifications and cost proposals to support infrastructure design for DOD systems. Senior Systems Data Engineer (Top Secret Clearance) NCI Information Systems, Inc - Fort Huachuca, AZ October 2009 to December 2012 Applies a comprehensive technical knowledge of computer theories, principles, and techniques, and a broad knowledge of automated switching networks, terminal systems, C-E management policies, methods, and techniques. Resolves technical problems associated with documentation, interface, implementation, and operation, of complex telecommunications systems and networks. Prepares and or proposes plans and concepts to ensure continuity in transition of new and existing DOD systems. Ensures proper staff coordination and accomplishment of required actions and provides staff direction, overview, and evaluation throughout all phases of the projects. Maintains awareness of existing federal, DOD, DA, and USAISEC policy requirements for DOD systems against state-of-the-art technology in assigned area of responsibility. Extensively probes and analyzes requirement to disclose undefined issues and elements, while applying continuing efforts to establish concepts, theories, and programs to satisfy such issues and elements. Provides technical expertise to the formulation of plans in order to satisfy requirements. Provides technical planning and hardware engineering assistance to Information Management system users requiring communications/network support in the initial stages of project planning to assist them in the identification of system requirements. Coordinates the computer hardware specifications with network users and planning groups. Receives and reviews requests for network engineering and support. Directs the development of and reviews Hardware Engineering Installation and Implementation plans. Represents the command in conferences, committees, panels, or working groups with other government organizations and commercial companies. Serves as technical authority on the hardware development support and assigned systems. Provides technical advice to the Director, Lead System Engineer, and system users. Develops guidelines for formulation of policy and life cycle control of Information management hardware in such areas as operation concepts  functional analysis  interoperability analysis  requirement definition survivability/vulnerability  Q&M requirements. Coordinates classification and system acceptance tests and evaluation of program hardware. Prepares statements of work, procurement data packages, data item descriptions, and other material necessary to procure and manage contractor-implemented networks. Evaluates technical requirements and specifications and cost proposals to support infrastructure design for DOD systems. Security Engineer (Top Secret Clearance) NCI Information Systems, Inc February 2009 to October 2009 Performed duties as an Information Assurance (IA) Security Engineer responsible for working with installation Information Infrastructure Modernization Program (I3MP) team to provide security engineering and certification and accreditation support for Army Information Systems (AIS). Performed site visits and worked with vendors throughout the I3MP process to ensure security requirements were being implemented. Reviewed and evaluated security related documents and provided feedback and recommendation. Chaired and participated in IA working groups and weekly teleconferences with vendors and site security representatives. Performed Security Engineering Assessments (SEA) on I3MP AIS to ensure compliancy of DOD, Army Information Assurance controls, and DISA Technical Implementation Guides (STIG). Performed vulnerability/risk assessments and analysis on I3MP AIS using security related tools. Prepared, reviewed, and coordinated the SEA report, site briefing, and vulnerability assessments reports. Provided timely and accurate responses to customer questions and concerns on I3MP related IA requirements to the project. Provided guidance and recommendation to site on the DoD Information Assurance and Certification and Accreditation Process (DIACAP). Sr Field Engineer Associate, Supervisor / Lead Tech General Dynamics Corporation 2000 to 2009 DISA Europe, Provide information systems engineering support for communications within the EUROPE, SWA AOR  Perform system design and development engineering functions to support the engineering and acquisition of information systems such as the following: Radio, fiber optics, cable plant, technical control, local and wide area networks, command and control, space communications, record data switched data/voice, video computer, office automation, automation security, network security, physical security systems, network and systems management and control, and video teleconferencing, Maintain CISCO VoSIP / WiFi /TDM Secure Voice/ Biometrics/ Fiber Core OSP/ Promina INET/ DRSN Network/ DSN Network/ Nortel SL100 switch operations. Progressed through projects of increasing scope and responsibility. Met or exceeded performance goals set by management, and was recognized for my performance by senior management. Responsible for the operation, monitoring, maintenance and troubleshooting of switch networks, providing both switched voice and data services to over 100,000 subscribers across three continents in the DISA Europe. Collect, process and analyze traffic measurement data, fault management data, billing data, and switch database tables from the switches. Preparing written and oral project status reports related system enhancements and expansion requirements, including targeted studies and analysis relating to network management. Develop, document, test and implement network restoration plans. Evaluate new network management and security software as it becomes available and provided quantitative and qualitative feedback to management. Advise system designers preparing specific system requirements for each installation, testing and validating new network software releases. Voice over IP configuration, including design, configuration of WAN technologies, such as T1 circuits, PPP and ISDN PRI/BRI. Additional experience in the areas of design, installation, configuration, troubleshooting, and monitoring of LAN services, including routing and switching, wireless, VPNs and firewalls. Advising supported agencies on Information Assurance requirements and processes and performing technical risk assessments of IT systems. Used OC equipment to test with field technicians and to successfully turn-up T1 & T3 circuits. Developed test plans and preventative maintenance programs. Instructed customers in the operation and maintenance of the system. Engineer General Dynamics Corporation 1999 to 2000 Provide technical expertise to customers, users or company personnel either at domestic or international field sites. Design systems, software and equipment layout. Develops, implements, installs, tests, modifies and/or operates complex equipment and systems. Developed test plans and preventative maintenance programs. Instructs customers in the operation and maintenance of the system. Serves as company liaison with customers on administrative and technical matters for assigned projects. Performed fault isolation and restoration of telecommunications services in the Network Operations Center. Installed, analyzed and monitored systems for alarms and took appropriate action to identify, isolate and resolve the problem. Responsible for analysis, design, development and testing of Unix shell scripts. Resolve customer provisioning problems, software, hardware issues and tracking progress through Remedy/Hummingbird/Clarify Action Request System. Responsible for the Installation Telephony and Data infrastructure equipment in CATV headends. Manage subcontractors who perform physical installation and audit quality of installation. Performed system diagnostics, including problem isolation within the RF and Network interfaces requiring spectrum and protocol analysis equipment. Have knowledge of LAN/WAN, PBX and T-1's. Use strong verbal and written communications skills to provide superior customer service to field technicians, inside and outside customers. Have a good working understanding of network equipment connectivity and the ability to be team oriented. Working knowledge of NORTEL DMS 500 telephone switch, Motorola DOCSIS routers, T-BERD testing equipment, SS7, Voice & data Gateways. Use my additional experience in field installation, repair and maintenance of voice circuits and data network elements. Worked on mobile GSM project that also provides secure voice and media streaming. JUNIPER transport nodes and CISCO VoSIP/VoIP networking platforms. Handling the testing, analysis, evaluation and repair of engineering, network, telecommunications or other technical equipment and/or systems. Builds, calibrates, adjusts, installs and maintains equipment, components, devices or systems. Analyzes results and implements procedures for problems. Prepare reports, documentation/specifications as required. Support US Army and DoD activities in designing and implementing secure converged voice and data network solutions  defining and refining security requirements. Computer and Telephony Systems Engineer General Dynamics Corporation 1995 to 1999 Designed, implemented and supported Telecommunications Networks and Information Systems using HP Open View, Windows NT 3.51/4.0, Unix shell scripting, HTML and Perl while on location at Rhein Main Air Force Base. Configured ATM and Ethernet network adapters Telecommunications and Computer Maintenance Technician ATM and Ethernet 1992 to 1995 diagnosed/ analyzed/ corrected network problems as required. Drafted systems documentation for users and developers, from installing operating systems on Unix and Windows NT Workstations, to all aspects of ATM and Ethernet network adapters. Performed Unix Operating System and Information System Management functions on various computer systems and networks, including Unix shell scripting. Supported day-to-day activities to include resolving customer provisioning problems software, hardware issues and tracking progress through Hummingbird/ Clarify Action Request System. Experience in the maintenance and troubleshooting of Aerial Copper Cable to include Thin and Thick Ethernet Networks also to include Fiber-Optic Communication Networks. Performed cable inspections and evaluations, preventative maintenance, installations, test termination and the loading of all equipment on the systems. Performed building surveys for the planning of Computer Systems installation. Worked both Inside & Outside Plant Networks. Installed Channel Banks and programmed/configured to customer specifications. Muxed DS1 to DS0 level delivering voice communications to customer. Also worked in Central Office doing both DS1 & DS3 cross connects, mapping, and termination. Utilized both 5ESS 2000 Switching System and the Nortel DMS 500, Siemens Rolm switch and Military KN4100 switch. Prepare reports, documentation/specifications as required. Support US Army and DoD activities in designing and implementing secure converged voice and data network solutions  defining and refining security requirements. Provide technical expertise to customers, users or company personnel either at domestic or international field sites. Developed test plans and preventative maintenance programs. Instructs customers in the operation and maintenance of the system.  American Telephone and Telegraph (AT&T), 1992 - 1995 Telecommunications and Computer Maintenance Technician (SECRET Security Clearance Held) Designed, installed, debugged and managed numerous Unix-based Information System Management platforms throughout Europe for the military. Tested systems compliance with military acceptance procedures. Diagnosed and isolated diverse software and hardware problems in the computer systems and peripherals. Designed, installed, maintained and coordinated complex networks consisting of numerous computing platforms and operating systems including Unix and Novell NetWare. Experienced installing network topologies such as Ethernet, FDDI and twisted pair. Prepared and conducted operations and security training for personnel. Worked extensively with all LEC's and at out Co-Locations throughout Europe (Germany). Prepare reports, documentation/specifications as required. Support US Army and DoD activities in designing and implementing secure converged voice and data network solutions  defining and refining security requirements. Telecommunications Systems Installation Technician United States Army 1990 to 1992 Provided PC, LAN and telecommunication system installation, debugging, support to military installations thru out Europe while holding SECRET Security Clearance. Provided field-engineering support for military LAN/WAN activities. Implemented network conversion using TCP/IP over a Frame Relay for the military. Conducted testing to optimize fault correction procedures. Trained, supervised and evaluated 10 military personnel. Have knowledge of LAN/WAN, PBX installation, T-BERD testing equipment. Developed test plans and preventative maintenance programs. Instructs customers in the operation and maintenance of the system. Education Bachelor's in Telecommunications Humble, TX September 1997 to May 2000 Bachelor of Science in Telecommunications Ashwood University - Humble, TX May 2000 technology Motorola University Skills ENGINEER (10+ years), INFORMATION ASSURANCE (10+ years), OSP (9 years), FEASIBILITY (Less than 1 year), ISP (Less than 1 year) Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: E4 Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES  • Network/Switch Transport  • (IA) Information Assurance  • ISP/OSP Engineer  • Feasibility and Risk Assessment Analysis