Senior Information Systems Security Manager Senior Information Systems <span class="hl">Security</span> Manager Highly Experienced Cyber Security Analyst W/ Security Clearance Panama City, FL * DIACAP/RMF accreditation, assessment, vulnerability management, auditing & revalidation for AFNORTH/PACOM Systems  * Transition DIACAP accreditation packages to the Risk Management Framework (RMF) accreditation standards  * Establishment, staffing, implementation, management and revalidation of system interconnections and IA Control waivers  * Artifact generation, topologies, SCAP Tool, STIG compliance, security test & evaluation (ST&E), planning and execution  * Developing Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&M), validates risk assessments, incident response and policy analysis  * Evaluating System Security, Disaster Recovery, & Configuration Management Plans to support accreditation requirements  * Submitting annual FISMA reporting via the Air Forces IPTL application and the DoD Cyberscope application  * Conducting/providing oversight on system/network hardening to ensure compliance with DoD/AF vulnerability alerts  * Conducting/providing oversight on annual accreditation assessments and revalidations  * Assisting in the AFNORTH system Configuration Management activities to provide Cyber Security assessments  * Security Manager for CSX world-wide network, led 30 Cyber personnel, managed $1M+ budget, responsible for ~150 devices  * Project Manager for small to complex projects, led multi-skilled team, new technology, met targets dates, on time/under budget  * Division Chief for AFNORTH Readiness Division, led 5 personnel team, Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Information Systems Security Manager CONR - Panama City, FL July 2012 to Present Serves as senior technology ( IT) specialist, Information Assurance Manager, and consultant responsible for management, oversight, and execution of Information Assurance policies, practices, procedures and standards for all command, control, communications, computer and intelligence (C4I) system within AFNORTH and Continental United States (CONUS) North American Aerospace Defense Command (NORAD) Region (CONR) in accordance with Department of Defense (DoD) and Air Force level instructions and regulations. As senior Information Assurance Management specialist, manages and ensures appropriate coordination of Certification and Accreditation processes as they pertain to AFNORTH/CONR systems. Assist system program management offices and system support offices from AFNORTH agencies, NORAD/USNORTHCOM, Air Combat Command (ACC), Air Education and Training Command (AETC), Air Force Communications Agency (AFCA), and Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA), along with other organizations to identify, create, coordinate and complete Information Assurance and Certification and Accreditation packages, procedures, scans and documentation for their respective systems. Analyzes requirements and establishes plans of action for improving IT systems/applications. Reviews and implements emerging DoD and Air Force Information Assurance guidance, policy and regulations. As Senior IT specialist responsible for Information Assurance, ensures emergent systems within AFNORTH/CONR scope of responsibility are properly entered into and coordinated through the DoD Air Force Information Assurance process. Chief Personnel Readiness CONR - Panama City, FL August 2004 to July 2012 As Readiness Branch and Division Chief, I was responsible for: 1) contingency planning, 2) force accountability, management and command reporting, 3) supervise assigned personnel, and 4) provide Computer Support to A1.  Contingency Planning. Responsible for the adherence and interpretation of Joint and Air Force readiness policies and procedures., JP 1-0, AFI 36-3802, AFI 10-401, AFI 10-402, AFI 10-218, AFI 10-216, etc. Coordinate with other 1 AF work centers to to create/update Readiness policies. Responsible to ensure compliance of DoD and Air Force COMSEC and OPSEC security policies and procedures. Responsible for the management, training, planning, and execution of the Manpower, Personnel and Services Readiness Center (MPSRC). 1AETF PERSCO Team, and DCRF/C2CRE PERSCO Teams. Responsible for the planning, creation and execution of NORAD-USNORTHCOM (N-NC), Air Force and Manpower, Personnel and Services contingency plans, annexes, Concept of Operation (CONOP) and deployed Reporting Instructions. Review, analyze and document contingency/crisis plans and their related planning documents to determine the adequacy of the personnel utilization guidance and the feasibility of the plan’s augmentation requirements. Responsible for the planning and personnel management and support of 1 AF PERSCO, JACCE team, ERP team, and DCRF/C2CRE policies, and operational documentation. Responsible for the creation and assessment for A1’s Joint Mission Essential Task Listing (JMETL) using the Joint DRRS and JTIMS applications. Functional Area Manger (FAM) for Personnel PERSCO UTCs. Provided training to A1 personnel to prepare them for N-NC exercises. Coordinate with 1 AF FAM’s on all GFMAP issues. Force Accountability, Management and Command Reporting. Responsible for providing total force accountability, personnel management and command reporting for all assigned and attached Joint, Air Force and civilian deployed personnel supporting N-NC, AFNORTH and Air Force contingencies and exercises. Responsible to ensure all assigned/attached deployed personnel to ensure personnel arrive on time and arrive safely. In addition, request for force replacement actions happen quickly and personnel arrive as requested by the deployed Commander. Respond to and report on all Casualties. Expert communications skills; have the ability speak and write concisely and comfortable briefing to large groups of people.   Supervise Assigned Personnel. Supervise/manage five (5) Manpower, Services and Personnel. Responsible for their annual performance reports, feedbacks, recognition submission, hiring/termination of employees, and ensure compliance of HR/EEO policies and procedures. Computer Support. Expertly use DCAPES to modify requirement line level detail, create/extract reports and gain/depart deployed personnel. Uses DCAPES, SIPRNET, and RELCAN command and control systems to gather and provide information to 1 AF leadership. Created MS Access Databases and Excel spreadsheets to assist in the accountability and reporting of deployed personnel. A1 OPR for the administration of the DRRS and JTIMS applications, inventory management and GCCS user accounts. Assisted A1 leadership to resolve computer/application problems. Adjunct Professor, Computers Science, and Databases Troy University - Troy, AL 2006 to October 2010 Adjunct Computer Professor teaching "Introduction to Databases" and "Systems Analysis and Design" courses. Responsible for the creation and administration of course curriculum through the Troy State BlackBoard education application. Utilize Microsoft Access for the "Introduction to Databases" course. Respond to students questions and work with them to ensure they understand course curriculum. Adjunct Professor, Computer Security, Microsoft Applications, Online Course Designer GulfCoast State University - Panama City, FL August 2005 to October 2010 Adjunct Computer Professor at Gulf Coast Community College, Panama City FL. Instructed both College level and dual enrolled students in the Franklin and Liberty County High Schools. Specifically, taught A+ Computer Hardware and Software, Networking (basic and advanced), Computer and Network Security, and Microsoft Office Application courses.     A+ Computer Hardware and Software Courses. Utilizing hands-on labs, provided instruction on computer theory and how to: install and configure Microsoft and Red Hat Linux operating systems, repair operating system and hardware problems, connect the PC to the a network and provided A+ certification preparation exams to prepare the students to take the A+ COMPTIA certification exam.    Basic and Advanced Networking Courses. Utilizing hands-on labs consisting of Computers, Cisco VPN routers, Windows 2003 Server and Red Hat Linux software, provided instruction on how network theory, how to setup networks using the Windows and Red Hat server software, provided information on how to setup configure and manage Cisco Routers, connect the computers to the network through the Cisco router, connect computer to the network using both static and dynamic IPs, setup VLANs to create separate networks. Provided Network+ certification preparation exams to prepare the students to take the Network+ COMPTIA certification exam.    Computer and Network Security Courses. Utilizing hands-on labs and hacking software, provided instructions on security theory, case studies and hands-on use of security software to identity and resolve computer problems.     Microsoft Office Application. Provided instruction on how to use MS Office 2003 and Project Software.  Responsible for the creation of state approved curriculum for use for dual-enrolled High School students who take College credit courses. Specifically I have designed and taught A+ hardware, software, and certification preparation courses, Introduction to Computer and Network Security courses. I have advanced experiencing using both the Blackboard and Angel education applications. Security Project Manager/Network & HIPPA Security Blue Cross Blue Shield - Jacksonville, FL February 2004 to May 2005 Gulf Coast Community College  Panama City, FL United States 08/2005 - 01/2009  Hours per week: 15  Adjunct Computer Professor    Adjunct Computer Professor at Gulf Coast Community College, Panama City FL. Instructed both College level and dual enrolled students in the Franklin and Liberty County High Schools. Specifically, taught A+ Computer Hardware and Software, Networking (basic and advanced), Computer and Network Security, and Microsoft Office Application courses.     A+ Computer Hardware and Software Courses. Utilizing hands-on labs, provided instruction on computer theory and how to: install and configure Microsoft and Red Hat Linux operating systems, repair operating system and hardware problems, connect the PC to the a network and provided A+ certification preparation exams to prepare the students to take the A+ COMPTIA certification exam.    Basic and Advanced Networking Courses. Utilizing hands-on labs consisting of Computers, Cisco VPN routers, Windows 2003 Server and Red Hat Linux software, provided instruction on how network theory, how to setup networks using the Windows and Red Hat server software, provided information on how to setup configure and manage Cisco Routers, connect the computers to the network through the Cisco router, connect computer to the network using both static and dynamic IPs, setup VLANs to create separate networks. Provided Network+ certification preparation exams to prepare the students to take the Network+ COMPTIA certification exam.    Computer and Network Security Courses. Utilizing hands-on labs and hacking software, provided instructions on security theory, case studies and hands-on use of security software to identity and resolve computer problems.     Microsoft Office Application. Provided instruction on how to use MS Office 2003 and Project Software.  Responsible for the creation of state approved curriculum for use for dual-enrolled High School students who take College credit courses. Specifically I have designed and taught A+ hardware, software, and certification preparation courses, Introduction to Computer and Network Security courses. I have advanced experiencing using both the Blackboard and Angel education applications.    Air Force Northern Command  Tyndall AFB, FL United States 08/2004 - 10/2008  Salary: 65,000.00 USD Per Year  Hours per week: 40  Chief, Readiness     As Readiness Branch and Division Chief, I was responsible for: 1) contingency planning, 2) force accountability, management and command reporting, 3) supervise assigned personnel, and 4) provide Computer Support to A1.    Contingency Planning. Responsible for the adherence and interpretation of Joint and Air Force readiness policies and procedures., JP 1-0, AFI 36-3802, AFI 10-401, AFI 10-402, AFI 10-218, AFI 10-216, etc. Coordinate with other 1 AF work centers to to create/update Readiness policies. Responsible to ensure compliance of DoD and Air Force COMSEC and OPSEC security policies and procedures. Responsible for the management, training, planning, and execution of the Manpower, Personnel and Services Readiness Center (MPSRC). 1AETF PERSCO Team, and DCRF/C2CRE PERSCO Teams. Responsible for the planning, creation and execution of NORAD-USNORTHCOM (N-NC), Air Force and Manpower, Personnel and Services contingency plans, annexes , Concept of Operation (CONOP) and deployed Reporting Instructions. Review, analyze and document contingency/crisis plans and their related planning documents to determine the adequacy of the personnel utilization guidance and the feasibility of the plan’s augmentation requirements. Responsible for the planning and personnel management and support of 1 AF PERSCO, JACCE team, ERP team, and DCRF/C2CRE policies, and operational documentation. Responsible for the creation and assessment for A1’s Joint Mission Essential Task Listing (JMETL) using the Joint DRRS and JTIMS applications. Functional Area Manger (FAM) for Personnel PERSCO UTCs. Provided training to A1 personnel to prepare them for N-NC exercises. Coordinate with 1 AF FAM’s on all GFMAP issues.    Force Accountability, Management and Command Reporting. Responsible for providing total force accountability, personnel management and command reporting for all assigned and attached Joint, Air Force and civilian deployed personnel supporting N-NC, AFNORTH and Air Force contingencies and exercises. Responsible to ensure all assigned/attached deployed personnel to ensure personnel arrive on time and arrive safely. In addition, request for force replacement actions happen quickly and personnel arrive as requested by the deployed Commander. Respond to and report on all Casualties. Expert communications skills; have the ability speak and write concisely and comfortable briefing to large groups of people.     Supervise Assigned Personnel. Supervise/manage thirty (30) people. Responsible for their annual performance reports, feedbacks, recognition submission, hiring/termination of employees, and ensure compliance of HR/EEO policies and procedures.    Computer Support. Expertly use DCAPES to modify requirement line level detail, create/extract reports and gain/depart deployed personnel. Uses DCAPES, SIPRNET, and RELCAN command and control systems to gather and provide information to 1 AF leadership. Created MS Access Databases and Excel spreadsheets to assist in the accountability and reporting of deployed personnel. A1 OPR for the administration of the DRRS and JTIMS applications, inventory management and GCCS user accounts. Assisted A1 leadership to resolve computer/application problems.     Blue Cross Blue Shield (BCBS)  Jacksonville, FL United States 01/2003 - 06/2004  Salary: 80,000.00 USD Per Year  Hours per week: 40  Network Security/HIPPA  Project Manager responsible for the design and implementation for the organization’s HIPPA application. This application analyzed the BCBS network to identify potential HIPPA documents erroneously loaded into public drives and folders. Lead a team of 5 people from different BCBS organizations to develop and implement this application. Also performed Network Administrator duties responding to customer request for user accounts, password resets and computer permissions requests. Worked various BCBS investigations responding to employee misuse of company equipment and network access. Professor, Computer and Networking Remington College - Jacksonville, FL October 2003 to June 2004 Adjunct Professor responsible for the curriculum design, course development and course instruction for A+ hardware, network security and management and software and for Microsoft Office application courses.    A+ Computer Hardware and Software Courses. Utilizing hands-on labs, provided instruction on computer theory and how to: install and configure Microsoft and Red Hat Linux operating systems, repair operating system and hardware problems, connect the PC to the a network and provided A+ certification preparation exams to prepare the students to take the A+ COMPTIA certification exam.    Basic and Advanced Networking Courses. Utilizing hands-on labs consisting of Computers, Cisco VPN routers, Windows 2003 Server and Red Hat Linux software, provided instruction on how network theory, how to setup networks using the Windows and Red Hat server software, provided information on how to setup configure and manage Cisco Routers, connect the computers to the network through the Cisco router, connect computer to the network using both static and dynamic IPs, setup VLANs to create separate networks. Provided Network+ certification preparation exams to prepare the students to take the Network+ COMPTIA certification exam.    Computer and Network Security Courses. Utilizing hands-on labs and hacking software, provided instructions on security theory, case studies and hands-on use of security software to identity and resolve computer problems.     Microsoft Office Application. Provided instruction on how to use MS Office 2003 and Project Software. Manager IT Security CSX - Jacksonville, FL September 1997 to December 2002 Responsible for the security/compliance management team of 30 people and responsible for safeguarding a worldwide corporation valued at approximately $10B. I anticipated, identified, and corrected issues and problems impacting the corporation’s operational integrity. I created and updated corporate Security policies and procedures. I was instrumental in providing safe, secure, and less costly remote connectivity into the CSX network. My team was responsible for over 150 Security devices (i.e., Firewalls, Content Switches, Content Engines, wired and wireless Intrusion Detection Systems, and Domain Name Systems, etc) to provide a highly available and security network. I planned, created, administered, and executed an Incident Response Team and situation response plans and procedures. I worked with CSX legal staff to develop legal documents to send to companies sending suspicious network traffic. I worked with the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and Florida law agencies related to Computer crimes. I directly supervised and managed 30 personnel. I was responsible for annual performance reports, hiring and termination actions, time keep and managed a organizational budget of approximately $1M.I ensured all employees following Federal, Local, and corporate HR policies and procedures. I was responsible for the creating and execution of CSX Security disaster recovery plans. This includes testing and implementation scripts to ensure the CSX network is recovered quickly and securely in order to reconstituted the corporation and its business goals. My achievements included: Implementation of a Virtual Private Network (VPN) LAN-to-LAN infrastructure to reduce cost and provide a secure and fast connection to remote networks--saved CSX over $500M in 2002, Creation of a highly recognized Security awareness program, Developed cyber attack escalation procedures, Implemented an Enterprise Identity Management (e.g., Web Single Sign On, Password Synchronization, new hire/fire automation, etc.), deployed wireless Intrusion Detection Systems, and Developed, implemented and managed corporate Safety programs. Created and conducted a highly recognized Security Awareness training program. Deputy PSM/Information Security Florida Air National Guard - Jacksonville, FL July 1995 to August 2002 Deputy PSM for the 125th MPF and was INFOSEC OPR for the 125th Communications Squadron. Rsponsible for setup, configuration and administration of PC3 and MILMOD Personnel systems. Specifically, I was responsible for: 1) Printing reports and disseminates to the proper work centers, 2) trouble shooting and resolving PC3 and MILMOD system problems, 3) providing training to MPF personnel on the use of MILMOD, and 4) assist the PSM in identification and resolution of Personnel Transaction problems. I was part of the MPF’s PERSCO Team and participated in various exercises. I assisted the MPF’s Personnel Readiness Function (PRF) in the installation of MANPER-B and other Readiness issues. I was responsible for the protection and security of the Florida Air National Guard public and classified network. Ensure all policies and procedures are followed. I assisted in the management of the Wing’s Information Security (INFOSEC) and Communications Security (COMSEC) programs. I monitored network and computer usage to detect suspicious activity and was responsible for User account administration and management the organization’s firewall and DNS server. I provided Help Desk support to Wing’s personnel. I retired from the Florida Air National Guard in Aug 2002. Senior Network Architect and Software Engineer BBN Technologies - Norfolk, VA June 1996 to October 1997 Joint Training Analyst and Simulation Center, Suffolk, VA  Senior UNIX Systems Administrator/Software Engineer Software and Hardware Engineer MRJ Technologies - Sterling, VA June 1995 to July 1997 National Security Agency, Ft. Meade, MD  Software and Hardware Engineer NCOIC Personnel Readiness Team HQ ACC Langley AFB Virginia - Langley AFB, VA October 1992 to April 1995 NCOIC Personnel Readiness Systems HQ USAF/DPXC Pentagon DC December 1989 to October 1992 NCOIC Personnel Command and Control Systems Wartime Contingency Systems Analyst AF Wartime Manpower/Personnel Readiness Team Ft Ritchie Maryland - Fort Ritchie, MD March 1985 to December 1989 NCOIC HQ TAC Personnel Systems Manager HQ TAC/DPX Langley AFB Virginia - Langley AFB, VA November 1981 to March 1985 Personnel Systems Manager 56 Combat Support Group MacDill AFB Florida - MacDill AFB, FL March 1980 to November 1981 Bandsman, Records Clerk, Customer Service, General's Aid 2583 Air Base Group Robins AFB Georgia - Robins AFB, GA March 1978 to March 1980 Education Master's Skills Nist Military Service Branch: USAF Service Country: United States Rank: Enlisted November 1976 to August 2002 Retired Certifications/Licenses CISSP April 2018 Security+ March 2018