IT Auditor/ Information Security Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> Auditor/ Information <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Auditor/ Information Security Analyst - Hennice Inc Brandywine, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Auditor/ Information Security Analyst Hennice Inc - Glenarden, MD March 2016 to Present • Perform and Test IT General Controls and Business Process Application controls using FISCAM and FISMA framework • Coordinate with IT department and external auditors during SOX IT testing.  • Evaluate compliance with corporate security policies from planning phase to completion using COSO, SOX, OMB Circular A-123, SSAE 18, FISCAM Frameworks in performing audit.  • Evaluate the adequacy and effectiveness of the client's internal controls using a risk-based methodology developed from professional auditing standards, such as PCI DSS, HIPAA and in accordance to NIST guidelines.  • Perform and document audit activities in accordance with professional standards based on frameworks such as COBIT, ITGC, PCI, HIPAA and SOX.  • Experience performing audit with IT General Controls (ITGC) such as Access Control, Change Management, IT Operations, Disaster Recovery and Platform Reviews (Windows and UNIX OS).  • Conduct IT audit fieldwork; walkthrough and detailed testing of controls.  • Accurately documented and prepared detailed reports of audit findings.  • Applying appropriates information control for Federal Information Security based on NIST 800-37 rev1, SP 800-53 rev4, NIST 800-53A, FIPS 199 and FIPS 200.  • Audit of file logs, active directory, activity summary, group policy activity summary, inactive users, event log collection, role matching to access, etc.  • Perform vulnerability assessment on Hennice internal, internet-facing and vendor applications and network using IBM Appscan and Tenable.io based on company policies. Information Security Analyst, Complete Computer Technology October 2015 to February 2016 Akure, Nigeria.  • Performed web application filtering to audit employees on the kind of sites visited, if bandwidths are used based on acceptable use policy and data loss prevention by checking the kind of files being sent out of the network.  • Exploration, testing and running full scans on application to detect vulnerabilities • Drafting and updating the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU), and Interconnection Security Agreements (ISA).  • Build rapport and elicit problem details from help desk customers.  • Apply diagnostic utilities to aid in troubleshooting.  • Scan systems against intrusions, malware and viruses • Manually check and test codes for vulnerabilities. Education B.Technology Ladoke Akintola University of Technology 2014 Skills SAP, EXCEL, MICROSOFT WORD, ACL Additional Information Seun is a talented and result-driven IT Auditor & Information Security professional with versatile, cross-platform experience in performing audit readiness, project reviews and continuous risk assessment in all stages of audits including planning, study, evaluation and testing of controls, reporting and follow-up. She has a combined experience in Information Security using the risk management framework (RMF), access management, data loss prevention and vulnerability management. Seun encourages security best practices in information systems and applications.    SKILLS  SAP, IDEA, Microsoft word, EXCEL, ACL, and Windows.