Sr Systems Admin Sr Systems Admin Sr Systems Admin - ProMax Unlimited Davenport, IA Work Experience Sr Systems Admin ProMax Unlimited - Bettendorf, IA November 2018 to April 2019 Bettendorf, IA)  • Powershell scripting. Automate IIS functions, certificate renewals, batch automation.  • Windows AD maintenance, configuration, administration.  • Office 365 administration.  • Management of Citrix XEN VM environment. Creating, moving, and ensuring peak performance of VM environment.  • Ring Central / Phone administration. Handled migration from Zultys to Ring Central. Involved batch scripting config changes necessary to migrate. Phone reprogramming, etc.  • Data Center move. Was heavily involved in our data center move from Davenport location to a co-lo. This involved moving SAN's, switches, networks, and numerous pieces of equipment and reconfiguration of that infrastructure.  • Familiar with PRTG monitoring and compliance.  • Serve in on call capacity once every 4 weeks. Technical Lead - Corporate Computer Security and Authentication Services Deere & Company - Moline, IL June 2013 to October 2018 Corporate IT), One John Deere Place, Moline, IL 61265 6/2013 - 10/2018  Technical Lead - Corporate Computer Security and Authentication Services (Moline, IL)  • Experience Implementing OKTA, setting up OKTA agents, OKTA IWA, and integration of applications (OIDC & SAML 2.0). I have a working knowledge of Open ID Connect and SAML 2.0.  • Responsible for re-designing, building, and implementing our corporate enterprise SiteMinder web authentication infrastructure which included budgeting, ordering, building numerous RedHat Linux servers and Windows servers (over 40 servers), API programming, testing and implementing the system across the enterprise.  • Wrote API based software that reverse engineered our version 6 policy store and temporarily stored that data in an MSSQL database I designed so that it could later be ported and re-constructed in the version 12.52 system again using CA API's.  • Designed & implemented our SiteMinder SAML infrastructure from the ground up and worked with internal customers to onboard new SAML applications. Troubleshooting as required.  • Implementation of my designed architecture achieved a 99.99% uptime metric for enterprise web and SSO authentication. At peak times the system successfully and reliably performs over 100 million authentication and authorization transactions per day.  • Experience evaluating internal compliance audits and remediating risk.    • Partnership with corporate, cross functional teams (IPN Web Services, Server Services, DNS, Firewall, Network, etc), other non-corporate Deere units that host their own applications, and third party suppliers to provide SSO consulting, implementation, & troubleshooting expertise when and where applicable.  • Assist with WebSphere & Apache issues when needed.  • Experience with ITIL and problem management. 3Y5L methodology.  • Design, coordinate, perform and validate failover and redundancy testing.  • Write software utilities as required to perform and automate our maintenance and support functions. Sr Field Service Eng - Engine Diagnostics Team John Deere Power Systems - Waterloo, IA June 2011 to June 2013 Waterloo, IA)    • Lead Service ADVISOR(TM) operational activities, testing, and test development for JDPS diagnostics.  • Developed an extensive partnership with corporate and division customer support teams to gather and define requirements, evaluate solutions and implement new service tool procedures.  • Create new readings, trim configs, and manage opCode releases.  • Fully responsible for the testing of Service Advisor software releases and ensuring quality.  • Write software utilities as required to support our customers. I wrote vbs/wsh based automation routines to handle the addition of 6 new translated languages and also wrote custom installer packages to support our field engineers on equipment currently in the "field test" stage.  • Became familiar with the CAN protocol and worked directly with Vector corporation to code a hardware based ECU simulator which increased efficiencies by eliminating the need to physically connect to numerous different software level ECU's for testing. Infrastructure Analyst III - Corporate Computer Security Deere & Company - Moline, IL August 2007 to June 2011 Moline, IL)    • Assigned as Tech Lead/Project Manager on the Enterprise agent upgrade project. Wrote 10 different procedure docs detailing agent upgrade on multiple OS's and Web Server combinations. Inventoried over 1500 agents, coordinated installs with Deere business partners, and 3rd party hosts. Successfully completed project over a period of 1.5 years.  • Assigned as Tech Lead/Project Manager on upcoming Enterprise R12 upgrade. Initial requirements gathered and project plan started but accepted a new position prior to completion  • Maintain Microsoft Access based metric reporting routine consisting of a complex, mass data import from 16 different servers, 32 different queries, and 10 different macros.  • Wrote automation scripts where possible and maintained Perl maintenance scripts (logging, and data consolidation).  • Be the end of the line, technical expert on our Enterprise SiteMinder & Infrastructure Support. 16 Policy Servers, 4 LDAP policy stores, 3 blockade devices, and the registration.deere.com Web application & JVM.  • Troubleshoot complex back-end user access & sync issues.  • Assist developers with integrating the Siteminder web agent with their applications.  • Coordinate all 3rd party setups including DNS, Firewall and agent installation. IT Manager - Large Dealer Services John Deere Information Systems - East Moline, IL March 2006 to August 2007 Moline, IL)    • Visited dealership quarterly to discuss issues, problems, and areas in need of improvement.  • Networked all 14 locations together and configured them for a hosted solution that JDIS offered.  • Participated in management discussions about IT needs, budget, and made recommendations.  • Implemented asset tracking and wrote a custom reporting program (ASP/MSSQL) that allowed management to view asset inventory which was updated every 4 hours.  • Handled coordination of all server, router, and workstation maintenance & upgrades through JDIS central office and personnel. Often I would perform the work myself if onsite.  • Gained valuable experience about how a dealership runs. I worked the parts counter for one week and also worked in the service department for one week. IT Analyst, Customer Acquisition / HR Team, Deere & Company Admin Center Deere & Company - Moline, IL March 2002 to March 2006 Corporate IT), 1 John Deere Place, Moline, IL 61265 3/2002 - 3/2006  IT Analyst, Customer Acquisition / HR Team, Deere & Company Admin Center (Moline, IL)    • Acted as Tech Lead on new projects (beginning 10.OCT.2003). This consisted of communicating requirements and managing developers to make sure the requirements of the applications were met.  • Took over Tier 2 application code support for total of 16 applications. Bullets below outline my involvement and responsibilities for a number of those apps.  • JAVA - Handled code support for applications that used Servlet and JSP design to access relational databases and managed code releases and deployments.  • Wrote an enterprise VB based middleware piece to integrate Active Directory / LDAP profile information with a Linux based, purchased PHP application (JDMINDSHARE). The middleware managed a "push" relationship where data from employee's AD accounts was pushed to corresponding fields in the PHP application's MySQL database.  • Wrote the Data feeds for our external JDJOBS application hosted by a third party company.  • Handled all support and configuration (code changes, Database upgrades/changes) for internally developed ASP applications used for Human Resource practices and functions. Infrastructure Analyst, Web Application Team, Deere & Company Admin Center Deere & Company - Moline, IL June 2000 to March 2002 Corporate IT), 1 John Deere Place, Moline, IL 61265 6/2000 - 3/2002  Infrastructure Analyst, Web Application Team, Deere & Company Admin Center (Moline, IL)    • Tier 3 support for over 200 web applications running in a mixed environment comprised of the following: IIS on NT4 and Windows 2000 | Netscape Web Servers on NT4, 2000, & Solaris | Servlet Exec on NT4.  • Wrote applications consisting of PERL scripts that inventoried our UNIX environment to Database which was queried and served up via ASP reports that allowed our team to dynamically track applications and server performance.  • Maintained enterprise backup schema for our web environment as a whole.  • Evaluated technology releases (New Versions of WebSphere, Solaris). Education B.A. University of Iowa 1996 Skills ASP, Javascript, MySQL, PHP, VBScript (10+ years), Perl (10+ years), Linux (10+ years), Windows Server 2008 - 2012 (5 years), IIS (10+ years), Apache Web Server (6 years), MSSQL (4 years), Siteminder (10+ years), Okta (1 year) Assessments Project Management Skills: Budgeting — Highly Proficient April 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to manage project budgets by appropriately allocating and monitoring financial resources. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/xezlm2xgkpbm1fou Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Highly Proficient April 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/uyrs-vqojvr0x5fe Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information SKILL SET:    Platforms - SiteMinder Admin (SME/Expert Level), OKTA Admin, OIDC, SAML 2.0, Windows 2008/2012/2016 Server, IIS7/IIS8 (SME Expert Level) Administration, Apache 2.x.x, Solaris 9 & 10 Admin, Linux (RedHat & AS) Admin, WebSphere Admin    Networking - TCP/IP, Sub-netting, DNS, Proxy, HTTP tracing (fiddler), Firewall, & F5 BigIP Configurations.    Programming - Expert Skill: MSSQL, MySQL, Access, VB, ASP, VBS/WSH, WISE, PERL, Powershell, PHP  Intermediate Skill: JAVA