Information Security Project Manager Information <span class="hl">Security</span> Project Manager Project Manager - MBA, PMP, CSM w/ Public Trust (High) Washington, DC SUMMARY OF QUALIFICATIONS    • Ability to present technology strategy to all levels of company management.  • Proven ability providing executive support, business strategy and program management.  • Knowledgeable of cybersecurity best practices, capabilities, frameworks and standards.  • Exceptional knowledge of government enterprise IT operations and procedures.  • Strong financial analysis, public policy, project and strategic management skills Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Information Security Project Manager Various State, Local and Federal Government Agencies - Washington, DC June 2019 to Present Develops and updates security-related documentation to reflect the security posture of the government IT system, as directed by the government agency managers. Assists government customers in reviewing or modifying security documentation for quality and accuracy of processes. Monitors and controls changes to information systems and assesses the security impact of those changes. Supports government leads on enterprise security support, risk and vulnerability management (CAPs and POA&M) and audit finding remediation. Assists government managers with internal Cyber Awareness, Training and Outreach efforts. Manages project efforts to mature cybersecurity operations for government agencies.    • Assists the CISO with development of security operations, threat monitoring, vulnerability management, intrusion detection/prevention, data loss prevention, incident response, etc.  • Assists the CISO on efforts to enhance security operations through system security plans updates, policy/procedure development, organizational change management and alignment to network infrastructure   • Develops, updates, and reviews security authorization and accreditation documentation (A&A) to ensure consistency with NIST 800-53 and FISMA laws, NIST Risk Management and Cybersecurity Frameworks (800-SPs), CISA and OMB Directives.  • Manages cybersecurity project portfolio on efforts related to Trusted Internet Connections, Network Access Control, SOC Implementation, Continuous Diagnostic Monitoring (CDM), Risk Profiles (Current and Target), and High Value Assets, etc.  Senior PMO Project Manager Citizant - Executive Office Immigration Review (EOIR) - Falls Church, VA July 2018 to April 2019 Executive Office Immigration Review (EOIR). Department of Justice (DOJ) Office of Information Technology. Develops project related documents, project plans, and requirements; develops technical documents, such as Statements of Works, Standard Operating Procedures and recommends and implements changes to improve daily operations and procedures; develops strategies to recommend new projects and documented tasks; leverages current agency IT tools and resources to enhance operations and collaboration; lead efforts across division to increase collaboration across federal government agency. Provides project management and business analyst support for optimal decision making and strategic alignment of agency objectives. Activities include managing schedule, gathering application, staging, testing and requirements for federal facilities and coordination of third-party vendors activities.    • Manages infrastructure projects that enhance the IT operational posture of the U.S. Immigration Courts, consisting of over 60 locations nationally and hundreds of end users; manages the Digital Audio Recording (DAR) Upgrade Project, an initiative leading to the replacement of 400 courtroom audio/voice recording systems; manages the Electronic Digital Docket System (EDDS) Project that deploys 300 digital signage units to federal courthouses. Project Manager NOW Technologies (NTS) - Largo, MD May 2017 to February 2018 Prince George's County Government. Office of Information Technology (PG-OIT), Enterprise Architecture Division. Present Network Infrastructure Services Technical Project Manager Develops project related documents, project plans, and requirements; develops technical documents, such as Statements of Works, Standard Operating Procedures and Site Build Sheets; recommends and implements changes to improve daily operations and procedures; develop strategies to recommend new projects and documented tasks; leverages current agency IT tools and resources to enhance operations and collaboration; leads efforts across division to increase collaboration across Enterprise Architecture with the creation of Network Appliance User Groups; motivates, encourages and recommends cross-training of agency staff on network appliances that have multi-use business cases. Provides project management and business analyst support to Network Appliance Staging and Enhancements, Infrastructure Technology Support, and Municipal Fiber Projects.    • Manages staging projects that enhance the IT operational posture of the county government. Implements Network Access Control (ForeScout CounterACT) in Phases II and III across 18,000 network endpoints; revises agencies information security policies (Acceptable Use and Access Control Standards) to align with county Administrative Procedure 119; recommends further enhancement projects for Splunk (log mining and aggregation), Riverbed (Net Flow traffic), SolarWinds (network monitoring), etc.  • Manages projects network infrastructure installations and upgrade projects, such as the FY18 Technology Refresh for core network components. Sites include Inglewood III, Kent Police HQ, RMS Building, among other county facilities.    • Manages the FY18 PC Refresh Project (Phase I), an initiative leading to the replacement of 2,000 laptop and desktop computers across all county government agencies. Activities include developing project chart, schedule and other key artifacts that lead to successful implementation and completion.    • Manages fiber build projects that expand the footprint of the Inter-County Broadband Network (ICBN); coordinates activities with the INET and consortium members, such as the University of Maryland University College. IT Project Manager/Business Analyst Federal Working Group (FWG) - Washington, DC March 2016 to March 2017 Provides project management and program analytical support to Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, Deputy Comptroller for Infrastructure and Operations (DCIO), Management and Controls (M&C) and Telecommunications, Messaging and Operations (TMO) directorates. Possess strong understanding of federal government IT governance, culture and organization. Strong experience working in MS Project Server and SharePoint environments for large IT organizations.    Portfolio Management:  • Supports DCIO Program Management Office (PMO) through the entire project life cycle; including developing charters, plans, schedules, resource estimates, cost plans/budgets, ; staffing plans, change and release management efforts, encourages support for director policies; and manage project and portfolio documentation on SharePoint and MS Project sites.    • Identifies and leads efforts to improve business processes, business outputs and timelines; develops and manages capacity planning efforts (resource allocation estimates versus actuals) for directorate; provides analytical data (using various internal tools) to support on-going trend, root cause analysis, performance tracking, and quantitative project metrics.    Technical Project Management:  • Provides subject matter expertise, with regards to unified communications, to aide in the shaping of projects and business requirements for mobility (Citrix/VPN), wireless/mobile device management (MDM), unified communications (Cisco/Avaya/Skype), WAN-LAN/VoIP, Video/VTC delivery. Requires interaction with upper-level IT management, leads, architects, and engineers to ensure processes are efficient, sustainable, repeatable, and predictable. Understands and documents business requirements as requested.    • Provides project management support to directorate for ongoing level of effort activities and milestone projects. Liaises with both internal stakeholders and customers, and external channel partners and suppliers to discuss and create business and technical requirements. Project Manager (PS Wireless Broadband) ENGILITY - Washington, DC November 2014 to August 2015 Support the Broadband Technologies Opportunities Program (BTOP) for the state of New Jersey (JerseyNet - Early Builder Project) in developing an interoperable public safety wireless broadband (4G/LTE/WiFi/DAS/Microwave) network dedicated for first responders. Acquires strong understanding of Systems Engineering Lifecycle for wireless telecommunications network deployments: Planning, Design Review, Sourcing; Staging and Production, Solutions and Implementation, Testing, Training, Operations and Maintenance and Transition    Program Management (Acting Program Manager):  • Participates in contract modification process for funding requisitions and purchase orders (POs); participates in recruiting process for Radio Frequency (RF) engineering support.    • Serves as liaison between finance and contracting departments and corresponding client representatives to ensure smooth project operations.    • Acquires strong knowledge of business and operational processes, including contracting, subcontracting, vendor management (negotiations, signing, implementation, payments).    • Acquires in depth background of budgetary development, burden rate for subsequent, contracting vehicles, financials analysis and solvency, and compliance and ROI determination    Project Management Organization:  • Participates in development of Project Management work plans and key milestone deliverables for JerseyNet: Communications Plan, Quality Plan, Risk Management Plan, Site Location Plan, Technical Documentation Plan, Change Order Process and Management Plan, System/Network Design Plan, Implementation and Testing Plan, Transition Plan, Disaster Recovery and Special Operations Plan, Training Plan; further revises plans as a key deliverable and project closeout    • Maintains and manages Integrated Master Schedule (IMS) for JerseyNet for Project Executive, Team Leads and designated State of New Jersey stakeholders;    • Communicates across project leads/project partners to acquire strong understanding of business processes/ work flows for project; Project Manager (Broadband Technology) Office of the Chief Technology Officer (OCTO) - Washington, DC December 2011 to September 2014 Digital Inclusion Initiative (Connect.DC) Broadband Coordinator (Project Manager) Provides project management consulting, support and assistance to District agencies and directs District-wide technology service initiatives within assigned focus area of digital inclusion. Plans, organizes, analyzes, evaluates, and controls projects assigned to incumbent through application of project management principles, practices, and techniques. Coordinates the District's initiative to promote digital inclusion across the city and lead the effort by advocating strategies to expand access to technology in traditionally underserved communities within the District of Columbia.    • Develops business case for digital inclusion centers plan, an inter-agency partnership to expand broadband usage at city's community and recreational centers with refurbished government computers and laptops.    • Conducts test case/quality assurance to support development of crowd-sourcing content management application for community-based organizations and agency partners.    • Serves as liaison to the Initiative's Community Advisory Board; assists Director with board development and leadership activities: organizational research, development of by-laws, vetting and selection of members, setting board agenda and writing meeting minutes, etc.    • Assist in the development of the Digital Inclusion Strategy, Sub-Grant Program, Mobile Technology Lab Deployment, Community Outreach and Partnership Strategies. Project Management Consultant Hillcrest Management Group - Washington, DC June 2008 to November 2011 Developed firm strategy and identify opportunities that provide consulting solutions. Provide strategic sales support for contracting requirements. Conducted strategic marketing (due diligence, market research and requirement analysis) of client offer within 30-day to 6-month sales cycles. Created, led and managed project  management efforts from the Interest Phase through and Post Proposal phases (craddle to grave) for federal government agencies.    Project Management. Acquired strong understanding of project management concepts, principles and best practices for telecommunications and technology sectors.    • Managed Project Plans across all Planning Groups (Initiating, Planning, Executing, Monitoring & Controlling and Closing)    • Managed Project Plans across Knowledge Areas (Scope, Time, Cost, Quality, Human Resource, Communications, Risk Management and Procurement    • Managed implementation, milestones, budget, scope and stakeholder communication matters     Broadband Strategy. Reviewed grant applications for the Broadband Technology Opportunities Program (BTOP), a $4.7 billion federal grant program established as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA). Examined project benefit, technical feasibility and business strategy of grant proposals against program requirements to spur economic growth through broadband deployment. Grant proposals total nearly $10 million in funding authority. Assessed cost/benefit (risk analysis) and made technology strategy recommendations. Served as subject matter expert on fixed-mobile convergence matters. Project Manager (Business Strategy) Motorola International - Berlin April 2006 to August 2006 Conducted market research, policy analysis as well as examined business case for WiMax deployment in South Africa. Supported Go-to-Market efforts across the Networks and Enterprise division in Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) region. Analyzed Electronic Communications Convergence legislation and related policy matters to assess impact on South African subsidiary operations. Developed competitive landscape (ecosystem) for South African wireless broadband marketplace. Examined third-party funding sources: regional development banks, corporate venture capital, European Union structural funds, among others for network build out. Served as subject matter expert on fixed-mobile convergence matters. Telecommunications Policy Specialist Robert Bosch Foundation Fellowship - Bonn, OH June 2003 to August 2004 T-Mobile International, Public & Regulatory Affairs  Regulatory Authority for Telecommunications & Post (RegTP/Bundesnetzagentur)    Conducted research on wireless policy issues impacting trans-Atlantic telecom markets, such as spectrum policy, digital broadband television, Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP), health effects of mobile communications (EMR), consumer billing and regulatory review of major telecom mergers. Attended spectrum planning meeting to optimize company's technology-product mix offer. Established company's first global public policy Best Practice on EMR. Provided regular reports on American telecommunications sector developments. Congressional Affairs Manager CTIA - The Wireless Association - Washington, DC June 2000 to May 2003 Developed strategic planning of public policy agenda of wireless industry before Congress and the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). Researched and analyzed federal legislation impacting commercial wireless industry. Developed decision papers and briefing materials for Capitol Hill meetings, conferences, workshops, and conventions. Education Master's in Business Administration (MBA) University of South Carolina - Columbia, SC Bachelor of Arts in Political Science & Economics Tulane University - New Orleans, LA Skills MS Access, MS Excel, MS Project, MS Word, MS Word, SharePoint, Deltek, GovWin, SQL Server, Tableau, ESRI (ArcGIS), Excel, Powerpoint, Program Management, PMP, German (Advanced-C2) Certifications/Licenses Certified Scrum Master Certificate in Project Management (CPM) Project Management Professional (PMP) Chief Data Officer (CDO) - Level 1 Groups ESRI Telecommunications Users International Institute of Business Analysis Microsoft Project User Group (MPUG) Technology Business Management (TBM) Council Project Management Institute (PMI) Scrum Alliance Additional Information Clearances: Public Trust Clearance (High)  CCNA Cyber Ops (pending)    •Ability to present technology strategy to all levels of company management     •Experience within a carrier, network supplier, industry trade group and government IT provider     •Proven ability providing executive support, business strategy and government relations    •Strong financial analysis, public policy, project and strategic management skills