Security Officer Console Operator - Lowe’s <span class="hl">Security</span> Officer Console Operator - Lowe’s Mooresville, NC Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Security Officer Console Operator - Lowe’s Sunstates Security - Mooresville, NC November 2017 to Present Monitor internal and external events that occur twenty-four hour/seven days a week. Serves as the focal point for managing and coordinating a response to incidents which may occur at the site location. Assume primary responsibility for monitoring events that have the potential to impact the Client or their employees. Monitor security systems and information sources to assess any possible impact to the employees or the client. Assist with crisis response, ensuring relevant events are escalated and responded to in an effective and timely manner.     Duties include, but are not limited to:  • Execute security services as outlined in site-specific Post orders and directed by Security Management  • Observe and report suspicious activities and persons  • Write detailed narrative reports and maintain daily activity reports (DARs)  • Enforce rules, regulations, policies, procedures, and respond to emergency situations requiring security assistance Testing Clerk Charlotte MEPS - Charlotte, NC August 2016 to Present Conducts aptitude and qualification examinations at the MEPS and Military Entrance Test (MET) sites for applicants of the various Armed Services. Tests include the Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery (ASVAB), Computerized Adaptive Testing (CAT) – ASVAB, and computer and paper and pencil special purpose tests given at the MEPS for Service-specific occupational classification of applicants. Conducts high school ASVAB tests as required. Briefs applicants, distributes and proctors examinations, scores exams, performs quality control of examination and applicable applicant information, sends results to appropriate personnel, and performs data entry of results and information into the USMEPCOM Integrated Reporting System (USMIRS). Operations Analyst ( IT) Mergent Financial Inc - Fort Mill, SC April 2016 to August 2016 • Maintains quality service by establishing and enforcing organizational standards.  • Contributes to team efforts by accomplishing related results as needed.  • Verifies results by completing tests.  • Maintains systems by researching and resolving problems, maintaining system integrity, and security.  • Identify workflow/system improvements and work with supervisor and operations team to enact change. Transportation Manager (Battalion Senior Sergeant) U.S. Army Europe August 2014 to April 2016 Operations Senior Sergeant in the 18th Combat Sustainment Support Battalion with an assigned strength of 900 Soldiers. Facilitate the Military Decision Making Processes (MDMP) for the command group and advise the commander and staff in overseeing and managing the equitable distribution of operations orders. Coordinate and synchronize logistical and administrative support among local agencies and authorities to facilitate doctrinally sound, realistic, and efficient training.    • Supervise operation and control of movement of 900 personnel and cargo by air, rail, sea, or road.  • Prepare, distribute, and evaluate daily reports of operations.  • Manage technical operations and supervise ten section coordinators while working effectively with senior leaders.  • Assist in providing staff supervision, policy, and guidance relating to movement of both personnel and cargo  • Exhibit strong computer skills including proficiency with Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Access, Outlook, and web-browsers Company First Sergeant U.S. Army Europe August 2012 to August 2014 First Sergeant of the only multi-functional, Inland Cargo Transfer Company supporting United States Army Europe (USAEUR) and European Command (EUCOM).    • Direct and oversee daily activities of 151 personnel, 38 wheeled vehicles, 22 material handling vehicles and other equipment valued in excess of $23MM.  • Improved accountability of personnel from 50 to 95 percent accuracy by creating a relational database tracking system  • Maintained a safe and healthy working environment in accordance with company policies with zero accidents  • Plan, coordinate and execute, in a timely manner, the specific daily activities such as maintenance, recovery, receiving, and shipping Cargo and Freight Agent U.S. Army Europe October 2010 to August 2012 Senior Truck Master in a Palletized Load System (PLS) Transportation Company, responsible for assisting the commander in coordinating, supervising, and controlling the company's mission operations, dispatching, transport movement requests, and reporting requirements, employment and deployment of organic operating equipment and maintenance activities, also responsible for monitoring and controlling movement and accountability of company assets, which included 170 flat racks, 60 PLS trucks and trailers valued in excess of $40 million.    • Supervise and provide technical guidance to a 165-member transportation company, forward deployed in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom.  • Participate in over 100 transportation activity and convoy operations, including planning, the establishment of control measures, and the observance of civil laws and military regulations.  • Receive and distribute highway motor transport missions to move over 20,000 truckloads of equipment from Iraq; representing the first major troop and equipment relocation in modern history from a hostile area of operations.  • Develop Access database that tracks all personnel, combining personal, advancement, assignment, etc. fields into one database for "one stop shopping." Senior Small Group Leader NCO Academy - Fort Eustis, VA March 2007 to October 2010 Senior Small Group Leader teaching transportation and aviation Advanced Leader's Course (ALC) at an Academy with an annual population of over 2000 students. Manage five Transportation MOSs, to include the development of Training Support Packages (TSPs), evaluation updates, and research. Manage and oversee 17 Small Group Leaders including leadership evaluations, training requirements for graduation, and end-of-course critiques, and reviews. Maintain and account for unit equipment valued at $350k.    • Recognized by Regimental Command Sergeant Major for achieving 93% accreditation rating from TRADOC.  • Pioneered transformation to Modular Redesign of combat service support structure throughout the army.  • Trained 25 instructors to use the new web-based Lifelong Learning Center Blackboard System of emerging technology. Education B.S. in Computer and Information Science University of Maryland University College - Adelphi, MD 2012 A.A. in Management University of Maryland University College - Adelphi, MD 2008 Skills Customer Service, Data Entry, Filing Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/arnoldrcaldwell Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: United States Rank: First Sergeant February 1988 to April 2016 Additional Information A dynamic and goal driven professional with solid leadership and managerial experience. Demonstrated experience in human resource management, operations, and conflict resolution. Highly organized with the ability to manage multiple projects and meet deadlines. A strong work ethic combined with a commitment to excellence in all projects undertaken. A team player, working effectively with co-workers and senior management in accomplishing objectives. Exemplary communication and presentation skills. Computer expert.    SKILLS:  • Training and Leadership  • Exceptional Problem Solving skills and a compassion for continuous improvement  • Standards / Procedures Compliance  • Ability to learn and develop skills in a fast-paced environment    • Judgment and Decision-Making  • Conflict Resolution and Critical Thinking  • Self-motivation and the ability to achieve goals independently as well as to contribute to teams