IT Operations Mainframe First Response Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> Operations Mainframe First Response <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Pontiac, MI Holistic knowledge of mainframe and server architecture.  • Extensive client support background.  • Ability to isolate client issue, provide resolutions and document thoroughly. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Operations Mainframe First Response Analyst General Motors Warren Technical Center - Warren, MI October 2013 to February 2019 Works in a 12-hour shift rotation to provide first response support in the mainframe international environment. Monitor IT Operation Center application queues and respond to IT Operation Center incidents, mainframe job abends and service requests within stated Service Level Agreements, reference and create knowledge management articles, participate in monthly patching validations and change deployments. Continue to work and build relationships with peers in the mainframe application level 2 and level 3 support teams. Cross-train in multiple applications to increase skill set and provide cross-training to new hires and peers for my responsible areas. Work as a Global Service Desk Support Agent, supporting GM employees and contractors in the GM global environment. Used the GM Knowledge management articles and my knowledge to resolve GM employees and contractors IT connections and access issues in the desktop and mainframe environment.                                               OnStar Global Incident Manger - Contractor CDI IT Solutions - Southfield, MI July 2010 to November 2013 Restore normal service to operation as quickly as possible with minimum disruption to On Star network. Manage the technical meet-me-line and ensuring proper escalation notification, severity definitions and perform incident follow up that require root cause analysis. Ensure excellent end to end service delivery of infrastructure processes and procedures. Managing every aspect of an incident and minimize any disruption to the On Star environment:    ·       Received incident information from On star Call Center  ·       Detection through On Star server monitoring tools.  ·       Engage and escalation to appropriate server and Vendor support  ·       Diagnosis problem quickly  ·       Establish Severity Definition according Incident SLA  ·       Recover production operation and application performance  ·       Verification with suppliers, managers and onsite support of resolution. GM Global Incident Manager EDS 2007 to 2010 Restore normal service to operation as quickly as possible with minimum disruption to GM business. Manage the technical meet-me-line and ensuring proper escalation notification, severity definitions and perform incident follow up that require root cause analysis. Ensure excellent end to end service delivery of infrastructure processes and procedures. Managing every aspect of an incident:    • Detection through server monitoring tools.  • Engage and escalation to appropriate application or server support  • Diagnosis quickly of problem  • Establish Severity Definition according Incident SLA  • Recover production operation and application performance  • Verification with suppliers, managers and onsite support of resolution. Operations Assistance Center Technican Electronic Data Services - Lansing, MI 2005 to 2007 Lansing MI  Operations Assistance Center  OAC support is a 24*7 operation that covered a number of GM Suppliers and also Non GM accounts. This support consisted of well over 200 non GM accounts    • Mainframe Network Security  • Mainframe Terminal support including ATM systems  • Mainframe Printer support  • SAP support  • Mainframe Network outages  • EDI transfer support GMNA Mainframe Security Analyst Electronic Data Services - Lansing, MI 2003 to 2005 Lansing MI  GMNA Mainframe Security  Mainframe Security provides 24*7 supports on all GM mainframe applications and access issues such as.    • Password Resets  • Account Access issues  • Application outages & restarts  • Mainframe Network support  • Client ID Maintenance Manufacturing Service Master Agreement Technical Customer Supporter Agent Electronic Data Services - Lansing, MI 2000 to 2003 Southfield/Lansing MI  Manufacturing Service Master Agreement Technical Customer Supporter Agent  MSMA Supports all of GM manufacturing Plants and supports there plant floor operations.  This support consisted of 24*7 Critical Application support that could not be handled by the normal GM Helpdesk due to Critical Metrics and penalties that could occur due to an outage.    • Provide technical support for client and corporate personnel in diagnostic and resolutions to mainframe, controllers and network issues.  • Re establish EDS/TELNET and mainframe application access, including security and CICS, DBS, JES2, MVS, IMS-B&B, and VTAM configuration issues in a timely manner.  • Resolve terminal, printer, and hardware problems with the aid of the Global Knowledgebase. Senior Service Specialist-Mainframe Operations Royal Sun Alliance - Southfield, MI 1980 to 1999 • Control and operate IBM S/390, 9221 and 3090 Mainframes and LAN system environment.  • Monitor and process overnight mainframe batch cycles and perform Network data download.  • Monitor various reports and distribute as scheduled.  • Ensure mainframe and LAN backup and restore procedures performed nightly.  • Prepare operations documentation and processes for department and remote users.  • Maintain control of inventory system for computer operation. Tape Librarian / Technician Chrysler Corporation - Highland Park, MI 1978 to 1980 • Operate and maintain the manual and Calcomp automated tape library; system including cataloging tapes through Xytex database.  • Shipped and received tapes from various corporate departments and plant locations, this also involved repairing and replacing damaged tapes. Education Associate Liberal Arts Degree in Computer Science Oakland Community College - Farmington Hills, MI January 1972 to January 1974 Incomplete in Business Administration University of Michigan - Dearborn, MI January 1976 Skills HTML, security, Active Directory Additional Information Qualifications    To manage the recovery of the client's system operations, monitoring of applications, hardware, data storage, and peripheral devices to achieve restoration of services. To offer client analysis, trending and statistical data on client systems, applications and device performance reporting.  Holistic knowledge of mainframe and server architecture.  • Extensive client support background.  • Ability to isolate client issue, provide resolutions and document thoroughly.