Information Security Specialist & IT Consultant Information <span class="hl">Security</span> Specialist &amp; <span class="hl">IT</span> Consultant Information Security Specialist North Las Vegas, NV Experienced Information Security Specialist with diverse industry, specializing in  Information Systems, Network and Security Administration, Project Management, Training and  Customer Service. Professional expertise includes administering and coordinating the  configuration, classification of systems roles and applications, vulnerability management,  disaster recovery planning and information protection analysis. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Information Security Specialist & IT Consultant Self Owned Business - Las Vegas, NV Present Source, negotiate and facilitate contractual agreements for Managed Information Security and miscellaneous IT related services. Information Security Analyst Vegas.com, LLC - Las Vegas, NV September 2017 to January 2018 Hired to support existing security workflows primarily focused on maintaining Level 1  PCI-DSS regulatory compliance. Responsible for daily review of log sources and reporting.  Managed security tools; McAfee Enterprise ePO & HIPS, Snort, Splunk, Tripwire and Qualys. Information Security Specialist, SaaS Division Citrix Systems, Inc - Goleta, CA July 2009 to July 2016 Hired to support efforts to identify, assess and remediate vulnerabilities in all payment and critical systems in support of PCI-DSS, Sarbanes-Oxley regulatory standards.  Appointed seat on CAB (Change Advisory Board) weekly to review and approve RFC (Request for  Change) submissions to qualify risks and approve changes for multiple departments against many product verticals.  Attended weekly architecture meetings to evaluate, dialogue and articulate potential risks  and/or impact to security model(s). and/or various security impact of proposed software and hardware change implications to security SDLC (Software Development Lifecycle) security  impact of projects and architectural changes.    Participated in operations security weekly on-call schedule, coordinated and conducted  security configuration upgrades change management windows and incident response handling.  Responsible for CIA (Confidentiality, Integrity, Availability), review daily operation of security tools for security reporting; SIEM (Qradar, Endace), NIDS (Snort 3DS, Endace  Probe), Log Management(LogLogic, Syslog-NG), PKI Identity Management Systems (Novell IDM,  FreeIPA) Kerberos/LDAP Authentication (FreeIPA, 389 Directory Server), 2FA (RSA SecureID,  Symantec VIP) and File Integrity Monitoring (Tripwire). Deployed Skybox Security product for the purpose of threat intelligence and to reduce the number of egregious production and  enterprise firewall rules.    Key Achievements:  ? Delivered clean quarterly external PCI compliance for 3 years using Rapid7 NeXpose  Software.    ? Key Achievements: Contributed to development of Global SOC ( Security Operations  Center) program acting as primary point of escalation for intrusion alerts and tuning.    ? Implemented 10G Net Optics Taps and Aggregators feeding Endace Probe NIDS appliances in new data center buildout at Switch in Las Vegas. DoD Engineering Technician IV Indyne, Inc - Vandenberg AFB, CA May 2005 to July 2009 Network & Systems Administration/Architecture  Responsible for and maintenance of NIPR network services within NCC (Network Control Center)  primarily for 14 th Air Force, 30 th Space Wing and detachment units. Supported Cisco voice and data networks wideband fiber infrastructure.    Shared administrative responsibility of Dell EMC CX-300/CX-500 SAN Fibre Channel arrays and,  Symantec Enterprise Antivirus, Windows Software Update Services for 7,000 desktops.  Fulfilled weekly on-call duties, participated in maintenance windows and responded to outage  escalations as needed.    Key Achievements:  ? Upgraded 30 th Weather Squadron launch-critical data acquisition systems used to capture and distribute upper atmospheric conditions.    ? Instrumental role in coordinating bare metal hardware server conversions of file,  database and application server resources to VMware ESX.    ? Deployed Cisco VSOM video surveillance platform in support of 30 th Security Forces  Squadron to allow monitoring at controlled entry points on Air Force Installation. LAN Administrator/Hostmaster/Level II Technical Support NetLojix Communications, Inc - Santa Barbara, CA December 2003 to May 2005 Tasked with fielding support tickets via email, phone and onsite for Dialup, ADSL, Frame  Relay and managed T-1 customers. Participated in weekly on-call rotation.  Supported provisioning requests for managed hosting environments. Partnered with Level3  Communications to ship and remotely deploy MGCP/SIP ALG and phone hardware for hosted VoIP  services.    Key Achievements:  ? Rolled out and remotely supported Symantec Enterprise Protection client couple's with  Shavlik Patch Management system for large insurance customer, AGIA Insurance.    ? Documented and standardized pre-shipment VoIP provisioning and remote deployment  procedurals. Education High school Cabrillo High School - Lompoc, CA February 1999 to June 2001 Other Skills Information Security (10+ years), Active Directory (10+ years), Sharepoint (7 years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Intrusion Detection/Prevention (9 years), TCP/IP (10+ years), Customer Service (10+ years), Network Administration (10+ years), Cyber Security, Siem, It Security, Nist, Comptia, Cybersecurity, Information Assurance, Linux, Network Security Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ Present CompTIA Security+ Present Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) Present GIAC Certified Intrusion Detection Analyst (GCIA) 2009 to 2014