Senior Microsoft Solutions Provider Lead Senior Microsoft Solutions Provider Lead Senior Microsoft Solutions Provider Lead - Aeon Technology Partners Princeton, NJ Work Experience Senior Microsoft Solutions Provider Lead Aeon Technology Partners March 2016 to Present * I held the Senior Microsoft solutions provider role for the Microsoft Solution Practice. Provided all aspects of strategic IT planning and end-to-end technology initiatives for Aeon Technology Partners customers  * Microsoft Centric Solution around Office 365 and Azure Cloud initiatives.  * Microsoft Unified Communications with Microsoft Lync/Skype for Business Enterprise Voice initiatives.  * Microsoft Centric Solution with System Center Modern Workplace initiatives.  * Developing Statements of Work for sales efforts include sizing and scoping the opportunities.  * Provide End of project turn over documentation  * Participate as technical sales engineer or technology advisor to help close / win or shorten the sales cycle.  * Creating 3-5 year road maps for small, mid and large enterprises.  * Provide hands on production support, design, development, and maintenance of multiple customers in multiple industries  * Solved client business issues with efficient application of technology solutions, best practices and methodologies.  * Integration between Cisco Call Manager 8.6 / Avaya and Lync for VOIP on the Lync Client.  * Deploy Sonus , Audio Codes M1k and qualified Microsoft Lync Vendors  * Thinktel/ Intelepeer Direct SIP Trunking Providers for Microsoft Lync/Skype for Business  * Deploy Actiance "Vantage" for Archiving and Compliance  * Microsoft Super TAP Program for Windows Server 2016/ System Center 2016, Microsoft Teams , Skype 2019, Exchange 2019  * Worked with SIP trunk providers and SBC products as well as Survivable Branch Appliance for remote sites.  * Zero touch Operating System deployment of Windows 7 / 8.1,10 using SCCM 2012/ 2016  * System Center SEO (Standard Operating Environment. (OSD Deployment)  * System Center Hybrid Cloud connector for Windows EMS/Intune (Small, Mid and Large Scale deployments)  * Azure Pack for Hosting platforms for Hosting Vendors  * Hybrid Exchange on Premise with Office 365 Cloud, ADFS/ADFS Proxy for Single Sign on deployments (Driving Integration)  * Deployment of Microsoft 365 E1- E5 Cloud PBX to small/mid and enterprise customers  * Using Migration Wiz to Migrate Bulk Mailboxes to Microsoft 365  * Microsoft Skype for Business Call Quality Dashboard and Call quality metrics (CQM Reporting) for Skype for Business.    Clients list  • NJ State Department of Human Services - Architect Hybrid Cloud - Office 365, MS Teams, EMS/ATP/Intune, SCCM 15k users  • Administrative Office of the UNITED STATES COURTS Architect Hybrid Cloud - Office 365, NOTES to O365, Skype 70k users  • J Reckner Health Care Research- Architect Hybrid Cloud Azure (IAAS) Office 365, Exchange, Skype Enterprise Voice 5k users  • AT&T Consulting Services Cloud hosting for Ernst Young Global - Architect / Deploy Hybrid Cloud Azure (IAAS) Office 365 /Exchange / Skype for 25k seat Enterprise Voice, Exchange and O365  • Principal Financial Group (Iowa, Global) Architect / Deploy Hybrid Cloud Azure (IAAS) Office 365 /Exchange / Skype for 15k seat Enterprise Voice. (PAAS) customized developed applications hosted.  • ADP (Automatic Data Processing) (Microsoft Technology Strategic road map and Deployments) Lync Enterprise Voice, Exchange and O365 as well as Azure cloud with 65k Users  • Janus Capital (Denver, CO) Microsoft Lync Enterprise 2013 Deployment with Enterprise Voice to 5k Users (Side Projects)  • Beach Body (California) Microsoft Exchange / Microsoft Lync 2010 and Office 365 deployment. 1k Users (Side Projects) Senior Microsoft Solutions Provider Lead (PSeller) Carousel Industries March 2014 to February 2016 * I held the UC Architect role for the Microsoft practice with a multi-million dollar pipe line. Provide strategic road maps and end-to-end Microsoft UC initiatives for Carousel's customers  * Support Marketing efforts for Joint Microsoft initiatives.  * Developing Statements of Work for sales efforts include sizing and scoping the opportunities.  * Provide End of project turn over documentation and Hands  * Participate as technical Pre sales engineer or technology advisor to help close / win or shorten the sales cycle.  * Provide hands on production support, design, development, and maintenance of multiple customers in multiple industries  * Consistently met or exceeded the needs of customers.  * Solved client business issues with efficient application of technology solutions, best practices and methodologies.  * Continual lead all Deployment Projects for Microsoft centric technology, and other third party hardware vendor products.  * Design, planned, Architected and deployed to production Microsoft Lync 2010/2013 UC with Enterprise Voice strategy for customers  * Performed Microsoft Office 365 Fast Track Migrations  * Microsoft Exchange and Skype for Business Deployment, Planning Services for Microsoft Vouchers  * Worked with SIP trunk providers and SBC products as well as Survivable Branch Appliance for remote sites.  * Hybrid Cloud Including Azure (IAAS) and Office 365, Exchange , Skype and Single Sign-On MFA (Multifactor Auth.) Senior Microsoft Solutions Provider Lead (VTSP) Fusion Storm October 2012 to February 2014 * I held the Senior Microsoft solutions provider role for the National Microsoft practice with a multi-million dollar pipe line. Provided all aspects of strategic IT planning and end-to-end technology initiatives for Fusion Storm customers  * Support Marketing efforts for Joint Microsoft initiatives.  * Developing Statements of Work for sales efforts include sizing and scoping the opportunities.  * Provide End of project turn over documentation and Hands  * Participate as technical sales engineer or technology advisor to help close / win or shorten the sales cycle.  * Creating 3-5 year road maps for small, mid and large enterprises.  * Solved client business issues with efficient application of technology solutions, best practices and methodologies.  * Continual lead all implementation of Information Systems including Microsoft centric technology, and other third party hardware vendor products.  * Created Strategic road maps and Power Point Presentations to present to C level and Technical Audiences.  * Design /planned /Architected and deployed to production Microsoft Lync 2010/2013 UC with Enterprise Voice strategy for customers  * Integration between Cisco Call Manager 8.6 / Avaya and Lync for VOIP on the Lync Client.  * Worked with SIP trunk providers and SBC products as well as Survivable Branch Appliance for remote sites.  * Zero touch deployment of Windows 7 using SCCM 2007/2012 SEO Standard Operating Environments  * Deployed Azure (IAAS) to help move VMware customers to Azure Cloud using Azure Site Recovery  * Hybrid Cloud Including Azure (IAAS) and Office 365, Exchange , Skype and Single Sign-On MFA (Multifactor Auth.) Director of IT - Microsoft Solutions Provider/ Consultant The School District of Philadelphia - Philadelphia, PA May 2008 to October 2012 * I held the executive technical leadership role in IT with a multi-million dollar yearly budget providing technology solutions to the 6th largest school district in the United States of America. Provided all aspects of strategic IT planning and end-to-end technology initiatives.  * Reporting directly to the executive board for the School District I served as the Pivotal role for all inter-office IT-related matters, daily operations, and consolidation opportunities.  * Rehired to lead the technology operations team and develop technology road map for the next 5-7 years.  * Provide hands on production support, design, development, and maintenance of Active Directory infrastructure  * Consistently met or exceeded the needs of end-users, administrative staff, and external vendors.  * Solves client business issues with efficient application of technology solutions, best practices and methodologies.  * Continual lead all implementation of Information Systems including Microsoft, Netapp and other third party products.  * Worked with diverse teams in a matrixes managed environment, both internal and external.  * Use strong planning and organizational skills to prioritize inter-departmental objectives.  * Developed plans to upgrade the infrastructure to Windows 2008R2 Active Directory.  * Created and Design Test bed for VOIP and SIP trunking Providers Microsoft Lync 2010  * Redefine initiatives to build a standard secure computing desktop computing image by testing and deploying Windows 7.  * Provide project plans and perform migration of over 35+ Physical servers into VMware VSphere host. Manage and administer VCenter Servers and ESX / ESXi host.  * Played a pivotal role with Microsoft Azure Product development team to develop customer facing application in the cloud.  * Design/planned and deployed to production Microsoft Lync 2010 UC with Enterprise Voice strategy for 35,000 users.  * Integration between Cisco Call Manager 8.6 and Lync for VOIP on the Lync Client.  * Configured Exchange UM for Voice mailboxes and Lync IVR / Hunt groups for inward dialing.  * Worked with SIP trunk providers and Audio codes products SBC and Survivable Branch Appliance for remote sites.  * Worked with application/database teams to design/performance tune and rollout the internal intranet sites strategy for 35,000 users using SharePoint 2010.  * Installed and assist with Microsoft TAP Program for LYNC 2010 (Beta / Preview) at the School District of Philadelphia.  * Customize workflows for employee onboard process and several other automated business process within SharePoint.  * Zero touch deployment of Windows 7 using SCCM 2007  * Windows 7 Application testing and remediation with Microsoft Application compatibility toolkit "Act 5.6"  * Built App Virtualization infrastructure and integrated Microsoft App V with SCCM to deploy virtualized applications for legacy apps.  * Administration of IP PBX VOIP PBX System and integration into Microsoft Lync 2010 enterprise voice, adds, moves and changes configured voicemail boxes and configured Exchange UM roles for unified voice mail boxes.  * Began to transition certain technology to Microsoft Live@Edu for the entire School District of Philadelphia.  * Introduce newer technology such as (SCCM) 2007 for systems management.(upgraded from SMS 2003)  * Managed assets and created software packages with admin studio and deployed via SCCM 2007  * Upgraded and Migrated from SCCM 2007 to SCCM 2012.  * Hybrid Deployment of Exchange 2010 with Office 365, ADFS and ADFS Proxy for Single Sign on.  * Created Kix and VB login scripts and scripting processing for desktops Director of Technology Club ABC Tours / Crown Travel - Bloomfield, NJ May 2007 to May 2008 IT Manager Club ABC Tours and Co-Presidents of Crown Travel Services I November 2006 to May 2007 * I held the executive technical leadership role in IT for a 36 million dollar travel operator company providing travel products to both international and domestic markets. I provided all aspects of strategic IT planning and end-to-end technology initiatives. Led day-to-day operations of data center operations, help desk, application delivery, development, and network engineering. Transform IT into a strategic business partner by providing project management, relationship partnering, budget planning, strategic and tactical technology direction for the entire company.  * Reporting directly to the COO for Club ABC Tours and Co-Presidents of Crown Travel Services I served as the focal point for all inter-office IT-related matters, daily operations, and company growth opportunities.  * Directed all phases of multiple projects including project charter development, scope planning and definition, directed and managed projects execution, monitored and controlled all project work across multiple projects. Developed a comprehensive integrated change control process for the entire data center and finally supervised all project closures with seamless handoffs  * Due diligence for company acquisition targets and integration of final acquisitions into corporation.  * Renegotiated company's major technology, operations and call center contracts for significant cost savings, reducing annual budget for the last 2 years  * Built Microsoft App V with SCCM to deploy virtualized applications to Citrix / Terminal Servers.  * Oversight of internet technologies including web site and e-marketing systems.  * Created the technology strategy/roadmap to align the IT strategy with the corporate vision.  * Oversee all IT staffing, budget projections and asset purchases.  * Provide hands on technical production support, design, development, and maintenance of Active Directory infrastructure systems.  * Played a pivotal role with the migration of legacy Windows NT 4.0 to Active directory 2003  * Integrated Virtual server technology by using VMware VSphere 4.0 and Migrated 25 + application servers into VM.  * Introduce new technology such as (SCCM) SMS 2007 for systems management. (SCOM) MOM 2007 for monitoring, SharePoint 2007 Intranet web services, (OCS 2007R2) Unified communications services  * Define initiatives to create a secure computing environment with the upgrade from NT to Windows XP.  * Introduce new threat management systems such as Fortinet firewall.  * Created Disaster recovery plan to backup critical systems and created a failover DR site.  * Built over 65+ Servers. Managed, maintained, and supported Microsoft Exchange 5.5 to Exchange 2003 migration.  * Implements network security policies and IT governance at the corporate level.  * Plan, manages and develops upgrades to Mitel's telephone system and integration into OCS 2007 R2 for Enterprise Voice..  * Managed day-to-day IT Operations through close collaborative relationships with 5 direct reports by coordination the resolution of all corporate support .Helpdesk and desktop support. Director of Technology Manager - Microsoft Solutions Provider / Consultant The School District of Philadelphia - Philadelphia, PA January 2005 to November 2006 Recruited to drive enhancements in operational performance through establishment of a new 10,500 data center and technology infrastructure group focused on creating Technology road map that drove the delivery of converged enterprise networks with more than 35,000 users. Coordinate 20 support specialists, selection/implementation of third party technologies, and project planning/budgeting/delivery. Liaise with vendors and execution of all operational aspects of Information Technology Services and engagements.  * Provide hands on production support, design, development, and maintenance of Active Directory infrastructure  * Directly reporting all Information Technology initiatives to SDP senior executive management.  * Solved client business issues with efficient application of technology solutions, best practices and methodologies.  * Worked with diverse teams in a matrix managed environment, both internal and external.  * Use strong planning and organizational skills to priorities based upon departmental objectives and service level agreements.  * Participate in Architecting, Design of active directory, evaluation and selection of third party hardware and software.  * Provide project management, budgets and consulting in the areas of technology assessment, policy and information transformation.  * Migration of 35,000 users from NT 4.0 to Active Directory 2003.  * Design / Implement Exchange 2003 Clustered (multi) Node messaging servers  * Managed assets and created software packages with admin studio and deployed with SMS 2003  * Redefine initiatives to build a Standard secure computing desktop image by testing and deploying windows systems.  * Establish IT control standards, policies, configuration guidelines, and procedures for operation of windows client / server systems.  * Work with the Chief Security Officer to Design, and implement, manage security as it relates to windows environment.  * Support initiatives to improved methods by working directly with the helpdesk team and helpdesk support system. Global Network Security Architect and Administration/Consultant J.P. Morgan Chase & Company- Bank One - New York, NY January 2004 to January 2005 Spearheaded upgrades of the organization's network infrastructure focused on enhancing global administration and security enterprise-wide. Performed the evaluation of new projects and applications in relation to network security architecture and design. Analyzed business risks, selected new systems/products, supported project management/planning initiatives, and delivered expert support and administrative services to 228,000+ users nationally. Built and directed top performing teams of technical specialists  * Overall Global administration and security for JP Morgan Chase & Co. network infrastructure.  * Participated in highly visible M&A projects including integration/consolidation of both IT operations platform into one.  * Successfully restructured this global firm operating platform by establishment of the organization's standard secure computing environment  * Sharpened information security and operational performance through establishment of security policies and standards, successfully passing related regulatory security audits and Sox compliance.  * Enhanced technical performance through standardization of desktop deployment team and by serving as a key contributor to desktop operations projects.  * Impacted corporate productivity and efficiency through development and implementation of new systems, tools, technical modifications, and strategies.  * Design, Plan, Develop, review, and maintain security policies and standards for NT/Active Directory and Netware.  * Evaluate new projects and applications particularly as they relate to network security architecture and design.  * Review and analysis of business risks. Active member in the JP Morgan Core engineering and Architect group.  * Heavy Interaction with all lines of business (LOB) and business units within the Bank  * Provide day-to-day extensive Senior-level support and administration for 228,000+ computer users across the USA. Administration of NT/ 2000 Active Directory (2003), NDS Novell 6.0. Senior Systems integration / Consultant First Union/Wachovia Corp - Wayne, NJ May 2002 to December 2003 Project management includes highly visible large-scale M&A projects to integrate both First Union and Wachovia Networks due to the Merger. Managed projects, performance, activity, and progress reports. Work with team members to develop, implement, and maintain enterprise-wide information security capabilities. Manage a variety of clients and provide support their overall security efforts. Ensure key business processes reflect appropriate risk management considerations. Assist evaluation of enterprise-wide security plans, policies, procedures, and practices. Day-to-day support for 5000+ users within the bank. Manage 15 direct report personnel. Built NT/ 2000, Novell 5.1 Servers. Administration & Security of NDS, NT/ Active Directory Domains. Senior LAN Analyst / Full Time Chase Manhattan Bank - New York, NY November 1998 to April 2002 3rd Shift  Project Management includes leading large-scale projects to integrate both JP Morgan and Chase Technology Operations due to the Merger. Ensure integrity of logical security for all Desktop computer-based systems across all technical platforms. Develop, review, and maintain security policies and standards for NT/Windows 2000 and Netware. Evaluate new Security products and applications particularly as they relate to network security architecture and design. Provide night-to-night third level technical support for 1700+ computer users within the downtown Manhattan area. Administration of Cisco Call manager VOIP PBX Systems, adds, moves and changes configuration of voicemail boxes and additional administration. Manage 11 direct reports desktop support personnel. Built NT/ 2000, Novell 5.1 Servers. Administration of NT Domains. Help Desk/Client Support C3I Inc October 1996 to November 1998 Provide 100% phone support to 7,000 Pfizer Pharmaceutical sales force clients. Particularly, software support and troubleshooting of proprietary and off the shelf software. Create timely, detailed, and accurate records of all steps necessary to achieve resolution of the problem including a summary of precise problem, and resolution. Provide assistance to level one technicians on support related issues through investigation, research, and additional training outlets. Education Technology Management University of Phoenix 2008 Effective Communication Skills Learning tree 2008 Management Skills Learning tree 2007 Union County College 2001 Technology Center for the Advancement of the Enterprise Architecture Skills Cisco (10+ years), Exchange (10+ years), operations (9 years), SIP (10+ years), Windows 7 (9 years), Solution Architect, Azure Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Operating Systems: MS Windows 7 ,8.1, Windows 10, Server 2003, 2008R2 ,2012R2,2016,2019    Hardware: HP Apollo , HP C3000/C7000 class blades, Cisco UCS, Dell, HP Procurve, Cisco switches.    NAS / SAN: HP Storage, HP EVA, MSA, Netapp, Overland, Adaptec, and Quantum.    Virtual: Hyper-V, VMware, SCVMM 2012,2016,  Mail Server / Messaging: Exchange Server, Office 365, FortiMail, Symantec Gateway, Cisco IronPort, Fireye, Sentrion    Scripting: Power Shell, Batch, scripting    Web Servers/Authentication (Microsoft IIS) / ADFS, Identity Manager, Modern Auth ,Saml 2.0, OAuth, Kerberos,.    Network Protocols: TCP/IP, DHCP, DNS, WINS, SNMP, HTTP, SSL, FTP, SMTP, Internet, BGP, RAS, SIP.    Wireless Networking: HP/ Fortinet ,WLAN, Active Sync, Good Link    Backup/Recovery: Microsoft DPM, Azure Site Recovery, Arcserve, Veritas, Netbackup, Backup Exec    Network Security/Monitoring: Cisco ASA, Fortinet, Zscaler Cloud Security, Trend, Symantec, Microsoft EMS, Windows Intune, UAG/TMG, McAfee(EPO), Azure OMS, Solar Winds, SCOM , Quest , Mcafee Foundstone, SOX/PCI compliance & technology auditing, Skype CQM Reporting, UC Assessor, Nectar, IR Prognosis for call quality    Software Installer Packages: SCCM 2007/ 2012 /2016, Flextera, Admin Studio, Advance Installer    Databases: SQL Server 2008,2012, 2014, 2016    Microsoft Tools: Microsoft ACT Tool kit, MAP, OMPM 2010, MDT 2012/2013, MDOP, APP V, VDI    Collaboration Tools: MS-Office, SharePoint, ,Lync, Skype, Teams, Polycom Treo, RMX, DMA, CSS, HDX, CX    Phone Systems: Cisco, Avaya AES,CM, SM, Audio codes, Sonus, Polycom and Various SIP trunk providers.    Wan Optimization: Riverbed, Blue Coat, Exinda, Fortinet, HP SDN, WAN Optimization    Datacenter/Cloud: IAAS / SAAS , Microsoft Office 365 ,Windows Azure, Azure Pak, Amazon Cloud, Rack Space, Network Access Centers , Hosting Service Providers, Microsoft Live@EDU , Microsoft Private and Public Cloud. (System Center) Azure Operations management Suite