IT Help Desk Support Specialist/Customer Service/Healthcare Information Tech <span class="hl">IT</span> Help Desk Support Specialist/Customer Service/Healthcare Information Tech HIT/Help Desk Support/Customer Service - TEKSYSTEMS Baltimore, MD To work in a challenging position in the area of computer information systems support services that will utilize and enhance my computer skills within a professional environment. I am seeking opportunities for growth and career advancement in IT Computer Security; Healthcare Management Systems. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Help Desk Support Specialist/Customer Service/Healthcare Information Tech RANDSTAD USA FL-MD/TEKSYSTEMS - Linthicum, MD April 2015 to Present Assisted with Enterprise level healthcare company with Epic and Cerner implementation in the Helpdesk Command Center. Implemented helpdesk technician duties and taking the overflow of calls and customer service skills. Network connectivity working with ticketing systems, Active directory, and password resets. Also, provide caregiver duties assisting homecare/hospice patients with medications, bathing, food preparation and cleaning. Resident Counselor EPIC, SMVI Vocational Services August 2013 to April 2015 Responsible for supporting program DDA participants in a community-based home. Duties include assisting with all aspects of daily living administration of medication, ADLs, meal preparation, household maintenance and providing a connection to the community through recreation planning, transportation, accompaniment to community-based events and places. Assistant Security Analyst Intern - Assisted Chief Security Officer Prince George's Community College October 2003 to December 2010 with Implementing Security policy in establishing level security rights and privileges for the end users. Assisted in preparing, analyzes, formulates, develops, and implements state government facility physical security policies, standards and procedures Monitor Help Desk Ticketing system and support security help desk using Remedy. Provide incident reporting and response capability. Maintain and operate all hardware supporting the configuration compliance verification and vulnerability assessment activities including system administration, configuration management, technical troubleshooting, backup/recovery, training and user support. Assisted with security procedures and validated student IDs. Assisted incoming students with placement exams and properly maintain student's records and exams. Input student exams and files using Foxpro2 System and Netpro. Monitored all login Id for Security on-line testing. SMART link Help Desk Support Maryland National Capital Park and Planning Commission November 2002 to March 2003 Performed duties as a Help Desk Support Specialist - duties included troubleshooting computer keys - software and hardware-related problems. Received, logged and tracked all customer calls using CLASS Software. Operate, maintain and configure the configuration compliance verification tool; apply regular updates from the vendor; provide operation, troubleshooting, training and helpdesk support. Performed and completed phone isolation and resolution duties utilizing shadow taskbar software. Provided micro-soft end-user training and advance support training to office staff for the use of Microsoft Office Automation Applications. Assisted senior level helpdesk technicians with installing, repairing and upgrading of computer desktops, servers, laptops and computer peripheral equipment. JCNPMO Administrative Assistant CACI, Inc. /Dept. of Justice November 2000 to December 2001 position. Performed data entry functions for all Service Order Confirmations (SOC's) and Notices of Service Availability (NOSA's) for Implementation Team for input into ACES. Performed all warranty administrator duties as a help desk technician with computer hardware, fax machines, photocopiers. Transition Coordinator/Provisioning/Implementation Coordinator MCI WORLDCOM/Vistas July 1999 to November 2000 Assisted senior management various installation projects that required crucial deadlines to be met and strong organizational skills to successfully coordinate. Analyzed, developed, and implemented new processes to assist the Program Management Team establish points of contact for site surveyors and site engineers for information verification relative to completing site survey plans. Transitioned multiple services at the DSO, DSI and DS3 levels. Other services included the Switched Voice Service (PRI/BRI & Standard), Dedicated Lines, Frame Relay, ATM, Routers, X.25, Toll Free, CSU/DSU, Analog, and Digital Services. Escalated & Completed out ASR (Access Service Requests)/FOC (Firm Order Commitments) due dates for customers using NETPRO, COMS, and Order Tracker Database systems. Education BS in Cybersecurity University of Maryland University College - Largo, MD December 2010 to Present AA in Computer Information Systems Strayer University-District of Columbia - Washington, DC August 1997 to June 1999 Skills Microsoft Windows XP, MS Office Suite, Novell GroupWise, OST and PST, Remedy,OPAS ticketing systems, password resets use Medconnect/Cerner Millennium, EPIC. (10+ years), Customer Service, Tech Support, Help Desk, Call Center, CNA (5 years) Links http://linkedin.com/cyberwatchangie Certifications/Licenses HIPAA Present Home Health Aide Present Heartsaver First Aid CPR AED Present Healthcare Provider CPR Present Healthcare Information Technician Present Additional Information • Over 20 years of providing exceptional administrative, customers services and computer service support to senior and management level employees  • Exceptional inter-personal skills in interacting with customers, staff and executive management  • Conscientious, meticulous, high-energy self-starter who takes pride in work  • Able to express concepts clearly both verbally and in writing    SECURITY CLEARANCE NCIC/NACI (Dept. of Justice) (1999-2001)    COMPUTER SKILLS:  Software: Microsoft Windows XP, MS Office Suite, Novell GroupWise, OST and PST, Remedy,  MS Exchange, MS Outlook Troubleshooting, Encase, Disk Image, Pico Zip, FTK Forensics  Software, BitPim Cell Phone Software, Intranet ware 4.11, Lotus1-2-3, dBase III, UNIX/LINUX,  Oracle Database Management, CEH Ethical Hacking, HTML Web Page Design, Dreamweaver  MX Certification, C++ Programming Language, Litesols Liferay Training  Hardware: IBM, Dell, HP PCs, Mac Book Pro, FTK & Encase Forensics tools, I-Phones, Androids