Epic Ambulatory Analyst Epic Ambulatory <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Epic Analyst 2 Palm Coast, FL Work Experience Epic Ambulatory Analyst UF Jacksonville Physicians - Jacksonville, FL January 2019 to Present Epic analyst. Certified in Epiccare Ambulatory. Working on storyboard, urgent care, and clinical support. Contract Security/Technical Application Instructor New Horizons Computer Learning Center - Tampa, FL February 2011 to Present • Taught Microsoft Server 2008/2016 classes.  • Taught CompTIA A+, Network+, and Security +. CASP, and CISSP courses  • Taught Microsoft Office Applications Classes.  • Taught Project Management Classes.  • Working on ITIL Practitioner Certification IT Analyst II New Horizons Computer Learning Center - Tampa, FL February 2011 to March 2018 • Epic Grand Central Certified.  • Worked with Server team on Active Directory, database, and web site integration.  • Excel and SQL database financial analysis.  • Created custom reports in EPIC.  • Worked with Security team on testing application interfaces and application security.  • Created Captivate and Articulate e-Learnings.  • Handle all troubleshooting for Epic Training eLearning modules.  • Administrator for LMS.  • Developed and deployed training program for entire hospital's Outlook and OWA training.  • Created Organizational Development Website, InfoPath forms, and SharePoint site.  • Created and implemented SharePoint End User and Technical Training.  • Taught basic computer skills training to 300 students with a 96% pass rate.  • Teaching Microsoft Office classes to various levels of users.  • Teaching soft skill classes such as interpersonal communication and problem solving.  • Project management for Epic Training, E-Learning Development, and Application Testing. ITT Adjunct Instructor New Horizons Computer Learning Center - Tampa, FL June 2012 to May 2013 I have taught Windows 7, Windows Active Directory, Project Management, Internet Information Services, Microsoft Exchange, Fedora Linux Server, JavaScript Programming, Computer Security, Ethics, and Network Security concepts. Sr. Microsoft Trainer Bailey Computer Technologies - Johnson City, TN February 2010 to February 2011 • Taught all Microsoft Office Applications for both Office 2007 and 2010  • Created Custom courses for Clients as needed.  • Taught SharePoint classes, A+, Security +, Network + classes as well.  • Project Management for Custom Training projects. Sr. Microsoft Trainer Jan New Horizons Computer Learning Center - Louisville, KY 2009 to February 2010 Tampa, FL  • As Sr. instructor I was responsible for the training and management of the other trainers.  • Taught all Microsoft Office Applications for both Office 2003 and 2007.  • Taught Windows XP and Vista to clients.  • Lead trainer for Jewish Hospital's conversion to Outlook 2003 from Lotus Notes. Created all course materials, Implemented the training plan, budget, and metrics for success of the project. Over 1200 employees trained in less than 30 days with a 95% pass rate.  • Received Comp-TIA Network +, Microsoft Desktop Support Technician, and Microsoft Certified Trainer certifications.  • Metrics that Matters Overall score was 8.7 out of 9 for entire time teaching.  • Taught multiple on sites including N.o.A.A. I have instructed in everything from SQL 2005, Office 2007, to Crystal Reports X. Adjunct Professor Remington College - Tampa, FL October 2009 to January 2010 • Taught Microsoft Server 2003 class.  • Taught Microsoft Desktop Support Class.  • Taught Microsoft Office 2007. I.T Analyst Lake-Land Real Estate - Monticello, IN November 2006 to December 2008 • Responsible for the entire network, web site, and all agent office, home, and laptop computers.  • Converted from multiple operating systems to Windows XP.  • Assisted in the selecting of the county wide Multiple Listing Service. Served as the technical liaison between the county and the company installing the database.  • Responsible for supporting Microsoft Small Business Server, Microsoft Exchange, and Microsoft SQL servers. Contract - Tier 2 Support Analyst Robert Half Technology - Houston, TX September 2006 to November 2006 • Project management for Desktop upgrade project.  • Advance end user support of an Oil and Gas pipeline company.  • Duties included MSI creation, Image creation, Active Directory Support, Application Support, VPN support, Phone and Remote User support, Dell Desktop and Laptop support, HP printer Support. Contract - Migration Specialist / Tier 2 Support TekSystems - Houston, TX June 2006 to September 2006 • Managed the migration team to implement the desktop migration project.  • Major Healthcare Company in Houston area.  • Migrated Windows 95/98/NT to Windows XP.  • Dell hardware remediation.  • Created custom script to deploy anti-virus package due to virus outbreak and deployed successfully to over 400 users in 24 hours. I.T Analyst Lake-Land Real Estate - Monticello, IN May 2002 to May 2006 Responsible for the entire network, web site, and all agent office, home, and laptop computers. Contract - Application Developer Eli-Lilly - Indianapolis, IN December 2001 to May 2002 • Packaged applications with WISE including creating custom MSI packages for in house created applications.  • Worked with the image creation and XP platform testing.  • Managed issues with deployments and managed team of deployment technicians to resolve issues as needed. Contract - Application Integration - Lead Technician Chevron-Texaco - Houston, TX August 2000 to October 2001 • Managed team and worked as a Tier 3 break/fix tech over a team of 20 applications packagers.  • Successfully packaged over 300 applications for global distribution.  • Responsible for training new packagers on the process, tricks, and techniques for creating MSI's.  • Assisted in the BETA test project of Windows XP for Chevron. Education Masters in Information Technology Sullivan College - Louisville, KY June 2009 to June 2011 Bachelor of Arts in Education Purdue University - West Lafayette, IN August 2003 to May 2006 Skills SECURITY, PROJECT MANAGEMENT, TEAM MANAGEMENT, SQL, ACTIVE DIRECTORY Additional Information SKILLS  SQL, Active Directory, Windows Server 2016, Windows Server Administration, Microsoft Office - Microsoft Certified Trainer, Microsoft Server - Microsoft Certified Professional, Windows Desktop Support Windows 7 and Windows 10, Team management, Project management, Application Support, Tier 2 and Tier 3 help desk. Computer Security