Customer Support Representative & Technical Support Customer Support Representative &amp; Technical Support Customer Support Representative & Technical Support - IntelliTime Systems Corporation Santa Ana, CA Microsoft Certified Professional possessing experience from over 19 dedicated years in technical: support, automation and implementations in both the private and federal sectors. Work Experience Customer Support Representative & Technical Support IntelliTime Systems Corporation - Santa Ana, CA 2012 to Present • Developed deep knowledge of the IntelliTime Virtual Timecard Interface (VTI)  • Answered how-to questions and help clients navigate a variety of tools within IntelliTime.  • Answered phone calls/emails and responds to all customer inquiries including, but not limited to documenting complaints and setting up new change orders.  • IntelliTime software Upgrades Manager.  • Diagnose software issues and engage with our Support and Engineering teams using established processes.  • Software debugging and regression.  • SQL database administrator  • Provided expert level customer support.  • Assist sales representatives in preparing and performing product demonstrations to prospective clients.  • Provide training for customer administrative staff and users.  • Managed Support voicemail. Public Records Technical Support Specialist HireRight - Irvine, CA 2010 to 2012 • Product development for over 300 products.  • Creation and execution of detailed test cases.  • Test, implement and maintain automation.  • Effectively drive and facilitate group tasks, and promote a team environment.  • Hardware certification and configuration testing.  • Performance testing and results analysis.  • Bug reproduction and regression.  • Identify, and troubleshoot software issues.  • Work closely with quality assurance (QA) and development teams for timely resolution of compatibility issues.  • Quality Control, ensuring PRD guidelines are met; team member contributions are error free and accurate.  • Perform research to acquire new knowledge necessary to perform assigned tasks, and maintain a process of technological evolution. Security Analyst I Northrop Grumman, Technical Services - Redondo Beach, CA 2009 to 2010 • Entry point of an enterprise-wide effort mandated by federal government to increase overall security for all federal employees and contractors  • Responsible for establishing 23,000 Aero Space Systems employees badges; 1200+ personally issued in accordance to Homeland Security Presidential Directive 12.  • Validate employee credentials such as Department of Defense and internal clearances  • Collected and submit electronic fingerprints, handprints and optical reading or readings into security systems for verification IT Analyst, IT II NASA Shared Services Center 2006 to 2008 Contract through CSC/Saitech)  • Maintained Kofax imaging system back-up and, department metrics database  • Trained document imaging staff on Kofax client usage and managed imaging user accounts  • Provided help desk support for system problems and network connectivity  • Decreased document processing time by 10 to 15 minutes per document by developing and implementing various automations and scripts into the workflow  • Awarded Public Service Group Achievement Award, Presented by The National Aeronautics and Space Administration  • Received Certificate of Appreciation, Presented by NASA Shared Services Center Network Infrastructure Support & Technical Support Specialist Selltis, L.L.C - Mandeville, LA 2005 to 2006 • Maintained trouble tickets and work logs of daily data communication transactions, problems and remedial actions taken, installation activities, or escalations  • Provided desk-side and remote support via Citrix and/or phone, email  • Troubleshooting Microsoft Word print template scripting and HTML templates  • Supported internal network infrastructure, desktop support (Windows XP Pro and 2000 Pro), server migration, server cloning and, new server setup  • Responsible for new company implementations: process included installing new server software, FTP applications and, setup of new users  • Provided customers with remote support after evacuating for hurricane Katrina in 2005 Applications Engineer & Technical Support Bay Technical Associates 2004 to 2005 • Trained employees and clientele on BayTech's, Global Power Management Software  • Provided help desk support for BayTech's approximately 1000 products  • Established a test bed for public and private usage, implementing all products manufactured by BayTech  • Created and maintained database of company production discrepancies and client issues  • Supports internal network (Windows 2000), desktop support (Windows XP Pro and 2000 Pro), system migration (Windows 98-2000 Pro), new system setup (XP Pro and 2000 Pro), network printing (Zebra, HP, Brother), and network connectivity  • Microsoft subject matter expert for the technical and sales staff Education AS in Liberal Arts Pearl River Community College - Poplarville, MS 2003 Skills Sql, Sql queries, Visual basic, Microsoft visual basic, Microsoft visual basic 6.0, Visual basic 6, Visual basic 6.0, Document imaging, Document management, Imaging, Remedy, Java, Microsoft windows, Microsoft office, Photoshop, Act!, Adobe photoshop, Customer Support, CSR, Customer Service Additional Information Technical Skills  Document Imaging  Document Management  Technical Writing  Ascent Capture Suite 7.5  Selltis Sales    Microsoft Windows  Microsoft Visual Basic 6.0  Microsoft Office Suite  VB & Java Script  SQL queries    Adobe Photoshop  Adobe Forms Designer  ACT!  Remedy