Engineering Technician II-III (Electrical) Engineering Technician II-III (Electrical) Engineering Technician II-III (Electrical) - Gryphon Technologies Callaway, FL Work Experience Engineering Technician II-III (Electrical) Gryphon Technologies - Panama City, FL 2019 to Present I perform one or a combination of such typical duties as: Assembling or installing equipment or parts requiring simple wiring, soldering, or connecting, Performs such tasks as replacing components and wiring circuits, Repairing simple electronic equipment, Taking test readings using common instruments such as digital multi-meters, signal generators, semiconductor testers, curve tracers, and oscilloscopes, Performs assignments that are not completely standardized or prescribed, Selects or adapts standard procedures or equipment, using fully applicable precedents, Receives initial instructions, equipment requirements, and advice from supervisor or engineer as needed, Performs recurring work independently, Performs at this level one or a combination of such typical duties as: constructing components, subunits, or simple models or adapts standard equipment, Troubleshoots and correct malfunctions. Electrician Bayline Railroad - Panama City, FL 2018 to 2019 Installs and maintains electrical wiring and equipment, such as motors, generators, air-conditioning units, electrical outlets, and lighting fixtures of railroad locomotives and cars, streetcars, and subway coaches: Measures, cuts, threads, bends, assembles, and installs conduits that connect to control panels and junction boxes, using hacksaw, pipe benders, pipe-threading tools, and other hand tools. Splices wires with knife or cutting pliers and solders connections to fixtures, outlets, and equipment. Tests circuit connections, using electrical test equipment. Installs and tests electrical equipment, such as air-conditioning, heating, and ignition systems, generator brushes, Installs and repairs headlights in locomotives and streetcars. Repairs electrical equipment, such as panel lighting, circuit breakers, junction boxes, voltage regulators, and reverse current relays. May recharge storage batteries. May rewind armatures. Network Technician Syscom Inc - Panama City, FL 2017 to 2018 I support Coordinating and hosting the Units Video Teleconferencing schedule and support and hands on troubleshooting of Computers, Switches and equipment used in those networks. Managing multiple meetings at once with Command Level personnel. Security Engineer Davidson Technologies Inc - Tyndall AFB, FL 2016 to 2017 I support a Risk Assessment team or the Validation team by authoring and maintaining security documentation such as System Security Plans, Risk Assessments, ST&E Plans, Incident Reports, POA&Ms, etc. I participate in and assist subordinate bases/commands in the DoD Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation Process (DIACAP) to include artifact generation, requirement analysis, security test and evaluation (ST&E) planning and execution, risk assessment and analysis, and development of Plans of Action and Milestones (POA&M), systems analysis and hardening strategies, incident response and policy analysis, trusted product evaluation and IA assessments. I am familiar with both process and network equipment used throughout ICS applications and installation techniques Understanding of IP networking, networking protocols, and security-related technologies with respect to information assurance I have a Working knowledge of network security concepts and best practices, operating system hardening, network device hardening, and experience with network security assessments with respect to common vulnerabilities associated with ICS. I am also familiar with FISMA, NIST 800 series, Federal RMF and have the ability to articulate such guidelines, policy and processes to supported command staff. IT Specialist ANC Research & Development, LLC - Tyndall AFB, FL 2013 to 2016 601st Air and Space Operations Center. Provide highly complex technical support in areas such as network research, design, development, testing, installation, and maintenance. Install, configure, troubleshoot, and repair network equipment to include routers, and switches on both the non-secure internet protocol router network (NIPRNet), and secure internet protocol router network (SIPRNet). Fabricate, install, terminate, and test cat 5e, 6 and fiber optic cable. Operate and configure for operation cryptographic equipment KG-175 (TACLANE). Work with customer specific data linking systems (e.g. RTAP, JRE, ADSI) Manage and maintain computer and network systems for the 601 Air Operation Center and AFNORTH Continental region, supporting Homeland Security's air defense and tactical warning. Systems include LINUX based Remote Tactical Air Picture (RTAP), Air Defense Systems Integrator (ADSI), Joint Range Extension (JRE) and Global Broadcast System (GBS).Develop technical solutions for complicated classified and non-classified Data Links project requirements, including computer systems, cabling, taclanes, hardware and software configurations Led a team of six technicians in sustaining systems replete with routers, switches, fiber optic cabling, classified equipment and materials. Electrician Bayline Railroad - Panama City, FL 2012 to 2013 Installs and maintains electrical wiring and equipment, such as motors, generators, air-conditioning units, electrical outlets, and lighting fixtures of railroad locomotives and cars, streetcars, and subway coaches: Measures, cuts, threads, bends, assembles, and installs conduits that connect to control panels and junction boxes, using hacksaw, pipe benders, pipe-threading tools, and other hand tools. Splices wires with knife or cutting pliers and solders connections to fixtures, outlets, and equipment. Tests circuit connections, using electrical test equipment. Installs and tests electrical equipment, such as air-conditioning, heating, and ignition systems, generator brushes, Installs and repairs headlights in locomotives and streetcars. Repairs electrical equipment, such as panel lighting, circuit breakers, junction boxes, voltage regulators, and reverse current relays. May recharge storage batteries. May rewind armatures. Active Guard Reserve (AGR) Air and Space Operations Center 2008 to 2013 with 101st Air Operations Group  Network Administrator/Cyber Transport (3D172/3C271)  Manage three independent classified network infrastructures and communication functions, overseeing $5.1M worth of equipment. Direct boundary protection, Intrusion Detection and Information Assurance policy in accordance with Department of Defense and Air Force directives. Perform network management, control, administration, and information protection within the Air & Space Operations Center. Fabricate, install, terminate, test and troubleshoot cat 6 and fiber optic cable. Install, configure, and maintain functional system components. Conduct connectivity testing to ensure continuing operability, provides ongoing optimization and problem-solving support, and recover systems from malfunctions and security intrusion. Operate and configure for operation cryptographic equipment (TACLANE, KG-95). Configure and administer Cisco switches (3750, 4500, 6500). Systems Administrator for Cisco ACS, Cisco Works, Adonis DNS, SMTP Gateway and solarwinds. Helpdesk and Air Surveillance Technician Air and Space Operations Center 2001 to 2008 • Supervised 7 technicians and 2 civilians in support of Operation Noble Eagle and NORAD/AFNORTH Homeland Defense and NORAD/AFNORTH-related assigned mission, including the monitoring and tracking of 12 intercept fighter wings, 52 Joint FAA/military radar sits, and two Air Defense Sectors  • Serve as a member of the CONR Battle Staff and is responsible for operating and maintaining all C4-related systems for the Combined Forces Air Component (CFACC) and the Chief of Combat Operations (CCO) in support of Operation NOBLE EAGLE, Homeland Defense  • Monitor AVTEC radio communication system during active air defense intercepts of unknown/suspect aircraft, provides fighter intercept status to the CFACC and CCO in support of Operation Noble Eagle and Homeland Defense initiatives Analyst, Mechanical/Electrical ARINC - Panama City, FL 2000 to 2001 Assisted in implementing reports on new equipment for the navy anti mine counters mine programs. (AMCM). Electronic Integrated Systems Technician 113th D.C. Air National Guard - Washington, DC 1998 to 2000 D.C.  Tested, troubleshot, repaired and operationally checked electrical and electronic systems on all the f-16 aircraft. Railroad Electrician Amtrak - Washington, DC 1998 to 1999 Inspected railroad cars and locomotives to ensure they meet federal railroad regulations, also troubleshoot and completed repairs if required on lighting, electrical doors, fans, air conditioning, heaters with voltages varying from 480 to 72 volts AC and DC. Electrical/Environmental Technician 113th D.C. Air National Guard - Washington, DC 1996 to 1998 D.C.  Inspected, troubleshot, installed, and maintained aircraft power and air distribution systems on the F-16. Engineering Technician II DynCorp Corporation - Lexington Park, MD 1994 to 1996 Responsible for the development, test, calibration, installation, and maintenance and servicing of airborne test systems. Fabricated wire harnesses and maintained supply parts for projects. Communication Line Chief U.S. Army - Schofield Barracks, HI 1989 to 1994 Served as a communications advisor to an organization with 75 individuals and 18 radio systems. Trained operators in the use of single and multichannel radio operation. Communication Line Chief U.S. Marine Corps - Schofield Barracks, HI 1983 to 1988 Maintained various EA6B aircraft communication, navigation, electrical and radar systems. Education Associates in Science in Applied Trades in Active Secret Hawaii Pacific University Skills Cisco, Solarwinds, Visio, Splicing, Ms visio Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: e-4 Assessments Basic Maintenance and Repair — Highly Proficient August 2019 Performing basic repairs and maintenance for apartment complexes, office buildings, and other facilities. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/rfrzmrw4yywey5bw Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.