DIRECTOR - Shared Technologies DIRECTOR - Shared Technologies DIRECTOR - CoverMyMeds Dublin, OH Strategic and results driven leader offering over 17 years of experience and success in maximizing growth and future potential of technical teams and leaders, managing and executing projects to a budget, building and growing compliance and security capabilities, and delivering exceptional services & support. Core competencies include:    ? Corporate & Technology Strategy Team Member  ? ITIL Based Operations, Application Management & Governance  ? Application Ownership & Support  ? Agile Operations for Technology Teams  ? Omni Channel Strategy  ? Globalized Infrastructure & Mobile Initiatives  ? Technical & Non-Technical Communication  ? Relationship / Vendor Management  ? Business Analytics  ? IT Security Strategy, Implementation, and Best Practices  ? Service Organization & Management Strategy and Focus  ? Budget & Project Management  ? Infrastructure Virtualization  ? Leadership Training and Development  ? Vendor & Contract Negotiations  ? Asset Management, Procurement, Fulfillment, & Reporting  ? Disaster Recovery / Data Center Relocation  ? Corporate Philanthropy & Community Support Work Experience DIRECTOR - Shared Technologies CoverMyMeds - Columbus, OH June 2018 to Present Leader of the IT Shared Technologies organization for CoverMyMeds which included security, infrastructure, operations, and services teams.  ? Business Unit Leader for Centralized IT  ? Moved Shared Tech to an Agile Organization  ? Data Center Strategy and Redesign  ? Lead Business Recruiter for Leadership Positions  ? Strategic Security, Infrastructure, & Operations Roadmaps  ? CMM Representative for Technology Leadership Group for RxTS Division for McKesson  ? Cloud Strategy & Migration  ? Network, Systems, Storage, DBA, & Security Strategy  ? IT & Cloud security procedures and standa  Key Projects and Achievements  ? Leader of the Shared Technologies business unit which handled all centralized technology for CoverMyMeds.  ? First member from CoverMyMeds to join the McKesson RxTS Leadership team comprised of other CIO's from different organizations  ? Created the strategy and executed the movement to an agile organization for the Shared Technologies team  ? Brokered multiple strategic technology decisions to enable solutions, platforms, and resources to remain independent of McKesson(owner) to ensure speed and agility for an organization that releases 30 technology changes a day  ? Implemented multi-year roadmaps, a technology vision tied to our company initiatives, and team restructure to help enable a strong data program.  ? Managed a $26MM budget for CoverMyMeds and implemented monthly focused reviews with Finance to ensure we kept to our financial goals.  ? Participant in multiple Communities of Practice to ensure visibility across teams of all strategic initiatives  ? Currently working on creating a mobile workforce platform for McKesson RxTS to enable remote work across multiple organizations which includes change management for leadership, HR, and employee behavior to maximize positive outcomes. DIRECTOR - IT Security & Technical Services American Signature Inc - Columbus, OH 2017 to 2018 Leader of the IT security, infrastructure, operations, and services teams for American Signature Inc. which includes Value City Furniture stores. The scope of the position includes the following areas  ? Organizational Leadership Committee  ? Strategic Security & Infrastructure Roadmaps  ? Network Roadmap and Refresh (Store & Corporate)  ? Store and Corporate IT Support & Services  ? Cloud infrastructure and architecture  ? Service Management & KPI Reporting  ? Team and Organizational Assessment for Leadership  ? Created & Lead Organizational Security Advisory Board  ? IT RFP Documentation Creation and Standards  ? Growth & Development of Leaders & Team Members  ? Network, Systems, Storage, DBA, & Security Strategy  ? IT & Cloud security procedures and standards    Key Projects and Achievements  ? Member of the Organizational Leadership team which creates and ensures implementation of the corporate strategy.  ? Created the Security Review Board that is comprised of key business leaders (CFO, CIO, CLO, CHRO). The focus of the group is to understand, support and implement a security platform built on best practices, risk management, incident review procedures and a roadmap to future compliance.  ? Created an Architectural Review Board to focus on the strategic role the infrastructure team plays in the IT roadmap. Focus is on strategic opportunities and platforms, technical standards and support, customer engagement and cross functional work.  ? Implemented a coaching review platform for team leaders. Program is focused on our strategic values and how they can guide each associate to success.  ? Created a security plan, posture, and roadmap that are the foundation on how our organization is handling all aspects of IT risk and security.  ? Created an IT Assessment for the CIO to help create a more streamlined and project focused organization.  ? Coached and managed security and infrastructure teams to create their first strategic roadmap.  ? Guided the team to a network refresh RFP that save $2.4M over 4 years while increasing the network footprint, tools, capabilities, and actionable data for our business partners.  ? Helped the team create and follow governance standards around monitoring and alerting, implementation, documentation and procedures to ensure the health, standards, redundancy and security of our systems.  ? Resolved multiple major problems that have been reoccurring by guiding the IT team through incident management and root cause analysis processes.  ? Created Strategic IT dashboards to help monitor, alert, and manage all key operational aspects of our IT Services. These dashboards have been placed around our office for all to understand our environments health and incidents in real time.  ? Lead the IT technical team to create a cloud infrastructure standard architecture and security policies. DIRECTOR - IT Technical Services (Infrastructure, Operations, & Security) The Limited - New Albany, OH 2014 to 2016 Leader of the IT infrastructure, operations, and security teams for the iconic Limited stores brand. The scope of the position included leading the team in the following strategic areas.  ? Operational Committee Member for Corporate Strategy  ? Strategic Infrastructure & Security Roadmaps  ? Vendor Management & Secure SaaS Integrations  ? Network Technologies (Store & Corporate)  ? Store and Corporate IT Support  ? Endpoint Engineering (PC, Mac, Mobile, VDI)  ? Project Management  ? IT Operations & Continuous Improvement  ? Store & Office IT Fulfillment  ? Application Ownership & Support  ? IT Security Strategy & Best Practices  ? Systems, Storage & DBA Strategy & Support    Key Projects and Achievements  ? Member of the Organizational Operations Committee which helps create and implement the corporate strategy.  ? Created the first multi-year strategic plans for Infrastructure, Operations, and IT Security for the Limited Stores IT organization. This strategy focuses on agile methodologies to decrease project timelines and increase the value provided to the organization.  ? Lead an IT Service Management initiative that included many key operational areas. These areas of focus included project, change, incident, request, and problem management. This operational and customer service-oriented initiative included a consolidation of tools, reduction of operational spend, and a successful goal of decreasing the average age and number of open incidents.  ? Implemented pro-active support mentality our networking, server, storage, DB, and endpoint environments using monitoring using tools, processes, reports, alerts, and procedures to increase visibility and decrease problem response times by 30%.  ? IT security strategy included the implementation of tools and technologies focused on enabling the following goals: secure information encryption or removal, increased visibility, enhanced detection, incident correlation, and automated security actions based on the threat level.  ? Project Owner for all Technology for our recent "Store of the Future" implementation. This cross-channel project included the creation of four new technologies, mobile applications and interactive touchpoints in our store. The team was able to take the initial design created by an external firm and deliver the project at 50% of their estimated cost in 16 weeks due to our agile approach. This project included many new technologies, processes, core store operational changes, and has helped increase traffic to this store location.  ? Lead our IT Procurement initiative and was able to reduce our store operational expense by almost 30%.  ? Project Owner and Manager for a new store portal, which enabled Reserve Online, Ready in Store campaign. This project was completed in 12 weeks and was a key enabler for the largest new source of revenue growth for the organization in 2015.  ? Created a Vendor Management program. This program was used to manage our vendor relationships and reinforce good partnership by expanding business relationships when opportunities arise. The program was utilized during our negotiations to purchase of a new ERP system, which came in under budget, with an increased scope, and our discount was on par with Fortune 500 sized organizations.  ? Owner and implementer of the corporate BYOD program. 35% of all approved mobile associates have now enrolled in the program, saving on average of 40% operational cost per month, per individual.  ? Managed a $1M capital budget and $1M operational budget combined for the complete Tech Services team.  ? HR partnership to help train the "Future Limited Leaders" as well as help develop our corporate collaboration and communication strategy.  ? Owner and Project Manager for the following successful project implementations. Store Portal & Intranet Implementations (SharePoint), Service Management toolset, Enterprise Storage Upgrade, Security & Monitoring toolsets, Store Wireless, Vendor Management Program, BYOD program, and New Store and Corporate Firewalls enabling HA for those environments.  ? Member of the Philanthropy committee and have been in charge of numerous corporate events staged to raise money for local charities. DIRECTOR Abercrombie & Fitch - New Albany, OH 2012 to 2014 Promoted to lead all endpoint solutions areas including budget, fulfillment, software, hardware, and project management for over 1100 stores in 22 countries, 3,000 employees in 17 countries, and 5 distribution centers in 3 countries. The scope of the position covered the following team direction, design, installation, engineering, implementation, support, and training for:  ? Store and Corporate IT Support  ? Endpoint Engineering (PC, Mac, Mobile, VDI)  ? Asset Management (Stores & Office)  ? Project Management  ? Store & Office IT Fulfillment  ? Strategic Operational Enhancements    Key Projects and Achievements  ? Consolidated teams to 3 manager leads whose teams consisted of over 30 internal associates and 20+ strategic vendor accounts. Support covers over 10,000 hardware devices and 300 software titles.  ? Lead IT operations teams that included all corporate and store L1 & L2 support teams. Focused on a continuous improvement methodology and was able to take the average age of an open ticket in stores from 9 days to under 3 days.  ? Developed and focused on IT and business visibility to IT service metrics. Created and maintained numerous dashboards and meetings with IT and business partners focused on SLA's and opportunities to improve value provided.  ? Developed and managed capital budgets up to $5 million and operational budgets over $4 million annually.  ? Project manager for our virtual desktop implementation. This project team consisted of over 15 members from the network, server, security, and endpoint solutions teams. Project came in under budget with a 20% scope creep after streamlining our architecture and rollout.  ? Helped lead an IT wide productivity analysis and review of hardware and software spend. Project was able to consolidate spend from 20+ vendors to 5 strategic partners and have an annual cost savings of around 15%.  ? IT lead on the Omni Channel Initiative. Helped coordinate associates from 6 different departments to choose a device, peripherals, support program, and RFP that helped select our final strategic partner for lifecycle management of the devices. Program is projected to increase in store sales by over $10MM annually.  ? IT consultant on our Data Center relocation from Charlotte to New Jersey, Amsterdam, and Hong Kong.  ? Asset Management (ServiceNow) implementation to manage all 10,000 hardware device and 300+ software titles.  ? Store print management transition to a new partner that yielded a 10% cost decrease, included a 5 year retirement cycle, and a multifunction device that helped to drive new HR processes. SENIOR MANAGER - IT CUSTOMER SERVICE Abercrombie & Fitch - New Albany, OH 2009 to 2012 Promoted to manage all L1 and L2 support, budget, fulfillment, software, and hardware for over global stores and corporate offices. The scope of the position covered the IT areas:  ? 24x7 Store & Office Help Desks  ? Store & Office Fulfillment  ? Asset Management: HW & SW  ? Store & Office IT Hardware  ? Store & Office Escalated Support (L2)  ? Application Systems Support  ? College Recruitment  ? Executive Reporting    Key Projects and Achievements  ? Managed a team that consisted of over 30 internal associates, 20 vendor associates, and 6 managers/leads. Support covers over 10,000 hardware devices and 300 software titles.  ? Developed and managed capital budgets up to $10 million and operational budgets over $2 million annually.  ? Saved over $500,000 through vendor negotiations during out 2012 budget cycle. This included all store and PC desktop retirements, software maintenance, and vendor contracts.  ? Developed, directed, and implemented a mobile solution for the company in 3 months. Saved over $10,000 in vendor fees negotiating a free trial to production solution development and installation, which helped us to come in under our $25,000 budget, while still covering 850 devices running iOS, Android, and Windows mobile.  ? Helped drive down operations cost by 5% on average by renegotiating maintenance contracts with software vendors to an average of 13%.  ? Started a Top Issues problem management initiative and managed the store top issues initiative. The goal was to improve support of the business by reaching out to key associates and listening to their top concerns. This initiative helped drive down our average ticket age and improve customer satisfaction in our stores by over 20%.  ? Managed and implemented numerous expansive projects such as laptop encryption, Windows 7 upgrade, Mac Snow Leopard upgrade, Microsoft Office 2007 upgrade, and Mobility Management.  ? Spokesmen for IT Staff Council. This group consisted of IT employees from all departments that met twice a month and go over critical issues and concerns in IT and come up with solutions for these topics. I would then meet with the CIO to discuss topics and solutions and help implement changes involved.  ? Managed Application Support team during a difficult transition. This included management over key production applications such as email, content management, and IT monitoring tools.  ? Manage and consult with a printer support vendor for the central office and distribution center. Their responsibilities include support, upgrades, escalations, moves, and spend from an IT perspective. MANAGER - IT Operations Abercrombie & Fitch - New Albany, OH 2007 to 2009 Managed the help desk and LAN teams whose scope included annual budget creation and implementation, desktop engineering, management, and strategic planning, desktop hardware and software support, maintenance, and contract negotiations, and asset management for our office and distribution centers.  ? This team consisted of more than 20 individuals and an annual capital budget of $4 million and $1.5 million in operating expenses.  ? Ran a project to bring the office help desk back in house with a save of $500K per year. Completed the transition in 2 months while training a new staff with no prior IT experience or background.  ? Budgeted, implemented, and supported a Macintosh computer management tool due to our expanding Mac infrastructure. This project was completed 1 month early and under budget. INTERN, TECH, ANALYST, LEAD - IT Operations Abercrombie & Fitch - New Albany, OH 2002 to 2007 Hired as an intern and moved up to manage all Windows desktop support for corporate offices and distribution centers. This team of 7 associates included a scope of work including all hardware and software support, management, upgrades, budgets, and vendor negotiations. CUSTOMER SERVICE TEMP - Customer Service Ashland Chemical / Kelly Services - Dublin, OH 2001 to 2002 Education Bachelor's Degree in Management Information Systems in Management Information Systems MIAMI UNIVERSITY - Oxford, OH 1997 to 2001 Skills Budget, Training, Strategic Planning, Leadership Development, Agile, Executive Management, Vendor Management, Vendor Relationships, Management