Police Officer Police Officer Police Officer Charlotte, NC Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Police Officer City of Charlotte June 2018 to February 2019 • Assist citizens by supplying information or advice, serves warrants and makes arrests.  • Testifies in court.  • Provides police escorts, directs traffic.  • Investigates automobile accidents.  • Reports unsafe conditions existing in the street or other public facilities.  • Maintains records and prepares detail reports.  • May be assigned to Investigations or Patrol. Security Contractor Self Employed - Charlotte, NC November 2017 to February 2018 • Maintain order, protect life and property by enforcing local, State, or Federal laws.  • Guard, patrol, or monitor premises to prevent theft, violence, or infractions of rules.  • Inspect conditions of locks, window bars, grills, doors, and gates at facilities to ensure security.  • Record information, and keep daily logs of activities.  • Use weapons, handcuffs, and physical force to maintain discipline and order.  • Guard facility entrances to screen visitors. IT Assistant, Volunteer Mecklenburg County July 2014 to November 2014 • Provide user level technical support for end users, computers and printers.  • Assist with end user system updates and monitoring.  • Provide high degree of professionalism and end user satisfaction and work well with others.  • Assist with research of new technologies and software that might be beneficial. IT Consultant Self Employed October 2012 to July 2014 • Developed and executed the Life Cycle Program replacement plan.  • Develop and maintain a comprehensive security contingency plan for system disaster recovery.  • Provide input for the operating budget to fund existing and future IT requirements.  • Supervised the relocation and installation of hardware and software for multiple locations. Information Systems Analyst United States Army September 1999 to October 2012 • Developed system architecture diagrams and implemented processes for Information Technology.  • Maintained systems, 97% up to date with industry standards.  • Minimized overall cost of man hours, maximizing start-up time, for new users, improving productivity.  • Directed the repairs and maintenance of over 1000 desktops and laptops.  • Built, configured and managed Share Point sites for multiple locations.  • Develop procedures for quality assurance testing and provided customer service support.  • Build and configured SQL servers for Image Site, GIS, and Auto-CAD servers.  • Managed access control lists of network routers and switches.  • Manage the construction and deployment of training material in digital format.  • Manage the daily operational and technical activities within the Information Technology Department.  • Assist in resource planning, ensuring success in the use of, tools, and technology to achieve goals  • Build package software deliveries and develop installation scripts for information systems.  • Develop a multiple location backup plan to ensure timely recovery of data.    daosifu@gmail.com 609-529-4851 Education None in Global Business Central Piedmont Community College - Charlotte, NC January 2014 to Present Certificate in Computer Forensics Penn Foster Career School - Foster, PA March 2013 to Present Mecklenburg Police Academy June 2018 to November 2018 Music and Entertainment Management Institute of Audio Research September 2016 to June 2017 Audio Engineering SAE Institute September 2015 to May 2016 Real Estate Salesman Course NY Real Estate Institute October 2012 to December 2012 Certified Information Systems Security Professional U.S. Army Signal School May 1999 to March 2009 Diploma in Information Systems Operator Augusta Technical College October 2005 to December 2005 Skills Linux (10+ years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), PBX (3 years), problem solving (10+ years), Word, Cash Handling, Security, Microsoft Word, Communications Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: SFC Certifications/Licenses Security Guard Assessments First Aid Skills — Highly Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to identify treatments for common medical emergencies. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/0oghnbygo0ch-ccy Verbal Communication — Highly Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to effectively convey information when speaking. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/g0w8gsnx-ny7qpnv Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.