Specialist – Sys/Data Security Risk & Process Management - Chief Technology Organization Specialist – Sys/Data <span class="hl">Security</span> Risk &amp; Process Management - Chief Technology Organization Specialist – Sys/Data Security Risk & Process Management - Chief Technology Organization Charlotte, NC ? UNC Charlotte - Corporate Mentor for NorthState College of Computing and Informatics Mentorship Program for undergraduate students. Prepares computer science student by possessing a strong interest and dedication to supporting women in computing. Teach and prepare student for career development and advancement.  ? Tenured Project Manager / IT BSC-BA / Data Analytic with excellent organizational and Change Management skills with ability to work under stress and multi tasking scenario in a matrixed environment.  ? Responsible for leading, planning, implementation and managing/supervising a project.  ? Background in cultivating and applying an understanding of methodologies, policies, standards, and internal and external controls and present to team members and cross-divisional management, including Senior Management.  ? Ensured security, standards/policies were met and adhered to within the enterprise.  ? Risk Assssment/Cybersecurity Project Management with Compliance & Risk/Fraud Detection & Infrastructure Technical Project Manager/Portfolio & Change Management experience/3rd Party Vendor Management/ IT Analyst/BA/BSC/Middleware/Data Analysis experience. Work Experience Specialist – Sys/Data Security Risk & Process Management - Chief Technology Organization Bank of America - Charlotte, NC June 2019 to July 2019 Develops and prepares risk assessments for Cloud IaaS and PaaS deployments.  Responsibilities include being a contributor in auditing to explain the risk assessment process to auditors and prepare materials for audit review. Aggregate Technical Lead Sr. IT Business Analyst-Info Security Technologies TIAA September 2018 to June 2019 Threat Management Solutions - Cybersecurity  Reports to Lead Info Security Manager & Director, Sr. Lead InfoSec Manager  ? Performs feasibility analysis, scopes projects, and works with the project team to prioritize deliverables.  ? Partner with Security Engineering and DevOps teams to deliver reporting and metrics.  ? Provides analytic support by coordinating data extraction from various databases and data interpretation.  ? Works with Security Engineering teams to deploy Endpoint agent. Coordinates with desktop teams and tracks the deployment progress.  ? Coordinate cross team testing and troubleshooting of endpoint devices with enterprise level agents. Team Lead Cyber Security Assessment Data Analyst IV BANK OF AMERICA April 2018 to August 2018 GTO/GIS/Business Process Cyber Assessment (BPCA)  Reports directly to the Sr. EVP of GIS/BPCA.  Incumbent manages the day-to-day activities of the Cyber Assessment Teams' GIS Risk Assessments for China/Asia/LATAM and various other countries.  Responsibilities include but are not limited to:  ? Drive end to end assessments  ? Supervise Assessment Analysts  ? Direct activities of analysts supporting assessments  ? Confirm dimensions: process, people, technology and 3rd Parties to enable critical service under assessment  ? Work with stakeholders and virtual task force to drive key information  ? Gathers raw data for cyber risk assessments based upon various dimensions: people, process, technology & 3rd party to determine various details of the infrastructure for users across the enterprise.  ? Provide updates on assessments and progress to senior& executive management    Required Skills: Project Management, technical acumen, business processes / playbook experience / ability to perform analysis of data and provide detailed reports outlining variances and other distinct criteria that would reflect possible areas for further critical analysis. Detailed oriented / experience identifying and remediating risk, experience with CMMI and process design. Business Analyst / Business Systems Consultant Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC May 2017 to August 2017 Primary responsibility is to preform pre-review by advising of recommendations and/or Approval of Policy Exceptions that require CTO Approval for Exceptions within the entire Wholesale LOB for the enterprise. Update team and senior mgmt. with any change status and results.  ? Works with Resources that lead the following areas within the Wholesale LOB:  ? Line of Business Relationship Team Lead Director  ? Risk & Fraud Detection Team Director to call out exceptions that point towards suspicious activity in access/login and various other activity that to determine potential risk located in specialized networks and apps within client environment. Incumbent works with specific resources in providing reports that identify risk/fraudulent activity for senior management review and resolution.  ? Access Management Director - works with principals to assist in the Wholesale LOB portfolio of its financial assets for the Wealth Technology group, seeking to identify risks.  ? Access Control Exceptions Director  ? Business Continuity Planning Director  ? Enterprise Application Security Program/EASP related exceptions  ? Ensure 3rd Party Vendor add-ons were compliant and accurate for the Wholesale LOBs Risk Assessment.  ? Also acts as liaison between client area and technical organization by planning, conducting, and directing the analysis of highly complex business problems to be solved with data analytics and automated systems utilizing development guidelines for scrubbing data to determine risk.  ? Provides technical assistance in auditing, identifying, evaluating, and developing systems and procedures that are cost effective and meet business requirements.  ? By working with user groups incumbent is able to provide training, resolve questions, assess user needs, and recommend changes. Prepares specifications for system changes and recommends and initiates systems testing.  ? Acts as an internal consultant within technology and business groups by using quality tools and process definition/improvement to re-engineer technical processes for greater efficiencies for internal auditing.  ? Provides direction and guidance to less experienced staff.  ? Utilizes technology protocols that employ business systems data analytics for analysis and/or design.  ? Through working with Developers incumbent employed knowledge of SDLC and application development  and change management practices. Business Systems Consultant Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC February 2016 to December 2016 Validation Framework BSC Technical Liaison for Risk/Compliance Mitigation & Middleware.  ? Responsible for storing compliance/patching/OS document data for all servers/HW across the enterprise. In creating a single source Reporting Solution that will update the teams with current status of hardware patching/OS status for Middleware. BSC must be able to accurately define and depict with mock-up visuals to reflect the type of inquiry that Developers design the charting features of the data design.  ? Works with Developers in accessing initial feasibility development studies for SDLC protocol and requirements gathering to the post phases of maintenance for completed Middleware application(s), i.e., JBOSS, Apache, TomCat, and various other middleware apps that are utilized within the enterprise.  ? Present reporting to management referencing possible attacks and vulnerabilities that existed offering consultation service in change and portfolio management for both in-house and client portfolio management of various funds.  ? Assist in developing the processes, policies and tools designed to gather and analyze data in portfolio management. Assist in BRD confirmation and gathering required.  ? Gather, compile relevant data and information to provide senior management with security options to avoid loss of revenue streams in portfolio management via cyber fraud data analysis protocols. In addition, all 3rd Party Vendors were reviewed for licensing compliance. Responsible to review Change Schedule (CS) for conflicts. Cyber Security, Project & Product Manager Time Warner Cable - Charlotte, NC March 2015 to October 2015 Project Manager for Cyber Security Department responsible for collaborating and managing various levels of Engineers who monitor Fortune 100 corporations cloud based cyber presence for threat management/Risk Assessment and Compliance.  ? The Project Manager's role is to guide the successful deployment of tools that ensure the confidentiality, availability and integrity of in-house information systems, data analytics, document management and processes across the enterprise. Same is achieved by participating as the project lead on deployments and transitioning the deployments to the respective operations team successfully without impacting the business' ability to perform its role. The position also leads BAU updates and upgrades by either tracking or participating in those activities.  ? Responsible for the planning/execution to standup/refresh 6 data centers (4 US based/2 London based) to commission & decommission locations in Cybersecurity space comprising internal and external clients threat reporting for 3rd Party Vendor Assessment/Management for the US & London based data centers. Weekly calls & emergency meetings (when necessary) would be held to ensure risk mitigation was sound confirming via data analytics: PCI/Vulnerabilities/ IT Auditing & Compliance  ? Present reporting to management referencing existing and possible threat attacks and vulnerabilities. Also assist in developing strategies to eliminate the escalation of repeat occurrences.  ? Champion products that would enable the Cybersecurity/Compliance and IT Auditing space to be ahead of the need for new strategies. Technical Project Manager 4 Wells Fargo September 2013 to March 2015 For Entire Wholesale LOB & Tempe & CIC Data Centers)  Technical Project Manager for SDT Deployment Coordination/Infrastructure Solutions(ISM)/Enterprise Projects - LOB Liaison for Hardware Refresh Projects - Charlotte, NC  ? The Technical Project Manager for Deployment Coordination, worked specifically with Data Centers with Primary and Secondary responsibility for the enterprise wide hardware refresh and migration projects working on IT Auditing and replacement of the Legacy NES6500 cross-functional/divisional/LOBs infrastructure replacing CISCO 6509s most particularly in Tempe, AZ and the CIC, Charlotte, NC Technical data centers. Directed and monitored all activities for medium to large, medium to high risk, major technology-based projects from initiation to delivery.  * Relationship Manager responsible for planning, directing, and monitoring activities for infrastructure and applications being migrated off all end of life Cisco 6500 routers and switches in Wells Fargo's core, regional  * Manages and coordinates all activities necessary to control, track and audit Changes in the environment.    Technical Project Manager 4 (For Entire Wholesale LOB)  Technical Project Manager for SDT Deployment Coordination/Infrastructure Solutions(ISM)/Enterprise Projects  ? Contact with the LOBs to determine whether there are servers in their environment that require patching remediation is essential. This effort is implemented for both Windows and Unix environments (domestic and international groups as well). Tech Project Manager consistently builds relationships with sponsoring LOB executives and different business units within the Enterprise.  ? Incumbent possesses a broad understanding of project life cycle and is able to provide senior level management and business partners with detailed analysis of the key objectives.  ? Incumbent coordinates and works in a collaborative effort with various LOBs, particularly Wholesale and their technical resources for the effective internal auditing of remediation and patch coordination activities for assets that are in scope for 40,000+ servers for possible remediation.  ? Responsible for handling Change Management Requests & Limited Portfolio Management for Wholesale LOB (the largest LOB within the Enterprise); initiating and approving the CRs following the established processes as the changes are made, while updating and notifying all essential business partners and Senior Management including the LOBs. Perform Change related activities documented in the CR to ensure the Change is implemented according to plan. Document closure activities in the CR, follow-up with documentation to all LOBs impacted and submit for Compliance Review.  ? Holds both the business and technology teams accountable. Works with senior level executives in Live Meeting environments reporting/summarizing objectives through the use of the use of Microsoft Suite of Products, most particularly, PowerPoint, Excel and SharePoint. Lead Product/Project Manager on Particular Vendor Tools/ Business Systems Analyst/ Systems Engineer Wells Fargo May 2011 to January 2012 Effectively managed the tracking of purchases, deployment, maintenance, utilization, harvesting and disposal of software applications across the enterprise ensuring proper licensing practices are maintained through Change Management utilized in house tools for LOB discovery documentation and presentations.  ? Delivery of accurate IT Auditing Protocol/software asset management data and documentation for internal customers and all IBM Products within the Division/LOB utilizing accounting utilities and protocols; general ledgers; reconciliation; variance checks, etc for all IBM Products and tools utilized in the LOB. Ensured smooth integration between data sources/resources within the Enterprise. Technical Analyst MI Source July 2006 to May 2011 Technical Analyst The Food Lion Corporation - Salisbury, NC July 2006 to September 2007 MI Source - Charlotte, NC - Project Manager/Technical Analyst  ? Position requires the ability to serve as Senior Client Services Analyst and/or Project Manager and Network Administrator Assistant as well as utilize Change Management skill set for selected IT initiatives within major corporations (Financial/Legal/Medical & Manufacturing) within the Charlotte Metro Area.  ? Team Lead for project and asset management for Fortune 500 clients: compiled data, provided detailed analysis of same, generate report to justify and ensure data was in alignment with tools that were procured for divisional usage in physical and virtual environments for various remote sites across the enterprises global networks. Created a dedicated repository database system for multiple client sites which reflected data analysis findings from scrubbed data that included determining assets/inventory/licensing and more- research variances and vet discovery.  ? Analyzed data and consulted with clients on areas where an effective ROI can be achieved. Evaluated new software.  ? Initiated Purchase Order Requisitions and Approvals of same within a 25K budget for each division.  ? Additionally, responsible for providing a high level of technical and/or project and change management expertise regarding tracking, conversion, installation, maintenance and support of hardware and software, problem management, asset/lease management, and procurement. Education Ph. D. in Economics New Jersey City University 2015 Skills Active Directory (Less than 1 year), Altiris (Less than 1 year), audit (1 year), auditing (3 years), Citrix (Less than 1 year), Clarify (Less than 1 year), Helix (Less than 1 year), IaaS (Less than 1 year), iManage (Less than 1 year), JIRA (Less than 1 year), Microsoft Office (Less than 1 year), MICROSOFT SHAREPOINT (1 year), MS OFFICE (Less than 1 year), PaaS (Less than 1 year), Peregrine (Less than 1 year), Process Management (Less than 1 year), Risk Assessment. (Less than 1 year), Security (2 years), SharePoint. (1 year), Unix (1 year), Risk Management, Governance Additional Information Technical Skills:  Microsoft Office Suite of Products (MS Suite of Products); SharePoint Administration; Cybersecurity Tools: Archer; Tripwire; TABLEAU, JIRA, ITSM, iManage; utilized PAC2000 in all Wells Fargo roles, DMAN, LANCentral, WANDA, Market Data, Monsoon, Active Directory, SMS, Peregrine & Altiris Products, Remedy, Citrix, Clarify, Operating Systems: UNIX, Windows, ServiceNow, Helix, FireEye NX/EX    BANK OF AMERICA (SkillStorm) June 2019 -  Specialist - Sys/Data Security  Risk & Process Management - Chief Technology Organization  Reports to Sr.Vice President - Business Control Manager, Risk & Process Management  ? Develops and prepares risk assessments for Cloud IaaS and PaaS deployments.  ? Responsibilities include being a contributor in auditing to explain the risk assessment process to auditors and prepare materials for audit review.