IT SECURITY Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">SECURITY</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Senior Operations Professional Westerville, OH Work Experience IT SECURITY Analyst State of Ohio - Columbus, OH September 2018 to Present Senior Operations Professional IBM India - Chennai, Tamil Nadu May 2015 to September 2015 Chennai, India    • Successfully completed projects for Michelin & IGA Antivirus security projects.  • Is responsible for monitoring and controlling the performance and status of security safeguards  • Responsible for operating and maintaining Symantec Endpoint Security Manager  • Worked with Symantec 11.x & 12.1.x versions  • Conducts assessments and reports vulnerabilities; monitors their ongoing management with the operations teams  • Change management & product trouble shooting.  • Created SOP documents and runbooks  • L3 Support for the AV setup administration & management.  • Handling P1 & P2 incidents primarily and mentoring the team on resolving other incidents  • Reviewing the Health status of the AV setup for the daily updates, functionality of the AV consoles & servers.  • Upgrade and software patching on endpoints for the security products installed on them.  • Working with the vendor contact on new features and products that could be installed in the organization for security.  • Reviewing the environment for its policies and components setup and suggested optimization of the AV setup wherever possible.  • Worked with a team of 8 members.  • Worked in IBM internal mail security team.  • Analysing and detecting suspicious mails. Senior Analyst - Network and Information Security HCL Technologies - Chennai, Tamil Nadu June 2012 to May 2015 Global Security Operations Center  A shared services division of HCL Providing Endpoint and Perimeter security solutions to customer environments.    • Involves day to day Security monitoring, troubleshooting, Implementation and migration plans for existing and upcoming projects etc.  • Successfully completed projects for Honda Motor Europe, Biomeriuex  • Utilized Symantec Endpoint Protection, Symantec 11.x & 12.x  • Maintaining Security Compliance (>=95).  • Product troubleshooting  • Virus and Spyware troubleshooting.  • Research on zero day threats. Value Adds by suggesting best practices.  • Research and update Potential threat vectors and Proactive remediation steps in Environment.  • Day to day interaction with global POCs and update on Changes and new Operational Procedures.  • Utilized Remedy and Snow as CRM Tools  Environment: Windows Server 2000, 2003, 2008, Windows XP, Windows 7 Education Bachelor of Technology in Electronics and Communication Engineering Vishwanadha Institute of Technology & Management - Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Kakinada, Andhra Pradesh Certifications/Licenses CCNA Routing and Switching CCNA Security