Technical Analyst II Technical <span class="hl">Analyst</span> II Technical Analyst II - Real Foundations Mesquite, TX Technology specialist with over 20 years of experience in all aspect's information technology with a strong emphasis in management. Team-minded leader; effectively coordinated tasks to accomplish projects with timeliness and creativity. Skilled at building profitable client relationships while providing technical support and motivating cohesive team collaboration.    Information Technology Specialist Work Experience Technical Analyst II Real Foundations August 2015 to Present Member of Manage Service Team, providing IT Support for several different companies. I am the technical lead for several clients to whom I travel to their site, onboard new clients, provide sys admin support level 1- 3 support depending on the client and the services they contracted support for. I work within ServiceNow platform running weekly reports for audits, team stats etc. Assist in ITIL meetings by providing input and creating documentation with onboarding new and existing clients. Process improvement is one of my strong points, coming up with strategies to make IT department strive. I also implement, create training documents and train IT techs on Service Now Chat. Travel within the US to client's sites when asked to assist with training or migrations. Develop written business functional specifications for custom reports, custom applications, changes to security and changes to application functionality. Support clients remotely, locally, will travel to sites in state and    out of state. Customer support is my specialty, being able to provide the level of support and service to end users on a level that will help them better understand the cause of the issue and the resolution.  ? Serves as Level 2 & 3 expert and performs technical trouble shooting and on-call support.  ? Participates and leads team projects that enhance the quality or efficiency of support offerings.  ? Create knowledge articles within ServiceNow  ? Leads the team with the highest SLA completed tasks & KB Articles  ? Leads team with over 2000 ticket closures/resolutions a year  ? Functions very well at a high level under pressure or with short deadline  ? New Hire and Termination processing  ? VOIP support over Skype  ? Exchange Online Email Migration  ? Skype for Business Administration and support  ? Excellent technical knowledge of desktop/laptop hardware and mobile devices  ? Provide documentation of resolutions within the Knowledge Base and assist in publishing Articles  ? Resolves and updates Service Requests accurately and in a timely manner  ? Handle break/fix, configuration issues, troubleshooting, software installations, and hardware repair  ? Monitor ServiceNow queue and respond to meet SLA  ? O365 user training and documentation  ? Azure Server Administration  ? Develop and present client training on applications and business processes  ? Image PCs and Laptops  ? Support multiple applications  ? O365 Support, Admin and Migrations  ? Office 365 Security and Audit log analysis  ? Chrome and IE support  ? Utilize Active directory to assign users to Groups and OU's  ? Solid written and verbal communication skills  ? Solid Customer Service skills and attitude  ? Administer on premise Microsoft Lync/Skype for Business  ? Administer on premise Microsoft Exchange  ? Assist with client onboarding  ? ActiveSync, MDM  ? Powershell scripting  ? Kaseya Administration and Support  ? ESet Administration and Support  ? ManageEngine Administration  ? Strong Windows 10 and & support  ? OnCall team  ? The ability to mentor and guide peers and assist teammates when skill set requires IT-Operations-Sys- Analyst, Executive Support & Asset Manager Neovia Logistics May 2014 to October 2015 Team lead and executive support specialist for the corporate office. Helped design and align IT services in the business need for our clients and assist in company and client's hardware image creation and process. I also serve on ITIL team that evaluates all new hardware and software used to meet company standards I was the quality assurance contact for any assets needed or software implemented through the team. Used Maximo as a ticketing process center and asset management. I controlled management of all hardware and software purchases and end of life tracking, inventoried also conduct and communicate inventory accuracy control projects for facility startups, transfers and takeovers. Processed and created documentation for new hire and termination hardware requests    and recovery for HR and IT. Mobile device management (ordering, activating and recycling cellphones) for entire company. Create and process Maximo tickets to maintain work balance and structure. Assisted in testing structures of new images before deployment and suggest and implement changes when needed.  ? Created a management database for inventory tracking  ? Travel to sites to troubleshoot hardware, software or train users when needed.  ? Create and process Maximo tickets to maintain work balance and structure.  ? Assist with basic hardware setup, imaging and configuration, printer installations  ? Testing structures of new images before deployment and suggest and implement changes when needed  ? Migrated company hardware from Windows to Citrix environment and provided training when needed  ? Supported and SAP, Active Directory, ShareFile and SharePoint access and Citrix App Center  ? Maintain inventory of all company equipment onsite and offsite.  ? Responsible for communicating with clients regarding service delivery, providing assistance on day-to-day plan administration  ? Helped design and align IT services in the business need for our clients  ? Assist in company and client's hardware image creation and process  ? Skype for Business Administration and support  ? O365 Support, Admin and Migrations  ? Windows 7 Migration wo Citrix Thick and Thin client  ? Serve on ITIL team that evaluates all new hardware and software used to meet company standards  ? Quality Assurance contact for any assets needed or software implemented through the team  ? Assist with invoice auditing and processing  ? Controlled management of all hardware and software purchases and end of life tracking, inventoried also conduct and communicate inventory accuracy control projects for facility startups, transfers and takeovers.  ? Processed and created documentation for new hire and termination hardware requests and recovery  ? Mobile device management (ordering, activating and recycling cellphones) for entire company  ? Activate, support and distribute mobile devices such as IPhones, IPads, Windows, Android, and Tablets to employees and facilities  ? Provide end user application and hardware support  ? Surplus all old hardware, inventoried and recycled with third party company Systems Support Analyst & Microsoft Office Pro CompuCom Systems Inc January 2012 to August 2014 Support various clients at one time (Duff & Phelps, Informatica, EP Energy, Cliffs Natural Resources, Florida Power & Light, Life Gift, Union Pacific, Yellow Railroad Co.) Provided level 2 and 3 technical support. Active directory admin and O365 Admin privileges to implement new hire account and terminations. I was the only overnight tech that assisted the clients when they were on oil rigs and needed support.  ? Blackberry server and device support, Android, iPhone, and iPad support.  ? Responsible for communicating with clients regarding service delivery, providing assistance on day-to-day plan administration  ? Ability to coordinate and take the lead on conference calls.  ? Help Desk Remote Control Applications  ? Excellent communication and people skills  ? Installing and Configuring Software Applications  ? Proficiency with Microsoft Office  ? Set Up and Configure Workstations, Printers, and Other Devices  ? Participate in Creating Technical and End-User Support Documentation  ? Capability to Work both Independently and as part of a Team  ? Act as the primary contact for plans regarding day to day record keeping matters and provides prompt customer service    ? Manage team performance to meet client SLA's and KPI's, including metric reporting on team performance Senior Technical Analyst Xerox Corporation June 2013 to July 2014 Software and Hardware support and configuration. Apply company image to laptops and PC's for new hires, and current employees needing windows or system upgrades. SCCM deployment of an enterprise client system including operating system imaging, software packaging, scripting with PowerShell and or other programming languages and application deployment. Work closely with management to make sure processes and workflow remains stable and always increasing the opportunity to make the work process and environment fun and exciting. Managed Assets and inventoried all hardware documenting all equipment entering and leaving the facility  ? Provide desk side support when needed  ? Configure and supported Avaya phone systems  ? Handle shipping and delivery details for remote users  ? Ensures the most complex customer issues are promptly addressed  ? Documented and resolve issues in a timely and professional manner  ? Surplus all hardware and mobile device and inventoried with Asset Management tool  ? Briefs customers as well as management on the status of current resolution efforts and attends daily/weekly meetings.  ? Serves as technical advisor, providing telephone and remote desktop support for system users with complex issues by resolving or conferring with the appropriate technical or systems personnel.  ? Coordinate company Image on Laptops and PC  ? Support telephony, network connections  ? Level 2 & 3 support and OnCall Team Global Information Security & Vulnerability Analyst Bank of America Corporation November 2011 to May 2013 Contract through TEKsystems  Worked various projects to protect the bank from security risks, Maximo was used to track systems, ticketing and assets. I used Qualys scan to run reports of security events to find targeted attacks against network based bank assets. Created Access data base program to help organize data and projects. I assisted on several projects by other department managers in locating potential risks and provided weekly and monthly reports for projects worked.  ? Worked remotely 90% of the time  ? Scanned network for devices that could possibly be threatening and or harm the company.  ? Blocked devices from the network if unknown or deemed to be a threat  ? Worked with other departments to rectify the situation or devices by either remediating them with updates or upgrades or even decommissioning the device or devices.  ? Created department handbook on job duties and responsibilities to assist with new hire training Network Support Analyst/Team Lead NEC Solutions America October 2005 to February 2009 Team Lead, Coordinated, diagnosed and troubleshot incoming customer calls from company employee's onsite or at their homes on a variety of technical issues. Supported network connectivity locally or remotely. Assisted with team building skills to make department better  ? Supported MS Office, Windows and Lotus Notes  ? Used SAP, User Manager, and Active Directory to unlock and reset passwords, and create user accounts  ? Provided support services to remote users with technical issues involving desktop, laptop or network services.  ? Cisco VPN or Sprint Dialer, Create VPN Access  ? Assisted users with installation of corporate software packages including Microsoft Office, Microsoft Outlook, Lotus Notes, and Lotus Sametime, Sales Logix and Cognos 7.    ? Participate in on-call schedule serving as higher level of escalation  ? The ability to mentor and guide peers and assist teammates when skill set requires  ? Participates and leads team projects that enhance the quality or efficiency of support offerings Senior Information Technology Specialist Raytheon Company September 2002 to September 2005 Contract though Volt Technical  Responsible for setting up new hire computers and laptops, Managed Hardware & Software installations and tracking. I became Six Sigma Green Belt Certified. Traveled to various Raytheon sites to refresh hardware. I processed terminations for the entire Raytheon facility in McKinney, Dallas and Plano, TX. I was also a member of the image team, where we met each month to discuss and make changes the company's image that is to be installed on computers and laptops.  ? Assisted with monitoring network status,  ? Retrieved secure data for users and transferred information from one machine to another or backed up system to the network.  ? Became senior lead of my department with 2 other employees under me.  ? Worked in secure areas, received Government Clearance to obtain access to building and secure areas.  ? Provided break/fix support for desktop and laptop at the Dallas, Plano and McKinney Area sites. This includes installation and troubleshooting for both hardware and software as well as troubleshooting for a networked computing environment.  ? Provided break/fix support for network printers.  ? I can support a wide range of Intel-based computer hardware and software.  ? Six Sigma projects which was to create a balanced workload for the entire IT department.  ? Member of the Anti-Virus support team.  ? Processed terminations for the entire Raytheon facility in McKinney, Dallas and Plano, TX.  ? Member of the image team, where we met each month to discuss and make changes the company's image  that is to be installed on computers and laptops. Systems Support Engineer CompuCom Systems Inc June 2000 to September 2002 Responsible for performing on-site or in-house servicing, repair and/or installations.  ? Provides technical support in activities associated with the identification  ? Prioritization and resolution of reported problems.  ? Cisco and Avaya Phone setup and configuration  ? Received A+ Certification  ? Received MOUS Certification  ? Received MCP Certification  ? Performs general maintenance tasks and resolves less complex problems immediately,  ? Worked several accounts, supporting Win 98-Win2000  ? Created user accounts in Active Directory  ? Supported Lotus Notes6  ? Microsoft Office 97-2010  ? Cisco Any Connect VPN support Helpdesk Supervisor Stream International March 1996 to June 2000 Supported Microsoft customers  ? Manage the multi-lingual group  ? Support team to achieve results with the highest possible standard of quality and delivery  ? Performance management: career counselling, coaching, performance development, 1:1's, mentoring  ? Set work priorities for the group    ? Support individual and team efforts to meet key performance measures such as first call resolution, call quality, ticket quality and call duration  ? Participate in delivering new hire and ongoing training.  ? Received over 150 satisfactory awards from Microsoft and their customers Education Child Development & Behavior Richland & Eastfield College 2010 Associates in Criminal Justice Eastfield & ElCentro College 2008 Certificate of Real Estate Richland College 2002