Technical Advisor/Internal Customer Support Technical Advisor/Internal Customer Support Technical Advisor/Internal Customer Support - Jera Networks Steilacoom, WA To obtain a position that will utilize my impressive customer service, and my personal disposition for professionalism, adaptability, and integrity. Work Experience Technical Advisor/Internal Customer Support Jera Networks November 2010 to Present • Serve as primary support for our clients on PC, network and telecommunications issues.  • Resolve client issues quickly and efficiently, while maintaining our high standards of excellence.  • Provided technical support for teachers, students, and administrators at New Market Skills Center in Tumwater, WA. Sales Associate (Part time) Michaels Arts and Supplies - Lakewood, WA November 2013 to November 2017 • Provide customers with excellent customer service, by helping them find what they need and offering suggestions to refine their ideas and create a pleasant experience.  • Assist in the store with merchandise presentation, restocking, cashiering and framing as needed to maintain company standard Security Coordinator Catholic Health Initiative/Kelly IT Svcs June 2010 to November 2010 Network/ Security Support Catholic Health Initiative/Kelly IT Svcs.  • Provided access support for CHI applications, network and data environments.  • Assessed and reviewed new and existing technology infrastructure to identify key risk areas; ensured adequate levels of control were in place to address those risks.  • Communicated technical and operational issues clearly and concisely to management and peers. IT Support Specialist Venture Bank / FDIC / First Citizens Bank September 2006 to April 2010 • Served as primary support for all staff on PC, network and telecommunications issues.  • Responsible for user access maintenance to network and banking systems.  • Managed work requests, ensuring timely resolution to the satisfaction of the end user.  • Contributed toward effective team problem solving with staff, peers and management.  • Facilitated IT training module of New Employee Orientations. Banking Operations VISA Specialist Rainier Pacific Bank June 2005 to September 2006 • Provided Help Desk service, research and training related to VISA accounts, ATM, ACH and Regulation E.  • Maintained quality data in banking systems to ensure accuracy of all customer records.  • Provided technical assistance and training to Banking Operations department in regard to PC and application skills. Help Desk Analyst Rainier Pacific Bank December 2002 to June 2005 • Served as primary support for all staff on telecommunications, banking, MS Office programs, policy/procedure questions, and all third party systems.  • Assistant project manager of the Software Testing Team for new software prior to integration; worked to detect and correct malfunctions or glitches before rollout.  • Managed all work requests, resolving and/or reassigning to the correct resource to ensure timely resolution for the end user.  • Responsible for Track It database maintenance and administration.  • Identified potential system enhancements, training needs and/or process improvements; worked with Business Analysts and the Training Department to implement when appropriate. EDP Liaison I Technical Supervisor Union Planters Bank April 2000 to June 2002 • Supervised a team of seven help desk representatives, supporting the technical and policy/procedure needs of bank employees.  • Responsible for the coordination of work schedules and all status reports for the department.  • Successfully maintained a low abandoned-call rate through supervisory tenure. Help Desk Representative Union Planters Bank March 1998 to April 2000 Performed First Level help desk support for bank employees. Education Union University - Jackson, TN August 1989 to December 1991 Skills Customer Service (10+ years), Troubleshooting (10+ years), Network Administration (10+ years), Novell (10+ years), Banking (10+ years), Firewalls (10+ years), Telephone Skills (10+ years), Telecommunications (10+ years), Printers (10+ years), Groupwise (10+ years), Customer Support (10+ years), Customer Care (10+ years), Call Center (10+ years), CSR (10+ years) Military Service Branch: Air Force Service Country: United States Rank: Senior Airman January 1993 to April 1996 Strategic Aircraft Maintenance, KC-10A Extender    Crew Chief provided day to day maintenance, diagnosed malfunctions and replaced various components, performed post flight and pre flight inspections, supervised airmen who needed training, and coordinated work on components that required specialists. Assessments Customer Service Skills — Proficient December 2018 Measures a candidate's skill in evaluating approaches to customer service & satisfaction. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/leo3gmvhonhvkax Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Groups Woodturners of Olympia April 2016 to Present Group of woodturners offering support, advice, and training for new and established woodturners.