IT Security Analyst II <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> II IT Security Analyst II - SportsAuthorityCorp Englewood, CO IT Cyber Security Analyst that specializes in web application security. Looking to do more security penetration testing. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Security Analyst II SportsAuthorityCorp - Englewood, CO July 2015 to Present Responsible for end to end security, ensuring that the confidentiality, integrity and availability of all  Sports Authority data is not breached, infected or compromised in anyway by outside malicious users.  By utilizing a defense in depth approach and identifying areas of potential weakness, Sports Authority's  attack surface has been significantly reduced and maintained.  • Primary IT security lead on high profile integration and implementation projects. Many of these projects  helped generate cost effective, automated solutions that required ground up security architecture,  design and implementation.  • Performed full application security assessments and analysis on newly built and existing applications.  Because of these efforts, many potential security threats were identified before being released into a  production environment. Existing production security vulnerabilities were promptly remediated upon discovery, thus greatly reducing the overall security risk within Sports Authority.  • Continuous monitoring of the Sports Authority network and internal systems for malicious activity.  Numerous attacks and security threats targeted at company have been prevented because of these  efforts. Forensics and post analysis were performed to gain a better understanding of the attack, to build a stronger defense for future occurrences.  • Actively perform threat reconnaissance and research on zero day vulnerabilities and newly identified  security threats. Newly developed malicious kits, strains of malware, phishing techniques and exploits  were identified at early stages allowing Sports Authority to adequately prepare for newly introduce  security threats and attack campaigns.  • Created Web Application Security testing procedural workflow documentation. This workflow allowed  other members of the team to perform web application security testing and assessments, contributing to the team's knowledge base and increasing individual work bandwidth.  • Assisted in setting up automated security scans using Tenable. This allowed systems to be scanned  more frequently and required less bandwidth due to automated scan scheduling. This also allowed  newly introduced vulnerabilities to be quickly identified and remediated. Senior Security Engineer HitachiDataSystems - Englewood, CO April 2015 to July 2015 • Designed and implement initial security scanning process.  • Assessed risk and validated vulnerabilities. This helped identify false positives and significantly  minimized unnecessary remediation efforts.  • Provided detailed reports on security findings and worked closely with development teams to remediate  vulnerabilities. Systems Analyst / Enterprise Release Manager Anthem Inc - Denver, CO October 2012 to April 2015 Responsible for the overall quality associated with web application releases by ensuring that all  application teams are following the appropriate processes and requirements for an application release.  • Led the effort in the implementation and adoption of the Application Security scanning process.  • Developed analytical metrics that are now being provided to upper management on a weekly basis.  • Demonstrated the ability to analyze and quickly identify performance bottlenecks in existing processes.  • Collaborated with many groups and teams to tighten down the mandatory process requirements for application releases.  • Implemented and managed the 2014 Mid-Year Application Freeze Exception process.  • Constructed a SharePoint site to help manage Freeze exception approval process. Education Associates of Arts in Business Community College of Aurora - Aurora, CO 2008 Bachelor of Science in Business Finance Metro State University - Denver, CO Additional Information • Implementation of process and • Excellent communicator • Quickly familiarize, use and  process improvement • Quickly analyze and execute understand new  • Proven Leader requirements technologies  • Ability to adapt to change quickly • Work effective and efficiently with  others    TECHNOLOGIES AND PROFICIENCIES    • Web Application Security Tool Set • AV, IPS and IDS (FireEye,  (Burp Suite Pro, OWASP ZAP, etc) CheckPoint, Symantic, etc)  • Networking Security Tool Set • Windows / OSX / Linux  (WireShare, NMAP, etc) • SharePoint  • Python, HTML, CSS, JS, Objective C • Back Track / Kali Linux toolbox  Swift 2.0