Lead Cyber Security Analyst Lead Cyber <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Lead Cyber Security Analyst - FEDERAL RESERVE BANK of SAN FRANCISCO A forward-thinking IT Manager, Security and Project Leader with sound judgment and exceptional ability to solve problems tactfully and diplomatically, manage complex projects, deliver results, and work collaboratively with cross-functional team to achieve common goals.  SKILLS AND KNOWLEDGE  •Agile project management •Information systems and data management  •Staff training and management •Business analysis and process development  •Cybersecurity and risk management •Process improvement and change management Work Experience Lead Cyber Security Analyst FEDERAL RESERVE BANK of SAN FRANCISCO February 2018 to Present • Manage the enterprise Security Control Assessment program using the NIST Risk Management Framework to ensure adequate and correct controls are in place to protect and defend the Federal Reserve System (FRS) information and information systems.  • Manage vendor relationships and work performance to ensure consistent quality of services and products provide to stakeholders across the FRS.  • Develop and execute a comprehensive, threat-driven and risk-based cybersecurity program with the senior leadership team to protect and defend the FRS high value assets. Program/Project Manager October 2014 to February 2018 • Planned, implemented and matured the division's Agile Scrum project management framework to accelerate the development and deployment of business intelligence (BI) solutions.  • Coached and managed developers and business analysts on BI projects and deliverables as a Scrum Master.  • Researched BI tools, created proof-of-concept, procured tools, implemented and trained users. Manager Identity Access Management (IAM) May 2012 to October 2014 • Worked with the production support team to develop and optimize operational processes to efficiently resolve and triage reported issues as defined in service level agreements to ensure IAM systems and services were stable, reliable and available.  • Managed the release team to ensure issues and risks were identified, understood, and dealt with in a manner that mitigated risk to the release scope, schedule, and quality.  • Led the internal audit initiatives to ensure the IAM systems and operational processes satisfied regulatory and security requirements. Sr. Business Analyst / IT Consultant Information Security Consulting August 2008 to May 2012 • Chaired the department Information Security Consulting awareness program. Worked with information security officer to define and enforce security requirements and best practices to strengthen the department's overall security posture.  • Interfaced with stakeholders to define, gather and manage business and technical requirements for the FRS internal applications and systems.  • Performed business process and system gap analysis with end-users, product owners, and developers to enhance business operations, systems, and applications. Sr. Marketing Data Analyst/Business System Consultant WASHINGTON MUTUAL/WELLS FARGO BANK June 2001 to August 2008 • Worked with database developers and finance teams on the development and deployment of a finance data mart and customer relationship management application.  • Developed SQL queries to extract, compile, and cleanse data from multiple data sources to create  segmentation reports and analyzed key data drivers such as FICO scores, attrition, utilization, revenue, and profitability to provide insight into customer retention and conversion rate.  • Developed and managed vendor relationships to acquire quality leads and launched direct marketing campaigns to support the sales force pipeline.  • Worked with senior leadership team to develop and launch new cross-selling dashboards, new business processes, sales materials, and marketing campaigns.  • Collaborated with product owners, business analysts and developers to define requirements and implemented enhancements to the customer relationship management application in order to accurately capture, track, and report on sales and prospecting lifecycle activities. Education Bachelor of Arts in Political Science University of California - Davis, CA Masters of Science in Information Systems University of San Francisco Skills SDLC, Scrum Master, PMP, PM, Waterfall Links http://www.securosity.com Certifications/Licenses PMP Scrum Master Stanford Advanced Project Management