Consultant Consultant Consultant - BNP Paribas Hoboken, NJ Risk Management professional, with over 20 years of experience in the Banking industry. Extensive contributions designing and implementing Risk Management frameworks involving Operational Risk, Third-Party Risk, and Cyber Security.  • Operational Risk - Basel II/III, RCSA, Scenario Analysis, KRIs, Capital Calculation, Loss Data  • Third-Party Risk - OCC, FRB, FFIEC - Planning, Due Diligence for onsite and remote assessments, Contract Negotiations, Ongoing Monitoring, Engagement Termination  • Cyber Security - FFIEC level 3, NYDFS Part 500, NIST CSF initiatives Work Experience Consultant BNP Paribas - New York, NY January 2018 to Present - CIB Information Security - Cyber Security Risk Management  • Created Cyber Security framework documentation showing compliance with industry standards and regulatory guidelines, including the NIST CFS, NYDFS Part 500 and FFIEC Level 3 maturity.  • Conducted a gap analysis of current state policies and procedures and gathered supporting evidence proving FFIEC Level 3 maturity.  • Assisted in gathering supporting documentation showing compliance with NYDFS Part 500.  • Prepared responses and supporting documentation to resolve internal audit and external regulatory findings around third-party risk.  • Conducted RCSA to assess security controls protecting the Corporate Investment Banking division. Consultant - EIT Consumer Lending Technology - IT Risk Manager Wells Fargo - New York, NY September 2017 to November 2017 Assisted in responding to regulatory findings and creating new policies and procedures to enforce compliance and transparency around Application Risk and IT Projects for Consumer Lending. Consultant - Operational Risk Department Bank of China - New York, NY December 2016 to February 2017 - Risk Manager  • Contributed in revamping the Operational Risk Department's policies and procedures to comply with regulatory findings. Created Visio process flows to identify control points for all of the Lines of Business for the Americas to support the RCSA Program and worked directly with the CRO on this initiative. Consultant - Individual Life Insurance Prudential - Newark, NJ April 2016 to September 2016 - Vendor Risk Manager  • Redesigned the vendor governance process for the Individual Life Insurance business unit. Evaluated the current and future states, and regulatory compliance with OCC, FRB, and FFIEC. Advised the BISO from the Information Security perspective. SME for evaluating SSAE16 / SOC reports. Consultant - Enterprise Information Security MUFG - Jersey City, NJ August 2015 to December 2015 - Technology and Vendor Risk  • Designed process flows, policies and procedures complying with regulatory requirements (OCC, FRB, FFIEC) and executive management initiatives within the Enterprise Information Security Department. The third-party framework included Planning, Due Diligence (SIG / SOC reports), Risk Assessment following NIST / ISO 270002 domains, Contract Negotiations, Continuous Monitoring and Engagement Termination. Consultant Credit Suisse - New York, NY March 2015 to August 2015 - Operational Risk Control Regulatory Reporting  • Collaborated with the Data Management Control and Regulatory Reporting teams to create data sourcing process flows and document governance controls to comply with the future state FR Y-9C (IHC) and FR Y-14Q (CCAR) reports Consultant - Financial Systems & Analysis Department Credit Suisse - Jersey City, NJ December 2012 to March 2014 Mitigated risk on an internal audit finding involving sign offs on the financial statement disclosures. Liaised with IT and Financial Reporting teams to create BRDs, testing and implementation of a platform to automate the disclosure reports and produce transparent sign offs on the 10K and 10Q financials.    Morgan Stanley, NY, NY  Consultant - Finance Department  • Conducted a gap analysis for the BRD/FRD documents involving the RWA Denominator Calculation and the latest NPR following Basel III accord. Updated the manual processes from the data providers, verified data pulls and created templates. Liaised with development on dependencies, issues, assumptions and risks.    Mastercard, White Plains, NY  Consultant - Legal Department  • Analyzed the business needs for the AML, Legal, Credit Risk departments and developed a holistic approach for the on-boarding and on-going risk monitoring of clients. Banking Officer - Operational Risk Management Department Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ - New York, NY April 2005 to April 2010 Contributed to the development and implementation of bank-wide Operational Risk, Vendor Risk and BCP frameworks for all of the Americas that incorporated Basel II requirements and met regulatory standards. One of three people to work on this initiative directly for the CRO. Technical Analyst - Prime Brokerage Credit Suisse - New York, NY July 2001 to April 2005 Provided technical support for hedge fund clients including collecting their trade files at night and providing reports in the morning. Call Center Manager - Client Services Notara - New York, NY February 2000 to March 2001 Managed a technical support team for web-based software that streamlined the business processes between brand owners interfacing with their licensees. Technology Analyst - GS Financial Workbench Credit Suisse - New York, NY May 1998 to February 2000 Provided technical support for the GS Financial Workbench Support Desk in the New York, London, and Tokyo offices by establishing documentation and providing group and individual training for new staff members. Education Masters in level course MONTCLAIR STATE UNIVERSITY - Upper Montclair, NJ December 2015 Skills Governance, Risk Management, Compliance, SOX