Information Security Analyst Information <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Information Security Analyst Austin, TX Goal orientated professional that is actively seeking a role in Information Security. By working in InfoSec the past three years, I’ve been involved in multiple areas of security and infrastructure operations. Being part of both a midsize and large company, I am ready to pursue an environment where I am faced with more challenging problems. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Information Security Analyst Samsung Austin Semiconductor - Austin, TX December 2016 to Present ? Coordinated and implemented IBM QRadar     ? Created a security awareness program by developing internal educational SharePoint sites,   quarterly newsletters, and monthly lunch and learns     ? Contributed in the creation of a company wide vulnerability management program that helped the   business establish effective patch cycles for systems     ? Advised departments intern to help them accomplish summer projects and tasks at hand     ? Analyze and respond to phishing emails from employees     ? Assist in the creation and implementation of policies     ? Instructed InfoSec new employee orientation presentations for all new employees     ? Gather monthly statistics and create presentations for upper management and executive boards Associate Security Analyst, IT CONTINENTAL RESOURCES - Oklahoma City, OK January 2015 to December 2016 ? Development of Nexpose scan policies, assets, scans, dashboards and reports  ? Coordinated and conducted penetration tests to look for vulnerabilities in systems  ? Established and facilitated the Security Awareness program that educated employees about  threats and security incident engagement  ? Deployed and managed endpoint protections for 1700 clients and servers  ? Perform daily reviews of event logs and security checks  ? Recommended, tested and implemented security applications  ? Assisted in incidents and provided corrective actions to parties involved  ? Tier two troubleshooting for client/server problems Information Security Intern CONTINENTAL RESOURCES - Oklahoma City, OK May 2014 to November 2016 • Learned about multiple security domains and how they were applied to an enterprise environment  • Implemented and executed training for over 50 individuals on password storage system  • Generated training tools and publications for separate work groups for the storage system  • Represented Continental Resources at meetings conducted by government entities and other  energy companies Education BSBA in Management Information Systems Oklahoma State University-Main Campus - Stillwater, OK August 2012 to December 2014 Associate of Arts in General Studies Connors State College - Warner, OK August 2010 to May 2012 Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/levisims Certifications/Licenses Information Systems Security Professional, NSTISSI 4011 Present GIAC (GSEC - upcoming) Additional Information • Operating Systems:  • Languages:  • Database:  • Applications:  Information Systems Security Professional, NSTISSI 4011 Windows, OSX, Ubuntu, Kali Linux  PHP, C#, Python  Microsoft SQL Server  Palo Alto Firewall, Nexpose, Metasploit Pro, Netskope, Digital Guardian, Thycotic Secret Server, Cisco Ironport, SolarWinds Orion, AD Audit,  Nmap, Symantec Endpoint Manager