SR SECURITY ENGINEER SR <span class="hl">SECURITY</span> ENGINEER SR SECURITY ENGINEER - COMPASS GROUP Waxhaw, NC Ambitious information technology professional driven to provide exceptional service in Information Security and Threat/Vulnerability management. I bring many transferrable skills from over 16 years of professional experience in management, operations, and business development positions in the banking and financial services industries. Driven analyst who has a broad, deep knowledge of technology and knows how to find solutions to unanswered questions. Loves challenges and embraces new technologies. Punctual and eager to put in the time it takes to get results. Creates solutions through research, testing and validation. Currently working towards OSCP to supplement my VM/testing experience. Work Experience SR SECURITY ENGINEER COMPASS GROUP - Charlotte, NC November 2016 to Present -Performed Security Architecture reviews for new point of sale units and reviewed changes to existing units. Directed Field Account Managers on Implementation  -Provided Security reviews on company acquisitions  -Performed Vendor Security Reviews and improved the existing process  -Incident response team member  -InsightVM (Nexpose) Certified Administrator / AppSpider Certified Admin  -Cisco AMP Lead Admin. Maintained up to date threat list and IOCs. Coordinated deployment to POS devices  -Splunk Admin, Meraki Admin  -Coordinated 3rd party Penetration test, provided scope and led remediation effort of vulnerabilities that were identified  -Performed Network Vulnerability scans and Web Application Vulnerability scans  -Performed forensics on compromised Point of sale terminals  -Produced PCI documentation for clients (SAQs, attestation, scans) SECURITY ARCHITECT/ENGINEER CAPGEMINI - Charlotte, NC June 2015 to November 2016 -Developed Policy, Standard and Strategy for Web Application Security scanning throughout the SDLC, built from the ground up. Developed Severity ratings and associated remediation timeframes  -Conducted testing between competing vendors Veracode and HP Fortify/Webinspect to make a recommendation of an Application Security tool to C-Level Execs.  -Managed/implemented vulnerability scan schedule (Qualys and Nexpose) of LPL's network/infrastructure. Configured scanners to reach specific segments/VLANs within network. Contributed to creation of SLAs which is based on vulnerability severity. Identified gaps and made improvements to the business processes. Transitioned from Qualys to Nexpose. Estimated hardware requirements, etc.  -Contributed to Malware/Threat analysis from Fortinet Firewall traffic (inspection), VirusTotal, FS-ISAC, idefense  -Engaged various Engineers/Sys Admins to remediate vulnerabilities  -Developed reporting procedures and assisted with Threat and Vulnerability (TVM) remediation.  -Reviewed MSBs ( security baselines) on a regular basis to ensure they are applicable to the current environment. Utilized CIS Benchmarks. Reviewed exceptions/waivers to MSBs as well.  -Performed quarterly reviews of PCI/SOX controls with corresponding business owners. Worked with external/internal audit to remediate findings associated controls. INFORMATION SECURITY ANALYST LOWE'S CORPORATE - Mooresville, NC December 2014 to June 2015 -Managed/implemented vulnerability scan schedule (Qualys and Nexpose) of Lowe's network. Contributed to creation of SLAs which is based on vulnerability severity. Identify gaps and make improvements to the business processes.  -Engaged various Engineers/Admins to remediate vulnerabilities  -Responsible for submitting Quarterly PCI attested report to Merchant Banks  -Developed reporting procedures and assisted with Threat and Vulnerability (TVM) remediation.  -Utilized Atrium/ADDM to for asset/network/host discovery  -Reviewed MSBs ( security baselines) on a regular basis to ensure they are applicable to the current environment. Reviewed exceptions/waivers to MSBs as well.  -Member of project team that was entrusted with migrating from Qualys to Nexpose. Also on project team that developed eGRC tool (RSA Archer), and project that developed an IT Asset Mgmt database (CMDB).  -Performed quarterly reviews of PCI/SOX controls with corresponding business owners. Worked with external/internal audit to remediate findings associated controls.  -Developed RSA Archer (admin) to help automate PCI/SOX/Internal control review process. INFRASTRUCTURE IT CONSULTANT CAPGEMINI - Charlotte, NC August 2014 to December 2014 -Performed troubleshooting/monitoring of a global investment bank (client) network with 90,000+ servers, Unix/Linux/Windows/VMware.  - Coordinated with UK team and Indian/Asia team in a "follow the sun" format for 24/7 coverage.  - Provided suggestions/analysis on improving security (wireshark, RSA, tokens, single sign-on, disabling unused ports and applications, ACL's) and efficiency of network (traffic shaping, redundant routes, load balancing).  -Monitored network traffic and utilization (RDP, PUTTY, RightITNow, Service Now, Splunk, System Sentinel), disk space (TreeSize Pro), timeouts, Server CPU/Mem utilization, Interface/Port Utilizations (Cisco), etc. Education MBA EAST CAROLINA UNIVERSITY - Greenville, NC 2002 Bachelor of Science in Biological Sciences EAST CAROLINA UNIVERSITY - Greenville, NC 1999 Skills Network Security, Information Security, Splunk Certifications/Licenses Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH) Present PCI-ISA (Internal Security Assessor) Present Nexpose Certified Admin (InsightVM) Present AppSpider Certified Admin (DAST) Present Network+ Present Security+ Present A+ Certified Present