Information Security Analyst (Contractor) Information <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> (Contractor) Information Security Analyst (Contractor) - Electoral Commission, VA Germantown, MD I have more than 4 years experience as an IT Security analyst in conducting Certification and Accreditations  and Vendor Risks Assessments on major and minor applications. I am a good team player, have excellent  customer relations, a self-motivated personality. I am able to work with minimum or no supervision and  have the ability to stand pressure and keep classified information. Work Experience Information Security Analyst (Contractor) Electoral Commission, VA September 2017 to Present Conduct interviews with key client and stakeholders to evaluate the current information security  practices.  • Conduct meetings with the IT client team to gather evidence, developed test plans, testing  procedures and documented test results and exceptions.  • Audit Information Systems and applications within health systems and assessing control gaps.  • Assesses security control test plans and conducted in-depth security assessments of information  systems that evaluate compliance of administrative, physical, technical, organizational and polices  safeguards for compliance based on NIST SP 800-53rev 4 Security controls  • Document reports on findings and help develop corrective actions plans.  • Conduct walkthroughs, formulated test plans, documented gaps, test results, and exceptions; and developed remediation plans for each area of testing.  • Supports information security governance, risk and compliance activities aligned with the NIST Risk  Management Framework (RMF).  • Perform follow up risk/vulnerability assessments to ensure identified vulnerabilities or weaknesses  from previous assessment efforts are properly mitigated.  • Support IT controls assessments that included reviewing organizational policies, standards,  procedures and guidelines. IT Security Analyst (Contractor ) Department of Veterans Affairs - Benefits Administration - AITC - Austin, TX October 2015 to August 2017 Conduct Certification and Accreditation (C&A) on major application using the six steps of the Risk  Management Framework (RMF) from NIST SP 800-37 in order to meet the necessary Federal  Information Security Management Act (FISMA).  • Develop System Security Plan (SSP), Security Assessment Report (SAR) and POA&Ms that are  presented to the Designated Approving Authority (DAA) in order to obtain the authority to operate  (ATO).  • Monitor and document security assessments and follow up on remediation.  • Security Frameworks - FIPS199, NIST 800-53 rev 4  • Perform Assessment and Authorization for large applications used by Veterans, including; The GI  Bill, Health Benefits, Education Applications.  • Document results on security assessment along with plan of action and milestones (POA&M)  • Work on System Interconnection Agreements  • Perform Security Assessment with US Treasury, USCG, IRS, DoD. IT Security Analyst Nationwide Credit Corporation July 2014 to September 2015  Josephine Onike Leigh  Email: Onike.leigh@gmail.com Phone: 3016938721  EXECUTIVE SUMMARY  INSIGHTFUL | LEADERSHIP | INTEGRITY  Diligent, result-driven and analytical IT security professional with 6+ years of extensive experience in conducting risk assessment, Cyber/ IT auditing and compliance, system controls, system verification and validation testing techniques. Comprehensive knowledge on regulatory compliance for implementing and communicating Federal Information Security Modernization Act (FISMA) compliance for the Federal government as well as several internationally recognized commercial frameworks. Areas of expertise include NIST RMF, ISO, COBIT5, SSAE16 (SAS70), SOC 1 and 2, FedRamp, HIPAA/HITECH and PCI DSS. Cognizant of various industry standards pertaining to Federal and Commercial industries, resourceful, detail- oriented, and client focused, with a continuing passion for growth.   STRENGTHS & EXPERTISE  ? Risk ? Continuous Monitoring Assessment/Management  ? Cyber Security and Privacy ? Security Assessment & Authorization  ? IT Security Compliance ? Incident Response  EDUCATION  University of Maryland, University College Adelphi, MD  University of Maryland , Montgomery County, MD Bachelor of Science, Business Technology Minor: Economics  PROFESSIONAL CERTIFICATION  ? System Monitoring  ? Information Assurance  ? Disaster Recovery    • ITIL® Foundation certificate in IT Service Management  • CompTIA Security + Certified  • CTFL - ISTQB  • Actively pursuing Certified Information System Auditor – Expected Date: September 2019     PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE  Freddie Mac – Reston, VA  IT Assessor March.2018 to Present  • Developed documents, and maintained baseline for configuration for OCIOS enterprises  • Updated patched information when applicable  • Ensured quality assurance and assessments are implemented within OCIO change request  • Updated annually or when necessary tested, validated and documented OCIO Ent  • Monitor and document security assessments and follow up on remediation.  CYBER PRO CONSULTING  Electoral Commission, VA  Information Security Analyst Sep. 2015 to Feb.2018  • Conduct interviews with key client and stakeholders to evaluate the current information security practices.  • Conduct meetings with the IT client team to gather evidence, developed test plans, testing procedures and documented test results and exceptions.  • Audit Information Systems and applications within health systems and assessing control gaps.  • Assesses security control test plans and conducted in-depth security assessments of information systems that evaluate compliance of administrative, physical, technical, organizational and polices safeguards for compliance based on NIST SP 800-53rev 4 Security controls  • Document reports on findings and help develop corrective actions plans.  CYBER PRO CONSULTING   Nationwide Credit Corporation IT Security Analyst  July 2014 to Sept. 2015  • Performed Third Party/Vendor Risk Assessment to assess the effectiveness of vendor’s  controls against ISO 27001.  • Identify weakness in the internal controls and opportunities to enhance operational  efficiencies  • Work directly with the business units to facilitate IT risk analysis and risk management  processes, identify acceptable levels of risk, and establish roles and responsibilities with  regard to information classification and protection.  • Developed SOX 404 and GLBA compliance reports, documenting auditing findings and  development of corrective actions plans.  • Maintained appropriate security documentation for applications and systems      Skills Change Management (Less than 1 year), NIST (2 years), Risk Assessment (1 year), Security (6 years), testing (Less than 1 year) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Certification and Accreditation (NIST RMF framework), Risk Assessment, General Computer Controls,  Application control, Compliance Testing, Change Management, Media Protection and Physical Security.