App Security Analyst App <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> App Security Analyst - Omgeo LLC, A DTCC Company Boston, MA Work Experience App Security Analyst Omgeo LLC, A DTCC Company - Boston, MA October 2014 to Present Organized and implemented penetration testing for external facing applications  ? Performed risk analysis on the application assessment findings and suggest mitigation  plans  ? Performed application penetration testing using tools to test the fixes of the findings  ? Performed vulnerability and risk analysis on open source software  ? Designing the process to integration application security into the Agile SDLC IT Risk Analyst Omgeo LLC, A DTCC Company - Boston, MA October 2013 to September 2014 Performed quantitative and qualitative analysis on existing applications as a part of the  Threat and Vulnerability assessment  ? Performed risk assessment on the vulnerable commercial applications  ? Assisted in the Client Due Diligence process  ? Conducted application assessments on external facing applications Information Security Analyst Omgeo LLC, A DTCC Company - Boston, MA July 2012 to September 2013 Sept 2013 )    ? Performed the role of primary incident responder as a part of the SOC team  ? Performing research and analyzing the threats due to malware  ? Monitoring and testing the existing technical controls  ? Performing initial assessment and response during an incident as a part of cyber security  ? Using the tools such as Splunk and McAfee to monitor for malicious network activity  ? Designed and developed the team site using Microsoft SharePoint as a part of the security awareness program  ? Managed the open source LMS, MOODLE as a part of the Information Security Training ACADEMICPROJECT January 2012 to May 2012 Performed research on the existing security policies of the Harvard Server Operation Center  ? Performed "gap" analysis on the existing Harvard security policies based on the COBIT standard.  ? Suggesting policies to be implemented for the security of the Server Operation Center. Brightcove Inc - Cambridge, MA August 2011 to December 2011 Used JavaScript to check for errors in the video players.  ? Used XML and BEML to customize player templates and test for the client.  ? Worked on video delivery features such as live streaming and direct delivery of the content from Akamai servers.  ? Worked with HTML5 for designing players on iphone and ipad devices.  ? Worked with flash based players and content delivery on smart phones.  ? Have knowledge of Digital Rights Management Education Master of Science in Information Assurance Northeastern University - Boston, MA September 2010 to May 2013 Bachelors in Computer Engineering Mumbai University - Mumbai, Maharashtra September 2005 to May 2010 Additional Information TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE  Languages: C, C++, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, PHP, XML.  Databases: MySQL, Oracle 11g  Operating Systems  : Windows, Linux  Tools: Wireshark, Nessus, Backtrack, Salesforce, Splunk, McAfee, HP Fortify SCA