Business Systems Analyst Business Systems <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Analyst Worcester, MA Work Experience Business Systems Analyst SELCO - Shrewsbury, MA November 2017 to Present Establishes and maintains a strong working relationship with department heads and users throughout each core business vertical and across the enterprise.  ? Assists the CIO in researching, reviewing, and selecting new business systems, or replacements for existing systems.  ? Provides backup, support, technical guidance, and advisory services to all other divisions of SELCO and municipalities.  ? Assumes responsibility for immediate response to production program problems. IT Security Analyst North Brookfield Savings Bank - North Brookfield, MA November 2017 to November 2018 Monitor and maintain alarm systems in all branches using Verex security software.  ? Monitor network for harmful threats using Ivanti Endpoint Security.  ? Run user access reports on all external applications and compare reports to employee records.  ? Build out Jira Service Desk for employee service requests and access changes.  ? Reset passwords in Active Directory and external applications for employees.  ? Gained my SSCP Certificate (Systems Security Certified Practitioner) from ISC2. IT Support Technician II Boston Heart Diagnostics - Framingham, MA April 2016 to November 2017 Served as system administrator for enterprise applications including Atlassian Products, Microsoft Products, Kaspersky, DSX Access system and Active Directory Server.  ? Work with AirWatch to keep track of all corporate devices.  ? Use Active Directory daily to set-up new employees, create and maintain security groups, create and maintain distribution groups, update users and computers within correct containers and to disable accounts.  ? Troubleshoot issues with software such as MS Office, Windows, IOS on iPhone and iPad.  ? Troubleshoot issues with hardware such as printers, laptops, phones.  ? Patch ports in server room to provide internet and voice service to on-site users.  ? Maintain and daily monitoring of Kaspersky Anti-virus Server and DSX Access  System Server Education Clark University - Worcester, MA September 2019 Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in w/ CyberSecurity Southern New Hampshire University - Manchester, NH Certifications/Licenses SSCP (Systems Security Certified Professional)