Security Analyst ( IT Risk & Security Assessor) <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> (<span class="hl">IT</span> Risk &amp; <span class="hl">Security</span> Assessor) IT Security Analyst Washington, DC Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Security Analyst ( IT Risk & Security Assessor) Smart Think Ltd - Reston, VA May 2015 to Present ? Performed risk assessments for regulatory and compliance standards and frameworks.  ? Wrote comprehensive, articulate and objective reviews outlining analysis and results of the audit.  ? Developed and conducted security tests and evaluations based on NIST 800-53A Rev 4.  ? Ensured that management, operational and technical controls for securing either sensitive  Security Systems or IT Systems are in place and are followed according to federal  guidelines (NIST SP 800-53).  ? Assessed a selected subset of the technical, management, and operational security  controls employed within and inherited by the information system in accordance with the organization - defined monitoring strategy.  ? Advised on the remediation of security issues based on reports from vulnerability  assessment scanners, patch management tools, and emerging threat information.  ? Developed Business Continuity Plans. Information Assurance Analyst Smart Think Ltd - Washington, DC December 2012 to May 2015 ?Conducted systems risk assessment through risk analysis, assessed assets within system boundaries, and identified all possible vulnerabilities within systems.  ? Assessed security controls in accordance with the assessment procedures defined in the security assessment plan through examination, interviews, and testing.  ? Conducted initial remediation actions on security controls based on the findings and recommendations of the security assessment report and re-assessed remediated control(s), as appropriate.  ? Conducted security assessments by reviewing System Security Plans (SSP) to create Kick-Off Presentations, Security Assessment Plans (SAP), and Security Control Assessment (SCA) matrices.  ? Drafted Security Assessment Reports (SAR) to provide stakeholders information regarding the security posture of their systems in accordance to the controls outlined in NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 4.  ? Wrote audit reports for distribution to management, and provided presentations and briefings as assigned.  ? Reviewed organizational policies, standards and procedures and provided advice on their adequacy, accuracy and compliance with the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard. Education Bachelor of Arts in Theater and Media Studies Emory University - Atlanta, GA May 2015