Student IT Security Analyst Student <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Student IT Security Analyst - Kent State University Work Experience Student IT Security Analyst Kent State University 2017 to Present ? Provided Tier II support to thousands of students, faculty, staff daily via ticketing systems (Team  Dynamix and RT)  ? Training and education for hundreds of students and all management levels on security issues  and the importance of confidentiality  ? Member of the Incident Response (IR) team  ? Provide end-user education on Security Best Practices  ? Interpersonal and oral skills both in person and on the phone  ? Ability to balance multiple, high intense issues with deadlines, while maintaining other duties Student IT Security Analyst-Intern Kent State University 2018 to 2018 • How to perform investigations and gathered information for subpoenas  • Participated and assisted in process improvement for thousands of compromised accounts  • Ability to work in a team work and how to interact with a wide range of department employees  • Remained professional in the office workplace while dealing with customers and employees Desk Analyst Kent State University 2017 to 2017 Assisted users through tech support, a wide variety of technical issues and account problems  ? Provided Tier I support to students, faculty, staff daily via ticketing systems and email Desk Analyst Kent State University 2012 to 2013 ? Provided educational demonstrations of new technology in the building to faculty and Staff.  ? Assisted in troubleshooting of student, faculty, and staff computers and devices.  ? Cleaned and maintained lab and server equipment.  ? Installed and imaged computers in labs and diagnosed defective equipment then facilitated  adequate solutions. Education Bachelor of Science in Digital Science Kent State University - Kent, OH 2014 to 2019 Skills AIR COMPLIANCE (Less than 1 year), Compliance Regulations (Less than 1 year), GLBA (Less than 1 year), HIPAA (Less than 1 year), ISO (Less than 1 year), NIST (Less than 1 year), Oracle (Less than 1 year), PAYMENT CARD INDUSTRY (Less than 1 year), PCI (Less than 1 year), remediation (Less than 1 year), Splunk (Less than 1 year)