Information Security Engineer Information <span class="hl">Security</span> Engineer Work Experience Information Security Engineer September 2017 to Present Job Description:  ? Monitor their organization's networks for security breaches and investigate a violation when one occurs  ? Develop security standards and best practices for the organization  ? Fix detected vulnerabilities to maintain a high- security standard  ? Recognizes problems by identifying abnormalities; reporting violations  ? Determines security violations and inefficiencies by conducting periodic audits  ? Install security measures and operate software to protect systems and information infrastructure, including firewalls and data encryption programs  ? Upgrades system by implementing and maintaining security controls  ? Recommend security enhancements to management or senior IT staff Information Security Engineer SPI Global (Parañaque) June 2016 to August 2017 Job Description:  ? Monitors network activity for abnormalities and execute correcting actions, also maintains IPS/HIDS  ? Ensures that endpoint/antivirus is updated and properly reporting  ? Evaluates emails and assess if a mail is a spam  ? Performs vulnerability assessment scans and ensure that servers are safe from vulnerabilities  ? Enforces and make sure that company is PCI-DSS compliant together with compliance team  ? Researches for new malwares and threats on servers/applications/end points  ? Assess websites if the website is safe to access  ? Manages proxy appliance and ensure that user only access work related sites  ? Manages security appliance, (backups, configurations) Information Security Specialist American Data Exchange Corporation April 2015 to May 2016 Job Description:  ? Checks and contributes to resolving any current systems and network security issues  ? Analyzes, tests, develops, and oversees the implementation of the IT network security.  ? Manages and maintains information security program policy, standards, guidelines, and procedures to ensure active maintenance of the network security profile  ? Monitors internal control systems to ensure that appropriate information access levels and security clearances are maintained  ? Assist in the investigation of IT security-related incidents  ? Performs information security risk assessments and serves as the internal auditor for information security processes IT Helpdesk Analyst American Data Exchange Corporation October 2014 to April 2015 Job Description:  ? Checks and contributes to resolving any current systems and network security issues  ? Analyzes, tests, develops, and oversees the implementation of the IT network security.  ? Manages and maintains information security program policy, standards, guidelines, and procedures to ensure active maintenance of the network security profile  ? Monitors internal control systems to ensure that appropriate information access levels and security clearances are maintained  ? Assist in the investigation of IT security-related incidents  ? Performs information security risk assessments and serves as the internal auditor for information security processes Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology International Electronics and Technical Institute 2009 to 2014 Eastern Bacoor National High School 2005 to 2009 information security Marella Christianne Institute 1999 to 2005 Skills Security (4 years), Information Security, Network Security, Siem, It Security, Access Control