SR. PENETRATION TESTER SR. PENETRATION TESTER Sr. Security Operations/Penetration Tester - CON EDISON, INC New York, NY • Experienced in Vulnerability management and remediation.  • Scanning the network and provide the scan reports to operational teams.  • Mitigate vulnerabilities identified in Security scans.  • Expert in Identifying and evaluating risks during review and analysis of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC), including design, testing/QA, and implementation of systems and upgrades.  • Expert in preparing audit scopes, reported findings, and presented recommendations for improving data integrity and operations.  • Skilled in conducting reviews of data centers, extranets, telecommunications, and intranets to assess controls and ensure availability, accuracy, and security under all conditions.  • Performed checks to ensure that the audits are performed accurately in allocated time frame.  • Good understanding of Incident Response and Forensic investigation on volatile memory, hard drives and cloud storage.  • Understanding of Incident response policies and guidelines, REACT principle, Policy enforcement, Malware analysis and Incident recovery.  • Skilled in using Access Data FTK software's, volatility and Encase in analysing and presenting it in a proper documentation.  • Worked on McAfee VSE product for Stop worms, spyware, and viruses, get high-performance security, Lessen damage from outbreaks.  • Having Strong understanding of DLP Architecture.  • Experienced in performing automation on AWS and Google Cloud instances of a Three tier structure through Ansible playbooks.  • Configured a load balancer to divert traffic to different webserver's, and securing Apache and SSH through playbooks.  • Designed a backup database slave server which saves any data manipulation from the master database via the playbook.  • Designed IP tables playbook to restrict unknown connection reaching out the webservers.  • Experience in creating and deploying Docker containers.  • Manage and perform Nessus and Nmap scans before all production releases and analyse vulnerabilities and report to all stakeholders.  • Performs vulnerability assessments and penetration testing using automated tools on web applications.  • Examine assets to determine if vulnerabilities exist and if vulnerabilities are found proposes remediation strategies that can be applied to mitigate them.  • Implemented security fundamentals like SANS top 25.  • Perform remediation activities for Applications, OS, Database, Middleware, Digital Certificate, Layer Products, Java.  • Identify issues on sessions management, Input validations, output encoding, Logging Exceptions, Cookie attributes, Encryption, Privilege escalations.  • Proactively identified system vulnerabilities to reduce or eliminate potential exploitation using Nessus Security Center and Passive Vulnerability Scanning.  • Assist in vulnerability remediation efforts across various projects by proposing remediation strategies and engaging key stakeholders utilizing Plan of Actions and Milestones.  • Experienced in using Microsoft System Center 2016 Endpoint Protection and System Center Configuration Manager for blocking virus, worms via emails or documents and lessen damage from the outbreaks.  • Skilled in creating and managing security policies for firewalls, software hardening, policies implementation, prioritization, and deployment.  • Experience related to advance threat protection, firewall policy administration, network profiling and device health monitoring.  • Experience with industry recognised SIEM ( Security Information and Event Management) solutions such as SNORT, Splunk, Log Rhythm and many other tools.  • Worked on McAfee HIPS product for Get the broadest IPS coverage, Safeguard against malicious threats, Get automatic security updates, Protection around the clock.  • Identifying the critical, High, Medium, Low vulnerabilities in the applications based on OWASP Top 10 and prioritising them based on the criticality.  • Performed Symantec DLP environments management and support configuration as well as data security environments used in testing and configuring client sites prior to installation.  • Strong knowledge and experience in Symantec DLP workflow & architecture. Good Experience into Handling DLP False positive tickets.  • Implemented Symantec DATA Loss prevention to secure all end points. Configured and instrumented Symantec management console, Symantec management server and Symantec database on Oracle.  • Experienced in using Symantec DLP monitored the transmission of confidential data contained in corporate emails that were sent using Microsoft Exchange and downloaded to mobile devices.  • Assisted in monitoring and setting policies in EPO server, maintain updates on HBSS server, domain servers, and domain workstations, push McAfee policies to required computers, and Symantec to servers.  • Expert level understanding of ArcSight Implementation & its Integration with other N/W devices and Applications and the troubleshooting work.  • Expert Understanding to develop the complex Use Cases, Universal device support Modules on the ArcSight SIEM.  • Integration of different devices/applications/databases/operating systems with ArcSight SIEM.  • Performed task related to cleaning up log auto-discovered sources in ArcSight by identifying duplicates, correcting misidentified log sources, and identifying log sources from their logs.  • Experience in editing building blocks to reduce the number of false positives that are generated by ArcSight and writing co-relation rules.  • Expert in installing SPLUNK logging application for a distributed environment.  • Experience in Automated and Manual Penetration Testing, Contractor Assessments, Source Code Review, Controls Assessment. Software Development of Customs Compliance Modules, Attacks, and Exploitation for Nessus and Metasploit.  • Worked on a multi-vendor platform with the checkpoint, Fortinet and Cisco firewalls requesting net flow for security compliance, coding, and pushing firewall rules after approval and troubleshoot incidents as required.  • Secure Email Gateway, Web-Marshal proxy gateway and Secure Connect Fortinet Firewalls.  • Strong understanding of Security Information and Event Management Solutions (SIEM) to analyse and modify the existing SIEM solution and implemented QRadar SIEM.  • Skilled in Identifying security attacks using IBM QRadar SIEM and by proposing remediation or preventive actions after analysis implemented QRadar in the organisation.  • Skilled in Monitoring Critical assets like IBM QRadar, PIM, DLP, and DAM analysing them.  • Expert in Installation of Connectors and Integration of multi-platform devices with IBM QRadar.  • Experience in Integration of IDS/IPS to IBM QRadar and analyse the logs to filter out False positives and add False negatives into IDS/IPS rule set.  • Extensive knowledge of security controls (ISO/27002, NIST 800-53) used to implement regulatory compliance (NERC CIP, PCI, SOX, HIPAA) with IBM QRadar products.  • Review and updating System Security Plan (SSP) based on findings from Assessing controls using NIST SP 800-18 rev1, NIST SP 800-53a rev4, and NIST SP 800-53.  • Experience with Risk assessment using Industry standards like HIPPA, PCI/DSS and develop Security policy as per these standards.  • Actively pursued abnormal activity on assets that may be signs of compromise.  • Experience with industry recognised SIEM ( Security Information and Event Management) solutions such as SNORT, Splunk, Log Rhythm and many other tools.  • Antivirus McAfee Virus Scan Enterprise, Symantec, Endpoint Protection Suite • Conducts vulnerability scans and penetration tests to meet PCI requirements.  • Solid understanding of RSA authentication and Rapid 7 technologies • Perform vulnerability, configuration and compliance scan with Rapid7 to detect deficiencies and validate compliance with information systems configuration with the organisation's policies and standards.  • Experience in supporting, operation and troubleshooting the problems.  • Written Nmap scanner and multithreaded python program to brute-force an FTP server using a password file. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SR. PENETRATION TESTER CON EDISON, INC - New York, NY September 2018 to Present Responsibilities: • Executed daily vulnerability assessments, threat assessment, mitigation and reporting activities to safeguard information assets and ensure protection has been put in place on the systems.  • Actively monitored and responded to activity impacting various enterprise endpoints facilitating network communication and data handling (McAfee End Point Security, DLP, Splunk).  • Gather testing tools and methodologies and perform step by step Penetration testing by enumerating information.  • Good Experience in Metasploit Framework and Social Engineering.  • Involved in standardising Splunk forwarder deployment, configuration and maintenance across UNIX and Windows platforms.  • Conduct Malware analysis and investigate behavioural characteristics of each incident utilising IDS monitoring tools.  • Experienced with McAfee ePO, Nitro, Web gateway, DLP, Bluecoat Websense, ForcePoint, Proofpoint, Trend Micro, Nexpose (Rapid7) and Splunk Enterprise SIEM security tools to monitor network environment.  • Monitor and investigate SOC incidents and alerts with McAfee EPO.  • Good experience in working security management tool McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator (ePO) console and deploying the McAfee agents on the client side.  • Managing End Point Encryption and Infrastructure using MacAfee EPO.  • Use Splunk Enterprise Security to configure correlation search, key indicators and risk scoring framework.  • Performed wireless pen testing using Air cracking and analysed the network using Wireshark. Found network vulnerabilities using Nexpose and analysed web application using HP Fortify.  • Experience on vulnerability assessment and penetration testing using various tools like BurpSuite, DirBuster, OWASP ZAP Proxy, NMap, Kali Linux, and Metasploit.  • Experienced in working with Splunk authentication and permissions and having significant experience in supporting large scale Splunk deployments.  • Responsibility for policy configuration for all the McAfee components and the same is deployed to the clients.  • Proficient in Penetration testing based on OWASP Top 10 vulnerabilities like XSS, SQL injection, CSRF, Source code review assessment.  • Managed security incidents resulting from Splunk and third-party alerts, including investigation and remediation.  • Administer and maintain corporate DLP environments while structuring and documenting the corporate DLP infrastructure environments.  • Managed security incidents resulting from Splunk and third-party alerts, including investigation and remediation.  • Performed Symantec DLP environments management and support configuration as well as data security environments used in testing and configuring client sites prior to installation.  • Experience on vulnerability assessment and penetration testing using various DAST & SAST tools like BurpSuite, DirBuster, NMap, Nessus, IBM App Scan, Kali Linux.  • Used McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator to monitor and identify potential intrusions and attacks for the Security Operations Center (SOC).  • Managed security incidents resulting from Splunk and third-party alerts, including investigation and remediation.  • Conduct network Vulnerability Assessments using tools to evaluate attack vectors, Identify System Vulnerabilities and develop remediation plans and Security Procedures.  • Internal, External, White box, Black box, Grey box penetration testing. CYBER SECURITY ANALYST (INTERN) Marsh - Houston, TX April 2018 to August 2018 Responsibilities: • Designing architecture, implementation and Troubleshooting Cyber Security solutions like MacAfee, HP ARC SIGHT SIEM, IBM Q Radar and Splunk Solution.  • Conducted onsite penetration tests from an insider threat perspective.  • Migration of Data Center and Perimeter Security technologies to Cloud security Technologies.  • Designing architecture, implementation and Troubleshooting Vulnerability Assessment and Penetration testing solutions using Nessus, Nmap and Qualys.  • Performed host, network, and web application penetration tests.  • Maintain McAfee ePO environment in optimum performance and compliance standards.  • Use Splunk Enterprise Security to configure correlation search, key indicators and risk scoring framework.  • Documentation regarding DLP administration, scanning, reporting, and remediation.  • Analysis of Offenses created based on vulnerability management tools such as Rapid7 • Developed Black Box Security test environments & conducted tests as part of the team for precautionary measures.  • Developed approaches for industry-specific threat analyses, application-specific penetration tests and the generation of vulnerability reports.  • Responsibility for policy configuration for all the McAfee components and the same is deployed to the clients.  • Use Splunk Enterprise Security to configure correlation search, key indicators and risk scoring framework.  • Performed risk assessments to ensure corporate compliance.  • Symantec DLP and RSA DLP architecture and implementation for enterprise level companies.  • Developed detailed remediation reports and recommendations for compliance and security improvements across industries based on changing threats.  • Troubleshooting issues related to McAfee ePO servers (5.x), VSE 8.x and HIPS.  • Performed Vulnerability Assessments and Data Classification and their impacts.  • Use Splunk Enterprise Security to configure correlation search, key indicators and risk scoring framework.  • Performed application security and penetration testing using IBM AppScan.  • Use Splunk Enterprise Security to configure correlation search, key indicators and risk scoring framework.  • Managing Security tools DLP, SIEM, Vulnerability scanner and Penetrations test.  • Perform automated and manual security assessments to identify configuration and patch related vulnerabilities using commercial and open source tools.  • Configuration, troubleshooting, and management of Websense Data Security (DLP).  • Monitoring McAfee dashboard for updated DAT versions in all the client. IT SECURITY ANALYST RECKISTER INFOTECH - Delhi, Delhi January 2014 to July 2017 Responsibilities: • Testing, troubleshooting, level II support, documentation, training and technical expertise are services provided.  • Risk Assessment using Cyber Security Frameworks like NIST, OCTAVE, GLBA • Assisted Lead Auditors in Audit data collection and Documentation.  • Created checklists and collected audit data for compliance with SOX and PCI certifications • Installed, configured, and updated Linux machines, with Red Hat and CentOS. Won two quarterly awards for my willingness and ability to work outside my speciality and assist other departments.  • Resolved security vulnerabilities by analysing and recommending improvements in communications and network security at the component level • Ensured business continuity by designing, implementing and testing disaster recovery systems • Created checklists and collected audit data for compliance with SOX and PCI certifications • Developed, implemented and verified security policy and access management compliance • Monitored system performance and prevented resource exhaustion using ssh, sar, vmstat, iostat, netstat and nmon.  • Managed, monitored and tested individual and group user access privileges and security • Reviewed LAD configuration and Managed daily activities to include user support and system administration tasks • Analyse Pre-Implementation network documents for Firewall requests, SEC- ACLs and AppSense requests.  • Given Information Security oversight and guidance to businesses needing 3rd party connectivity as it relates to the company's Information Security Standards and IS Policies.  • Liaise with business and multiple technology teams (i.e. CATE Network Engineering; Proxy OPs and Integration; Perimeter Security Ops; System Based Computing; Remote Access Services and Business Information Security Officers; AppSense Implementers); to facilitate cross-functional solutions as it relates to 3rd party connectivity aligning with Company's Information Security Standards.  • Investigated alleged non-compliance issues and audited and monitored vital activities.  • Used Security tool like AlgoSec Firewall Analyzer, NetFlow, IDS, and IPS for analysis. Education Cybersecurity and Forensics Sacred Heart University - Fairfield, CT September 2017 to December 2018 Skills Penetration Testing, Forensic, CEH Additional Information Technical Skills    • Tools: Kali Linux, Parrot Linux, Tableau, Lotus Notes, ERP - SAP, Visio, QlikView, Oracle, Identity and access management  • Security Web Applications: TCP/IP OWASP, Nessus, Grabber, Zed Attack, Skipfish Hydra, Firewall, IDS, IPS, Acunetix, Arachni.  • Languages and Database: SQL, Java, C++, Visual Basic, Javascript, JSON, Python, Bro, ASP.NET MVC, PowerShell, PowerBI, STIX, Bash Scripting  • Automation: Ansible, Docker and Kubernetes  • Forensics: FTK Imager, Registry viewer, Volatility, Encase  • Networking & Frameworks: DNS, DHCP, SSO, SAML, NAT, PCI-DSS  • Continuous Monitoring: Vulnerability Management, Web Application Scanning, ThreatProtect, Cloud Agents, Asset Management, Sourcefire, Nexpose, Forcepoint, Rapid7, Netparker, OPENVas  • Event Management: RSA Archer, Blue Coat Proxy, Splunk, NetWitness, LogRhythm, HP ArcSight  • PenTest Tools: Metasploit, NMAP, Wireshark, Routersploit and Kali  • Security Software: Nessus, Ethereal, Nmap, Metasploit, PFsense, Snort, RSA Authentication,  • Frameworks: NIST SP 800-171, ISO 27001/31000, HIPPA, HITRUST CSF, PCI DSS  • Other: GitHub, Bitbucket, JIRA.