Information Security Analyst Information <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Information Security Analyst An energetic, dedicated and highly motivated professional with 4 years' experience working as an IT SECURITY ANALYST. I have acquired excellent practical skills in performance, development, implementation, and experienced in analyzing information requirements and delivering cost effective solutions. I am open to any IT Security position where I could utilize my versatile knowledge and skills to meet the organization's desired goals. Work Experience Information Security Analyst Solera Health Inc - Phoenix, AZ March 2018 to October 2018 Duties Included:  • Assisting in providing first level response to Security Incidents and events including but not limited to email spam/phishing attacks, malware infections, denial of service attacks, privileged account misuse, unauthorized access and network/ system breaches.  • Participating in conducting risk assessment on Solera's network partners and cloud vendors  • Analyzing security alerts, incidents, and requests; identifying root cause; determining and executes appropriate steps for resolution. Escalating security incidents/problems as required.  • Continuous monitoring and reviewing of Solera Health security information and event management (AlienVault SIEM) tool for high priority security alerts.  • Daily monitoring, patch management and vulnerability scanning using Qualys cloud based vulnerability scanner  • Consistently reviewing and adhering to Solera Health information security policies and procedures that meet HIPAA, HITRUST, Solera Health business associates and legal requirements  • Assisting in implementing state-of-the-art information security software and hardware systems.  • Participating in auditing and reviewing of information security assets hardware and software inventory and recommend for change/upgrade through the change management process.  • Reporting and preventing with best efforts any harmful or suspicious activities known to Solera Health of a use or disclosure of ePHI in violation of HIPAA, HITRUST, Solera Health and/or a business associate's policies and procedures and/or Federal/State and Local Laws.  • Performing eDiscovery and quarterly DRP/BCP drills per company policies and procedures.  • Cooperating with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of Civil Rights, other legal entities, and organization officers in any audits or investigations  • Participating in the yearly review of all SaaS (AWS, MS Azure, SalesForce) applications by comparing it with other cloud vendors/competitors.  • Attended HITRUST CSF training, information security training classes and conferences to improve awareness of the latest security threats and security defenses. IT Security Analyst Datalogic Solutions - Ashburn, VA January 2016 to February 2018 Duties Included:  • Supported enterprise security information and event management (splunk SIEM) system.  • Assisted in monitoring, detecting and isolating incidents happening in the organization's security products, network devices, end-user devices and systems.  • Using NIST to provide guidance in its NIST 800-37 RMF to comply with this FISMA requirement. Was able to categorize information system using FLPS 199, selecting security control using NIST SP 800-53 or FLPS 200, Implement security control using NIST 800-18 as a guide for developing of SSP, assisting in assessing security control using NIST SP 800-53A and continuously monitor using NIST SP 800-137  • Reviewed security alerts, daily reports and followed up with investigation to remediation.  • Performed port scanning and full packet capture PCAP analysis using Wireshark.  • Participated in administering IDS/IPS and reviewing logs from IDS/IPS (Snort, Tripwire).  • Performed application, network, and system troubleshooting.  • Manually reviewed logs and provide documentation guidelines to business process owners and management.  • Assisted in continuous monitoring of the A&A process by testing of security controls and vulnerability scanning.  • Assisted in conducting Risk Assessment (RA) using NIST 800-53A and NIST 800-30 as a guide.  • Reviewed and updated current security documentation, SOPs, networking maps, and system diagrams.  • Communicated effectively through written and verbal means to co-workers, subordinates and senior leadership.  • Reviewed POA&M and security controls Information Assurance Officer Siemens AG - Grand Prairie, TX December 2014 to January 2016 Duties Included:  • Applied current computer science technologies and Information Assurance (IA) requirements to the analyst. Design development, evaluation, and integration of computer/communication systems.  • Assisted in the SDLC, software debugging and input validation processes.  • Performed on-site security testing using vulnerability scanning and penetration testing tools such as Nessus, Nmap/Zenmap and kali Linux.  • Supported the SOC analyst in collecting security events from different security logs using SIEM tools and creating security incident ticket.  • Determined security controls effectiveness (i.e. controls implemented correctly, operating as intended, and meeting security requirements).  • Worked with other team members in implementing SANS-20, ISO 27001 security controls and meeting PCI DSS compliances.  • Prepared and delivered oral IA-focused presentations to technical and non-technical groups.  • Assisted with security policies review, security alerts, guidance, regulations and technical advances in IT Security Management.  • Ensured that data, which contains PII, is continuously protected from unauthorized access, use, modification and disclosure. Education Masters of Science Vrije Universiteit (Free University of Brussels) - Brussels, IL September 2010 to September 2012 Bachelors of Science University of Buea October 2003 to July 2006 Skills FEDERAL INFORMATION SECURITY MANAGEMENT ACT (2 years), firewalls (Less than 1 year), FISMA (2 years), Mainframe (Less than 1 year), Network device (Less than 1 year) Additional Information • Experience in vulnerability management and penetration testing tools (Nessus, Web Inspect, Qualys Wireshark, Kali Linux).  • Experience working with Nmap, Zenmap, protocol analyzers and other packet exploiting tools on both Linux and Windows OS.  • Experience in using ManageEnging ticketing and Change Management system..  • Familiar in VMware and Virtual Machines technology.  • Experience in securing network devices (e.g. switches, firewalls, IDS/IPS, routers).  • Adequate knowledge of packet flow, TCP/UDP traffic, the OSI model, firewall technologies, IDS/IPS technologies, proxy technologies, antivirus/ anti-spam filtering, DLP and spyware solutions.  • Proficient in securing, managing data and databases.  • Proficient in handling PII, ePHI, conducting privacy assessments (PTA, PIA and SORN) and plans System Security Checklists.  • Adequate knowledge of the NIST RMF, HIPAA, ISO/IEC 27001, SOC 2 Type II and PCI DSS compliance.  • Excellent ability to work well in a group or team setting with exceptional analytical and communication skill  • Adequate knowledge on FISMA systems, FISMA Reporting Metrics    TECHNICAL SKILL    • FISMA steps/process or C&A/A&A/ATO/SCA process  • POA&M (Plan of Action and Milestone)  • Operating system (platform): windows 2008, 2012, Mainframe servers  • Network device: firewalls, anti-virus software,  • Excellent verbal, written, and interpersonal communication skill