IT IRM: Security Analyst/ Security Incident Investigator / Soc Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> IRM: <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span>/ <span class="hl">Security</span> Incident Investigator / Soc <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Senior IT Security Analyst Atlanta, GA Dear Hiring Manager,    I feel that my skills and experience are a great fit for this position. Please feel free to contact me to arrange an interview. I look forward to learning more about this opportunity.As a certified Network Security Engineer I would bring a comprehensive understanding of the latest networking platforms and the perspective of a computer hardware expert to your organization.    In my current position I am required to log all security incidents and then resolve each one as quickly and completely as possible. My eye for detail and my dedication to finding the right solution to a given problem have given me a reputation for success in my field. I am also known for working long hours and completely analyzing a problem to prevent a recurrence.Your company has seen rapid expansion over the past 12 months and you require a Information Security Analyst with my credentials to keep your network secure. I spent more than a year developing the manual for IT Security at my current company and that manual is used to train new technicians at company locations around the world. I would bring that level of experience and expertise to your organization.    My innovative and effective approach to being a IT Security Analyst is what makes me the best candidate for your organization. I await contact from you to discuss my credentials and arrange a meeting at your earliest convenience.    thanks & regards,  Srujan kumar munangi. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT IRM: Security Analyst/ Security Incident Investigator / Soc Analyst coca-cola - Atlanta, GA May 2017 to Present • Monitor network traffic to detect and mitigate any potential threats.   • Analyze alerts triggered via the SIEM Tools.  • Investigate and analyze malicious traffic reported by local Host Intrusion Detection System.   • Investigate and Hunt down compromised accounts and Conduct proactive monitoring, investigation, and mitigation of security incidents.  • Analyze security event data from the network (IDS, SIEM).  • Perform static malware analysis on isolated virtual servers.  • Recognize potential, successful, and unsuccessful intrusion attempts and compromises thorough   reviews and analyses of relevant event detail and summary information.  • Processed Data Loss Prevention (DLP) events in Exchange Rules to identify any violation of the   Security Policy , Search firewall, email, web or DNS logs to identify and mitigate intrusion attempts.   • Investigate malicious phishing emails, domains and IPs using Open Source tools and recommend proper blocking based on analysis.   • Proposed and tuned out use-cases for better monitoring.  • Assist in managing hosts through Microsoft Tools.   Leadership Achievements:  • Used and maintained various security tools  • Trained Tier 1 on how to analyze security threats and understand security concepts  • Created a PowerShell script that deletes the mass phishes based on any given string.  • Developed multiple knowledge base documents that resulted in a faster resolution for users  • Analyzed security threats for managed services customer networks   • Monitored SIEM tools for threats and vulnerabilities.  • Review All Incidents and alerts created  • Solved various security threats for customers.  • Automated use cases to create alerts and reports,   • Worked to Automate use cases, created Dashboards, alerts and reports through Splunk.  • Worked on Web Application Assessment and assisted Application Security Assessment team to provide remediation Based on OWASP and SANS top Vulnerabilities  • Conducted Pentest on web applications using Burp Suite and Automated test using App-Scan IT Security Consultant HCL Technologies April 2013 to November 2014 • Continuously involved with mitigating malware on user machines. •   • Reviewed security and event management logs within the enterprise and investigate suspicious activity through various data visualizer on Qradar  • Monitored antivirus/Antimalware server consoles such as Malwarebytes for malware remediation and network sensors for lateral movement within the enterprise. Education Masters in Info, Network & Comp Security NYIT - USA, NY January 2015 to December 2016 Skills MySQL (2 years), Splunk (2 years), Exchange Operations (2 years), Symantec (2 years), Fire-Eye analyst (2 years), Network Security (2 years), Powershell (Less than 1 year), defender ATP (Less than 1 year), Source fire Analyst (Less than 1 year), Service Now Incident Management (2 years), Information Security, It Security, Cyber Security, SOC, Incident responder (2 years), pentest (Less than 1 year), burp suite (Less than 1 year), app scan (Less than 1 year) Certifications/Licenses CEH Additional Information Hands-on experience with SIEM Tools like-Splunk, Symantec, Windows Defender ATP, exchange ATP, Advanced Threat analytics, Fire-EYE, Service Now, Symantec ATP, Exchange Admin tools, Sourcefire, Netwitness  Programming skills in Java, Python, and SQL