IT Security Analyst - Threat and Vulnerability Management <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> - Threat and Vulnerability Management IT Security Analyst - Threat and Vulnerability Management - Express Scripts Lake Saint Louis, MO To obtain a challenging Penetration Testing position where I can use my skills to simulate potential attackers and  remediate gaps in security controls. Work Experience IT Security Analyst - Threat and Vulnerability Management Express Scripts - St. Louis, MO August 2018 to Present ? Performed analysis on vulnerabilities to determine their residual risk to the environment.  ? Implement secure configuration scanning and developed Nessus audit files  ? Coordinated with platform teams in order to get vulnerabilities prioritized and remediated IT Security Analyst KellyMitchell Group / Express Scripts - St. Louis, MO October 2017 to August 2018 Scrutinize system architecture on over 40 applications to ensure all entitlements on the Application  Operating System, and Database layers are being reviewed per SOC2 compliance  ? Coordinate with application teams to host meetings regarding the SOC2 entitlement process  ? Assist in ensuring that the access review team understands all entitlement sheets, prior to launching a review to ensure compliance Systems Engineer Da-Com Corporation - St. Louis, MO September 2016 to October 2017 Responded to all security incidents, internal and external on over 40 networks, identifying threats  and ensuring there were no active breaches on any client networks  ? Participated in preforming forensic analysis and restoration throughout a ransomware attack  ? Configured new set-ups for 40 clients including firewalls, active directory accounts, VPNs, emails,  and workstations ensuring a smooth transition to a new device or onboarding a new employee  ? Troubleshot a wide variety of issues including servers, laptops, multi-function printers, networking  devices, and line of business applications  ? Created and maintained network architecture documentation to insure efficient planning and execution IT Support Wainwright Industries - Wentzville, MO September 2015 to September 2016 Used Spiceworks to ensure tickets were resolved and documented  ? Documented a security report detailing current risks to the corporation  ? Troubleshot general PC, Server, and Database issues to ensure maximum up time for operations IT Security Lab Assistant Missouri State University - Springfield, MO February 2015 to May 2015 Taught students the fundamentals of cybersecurity through interactive labs using Kali Linux and VMware  ? Problem solved when students had difficulty completing the security labs Education Masters of Science in Cybersecurity in Cybersecurity Maryville University - St. Louis, MO September 2019 Bachelor of Science in General Business in General Business Missouri State University - Springfield, MO May 2015 Skills security, Active Directory Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/douglas-kras Certifications/Licenses Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH) February 2019 to February 2022 A Certified Ethical Hacker is a skilled professional who understands and knows how to look for weaknesses and vulnerabilities in target systems and uses the same knowledge and tools as a malicious hacker, but in a lawful and legitimate manner to assess the security posture of a target system(s). The CEH credential certifies individuals in the specific network security discipline of Ethical Hacking from a vendor-neutral perspective. Security+ May 2018 to May 2021 Security+ certification is an international, vendor-neutral professional certification provided by CompTIA for IT professionals who want to become certified in IT security. The certification deals with various IT security topics such as cryptography and access control, as well as topics in the business-related IT subfields of risk management and disaster recovery.