Snr Governance Risk &Compliance Snr Governance Risk &amp;Compliance Snr Governance Risk &Compliance - Networking Unlimited LLC Fairfax, VA, 22033, US Work Experience Snr Governance Risk &Compliance Networking Unlimited LLC August 2018 to Present • Provide support for both Internal/External Auditors and Control Owners/Performers in the remediation of audit findings, SOX Exceptions and PCI findings.  • Analyzing and assisting teams with the creation of new controls (where Control Gaps are called out by the audit team), update policies and standards in response to Starbucks Technology requirements, for GRC.  • Utilizing RSA Archer daily for building out our controls library, inputting policy and standard changes, and reporting.  • Support controls & compliance readiness for GRC, ITGC controls measurement, monitoring and consulting.  • Support control design & operating effectiveness testing in Archer.  • Perform User Access Review (UAR) and assist in Segregation of Duties (SOD) analysis in applications such as Oracle and SAP • Project lead for Starbucks PCI Service Provider ROC and Merchant ROC globally • Liaison between Starbucks and PCI-QSA. IT Auditor (Risk &Controls) Freddie Mac August 2017 to April 2018 Maintain a centralized record of the department's risk/control and self-assessments, reviewing against the corporate standard, and providing feedback to bring submissions up to the corporate standard.  ? Assist Manager to create a risk- based testing approach and calendar.  ? Administer cyclical testing of controls to include creating test procedures, population/sampling, and inspecting or re performance testing, forming conclusions based on supporting material.  ? Create work papers that meet the department standard.  ? Review work papers submitted by others ? Administer monthly security access attestation process ? Track open issues and remediation activity.  ? Participate and record minutes of risk and control meetings ? Document the department's risk and control activities in job aid IT Security Analyst FORD October 2015 to August 2016 Make sure Risk is assessed, evaluated and proper actions have been taken to limit their impact on the information and information systems ? Conduct IT security controls risk assessment that include reviewing organizational policies, standards and procedures and provide advice on their adequacy, accuracy and in compliance with the Payment Card Data  Security Standard (PCI DSS) ? Conduct self - annual assessment (NIST SP 800 53A) ? Design and Conduct walkthroughs, formulate test plans, test results and develop remediation plans for each area of the testing ? Develop information security risks and vulnerabilities assessments and applied security controls to assure confidentiality, integrity and availability of information systems and associated data.  ? Analyze and update Risk Assessment (RA), Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA), System Security Plan (SSP), System Security Test and Evaluation (ST&E) and the Plan of actions and Milestones (POA&M). IT Security Analyst Nationwide Credit Corporation - Alexandria, VA, US August 2012 to December 2013 Conducted IT controls risk assessments that included reviewing organizational policies, standards, procedures and guidelines.  ? Perform HIPAA audit s and other related IT reviews (NIST, PCI) as prescribed in the annual plan ? Assisted project teams in the implementation of security measures to meet corporate security policies and external regulations (HIPAA, NIST) ? Developed HIPAA compliance reports, documenting auditing findings and development of corrective actions plans.  ? Identify weakness in the internal controls and opportunities to enhance operational efficiencies ? Audited Information Systems and applications within health systems and assessing control gaps.  ? Maintained appropriate security documentation for applications and systems ? Developed security control test plans and conducted in-depth security assessments of information systems that evaluate compliance of administrative, physical, technical, organizational and polices safeguards in order to maintain HIPAA compliance.  ? Work directly with the business units to facilitate IT risk analysis and risk management processes, identify acceptable levels of risk, and establish roles and responsibilities with regard to information classification and protection   • Engineers and Planners (Internship) June -August 2008/August 2011-March 2012 • Check all scheduled appointment and maintained up to date schedule files to ensure excellent and effective communication amongst co-workers.  • Supervised road construction on a daily basis.  • Worked on tender documents that resulted in the award of new contracts including a $1 Billion iron ore mining contract • Worked on deals to raise finance for newly awarded contracts. Some deals include • $50 million asset-backed facility from CAT Financial to support a $300 million contract.  • $30 million equipment financing facility to support operations • WCI Communities (Internship) January - August 2007 • Assisted the Project Manager in the day to day duties of the project's administration.  • Performed related duties and responsibilities as required.  • Researched and recommended solutions to design documents problems.  • Maintained accurate and up-to-date logs • Northrop Grumman, (Internship) May - July 2006 • Assisted in research and field change requests to solve structural design issues.  • Attended project coordination meetings • Performed additional assignments and responsibilities as requested • Assisted the Project Manager in the day to day duties of the project's administration.  • Prepared drawings and sketches to support work as required Education M.S in Cyber Security Webster University December 2019 B. S. in Civil, Environmental, and Infrastructure Engineering George Mason University 2010 Business Administration Wartburg College 2004 Additional Information ? Over 8 years' experience with Project Management and 7 years Information Assurance Experience  ? Specialized in Information System Auditing, Risk Management and Assessment, Project Management and  Security Assessment & Authorization  ? Expect knowledge and experience in FISMA, ISO 27001:2013, SSAE 16 (SOC1 & SOC 2), PCI DSS,  and HIPAA Frameworks, SOX 404 (ITGC CONTROLS TESTING), GDPR.  ? Ability to create and update Security Assessment and Authorization (SA&A) documentation in line with  company, industry and national standards  ? Possess very strong communication (verbal or written), analytical, organizational and management skills.  ? Information Security Professional with 7 years of experience in IT compliance, IT governance, vulnerability  assessments and management.  ? Specialties in Governance, Certification & Accreditation (C&A), National Institute of Standards &  Technology (NIST), Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS) and SP-800 Series Guidance, System  Security Continuous Monitoring and, Audit engagements, Testing of Information Technology controls and  developing Security policies, procedures and guidelines.