IT Service Desk Analyst II <span class="hl">IT</span> Service Desk <span class="hl">Analyst</span> II IT Service Desk Analyst II - Mount Sinai Medical Center Hialeah, FL Work Experience IT Service Desk Analyst II Mount Sinai Medical Center July 2018 to Present • Logs all incidents and requests using the Heat ticketing system.  • Troubleshoot basic network issues such as VPN Call, pinging printers and workstations, port security on different ports using putty.  • Triaging unresolved calls to Team Leader, Epic and other departments.  • Take ownership of user problems and follow up the status of problems on behalf of the user and communicate progress in a timely manner.  • Analyzes and resolves incidents and requests regarding use of application software or hardware.. Follows up with other support staff (service resources) involved in resolution to ensure incidents are resolved.  • Creating/ Assisting Physicians how to setup their emails on their Mobile Devices  • Assist Level 1 support with challenging tasks and calls. IT Service Desk Analyst I Mount Sinai Medical Center December 2014 to Present • Logs all incidents and requests using the Heat ticketing system.  • Troubleshoot basic network issues such as VPN Call, pinging printers and workstations, port security on different ports using putty.  • Triaging unresolved calls to Tier 2 Support, Epic and other departments.  • Take ownership of user problems and follow up the status of problems on behalf of the user and communicate progress in a timely manner.  • Analyzes and resolves incidents and requests regarding use of application software or hardware.. Follows up with other support staff (service resources) involved in resolution to ensure incidents are resolved.  • Creating/ Assisting Physicians how to setup their emails on their Mobile Devices  • Followed Up on Ready to be Closed and High Priority Tickets with IT Employees and IT Management.  • Interviewed Managers and Directors in regards to updated the IT Sag List on the Sharepoint.  • Assisted the Service Delivery Manager with updated the IT Sag List, on the Sharepoint. IT Security Associate Volunteer Mount Sinai Medical Center July 2018 to October 2018 • Created User Access Ticket with the Call Logging System ( Heat)  • Created users accounts ex: LDAP, Omnicell, Synapse, OneContent, Email Accounts  • Terminated employee's accounts, all systems they had access to.  • Created Quarterly Audit for their Agency users  • Used Symantec Console, enabled/disabled USB access and CD rom on pcs  • Grant access to employees to multiple network drives IT Intern Royal Caribbean LLC June 2014 to August 2014 • Ported employees phone service from At&t to T-mobile Carrier  • Used Netcom Database to update user information  • Used Tangoes Application to update users active line or terminate  • Used BMC Remedy Ticketing to resolved SRM tickets and closed them.  • Made incoming calls, used Sametime messaging and emailed users to follow up on any unresolved tickets. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in Psychology Florida International University - Miami, FL May 2015 Associates Degree in Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems Miami Dade College - Miami, FL May 2011 Skills Desktop Support, Help Desk, Service Desk, Active Directory Certifications/Licenses Security + - COMP001021144046 April 2017 to April 2020