Linux System Administrator Linux System Administrator Linux System Administrator Baltimore, MD Work Experience Linux System Administrator Lolubyte IT Consultant - Hyattsville, MD 2016 to Present MD  ? Linux system administration to include systems management, backup, storage management, user management and 24/7 support of Linux testing and production environment (Red Hat Enterprise Server, Centos, KVM and VMware)  ? Install, configure, maintain and administer Linux operating system and components  ? Diagnose and resolve problems associated with DNS, DHCP, VPN, NFS, and Apache  ? Set up and administer user and group accounts, setting permissions, web servers, file servers, firewalls and directory services with ability to diagnose basic Apache issues  ? Perform system and application troubleshooting and other related issues  ? Provide management of system process in areas like boot process, startup and system shutdown  ? Plan and execute packages, updates installations and other jobs necessary for optimal system performance using CRON and other configuration tools such as Puppet  ? Experience with inter networking using TCP/IP and maintain network  ? Provide support to the team and participate in IT overall management and development IT Security Analyst JHB CORE - Baltimore, MD 2015 to 2016 Assisted in enterprise security risk assessment and providing recommendations on enhancing critical infrastructure and network security operations.  ? Troubleshooting, repairing, testing and modification of Local Area Network (LAN), Wide Area Network (WAN) electronic services.  ? Performing system and application troubleshooting.  ? Performing IT Operations support in vulnerability management, media destruction, Personal Identifiable Information (PII) loss reporting, classified spillage reporting and wireless scanning.  ? Reporting security alerts and vulnerabilities for further investigation, isolation, eradication, and recovery.  ? Analyzing new cyber directives and providing recommendations to the modifications of existing policies required for compliance.  ? Participating in weekly compliance audits and assessments to ensure the organizational security requirements are met.  ? Ensuring software is patched and able to protect from threats. Volunteer America Chesapeake - Landover, MD 2013 to 2015 Installation and configuration of puppet and Nagios monitoring tool  ? Troubleshoot and resolve software and hardware problems, interface with vendor technical support to resolve problems and work with other technical staff on supporting their needs  ? Recommended and implemented relevant security controls to mitigate against risk and threats discovered during security assessments.  ? Identified and evaluated security risks, threats and vulnerabilities to computer systems and provided written and verbal evaluation.  ? Prevented intrusion, developed attack analysis and performed accident response duties as required and directed.  ? Performed Security monitoring and analysis.  ? Monitor security logs to determine security problems Education Bachelors of Arts in Political Science and Legal Policy University of Maryland Baltimore County - Baltimore, MD 2007 to 2012 Skills Linux