Teradata Database Administrator Teradata Database Administrator Teradata Database Administrator Lawrence, KS Work Experience Teradata Database Administrator WIPRO Technologies - Chennai, Tamil Nadu August 2013 to July 2014 Project Verde is to segregate IT systems on the Lloyds Banking Group platform to new standalone TSB bank. As  part of the project five million customers, eight million accounts, eight thousand staff and 632 branches migrated from LBG to the new standalone system.  Technologies: Teradata 12, UNIX shell scripting, Teradata SQL assist, Teradata Manager, Teradata  Administrator, and BTEQ.    • Analyzed business requirements, designs and documented technical specifications to design and redesign  solutions.  • Created, optimized, reviewed, and executed Teradata SQL test queries to validate transformation rules  used in source to target mappings/source views, and to verify data in target tables.  • Supervised and trained a team of ten personnel to assist in emergency changes and priority  implementations.  • Collaborated with development team in implementing Teradata recommended best practices while defining  Profiles, Roles, Alerts, Multi-Value Compression, and Backup.  • Identified & revoked more than 10,000 Object privileges to the Databases Users / Roles.  • Organized & chaired weekly team meetings, focused on targets & achievements.  • Automated & standardized the reporting system for failed batch jobs, and analyzed the root cause of their  failure.  • Communicated with the business users in understanding their requirements and business rules based on given documentation and worked closely with SOX analysts in understanding the compliance. IT Security Analyst I&AM, Lloyds Banking group June 2012 to July 2013 Identity and Access Management (I&AM) is an operational team of security administrators providing privileged  access to critical bank systems and business applications. Providing oversight of access controls including 'Break  Glass' emergency access, production gateway sign offs and Sarbanes Oxley (SOX) compliance.  Technologies: Mainframe z/OS, REXX, RACF, ACF2, CICS, IBM PCOMM, IBM DB2, Vision Plus, Falcon  Databases, UNIX, Vision Plus, IBM Tivoli, BMC Remedy, and HP Service Manager.    • Established, maintained and monitored complete identity management, including authentication, access to systems and data, define specific privilege to users, files and database management systems. Systems  include RACF, ACF 2, IBM DB2, Vision Plus, and Falcon Databases.  • Developed IT security internal control for SOX environment. Auditing for Internal control for IT governance  projects. Auditing domains such as Change Management, Access Management, and Operations for SOX.  • Troubleshoot and resolved SEV 1 and SEV 2 incidents within 15 minutes. Documented and reported the root cause of the incident in the given time.  • Collaborated with certificates team in securing file transfer from Mainframe to UNIX/Windows by using  Connect Direct and configured nodes, based on the type of the system.  • Improved the productivity of the team by 25% by creating procedure to identify re-scheduled and out of SLA  tickets in BMC Remedy. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science GITAM University - Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh April 2012 Master's in Computer Science University of Kansas - Lawrence, KS Additional Information Operating Systems: Window (all), UNIX, RHEL, Ubuntu, z/OS.  Databases: Teradata, IBM DB2, Oracle 10g, Falcon databases.