IT Security Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Security Analyst - BlueGreen Vacations Deerfield Beach, FL Work Experience IT Security Analyst BlueGreen Vacations - Boca Raton, FL 2012 to Present Regulate access controls for network rights and permissions for business employees and vendors to meet  compliance standards.  - Security assessments such as vulnerability scanning, risk analysis, and penetration testing were performed to provide understanding of current security concerns and take measures to prevent possible threats.  - Security audits and reviews were performed to ensure the organization meets and surpasses compliance  standards such as PCI.  - Reviewed current security processes and procedures to provide understanding and measures for improvement. Online Support Associate Fiverr - Deerfield Beach, FL 2012 to 2014 - Troubleshoot and resolve customer inquiries and concerns regarding the use of Fiverr's services along with any issues they may be experiencing.  - Application testing and analysis were performed prior to new updates being released to customers.  - Ensure accurate logging and tracking of all issues, technical and nontechnical, to provide the necessary  metrics for analysis of services to provide understanding for improvement.  - Design and execute vulnerability assessments to monitor fraud and other similar suspicious activities. Intern Broward Health - Fort Lauderdale, FL 2009 to 2009 Assist in the planning and integration of a major upgrade for the health facility. Assistance included testing  software and performing mock test with various software for bugs, compatibility concerns, and other  similar issues with the new system.  - Update and maintain online documentation of new applications and features provided within the upgrade.  - Resolve technical issues and concerns by troubleshooting hardware and software problems faced by the organization's employees. Education Masters of Science in Information Security Nova Southeastern University - Davie, FL 2013 to 2015 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Florida Atlantic University - Boca Raton, FL 2006 to 2011 Certifications/Licenses ITIL Foundation Certification September 2013 to Present