Senior IT Auditor Senior <span class="hl">IT</span> Auditor Senior IT Auditor - SamLin Consulting Work Experience Senior IT Auditor SamLin Consulting January 2018 to Present • Lead teams to work onsite with each facility's technical team and leadership to ensure recommendations are maximized.  • Conduct meetings with the IT team to gather documentation and evidence about their control environment.  • Evaluated the design and operation effectiveness of system controls such as access controls, business process controls, data interface controls, key controls and IT general controls.  • Plan and lead POA&M teams to remediate vulnerabilities of agency systems and their Cloud Service providers for low, moderate and high impact systems.  • Applies appropriate information security control for Federal System based on NIST 800-37 rev1, SP 800-53, FIPS 199, FIPS 200 and OMB A-130 Appendix III.  • Develop, review, and update Information Security System Policies, System Security Plans, and Security baselines in accordance with NIST, FISMA, OMB App. III A-130 and industry best security practices.  • Created standard templates for required security assessment and authorization documents, including risk assessments, security plans, security assessment plans and reports, contingency plans, and security authorization packages.  • Assist System Owners and ISSO in preparing certification and Accreditation package for companies' IT systems, making sure that management, operational and technical security controls adhere to a formal and well-established security requirement authorized by NIST SP 800-53A. Junior Information Security Analyst SamLin Consulting December 2015 to December 2017 • Conducted walkthroughs and documented gaps as part of the security assessment phase of the RMF process.  • Conducted meetings with the IT team to gather documentation and evidence about their control environment.  • Analyze and update System Security Plan (SSP), Risk Assessment (RA), Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA), System Security test and Evaluation (ST&E) and the Plan of Actions and Milestones (POA&M).  • Develop POA&M (Plan of Action & Milestones) document to take corrective actions resulting from ST&E (System Test & Evaluation).  • Communicates with peers by sharing (department) "best practices" and providing accurate, thorough documentation on "best practices" or other documentation tools.  • Designate systems and categorize its C.I.A using FIPS 199 and NIST SP 800-60 and conduct Self-Annual Assessment (NIST SP 800-53A).  • Lead ATO team to help remediate, validate, prepare and collate Security artifacts for the agency in order to pass their ATO and OIG audits.  • Lead ATO team to develop all ATO documents for new systems from categorization to continuous monitoring. Education Bachelor of Science Old Dominion University - Norfolk, VA