IT Security Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Security Analyst Jane is a Jr. Network Engineer/ IT Security Analyst with strong Security experience that excels at leading team members and coordinating organizational development functions. Work Experience IT Security Analyst January 2014 to July 2015 Administer company information security testing and protection plans.  • Oversee hardware infrastructure and keep updates with latest technology.  • Ensure software is patched and able to protect from threats.  • Make recommendations for mitigating identified risks.  • Identified and evaluated potential threats and vulnerabilities.  • Designed training manuals to increase security awareness throughout company.  • Monitored live systems to discover real-time threats.  • Demonstrated effectiveness of security controls. Jr. Network Engineer Williams Networking, LLC June 2013 to December 2013 Symantec Security and Backup Products- analyze security threats such as malware, spam and vulnerabilities.  • Responsible for Cisco firewalls which included collecting, archiving, analyzing firewall logs and generating reports out of it.  • Network cabling and layer 1-4 network switching  • Cloud based services - cloud implementation and support  • Network administration- data backup, security management, user account management, e-mail systems, connectivity and internet access under the supervision of a Sr. Network Administrator.  • Provided support for all software and hardware issues  • Firewalls, VPN, IPSEC, VLANs, DSL, Frame Relay, T1 and T3. Education B.S. Wilmington University - New Castle, DE Additional Information Skills:  • Computer Applications: MS Word, Excel, Access, PowerPoint, Picture Manager, Outlook, Windows NT Workstation/ Server4.0/ 2000/95/98/Plus, MS Office97/2007 Publisher  • Threat intelligence and Modelling  • Application Security  • Understands security techniques and technologies including Intrusion Detection, Threat Analysis and Malware & Trojan Research  • Data protection  • Security Information monitoring tools.  • Domain structures and Digital signatures.  • Network and Infrastructure security  • Experience with Unix, Linux, and Windows based operating systems  • Experience responding to information security incidents  • Vulnerability Scanning  • Intrusion Detection  • Decentralized logging infrastructures and automated log file analysis  • Anomaly detection techniques and technologies  • Security mechanisms( firewalls, load balancers, switched networks, applications and databases )  • Cloud Security  • Understands networking and application protocols  • Active directory  • Strong verbal, written and interpersonal communication skills  • Excellent problem resolution skills  • Ability to balance and prioritize work  • Fast Learner and great team player