SECURITY CONTROL ASSESSOR <span class="hl">SECURITY</span> CONTROL ASSESSOR SECURITY CONTROL ASSESSOR - Gavant Consulting Stafford, VA Detailed-oriented security control assessor with 3+ years of experience Risk Management Framework, NIST Special 800 Publications and FISMA. Familiar with FedRAMP. Experience in Microsoft word and excel. I am highly adaptive and have superior analytical and organizational skills. I am a fast learner, can multi-task, and can also work independently and as a contributing team member. I have a strong verbal/written communication skills and Technical Writing skill. In-depth knowledge of System Security Plan (SSP), Security Assessment Plan (SAP), SAR, Plan of Action &Milestone (POA&M), Risk Assessments and Contingency Planning. Strong problem solving, and analytical skills needed for effective product delivery. Ability to adapt and deliver in a fast paced and time sensitive environment Work Experience SECURITY CONTROL ASSESSOR Gavant Consulting May 2018 to Present • Conduct assessments on complex systems using common compliance assessment methodology, tools, and applications to determine adherence to Risk management frameworks.  • Complete all actions related to the security control assessment of using system NIST Publications Framework.  • Conduct Kickoff meeting for the Security control Assessment.  • Create security assessment plans (SAP) to requirements for identified security controls following NIST 800-53a, FISMA guidance.  • Review the information system the System Security Plan (SSP), and the Security Control Assessment policy and Procedures.  • Examine security documentation and artifacts to determine compliance with security control.  • Identify system risks and conducted vulnerability assessment in accordance with information system.  • Prepare the Security Assessment Report (SAR) containing the results and findings from the assessment. IT Analyst INTERN Daggers Group August 2016 to May 2018 • Used data to understand business patterns and trends in information assurance.  • Analyzed internal and external data through quantitative research.  • Communicated findings through standard reports.  • Promoted best practices in Authority to Operate (ATO), Assessment and Analysis (A&A), and Continuous Monitoring.  • Developed and/or enhanced standard operating procedures (SOPs) or processes.  • Assembled and review A&A artifacts for approval of ATO.  • Provided recommendation for improvement in existing process and process integration. Provided weekly activity report to the project manager. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Engineering & Technology Old Dominion University - Norfolk, VA May 2018 Skills Security, Word, Organizational Skills