Experienced Associate Experienced Associate Experienced Associate - PricewaterhouseCoopers Orange, NJ Work Experience Experienced Associate PricewaterhouseCoopers - New York, NY August 2017 to Present • Perform risk assessments of vendors/third-party (i.e. IBM, CBS, Harman) applications, systems, tools and infrastructure.  • Using knowledge of current IT security environment to effectively identify issues, assess their impact and develop  solutions with company divisions.  • Conduct network vulnerability assessments using tools to evaluate attack vectors, identify system vulnerabilities and develop remediation plans security procedures.  • Report to management concerns of residual risk, vulnerabilities and other security exposures, including misuse of information assets and non-compliance.  • Perform audits in wide range of environments and include Network Security, Disaster Recovery, System  Implementation, General Control, SOX, SSAE 16 and SOC 2 & 3 Attestation.  • Review IT General Controls for relevant technical components (that is; application, operating system, database,  network, and internet/remote access) supporting application or IT- dependent manual controls.  • Draft reports to management including recommendation regarding systems, internal controls, policies and procedures. Information Security Analyst Computer Science Corporation - Albany, NY August 2016 to May 2017 • Performed risk assessments for numerous acquisitions and re-evaluated sensitivity of the systems, risks, and mitigation strategies.  • Developed cyber security awareness trainings and promoted security awareness to internal employees and required  personnel.  • Oversees hardware infrastructures and maintains updates with the latest technology; ensure software is patched to prevent security threats.  • Performed vulnerability scans and analyzes results from vulnerability scans and assist with the remediation as necessary.  • Collaborated with vendors to review incident response and disaster recovery procedures and policies, implemented  NIST SP-800 series on corresponding project.  • Implemented company polices technical procedures and standards for preserving the integrity and security of data,  reports, and access.  • Communicated Security policies and strategies to individuals of varying technical abilities. IT Assistant University at Albany - Information Technology Services (ITS) - Albany, NY June 2014 to June 2016 Managed and maintained University's Data Center (over 200 production servers) and systems for University's  programs, applications and services.  • Diagnosed and set up new services, primarily wired and wireless connections across campus in data closets and departmental offices.  • Trained students, faculties and staff on campus technology services. Education B.S. in Business Administration in Information Technology Management University at Albany, State University of New York (SUNY) - Albany, NY May 2016 Skills ISO, ISO 27001, NIST, SECURITY, SOC Certifications/Licenses Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA) Present Additional Information SKILLS    • SSAE 16, SOC 2 & 3 Attestation • NIST Series & ISO 27001  • Risk Assessments/Impact Analysis • Policy Planning /Implementation  • Network and System Security • Third Party Vendor Management