Cyber Security Analyst Cyber <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Cyber Security Analyst - Wipro Frisco, TX Security Analyst with over 2 years of experience and expertise in IT and over 1 year experience in  monitoring network infrastructure using QRadar and Azure Security Center. Proven record of evaluating  system vulnerability, compiling actionable analysis, reporting threats and escalating it to tier 2 engineers Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Cyber Security Analyst Wipro - Plano, TX February 2017 to Present Performed real-time monitoring, security incident handling, investigation, analysis, reporting and escalations of security events from multiple log sources using SIEM tool called QRadar.  ? Provided information regarding intrusion events, security incidents, and other threat indicators  and warning information in a ticket using Service Now ticketing tool.  ? Documented all activities during an incident and provide support with status updates of incident.  ? Implemented, as directed, appropriate response measures to security threats.  ? Analyzed a variety of network and host-based security appliance logs (Firewalls, Work Stations,  AD) to determine the correct remediation actions and escalation paths for each incident.  ? Categorized support problems and responded with the appropriate level of urgency.  ? Defined and update security standards and checklists.  ? Worked with various departments to improve detection of security threats and breaches. IT support / Asset management Raytheon / CSC - Dallas, TX 2016 to 2017 Provided troubleshooting assistance and ticket resolution for personal computer users.  ? Supported computer users with installation of basic hardware and software.  ? Diagnosed and troubleshoot problems with individual or multiple computer systems in order to maintain proper functioning.  ? Assisted with computer studies, projects, and implementation of policies throughout area of assignment. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology and security Northeastern Illinois University - Chicago, IL 2012 to 2016 Skills integration. (Less than 1 year), INTEGRATOR (Less than 1 year), operations (Less than 1 year), Security (1 year), SIEM (1 year) Additional Information Skills  ? Experience in SOC environment  ? Knowledge of SIEM tools such as Qradar and Splunk.  ? Understanding of TCP/IP, ports and protocols.  ? Log source integration.  ? Ability to excel in a face paced, challenging, operations environment with 24/7 shifts  ? Ability to administer the operations of a security infrastructure  ? Multi tenant environment and shared service model exposure.  ? Work per Cyber Kill Chain model.