IT Security Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Security Analyst Sewell, NJ I have a desire to obtain a position with an organization that will allow me to continue to build on my IT Security and Network experiences that are a blend of operational, technical, and security responsibilities. Work Experience IT Security Analyst Campbell Soup World Headquarters 2008 to Present Maintain and monitor the IPS/IDS devices within the network. Plan and schedule device replacement between different sites globally and the third party IPS/IDS provider. Respond to any type of incident that occurs within the environment and work with others to decide the best course of action to stop and eliminate the current risk and prevent future occurrences. Develop an Incident Response Process using the current tools provided and how to optimize each tool to help respond quickly and efficiently to any incident. Setup a yearly black box penetration test with a third party against VPN devices, firewalls, and other public facing devices. Handle an exception database which keeps records for policy changes that go against the company standards. Develop a security awareness program for the end users to help inform them of the risks that exist on the internet. Conduct application vulnerability testing on internal applications in order to produce reports with suggestions on mitigating results. Campbell Soup World Headquarters January 2008 to August 2008 Security and Compliance Monitoring    Monitor the network using our managed security service(MSS) provider portal to gather information from the IPS and IDS devices in order to identify anomalies that could possibly be misconfigured devices or malicious users. Report on the network anomalies and make suggestions based on the raw logs, advice from the MSS, ePolicy Orchestrator, and other information provided by tools that are available. Review current security standards and make suggestions based on new vulnerabilities and business best practices. Office Consultant Rutgers University Residential Networking September 2006 to December 2007 Inform users that break the network utilization policy why there internet connection is temporally disconnected and how the floating scale worked. Provide end user support if the help desk was unable to resolve their issue, this includes malware, spyware, viruses, network issues, etc Support the network switches on the different campuses. Network Associate Rutgers University Residential Networking June 2007 to September 2007 Mount new Cisco workgroup switches in 22 networking closets across campus. Verify the stacks of switches are communicating properly with each other through the back plane. Test the high availability uplinks from each stack to the core router to verify the fiber connection is working properly. Review the code on each switch to ensure that the switches have been updated to the acceptable firmware level. Education BA in Computer Science Rutgers - New Brunswick January 2006 to January 2008 Associates in Engineering Science Gloucester County College - Sewell, NJ 2003 to 2005 Washington Township High School - Sewell, NJ 1999 to 2003