Freelance Freelance Freelance Charlotte, NC Recent IT graduate seeking entry-level position into an Information Security Analyst position within an  organization where my education and skills can be utilized to their fullest potential. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Freelance Self Employed - Charlotte, NC January 2018 to August 2018 Analyst  ? Planned built and operated specialized computer components for data processing  ? Helped develop, fork and launch a cryptocurrency, with a goal of funding open source software  ? Maintained websites for community projects both front end and back end I.T. Security Analyst Intern Orange County Government - Orlando, FL January 2016 to September 2017 Researched and Tested facial analytics through both Next Level Systems and Avigilon for future progress  in physical security.  ? Piloted implementation of Active Directory Groups through Avigilon ACC  ? Managed Users and Administrators for use of CCTV through Avigilon ACC  ? Maintained all County Security CCTV Servers  ? Upgraded hardware and software for the 23-story Orange County Courthouse video management system  ? Responsible for CCTV System Design and planned with the use of Microsoft Project and Microsoft Visio,  including pricing analysis, creating schedules, hardware and software requirements, and coverage maps  ? Monitored, recorded incidents, and maintained all video system equipment and software  ? Penetration tested IP CCTV equipment and web servers with a focus on SQL injection  ? Scanned Network Ports and monitored traffic to prevent any unnecessary open ports on servers and systems Clerk III Hewlett Packard Enterprise - Tallahassee, FL February 2013 to September 2014 Investigated health care provider information to confirm all data was accurate on Agency for Healthcare  Administration applications  ? Logged, scanned and transmitted provider information directly to Florida Department of Law  Enforcement  ? Maintained accurate records of completed work and information on current investigations  ? Created and Processed SQL queries for customer and health care provider analytics Education Bachelor's Degree in Information Technology Management Florida State College of Jacksonville December 2017 Skills SQL (3 years), JAVASCRIPT, PHP, VISIO (1 year), MICROSOFT VISIO (1 year) Additional Information Technical Skills  Software: Microsoft Visio, Microsoft Projects, Avigilon, Next Level, Kali Linux, OWASP, Burp Suite, Microsoft  Remote Server Administration Tools  Programming: Python, SQL, PHP, JavaScript