IT Security Analyst (ISSO) <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> (ISSO) IT Security Analyst (ISSO) - Golden SVCS Laurel, MD IT Security Analyst with four years of experience in Information Technology and over three years of experience in security risk assessments and managing security controls. Possess excellent analytical/strong initiative and qualifications required to excel and succeed. Continuously upgrading and readily prepared to take on new challenges, absorb and easily adapt to any emerging technology. Instrumental in implementing solutions based on information security frameworks, conceptualizing information security policies and ensuring compliance with security standards. Work Experience IT Security Analyst (ISSO) Golden SVCS 2016 to Present Contribute to initiating FISMA metrics, including Annual Testing, POA&M Management and Program Management as well as cultivating supporting risk-based decisions and security impact investigation.  ? Accomplished Security Control Assessment (using the Risk Management Framework) according to NIST SP 800-53A and acclaiming solutions besides fulfilling vulnerability scanning with Nessus.  ? Maintained standard templates for obligatory security assessment and authorization documents, including risk assessments, procedures, work instructions, plans and manuals.  ? Authenticated as well as revised System Security Plan (SSP), and confirming Security Assessment Report (SAR), Security Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&M) and Authorization letter Memorandum (ATO).  ? Controlled engineering development for the security design of systems by providing advice and assistance to system owners, admins and developers.  ? Emerged system-specific ATO schedules to safeguard all activities according to the master schedule using project management skills and leveraging the MS Office products to build documents.  ? Utilize processes within the Security Assessment and Authorization such as system security categorization, Contingency Plans, Security testing and evaluation, System accreditation, and Continuous Monitoring. IT Security Analyst Jelani Solutions 2015 to 2016 Manage and coordinate a team of information security professionals to conduct Security  Authorization packages based on NIST standards for general support systems and major  Applications.  ? Provide input to management on appropriate FIPS 199 impact level designations and identify  Appropriate security controls based on characterization of the general support system or major  Applications.  ? Develop and maintain Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&M) of all accepted risks upon Completion of system (A&A)  ? Risk Management Framework (RMF) assessments and Continuous Monitoring: Performed RMF  Assessment on several different environments using both scanning tools and Manual assessment.  ? Assessment included initiating meetings with various System Owners and Information System Security Officers (ISSO), providing guidance of evidence needed for security  Controls and documenting findings of assessment. Education BS in Cyber security Management and Policy UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND - Largo, MD Associate in Criminal Justice PRINCE GEORGE'S COMMUNITY COLLEGE - Largo, MD Skills Security, Nessus, Nist, Sap, Sar, Compliance management, Documentation Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    ? Review NIST guidance/compliance  ? Security Assessment & Authorization (A&A/C&A) Package  ? Security Test & Evaluation  ? NESSUS  ? Prepare Security Document (SAP, SSP, POA&M, SAR)  ? XACTA IA Manager  ? Review IT Policies and procedures  ? Reporting and Documentation  ? Security Analysis / assessment  ? Compliance Management