IT Security Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Jersey City, NJ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Security Analyst ING Financial Services - New York, NY May 2016 to Present • Experienced with IA Provisioning life cycle, RBAC, ACL, IAA  • Audit and identify the risk on privileged accounts like root and database (Oracle, Sybase) and mitigate the risk (IAM).  • Improving visibility to trust relationship, which determines who has the privileges on an account and data security regulations (IAM).  ? Re-designed the agency Internal control plan in compliance with the new regulatory guidelines  ? Ensure IT controls of the environment are secure and meet the required policies related to institution, federal, state, and local regulations.  ? Performed periodic Audits/reviews on Application and Department Access Rights to Improving visibility and trust relationship  ? Identified, triaged, and documented the instances of vulnerability areas and devices.  ? Work with data owners and Leadership Team to provide improved data protected reporting needs  ? Designee and provide workflows for developing reporting and change management  ? Administered Change Management practices for IT Operations and utilize Change Management best practices for optimum service by developing customized change plans and communication on key strategic business initiatives.  ? Worked on Incident Management / Problem Management / Change Management (Infrastructure/Application) and Change Advisory Boards (CAB) approvals Audit Intern Deutsche Bank - Jersey City, NJ May 2015 to September 2016 • Assess security related production controls in lines with regulatory standards supporting IT and business processes and finding potential gaps and communicate the risks to key stakeholders.  • Access Control, Access Management, Account Security, and work towards mapping them across the banks environment  • Liaise the FED (Federal Regulations of USA), USFRB, MAS (Monitory Authority of Singapore) and SOX regulators by providing required validation reports and compliance reports to close the compliance issues against application(s) by Auditing/validating the application  • Administered Change Management practices for IT Controls. Project Coordinator CMS Corporations - Hyderabad July 2011 to November 2013 ? Coordinate and supervised daily activities of a team of five Developers and one Network Manager.  ? Managed software development projects for both internal and externally facing applications.  ? Collaborated with product owners, remote internal IT resources and offshore vendors to create a new product line for BI services to the health care industry.  ? Supported user group of approximately 50 people, including network/PC support, development of software for both internal and customer use. Education Master's in Computer science Montclair State University - Montclair, NJ September 2014 to May 2016 Skills Microsoft office (8 years), Service now (1 year), Project Management, Entitlement reviews, Service now (1 year), CMDB (1 year)