Business Analyst - Business Development Business <span class="hl">Analyst</span> - Business Development Business Analyst and Entrepreneurial Guru Everett, MA Driven and proactive business analyst. Previous experience carrying out complex initiatives in fast paced, rapidly  growing organizations. Versatile skill set with experience in commodities trade, information technology, relationship management,  negotiation, and business planning. Detail oriented with award winning performance. Work Experience Business Analyst - Business Development Next Generation - New York, NY October 2011 to November 2012 • Determined the state of process through interviews, observations, and workshops. Looked for similar sales processes that could be grouped and automated.   • Understood the timing of the process steps with analysis of procedures and identified volume of rework through identification of system errors.  • Monitored KPIs and performed root cause analysis to provided recommendations to key stakeholders.  • Performed one on one formal interviews with key stakeholders to uncover requirements, create a traceability matrix, business impact assessments and handover documents.  • Indentified key stakeholders with organizational charts, business acumen, guidance from sales operations and previous project history. Business Analyst - Purchasing Royal African Products, Inc - Philadelphia, PA March 2010 to October 2011 • Stakeholder engagement by understanding the purchase process examples being CIF and FOB procedures. Understood stakeholder expectations by indentifying best method of communication. Developed RACI matrices for senior management.  • Researched international commodity and analyzed prices to assess contract fluctuations.  • Assessed suppliers’ manufacturing and distribution capabilities all while following market conditions, price trends, and futures markets to conduct acquisitions. IT Security Analyst Thomson Reuters FX (f.k.a. FX Alliance) - New York, NY January 2008 to February 2010 Worked with the Chief Information Securities Officer in leading the company to a perfect "no exceptions" SAS 70 audit report during tenure of employment. Analyzed system generated audit trails, reports, and other forms of raw, server-side data.  • Performed audits of the information technology environments, operating systems, and applications to ensure compliance with policies and procedures.  • Provided support and worked closely with the Security Architect in dealing with security incidents. Identified policy violations and escalated them for investigation by appropriate technology teams.  • Managed 300+ servers in three locations on the east coast via the Tripwire Web Console installed on a Level-1 UNIX based  system. Education ALB in Concentration: Science, Field of Study: Engineering Mathematics Harvard University - Cambridge, MA 2013 to 2015 Bachelor of Science in Information System Management Minor: Economics New York University - New York, NY 2009 to 2011 Skills Microsoft Office Suite (1998-Present), Proficient in Tripwire Web Console (2008-2010), Intermediate knowledge of UNIX command language (2008-2010), Basic knowledge of Structured Query Language (SQL)(2005-2010), Leadership and Entrepreneurship (2005-Present) Additional Information Activities: The Weigh In, President (2012-Present) The Free Project Group NPO, Founder/Director (2008-2011)  Languages: English (Fluent), French (Conversational), Spanish (Working Knowledge), Nzema (Fluent), Twi (Fluent)