PeopleSoft Security Analyst PeopleSoft <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Experienced professional, Graduate student Dallas, TX IT/Business Analytics experienced professional & graduate student from University of Texas, Dallas with major in Information Technology & Management and specialization in Management Consulting, Business Intelligence.     - Proficient in Business Architecture designing , Algorithms, Data Mining, Clusters, Proven decision making and problem solving skills.    Specialties:  - Business Process Redesign, Business Requirement Processing ,Technology Mapping, Processing Information Architecture, Business Intelligence & Data analysis, Strategy planning, Reporting, PeopleSoft Security, Application Testing.  - Quick Analytical thinking approach, Quantitative and statistical analysis.  - SAS, SQL , SQL Server 2008, Cognos, Microstrategy , SAP, PeopleSoft, TOAD, Crystal Reports , Java, C, Work Experience PeopleSoft Security Analyst Research & Operations , University of Texas Dallas - Richardson, TX January 2013 to May 2013 Responsibilities  Handling Security for university, Creating new permission list, roles. Improving security modules    Accomplishments  -Handled 35% of the ticket volume thereby increase team productivity and bringing down the average backlog from 85 issues to 42 within 2 weeks, a 50% improvement. Assisted with data transformation, data mapping & data mining.   -Customize PeopleSoft applications using Application Designer, SQL & Security in production environment HR and Financials.  -Develop Permission lists and roles using Oracle SQL in TOAD, saving time and leading to improved efficiency.  -Enhanced security model analysis script for access levels of users, leading to a 30% lowered turn around time for issues resolution.     Skills Used  PeopleSoft 9.1 , TOAD, SQL.    - Meeting deadlines  - Handling security issues.  - Knowing what security business users need and guiding them to their solution. IT Business Analyst Mercedes-Benz Financial - Fort Worth, TX June 2012 to December 2012 Responsibilities  Responsible for IT Consulting for business process and Cognos reporting    Accomplishments  -Designed & delivered automated management dashboard reporting using Cognos, Improved efficiency by saving 31 hours per week.   -Developed business case for decommissioning of Access database and migrating the data infrastructure to web-based platform.  -Conducted process discovery & mapping workshop for building broad and technology models of 122 processes to help the process owners in the development of Business process and technology Architecture. Conducted Cognos workshop for users.  -Established a strong relationship business analyst leads and managers, and IT stakeholders, while delivering the strategic outcomes.   -Diagnosed Cognos data extraction process used by business users in a conversion process of AQM servers to cloud based service.  -Analyzed, designed information architecture in SharePoint portals, configured & customized based on business user request.     Skills Used  Technology Mapping, IT Consulting, Business Process redesigning, Business process Architecture. COGNOS reporting Management Consultant Burns Control Company - Addison, TX January 2012 to May 2012 Responsibilities  Improve sales, Marketing strategies, technology introduction    Accomplishments  -Implemented a comprehensive business plan leading to improved Operational and Financial control processes.  -Carried out Root Cause/SWOT Analysis, Data Analysis, developed a value proposition, forecasted profits & evaluated risks.  -Performed a statistical analysis of market holders, which was presented in Panasonic's South Korea conference.  -The recommendations improved the sales by 30% in a period of 3 months and projected profits of 12% per year.    Skills Used  Management skills, Driving the client to desired results. Project Analyst Gameshastra Pvt Ltd - India May 2009 to June 2011 -Awarded as “Best Employee” for generating the highest number of programming bugs, which effect’s sales of the product.  -Develop and execute manual and automated test strategies,Identifying & reporting the findings, recommendations to developers.  -Increased productivity by managing group of 5, generating average of 14 bugs consistently where other team's average was 5-8. Education SAS Certification in Business Analysis The University of Texas at Dallas, School of Management. - Richardson, TX January 2011 to January 2012 Bachelors in Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University May 2011 Masters of Science in Information Technology and Management Naveen Jindal School of Management, University Of Texas at Dallas - Dallas, TX Skills Business Intelligence Tools: SPSS, Cognos 10, Cognos impromptu, Microstrategy, Crystal reports, SAS, SAS Eminer SAP: SAP Business Objects XI, SAP R/3, SAP Net Weaver, SAP Business Explorer Databases: SQL, MySQL, SQL Server 2008, Oracle 11g, TOAD Programming languages: C, Basic Java, HTML Tools & Applications: PeopleSoft 9.1, Application Designer, SharePoint 2010, MS VISIO, MS ACCESS Additional Information -Awarded & honored for serving as a panel member in Dean’s Disciplinary Committee at UT Dallas.  -Awarded IMPACT scholarship for valuable contribution at School of Management.  -Vice-President of Indian Students Association (ISA), Graduate Recruiting Manager for Dean’s Council at UT Dallas.  -Student leader of the year finalist, nominated by university Dean’s & officials.