Cyber Security Instructor Cyber <span class="hl">Security</span> Instructor IT Security Analyst/Incident Handler II - Boston University Mechanicsburg, PA A full time opportunity in the Information Security field with a focus towards Administration and DevOps. Work Experience Cyber Security Instructor Newberry Group - Baltimore, MD October 2018 to May 2019 ? Develop and present curriculum material to active duty Military personal  ? Conduct research in order to develop technical manuals for training  ? Provide students with experience and knowledge aligned with course learning objectives  ? Revise course materials as necessary to improve training effectiveness IT Security Analyst/Incident Handler II Boston University - Boston, MA November 2017 to August 2018 ? Provide analytical skill to detecting and investigating cybersecurity incidents  ? Lead SME on Vulnerability Management platform (Rapid7 InsightVM)  ? Maintain and operate campus border and VPN Palo Alto Firewalls  ? Provide 24x7 availability to respond to security events when required IT Security Operations Analyst I MIT Lincoln Laboratory - Lexington, MA November 2015 to November 2017 ? Maintain, and operate lab wide Vulnerability Assessment deployment ( Security Center/Nessus)  ? Administration of Bit9 Implementation  ? Triaging of McAfee Web Gateway Proxy issues via tickets and infrastructure changes  ? Revamped lab antivirus scanning of removable media (Python script to automate process) Senior Security Analyst Dell SecureWorks - Lisle, IL June 2014 to August 2015 ? Verify integrity and accuracy of network-based security events through packet-based analysis.  ? Investigated, triage, and escalated security incidents related to various attack vectors including XSS, SQLi, CSRF, etc.  ? Troubleshoot multi-vendor IPS/IDS systems (Soucefire, Cisco, Juniper, etc )  ? Execute real time traffic analysis  ? Provided customer support for security related incidents Education Bachelor's in Computer Security Rochester Institute of Technology - Rochester, NY May 2014 Skills Information Security, IT Security, Cyber Security, Intrusion, Incident Response, Python, Security Analyst, Active Directory Certifications/Licenses ACE Palo Alto Rapid7 InsightVM