IT Audit Intern <span class="hl">IT</span> Audit Intern Fairfax, VA Seeking an opportunity to utilize my skills and abilities in a well-established organization that offers professional growth while being resourceful, innovative and flexible. Work Experience IT Audit Intern ICMARC - Washington, DC June 2014 to Present Responsibilities  • Assist IT audit management and senior IT auditors perform a general computer controls audit, directly assisting Ernst & Young.  • Develop methodology for conducting regular access management, software development lifecycle and infrastructure change testing.  • Assist in security assessment of Windows and UNIX servers.  • Assist in developing a database for the department.  • Perform data mining and analysis in support of both IT and financial audits  • Develop procedure documents for different tools and methodologies for security assessments. Graduate Teaching Assistant George Mason University - Fairfax, VA Present Responsibilities  ECE 450 - Introduction to robotics  ECE 301 - Digital Electronics IT Security analyst HSBC June 2011 to July 2013 Duration 25 Months  Team Size 25  Following are the various types of tasks performed  • Manual/automated Web Application Vulnerability Assessments  • Risk Assessments  • Third party vendor management  • Network Security Assessments  • Windows Server Security Reviews  • Firewall Security Reviews  • Database server security reviews  • Information security audits    Role: Team Member  Responsibilities:  • Analyzed the risks involved in the new/existing projects going live and recommend with proper security controls.  • Performed information security audits on third parties, which provide services to HSBC in UK region.  • Identified possible threats in the application by threat modeling.  • Identified possible attack vectors and Configuring and running security tools  • Performed Web Application Penetration Testing to check for presence of security loopholes and vulnerabilities in given application.  • Compilation of a detailed report enumerating the findings, performing penetration attempts both manually and with the aid of tool.  • Performed UNIX, Windows server and Firewall security reviews according to the standards. Education Master's in Information Systems George Mason University Bachelor of Technology in Electronics and Communication Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Programming Languages: C, Java, SQL, Python,  Web Technologies: HTML 5,Photoshop, Flash  Middleware Technologies: Oracle 10g, MySQL.  Operating systems: Windows, Linux, Mac OSX.  Development Suites: Eclipse, X-code.  Penetration Testing Tools Nmap, Paros, Appscan, Nessus, Snort, Metasploit, Wireshark