Cyber Security Analyst Cyber <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> CYBERSECURITY ANALYST Wailuku, HI IAT2 Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Cyber Security Analyst Apex Systems - Honolulu, HI June 2014 to Present Cyber Security Defense Technician performing scans, deployments, testing, configuration of software and networked systems. Responsible for regional support at multiple sites, to monitor and maintain the highest level of security mandated by the DoD. IT Operations Specialist Jacobs - Dumfries, VA December 2013 to May 2014 Support DoD secured systems, develop imaging solutions, deploy image, manage AD accounts, configure and install secured peripherals. Perform anti virus and encryption solutions. IT Technician Epsilon - Asheville, NC September 2012 to December 2013 Provide helpdesk support, assist cyber training, manage account submissions, manage sharepoint and remedy tickets, develop and test image solutions, test and deploy captured image, manage and lead 3 technicians, support enterprise and infrastructure projects, review device documentation and knowledge support, troubleshoot network connectivity, printer queue, phone systems, use network monitoring tools, apply STIG guidelines to installed devices on DoD networks. Education Associate in LA UH Hilo - Hilo, HI 1982 to 1984 Skills ACAS, IBM Tivoli/BigFix, Retina, HBSS, Netcool, TACACS, JumpServer, Altiris, WDS, VSphere, Scripts, IDS. (4 years) Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ December 2000 to Present CompTIA Network+ December 2002 to Present Security+CE September 2012 to September 2018 IBM TIVOLI January 2016 to Present GK IB Training Certificate for BigFix deployment system DISA ACAS v4.0 November 2014 to Present Completed ACAS v4.0 Training from DISA ICS Cyber Emergency Response Team June 2016 to Present Industrial Control System training from ICS Cert sponsored by DHS VMD Health Care HIPAA Certification June 2016 to Present Knowledge and understanding of handling medical information and non-disclosure. HBSS May 2015 to Present DISA HBSS MR5 Additional Information Motivated individual, works well in team environment and can work alone if required. Dependable, courteous, good customer service skills. Can perform various IT skills, scanning, patching, network configurations, connectivity testing, remote security tools, IDS, network and reg queries, analyze threats, and system conditions.