IT Support Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> Support <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Support Analyst - American International Group Dallas-Fort Worth, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Support Analyst American International Group - Fort Worth, TX September 2017 to Present • Using the Service Now ticketing platform for all work related duties and calls for documentation and review. As well as for requests for myself and end users on all types of various services for the user.  • Active Directory support and administration as users network drives and for unlocking/resetting users LAN ID accounts.  • Provide support for up to 3500 separate applications and/or able to escalate to the correct resolver team or support group for that specific application or product.  • Using SSO and multi-factor authentication for password resets and account unlocks for end users.  • Helped implement and "teach" the A.I. GIA on the Amelia platform from IPSoft by spending time and treating it as an agent helping fix issues with various issues an end user may encounter.  • Troubleshoot and fix complex Microsoft Office 2010/2013/O365 issues.  • Installs and compliance checking of installs and when applicable, software management through Microsoft's SCCM.  • Wrote batch files for mapping network drives and automating some installs/uninstalls.  • RSA administration and token key distributor for end users.  • Airwatch administration, troubleshooting. Assisting users with various email, update and security issues; ensuring each device is up to compliance standards.  • Work individually, as a smaller team, and as a whole group as well to tackle issues in our department and keep driving us and our work forward to reach a better point of satisfaction for us and our customers. NETWORK MANAGER CD's Performance Automotive - Mansfield, TX March 2015 to December 2016 • Small office network architecture planning and execution. (4-5 Machines) Set up wireless printing for both offices we owned.  • Set up IP camera System for both offices with central hard drive recording that can be accessed from an application or on a web browser.  • Reset & kept record of passwords and changes, created new users, and troubleshoot network wide problems.  • Contacted ISP Incases of outage or problems regarding internet and phone services. L  • Made operating system updates and kept anti-virus databases up to date.  • Manage advertising for the business via promotional handouts, emails, Craigslist, and Facebook posts.  • Used and maintained MalwareBytes Anti Malware on all corporate computers. SECURITY IT ASSOCIATE STUDENT New Horizons Computer Learning Center - Fort Worth, TX August 2016 to October 2016 • Obtained knowledge in identifying security threats and vulnerabilities and manage data, application, and host security.  • Acquired the essential skills and information needed to install, upgrade, repair, configure, troubleshoot, optimize, and perform preventative maintenance of basic personal computer hardware and operating systems.  • Implement routing technologies; identify the major services deployed on TCP/IP networks and the infrastructure of a WAN implementation.  • Implement Firewalls and other types of intrusion prevention systems. Education IT Professional in CompTIA A+, Network+, Security+ New Horizons - Fort Worth, TX August 2016 to October 2016 High school or equivalent Skills SECURITY (2 years), LAN (Less than 1 year), MICROSOFT OFFICE (10+ years), ARM (3 years), Help Desk (1 year), Desktop Support (2 years), Service Desk (1 year), MAC, Active Directory (1 year) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/cameron-siggers-160535b2 Certifications/Licenses Network+ July 2017 to July 2020 CompTIA Network + Certification (N10-006) Security+ July 2017 to July 2020 CompTIA Security+ Certification (SY0-401) Additional Information SKILLS  Technical Skills  • OPERATING SYSTEMS: Installation, regular upkeep, and testing of Windows XP, 7, 8, & 10, Macintosh OSX & iOS, Linux OS distributions such as Mint, Ubuntu, Raspbian, and Kali on ARM or x86 based architectures.  • APPLICATIONS/SERVICES: VMware Fusion & Workstation, Microsoft Office, QuickBooks, Cinema 4D, Adobe Creative Suite, Terminal, Command Line, and FL Studio.  • PROGRAMMING LANGUAGES: Very Basic Python  • NETWORK TECHNOLOGIES: WAN/LAN, TCP/IP  • SECURITY: Firewall Controls  • Hardware/Software Trouble-shooting    Soft Skills  • Customer Service Critical Thinker Respectful Collaboration Attentive High Energy Adaptable Conflict Resolution