Security Analyst <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Security Analyst - ASM Research Beltsville, MD Work Experience Security Analyst ASM Research - Chantilly, VA October 2018 to Present • Perform Information Assurance tasks and Cybersecurity support for the Continuous Readiness Information Security Program (CRISP).  • Assess the Cybersecurity risk of IT systems documenting them in formal risk assessments and supporting artifacts associated with the Assessment & Authorization (A&A) process. Applies knowledge of security principles, policy and regulations to daily tasking.  • Researches policies, procedures, standards, and guidance, and applies needed changes under specific conditions for the protection of information and information systems.  • Familiarity with external connections, memorandums of Understanding and Interconnections Security Agreements.  • Support leadership to identify capability gaps in vulnerability management services by analyzing  Plans of Action and Milestones (POA&Ms) associated with the facility or system.  • Conduct analysis and aggregation of Security Control and POA&M evidence from various sources.  • Maintain knowledge of current RMF security trends and be able to clearly communicate them to the client.  • Support the identification and impact classification for new vulnerabilities identified in the client' s environment.  • Assist client in identification and reduction of findings at a site and enterprise level.  • Assess the Cybersecurity risk of IT systems documenting them in formal risk assessments and supporting artifacts associated with the Assessment & Authorization (A&A) process. Organize, develop, and present briefings, written summaries, and written reports incorporating narrative, tabular and/or graphic elements.  • Researches policies, procedures, standards, and guidance, and recommends needed changes under specific conditions for the protection of information and information systems System Security Analyst Shady Grove Medical Center - Rockville, MD August 2017 to October 2018 • Review security controls and provide implementation responses as to if/how the systems are currently meeting the requirements.  • Performs security control assessment using NIST 800-53A guidance and as per continuous monitoring requirements.  • Perform security engineering activities, including collaborating with system engineers to identify security controls  • Develop NIST-compliant vulnerability assessments, technical documentation, and Plans of Action and Milestone (POA&M), and address system weaknesses  • Ensure customers are in compliance with security policies and procedures following NIST 800-53 and NIST 800-53A.  • Perform specific quality control for packages validation on the SSP, RA, RTM, PIA, SORN, E-authentication assessment and FIPS-199 categorization  • Review and upload deliverables in A&A repositories CSAM  • Maintain inventory of all Information Security system assigned  • Document and review System Security Plan (SSP), Security Assessment Report (SAR), Security Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&M), Authorization letter/memorandum (ATO).  • Provide continuous monitoring support for control systems in accordance to FISMA guidelines and conduct FISMA-based security risk assessments.  • Perform Security Categorization (FIPS 199), review and ensure Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA)  document after a positive PTA is created. Security Analyst Virtual IQ, Inc - Spencerville, MD January 2017 to August 2017 • Ensured operational and technical controls for securing either sensitive Security Systems or IT systems are in place and are followed according to federal guidelines (NIST 800-53).  • Ensured that appropriate steps are taken to implement information security requirements for IT systems throughout their life cycle, from the requirements definition phase through disposal.  • Reviewed, analyzed and updated security plans (SSP) using NIST SP 800-18 guidelines  • Reviewed POAM and enforced timely remediation of audit issues  • Used and applied knowledge of Security Assessment & Authorization (SA&A) policies, guidelines, and regulations in the assessment of IT systems and the documentation and preparation of related documents  • Documented and finalized Security Assessment Report (SAR)  • Created, reviewed and updated SSP, SAR, POA&M for system accreditation  • Conducted the IT Risk Assessment and documented the controls  • Ensured the Contingency Plan Test was done annually  • Developed and conducted risk assessment plans IT Coordinator Children National Medical Center - Washington, DC July 2016 to January 2017 • Provide security-centric services in support of a world-class information security program.  • Assist with consultation with the business community to identify business needs and determine appropriate security solutions.  • Provide support of all security programs and assist with inquiries from internal users of security programs.  • Triage reported program issues and facilitate resolution, engaging additional resources as necessary.  • Perform routine follow-up with users to ensure issues are resolved.  • Responds to security incidents individually or as part of an incident response team.  • Executes security projects as directed by Security Management and reports on the status of these as required.  • Assists with the vendor management to include annual risk assessments, onsite assessments and ongoing monitoring for all third-party providers.  • Coordinates or assists with IT and Compliance audits. i.e., client or Regulatory.  • Communicates and implements established physical, data and computer security policies and procedures.  • Assists in the establishment and documentation of new security policies and practices.  • Provide security-centric services in support of a world-class information security program. Help Desk Support Holy Cross Hospital - Silver Spring, MD March 2014 to July 2016 • Determine the best solution based on the issue and details provided by customers  • Walk the customer through the problem-solving process  • Direct unresolved issues to the next level of support personnel  • Provide accurate information on IT products or services  • Record events and problems and their resolution in logs  • Follow-up and update customer status and information  • Pass on any feedback or suggestions by customers to the appropriate internal team  • Identify and suggest possible improvements on procedure Education Master's in MS Information Technology University of Maryland Baltimore County - Baltimore, MD December 2018 BS in Health Care Administration Washington Adventist University May 2014 Skills SECURITY, MICROSOFT ACCESS, SQL, VISIO, PIVOT TABLES, SYSTEM SECURITY, QUALITY CONTROL, QUALITY CONTROL/ASSURANCE, OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT, RISK MANAGEMENT, CUSTOMER SERVICE MANAGEMENT, CUSTOMER SERVICE, EXCEL, MICROSOFT OUTLOOK, OUTLOOK, POWERPOINT, OPERATIONS, TIME MANAGEMENT, TRAINING