Application Security Analyst Application <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Application Security Analyst - Koch Business Solutions Atlanta, GA obtain a significant and challenging position where I can use my relationship building experience, leadership and communication skills. I want to grow in an organization where I can be innovative and help improve business processes. Looking forward to assisting a company in achieving its goals. Work Experience Application Security Analyst Koch Business Solutions August 2017 to Present • Leading the support effort supporting 10 different companies within the SAP HR/HCM Module doing SAP Security Production and Non Production, Tableau Security, and Varonis Data Advantage/ Data Privilege.  • Develop, create, and maintain the Roles/Authorizations in SAP.  • Lead SAP projects from a Security perspective. Work with customers to gather requirements, support implementations, and currently leading a Divestiture project in SAP.  • Performing general system monitoring of SAP by creating monthly reports, which are reviewed by leadership.  • Provisioning users, create and maintain roles, and break/fix production support in SAP Production and Non Production.  • Serve as a liaison between the Business needs and IT Security  • Abstract reports that are requested by the various businesses as needed.  • Oversee the design of SOD rule sets and ensure our risks are limited and mitigated.  • Experience working with Enterprise HR Technical Architecture.  • Completed a PHI/PII assessment of our SAP HR environment.  • Ongoing review of training documents to ensure that they are kept up to date.  • Manage security business controls and processes. Used GRC and switched to Saviynt.  • Training new team member from India on how to support in an SAP HR environment. Associate, Global IT Security Analyst Chep August 2016 to August 2017 • Create articles about Security Awareness to support the Wombat Phishing Simulation Program to educate company's employees about cyber security best practices  • Manage risks by creating mitigating controls using CPGRC in SMD, then transporting to CEN.  • Global support and troubleshooting of SAP Security by resolving authorization issues and SAP access requests.  • Run user workshops to collect information then design, develop and maintain SAP, BW, GW (Fiori) and SRM roles  • Analyze the current workflow process to develop documentation that helps the business communicate with my team effectively  • Conducts and aids in cyber security research with recommendations for action into IT related topics  • Train the Global Access Management Team on how to create and provision users in SAP  • Provide guidance and support for global gatekeepers to assist with user Segregation of Duties monitoring and mitigation  • Provide support for audit  • Provision users in Winshuttle  • Continuous learning of TCP/IP and Network Security. SAP Security Analyst Co-Op Koch Business Solutions February 2016 to August 2016 • Managed the production queue (Service Now) to handle all the day-to-day requests of customers.  • Assisted my team with administering users, profiles, and authorizations in an operational SAP environment.  • Designed, developed and maintained SAP security roles  • Identified continuous trends through system analysis and reporting, and identified strength and weaknesses to suggest areas of improvement.    • Presented power points that I've made to help directors visualize the data that I've monitored within our SAP production and non-production environments.    • Performed general system monitoring of SAP security related to user administration  • Provided support for Internal and external audit review AppleCare Representative Apple At-Home Advisor May 2014 to November 2014 • Worked in a corporate environment, which assisted me in knowing what is expected from leaders in this industry.  • Assisted customers with difficult problems they have with apple products using excellent soft skills, customer service, troubleshooting, and technical support skills.  • Kept up with the constant changes and upgrades of apple products by studying training materials periodically through the work week.  • Learned how to search a document for important information while I instruct a customer on how to fix the problem. Education Bachelor of Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems Georgia State University - Atlanta, GA June 2016