Information security analyst Information <span class="hl">security</span> <span class="hl">analyst</span> Concord, NC • Well-educated Cyber Security Professional looking to further her education and career in the Cyber/ Information Security space. Earned a Master of Science in Cyber Security & Digital Investigation.  • Results-oriented, high-energy, hands-on professional, with a successful record of accomplishments in the IT Security industries.  • In my previous role, as a Cyber Security Auditor and PCI/Information Systems Auditor conducts hands-on support for a wide range of security technologies including, but not limited to: SIEM, malware analysis and protection, content filtering, logical access controls, identity and access management, data loss prevention, content filtering technologies, application firewalls, and vulnerability scanners  • Hands-on experience and knowledge with ArcSight, FireEye Symantec DLP, Phising Portal, Splunk ES, Qualys, Active Directory, Hygena, and more.  • Major strengths include strong leadership, excellent communication skills, strong team player, attention to detail, dutiful respect for compliance in all regulated environments.  • Proven experience in the Information Assurance field of IT. Work Experience Information security analyst Duke Energy - Charlotte, NC April 2018 to Present Information Security Analys  • Create, Testing and implementing network disaster recovery  • Perform risk assessments and testing of data processing systems  • Help to drive security requirements through the organization  • Demonstrated effectiveness of security controls.  • Provides increased availability during Storm Mode, wide impacting service disruptions events (SDEs) and security response events.  • Develop and maintain standard operating procedures to reflect day -to-day security Cyber Security Auditor-PCI/Information Systems Auditor Compass Group - Charlotte, NC March 2017 to October 2018 • Conducts hands-on support for a wide range of security technologies including, but not limited to: SIEM, malware analysis and protection, content filtering, logical access controls, identity and access management, data loss prevention, content filtering technologies, application firewalls, and vulnerability scanners  • Performs project leadership tasks on security initiatives/projects  • Performs audits of internal application controls and infrastructure  • Performs audits of the implementation and infrastructure that supports the Point of Sale system(s).  • Interacts with internal PCI Team to ensure proper controls and segmentation are in place per PCI DSS standards.  • Completes internal SAQ reports as required and have in depth knowledge and the requirements to comply with PCI DSS Reports on Compliance (ROC), Approved Scanning Vendor (ASV) Scan Reports, and PCI AOC (Attestation of Compliance). IT Risk Analyst TIAA - Charlotte, NC October 2017 to April 2018 • Identified Vulnerabilities or weakness in systems  • Examine employee compliance with security controls and deficiencies    • Evaluate security policy, processes and procedures for completeness.  • Identify defensive steps to take, including necessary firewalls, security software and data encryption.  • Clearly document and define risks and potential impacts along with the statistical probability of such event and identify systems affected by the defined risk. Information Security Analyst TIAA - Charlotte, NC August 2016 to March 2017 • Identified and evaluated potential threats and vulnerabilities.  • Designed training manuals to increase security awareness throughout company  • Monitored live systems to discover real-time threats.    • Demonstrated effectiveness of security controls.  • Respond to network and host based security events  • Develop and maintain standard operating procedures to reflect day -to-day security Education Master of Science University of Maryland University College Bachelor of Arts in Sociology Norfolk State University Skills security, access, testing, Active Directory, HTML Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/kiara-bell-0759a367