Security Analyst <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Houston, TX A seasoned security professional with over 3 years of experience that encompasses various roles and responsibilities in the field of information security. A Masters in Network Communications and the opportunity to work in different industries has contributed to my understanding of network architectures and security requirements as they pertain to specific business models. I have an eye for detail, thoroughly enjoy working in challenging environments, quickly learning new technologies and keeping abreast with the latest developments in information technology.  I am seeking a Senior Security Analyst position where my potential will be effectively utilized to contribute to the company’s growth. Work Experience Security Analyst Waste Management - Houston, TX May 2011 to Present Manage network, storage and endpoint Data Loss Prevention (DLP) components - Successfully led a major upgrade of the DLP suite; created and tuned policies resulting in improved incident detection, false positive reduction and manageable event analysis. Developed a roadshow presentation, DLP policy and incident management procedures to encourage the business to leverage DLP capabilities.  Manage Encryption server/client infrastructure and operations - Enhanced operational health and stability of the encryption server and established user account management procedures. Developed troubleshooting, training and awareness materials to improve support processes and end user adoption of whole disk, email, file and folder encryption features.  Support multi-factor authentication platform operations - Developed simple and easy to follow documentation to enable a smooth transition from hard to soft tokens for all end users; assisted with soft token provisioning and troubleshooting.  Serve as an interim administrator for the enterprise Anti-Virus (AV) platform - Provided assistance to the desktop and server support teams to diagnose and resolve AV related issues.  Other responsibilities - Assist with monitoring security and intrusion prevention event logs for system and network anomalies and provide first level analysis. Provide security consulting services to the business; review and recommend the installation or replacement of security technologies; provide technical support to assess security policies, standards and guidelines; participate in security incident management process creation and internal and external audits as required. Associate Security Engineer Corsec - Fairfax, VA September 2010 to May 2011 Analyze various network/ security products and develop documentation to help vendors achieve the FIPS 140-2 certification - Performed software/hardware design analysis, security architecture review and design assessment of client products requiring FIPS 140-2 validation. With only a week of on-site training, picked up Corsec specific evaluation and documentation procedures, gained a thorough understanding of FIPS 140-2 requirements, worked with vendors and developed certification documents for three different products that passed Corsec’s stringent quality review process and are now FIPS certified. IT Analyst - Full time Intern Baker Hughes - Houston, TX April 2010 to August 2010 Disaster Recovery and Business Continuity Planning – Worked with the IT Security and business teams worldwide to identify business critical applications and formulate a detailed disaster recovery/ business continuity plan as per the ISO 27001:2005 standards to include recovery time objectives and procedures, risk assessment by geography, threat and regulatory compliance, and post-disaster recovery planning.   Application complexity and cost reduction - Worked with process teams across the organization to identify applications that currently support various processes in Baker Hughes and identified viable replacements to reduce complexity and cost.   Competitor Analysis - Analyzed the market for software applications used by competitors. Researched case studies provided by vendors and standard bodies such as Gartner, Forrester, etc. Information Security Analyst - Full time Intern United Airlines - Houston, TX January 2009 to December 2009 DLP requirement gathering - Assisted with the technical requirements gathering process to support DLP implementation.  Compare encryption platforms - Provided a comprehensive comparison of four different solutions evaluated based on ease of installation, use, features and availability of e-mail encryption on mobile devices. Modified an existing Perl script to automate the process of FTP encryption as per Continental’s requirements.  Whole Disk and Removable Storage Encryption - Assisted with the testing, installation, implementation and troubleshooting of whole disk and removable storage encryption platform.   Hardware Security Module (HSM) Comparison - Provided recommendation and a comprehensive comparison report for two HSM product offerings based on installation time and resources required, transmission security, access control features, key generation and protection, end user experience, operational complexity, license and maintenance cost. Education Masters in Network Communications University of Houston - Houston, TX 2007 to 2009 Bachelors in Electronics and Communications Osmania University - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh 2003 to 2007 Skills Data Loss Prevention, Encryption, Wireshark, NIST SP 800-xx, Nmap, Metasploit, FIPS 140-2, PCI-DSS, Incident Response, AV, Vulnerability Scanning Links https://www.linkedin.com/profile/view?id=18068189