Cyber Security Intern Cyber <span class="hl">Security</span> Intern Chattanooga, TN Computer Software Engineer, Information Technology Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Cyber Security Intern BCBST - Chattanooga, TN May 2018 to Present ·      Responsible for Research & Development for the following services; Breach and Attack Simulation (BAS), Threat Simulation, MITRE ATT&CK Framework, Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR) and Windows Event Forwarding, Log Collection and Analysis, Security Engineering Framework  ·      Implement, configure and maintain servers and components installed on Linux and Windows Platforms, for the following technologies;  Ansible, OS Query, Sysmon, Elastic Search, ELK, Kibana, Kolide, AttackIQ, Docker, Windows Event Forwarding (WEF), Unfetter, Red Canary, Winlogbeat.   ·      Gather Security Engineering requirements and provide Research & Development support of cyber security technologies.  ·      Present Cyber Security Research & Development findings to technical and business audiences to discuss security benefits, technology capabilities, use cases and security requirements.   ·      Adapted and quickly learned a new position and industry to further develop analytical and technical skills. IT End User Analyst (Desktop Support) TVA TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY - Chattanooga, TN August 2017 to January 2018 • Configures, installs, tests, and supports standard laptop, desktop, mobile and other hardware.  • Evaluates, tests, and install applications and communications software.  • Moves equipment between cubicles or offices, as needed.  • Troubleshoots and resolves user’s hardware and software issues and updates ticketing system. Escalates complex issues as needed to other TVA system personnel.  • Creates/updates documentation and instructions as needed.  • Trains users on TVA hardware, applications and communications software.  • Configures and deploys telework equipment.  • Manages surplus of equipment, including wiping hard drives, cataloging, etc.  • Maintains inventory of TVA IT Assets and conducts regular inventory verification.  • Assist with other IT projects as needed.  • Recommends process improvements for problem prevention.  • Maintains a working knowledge of security requirements for TVA systems, ensures those requirements are incorporated in configurations and installations, helps with/educates users on application of these requirements as needed and reports any security concerns to their supervisor or TVA management.  • Coordinates with TVA personnel as needed to troubleshoot issues or help users gain access to TVA systems IT Electronics Rework Flashing Technician Greytree Partners - Chattanooga, TN April 2017 to August 2017 • Responsible for testing, diagnose and reworking auto computers   • Monitor equipment using established procedures  • Documented testing and repairs of flashing for inventory checklist to spreadsheet.   • Responsible for following all repair facility procedures, safety policies and quality of standards.  • Maintained a clean, safe and unobstructed workspace.   • Verification of vehicle hardware upgrade prior to installation and at vehicle specification at functional   testing IT Field Technician Lumenos Technologies Inc - Chattanooga, TN January 2017 to August 2017 • Responsible for inventory tracking in the field  • Annotating assets into internal system  • Responsible for requisitioning assets for projects  • Staging of equipment prior to install  • Systems maintenance and troubleshooting  • Installation of copper and fiber  • Working with VoIP, component repair, broadband technologies, and analog/digital telephony Student IT Technician Chattanooga State College - Chattanooga, TN October 2013 to June 2014 • Provided technical support to college employees on the systems and applications provided by the  college  • Trained on all Asset Management procedures  • Helped with intake of equipment, asset tracking, and retirement of assets  • Reviewed inventory to ensure accurate numbers  • Instructed users on safe and efficient use of systems  • Resolved technical issues with the internal systems  • Troubleshooting issues with internet connectivity for systems  • Assisted senior staff in analysis of technical issues  • Assisted in the deployment of machines across the college. Education M.S in Information Technology Management Colorado State University-Global Campus - Greenwood Village, CO April 2017 to December 2018 B.S in Information Technology Colorado State University-Global Campus - Colorado 2015 to 2017 A.S in General studies Chattanooga State Community College - Chattanooga, TN 2012 to 2015 Skills Customer Support (1 year), Network Security, Troubleshooting (2 years), Installation (2 years), Java (1 year), Powerpoint (4 years), Asset Management (2 years), Tech Support, Desktop Support, Service Desk, Help Desk, Helpdesk Support Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/arrelstclair Awards INFORMATION SYSTEMS MANAGEMENT & ARCHITECTURE 2016-06 NETWORK & INFORMATION SECURITY ANALYSIS 2016-07