SOC Analyst SOC <span class="hl">Analyst</span> SOC Analyst - MKACyber Silver Spring, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SOC Analyst MKACyber - Fairfax, VA April 2017 to Present • Performed network and host-based security log analysis to assist with computer incident investigations.  • Developed SIEM dashboards using security analytics to assist in security incident event management.  • Accumulate and vetted indicators of compromise for the threat intelligence program.  • Performed network threat hunting activities as well as analyzed and evaluated network and system anomalies.  • Advised organization stakeholders on security incidents and resolution. Information Security Analyst National Institute of Health, Fusion PPT - Bethesda, MD October 2016 to April 2017 Performed security control assessments of organization owned information systems for NIST compliance.  • Conducted internal interviews with organization stakeholders in order to assess security measures.  • Reviewed existing organization policies and standards in order to identify organizational weaknesses.  • Provided remediation guidance to organization stakeholders for discovered compliance issues.  • Assisted in the development of System Security Plans and Security Awareness Reports. SOC Analyst Health Resource Service Administration (HRSA), CyberData Technologies - Rockville, MD March 2015 to October 2016 • Assisted in the deployment of HRSA's Webinspect installation  • Performed application and server scans on HRSA applications, validated results, and provided further guidance.  • Coordinate with field support teams to ensure that compromise hosts are properly remediate.  • Advise organization's stakeholders on vulnerabilities and how to address them.  • Reviewed indicators of compromise and implemented network blocks to strengthen HRSA security posture.  • Created and updated existing standard operating procedures for Redseal, IBM AppScan, HP WebInspect. Guest Researcher, IT Intern NIST National Cyber Security Center of Excellence - Gaithersburg, MD May 2014 to May 2015 • Help develop a risk analysis methodology.  • Setup virtual (VMs) environment for NCCoE to test RSA Archer.  • Responsible for documenting NCCoE RSA Archer testing.  • Contributor of technical writing and ideology towards the Wireless Medical Infusion Pump Use Case.  • Performed administrative duties such as record meeting notes as well as provide project updates. Education Bachelor's Degree in Cyber Security Information Assurance in Cyber Security Information Assurance University of Maryland University College - College Park, MD December 2014 Skills SECURITY (Less than 1 year), NEXPOSE, SPLUNK, CYBER SECURITY, INFORMATION ASSURANCE Additional Information Professional Skill Set  • Understanding of computer hardware and software concepts.  • Understanding of cyber security information assurance, management information systems, technical communication.  • Proficient with the use of software such as IBM Appscan, HP WebInspect, Rapid7 Nexpose, Tenable Security Center,  and Splunk