IT Specialist / Security Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> Specialist / <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Infrastructure Analyst Paterson, NJ To acquire a career position in the Information Technology field that permits the utilization of my experience and presents me with opportunity of acquisition of skills & personal and career development Work Experience IT Specialist / Security Analyst DIVERSANT, LLC June 2016 to Present • Assisted in the establishment and update of company’s information security program policies   • Implemented security awareness training program for the company with quarterly email reminders and updates  • Managed company’s Alienvault USM security information & event manager (SIEM)  • Monitored & investigated network security incidents and escalated the incidents as needed  • Performed network & system security vulnerability scans using Alienvault USM features and presented the results to systems engineering team for remediation  • Assisted in the change control management process  • Participated in the semi-annual security review of the firewall rules and router/switch configurations  • Responsible for providing technical support to over 800+ end-users via phone, email, and onsite technical issues.  • Supported Network Engineering team as a front line defense for troubleshooting LAN/WAN/VPN issues  • Monitored servers, routers, and other IT infrastructure, Applications & Services  • Imaged laptop for existing and new hires.  • Managed network account using Active directory.  • Created Exchange account for New hire/existing user using Exchange 2010.  • Managed Skype for business accounts. Infrastructure Analyst Soham Consulting March 2013 to January 2016 • Maintained responsibility for providing technical support to over 6000+ end-users globally via phone, email, and onsite issues.  • Utilized communication skills with support representatives to resolve software issues in an utmost professional manner.  • Managed windows users, groups and resources access management via Active Directory  • Managed Unix system accounts  • Granted access and permission privileges to network file and server resources  • Managed Active Directory Administration task (promotion and decommissioning of domain controllers, managed AD Sites & Domain trust)  • Assisted in the management of the Virtual VMWare environment (Created and decommissioned virtual servers & machines, increased server specifications when needed, monitored overall health).  • Performed Level 1 & 2 Exchange server management of users, database move request, mail distribution group membership.  • Assisted in the security project rollouts of encryption (BitLocker) and mobile device management (AirWatch)  • Assisted System Engineering team on level 1 server administration  • Supported troubleshooting Outlook/Email issues including connection issues, and message tracking  • Supported Network Engineering team as a front line defense for troubleshooting LAN/WAN/VPN issues  • Installed printers and other peripherals for end users  • Performed basic project management task and coordination of meetings for project engineering team.  • Troubleshoot Cisco IP Communicator VOIP system  • Managed active directory computer and resource management and cleanup  • Supported mobile users on iPhone, iPad, Android, & Blackberry  • Monitored servers, routers, and other IT infrastructure, Applications & Services (DNS, DHCP, Exchange, Active Directory, File Servers) Storage, CPU, RAM, general functionality performances via SCOM alerts and Server Monitor Dashboard  • Escalated server level 3 issues to the system engineering team when level 1 or 2 were not able to resolve the issue.  • Follow up on outstanding calls and issues with users to ensure utmost resolutions  • Support clients on a daily basis with virus issues, software problems, passwords reset for various application, hardware problems, printer issues.  • Create reports for business opening/closing for IT Infrastructure & Applications for upper management. Helpdesk Analyst (Consultant) Stryker - Allendale, NJ April 2011 to September 2012 • Responsible for providing technical support to over 4000+ end-users via phone, email, and onsite technical issues.  • Answered and recorded 35-45 calls on a daily basis via Service Now and Altiris ticketing systems.  • Troubleshoot Personal Computer software and hardware issues.  • Provided daily technical support for e-mail, network connectivity, peripheral and equipment.  • Reset/create password, network IDs and priorities via Active Directory.  • Acted as primary contact person for remote users and sales managers.  • Acted as a backup person for wireless handheld device support.  • Support wireless networking issues.  • Supported video conferencing system.  • Maintained and Ghost imaged standard personal computer configurations.  • Configured TCP/IP configuration of printers.  • Maintained IT printers by cleaning jams, and changing toner cartridges.  • Troubleshoot VPN (RSA). Help Desk Support (Consultant) Keepers Inc - Washington, DC October 2010 to October 2010 • Neighbor Works - Serves as a help desk support analyst for the mortgage application system and technical support for over 8,000 clients via phone, email or onsite.  • Used Helpstar as ticketing system for logging and tracking all helpdesk calls.  • Check email periodically and created all the necessary tickets base on customer request.  • With using calendar appointments, out-of-office message, Outlook, enabled items, email groups with rights, created PST folders, and email accounts.  • Updated client information in the Helpstar in monthly basis.  • Supported troubleshooting, corrections and/or installation of issues involving software, hardware and network issues (including VPN)  • Maintained a professional attitude and provide excellent customer service at all times, to include maintaining a good work ethic and assisting other analysts when needed.  • Offered Blackberry assistance to users with battery, password reset, software upgrade, and email/text issues  • Using Active Directory setup user accounts, reset passwords, issue Admin rights and evaluate user privileges. Education Computer Science Passaic County Community College - Paterson, NJ Skills SolarWinds Network Monitor (5 years), Active Directory 2003/2008/2012, Alienvault USM SIEM, DNS, DHCP, AirWatch, Microsoft Office 2007/ 2010/2013, VMWare vSphere, PeopleSoft, Oracle, Sharepoint, Exchange 2010/2013, Windows Server 2003/2008 R2/2012 R2, Cisco VPN, Cisco VOIP Communicator, MicroSoft Lync 2010 / Skype Business, BES BlackBerry Enterprise Services, CRM, Citrix, SCOM, UNIX, Remote Desktop Service / Terminal Services, ADP, Crestron, Avaya, VMWare Fusion Additional Information Technologies    SolarWinds Network Monitor  Active Directory 2003/2008/2012  Alienvault USM SIEM  OpenVas Vulnerability Scanner  OSSEC Hids  NMAP Port Scanner  Nessus Security Scanner  DNS  DHCP  AirWatch  Microsoft Office 2007/ 2010/2013  VMWare vSphere  PeopleSoft  Oracle  Maximo  SharePoint  Exchange 2010/2013  Windows Server 2003/2008 R2/2012 R2  Forfront Endpoint protection  Cisco VPN  Cisco VOIP Communicator  Remote Desktop Service / Terminal Services  ADP  Crestron  MicroSoft Lync 2010 / Skype Business  BES BlackBerry Enterprise Services  CRM  Websense  Citrix  SCOM  BMC Servicesdesk  BMC FootPrint  Altiris  Helpstar  TeamViewer / Log mein  UNIX