Senior Associate Senior Associate Senior Associate - Grant Thornton LLP Vienna, VA Work Experience Senior Associate Grant Thornton LLP August 2014 to Present Provide PMO oversight to a team of 3 senior consultants performing Operations & Maintenance activities for a large federal law enforcement agency's enterprise process automation system and its five (5) financial reporting workflow applications.  * Oversee creation of an interagency SharePoint dashboard for application and system status, metrics, and user guides.  * Develop status update briefings used by the Program Lead for presentation to agency executives.  * Liaise with business owners, developers, testers, and functional analysts to prioritize and resolve user issues across three (3) major ticketing systems including IBM Rational and two (2) custom-built systems. Program Analyst & IT Security Analyst Grant Thornton LLP September 2012 to July 2014 Performed quality management activities for a large federal executive department to consolidate five (5) financial management systems into a single unified Momentum-based system.  * Participated in work streams across all areas of the system development life cycle (SDLC) and reconciled progress with high level agency executives.  * Led the implementation of an Access database to track, categorize, and manage over 400 system vulnerabilities. This effort involved in-depth research to reconcile and assess risk severity levels for individual vulnerabilities identified over the span of two (2) years. Efforts resulted in increased assignment of priority items, enabling governance and in turn, reduced high and medium impact vulnerability remediation time by 50%.  * Led a three (3) month project to support the yearly IT Security Audit by conducting detailed research on over 400 vulnerability events using Tenable Network Security, AppDetective, and Microsoft Access.  * Developed and presented high-level briefings to senior executives after conducting in-depth security vulnerability analyses.  * Developed dashboard to report monthly system performance metrics and presented regularly to key program stakeholders including the CIO, Comptroller, Finance Director, and CISO. The dashboard became the department standard for all future system performance reports.  * Led a multi-functional team responsible for managing communications of major project milestones to over 150 senior government leads across multiple agencies. Communications kept stakeholders informed of project status, risks, issues, and milestones.  * Oversaw the distribution, quality assurance reviews, tracking, and knowledge management of over 64 technical deliverables.  Grant Thornton Business Development Initiatives  * Developed a model to estimate the firm's revenue by comparing actual against forecasted data. Analyses led to a comprehensive understanding of how the firm can surpass its financial goals by meeting their pipeline revenue targets. Findings were presented to the firm's Managing Partners on a monthly basis.  * Led and managed junior staff in conducting government contract solicitation pipeline research and drafting responses to Request for Proposals (RFPs) under short deadlines.  * Led the development of LinkedIn marketing materials such as authoring a white paper on applying Lean Six Sigma principals to the system test and evaluation process.  * Actively participated on the Virginia Tech campus recruiting team. The team collectively interviewed over 200 applicants resulting in over 35 college hires and interns. Program Director & Data Research Analyst iMapData Inc February 2011 to September 2012 Held various roles to support the company's vision of using geospatial data to visualize and present data driven solutions in targeted web-based products.  * Directed and managed the full life cycle of a robust year-round college internship program. The success of the program led to over ten (10) new company hires.  * Increased applicant pool by 700% using innovative and strategic advertising methods to maximize program interest.  * Spearheaded the redesign and restructuring of firm's online marketing campaign.  * Led a team of eight (8) interns to create geospatial data layers used in client demonstrations. Data layers incorporated social-media outlets for real-time tracking of the 2011 Libyan crisis and 2012 Summer Olympics.  * Created and refined geospatial and demographic databases collectively containing over 100 million unique entries in Microsoft SQL Server.  * Assisted in the design and implementation of logical and physical data models in order to normalize databases.  Awards & Education PhD in Oncology University of Texas Health Science Center September 2009 to January 2011 Bachelor of Science in Biochemistry Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University August 2005 to May 2009 Additional Information Skills: Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Access, Nessus, Serena TeamTrack, IBM Rational, Microsoft SQL Server, Microsoft Visio, Microsoft SharePoint, Microsoft Project, and Adobe Photoshop  Publication  Ma, Li, Dr. Min Gyu Lee, et al. "Trans-tail regulation of MLL4-catalyzed H3K4 methylation by H4R3 symmetric dimethylation is mediated by a tandem PHD of MLL4."Genes & Development, 2012.