Data Analyst, Role Mining and DevOps Data <span class="hl">Analyst</span>, Role Mining and DevOps Data Analyst, Role Mining and DevOps - Undisclosed Highlands Ranch, CO Work Experience Data Analyst, Role Mining and DevOps Undisclosed - Denver, CO 2019 to Present Worked with Active Directory to clean up unnecessary elevated access in effort to convert to Role Based access, concurrently implementing a Privileged Access Management Tool (Safeguard).  • Analyzed current user membership groups in effort to adhere to the principle of Least Privilege. Created new admin accounts and security groups for RBAC/PAM tool integration.  • PowerShell query to find users across 10+ domains, including trusted and non-trusted domains.  • Worked closely with Safeguard vendor to automate PAM tool using PowerShell and Rest API to set up RDP connections, send SMS for approvals, password management.  • Set delegated permissions for test OUs in effort to create a "Golden OU" to copy across the forest.  • Became a leader and took initiative to send frequent status emails and press for follow-up on backlog items when the team seemed to be losing steam. IT Business Systems Analyst/Data Analyst CNO Financial - Carmel, IN 2018 to 2019 Performed controls testing and interviewed Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) to present a full picture of the current state of security controls and identify potential risk for all Information Systems handling personally identifiable information (PII), protected health information (PHI), or regulated by FISMA guidelines in effort to evaluate minimum requirements for cybersecurity before migrating into an F5 cloud network environment for multi-factor authentication:  • Performed security controls testing on web applications in scope. This included recording types of secure HTTP headers, session management details, and identifying a handful of applications using SiteMinder SSO, as they would be last to migrate to the F5 environment.  • Gather and document details about digital security certificates, specifically hashing and asymmetric key metadata.  • Created custom risk meter dashboards in Kenna Security to search by hostname or IP address to gather information regarding vulnerability of assets and documented vulnerabilities approaching or beyond service level agreements (SLA).  • Performed searches in Splunk for security logs, noting the applications not sending information to the tool as an item to be remediated by the SIEM.  • Delivered on-time results of analysis along with suggestions for remediations to the team to be approved by the legal team.  • Researched locations and frequencies of user list security files for role-based access project for the IAM team.  • Combined access control lists and HR files to mine for data and determine two potential starting points for the role mining team based on two separate ideologies and proposals.  • Took initiative to document mappings and relationships discovered between servers and applications in effort to help improve asset mapping. Data Analyst and Security Data Analyst Compliance and Access Management - Carmel, IN 2015 to 2018 Joined as a Data Analyst with an initial goal to interview SMEs to analyze and clean up Active Directory descriptions to a more user-friendly format. This work included researching and notating any access or role that would fall into the NERC CIP and SOC2 compliance scopes. I soon transitioned into a second project to analyze user, service account, and user list data to ensure that additions, revocations, and terminations took place within critical time frames as dictated by NERC, FERC, and SOC1 for audit preparations purposes. Education Associate of Science in Computer Information Systems University of Indianapolis - Indianapolis, IN January 2019 Skills Devops, Fisma, Hipaa, Mapping, Rsa, Powerpoint, Excel Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/lindayockeyong