Junior Security Analyst Junior <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Junior Security Analyst - Ace of Cloud Sterling, VA Work Experience Junior Security Analyst Ace of Cloud March 2019 to Present Align security posture of government, commercial, and healthcare organizations in accordance with their respective standards (i.e. FISMA/NIST, FedRAMP, ISO, and HIPAA)  ? Develop security package documentation including but not limited to Policies, Procedures, Security Plan, Contingency, Configuration/Change Management and Incident Response Plans, and ISMS documentation  ? Conducted GAP assessments to determine the effectiveness of organizational security controls  ? Assisted in the analysis of organizational Security Architecture and design documentation  ? Develop Security Assessment Reports (SAR) documenting security deficiencies within an organization  ? Develop Plan of Action and Milestone (POAM) documentation identifying mitigation strategies and timelines  ? Develop high level summary presentations for clients identifying high level overview of assessment methodology and results  ? Analyze scan results to identify false positives and validate adequate vulnerabilities threats. Junior Security Analyst ViaNova Health October 2017 to February 2019 Reviewed and updated security policies and procedures  ? Participated in Contingency Plan and Incident Response Tests and developed After Action Reports to determine plan effectiveness  ? Updated Security Development LifeCycle documentation  ? Assisted in the development of network and architecture diagram  ? Reviewed vulnerability scan results to determine patch management timeline IT Support Technician United States Patent and Trademark Office January 2017 to September 2017 Supporting all computers related issues as well as software and hardware related problems for approximately 20,000 users  ? Followed and communicated security policies, standards, guidelines, and procedures with users  ? Complied with USPTO password security policy as per certification and accreditation regulations  ? Followed current security and compliance requirement per users request  ? Pushed software to users using SCCM and CIFS  ? Troubleshoot and solved LAN and WAN connectivity issues  ? Supporting remote connectivity issues and dial up issues via Modem and VPN    Technical Skills:  ? Provide resolution to network, modems, printers, hard drives, memory cards, USB products, FireWire, and wireless issues.  ? MS Office Suite (MS Word, Excel, Access and Outlook.)  ? Extensive experience with Active Directory  ? Hardware/Software Troubleshooting  ? Excellent Customer Service Skills  ? Excellent written and oral communication skills in Technical and training fields  ? Analyzation of security scanning tool outputs  ? Proficiency in NIST 800 series (800-37, 800-53/(A), 800-30)  ? Proficiency in ISO 27001/2 Education B.S. in Geospatial Information Studies in Geospatial Information Studies University of Maryland - College Park, MD August 2019 Skills Iso, Iso 27001, Nist, Active directory, Ms office, Security