IT Security Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Irving, TX Mid-Level QA Software Test Engineer seeking a new and exciting project to join as a QA Tester while gaining meaningful experience for my career. Having excellent analytical and problem solving skills with the ability to think quickly and offer alternatives would be my strengths. Will add value to any Automation QA test team or Manual QA test team. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Security Analyst Dallas, TX October 2017 to Present Performs vulnerability scanning with Qualys, manages and priorities vulnerability remediation efforts, uses Allgress for broad decision making and IT & security reporting, is part of CIRT (cyber security incident response team), procures security tools from vendors, assesses various projects and validates that they adhere to the company security policies and guidelines, investigates security breaches and recommends actions, facilitates SSO integration, gray box pen tests internal systems, servers, domain controllers with Metasploit, participates in go/ no go meetings, created application security guidelines Software Integration & QA Test Automation Engineer Dallas, TX July 2016 to October 2017 • Creates automated test scripts by using Java + Selenium and TestNG following test plans from JIRA. Programs in Eclipse  • Creates automated test cases of various complexity involving locating of elements by id, class name, xpath, link text, DOM, CSS selectors. Builds the automated test cases with Maven and Jenkins.  • Automates test actions on textboxes, drop down menus, radio buttons, checkboxes, tables and labels  • Creates database integration tests including tests by using SQL queries validating that the UI displays correct test data from the database and that UI input test data is saved correctly. Tested the Omnitracs Navigation App, including testing it's UI, web apis, and database integration. Configures testing linux environment for the test lab.  • Extensive work experience on QA Functionality Testing, GUI Testing, Regression Testing, Integration Testing, System Testing and End to End testing. Excellent knowledge of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Software Test Life Cycle (STLC)  • Uses Eggplant to test automate windows applications on the IVG and MCP200 Omnitracs platforms.  • Prepared Test Plans, Test cases Test Scenarios and Test Data for all requirements  • Planned test schedules in accordance with project scope and delivery dates.  • Tests web services functionality with SoapUI, Postman, LoadUI  • Creates test scripts with Selenium for Android and Appium to test Android app UI  • Writes test plans using the engineering specs, knowledge of the product and judgement  • Executes test cases and records test results and defects in JIRA.  • Communicates test progress, test results, and other relevant test information with manager and team  • Participates and contributes in scheduled sprint review, retrospective, and test planning meetings  • Provides estimates for testing tasks. Participates in demos and retrospectives  • Documents functionality of systems.Works closely with dev teams and manual QA test teams  • Tests applications on multiple browsers (Chrome, IE, Firefox)  • Performs manual and automation testing for new features, feature modifications, and defect fix retesting  • Provided mentorship to other QA test team members. Reviewed Test Cases prepared by other QA team members Cyber Security Analyst Dallas, TX March 2016 to July 2016 Worked in a SOC for a managed security provider. Monitored the security event feed for more than 20 firms. Used judgement and know-how to escalate security events when needed. Monitored, analysed and reported real time security events using LogRhythm consoles, McAfee NSM, LogLogic and Tipping Point portals. Reviewed and submitted daily security reports to clients Cyber Security Engineer CSC - Bossier City, LA September 2014 to September 2015 Created user accounts and group policy objects in Active Directory. Observed work ticket queues and keep them down to an acceptable level. Implemented, enforced and communicated security policies and/or plans for data, software applications, hardware and telecommunications. Audited computer systems to ensure that they are operating securely and that data is protected from both internal and external attack. Monitored, evaluated, and maintained security systems according to industry best practices to safeguard internal information systems and databases. Assisted with the review and definition of security requirements and reviews systems to determine if they are designed to comply with established standards. Troubleshoot user access issues. Performed vulnerability scans on more than 5000 computers with Nessus. Analyzed vulnerabilities, prepares reports, suggests remediation actions. Managed group and user permissions in AD. Projects - NYHX, NCMMIS, EMEDNY (all government healthcare contracts) Network Engineer, CenturyLink Multi-Layer switches - Monroe, LA May 2013 to September 2013 Configured and provisioned of Calix, Adtran, AFC devices.Migrated sites from ATM to Gigabit Ethernet in two ways - updating the transport circuits from T1s, DS3s, OC3/12/48s to Gigabit Ethernet fiber, and by upgrading devices (DSLAMs, Layer 2 switches, and Multi-Layer switches) to be Gigabit Ethernet-capable. Flattened the infrastructure. Provisioned VLANs.Coordinated speed tests.Created Methods of Procedure for network migrations to be used by the night team. Coordinated loop back tests for DSLAM. Wrote service-affecting configurations for the Night Implementation Engineers to execute in order to upgrade transport circuits, move a devices uplink, and/or to move customer traffic Education Master of Science in Computer Science Louisiana Tech University - Ruston, LA Graduate Certificate of Information Assurance in Computer Science Lindenwood University - Saint Charles, MO Skills Android (1 year), database (1 year), Eclipse (1 year), Eggplant (1 year), Java (1 year) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/yavor-todorov-83ab066b/ Additional Information SKILLS  • Programming: C++, Java, HTML, Python, Javascript, PHP  • Automation: Selenium, Eggplant, Maven, Jenkins, Appium, UIautomatorviewer, TestNG, Jenkins  • QA Testing: Black Box, White Box, Stress, Load, Performance  • Bug Tracking Systems: JIRA  • Version Control Systems: Perforce, Git  • Database: MySQL, Microsoft SQL Server, PostgreSQL  • IDE: Netbeans, Eclipse, Android Studio, IntelliJ  • Knowledge of SDLC, STLC, Activity/Fragment Lifecycle  • Experience working in Agile SCRUM / DevOps environments  • Web Services: SoapUI, Postman, Advanced REST Client, LoadUI  • System Administration: Active Directory (Hyena)  • Penetration Testing: Aircrack-ng, Nmap, Wireshark, Metasploit  • Vulnerability Testing: Nessus, Qualys, Fiddler