Network Engineer Network Engineer Technical Support Spokane Valley, WA I enjoy providing a thorough IT support experience that is both friendly and efficient. Building a professional rapport with others is something I excel at whether it is with clients, hospital staff, coworkers, and other support staff. I have four years of continuous experience in Information Technology support and eight years’ experience in customer service industry including on-site tech support and retail tech support. I work very well in high pressure situations and have been awarded a Rookie of the Year award in 2018. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Engineer Maxis360 - Lynn Haven, FL October 2016 to Present Answers calls in a call center type group  o Answered a “disproportionate” number of calls  • Reviewing and completing support tickets from clients  • Resolves issues in a timely manner  • Creating, editing, and removing users in Active Directory  • Creating, editing, and removing mailboxes in Exchange  • Troubleshooting File and Shared Folders permissions and access  • Troubleshooting Office software  o (2007/2010/2013/2016/365)  • Troubleshooting Microsoft Windows and Server OS  o (XP/7/8/8.1/10 and 2008/2012/2012 R2/2016)  • Rookie of the Year Award for 2018 TECH ANALYST INTERN IT&S at Gulf Coast Regional Medical Center - Panama City, FL October 2015 to May 2016 • Ensured Confidentiality, Integrity, and Availability of patient information on hospital systems though secured connections and user awareness training.  • Communicated directly with clients in order to discover technical needs.  • Utilized DameWare remote desktop software to troubleshoot and repair software troubles remotely.  • Identified compatibility issues between old hospital software and new innovative software being implemented.  • Operated SCCM Console to push software out to client devices.  • Configured folder NTFS permissions for users on the network. CYBER SECURITY LAB ASSISTANT Gulf Coast State College - Panama City, FL August 2013 to October 2015 • Presented training at three cybersecurity conferences including ITENwired in Pensacola demonstrating several penetration presentations utilizing Kali Linux.  • Hosted International Cybersecurity Workshop #5 and #6 in partnership with 1st Air Force, U.S. Northern Command, and Booz-Allen-Hamilton.  • Managed a Server 2008 machine used for college classes.  • Familiarized myself with multiple virtualization tools and processes.  • Demonstrated penetration testing using tools such as:  • Nessus - to identify system vulnerabilities and analyze reports.  • Metasploit- running payloads against machines to test the security configurations.  • Wireshark - to analyze the network for specific packets and protocols  • Social Engineer Toolkit - to test user awareness of phishing attacks.  • Nmap - to map out networks for devices and identify operating systems being used. IT CONSULTANT K2 Technical, LLC - Panama City, FL July 2015 to July 2015 Implemented and consulted CEO on cloud and physical based data backup technologies that utilized both NAS units complemented by Windows Backup utility and third party cloud backup services. IT CONSULTANT (Consultation Agent) Geek Squad - Panama City, FL September 2014 to May 2015 • Inspected and implemented troubleshooting and repair techniques to various hardware and software issues.  • Managed check-in and check-out experiences for clients and suggested complete solutions for client's technical problems.  • Troubleshooting for Windows XP/Vista/7/8/10 and Mac OS's.  • Virus removals and data transfers.  • Customer support. Education AS in Network Systems Technology Western Governors University - Murray, UT December 2017 ASSOCIATES OF SCIENCE Gulf Coast State College - Panama City, FL August 2013 to December 2015 Skills Port Security and Protocols (2 years), Virtualization (3 years), Penetration Testing (3 years), Networking (3 years), Linux (2 years), Active Directory (3 years), Remedy (Less than 1 year), Hardware (4 years), Customer Service (7 years), Risk Management (RMF) (Less than 1 year) Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ July 2016 to July 2019 CompTIA Network+ July 2016 to July 2019 CompTIA Security+ June 2015 to June 2018 Additional Information SKILLS  KNOWLEDGE OF:  • NIST 800 series  • Risk Management Framework  • Port Securities and Protocols  • OS Virtualization  • Penetration Testing  • Cisco Networking Systems  • Linux Operating Systems  • Windows Server and Home Operating Systems  • Remedy Ticketing System  • Hardware and Software  • Customer Service  • Cable Management    PERSONAL SKILLS:  • Documenting  • Communicating  • Penetration Testing  • Troubleshooting  • Presenting  • Customer Service  • Rudimentary Japanese