Regional Color IT Coordinator Regional Color <span class="hl">IT</span> Coordinator Regional IT Coordinator Sherman Oaks, CA I am originally from Lithuania. I speak fluent Lithuanian and English. I have a high interest in advancement, as well as a dedication to my work and employer that, I believe, make me a prime candidate for your business. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Regional Color IT Coordinator PPG Industries - Los Angeles, CA July 2018 to Present — Main responsibilities:    • Handling software and hardware integration for body shops according to specific shop needs.  • Coordinating new software and hardware training for staff. From preppers to owners of body shops.  • Keeping up to date on Paintmanager software and hardware updates/changes.  • Suggesting improvements and how they may be implemented in Paintmanager software/hardware.  • Learning about day to day operations of body shops and their needs to provide most important features and training to staff and management.  • Consistently working with customers and other PPG staff to ensure services provided are top notch and customer feedback is heard.  • Management of time and resources to ensure my Region is supported.  • Building and maintaining strong relationships with PPG staff and customers (from body shops to distributors).  • Booking travel and keeping on top of corporate expenses.  • Creating documentation to help people out in the field have a quick solution to known issues/configurations.  • Supporting the region of California with the launch of new paint software.  • Maintaining thorough knowledge of Windows 7/8.1/10 OS to ensure smooth operation of Paintmanager software/hardware.  • Maintaining knowledge of networking basics to both setup and troubleshoot connections between host computers and client computers for Paintmanager Software.  • Learning about PPG paint products to provide the best support for customers in the field.   • Scheduling both body shop conversions and support visits throughout the California region.  • Constantly working towards providing the most value for both my company and myself. IT Help Desk Analyst Landmark Theatres - Los Angeles, CA August 2017 to May 2018 Responsibilities:     - Ensuring the level of customer service is top notch at all times.   - Taking on additional responsibilities as necessary.  - Ensuring the smooth operation of all systems for theatre and office staff.   - Learning solutions for issues whenever they present themselves.     Software and systems used/worked on:   Active directory, Account lockout tool, VNC viewer/server, RDC/RDP, Reflect Viewer/ publisher, Microsoft office 2010/2013, Chrome/firefox/IE/Edge, IP scanner, Vista Point of Sales System, Exchange management console, Sophos Email Filtering and anti virus, Mimecast Email Monitoring, Windows 7/8/10, IOS/MAC basic troubleshooting, Fedex shipping, Checkpoint VPN, Share drives/network drives, Domain access, Permissions, CMS Peach, Solarwinds, Mitel VoIP phones, Dell Kace/Quest KACE, Basic SQL Queries, Windows tools: Regedit, Eventvwr, CMD, Device manager, Basic network troubleshooting, Basic server troubleshooting, Seneca computers, Dell computers, Lenovo computers, ELO touchscreens/Dell touchscreens, Switches and Routers, Imagining using Symantec Ghost, Epson and custom printers, Teamviewer, Local and network printers, Filezilla, Filemaker Pro, Skype. Help Desk Support Micro Specialists 2000 L.L.C. - Los Angeles, CA July 2014 to April 2017 -Maintaining company computers.  -Ensuring smooth running of all systems hardware/software.  -Keeping up service ticket records.  -Advancing knowledge of windows and other software to resolve issues quicker and more efficiently.  -Main software used: LogMeIn Rescue, Zendesk, Microsoft Outlook, Active Directory, Windows 7/10, Microsoft Server 2008.  -Remote computer support. Remote troubleshooting. Basic server troubleshooting.  -Rolling out new applications and updates ( Windows 10 most recently )    At MS2000 I worked as a help desk support tech for almost 3 years. I loved my job and my superiors would say that I was absolutely giving it 110%. I am a very fast learner and I absolutely love technology and working with people. Security Officer Kadima Security Services - Los Angeles, CA October 2015 to May 2016 Responsibilities included:  - Writing DARs  - Ensuring safety of hospital personnel and patients.   - Investigating reports made by staff.   - Being courteous and punctual.   - Deescalating conflicts and stressful situations.   - Working as part of a diverse team.   - Patrolling building and surrounding areas.     I worked full time at kadima security services between Oct 2015 and April 2016. I was a night shift officer while also working full time day shift at Micro Specialists 2000. Education HIGH SCHOOL DIPLOMA DUNSHAUGHLIN COMMUNITY COLLEGE Skills Computer Repair (5 years), Remote computer support (5 years), Active Directory (5 years), MS Office (5 years), Internet Research (5 years), Help desk support (4 years), Fluent in Lithuanian (10+ years) Additional Information From the moment I graduated high school I have been working with computers and software both on a professional and personal level. I love technology and advancing my knowledge of it.