IT Technical Support Specialist I <span class="hl">IT</span> Technical Support Specialist I IT Technical Support Specialist I - Cumberland County Harrisburg, PA IT Technical Support Specialist with 5 years general IT experience looking for a career opportunity to utilize the skills I have acquired. Work Experience IT Technical Support Specialist I Cumberland County - Carlisle, PA November 2012 to Present Deployment and testing of Windows 7 and 8 on new and current computers.  • Work with customers who call or submit tickets to resolve the issues at hand.  • Create and test group policy for new systems.  • Create new policy/documentation and edit current policies/documentation. IT Security Intern March 2012 to November 2012 Research projects security team is working on (New antivirus solution, encryption solution, incident response policy).  • Manage our current antivirus solution to ensure all definitions are up to date.  • Help deploy new Windows 7 boxes to various departments.  • Assist with any miscellaneous projects where needed. Help Desk Analyst Innovative Business Concepts - Harrisburg, PA August 2011 to March 2012 Use Remedy to create and update help desk tickets and change requests for various agencies.  • Answer calls and emails for help desk tickets and change requests.  • Write policies regarding the new ticketing system to be used at the help desk. Mentor Flextronics - Harrisburg, PA February 2011 to August 2011 Train new employees in POS and troubleshooting.  • Be acting supervisor if supervisor is not present. Customer Service Technician September 2009 to February 2011 Troubleshoot cell phones, mobile hotspots/data usb drives, and netbooks with Verizon service.  • Sell accessories and enhanced data features.  • Educate customers on how to use their device.  Technical Skills  Networking: Helped troubleshoot network lines, assisted with punching down and creation of patch cables.  Software: Microsoft Office Suite, Windows, Windows Server, Exchange, Antivirus Management (Sophos and Symantec), Remedy  Mobile: Smartphones, Tablets (RIM, IOS, Android, Palm OS, Windows)  Hardware: Repair and built desktops.  Languages: C++  Other: Some Computer Forensics experience Education Bachelors of Science in Information Technology Central Pennsylvania College - Harrisburg, PA March 2013 Associate in Technology ITT Technical Institute - Harrisburg, PA March 2011