Information Security Analyst, Information Security GRC Information <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span>, Information <span class="hl">Security</span> GRC Otsego, MN Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Information Security Analyst, Information Security GRC COUNTRY Financial - Minneapolis, MN February 2018 to Present • Safeguard the organization’s information through the performance of vendor and application risk assessments, according to COUNTRY policies and standards as well as applicable regulatory requirements   • Lead the Security Awareness team   o Conduct quarterly phishing training email campaigns   o Create annual security awareness training, coordinated launch and follow-up notifications   o Coordinate semi-annual security sweeps and follow-up   o Coordinate semi-annual company wide shred day   • Ensure the organization's vendors, applications and organizational changes adhere to the organization’s risk tolerance  • Information Security GRC resource for project initiatives, serving as security risk consultant. Research general and industry-specific security best practices, providing security requirements to project teams  • Review and define information security policies and standards  • Participate in projects and assessments on risk determination. Identify, quantify and communicate risk to customers with a wide variety of backgrounds (technical and business)  • Adhere to Technical, Administrative and Physical controls to safeguard information security. Drive assessments through interviews and relationships to understand and quantify appropriate risks   • Use of regulations/ security standards such as GLBA, PCI, HIPAA, FFIEC. Utilize industry standard Risk Assessment approaches such as NIST 800-30 IT Support Technician Fluke - Plymouth, MN October 2016 to February 2018 Providing IT support for 50 local users and phone support for thousands more worldwide. Some duties include:  ?      Document issues/requests, actions taken to resolve issue, and escalating unresolved issues to the appropriate groups utilizing Service Manager and Foot Prints ticketing systems.  ?      Diagnose and resolve computer hardware, software and network connectivity related issues.  ?      Identified and removed malware, configure peripherals, re-image computers, password resets, equipment recycle, and adding computers on the corporate domain.  ?      Provided hardware recommendations based on the computing requirements for the user/position  ?      Vetted to provide Support for Confidential and ITAR (The International Traffic in Arms Regulations) information and users. Onsite at Fluke, IT Support Technician Contractor CompuCom - Plymouth, MN November 2015 to October 2016 Providing IT support for 50 local users and phone support for thousands more worldwide. Some duties include:  ?      Document issues/requests, actions taken to resolve issue, and escalating unresolved issues to the appropriate groups utilizing Service Manager and Foot Prints ticketing systems.  ?      Diagnose and resolve computer hardware, software and network connectivity related issues.  ?      Identified and removed malware, configure peripherals, re-image computers, password resets, equipment recycle, and adding computers on the corporate domain.  ?      Provided hardware recommendations based on the computing requirements for the user/position  ?      Vetted to provide Support for Confidential and ITAR (The International Traffic in Arms Regulations) information and users. Education Associate in Computer Networking and Telecommunications Anoka Ramsey Community College September 2013 to December 2016 B.S. in Business Management St. Cloud State University 2004 to 2007 Skills Cisco, training, Security, Information Security, Network Security Links http://linkedin.com/in/chrisdirks Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ CompTIA Network+ CompTIA Security+ CompTIA Linux+ Present