Clinical IT Analyst Clinical <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Clinical IT Analyst - Houston Methodist Hospital Houston, TX I am seeking a position in the technology field that will provide me with an opportunity to  grow as an IT professional and apply my educational skills, background, and abilities to help accomplish and exceed various goals that will be set before me. Work Experience Clinical IT Analyst Houston Methodist Hospital - Houston, TX August 2012 to Present Executing projects as directed involving but not limited to technology refreshes, inventory  management, system imaging/staging and various software/program distribution.    Support and train medical staff members in a wide range of software applications as needed.    Manage active directory by creating accounts, resetting passwords, and allowing access to different directories.    Troubleshoot/Resolve IP, networking, routing, and network security issues. Information Technology Specialist United States Army Reserve - Lake Charles, LA June 2010 to Present Install, operate, and perform unit maintenance on multi-functional/multi-user information  processing systems and peripheral equipment and auxiliary devices.    Setup user permissions within the unit.    Troubleshoot automation equipment and systems to the degree required for isolation of malfunctions to specific hardware or software.    Configure information processing equipment into required operating configurations.    Perform senior operator and systems administrator duties and unit level maintenance functions on assigned computer systems.    Compile production report data and quality control information.    Assist less experienced soldiers in the installation, operation, and maintenance of information  processing equipment. Net Security Administrator US Army Financial Management Command - Kuwait April 2013 to February 2014 Administering roles and permissions to multiple Financial Management System Applications across theater.    Diagnose computer problems and modem/network connectivity issues.    Assist with web site design projects.    Conduct data system studies and prepare documentation. IT Support KBR - Houston, TX April 2011 to August 2012 Troubleshoot everyday problems by providing remote assistance to internal users and external  clients.    Participate in defining support processes and procedures.    Help with the testing and implementation of new hardware and software along with various other KBR applications.    Coordinate with desktop, network, voice and security monitoring teams to resolve issues. Education B.S. in Business Administration/Information Technology Columbia Southern University August 2011 to 2013 Associate of Applied Science in Business Columbia Southern University August 2011 to 2012 Southeastern Louisiana University August 2006 to 2008 Skills Hardware Installation PC's from IBM 386 to Intel Pentium 4 Mobile CPU components Network Cards, Sound Cards Video Cards, Ram and Video Memory and Web Cams Multiple Hard Drives/Floppy Drives CD-ROM, CD-RW, DVD Printer/Parallel/USB/Mouse Ports Wireless Adapters, Microprocessors Serial/Cable Connections, Modems Routers, Power Supplies, Cooling Fans Batteries Operating Systems/Software Applications Windows 95/98/ME/XP/Vista/7, DOS, MS-Office (word, access-beginner, excel, Power-Point, Outlook), Citrix, WinZip, Flash Path, SQL/HTML-Beginner, MS Server 2000, 2003, NT4.0, VPN, SAP, Citrix TCP/IP aspects, LAN, WAN, N +, A +, Various Internet Browsers, Turbo Tax, MS-Outlook, Norton Anti-virus Additional Information DoD Secret Security Clearance  Microsoft Certified IT Professional: 70-685 Win 7 Enterprise Desktop Support Tech  Microsoft Certified IT Professional: 70-680 Win 7 Configuration  Notary Public Certified in the State of Texas