Solutions Architect - IoT, Analytics, & AI Solutions Architect - IoT, Analytics, &amp; AI Solutions Architect - IoT, Analytics, & AI Houston, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Solutions Architect - IoT, Analytics, & AI Hewlett Packard Enterprise - Houston, TX March 2017 to Present * Architect end to end IoT solutions for Fortune 500 companies across numerous industries in North America.  * Develop client ready demos and proof of concepts with bleeding edge technology in conjunction with the IoT R&D team in the North America IoT Innovation Lab to demonstrate HPE technology and solutions to customers.  * Streamline sale cycles by creating hybrid IoT solution offerings utilizing HPE's and partner's technology.   * Lead efforts with system integrators and partners to develop joint solutions, influence their product strategy and roadmap, and drive short and long term opportunities.   * Present at conferences to discuss IoT strategy and to enable customers, partners, and the internal workforce to build world class IoT solutions.   * Author internal technical papers and develop company wide training curriculums around IoT and Big Data to accelerate sales pursuits in relevant opportunities. Solutions Architect Hewlett Packard Enterprise - Atlanta, GA June 2016 to March 2017 * Participated in nine month leadership development program that provided intensive training in cloud technologies, datacenter architecture, and infrastructure strategy targeting to accelerate skills development and career path progression.  * Assisted local Enterprise Architects in developing solutions by gathering customer requirements and creating architectures that comprised of datacenter and cloud infrastructures.  * Selected to train and mentor future Technology Architects in the New Hire Program due to strengths in technical aptitude and leadership qualities.  * Led the recruitment efforts at the University of Minnesota for the next wave of college hires with a successful hiring of a candidate. IT Security Analyst Intern 3M - Saint Paul, MN May 2015 to August 2015 * Improved 3M's security posture by collaborating with global contacts to ensure endpoint devices were receiving up to date security services relevant to regulations in each country.   * Led project in the development of a web application that provided basic functions of an enterprise security console without users having direct access to the console to mitigate the risks of unauthorized security actions.  * Increased average successful detections of potential threats from 7,000 to above 900,000 in two months by enhancing automated detection capabilities of enterprise security applications.  * Reduced cycle time of business related processes with the development of a real-time data visualization application utilizing Webtrends and d3.js. IT Intern Federal Bureau of Investigation - Minneapolis, MN May 2014 to August 2014 * Prevented the loss of intellectual property and assurance of business continuity for entities in the United States by investigating imminent cyber security threats and providing appropriate information and guidance to allow for successful resolution.  * Enforced internal IT security measures including management of administrative rights for data, data systems, networks, encryption software, and voice systems.  * Installed and performed maintenance on all IT systems and servers across enclaves. Education Bachelors of Science in Business in Management Information Systems University of Minnesota - Minneapolis, MN August 2012 to May 2016 Skills Edge Computing Architectures (2 years), Cognitive Computing Solutions (2 years), M2M Architectures (2 years), Datacenter Architectures (2 years), Video Analytics Solutions (2 years), Hadoop Architectures (2 years), AWS (2 years), Microsoft Azure (2 years), SAP Leonardo (2 years), PTC ThingWorx (2 years), Tableau (2 years), R (1 year), Python (1 year), SQL (1 year), IoT Solutions (2 years), Artificial Intelligence (2 years), Machine Learning (2 years), Deep Learning (2 years), AWS (2 years), Solution Architect, Azure Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/rynicolay Certifications/Licenses Accredited Solutions Expert (ASE): Server Solutions Architect November 2016 to November 2019 Accredited Technical Professional (ATP): FlexNetwork Solutions March 2017 to March 2020 Accredited Technical Professional (ATP): Storage Solutions October 2016 to October 2019 Machine Learning Present AWS Certified Solutions Architect - Associate June 2018 to June 2020