Cloud Analyst Cloud <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Cloud Analyst Ashburn, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Cloud Analyst CACI International Inc - Washington, DC November 2016 to Present • Present financial and technical information to leadership at DHS USCIS (CIO, DCIO, CISO, COO, Directors, Branch Chiefs). Provide direction to leadership on cost management initiatives to pursue, including Reserved Instance Policy and Enterprise Tagging Standards.  • Financial management, budget enforcement, and compliance lead for multi-million dollar contracts, 65+ Amazon Web Services (AWS) accounts, 200+ stakeholders, 120 USCIS applications. Responsible for reduction of AWS spending by $200K/month. Achieved in several weeks through exhaustive analysis, presentations, focused discussion with Division Chiefs, and escalation to appropriate parties.  • Designed official USCIS AWS Tagging Standards. Managed project, including 200+ stakeholders involved to implement new standards across all accounts. Tags Standards allow uniform aggregation of information from USCIS AWS accounts in a manner that can be perpetually reported upon and reviewed by leadership (CIO, CFO), determining the status of the overall USCIS migration to Cloud.  Central purchaser for USCIS AWS Reserved Instances. Designed and authored official USCIS Reserved Instance Policy, which maximizes savings while reducing financial risk and obligation to USCIS.  • Coordinate with USCIS Contracting Office to determine appropriate federal funding for AWS projects.   • Design purchase plans and personalized cost reduction plans per account according to historical spending, usage, account purpose. Continually analyze AWS use and spending, create budgetary predictions, determine and communicate meaning and implications of data. Utilize Microsoft Excel and Power BI heavily to present expenses, daily spend rates, forecasts, cumulative spending, and graphed databases.  • System Administration, Identity Access Management: System Administrator and Approver for CloudCheckr and CloudAbility. Coordination with vendor for seamless integration and migration. Incorporated Single Sign-On. Designed and implemented ServiceNow protocol for access request approval and denials. Manage new processes, maintenance, downtimes, user creation, continuous development, troubleshooting.  ServiceNow/AWS Jumpbox Project: Integrated AWS Jumpbox Access with ServiceNow, which automatically grants access upon a request’s approval, through the use of an AWS SQS Queue and EC2 Chef server. Managed project on expedited timeline, completed in entirety within 1 month’s time, including compliance with security standards and fully documentated. IT Security Analyst ( IT Security, Access Management) Inova Health System - Sterling, VA June 2014 to April 2016 • Discovered loss and created process to successfully recover $30K of RSA software tokens. Discovered issue, identified root cause, researched and implemented resolution, informed affected analysts of new procedures to prevent future loss.   • 24/7 On-Call: Investigate, determine, repair cause of incidents within SLA. Management escalation to expedite event resolution. Communicate new procedures, known errors, resolutions. Troubleshoot user access. Complete emergency terminations, immediate removal of access.  • Process development, documentation, and training of personnel on Oracle Identity Manager. Designed new processes based on thorough analysis of requirements. Train personnel and develop training materials for system procedures and administration. Create and maintain documentation in Microsoft Visio, Excel, Word related to processes and policies.  Across-team coordination to integrate 50+ existing processes into ServiceNow, including use of Microsoft Visio to portray processes and requirements, design of ServiceNow Workflows, and development of Knowledge Base documentation.  • Project Management of ServiceNow Integration; RSA Fob Replacement; CareFusion orphan accounts. Primary analyst supervising ServiceNow, Provider Access Terminations, Citrix requests, CareFusion rosters.   • Manage user access provisioning within compliance of audit mandates, cybersecurity standards, SLA’s, HIPAA requirements. Coordinate with management and users to identify access requirements, explain/troubleshoot accesses, explain and justify cybersecurity standards.  • Access Management and System Administration of the following: Active Directory, Microsoft Exchange, VPN, RSA Citrix, LANDesk, OIM, shared drives, CareFusion, VISICU/eCare Manager, Lawson, HCAP, Xactimed, ANSOS/One-Staff, HPF, HBF, HBI, MSOW, ECIN, HBOC, HPM, EPIC, kiosks, ImageCast/PACS, Soft Lab/Cerner, Safety Always, Apollo, OBIX, Passport/Onesource. IT Project Management Assistant ( IT Business/Service Management, Server Engineering) Inova Health System - Sterling, VA June 2013 to January 2014 ServiceNow Implementation Project – Inova IT Business/Service Management:  • System Administrator; Testing Coordinator; Knowledge Manager; Core Implementation Team member.  • Researched, authored, published documentation on data collection and analysis, user community training and instruction, project management, platform maintenance, system requirements, test scenario creation, testing execution, optimal system performance.  • Created user community testing initiative to determine go-live requirements. Generated testing scenarios; scheduled testing; tested users; analyzed results; organized data; presented feedback, results and proposed appropriate solutions to upper management, ensured follow-through of approved task items.  • Conducted, led reviews on application/system administration, project administration, development.  • Coordinated with all members of Implementation Team and Core Implementation Team to ensure completion of go-live requirements.  • Researched platform functionalities for improved application development and feasible growth.  -----  Symantec Endpoint Protection – Inova IT Server Engineering:  • Symantec Endpoint Protection System Administrator.  • Collected, organized, analyzed, distributed Microsoft Excel data involving investigation and neutralization of security threats.  • Investigated viral network intrusions and security events through problem analysis. Determined, presented, and implemented solutions based on thorough analysis of underlying causes.  • Researched, authored, distributed detailed documentation related to event resolution and problem analysis.  • Coordinated with event-affected users to determine root cause of malfunction; remotely and locally troubleshoot devices.  -----  Windows 7 Deployment Project – Inova IT Server Engineering:  • LANDesk System Administrator.  • Collected data, identified testing requirements, tested applications. Aggregated, organized, presented results.  • Created migration plan for enterprise level, company-wide deployment. Data Entry Operator ( IT Security/Access Management, Customer Support Line/Help Desk) Inova Health System - Sterling, VA May 2013 to June 2013 • Inova IT Security/Access Management: Active Directory System Administrator. Created service requests to create new, updated, transferred access. Created, completed access removal requests within SLA.  • Inova IT Customer Support Line/Help Desk: Communicated with customers effectively to understand, troubleshoot, and resolve incidents.   Consistently received excellent reviews on customer service quality and skills. Documentation Specialist Roanoke College - Salem, VA January 2013 to May 2013 • Authored, provided supplementary classroom documentation and instruction for students with learning disabilities.  • Minimum of 3.0/4.0 GPA required. Education Bachelor's in Cloud Computing Northern Virginia Community College - Virginia 2020 Roanoke College - Salem, VA 2012 to 2013 Certifications/Licenses ITIL Present AWS Solutions Architect Associate March 2018 to March 2020 Additional Information CERTIFICATIONS & SKILLS    • ITIL Certification.  • Excellent communication skills: Written; spoken; interpersonal. Ability to clearly, concisely, and effectively communicate technical and  non-technical information to end-users, management, development teams, and departments.  • Leadership qualities include: Driven; thorough; analytical; unfaltering; communicative; dynamic; adaptable; proactive; motivated;  attentive; mindful; organized; professional; punctual; reliable; efficient; responsible.  • Takes initiative; pays attention to detail; has a broad view mindset; is quick to assimilate new information, processes; produces excellent  and thorough technical and non-technical documentation; brainstorms and implements creative solutions.  • General computer skills include: Microsoft Office Suite (including extensive knowledge and use of Visio, Excel, Word). Advanced  understanding of operating system and Internet functions.  • Fluent in French, English. Proficient in Mandarin, German.  • JavaScript, HTML, CSS coding abilities with experience in Windows, Mac, Linux.