Senior Information Assurance Consultant Senior Information Assurance Consultant Senior Information Assurance Consultant - Cybersoft Technologies Hyattsville, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Information Assurance Consultant Cybersoft Technologies - Lanham, MD 2014 to Present Educate information assurance professionals on developing, reviewing and updating information security system policies, System security plans, and security baselines in accordance with NIST, FISMA, OMB130 APP. III and other industry best security practices.  • Facilitate incident response handling sessions, using previous escalation process & procedures experience on events type, classification and severity.  • Educate new professionals of security awareness training, social engineering, phishing, vulnerabilities, and malware analysis.  • Provide instruction on business impact analysis, business continuity plan & procedure, lessons learned, contingency planning and disaster recovery. IT Security Specialist PepsiCo - Hyattsville, MD 2012 to 2014 Conduct risk assessments and collaborate with clients to provide recommendations regarding critical infrastructure and network security operations enhancement.  • Develop Continuity of Operations (COOP) and Disaster Recovery (DR) operations and conduct evaluation of COOP and DR during annual response training.  • Ensure information assurance by transmitting secure data between classified systems; perform penetration testing, malware reverse engineering, and Systems Security Assessment and Authorization within Security Operations Center (SOC) environment.  • Draft technical manuals, installation manuals, installation progress updates, and incident response plans in order to enhance system security documentation; create required system compliance reports and information requests.  • Enforce IT processes to ensure consistent, well-integrated application structures in full compliance with Sarbanes Oxley (SOX) and payment card industry-Data Security Standards (PCI DSS) regulations; participate in system security assessment & authorization as well as Federal Information Security Management Act Processes (FISMA). Cyber Security Policy and Compliance Analyst Txpoint Consulting - Largo, MD 2011 to 2012 Responsibilities  • Provide cyber security, privacy analysis and consulted throughout the security assessment and compliance lifecycle process.  • Planning, developing, finalizing and continuous monitoring of cyber security and privacy policies, programs, compliance artifacts and/or, standards, in support of government and industry security compliance, system accreditation and management.  • Managed and administered the documentation, validation and accreditation processes necessary to assure systems meet security and privacy requirements  • Conducts assessment of the effectiveness of clients IT security and privacy training program, including conduct of social engineering exercises to ensure training remains consistent with current cyber security and privacy threats and policies, and assists in achieving full compliance with any laws and regulations. Education BS in Accounting Ekiti State University MS in Accounting East Tennessee State University - Johnson City, TN MBA in MIS Bowie State University - Bowie, MD Certifications/Licenses Security + CompTIA Security + Additional Information Key Skills    Risk & Security  Assessment reporting    Risk Management    Vulnerability impact analysis    Authentication & Access Control    System Monitoring    Regulatory Compliance    Contingency planning  & Disaster Recovery    NIST 800 Series