Senior Consultant - Cyber Operations Specialist Senior Consultant - Cyber Operations Specialist Senior Consultant - Cyber Operations Specialist - Booz Allen Hamilton Centreville, VA Work Experience Senior Consultant - Cyber Operations Specialist Booz Allen Hamilton - McLean, VA June 2017 to Present Providing support to NSOC daily operations - Network operations maintenance and management & NSOC service design and implementation  ? Conducting research and analysis to provide weekly threat and vulnerability reports  ? Monitoring the network and supporting systems to detect security compromise events (including intrusions and virus incidents)  ? Inspecting, identifying and analyzing log files such as Network logs, Server/Workstation logs, SPLUNK logs, various log sources in order to detect and report anomalous malicious network activity  ? Performing incident triage on all incidents to determine scope, urgency, and potential operational impact  ? Conducting weekly trend analysis of security events to identify anomalous malicious activity and repeat infections Cyber Security Analyst TruShield Inc - Sterling, VA March 2016 to May 2017 Monitor and analyze network traffic and alerts  ? Investigate intrusion attempts and perform in-depth analysis of exploits  ? Provide network intrusion detection expertise to support timely and effective decision making of when to declare an incident  ? Review security events that are populated in a Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) system  ? Analyze a variety of network and host-based security appliance logs (Firewalls, NIDS, HIDS, Sys Logs, etc.) to determine the correct remediation actions and escalation paths for each incident.  ? Actively whitelisting and blacklisting domains, URLs, IPs, and hosts on various firewalls and Symantec Web & Email Gateways.  ? Document all activities during an incident and provide leadership with status updates during the life cycle of the incident  ? Assist with the development of processes and procedures (SOP) to improve incident response times, analysis of incidents, and overall SOC functions IT Support Specialist Fairfax Neonatal Associates - Fairfax, VA February 2015 to December 2015 Worked in a HIPAA compliant environment and ensured all IT systems and users were HIPAA compliant.  ? Managed all security permissions and changes made to accounts and containers using ADAudit Plus.  ? Inspected and managed emails through IronPort Email Security.  ? Provided support escalation and coordination directly with senior system and network engineers.  ? Created, modified, and managed user accounts, privileges, and organizational units in Active Directory and Microsoft Exchange.  ? Completed and maintained documentation for an inventory audit of over 1,560 company-wide IT assets Corporate IT Helpdesk Intern Ntrepid Corporation - Herndon, VA June 2014 to October 2014 Experience with various applications including Microsoft Exchange 2010, Outlook, VMware Fusion, Remote Desktop, Bomgar Remote Support, VPN Network Connect, Cisco Utility, and JIRA ticketing system.  ? Troubleshooting and providing helpdesk support to all clients/customers  ? Maintaining network connectivity through Solar Winds and providing server management/maintenance through VMware Client and remote desktop programs  ? Initiating and troubleshooting VoIP and all telephony via Cisco Unified CM and Cisco Unity Voicemail  ? OS and system software hardening, applying patches, initiating updates, routine maintenance and system improvement projects IT Support Intern Cigital Inc - Sterling, VA January 2014 to May 2014 Undertaking hardware break-fix issues and troubleshooting multiple operating systems  ? DBAN (Wiping) & Encryption/Decryption of HDDs  ? Employee IT orientation: imaging all company computers from server, updating BIOS and all related drivers, renaming computers and joining domain, running scripts for updating software on all computers, and adding the computers to OU in Active Directory. Education Master's Degree in Applied IT Cyber Security in Applied IT Cyber Security George Mason University May 2019 Bachelor's of Science degree in IT Networking & Telecommunications George Mason University A.S. degree in Applied IT Northern Virginia Community College