IT Support Technician <span class="hl">IT</span> Support Technician IT Support Technician - George Mason University South Riding, VA To obtain a technology position in a fast-paced challenging and team oriented environment, with a special interest in networking, network security, and/or programming. Work Experience IT Support Technician George Mason University - Manassas, VA January 2012 to Present Install software and update computers to prevent security breach from viruses, trojans, worms, malwares or spywares and improve software performance.  • Provide installation and troubleshoot support for network connectivity with internet access, file sharing, video conferencing, and network cards.  • Create and maintain documentation for hardware and network failures and their resolutions. Cyber Security Analyst Intern Syracuse Research Corporation - Chantilly, VA April 2012 to September 2012 Participated in working groups to develop mitigation strategies and prepare standard operating procedures (SOPs) as needed.  • Created and configured Network time and Syslog servers to synchronize time and enable log monitoring using both Linux and Windows Active Directory.  • Installed, supported, and maintained file servers, network access, analyze and resolve faults, monitored and fixed system anomalies to ensure optimum equipment performance.  • Built and installed rack equipment to hold dell servers, cisco switches and routers.  • Built virtual machines using VmWare for network monitoring resources.  • Created and implemented Group Polices throughout the network using Windows Active Directory.  • Created and assigned Static IP addresses to virtual machines to enable remote connection, in addition improved security by creating Domain Name System (DNS) for company's systems. Lead Transportation Security Officer Transportation Security Administration - Dulles, VA August 2008 to June 2011 Promoted to Lead Security Officer after one year.  • Supervised up to 50 employees and handled all personnel issues including security breaches, passenger conflict with polices and etc.)  • Monitored and evaluated team performance based off of Performance Accountability and Standards System (PASS) polices and producers.  • Mentored and presented new equipment to coworkers on improving security, and productivity.  • Documented Intel and Incident Reports to improve security and create new training measures to prevent same incidents from reoccurring.  Transportation Security Officer  • Maintained focus and awareness in a time pressured, and stressful environment to identify and locate potentially life threatening devices or people.  • Communicated with the public, giving directions and responding to inquires in a professional and courteous manner. Education BS in Network Security George Mason University - Fairfax, VA 2011 to 2013 Additional Information Operating Systems: Windows Server 2008 R2, Linux (Debian, and Ubuntu)  Programming Languages: HTML, JAVA, SQL  Networking Applications: Wireshark, Nmap, Cisco Packet Tracer, Cacti  Networking: LANs, WANs, VPN's, Firewalls, Cisco Routers, Switches, Dell servers  Virtualization: Esxi, Vsphere, Vm Workstation 8, Virtual box  Software Applications: MS Office 2007 & Project, Team Viewer, Anti-Virus Tools (Symantec, McAfee, etc.)  University Project:  • Created and directed a business which introduced cloud computing application services for small businesses and students.