Network Security Analyst Network <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Network Security Analyst - COMCAST Work Experience Network Security Analyst COMCAST April 2015 to Present Assisting with the review of Arc Sight events to determine any true intrusions. Investigate DDoS attacks, malwares, web sense that are prone to Comcast Network and NBC Universal  • Firewall and ACL connectivity issue  • Websense related issue  • Security Administration issues related to AAA, radius and LDAP.  • Providing Tier-1 incident response analysis and support.  • Managing the Check Point and Juniper Firewalls (NSM), Routers of Comcast Network; troubleshooting connectivity issues  • Applying NAT/PAT at the vendor and Comcast side; setting up IPSec tunnel. Escalating issues and coordinating with Tier-2 and follow up as required.  • Identifying and remediating any threats and vulnerabilities as a Security Monitoring (SOC), Triage, and Escalation to SRC.  • Documenting incident results and reporting details through ticketing system.  • Researching, analyzing and understanding log sources from security and networking devices such as firewalls, routers, anti-virus products, and operating systems.    RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Experience in a large enterprise security environment.  • Troubleshooting securid RSA Keyfobs and managing Symantec control compliance suite for verifying fourth-party risk questions for analyzing vendor security controls throughout the information value chain.  • Troubleshooting CISCO, SSN VPN access issues.  • Managing the Check Point and Juniper Firewalls, Routers of Comcast Network.  • Providing Tier-1 incident response analysis and support.  • Escalating issues to Tier-2 and follow up as required.  • Identifying and remediating any threats and vulnerabilities.  • Documenting incident results and reporting details through ticketing system.  • Researching, analyzing and understanding log sources from security and networking devices such as firewalls, routers, anti-virus products, and operating systems.  • Assisting with the review of ArcSight events to determine any true intrusions.  • Troubleshooting CISCO, SSN VPN access issues.  • Managing the Check Point and Juniper Firewalls, Routers of Comcast Network.  • Adroit Arcsight cases such as Symentec CSP, Symentec SEP, Malware and Fireeye cases.  • Provided Tier-1 incident response analysis and support.  • Escalate issues to Tier-2 and follow up as required.  • Identify and remediate any threats and/or vulnerabilities.  • Document incident results and report details through ticketing system.  • Research, analyze and understand log sources from security and networking devices such as firewalls, routers, anti-virus products, and operating systems.  • Assist with the review of Arc Sight events to determine any true intrusions.  • Experience working in Security Response Center. IT Security Engineer VEUSOFT June 2014 to April 2015 ArcSight(ESM): Support the deployment, configuration, and administration of the customer Security Information and Event Management Platform.  • Practical knowledge in Bit9 which enables a security software that detects malicious behavior and prevents malicious files from attacking an organization  • Install all new hardware, systems, and software for networks.  • Install, configure, maintain network services, equipment and devices.  • Supported administration of servers and server clusters.  • Evaluate systems using vulnerability scanners and manual techniques to verify system security settings and configurations. Processes the requests for access to IT resources of the bank main data center thru the firewall.  • Processes creation of VPN tunneling to overseas branch offices at Europe, North America, and Asia.  • Processes creation of VPN request for remote users, third parties such as other banks, remittance companies and mobile phone companies.  • Analyzed syslogs generated by IDS, IPS, firewall, router and switch devices.  • Provided reoccurring reports for network and host-based security solutions.  • CSIRT support as needed in response to information security related events.  • Participate in DR/COOP exercises and continuous improvement processes.  • Maintain and update relevant system and process documentation and develop ad-hoc reports as needed.  • Assist the development of security tool requirements, trials, and evaluations, as well as security operations procedures and processes.  • Establish and maintain a strong working relationship with all team members.  • Managed all system back-up and restore protocol.  • Plans and supports network and computing infrastructure.  • Perform Troubleshooting analysis of servers, workstations and associated systems.  • Documented network problems and resolution for future reference in ArcSight reports.  • Monitored system performance and implements performance tuning.  • Managed user accounts, permissions, email, anti-virus, anti-spam. GPRS, Microprocessor and HOST WIRELESS SENSOR NETWORKS September 2014 to December 2014 September 2014 - December 2014  • This seminar was about discussing the design method of road lightening intelligent control system, which was built up by wireless personal network technology, GPRS, Microprocessor and HOST computers and researched on the system including the structure, key technologies, software design and encryption using a ZigBee based wireless devices which allow more efficient street lamp system management.  • This system allows substantial energy savings with increased performance and maintainability. WIRELESS SENSOR NETWORKS - Bangalore, Karnataka September 2014 to December 2014 Analyzed a technique for estimating the fraction of the arriving traffic at a router that is non-responsive to congestion.  • Developed Mathematical Models for High Non-responsive load with a basic concept of chalk pieces.  • Algorithm depends on drop probability and the queue length. There are a number of options for measuring drop probability and queue length.  • Bottleneck link topology is the basic concept for developing a successfull algorithm.  • This research can be future enhanced by • Auto-tuning the estimation algorithm  • Building prototypes of applications based on the estimation technique.    EXTRA CURRUCULAR ACTIVITIES AND ACHIEVEMENTS:  • Participated in a CLOUD COMPUTING Workshop organized by MICROSOFT at SVCE , Bangalore.  • Participated in a MATLAB Workshop organized by IEEE at SVCE , Bangalore.  • Represented Rotary Youth Leadership Award at St. Joseph's Indian High School, Bangalore.  • Active student in college curricular activities and Organized the cultural fest held in college. SKIN BURN DETECTION August 2013 to December 2013 Determine the position of the skin burn and Used Matlab, Computer vision toolbox and Image processing toolbox to vanish the skin burn in the output image.  • Performance degradation in Template Matching and kNN classifiers in comparison with SVM is due to the consideration of diverse database constructed from the images. INTERNSHIP Videotronix Bangalore, India - Bangalore, Karnataka October 2010 to July 2013 Oct '10 - july'13  Network Security Operations  (GE Capital Communications serving voice, private data networks to enterprises in the Hyderabad. It provides the state-of-the-art digital communications technologies to small and medium enterprises and offers solutions for corporate clients based on ubiquitous, value-priced, high-speed data services over a nationwide broadband network)    RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Responsible for maintaining the EWSD switch and DSL Broadband internet network. Ensure all network devices (i.e.Cisco Routers/Switches, Alcatel ASAM & RU's, etc.) are 24x7 operational with up-to-date configurations to prevent network related issues/problems.  • Ensure all backup data configurations are in-placed and working when needed in case of a network failure to speedup network recovery.  • Provide leadership and training to subordinates to ensure high-level telephone and broadband internet service to costumers.  • Provided Sales Engineering during sales presentations for high-revenue customers.  • Pre-sales technical expertise provided to sales team.  • Planning, design and documentation of projects and movements for the global networks:  o Migration of network segments from flat to hierarchical architecture or vice versa.  o Migration of network connections from unsecured connections to secured connections. Such as Internet VPN to MPLS networks as main connections to the MPLS network.  o Upgrade of LAN connections, such as adding switches for redundancy or capacity planning.  o VPN design for sales and remote offices.  • Configuration of MPLS connectivity to Client MPLS network.  • Monitor Client's global network:  • WAN Reports from CACTI for network devices such as:  o Lotus Notes server monitoring.  o Trend Micro Total Control Manager Server Anti-virus server for global anti-virus deployment.  • Trouble Ticketing and Problem Escalation:  • Router, switch, and WAP connectivity.  • Internet access for each site.  • VPN connectivity (site-to-site, client-sever, and RAS VPN).  • Works closely with international carriers and local admins for troubleshooting the network.  • Escalation to Level 2 support on infrastructure, security, application, database and programming issues.  • Trouble ticket creation thru the use of Remedy Viatil.    INTERNSHIP:  Bharath Heavy Electrical Limited (BHEL), Bangalore.  • Contributed as one of the members involved in establishing new powerplant in the southern part of india  • Performed administrative task and maintaining client relations  • Assisted for analyzing tools and techniques for the outcomes with the investigative unit.    VIDEOTRONIX , Bangalore,India  • Assisted in the design and construction of electrical engineering equipment and systems using established tools specifications.  • Assisted in the review and monitoring of testing and test results of electrical engineering devices, systems or their equipment or components to ensure proper functionality.  • Identifying electrical engineering problems and recommended corrective action.  • Reviewed technical electrical engineering project design documents and submittals in signal processing.  • Manages small business sponsorships and quality of features.    PROJECTS:  AUTOMATIC TOLLBOOTH OPERATION USING IMAGE  PROCESSING ON AN FPGA: January 2013- May 2013  • To develop an ASIC that performs automatically, tollbooth operation instead of manually controlling them.  • To design a chip that enables easy and fast access to lanes by recording the details of customers who have paid toll prior to their arrival and in turn perform image processing at the tollbooth to provide permission to access the lanes.  • Algorithm is developed in matlab and enhanced by using FPGA (Spartan 3E). Education Master of Science in Electrical & Electronics Engineering University Of Bridgeport - Bridgeport, CT Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics and Communication Engineering Sri Venkateshwara College Of Engineering Communication Networking Visvesvaraya Technological University Additional Information SKILLS:    Programming Language: C, VHDL and Verilog.  Software Skills: Math Lab, Code Composer Studio, Cadence Virtuoso Spectre, CAD, Solid Edge.  Networking: Switches, Routers, Hubs, Cables, LAN, WAN ,TCP/IP, DNS.  Security: ArcSight(SIEM), Symantec Control Compliance Suite, RSA Key fobs, CADA , Bit9, Radius, Symentec (Enterprise Management Encryption), Threat Analysis and Threat Intelligence, Incident Response, Loglogic