IT Network Infrastructure Engineer <span class="hl">IT</span> Network Infrastructure Engineer The most successful people refuse to be defined by their failures. Pearland, TX Work Experience IT Network Infrastructure Engineer Subcontractor - Houston, TX April 2018 to Present ? Market and sell home and business automation packages and network solutions accessible via mobile and cloud    ? Install IoT devices such as smart lighting, smart appliances, and more for commercial and residential clients    ? Configure surveillance systems like digital video recording, network video recording, and cloud video recording    ? Apply technical and networking knowledge to configure, automate, and maintain client's IoT systems and devices    ? Automate and integrate APIs from separate smart devices or third-party systems using Python to enhance efficiency    ? Provide consulting and training to clients on the functionality of newly installed systems and devices Web Developer/Specialist Netsync Network Solutions - Houston, TX July 2017 to April 2018 ? Developed dynamic web applications for clients in Python/Django, Ruby on Rails, CMS, and .NET/C#    ? Designed responsive graphical user interfaces with CSS/Bootstrap and custom animations with Javascript and jQuery    ? Generated interactive reports from multiple data sources to analyze and look for patterns within sales using Power BI    ? Conducted market research, competitive analysis, and used data visualization tools to improve sales and marketing    ? Published online marketing SEO/Paid Search campaigns, Social Media campaigns, and Display/Digital campaigns    ? Trained marketing team on creating automated email campaigns that generated leads through database management    ? Created algorithms to track prospects and their online behavior in Microsoft Dynamics to directly advertise to them    ? Created and administered SharePoint intranet sites enhancing business processes using workflows and forms IT Engineer/Developer Hewlett-Packard Inc - Houston, TX December 2016 to April 2017 ? Saved HP Inc. $100,000 annually in licensing costs by migrating an automation system to a different hosting provider    ? Automated hundreds of PDF templates by mapping variables derived from millions of incoming XML data via Python    ? Designed PDF documents such as invoices, quotes, contracts, orders, and tax documents used in daily operations    ? Supported a software suite via Windows Server 2012 that used several custom tools to archive millions of documents    ? Led a team of developers using Python and PowerShell scripting to deploy scalable windows services on new servers    ? Formulated work breakdown structures, flowcharts, and standard documentation for the HP Operations team    ? Provided technical support for storing and securing critical files preserving information security and data integrity IT Systems Specialist San Jose Clinic - Houston, TX August 2015 to May 2016 ? Consulted with multiple printer vendors and saved the clinic $12,000 annually after negotiating a new contract    ? Integrated XML data from various SQL databases and converted into a single SQL database to conform to HIPAA law    ? Created relational tables, joins, views, indexes, and stored procedures in SQL to query and display data using C#    ? Coded a PowerShell script to automate the creation of new user accounts and email addresses in Active Directory    ? Reduced login time in a fast-paced healthcare environment from 1 minute and 9 seconds to an average of 14 seconds    ? Updated and maintained 25 virtual servers daily including Windows Servers and Linux Servers in VMware Information Security Analyst, Internship Citgo Petroleum - Houston, TX September 2014 to April 2015 ? Administered access to SAP users and role owners for 3,000+ employees securing internal systems for all departments    ? Analyzed and documented IP data packets from SAP to Excel spreadsheets in compliance with the Privacy Act    ? Monitored security daily on systems such as Oracle databases, IBM AIX, and Windows network and firewall Education Bachelor's in Management Information Systems C.T. Bauer College of Business, University of Houston - Houston, TX August 2011 to May 2015 Skills Cisco Certifications/Licenses The Wolff Center For Entrepreneurship Corporate Certificate May 2012 to Present Additional Information SKILLS  .NET, C#, VB, Ruby on Rails, XML, SOAP, JSON, REST, AJAX, Javascript, jQuery, React Native, SQL Server, T-SQL, MySQL,  PostgreSQL, JAVA, PHP, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Powershell, Bash, VMware, Microsoft Servers, Visual Studio, Power BI, IBM  SPSS, Google Analytics, Google Adwords, Facebook Ads, Shopify, Wordpress, SAP, SharePoint, Linux, Git, SVN, Cisco,  Symantec, Excel, Analysis, MVC, Waterfall, Agile, Fluent in English & Spanish