Information Security Associate Information <span class="hl">Security</span> Associate Information Security Associate - Mastercard Kansas City, MO Self-motivated and goal oriented, can multitask and meet deadlines in a fast-paced work environment. Possess leadership skills, diligence, and dedication. Work well in groups and a self-starter. Enjoy solving complex problems and embrace learning new things. My thirst for knowledge will help your company fulfill its mission and reach its goals if you give me the chance. Speak French fluently. Work Experience Information Security Associate Mastercard January 2019 to Present • Manages the exchange of cryptographic keys and related material between MasterCard and its customers for the enablement and continuity of the services offered.  • Operates the security and key management systems used by the KMD within the boundaries of operational and security procedures.  • Provides support to both internal and external customers, on both specific technical questions relating to the services as well as general operational or procedural aspects.  • Participates in the operational set-up of new security services offered by MasterCard and in the improvement of the operational efficiency of existing services. Change Implementation Analyst PM Core/Registration October 2016 to October 2018 • Configured Cerner Millennium software per end user requests (through Remedy) in the solution areas of Registration/Person Management and Core in accordance with AMS Change Management Process.  • Coordinated several projects (new clinics build) involving multiple solutions (FirstNet(Ambulatory), Scheduling, Patient Accounting, Charge Services, Orders).  • Advised clients on several occasions on the codes (aliasing) to use to have Cerner interfaced properly with their foreign systems.  • Assisted in a site Go-LIVE of more than 15 inpatient units and over 100 rooms involving over 30 service requests being logged to numerous teams.  • Gathered requirements and determined scope of work to appropriately estimate delivery effort and delivery timeframes.  • Evaluated the impact of changes within client environments and with support, made recommendations in accordance with Cerner standards. Technical Solution Analyst PM Core/Registration January 2016 to October 2016 • Performed troubleshooting investigations, including querying database tables and reviewing front-end applications.  • Participated in the execution and communication of solution delivery strategy and work-plans.  • Consistently met client service level requirements.  • Contributed to team financial objectives by maximizing efficiency and billability and demonstrates the ability to work proactively. IT Intern (SharePoint Developer) HR Talent Management department May 2015 to August 2015 • Designed and Maintained a SharePoint website for the HR Talent Management department.  • Trained the department's personnel on the basic and essential functions of the SharePoint website.  • Created a database for the department to help manage the training program.  • Maintained the Computer Training Rooms and install the required software.  • Verified and Troubleshoot (when needed) the computers in the Training Rooms before any test performance. IT Help Desk Associate Agnike Motors, LLC March 2014 to August 2014 • Designed a database document to manage the inventory system and analyzed data to determine the most sold vehicles.  • Installed, tested and configured new workstations, peripheral equipment and software.  • Ensured each workstation has a computer, monitor, keyboard, mouse, hard drive, and any additional specialized equipment. Education B.S. in Networking & Telecommunication George Mason University, Volgenau School of Engineering August 2013 to December 2015 Associate Degree of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology Northern Virginia Community College August 2009 to May 2013 Skills Security, Sharepoint, Ccna, Networking, Switching