IT Security Engineer <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> Engineer IT/Cyber Security Springdale, MD Work Experience IT Security Engineer ASRC Federal / NASA-Goddard Space Flight Center - Greenbelt, MD May 2017 to Present • Coordinated, tracked, monitored and delivered device change requests through the ITIL service lifecycle.   • Lead weekly CFRB (Center Firewall Review Board) which included firewall changes, recommendation of proper controls, and risk-based analysis on proposed firewall rules.  • Plan, coordinate and ensure successful completion of internal and external IT system security and policy audits.  • Prepared presentational materials and circulated artifacts for signature relevant to security processes and operations.  • Create, maintain, and document processes and procedures following standards and policies, including security configuration and change management.  • Assess, create, and track remediation timelines with system owners as it relates to email, web, and security control compliance; HTTPS BOD 18-01.  • Assist System Engineers in developing AWS Cloud Solutions for NASA project teams.  • Act as a network incident first responder for Security incidents by reviewing, verifying and mitigating vulnerabilities with system owners; was responsible for all public facing websites.  • Provide timely technical support to implement Federal mandates and directives;  • DNS Enforcement Plan  • Software Management   • Web Content Filtering Information Security Analyst CSRA - Baltimore, MD July 2015 to October 2016 Supported the implementation of a new privileged user security management tool within the SSA infrastructure to ensure that SSA complies with the Department of Homeland Security's Continuous Diagnostics and Monitoring (CDM) phase two initiatives (OMB Circular A-123)  ? Create test procedures and conduct tests for Dell TPAM product; record results  ? Conduct Business Process Procedures and Change Management  ? Draft user guides for Dell TPAM software configured to SSA's operating environment  ? Review, reform, and improve SSA Information Security Policy (ISP) document for SSA's Annual Review (NIST 800-53)  Information Security Specialist  ? Provided ICAM(Identity Credential Access Management) support to the SSA Mainframe (CA Top Secret®) for maintaining the appropriate security posture  ? Provided Access Control/Access Management - configured different type of environments based on user needs  ? Actively reviewed records for requesting, obtaining, and changing access to protected SSA data  ? Support the global planning and migration of new hardened SSA laptop deployment  ? Imaged/Re-imaged machines, implement McAfee Endpoint Encryption -Troubleshoot problems that may surface IT Technician/System Admin CSRA - Baltimore, MD January 2015 to July 2015 Patch management and endpoint security using KACE K1000 Systems Management Appliance  ? Automated patch management and deployed patches  ? Conducted security audits (SCAP Scanning/SP 800-53 controls)  ? Enforced security policies based on management requests  ? Review and assure software license compliance  ? Accurately monitored, logged, and solved incidents through help desk ticketing System (Sysaid)  ? Made backend modifications to web browsers based on DISA STIG security guidelines Education Masters of Cyber Security in Cyber Security University of Maryland - College Park, MD December 2017 Bachelor of Science in Information Technology Towson University - Towson, MD May 2014 Skills Access Control, Information Security, Network Security, It Security, Siem, Customer Service, Organizational Skills, Security Certifications/Licenses AWS Solutions Architect Additional Information Security +