Level 2 Service Desk Analyst Level 2 Service Desk <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Level 2 Service Desk Analyst - C3i Solutions Wilkes-Barre, PA Work Experience Level 2 Service Desk Analyst C3i Solutions - Pittston, PA October 2017 to Present • Act as a reference for all applications, hardware and processes for multiple supported clients, while retaining proficiency in each.  • Assist management in daily incident and reported issue monitoring.  • Documenting recommendations for troubleshooting and assuring Service Desk Analyst I awareness.  • Be knowledgeable in in technical issues and resolutions in commercial and proprietary hardware and software.  • Act as a liaison between the Service Desk, client support teams and 3rd party vendor services to ensure timely resolution of reported incidents.  • Proactively identify trending problems and develop solutions.  • Contribute current information to knowledge distribution channels and update information.  • Retain familiarity of Subject Matter Expert and Level 1 Technician functions in order to assume responsibility in case of absence.  • Coordinate available personnel to ensure coverage of incoming interactions.  • Perform customer support related tasks and special projects as assigned by management. Application Security Management Analyst C3i Solutions - Pittston, PA August 2015 to September 2016 • Perform Network Access Security. Administer end-user access which includes the creation, modifications and terminations of network accounts.  • Perform security access control (user administration). Manage security access to and within applications so that the appropriate people/groups have the correct access/update levels to the appropriate applications and associated functions in systems and applications.  • Perform End User access administration support. Maintain end user access procedures and access rights for responsible functions performed.  • Review and process all end user access requests in ticket tracking system.  • Monitor critical and high priority incidents & requests to ensure resolution within communicated Service Levels.  • Assess reported incidents and requests and as necessary, work directly with Sanofi service partners for escalation and timely issue resolution.  • Assist Service Desk Management with reporting, analysis or testing tasks.  • Contribute current technical information and best practices to the knowledge base.  • Liaise with IS and business partners to ensure timely resolution of incidents and requests within Service Levels.  • Act as an escalation point for the Service Desk, Service Desk management, On-Site Support, On-Site Support management and other IS Business Analysts for access related issues/requests.  • Maintain a working knowledge of all systems and how they interact to support the business.  • Other duties as assigned by management. Level 1 Service Desk Analyst C3i Solutions - Pittston, PA June 2014 to August 2015 • Receive all calls and e-mails on IT incidents or requests.  • Incident recording, classification, prioritization, and escalation.  • Lead multiple simultaneous problem management processes.  • Communicate with clients and IT teams on the progress of service requests.  • Troubleshoot client hardware and software issues.  • Work with clients via phone and email to provide guidance, troubleshooting, informal training, and assistance with applications or hardware.  • Assist users with account questions, passwords, and validity issues.  • Documentation Writing and Knowledge base Management.  • Create Installation and Support Documentation for IS supported systems.  • Update and maintain IS Knowledge/solution databases.  • Create management reports to monitor service levels versus service goals.  • Analysis of requests to determine trends and calling patterns, then making recommendations to improve service levels. IT Analyst Intern RIG Financial Solutions - Lebanon, PA May 2013 to July 2013 • Troubleshoot hardware and software issues.  • Provide recommendations for IT infrastructure and services.  • Research new products and services to implement in the environment.  • Streamline business process to provide more efficient service to clients.  • Maintain and update client information databases. Machine Operator Schneider's Electric - Leesport, PA August 2012 to October 2012 • Operate and maintain various CNC machines.  • Provide basic maintenance of workplace while escalating and providing descriptions of more complex issues to specialized maintenance teams.  • Fabricate parts accordance with drawings, standard work documents, technical reference orders, technical manuals, technical orders, etc.  • Fabricate and overhaul, switch boxes and power distribution boxes.  • Assist other operators to fulfill orders in a timely fashion. Education B.S. in Information Sciences and Technology in Other Experience & Skills Pennsylvania State University - Reading, PA August 2010 to May 2014 Skills Desktop Support, Active Directory, Help Desk, Tech Support