IT Security Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Marketing Assistant - Diamond Resorts International Kissimmee, FL Case Management  Undertake assignments given by the Casework Supervisor; prioritize cases and set objectives in consultation with Supervisor. Keep detailed records of every case, referral, and contacts. Complete application and secure signatures on client forms, including releases of confidential information. Guide clients to choose the most appropriate route in accordance to their needs. Relate to finding out the needs of the client and helping the client to reach his goals and fulfill their needs. Attend training sessions.    Customer Service  Provide direct service and support to individuals or clients. Recruit, interview, and hire or sign up customers and staff. Establish and maintain relationships with other agencies and organizations in community to meet community needs and to ensure that services are not duplicated. Establish and oversee administrative procedures to meet objectives set by boards of directors or senior management. Participate in the determination of organizational policies regarding such issues as participant eligibility, program requirements, and program benefits. Prepare and maintain records and reports, such as, personnel records, or training manuals. Work Experience IT Security Analyst ATX/Broadview Networks, Inc - Philadelphia, PA November 2006 to April 2007 Central Office Tech (layoff) NOC II Specialist (layoff) XO Communications Inc - Edison, NJ November 2005 to November 2006 Account Management Specialist Vonage Holding Corp - Edison, NJ February 2005 to November 2006 Bankruptcy Analyst Franklin Credit Management Corp - New York, NY January 2004 to February 2005 Education Slippery Rock University Additional Information Key Skills:  • Customer Service  • Case Management  • Data Entry    • Communication  • Time Management  • Microsoft Office    • Notary Public  • Multitasking  • Softime