Information Security Analyst Information <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Information Security Analyst Puget Sound, WA Always open to information security (including digital forensics) and computer systems analysis opportunities in the greater Puget Sound Region (Tacoma, Seattle, Redmond, Bellevue, Olympia, Everett, etc.) Work Experience Information Security Analyst Independent Consultant - Puyallup, WA September 2012 to Present Confers with users to discuss issues such as computer data access needs, security violations, and programming changes.    Encrypts data transmissions and erects firewalls to conceal confidential information as it is being transmitted and to keep out tainted digital transfers.    Monitor current reports of computer viruses to determine when to update virus protection systems.    Modifies computer security files to incorporate new software, corrects errors, or changes individual access status.    Monitors use of data files and regulates access to safeguard information in computer files.    Trains users and promotes security awareness to ensure system security and to improve server and network efficiency.    Performs risk assessments and executes tests of data processing systems to ensure functioning of data processing activities and security measures. IT Instructor University of Washington Tacoma - Tacoma, WA September 2011 to June 2012 Prepared and delivered lectures to undergraduate students on the topics of programming, data structures, software design, and information assurance    Supervised students' in class laboratory work    Prepared course materials such as syllabi, handouts, and lab work.    Evaluated students' class work, assignments, and papers.    Initiated, facilitated, and moderated classroom discussions and activities. Computer Forensics Analyst Intern Lakewood Police Department - Lakewood, WA May 2011 to June 2012 Collected evidence from digital storage devices, storing it in conditions that preserved its integrity.    Performed digital forensic analysis on storage devices for multiple law enforcement agencies.    Operated and maintained computer forensic laboratory equipment.    Developed best practice standards resulting in a streamlined process from case intake to final report generation. Computer Technician Go2IT Group - Lorain, OH June 2008 to September 2010 Set up equipment for employee use, while performing and ensuring proper installation of cables, operating systems, or appropriate software.    Installed and performed minor repairs to hardware, software, or peripheral equipment, following design or installation specifications    Read technical manuals, conferred with users, and conducted computer diagnostics to investigate and resolve problems and provide technical assistance and support.    Conferred with staff, users, and management to establish requirements for new systems and modifications. Education BS in Information Technology and Systems University of Washington Tacoma - Tacoma, WA 2012 Associates of Arts Pierce College - Puyallup, WA 2008 Skills Information Assurance, Penetration Testing, Computer Forensics, Computer Systems Analysis, Software Development, Web Development, Backtrack Linux, Windows Platform, Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, Powerpoint), Visual Studio, Visio, Nipper, Nessus, Nmap/Zenmap, Maltego, IIS, Exchange Server, VirtualBox, Hyper-V, .NET, C#, CSS, HTML 4, Javascript, ASP.NET MVC 4. Links http://www.linkedin.com/pub/joshua-phelps/13/b1/175/ Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ Estimated receive date: May 2013 Groups Development Operations with Microsoft Technology January 2013 to Present As part of a Dev-Ops with Microsoft technologies research team, developing an ASP.NET MVC 4 web application to perform automated security assessments for small and enterprise level networks/systems based off a profile of controls derived from NIST best practices and compliance regulations where applicable. Publications Build, Attack, Analyze and Patch:The Iterated Approach to Pen Testing Virtual Cloud Infrastructures 2012-05-10 As part of a 5 person SCRUM team, built a fully functional virtual IaaS (Infrastructure as a service) and developed a specified security hardening methodology. This research work was written in an IEEE formatted white paper.