IT Engineer I <span class="hl">IT</span> Engineer I IT Engineer I - Walgreens Boots Alliance Seeking a challenging position as an Networks/Systems Professional where I  can utilize my skills to aid in the growth and success of the firm. Work Experience IT Engineer I Walgreens Boots Alliance - Mount Prospect, IL March 2016 to Present Monitor a wide variety of information and network systems that include, but are not  limited to: telecommunication circuits, LAN/WAN systems, routers, switches, firewalls,  servers, storage, backup, operating systems and core critical applications.  • Recognize, identify, and prioritize incidents in accordance with business requirements,  organizational policies and operational impact.  • Provide timely response to all incidents, outages, and performance alerts. Categorize  issues for escalation to appropriate technical teams with proper documentation and notifications.  • Collect and review performance reports for various systems, and report trends in hardware and application performance to assist senior technical personnel to predict  future issues or outages.  • Responsible for managing service request and executing standard changes with minimal  supervision. Communicate, collaborate and act as a team player with others in order to ensure continuity and coordination of services while executing these changes.  • Notify and engage third-party service providers of issues, outages, and remediation  status.  • Initiate incident management coordination by opening conference bridge, notifying  proper staff and management of major issues or outages, facilitating proper  communication with Service  • Desk staff, Technical Staff and manage outage communications.  • Coordinate with offshore staff for after-hours alerts and monitoring issues.  • Checkpoint Firewall monitoring, logs and policies.  • Tivoli Monitoring tools, nGenius, Smarts Network Monitoring(EMC), Zabbix, etc. Security Analyst Dell Secureworks - Lisle, IL May 2014 to March 2015 Management and monitoring of client IDS, IPS, firewall, DDoS mitigation, UTM, log  management, and other devices on Unix / Linux and Windows Operating Systems, etc.  • Performing highly detail-oriented work that involves performing security threat analysis  of various malware and web attacks, scheduling IDS signature platform updates and working with clients to remediate security related issues based on operational needs.  • Configure, and troubleshoot network intrusion detection devices and other security  systems via proprietary and commercial consoles, both local and remote.  • Bleeding-edge information security attacks and incident response situations on a daily  basis, as a Security Operations Center (SOC) Analyst within Dell SecureWorks' Managed  Security Services (MSS) division.  • Perform accurate and precise real-time analysis and correlation of logs/alerts from a multitude of client devices with a focus on the determination of whether said events  constitute security incidents.  • Packet analysis tools (TCPdump, Wireshark, Ngrep, etc.)  • Identify client security breaches and act as a security advocate for a number of well- established global enterprise clients.  • Well-known networking protocols and services (FTP, HTTP, SSH, SMB, LDAP, etc.)  Exploits, vulnerabilities, network attacks.  • Analyze and assess security incidents and escalate to client resources or appropriate  internal teams for additional assistance.  • Manage all customer situations in a professional manner with emphasis on customer  satisfaction, handle clients' requests and questions received via phone, e-mail, or an internal ticketing system in a timely and detail-oriented fashion in order to resolve a  multitude of information security related situations  • Monitoring Firewalls: Cisco, Juniper, Checkpoint, Palo Alto, etc. With basic tasks like checking policies, logs, creating short blocks, navigating through the OS. Production Support Analyst Blue Cross and Blue Shield IL - Waukegan, IL July 2013 to April 2014 Responsible for managing and controlling the processing of programs and peripheral equipment or software on the mainframe and/or distributed computer systems to ensure the highest levels of service and system availability are attained.  • Establishes production runs, ensuring that appropriate job control language, run  documentation and data files are available.  • Assist in job set-up, performs problem identification, escalation and resolution.  • Communicates status of operations to allow for immediate response to service  disruptions.  • Documents and verifies operations procedures and metrics.  • Tivoli Storage Manger client and server backup and recovery;  • Manage Tape libraries, physical or virtual  • Perform basic backup and recoveries;  • Troubleshoot basic operating system and network related issues;  • Handling Incident, Problem, and change control records;  • Proactively troubleshoot, identify, and resolve issues in the environment;  • UNIX, Novel, AIX and Windows operating systems  • NAS NDMP backup and recovery process  • Tivoli Storage Manager, Tivoli Data Protection software. Network/System Administrator Roanoke Group Inc - Schaumburg, IL November 2012 to February 2013 • Maintaining the Infrastructure on Windows 2003 and Windows 2008 R2  • Monitoring Networks using Solar Winds Orion  • Updating /upgrading software applications, Server patches, etc.  • Monitoring/maintaining company mailbox (MS Exchange)  • User Management through Active Directory, Exchange Management Console  • Performing health check of the systems  • Maintaining Clusters, Network Load Balancers, IIS Servers, Backup Servers.  • Scheduling/Monitoring Backups  • Monitoring/maintaining Web Security and Email Security  • Updating and maintaining all IT documentations.  • Scanning networks for vulnerabilities with GFI Languard. Education Bachelor of Science in Network Computation and Security in Network Computation and Security Roosevelt University April 2011