Solutions Engineer Solutions Engineer Cyber Security Analyst Camp Hill, PA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Solutions Engineer Deloitte - Mechanicsburg, PA April 2018 to Present ? Utilize Archer to create and design applications  ? Utilize Archer to provision user accounts  ? Perform upgrade and server maintenance  ? Provide technical support to the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania  ? Assist with Archer and 3rd Party IT Service Management Integration Cyber Security Analyst Leidos - Washington, DC January 2018 to April 2018 ? Perform E-Mail and malware analysis utilizing FireEye  ? Utilize Arcsight and Splunk to monitor and extract log files  ? Utilize RSA Netwitness to perform threat detection and extract PCAP  ? Utilize Snort and Wireshark to perform packet capturing and analysis  ? Utilize ECOP to perform Cyber Security Investigations for the Department of Homeland Security Systems Analyst Accenture Federal Services - Mechanicsburg, PA November 2015 to October 2017 ? Utilize SAP Access Enforcer (AE) to assess risk and accept or reject request to prevent control violations  ? Utilize SAP to support ticket processing and role evaluation  ? Utilize HEAT to diagnose tickets  ? Perform database management utilizing HP Quality Center  ? Extract and upload sensitive data utilizing SAP GUI to Microsoft SharePoint IT Intern Rockland Manufacturing - Bedford, PA May 2015 to August 2015 ?Performed a security audit  ? Researched and presented on SharePoint, Freshdesk, and Spiceworks  ? Utilized Microsoft SharePoint to build a website Computer Technician Penn State Altoona - Altoona, PA October 2014 to May 2015 ?Configured routers to ensure internet is working properly  ? Reimaged machines to remove any security threats  ? Performed Ethernet configuration with hardware and software  ? Helped students, faculty, and staff troubleshoot hardware and software issues    PERSONAL  Department of Defense - Secret Clearance, Active April 2016 - Present Education Bachelor's in Security and Risk Analysis Penn State - Altoona, PA August 2010 to August 2015 Skills SAP (2 years), Snort (1 year), Java (Less than 1 year), Wireshark (1 year), SQL (Less than 1 year), Linux (2 years), Vmware (2 years), Nessus (Less than 1 year), Apache (1 year), HTML (2 years), Sharepoint (Less than 1 year), Office Applications (5 years), RSA Archer (1 year), Fireeye (1 year), Splunk (1 year), Archer (1 year) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/kory-rogers-29a3b0b1/ Certifications/Licenses Secret Security Clearance August 2015