Customer Service/Cashier/ IT Analyst Customer Service/Cashier/<span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Customer Service/Cashier/ IT Analyst - Beauty and More Westbury, NY Work Experience Customer Service/Cashier/ IT Analyst Beauty and More - New Suffolk, NY July 2017 to Present Attending to customer's needs (questions on products we carry and the best way to use them for effective result.    worked with product distributors in getting valid information in products they offer.    Maintaining positive business relationships to ensure future sales.    Educate customers on the various product we carry and give advice on what fit their needs.  Introduce inventory control platform to the store to help properly control inventory in the store.  Expedite the resolution of customer problems and complaints to maximize satisfaction.    educate entire staff on data preservation and protection, email phishing and new online threats.    determine the best IT solution to help improve business at beauty and more (researched on the best POS system that can manage inventory effectively and explained to my team how to save and retrieve information from the cloud)    in charge of electrical maintenance from connecting different product display to a single switch to diagnosing electrical problem and finding solutions. Customer Service Lucky Beauty Supply - Baldwin, NY March 2016 to June 2017 working at Lucky Beauty Supply, helped build in me an Excellent selling, communication and negotiation skills.  During my time at Lucky's Beauty Supply I made sure I maintained positive business relationship with customers to ensure future sales.  I made sure I acquire enough knowledge on the products we carry, and this has helped me in promoting and selling products  I supply management with reports on customer needs, problems, interests, competitive activities, and potential for new products. cyber security analyst ICT Solutions Limited - Lagos, NG July 2013 to March 2016 *Designing product for financial institutions to help prevent and minimize email phishing  *Design Products for customers of Financial Institutions to help reduce fraudulent transactions in customers account.  *Explain in details Email Phishing and prevention to employees of Financial Institutions  * Layering of communication cables (optic-fiber, UTP, STP), power cables and termination services.  * Configuration of network devices (switches, routers and Firewalls).  *Material Handling for Microwave Equipment.  * procuring of site equipment and maintenance Maintenance Technician (Intern) Nigeria Bottling Company - Lagos, NG March 2010 to August 2010 * Planning and undertaking scheduled and unscheduled maintenance    * Diagnosing faults, repairing equipment and responding to breakdowns promptly.  Obtaining specialist components, fixtures or fittings    PROJECTS  Pickmeupnaija (Founder)  PickmeupNaija is an online directory listing most Cab Drivers, Movers & Car Pooling agents in Nigeria. It is developed to make movement in Nigeria easy and safe. Hassle free movement for Nigerians by Nigerians.    Member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria  Email Phishing and Prevention  https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/preventing-email-phishing-david-opiughie  https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/protecting-job-seekers-from-hackers-david-opiughie Education Bachelor of Science in Industrial Physics Covenant University September 2007 to June 2013 Skills MICROWAVE (4 years), NETWORK MONITORING (4 years), SECURITY (2 years), CUSTOMER SERVICE (1 year), RECEPTIONIST (1 year) Additional Information PROFESSIONAL SKILLS  • Excellent Customer Service skills • Microsoft Office proficiency  • Excellent Customer Support Management • Active Directory  • Ethernet, SDH and PDH Microwave transport networks • Cloud Computing  • IP Networking (CCNA, ACMA) NMS Server Administration (Transmission)  • Html, CSS  • IT Security  • Understand Network Monitoring Systems    • Data Entry  • Financial Accounting  • Cost Accounting