IT Compliance Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> Compliance <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Information Security Analyst - Covisint Detroit, MI Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Compliance Analyst OpenText - Southfield, MI Present I work the the compliance team to ensure that Opentext is able to meet the audit standards and requirements. Working with different audit groups, I engage with evidence owners to acquire evidence items. I then check the evidence items to enaure it meets the control requirements.    My previous employer Covisint was bought by Opentext and one of my responsibilities was to transition the scanning process from the Covisint model over the the scanning model for Opentext. Information Security Analyst Covisint - Southfield, MI May 2016 to July 2017 Worked with Web Inspect to scan web applications for vulnerabilities and reported findings to the required parties at Covisint. Assisted in updating company policy concerning an array of security practices and policies. Implemented a security awareness program for current and new employees at Covisint. Assisted in gathering evidence and policy for an external audit of the company. Helpdesk Computer Technician University of Detroit Mercy - Detroit, MI September 2013 to May 2016 Helped faculty and students with software and hardware computer issues, including installation of software and re-imaging hard drives. Test installed software to ensure function. Response promptly to help desk tickets to include virus removal. Desktop Support Team Quicken Loans - Detroit, MI May 2015 to August 2015 Provided technical support to the Quicken Loans family of companies with hardware and software computer issues. This included replacing/upgrading hardware and software. Respond to help desk tickets and troubleshooting technical issues. Resolve technical issues and/or coordinate repair with level 2 technician. Mass installation and deployment of computers in new office space which included network connection and testing. Education Masters of Science in Information Assurance Five Year Program University of Detroit Mercy May 2017 Hamilton Community High School - Hamilton, MI June 2012 Skills Eclipse (Less than 1 year), help desk (2 years), Human factors (Less than 1 year), Security (1 year), Software testing (Less than 1 year) Additional Information SKILLS    • Access Review  • Works well in teams  • Proof of Concept  • Trouble shooting computers  • Re-image computers  • Software assurance  • Software testing  • Human factors in IT security  • Eclipse  • Creating helpdesk tickets  • Hard Drive removal