Analyst, IT Security Infrastructure Services <span class="hl">Analyst</span>, <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> Infrastructure Services Analyst, IT Security Infrastructure Services - CAPGEMINI CORPORATION Austin, TX Work Experience Analyst, IT Security Infrastructure Services CAPGEMINI CORPORATION - Austin, TX April 2014 to Present • Security Incident Handling - Collaborate with the head of Major Security Incident Management, Chief Information Security Officers, and subject matter experts to detect, analyze, contain, eradicate, and recover from malicious attacks against our network of over 9,000 servers resulting in complete recovery of the enterprise network.  • Perform security assessments (audits) for physical and logical security processes and procedures and deliver results to upper level management, TxDIR, and 32 state of Texas affiliated agencies. Used 27001, HIPAA, and NIST 800-53 and best practice control frameworks. This resulted in a savings of hundreds of thousands in penalties.  • Serve as head administrator of our physical access application, tracking training achievements, background clearances, and performing logical on-boarding and off-boarding of 5 to 25 people weekly.  • Assisted in orchestrating and lead the Bash Shell Shock patching initiative for over 1600 affected Linux, Unix, and Novell servers affecting TxDIR and 32 state agencies. This resulted in improved integrity of all vulnerable servers.  • Write Technical and Functional Specifications for upgrades to our physical access tracking application.  • Ensure that all security training is properly administrated and properly followed by all trainees.  • Orchestrated and lead the initiative to clean up over 400 non-compliant service accounts for all service providers and state agencies as  a result of a 2-year gap in processes. This greatly reduced the risk of system account misuse.  • Create and revise 15 enterprise best practice framework documents annually for the State of Texas Department of Information  Resources (TxDIR), 32 state agencies, and Xerox which results in establishing policy for all contract employees.  • Present new processes and procedures to TxDIR and state agency Chief Information Security Officers and other executive officers  from Xerox and Capgemini (Service Providers), TxDIR, and state agencies on a weekly and monthly basis.  • Generate and prepare 2 weekly reports and 4 monthly reports to be posted to our SharePoint site for TxDIR, state agency, and partner  review. Consultant, Production Revenue Accounting CAPGEMINI CONSULTING - Dallas, TX March 2013 to January 2014 Consultant, Production Revenue Accounting module of the SAP IS-OIL Upstream Solution & ABAP   • Graduate of Strategic System & Products Corporation's Consultant Professional Development Program  SAMSON RESOURCES  • Provided on-site support for Samson Resources' SAP Production Revenue Accounting (PRA) configuration by testing Colorado state  severance & withholding tax functionality  • Collaborated with Senior Management to translate client requests to completed data mappings. Used these data mappings to devise  potential program logic and pseudo-code. Finally, used collected information to create data conversion programs. Programs created:  Joint Audit Data Exchange (JADE Audit) report program, JP Morgan specific ACH reporting programs, well volume and business  associate batch data conversion programs. Created custom queries and SAP List Viewer (ALV) interfaces for division order,  production volume, and taxation reports. Made changes to existing programs such as the production revenue contract maintenance  batch data loader.  • Supported the implementation team in the testing of all SAP PRA process areas. Tasked specifically with testing payment processing and combined run report functionality to insure end-user requirements and to validate SAP service packages.  QEP RESOURCES INC.  • Assisted the implementation team in finalizing all end-user documentation for SAP FI/CO business process areas, in order for documentation to be signed off by the project manager and technical lead.  • Provided off-site technical support through delivery of ABAP programs and business process module testing to senior level  management through the creation of financial check write programs. Business Analyst Intern, Thermoplastic Division GRAND PETROCHEMICAL CO. LTD - NINGBO, CN July 2012 to October 2012 • Researched petroleum and petroleum derivatives industries to assist and direct upper level management in making decisions concerning its partnership with North and South American companies.    • Advised management weekly on potential partnership opportunities through reports containing business specific metrics such as size,  profit, SWOT analysis, core competencies, major network relations, and competitive advantages in order to expand company presence into the rapidly growing US petroleum derivatives market.    • Designed and created reports to more effectively analyze potential customer data to advise company in strategic decisions on US  Expansion. Report combined customer country entry requirements, optimal establishment locations, cultural awareness specifics, and an over-all synopsis of the best companies to partner with. Education Bachelor of Science in Business Administration UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON - Seattle, WA May 2012 NATIONAL CHENG CHI UNIVERSITY - ??? 2011 Skills • Additional Languages: Mandarin Chinese - Conversationally Fluent, Intermediate Reading and Writing. Spanish - Bilingual Spoken.   • Volunteer Experience: Active fundraiser for progressive animal welfare society through Sigma Phi Epsilon’s annual Anchor Splash competition and go-kart competition (SPE Kart). Participation in the Sigma Phi Epsilon Balanced Man Program. Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS  • Advanced Skills: Microsoft Excel (Macros, Visual Basic), Visio, SharePoint, PowerPoint  • Proficient Skills: SAP ABAP, Production Revenue Accounting module of the SAP IS-OIL Upstream Solution, SAP R/3 FI/CO, Microsoft Expression (Web Design), BMC ITSM Remedy, RSA Archer Advanced Administration, RSA Archer Policy and Compliance Management, and RSA Archer Vulnerability Risk Management