Legal Operations Associate Legal Operations Associate East Brunswick, NJ Reliable, energetic and dedicated. A consistent high performer, recognize the need for producing top quality results and influencing target audiences. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Legal Operations Associate JPMorgan Chase - Jersey City, NJ June 2017 to Present • Manage migration of JPMC Legal Team into document retention system.    • Develop new permission structures for business needs, maintaining document security and integrity.    • Create requirements for analysis reports to proactively manage Legal documentation and drive adoption through the Practice Groups.    • Coordinate with Testing Team to ensure enhancements are properly delivered by Legal Technology.    • Manage projects related to iManage, including system enhancements, and advantage of document management functions. Security Incident Response Team – Information Security Investigations T&M Protection Resources - Jersey City, NJ January 2016 to Present Main responsibility is to respond to internal and external requests for electronically stored information that resides on client systems and networks.    • Technical consulting and managing expectations of counsel and litigators  • Document collection and email retention for custodians in support of legal and compliance investigations  • Relationship building with several departments and third-party vendors  • Resource management, metrics and statistics compilation for reporting to administration and counsel Technical Analyst T&M Protection Resources - New York, NY September 2015 to Present Main responsibility is to provide services to T&M's client base and ensuring all the services provided meets or exceeds client expectations. Support data collection and data analysis within the Data Forensics and Information Security Section, assist with the preparation of technical reports.  September 2015 - January 2016:  ? Acquire Forensic images of laptops, hard drives and mobile devices for investigation purposes  ? Managed Chain of Custody and acquisition documentation  ? Develop comprehensive and inclusive documentation for reporting purposes  ? Created various SOP documents and User Guides for forensic software and tools Information Technology Support Specialist Township of East Brunswick - East Brunswick, NJ May 2015 to Present Managed technology infrastructure build-out of an existing network and computer    • Monitor backup systems and procedures to ensure data security.  • Support PC hardware components, desktop operating system software, and application software.  • Monitor antivirus software and updates and repair computers infected with spyware, adware and/or viruses.  • Provide backup technical support for network including router, firewall, and wireless access point.  • Contributed to the development of the townships technical documentation and participate in policy, procedure, and standards development. IT Analyst Shamy, Shipers & Lonski, P.C - New Brunswick, NJ May 2014 to August 2014 Responsible for all hardware and software upgrade projects and deployments.  • Implemented the conversion of paper files to electronic format files.  • Managed all network related projects including moves, additions and changes.  • Technology and employee relocations, technology procurement, hardware/software upgrades, installs and deployments.  • Index major cases Head Coach East Brunswick, NJ June 2013 to July 2014 Organized and Motivated boys aged 14 - 15.  • Ran practices; implemented different drills to simulate possible game situations.  • Addressed questions that players or parents possibly had.  • Persevered through difficult situations; during tournaments or with parents.    Volunteer Education Master's in Cybersecurity Marymount Univers January 2017 to August 2018 Bachelor of Science in Information Technology Specialty Marymount University - Arlington, VA 2011 to 2015 Additional Information Technology Skills:  • Proficient in Tableau TD1/TD2/T35e/T8, FTK Imager, Caine, Raptor, EnCase, X-Ways, NEMX, Cellebrite UFED Physical, Cellebrite Physical Anaylzer, Paraben Device Seizure, Access Data Mobile Phone Examiner, MS Office, HTML, XML, CSS, Javascript, Java, DBAN, Hiren's, Acronis True Image, ESET, Shavlikprotect, WinHex, HexEdit, Splunk, EMC SourceOne Discovery Manager,   • Knowledge in Software Engineering, Computer Networking, Database Technology, Computer Technology, Corporate Cybersecurity, Software Testing and Quality Assurance, Computer Forensics, Decision Analysis, KYC