Security Analyst <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Security Analyst Normal, IL Motivated IT professional with experience as both an IT Support Analyst and Security Analyst. Comes with working knowledge of  SQL, ServiceNow, Remedy, Exchange Admin Console, Cisco Unity, SharePoint and technical knowledge of MS Azure, Salesforce,  Teamcenter, and Matlab. Proven ability to problem solve and troubleshoot issues, as well as quickly learn new software and tools.  Known for his dedication and desire to continuously enhance his skill set. Not afraid to dive right in and get to work in new or  unfamiliar areas. Organized and optimizes time-management skills to follow-through and complete tasks on time. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Security Analyst Country Financial - Bloomington, IL April 2018 to August 2018 Access Provisioning Analyst for Country Financial, Illinois Farm Bureau, and the Trust Bank  ? Provision access to corporate used applications and services, following necessary protocol and procedures  ? Work in a team environment to process all provisioning requests in a timely manner IT Support Analyst Advanced Technology Services - Peoria, IL November 2017 to March 2018 Working in a diverse team environment to diagnose application faults  ? Applying theoretical troubleshooting knowledge to create practical results  ? Provide application support for Caterpillar Inc. Technical Assistant at Car and Driver Hearst Magazines - Ann Arbor, MI July 2017 to November 2017 Performed instrument testing and data acquisition to collect test results used in the website as well as published magazine  ? Facilitated Car and Driver's 10Best event in addition to several other major events  ? Edited content published in Car and Driver's website to ensure technical accuracy Fleet Coordinator Road & Track, Hearst Magazines - Ann Arbor, MI February 2016 to July 2017 Research vehicle specifications for input into Road & Track magazine utilizing Adobe in Copy software  ? Conduct instrument tests with specialized VBOX equipment to measure raw data through precise procedures and overlaying  additional variables to capture accurate results  ? Responsible for coordinating cost-effective logistics for press events, road tests and vehicle comparisons as well as shipping  logistics, security and safe-handling of press fleets valued upwards of $500,000  ? Develop and maintain strong connections with automotive manufacturers and leading public relations representatives in the auto industry  ? Schedule hotel and travel accommodations and create detailed itineraries for up to 20 employees and freelance agents for events across the U.S.  ? MacOS and Windows OS support for local office employees Editorial Assistant Road & Track, Hearst Magazines - Ann Arbor, MI November 2015 to February 2016 Assisted editorial staff in researching data, and proofreading content for publication  ? Managed a cloud-based database overviewing data entry input and technical accuracy  ? Maintained editorial press fleet, logging scheduled vehicle arrival and departure dates.  ? Provided administrative support to the Editor-in-Chief and performed a variety of clerical and departmental tasks related to the daily operations Education Bachelor of Science in Management Information Systems University of Illinois - Springfield, IL May 2019 Associate in Arts in General Studies Heartland Community College - Normal, IL December 2016 Skills MAC (1 year), MACOS (1 year), AUTO CAD (Less than 1 year), AUTODESK (Less than 1 year), BMC (Less than 1 year) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  ? Proficient in Microsoft Office applications (Word, Excel, Outlook, PowerPoint, Teams, Visio) IBM Lotus Notes, BMC  Remedy  ? Working knowledge of Autodesk CAD, SQL, Java, HTML, SAP GUI, Citrix, IBM Mainframe, Exchange Admin  console, Cisco Unity, ServiceNow, MS Project, OneDrive, OneNote, Oracle Siebel, CyberARK  ? Technical knowledge of Siemens Teamcenter, MATLAB, MS Azure, Salesforce CRM  ? Problem-solving abilities of systems (Windows 7, 8, 10, MacOS, iOS)  ? Excellent proofreading and editing skills