Homeland Security Program Analyst Homeland <span class="hl">Security</span> Program <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Homeland Security Program Analyst - Office of Counter Terrorism Perth Amboy, NJ Work Experience Homeland Security Program Analyst Office of Counter Terrorism - New York, NY June 2018 to Present New York, NY  Homeland Security Program Analyst 1 • Part of the Critical Infrastructure Unit and worked along side the Cyber Support Element (CSE).  • Partnered with the newly evolved Cyber Incident Response Team (CIRT) in specified vulnerability discovery and reporting for network intrusions.  • Identified and articulated risks and remediation in a relevant and approachable manner with both technical and non-technical audiences.  • Provided analytical support for high profile an/or cross-cutting programs, projects and initiatives.  • Evaluated the impact of federal and state legislative programs, mandates and processes on the resources and operations of the agency.  • Identified New York State's most critical assets and monitored terrorism threats facing each of the 16  Critical Infrastructure Sectors.  • Produced intelligence reports and briefings that provide situational awareness of threats impacting the state of New York.  • Conducted comprehensive analysis of terrorist tactics on homeland security and public security trends at the state, federal and international levels.  • Supported State emergency response activities and provided critical information on the State's infrastructure and key resources to inform decision-maker during an incident. Intelligence Operation Specialist Forfeiture Support Associates, LLC - New York, NY March 2018 to May 2018 • Assigned as the lead analyst for the PMN Tiger Team.  • Served as a liaison for Dark Web cases and supporting Customs Border Patrol at JFK International airport.  • Developed leads and mitigation strategies for investigative purposes, by examining records, documents and other recorded material of individuals or suspects related to potential Dark Web investigations.  • Facilitated and developed standardized training program to federal personnel nationwide.  • Identified problems that directly affect the accomplishment of the intelligence operation goals and objectives while recommending alternatives and corrective actions.  • Managed daily operations regarding all information and intelligence including recording, reporting, and analysis.  • Collaborated on weekly basis with the development team on information technology software projects or program issues of major significance and impact.  • Consolidated, analyzed, and evaluated intelligence reports and/or information from intelligence analysts.  • Maintained quality service by establishing and enforcing organization standards; Conducted risk assessments on business and operational standard of procedures. Intelligence Analyst Forfeiture Support Associates, LLC - New York, NY April 2017 to February 2018 Utilized law enforcement, Postal Service, and open source intelligence or databases to validate mailing addresses to identify instances of noncompliance; Conduct triage of mail pieces for violations of law, and render items to Postal Inspectors criminal investigations and/or seizures.  • Analyzed criminal intelligence related to drugs/dangerous mail, conduct background checks and disseminate intelligence reports of a confidential and sensitive nature that will be used by executives and law enforcement agencies.  • Compiled and analyzed data into reports, spreadsheets, pivot tables, and a variety of documents for use in presentations.  • Reported investigation findings and trends to U.S Postal Service offices, local/state police departments across the nation to thwart narcotics and anti-money laundering operations.  • Interpreted data analytic problems into technical approaches in order to produce clear and accurate intelligence reports containing findings, conclusions, and recommendations to achieve maximum effectiveness and minimize threats.  • Detailed to head a federal law enforcement intelligence operation for the Narcotics & Economic Criminal  Investigation Task Force. Investigative Intern- Complex Investigations Section New Jersey Office of the Attorney General - Newark, NJ January 2017 to March 2017 Division of Consumer Affairs, Newark, N.J January 2017 - March 2017  Investigative Intern- Complex Investigations Section (Chief Investigator Laurie Goodman) • Performed regulatory audits and inspections of licensed premises under guidance of an Investigator.  • Attended briefings/meetings with Chief Investigators and supervisors to discuss cases or investigations to detect alleged noncompliance with or violations of New Jersey statutes, administrative codes, or  Professional Rules of Conduct or consumer protection laws.  • Followed up with consumers whom have been victims of fraud and prepare transcripts from recordings.  • Created and maintained MS Excel spreadsheets of consumer contacts and interview responses.  • Examined documents for authenticity and evidence of fraud or business IT Security & Compliance Analyst- IT Department World Business Lenders - Jersey City, NJ November 2016 to January 2017 • Assisted in planning, directing, and coordinating activities related to Information Security and IT Audits.  • Conducted IT Risk-based audits to identify areas of risk.  • Took a lead role in recommending improvements in the securing and monitoring of infrastructure.  • Contributed to development of security standards, access controls, and compliance requirements for software applications.  • Maintained and protected confidentiality with regard to all aspect of customer and employee information.  • Utilized software tools daily including MS Excel, Zen desk, Atlassian, and Active Directory. Substitute Teacher Cherry Hill, NJ March 2015 to October 2016 • Carried out lesson plans developed by teachers for all high school grades.  • Supervised and ensured the safety of students at all times.  • Demonstrated responsibility and control of the classroom, and reported any disciplinary incidents to the administration. Judicial Intern Probation Division - Trenton, NJ June 2016 to August 2016 • Conducted Internet research utilizing academic journals, news reports, and government documents to compare rates of probation and recidivism in New Jersey.  • Reviewed present practices and suggested best practices and measures for effective rehabilitation and reducing recidivism.  • Identified models on productive probation officer/client relationships. Desk Assistant/ Security Officer New Jersey City University - Jersey City, NJ October 2014 to May 2015 • Controlled access to dormitories on campus and prevented unauthorized entry.  • Provided customer service and help desk assistance.  • Reported any information or incidents to the supervisor.  • Operated and monitored CCTV surveillance system based on real-time detection and response. Surveillance Analyst Intern- Security Operation Center Visentry, LLC - Paramus, NJ January 2014 to May 2014 • Conducted trend/correlation analysis and scenario forecasting at both the tactical and strategic level.  • Assisted with preparing investigative reports in sufficient detail and accuracy to support possible prosecution and/or administrative action.  • Operated and monitored CCTV surveillance system based on real-time detection systems and incident response.  • Successfully investigated and resolved auto theft or vandalized property.  • Presented criminal investigative findings and reports both orally and in writing to executives. Education Master of Science in National Security in Information Assurance/Cyber Security New Jersey City University December 2016 Certificate in Felician College May 2014 Skills Data Entry, Microsoft Office, Management, Customer Service