Sr. IT Security Governance & Compliance Analyst Sr. <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> Governance &amp; Compliance <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Sr. IT Security Governance & Compliance Analyst - Trustmark Companies Chicago, IL Work Experience Sr. IT Security Governance & Compliance Analyst Trustmark Companies - Lake Forest, IL 2017 to Present Lake Forest, Illinois (2017-Current)  Employee Benefits that help people increase well-being through better health and greater financial security.  Sr. IT Security Governance & Compliance Analyst: Perform highly complex information technology compliance work. Provide guidance, expertise, and internal consultancy in Information Technology compliance through effective and efficient application of the regulatory requirements.  • Developed SharePoint Information Security Site to: track audits, create mega matrix, create centralized repository of all policies, process, and procedures, identify gaps in compliance, track remediation efforts  • Created and maintained over 30 unique Key Performance Indicators  • Created policies, process, procedures, functional standards, and technical standards to increase NIST Maturity framework by 150% in a span of 1 year  • Managed Internal audits, external audits, and risk assessments for NIST, HIPPA, HITRUST CSF, and NYDFS, assessments and audits were completed within the allotted time and budget.  • One of the leads on the HTMA (How to Measure anything) to create a risk tolerance curve and create a remediation plan for the enterprise. Associate Data Security and GRC (Governance Risk and Compliance) Specialist EPI-USE - Atlanta, GA 2015 to 2017 Atlanta, Georgia (2015-2017)  EPI-USE is the world's largest and most experienced independent SAP® HCM (Human Capital Management).  Associate Data Security and GRC (Governance Risk and Compliance) Specialist: Developed framework and managed the implementation of multiple SAP modules. Advised on improved data security practices.  • Identified and delivered solutions to optimize Fortune 500 company security workflows resulting in a secure hiring process and a reduction in workflow time of 120 man hours per week."  • Identified and documented key process flaws to develop proposal for streamlining client efficiency,  • Co-authored two white papers on an emerging technology, block chain, developing new business assets  • Have designed and implemented several security related projects that lead to reduction of SOD (Segregation of Duties) risks by a minimum of 95%. Information Security Intern University of Denver - Denver, CO 2011 to 2013 Denver, Colorado (2011-2013)  University of Denver is a prestigious and highly accredited academic institution.  Information Security Intern: Troubleshooting network issues relating from network updates/patches, and implementing new procedures and generating ideas.  • Assisted in assessment threat and key vulnerability points, this assessment lead to the purchase realization that a breach of 100,000 files could cost 15 million, resulting in the purchase of an in-line firewall that increased security by 70%  • Assisted in the PCI(Payment Card Industry) evaluation of the university of Denver Education Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering University of Denver - Denver, CO Skills SECURITY (6 years), GOVERNANCE (3 years), SAP (2 years), HIPPA (1 year), NIST (1 year) Additional Information Areas of Expertise    SOX compliance Python VBA Java Governance Risk and Compliance SAP Security Security Redesign Business Process Implementation Network Architecture Strategic Problem Resolution Access Management Critical Decision Making NIST CSF HIPPA Compliance HITRUST CSF I NYDFS