Information Security / IT Control Information <span class="hl">Security</span> / <span class="hl">IT</span> Control Palo Alto, CA A dynamic Information Technology and Cyber Security Specialist with over 4 years' experience in designing, presenting and implementing Network, Cyber Security, software testing and digital strategies in banking and financial operations. Offers a proven track record of success in managing large and small teams in security, technology, and business functions; securing data, and other corporate assets. Provides strategic vision for operational security while guiding daily operations and policy implementation. Has a passion and talent for aligning security architecture, plans, controls, processes, policies and procedures with security standards and operational goals. Able to identify, research, analyse, and resolve issues related to risk mitigation and project success. Work Experience Information Security / IT Control Coronation Merchant Bank February 2019 to Present February 2019 - Present  • Proactively monitors the performance of network, system and application security solutions to identify, bring to attention and resolve potential intrusion incidents.  • Accurately assesses information risks and facilitates remediation of identified vulnerabilities within the Bank's network, systems and applications.  • Efficiently administers access privileges to new users and modifies privileges for existing users to facilitate timely and appropriate access to business-related systems.  • Effectively investigates security breaches within a defined area of responsibility to maintain compliance with internal security policies.  • Performs adequate assessments of the IT security/risk posture of the IT network, systems and software applications, while also providing support assessments conducted by external Vendors.  • Identifies opportunities to reduce risk and document remediation options regarding acceptance or mitigation of risk scenarios.  • Provides weekly project status reports and work task updates, including outstanding issues to line manager.  • Provides assistance to all IT audits, IT risk assessments and regulatory compliance,  • Conducts security research in keeping abreast of latest security issues,  • Creates, manages and administers Information security awareness and trainings for the organization.  ISMS Monitoring and Incident Management ISMS / Cyber Incident Monitoring GUARANTY TRUST BANK - Lagos February 2018 to February 2019 February 2018 - February 2019  • Continuously monitored and analysed security events and provided first and final escalation.  • Skilled in the use of next-generation firewall (NGFW), Intrusion Prevention System (IPS) and SIEM management tools in maintaining and improving the organization defensive controls.  • Proactively identified, prevented and responded to security incidents that could impact the company's network.  • Effectively managed security incidents from identification through to remediation.  • Worked with the ASOC and IR teams during compromise assessments and as part of IR escalation.  • Collaborated with technical security assessment (intrusion testing) and cyber threat intelligence teams to validate security events and perform advanced analysis.  • Carried out documentation of processes and procedures.  • Performed tasks related to security incident response, such as monitoring and discovery.  • Effectively monitored the organization's networks for security breaches and investigated violations when they occurred. IT Analyst FBN MERCHANT BANK - Ikoyi, Lagos State January 2017 to February 2018 • Provided technical support to business users both remotely and on-site.  • Administered installations and configuration of new systems, telephones and promptly installed updates where applicable.  • Supported VMware clusters, Site Recovery Manager.  • Supported the following;  ? Email Systems (Exchange), Windows 2008 Server Systems, VM Ware, Hyper V, Active Directory Account Administration, Mobile phone systems (BES) and Desktop support - Windows 7, 8 and 10.  • Effectively troubleshot IT equipment within the organization - printers, scanners.  • Logged all IT incidents and service requests and ensured timely resolution.  • Performed routine manual/automatic backups and archival of files stored on the network to assist with disaster recovery  • Assisted with data recovery, using tape backup or recovery tools.  • Provided support during software testing of new releases and proactively escalating issues.  • Partook in project work from inception to closure. IT Support KAKAWA DISCOUNT HOUSE (KDH) June 2013 to January 2014 • Proactively planned, assembled and installed computer systems in designated networks as per specifications.  • Installed and configured IT network components and assisted in the implementation of designed IT network configuration.  • Resolved hardware and software technical problems in the system elements after detailed analysis, including computer failures and software malfunctioning.  • Provided solutions and technical guidance to clients facing technical issues and difficulties.  • Maintained records of hardware issues, performance and supplies. Education Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science and Engineering Ladoke Akintola University of Technology 2009 to 2015 Skills INTRUSION (1 year), SECURITY (1 year), SOLUTIONS (1 year), FIREWALL (1 year), SIEM (1 year) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/daniel-fakowajo Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  • System Information and Event Management (SIEM)  MC AFEE SIEM, QRADAR, ALIENVAULT  • Next Generation Firewall: PALO ALTO, SOPHOS  • Network Access Control: CISCO ANYCONNECT, FORESCOUT, PORTKNOX  • Database Monitoring: IMPERVA DAM, MCAFEE DAM  • Firewall and Network Monitoring: ALGOSEC, DEVICE EXPERT, INCAPSULA, SOLAR WINDS, ALIEN VAULT  • Data Analysis: MICROSOFT EXCEL, ACL 9, ACL 10  • TRENDMICRO, SYMANTEC, MICROSOFT SUITE, Mc AFEE EPO SUITES ETC.    SKILLS AND COMPETENCIES  • Corporate Communications  • Needs Assessment  • Data Security  • Project Management  • Program Planning & Coordination  • Intrusion Detection    • Process Improvement  • Client Service Management  • Cyber Security  • Technology and Business Solutions  • Risk analysis and mitigation  • Security Analysis    • Information Security  • Executive Level Engagement  • Business Development  • Business Analysis  • Stakeholder, Account and Relationship Management  • Cloud Security