Credit Risk Management IT - Senior System Integrator / Systems Analyst Credit Risk Management <span class="hl">IT</span> - Senior System Integrator / Systems <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Credit Risk Management IT - Senior System Integrator - Capital One Financial Denver, CO To obtain a position that will utilize my skills and knowledge acquired from my college matriculation and my professional career in a progressive environment. Work Experience Credit Risk Management IT - Senior System Integrator / Systems Analyst Capital One Financial - McLean, VA July 2014 to Present Product Owner Duties    • Worked with the Counterparty Credit Risk business group and its platform owner to draft up requirements for all new functionality and modifications to existing functionality for a custom built counterparty risk application  • Drafted all use case diagrams, workflows, system requirements and functional business requirements.  • Provided functional and data analysis to the business stakeholders on existing functionality.  • Worked with the scrum master and platform manager to manage sprint planning  • Setup up all new stories within VersionOne and groomed these with the tech lead, development team and testing team to ensure a complete understanding throughout the team.  • Coordinated with the platform owner to prioritize the systems backlog.  • Directly influenced design decisions of the systems functionality to ensure it aligned with the business intent of our customer.  • Trained new users on the systems functionality.    System Integrator Duties    • Coordinated with DDE, DBA and source systems on new data feeds for feed design, DB requests and DDE requirements.  • Stood up test automation scripts with selenium for the application.  • Drove test automation strategy within the team  • Provided QA testing support and test case design- regression and individual stories/enhancements.  • Provided root cause analysis for bugs and issues within the production environment.  • Developed prototype of a SalesForce workflow component for our system. Senior Information Security Analyst Information Security - Richmond, VA August 2013 to August 2014 • Managed communications and relations between the Application Security team and the rest of the company.  • Served as the Archer reporting platform Subject Matter Expert (SME).  • Operated as the Veracode platform owner and managed the vendor relationship.  • Administrated the company Application Security training and education program.  • Ran the Veracode (SaaS) static scanning program for development teams.  • Developed new reporting capabilities utilizing Archer and Excel to provide deep analysis of the threat landscape.  • Managed requirements gathering for all new enhancements of the Archer module.  • Maintained data sync processes between Archer and upstream/downstream systems. Business Systems Analyst - Capital Markets IT Capital One July 2012 to September 2013 • Served as liaison between clients and developers to transform clients' requests into business plans and technical requirements.  • Served as a Subject Matter Expert (SME) on projects that impacted PolyPaths, a fixed income analytic platform.  • Developed new calculations, reports, and data transformations within the PolyPaths environment.  • Executed ETL transformations for QRM platform.  • Managed the User Acceptance Testing (UAT) for all patches and enhancements  • Performed extensive Quality Assurance (QA) tests on version releases to ensure there are no critical issues with the software.  • Designed the system to automate the calculation and output Value at Risk (VaR) & Stressed Value at Risk (SVaR) on a daily basis. This reduced the business customers work from 3 hours to less than 30 minutes.  • Performed data analysis on new version releases to ensure the business processes were not adversely impacted.  • Preparing the End User Communications and relaying them to the users for upcoming changes to PolyPaths.  • Drove the development of the application framework and application roadmap.  • Consulted on Basel II based projects that impact or utilize the Polypaths platform.  • Assisted in the delivery of an expansion to the PolyPaths server farm, which increased the server cores from 50 to 220. Data Analyst Intern June 2011 to August 2011 • Develop and execute SQL scripts to test new data structures within Teradata.  • Completed impact analysis on a data warehouse for incoming projects.  • Drove design from requirements through the physical data model.  • Answered questions about existing data structures in the data warehouse.  • Preparing the End User Communications and relaying them to the users for upcoming changes to the Data Warehouse. Education Bachelor of Business Administration in Financial Analysis James Madison University, College of Business - Harrisonburg, VA May 2012 Skills Office Suite (10+ years), Systems Integration (5 years), Data Analysis, Testing, Product Management, Project Management, Agile, Agile Development, QA, Team Building, Technology, Technical Writing, Technical Skills Additional Information SKILLS & INTERESTS/ACTIVITIES    Vendor Products: PolyPaths, RSA Archer, Teradata, Bloomberg Terminal, Veracode, VersionOne    Operating Systems: Windows, OSX, Linux