Security Analyst II <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> II Strengthen, monitor, and support an organizations information security posture Houston, TX IT Security Operations Analyst with a passion and savvy for aligning security architecture, plans, controls, processes, policies  and procedures with security standards and operational goals.  Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) with experience in Identity and Access Management,  Security Operations, Software Development Security, Security Governance, Compliance and Policy issues, Risk  Management and Mitigation, Asset Security, and Security Assessment and Testing.  Change Agent that excels in producing tailored solutions to improve or implement new business processes.    Defining Moments  • Detected and eliminated gaps in the termination and transfer processes that lead to mitigating risk in organizational governance  regarding NERC and SOX compliance by incorporating technology and process changes when processing user terminations and  transfers.  • Explored various different security software tools, while incorporating SDLC Principles to mitigate the risk of the security team  breaking audit controls and avoid SOX and NERC violations. Established multiple use cases to test and validate the tools effectiveness  versus current tools in place; While collaborating with stakeholders from other departments; Introduced and spearheaded the  implementation of a new SIEM tool that provided nonrepudiation in security control changes, strengthening the integrity of processing  all security related requests.  • Lead onsite team of internal IT, Commercial operations, HR, and Business Services members in order to ensure a smooth transition  of plants to Dynegy as part of a larger acquisition effort. Supervised a team of contractors to ensure delivery was excellent. Resulting in  a seamless transition with no disruption to plant operations, no disruptions to commercial availability, no compliance issues, no  plant safety violations, and no audit failures. All IT, HR, and other issues were managed and mitigated immediately. Shortening the  integration timeline to days from the planned weeks. Reducing expected costs by more than 40%.  • Managed a core team responsible for Windows 7 deployment. Navigated the imaging, deployment, triage, recovering and tracking for  over 500 laptops daily at the fulfillment of the client's contract, amounting to over $250K in company assets. Provided concise  reconciliation reports from inventory and damage laptop/PC data.  • Created and administered client surveys to determine the effectiveness of ADP's software as the liaison between clients and developers.  Hosted client-side user training meetings in order to provide valuable feedback to the R&D, and implementation teams in the weekly  Scrum install meetings.  • Revamped asset management for the organization by designing and coordinating a new process that would help track and recover  and manage inventory for assets company wide. This lead to the recovery of over 175 misplaced/stolen or unaccounted for assets. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Security Analyst II DYNEGY - Houston, TX February 2016 to Present Responsible for the Security Operations of enterprise users/computers/groups using various tools (ADUC, ADAC,  ADSS, O365 Admin Center, Group Policy Management, Hyena, AD Toolkit, ACL, Waveset Lighthouse).  • Serves as RA for various Certificate Authorities (Thawte, DigiCert, OATI, PJM) and ISO's (ERCOT, MISO) to manage sever and individual digital certificates and user portal accounts.  • Serves as a Security Administrator for various enterprise applications (Endur, PeopleSoft, Right Angle, Maximo,  LodeStar, iAvenue, ADAuditPlus, CES Blue, Integrity, Pay Connexion, LiveLink, FIS,).  • Serves as Change Control Administrator responsible for conducting change control meetings for all enterprise  production changes to servers or applications. Maintained updates to the Change Control SharePoint entries,  approvals and workflows.  • Assessed critical business apps for security risks and compliance (SOX)  • Controls the physical Data Center security  • Serves as an Office 365 Exchange Admin; able to create/remove/manage mail accounts, IM, and access to mailboxes.  • Mobile Device Management using Airwatch Admin Console, ClearPass Policy Manager and 0365 Admin Center to manage network access to all types of wireless mobile assets.  • Generates Weekly/Monthly/Quarterly/Semi-Annual report data to internal and external auditors for compliance measures and, annual SOX audits. Updates controls as needed.  • Domain Administrator on all Physical and VLAN Servers enterprise-wide.    Service Desk Tech  • Provided first level support for onsite and remote users to all enterprise systems and applications via walk up, call in, or ticket submissions.  • Utilized the Footprints ticketing and tracking system for creating records pertaining to customer reports of incidents and service requests.  • Pushed Enterprise Software Suites and Security Patches enterprise-wide via LANDesk management console. System Administrator NRG - Houston, TX August 2015 to February 2016 Leveraged the ticketing and tracking system (OTRS and ServiceNow) for creating records pertaining to customer  reports of incidents and service requests; including the gathering of pertinent technical information required for advanced troubleshooting, and resolution.  • Controlled DRA and Active Directory to provision and manage user accounts, security groups and distribution list.  Governed access to ACLs following SOX and organizational security policy controls.  • Established and managed SFTP user and vendor accounts, granting access to internal and external servers  using SSH Tectia and RDP.  • Provided support for exchange server mail accounts for enterprise end users  • Provided support for Citrix access and XenApp.  • Served as SAP Security Administrator for various modules in Corporate SAP, (SAP ESS, SAP PRR, SAP CRM,  SAP UDP)  • Pushed Software Suites and Upgrades to all organizations assets via Altiris Client Management suite  • Provided remote support for enterprise end users using various remote tools. IT Asset Specialist Universal American Corp - Houston, TX October 2014 to August 2015 Centralized Asset Management operations, processes and systems that provide benefits in efficiency and effectiveness for the organization.  • Designed SharePoint site to supervise and manage assets enterprise wide (laptops, Desktops, iPad, iPhone, BlackBerry)  • Insured organizational asset recovery: Upon termination of employee, enforced recovery protocols to be certain all  organizational assets are recovered to protect company investment and data that may be breech of HIPPA compliance.  • Used Absolute Computrace on all encrypted equipment to secure data by freezing or wiping device and locate  equipment.  • Administered procurement for all technical assets for the organization: Quoting, Purchasing and Shipping all equipment to different departments companywide.    Helpdesk Tier II Admin.  • Provided information technology support to the business in terms of hardware, software and networking via escalations from Tier 1 support, walk-ins or ticket submissions.  • Provided support for exchange server mail accounts.  • Remote access support with remote access programs.  • Leveraged Serena and TeamTrack ticketing system create incident and service request to have records of troubleshooting and end user technical information.  • Escalated issues to proper support group to ensure that all systems and users are being supported at the appropriate level. Network Solution Analyst NetSync Network Solutions - Houston, TX April 2014 to October 2014 Lead of a core team in retrieving Laptops/PC's from client sites at fulfillment of contract.  • Headed Windows 7 deployment for large client orders with quantities over 1000 assets. Managed a team responsible for imaging, repairing and deploying over 500 laptops/PC's daily.  • Responsible for recovering and tracking inventory for over 500 laptops daily, amounting to over $250K in company  assets.  • Formulated concise reconciliation reports from inventory and damage laptop/PC data. Merchandising; Sales & Customer Service Activities Apple Inc - Houston, TX October 2013 to April 2014 Houston, TX  Genius (10/13 - 4/14)  • Provided insightful advice and friendly, hands-on technical support to Apple customers in need.  • Quickly assessed devices (iPhone, iPad, apple TV and MacBook's) issues on the spot. Simplified technical explanations to customers with patience and empathy.  • Quickly and safely disassemble and reassemble various mobile devices then leveraged Mobile Genius ticketing platform to enter triage information about damaged device and resolution summary.  • Assists in all aspects of the day to day operation of a Wireless Retail Store including but not limited to: Operating a Cash  Drawer; Store Opening/Closing Duties; Audit Readiness; Merchandising; Sales & Customer Service Activities. R&D Business Analyst ADP - Bedford, TX May 2012 to August 2012 Utilized VISION to Locate software missing required updated and send out specific client based software patches.  • Created and administered client surveys to determine effectiveness of client's software. Hosted client-side user training  meetings in order to provide valuable feedback to the R&D  • Participated in weekly Scum install meetings with R&D and Implementation team to provide input from clients to help with the continual improvement of the software programs. Education BS in Computer Science Prairie View, TX August 2004 to December 2012 Skills EXCHANGE (3 years), MICROSOFT SHAREPOINT (2 years), SHAREPOINT (4 years), SARBANES OXLEY (3 years), SARBANES-OXLEY (SOX) (2 years), Active Directory (4 years), Change Management (3 years), Risk Assessment (3 years), Vulnerability Assessment (3 years), Gap Analysis (3 years), Peoplesoft (2 years), Nessus (2 years), System Administration (3 years), Windows Server 2008 (3 years), Scrum (3 years), Maximo (2 years), Hipaa (3 years), Process Improvement (3 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/theosloly Certifications/Licenses CISSP February 2018 Additional Information Key Skills Administrative Tools Applications  CISSP, 2018 Manage Engine Suite AD Manager Plus Citrix, MS, SAP, PeopleSoft  Change Management AD Audit Plus, AD ToolKit, Hyena V12.5 Adobe CS5  Process Implementation Directory Resource Administration (DRA) Visual Basic, Oracle, Arc Map, Java, C++  Risk Management Active Directory (ADAC,ADUC,ADSS) Windows Live meeting, Cisco Jabber  Change Agent, SIEM Computer/ Group Policy Management Skype for Business, Workplace  IT Security Best Practices, Corporate SAP,(SAP ESS, SAP PRR, SAP Microsoft Office (2010, 2016),  ISO27001/27002, Audit CRM, SAP UDP) SharePoint  Trend Analysis CompuTrace, Secret Server Team Track, FootPrints, ServiceNow  System Administration Office 365 Exchange Admin Center Symantec Endpoint Protection  Gap Analysis & Coverage LANDesk Management Console 10 ADP  Accelerated learning Curve PC Anywhere, RAdminViewer35, LogMeIn WebEx  Change Control Administrator RDP Client, LogMeIn VMware Windows (XP, Vista, 7, 8, 10)  NERC,SOX, HIPPA Compliance AirWatch MDM Admin Console Windows Server (2008, 2012)  Operational assessment & OATI WebCares, OATI OASIS MISO, Mac Os X (Lion, Leopard, Snow Leopard,  Process Implementation MISO GADS, PJM esuite/etools, DigiCert, EL Capitan, Sierra)  GoDaddy  Agile, Thorough, Effective PeopleSoft, Endur, Right Angle, Maximo,  Prioritizing LodeStar  Vulnerability Assessment Nessus