Junior Systems Administrator Junior Systems Administrator Aspiring IT Consultant/ Analyst East Lansing, MI I am a recent graduate and MasterCard Foundation Scholar's Program alumnus at Michigan State University. I am a Computer Science major. I interned with Kana TV (African Group LLC) as a Junior IT Support Engineer. While at Kana, I worked on the development and deployment of a VoIP System for the company on Linux CentOS and administered a system of Linux and Windows servers.     I am particularly interested in Software Programming, Software Testing, Website Design and Development, Data Science, Business Intelligence Solutions, and Cybersecurity.    My interests include computers and network security, cryptography, steganography, bot programming, full stack web development, photography, digital advertising and related topics. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Junior Systems Administrator MATRIX, Michigan State University - East Lansing, MI September 2018 to Present - IT Software/ Hardware troubleshooting   - Software updates and security patches   - Account creation and updates (Active Directory)   - Custom System Software Development   - Network Troubleshooting  - Linux/Windows Server 2012 and 2016 Junior IT Support Engineer - Intern Kana Television - Addis Ababa May 2016 to August 2018 * Installing and configuring computer systems    * Oversee the daily performance of computer systems.    * Set up equipment for employee use, performing or ensuring proper installation of cable, operating systems, and appropriate software.    * Develop training materials and procedures, and/or train users in the proper use of hardware and software  * Diagnosing and solving hardware/software faults    * Conduct office automation feasibility studies, including workflow analysis, space design, and cost comparison analysis    * Logging customer/employee queries and prioritising tasks See less Professional Aide Matrix Digital Media Lab - East Lansing, MI February 2016 to May 2018 A Part-time position.  - Web Development (Mostly Maintenance and updates)   - Websites accessibility and ensuring ADA/WCAG Compliance.  - Digitizing Archives, Books, and Audio Cassettes   - Audio and Video Recording   - Audio and Video Editing and compression and archiving  - Live-streaming Video  - Event Photography IT Support Engineer and Security Analyst (Internship) Kana Television - Addis Ababa May 2017 to August 2017 ? Worked with Kana TV IT Team to monitor network performance/uplink of Cisco supported routers and switches  ? Analyzed incoming and outgoing packets using Wireshark for suspicious activity in the network  ? Worked extensively in preventing and mitigating WannaCry and Petya Ransomware and installed regular patches See less Education Master's in Data Science, Technology and Innovation University of Edinburgh - Edinburgh, City of Edinburgh September 2018 to June 2020 Bachelor's in Computer Science Michigan State University - East Lansing, MI August 2014 to May 2018 Assessments Technical Support Skills — Expert January 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/smw3k4lbvi7ndkld Intermediate Spreadsheet Proficiency with Microsoft Excel — Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate's knowledge of intermediate Microsoft Excel techniques including effectively writing and applying conditional formulas. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/sj56dnhvtuslw7fa Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.