Security IT Analyst I <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> I Security IT Analyst I - AVS Technology Aubrey, TX Work Experience Security IT Analyst I AVS Technology - Richardson, TX December 2017 to Present • Providing first level contact and resolution to clients technical problems.  • Remotely connecting to servers, NVR's and workstations through Dameware and Teamviewer.  • Tracking, routing, redirecting problems to the appropriate resources.  • Escalating priority cases to a Level 2 Analyst.  • Answering emails, phone calls and Service Now tickets from the client.  • Troubleshooting printers, network and email problems.  • Requesting Quotes from Vendors and Purchase Orders from Client Site team's for on-site technical support.  • Programming and connecting devices and equipment in servers and workstations.  • Multitasking through multiple projects, issues, VPN's and security management programs like Amag, Lenel, Genetec and Salient. Security Manager Allied Universal Security - Carrollton, TX February 2017 to December 2017 • Manage staff schedules for all shifts and events to minimize overtime costs.  • Communicate and enforce compliance with state and local laws while emphasizing company standards of professionalism and safety.  • Communicate between client, customers and staff.  • Return phone calls providing sufficient answers to questions.  • Develop procedures for the emergency response and crisis management, physical security, information protection, incident management, and investigations.  • Complete and submit weekly and monthly reports by recording information, occurrences, security activity, access activity and surveillance activities.  • Hire, train and manage staff of seven associates.  • Working under little to no supervision. Security Professional / Allied Universal Security - Carrollton, TX October 2014 to December 2017 • Secured premises and personnel by patrolling property, monitoring surveillance equipment, inspecting buildings, equipment and access points.  • Prevented losses and damage by reporting irregularities; informing violators of policy and procedures.  • Reported all incidents, accidents, and medical emergencies to property management and law enforcement.  • Continuously monitored security cameras and fire, building, and alarm systems.  • Access control and access monitoring. Education High school or equivalent Skills Organization skills, Excellent communication skills, Security