Associate Security Consultant Associate <span class="hl">Security</span> Consultant IT Systems Support Analyst - Ulta Beauty Chicago, IL To positively contribute to a team through my prior knowledge and experience with Information Security. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Associate Security Consultant TrustWave - Chicago, IL October 2016 to Present Coordinate with level 2 merchants to conduct on site Payment Card Industry assessments.  ? Compose Reports on Compliance and Attestations of Compliance to document findings in said assessments.  ? Analyze and reviewe external vulnerability scans to validate vendors PCI compliance.  ? Facilitate the overall Payment Card Industry auditing process to ensure merchants  meet their required due date with FirstData. IT Systems Support Analyst Ulta Beauty - Chicago, IL September 2016 to November 2016 * Ensure Verifone pin pads are trans armored and utilize proper encryption standard  * Analyze Bigfix reports for errors in the rollout of Point of Sale software for registers. Enter into registers via Remote Desktop to test and repair said software  * Input and manage other Point of Sale related incidents via Cherwell Service Management  * 2-month contract through Signature Consultants Information Technology Trainee Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond - Bolingbrook, IL September 2016 to October 2016 * Summer internship within the Information Security Department's Vulnerability Management team.  * Took over primary duties of the daily execution of notifications to technology operation groups regarding the risk and SLA's surrounding the requirements to complete mitigation activities of published security alerts.  * Consumed vulnerability detection and inventory tools output to resolve locations of affected hardware and software for purposes of notifying appropriate technology operation groups.  * Utilized vulnerability management workflow software to document actions taken and applicability of vulnerabilities and planned remediation details. IT Intern Ferrara Candy Company - Richmond, VA May 2016 to August 2016 * Approved/declined users' requests to network files and folders via a Mandatory Access Control System. Made changes in Active Directory.  * Upgraded system hardware, performed memtests and hard disk tests and reimaged laptops/desktops. Electronics Salesman Target Corporation - Romeoville, IL August 2014 to April 2016 * Advised guests in searching for and comparing consumer electronics.  * Required to be proficient in new consumer electronics to aid guests in making the right purchases. Technical Service Advisor Target Corporation - Romeoville, IL October 2014 to January 2015 * Aided customers in choosing the proper repair service by both verbal communication and systems diagnostics.  * Installed drivers, removed bloatware, and imaged hard disks.    October 2013- 2014 February    * Educated customers on hardware compatibility and system builds. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Security and Risk Management Lewis University - Romeoville, IL August 2012 to December 2016 Skills BMC (Less than 1 year), C+ (Less than 1 year), CSS (Less than 1 year), Firewall (Less than 1 year), Forensic (Less than 1 year) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/philip Additional Information Skills  Wireshark, Firewall Configuration, Risk Assessment, Vulnerability Management, Forensic Toolkit (FTK), Linux, Nessus, IP360, MySQL, C++, HTML, CSS, Project Management, Computer Repair, Active Directory Users and Computers, Norton Ghost, Acronis, BMC Remedy, Atlassian JIRA, Cherwell Service Management, InfoBlox IPAM, Bigfix (IBM Endpoint Manager), Subnetting, Network Topology,