Healthcare security Coordinater Healthcare <span class="hl">security</span> Coordinater IT Support/Customer Service Mobile, AL In need of a career that will challenge me to go above and beyond the skills and knowledge I have already acquired.    WILLING TO RELOCATE/ WILLING TO TRAVEL UP TO 25% Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Healthcare security Coordinater USA Medical Center - Mobile, AL Present Myself and a a team of 5, Provide a safe and secure environment for quality care by coordinating all Security Control Center functions and security for systems that are used by Doctors, Student Nurses, PCAs, Nurse Practitioners and etc within USA Healthcare's hospitals, staff supervision of Desk Officers and Control Center Technicians, I also maintain Public Safety records under the general supervision of the Division Commander and the staff supervision of our Senior Client Coordinator.    I use systems such as Venture, Cerner, Healthgate, Active Directory, And Citrix to control/manage/add/remove and update our clients and users in the hospitals.    I work with our HIPAA department Cheif Officer to ensure we are in divine order with all if our users. Keeping all of our patient records secured at all times. Also by creating Confidentiality Agreements for All new and senior employees to sign. Field Technician/Project Leader TEKsystems - Mobile, AL October 2016 to August 2018 USA Medical Hospital  IT Field tech/ Project Leader  Present Employer    I work under established policies and procedures that address daily operation and long-term goals for the Service Department which include interacting with our customers to provide an efficient and reliable service experience.  I perform maintenance inspections, overhauls, repairs, and calibration on a wide range of respiratory equipment devices such as all departments’ printers, computers, doctor laptops, scanners, radiology dictation mics, and etc.   Utilize specialized test equipment such as electrical safety analyzers, ventilator testers, test lungs with patient circuits and oxygen analyzers.  Provide customers with detailed service reports utilizing our web based equipment management system.  Ability and willingness to travel to different clinics and hospital location and provide on-site service.  Maintain inventory and maintenance on company property     Document all work performed and close out all activities upon completion     Maintain a professional appearance and follow established safety standards    Placed purchase orders to different vendors such as Honeywell, Dell, APC, and Seagate to supply hospital with necessary devices.    If needed, I also maintain Warranty orders on products that are broken, was received broken or has manufacturer defects.    Recently became project leader with the responsibilities of Assembling and Leading Project Team, Time Management, Quality and Satisfaction, Monitoring Progress, and Manage Issues and Risk    I continuously build valuable relationships with all medical staff and USA coordinators to express the value of the technology and systems my team implement on a daily basis .  I also implement the Vision of USA Hospital to my everyday activities, to ensure Success over every project and assignment given to me. IT Support/Customer Service Televox Solutions August 2015 to October 2016 08/12/2015-10/25/2016    • Keep a track on integration projects and ensure that they meet business requirements and goals  • Fulfill the end user requirements  • Identify and resolve the system issues  • Making recommendation of the integration products and services by carrying out proper researches  • Collaborate with the vendors to identify the features that might be of value to CRM  • Work with the analysts, system designers, and business owners to lead in the integration testing phase  • Communicate with the software developers and engineers to address any problem in the program logic  • Checking for any issues with the operation of the new applications with the existing system software's and applications  • Improve the business process by integration IT Support/Customer Service AT&T - Pensacola, FL April 2014 to July 2015 AT&T Mobility, Pensacola, Florida  • Provide Employees with the daily performance of computer systems  • Answer user inquiries regarding computer software or hardware operation to resolve problems  • Enter commands and observe functioning of system to verify correct operations and detect errors  • Set up equipment for employee use, performing or ensuring proper installation of cables, operating systems, or appropriate software  • Install and perform minor repairs to hardware, software, or peripheral equipment, following design or installation specifications  • Maintain records of daily data communication transactions, problems and remedial actions taken, or installation activities  • Read technical manuals, confer with users, or conduct computer diagnostics to investigate and resolve problems or to provide technical assistance and support  • Refer major hardware or software problems or defective products to vendors or technicians for service  • Help Supervise a team of 34 others in the proper use of hardware or software used by AT&T  • Determined requirements for new systems or modifications  • Accessed software updates, drivers, knowledge bases, and frequently asked questions resources on the Internet to aid in problem resolution.  • Identified and learn appropriate software and hardware used and supported by AT&T.  • Perform hands-on fixes at the desktop level, including installing and upgrading software, implementing file backups, and configuring systems and applications.  • Test fixes to ensure problem has been adequately resolved.  • Performed post-resolution follow-ups to help requests.  • Developed help sheets and knowledge base articles for end users.  • Performed related duties consistent with the scope and intent of the position Package Handler/Inventory Control Analyst December 2014FedEx Ground(Seasonal) - Mobile, AL July 2012 to July 2012 Ensured successful transfer and delivery of goods to intended destinations.  Additional responsibilities include sorting packages for delivery, operating heavy  machinery, such as forklifts, trucks, and hydraulic conveyor belts, and on rare  Developed, implemented, and monitored all key functions related to inventory transactions to assure that they were accurate and timely.  •Coordinated a cycle count program in a perpetual inventory environment.  •Coordinated the cycle count progress and results to identify necessary recounts and processes to be monitored and provide regular reports on the results.  •Performed thorough research and document inventory discrepancies using all available resources to identify root causes and supply possible solutions.  •Worked with key personnel to effectively implement process improvements to operational procedures in an effort to proactively optimize overall location and item level accuracy and to maintain the highest possible productivity levels.  •Coordinated the efforts of the cycle counts in an effort to identify and correct discrepancies on items at the location level as needed.  •Will monitor warehouse and store transfers for accuracy and cost effectiveness as directed by  Purchasing and Distribution Management.  •Special Order SKU's  •Expedited the daily flow of all special order SKU's to include receiving, labeling, locating and timely shipping.  •Trouble shoot all special order problems from time of receipt, and on occasions, picking up and delivering packages. Education Bachelors in GIS Delta State University August 2017 Associates in Computer Information Systems Bishop State Community College August 2014 to May 2017 Skills Planning (5 years), Powerpoint (5 years), Excel (5 years), Word Processing (5 years), Management (6 years), Leadership Development (3 years), Communications (7 years), Microsoft Office (5 years), Desktop Support (6 years), Healthcare (3 years), It Project Management (3 years), Inventory Control (3 years), Hippa compliance (5 years), Geospatial system training (1 year), ESRI (1 year), Cartography (1 year), Active Directory (2 years), Healthcare (1 year), Cerner (1 year), Bomgar (Less than 1 year), System impelementation (1 year), Kace Ticket System (1 year), Advanced Excel, Cerner (2 years), Venture Health sys (1 year) Awards National Technical Honor Society 2013-10 Kappa Beta Delta Honors Award 2014-06