IT Specialist SYSANALYSIS <span class="hl">IT</span> Specialist SYSANALYSIS IT Specialist SYSANALYSIS - Defence Information Systems Agency Laurel, MD Diligent Cyber Threat Analyst proficient in computer network defense, end point and intrusion analysis. In-depth knowledge and understanding of numerous software packages and operating systems. Skilled in providing customer and end-user help desk support. Easily identify and resolve technical issues and concerns. Excellent communication and presentation capabilities. Effective manager and team player. Adept at finding, tracking, analyzing, identifying and remediating computers security events. Specialized in monitoring network security, software installation and working to prevent cyber-attacks especially in business and corporate settings.    Core Qualifications    • Identify potential security risks  • Signature writing experience  • Understand security software applications  • Excellent communications skills  • Fluently speak English, French, Ewe  • Knowledge of C, MATLAB, Python, Linux CentOS, Verilog, MySQL  • Strong customer service orientation  • Microsoft Server Administration  • Microsoft Office Suite Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Specialist SYSANALYSIS Defence Information Systems Agency - Fort Meade, MD January 2018 to Present • Expressed information to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information. Made clear and convincing oral presentations; listened to others, attended to nonverbal cues, and responded appropriately.  • Worked with clients and customers to assess their needs, provided information or assistance, resolved their problems, or satisfied their expectations; knew about available products and services; provided quality products and services.  • Identified problems; determined accuracy and relevance of information; used sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations. IT Desktop Technician Marine Corps Base Quantico - Quantico, VA October 2017 to December 2017 22134  IT Desktop Support  • Installed / Deinstalled more than 300 computers  • Setup / breakdown staging area  • Performed more than 500 Windows 7 upgrades to Windows 10.  • Operated more than 670 backups of user data  • Completed 700 PC Refresh  • Reported escalation of unresolved issues and confirmation of functionality and resolution of technical and non-technical issues during deployment. Lead and managed over 6 sailors Naval Surface Warfare, U.S. Navy - Bethesda, MD October 2016 to September 2017 9500 Macarthur Boulevard West Bethesda, MD 20817  Document Control  • Ensured all items received by the Classified Inventory Control (CIC) are properly prepared for entry into the Navy Mail system.  • Documented standards and processes for receipt, control, safeguarding, check-in, and check-out of classified material.  • Processed and entered more than 650 classified documents and media into the Barcode Inventory Tracking system and dispose them on the shelf for delivery.  • Sorted and delivered more than 8500 unclassified documents.  • Lead and managed over 6 sailors in directing attendees to their assigned parking lot during the Navy conference held at the base in Carderock. Logistic Specialist Third Class Camp Lemonnier, U.S. Navy - FPO, AE, 09363, US June 2015 to July 2016 • Received and processed flawlessly 46 invoices valued over $27.5 million as a Commercial Bill Pay Clerk. Sustained these commercial bills pays accounts to ensure all services are accurate for payment, which includes: The airport and its facilities services, contracts services as a key location that is vital to all US service members, civilians, contractors, and coalition forces operating in the Horn of Africa (HOA). These invoices also include CLDJ telephone bills that serve for the communication within the camp, and the land lease invoice that is paid yearly for the camp installation.  • Ordered for the Safety Department over 20 purchases that value over $ 15,000.00 as a Repair Parts Petty Officer. Also, expedited many urgent purchases that include the command Coins and Flags as the sole Government Credit Card Holder in Camp Lemonnier, Djibouti. Screened and processed over 20 open purchases requests appropriate for credit card transactions valuing over $18,000.00. Tracked every purchase through transportation avenues and delivery to the requesting work center that contributed to the urgent support of operations on Camp Lemonnier, Djibouti.  • Completed the Logistic Support Representative Certification, and provided administrative support to distribution operations while serving as a liaison between distribution, customers, vendors, sales, and customer service.  • Completed more than 75 safety inspections of the Camp Lemonnier' s facilities, and lead, input, and managed over 250 sailors, soldiers, and airmen through ESAMS, while working for the Safety Department.  • Trained and managed more than 15 sailors in how to prepare documents or forms for their respective department's purchase requests. Cyber Security Analyst Estime Enterprises Inc - Lanham, MD May 2014 to May 2015 • Prepared daily weekly and monthly database security reports.  • Discussed cyber security efforts with management.  • Performed comprehensive investigations of cyber security breaches.  • Purchased new security software and made update recommendation  • Updated cyber security protocol and developed effective training procedures.  • Educated management on how to prevent or minimize cyber security attacks Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Network & Cyber Security, MD University of Maryland University College 2017 Skills Help Desk, Information Technology, It Specialist, Desktop Support, Comptia