Security Engineer <span class="hl">Security</span> Engineer Security Engineer - Check Point Software Technologies New York, NY Highly analytical Computer Engineer with a broad technical knowledge base, along with a strong  aptitude in business-related and analytical concepts to achieve ambitious project objectives at all phases  of the software development life cycle. Past experience includes work in database and product  management, network and security support, technical troubleshooting, business development,  marketing, and branding. Work Experience Security Engineer Check Point Software Technologies - New York, NY October 2017 to Present • Lead the deployment, testing and transition of security solutions.  • Support and maintain the security solutions on a daily basis Implement product upgrades and service  improvements, including technical and operational documentation  • Work closely with other IT teams on integrating security capabilities in the IT solutions (tools, processes and services)  • Create, maintain and ensure adherence with security procedures, technical baselines, guidelines and controls  • Leverage multiple security focus areas to ensure that protective measures are appropriate, effective in combination, and interact properly with other system capabilities  • Identify and assess vulnerabilities in his/her area of responsibility, assist in or facilitates the implementation of protective and mitigating controls  • Provide intensive pre- and post-sales technical consulting to prospective customers and channel partners  Investigate new solution areas for product extensions  • Train customers to master the products and help them optimize it for their infrastructure  • Design and run Early Availability evaluations for R&D  • Develop and Present on Industry trends and new product launches to assist with demand generation to different audiences  • Oversee the customer proposal process and ensure the solutions and recommendations address all  customer requirements. Business Analyst, IT MyTokri- Rajasthan - IN September 2016 to April 2017 India    • Performed vulnerability assessments for system design and criticality.  • Created high-quality marketing strategy documentation, including product marketing briefs, FAQs and objection handling documents  • Identified value propositions and key messages for all of the company's marketing campaigns.  • Cultivated effective partnerships with ecommerce, marketing, sales and customer support staff.  • Communicated marketing teams' plans and accomplishments to verify alignment with senior  management objectives. Data Science - Gujarat, IN December 2015 to January 2016 Cretif- Gujarat, India    • Created alternative business plans and digital marketing strategies to improve customer relationships  • Formulated custom business plans and models depending on customer base  • Developed new business opportunities by effectively communicating product lines to leading  international transport agencies in US and UK.  • Researched common business issues and goals to offer appropriate solutions  • Developed comparison tables of products and services by researching product pricing, ratings and performance and reported my findings through a competitor's analysis.  • Troubleshooted performance on firewall configurations and network servers IT Documentation and Digital Marketing Intern Documentation - Bengaluru, Karnataka September 2015 to November 2015 Aristotle Consultancy- Bangalore, India    • Used PerfMon and VmStat along with Remedy, ticketing tool to document and report errors and changes to the payroll database of international startups and venture capital firms.  • Retained clients to build brand awareness and generate leads while managing internal and external  marketing campaigns and programs.  • Created key Internet marketing activities to acquire and retain new clients through email campaigns,  affiliate marketing, and social media.  • Streamlined operational efficiencies by implementing innovative marketing and sales strategies, including  email-marketing campaigns. Brand Strategist and CRM Intern Areysun - Gujarat, IN December 2014 to February 2015 - Gujarat, India    • Updated digital media with snappy, timely content daily using various branding strategies.  • Managed several campaigns at once under tight deadlines.  • Translated client desires into compelling, engaging and updated campaigns by writing and editing long- and short-form copy for blogs, websites, social media, and presentations  • Maintained working knowledge of marketing and SEO strategies.  • Managed and documented all client account activity using (CRM) programs. ERP Engineer Trainee Metlife - Somerset, NJ May 2014 to July 2014 USA    • Shadowed a Senior Technical Architect at Metlife's EI&A (Enterprise Infrastructure and Application).  • Communicated with stakeholders and leveraged my investigating and troubleshooting skills to identify and debug errors at different levels of the SDLC on UNIX and Windows OS and applied solutions to increase company efficiency.  • Witnessed a Disaster Recovery Drill to ensure the Continuity of Business (COB).  • Underwent many Corporate Application Migrations (Change Requests/Enhancements/Fixes).  • Interacted with the QA and UAT team regarding management of software and hardware deployments, and administrated automation and efficiency improvements  • Coordinated with systems partners to finalize designs and confirm requirements.  Accomplishments    • Published a white literature paper on Virtual Machine Placement in the Cloud Environment in IJCA- (International Journal of Computer Applications- Harvard University).  http://www.ijcaonline.org/archives/volume156/number14/26785-2016912530  • Senior Year Project: Implementation of the Mondrian Algorithm in Big Data Publishing using Map-Reduce on Hadoop  • Assisted in landing MyTokri a Selection for Y Combinator, "the world's most powerful start-up incubator"  (located in Silicon Valley), that provides seed funding to startups from investors.  • Selected for GMIC- world's largest mobile technology conference for MyTokri representation  • Scrum Certified- Scrum is an agile software development framework for managing product development. Education Bachelors in Technology, Computer Engineering Sardar Vallabhbhai National Institute of Technology - Surat, Gujarat 2017 High School Diploma John P. Stevens High School Edison 2013 Skills SECURITY (Less than 1 year), ACTIVE DIRECTORY (Less than 1 year), AWS (Less than 1 year), DLP (Less than 1 year), ENCRYPTION (Less than 1 year) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/sanjana-shah-2530698a Additional Information • Skills: Computer Networking, Network Security, Project Management, CRM, Microsoft Azure, Amazon  AWS, Google Cloud Platform, Big Data and Machine Learning, Virtualization, IPS/IDS, Application Security  and Encryption Technologies, DLP, Firewalls, VMWare, Active Directory, Web Security, Mobile Security,  Endpoint Security