Cyber Security Analyst Cyber <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Cyber Security Analyst - Convergentz (FDA) Cyber Security Analyst looking to leverage my experience into a Cyber Security Engineer role where I can add value and grow. Work Experience Cyber Security Analyst Convergentz (FDA) September 2018 to Present Investigates defensive measures and information collected from a variety of sources to identify, analyze, and report events that occur or might occur within the network in order to protect information, information systems, and networks from threats of FDA network.  ? Reviewing and analyzing log files to report any unusual or suspect activities  ? Reporting incidents to US CERT and providing detailed information for use in after action reports  ? Providing technical support for new detection capabilities, recommendations to improve upon existing tools/capabilities to protect the VA network, and assessments for High Value Assets  ? Carry out vulnerability test, scans and configuration updates.  ? Produce and maintain dashboards for monitoring security information for the management and Information Security team, to be able to provide various degree of visibility both real-time and over extended periods of the security events within the environment.  ? Perform periodic and on-demand system audits and vulnerability assessments, including user accounts, application access, file system and external Web integrity  ? Provide support to the Security Operations Center during incident response and threat hunting activities that includes cyber threat analysis support, research, recommending relevant remediation and mitigation.  ? Utilize tools to perform some level of threat hunting of malware and malicious events  ? Perform as an escalation point for all incidents relating to potential security  ? Participate in maintaining a DLP solution to effectively give notice of violations to affected parties, and to reduce incidences of false positives IT Support Analyst/ Security Administrator NuAxis Innovations (National Park Service) August 2017 to August 2018 Incident Response generation and reporting and escalate events to senior analysts/engineers  ? Security penetration testing and vulnerability discovery and validation using techniques like phishing and social engineering methods  ? Knowledge of TCP/UDP/IP networking, familiarity with packet analysis tools such as WireShark, and a general understanding of networking protocols similar to COMPTIA Network+  ? Using active directory to enforce group policy on all devices in the network to ensure security of devices.  ? Performing Intrusion Detection analytics working with the examination of logs and console events using software like Splunk and McAfee ePO  ? Carry out vulnerability test, scans and configuration updates.  ? Managing the printer server as well adding printers to printer server using DHCP server to ensure Printer have static IP address  ? Using Active directory to create new accounts, disable, delete and move account to different OUs based on user home facility.  ? Primary contact to ensure user data kept its integrity by backing up user Profile and moving to offsite server.  ? Enrolling all mobile devices in MaaS360, Mobile device management console for users to have access to work email and other network resources need to complete daily job activities.  ? Completing Windows 10 migration for over 1500 users by reimaging dell laptops, In place upgrades and MAC book set up.  ? Using SCCM to push software packages to user's device as well pushing patch updates to devices on network Desk Support Specialist Carnegie Endowment of International Peace November 2016 to May 2017 Primary Technical support for over 400 end users around the world  ? Provide technical training for end-users on support software and programs to ensure they are being used correctly as well as developing training course.  ? Training users in new applications (web based and sometimes classroom environment)  ? Provide telephone and onsite support to local end users as well as end-users in our foreign offices while providing extraordinary customer service skills.  ? Provide desk side support to all local end users by diagnosing and resolving software and hardware incidents, including operating systems (Windows and Mac) and across a range of software applications.  ? Work with staff to establish training schedules as well organize and conduct training session with all users  ? Imagining and configuring PCs that are required to fulfill incidents, IMAC and Refresh projects as well as install, test and troubleshoot computer and peripherals.  ? Provide mobile phone support by setting up new / current end users work email on mobile phone as well as their two-factor authentication  ? Assign software License to end users as well as provide a quick training on how to work that supported software.Perform administrative tasks including accounts creations, passwords reset, email accounts and granting access to drives, folder, groups and files in accordance to security guidelines.  ? Responsible for moving, installing and removing (Moves, Adds and Changes (MAC)) on-site IT and related equipment in support of ongoing operational activities. Support-Shared Equipment Handling and Support management of shared equipment. Service Desk Analyst Tier 2 Lockheed Martin June 2016 to October 2016 Provide phone and in-person support to users in the areas of email, directories, and standard Windows desktop application to over 70,000 HHS employees.  ? Provide single point of contact for troubling shooting hardware/software PC & printer problems.  ? Provide courteous, quality and responsive support to all HHS customers  ? Aid with desktop applications, network and general workstation  ? Create, resolve and escalate tickets to individual queues using Remedy  ? Provide end user support post migration  ? Installed and configured COTS/GOTS applications  ? Applied solutions by restoring broken or intermittent connections  ? Adjusted software configuration installed patches and rebooted entire system  ? Maintain, repair and install personal PCs and network hardware/software  ? Provide users with mobile phone training as well as quick helpful tips on how to work their new phones and apps on phone.  ? Provide level 2 end-user technical support for windows 7, Microsoft Office, Network connectivity  ? Blackberry Support, adding and deleting users to the network R. Emmanuel Bell Consulting & Training Center October 2014 to June 2016 Install software, modify and repair hardware and resolve technical issues  ? Display courtesy and strong interpersonal skills with all customer interactions  ? Provide basic technical training to new end users as well as new staff.  ? Develop quick reference guides to assist end-users with challenging software application features  ? Manage windows workstations including desktops, laptops, and tablets  ? Ensure that remedy and Spiceworks tickets are resolved or escalated  ? Develop client SharePoint Foundation 2010 sites and provide support as needed  ? PC refresh and migration XP to Windows 7 and 8  ? Process incidents/request in a high pressure, time sensitive environment via phone, email, instant messaging and desk side.  ? Provide initial troubleshooting of problems including root cause analysis for desktop, laptop and printers (local / network)  ? Create and manage network accounts to include granting access to secured file shares  ? Manage bench IT inventory  ? Active directory- Account creation, Password resets, Group Policies. Education Bachelor's in Cyber Security & Computer Network UMUC - Washington, DC January 2018 to Present Fairmont Heights High School - Capitol Heights, MD 2012 Skills active directory (2 years), printers (2 years), Remedy (2 years), Security (2 years), windows 7 (2 years), Cyber Security, Information Security, Nist, Siem, Network Security Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ March 2019 to March 2022 Security+ January 2019 to January 2022 HDI Desktop Support Technician January 2018 to Present MTA Security Fundamentals March 2018 to Present Additional Information Technical Skills  SVIP-Splunk -DAR Encryption-Incident Response - SharePoint 2010 - Windows Server 2008R2/2012 - Vendor Management - Windows 7/8/10- MS Office 2010/2013 - Ports, Protocols and TCP/IP - IE 8/9/10 - Google Chrome -Firefox-Safari-Bomgar -Cisco VoIP -Windows Operating System Migration - Networking- Microsoft Outlook- VPN/network Connections - Remedy Ticketing System - iPhone 5s/6/7 - Mac Support -Microsoft Active Directory - Diagnostic -Windows Remote Assistance -Cabling - Break/Fix -Switches -DHCP - SCCM -EaaS -MaaS360 -Spiceworks - Blackberry -Win7 migration -Microsoft Exchange 2010/2013 - Security Management-Information Insurance- Encryption -LAN/WAN -Zen desk -New TightVNC- MobileIron - Fortinet Fortitoken 200 - Daemon Tools -Wasp Mobile asset -GoToAssist - Carbon Black- Skype for business 2015 -Dropbox - Box -Adobe Creative cloud -Avaya IP Phones - Android Phones - Polycom RealPresence Desktop- Asset management -Notepad++ -Imaging - Application Installation/ Imaging Drives - Virus And Malware Removal - Office 365- Cat5, Cat6, And Multimode- Restore Data And System Recovery- Domain Specified-iPads- Domain Trust- Folder Permissions- PST File -Management- Workstation Setup-Cybersecurity -Microsoft Office 2010/2013/2016 - Lync 2010/2013 - Local/Network Printers- Multifunctional devices (printer, scanner, copier & fax machine)- Asset Management- Windows Desktop- Dameware - McAfee Encryption - FootPrints -Symantec -Go To Meetings - Avaya One X Communicator - Scansnap S1500- Splunk ES -RSA Netwitness - Palo Alto - Wireshark -McAfee ePO - Zenoss - Redline - Service Now Ticketing system- Agiliance Riskvision - IDS Monitoring- SIEM- PCAP - Vulnerability Remediation-FireEye