Cyber Security Analyst Cyber <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Cyber Security Analyst Fleet Forces Command - Navy Authorizing Official Suffolk, VA Work Experience Cyber Security Analyst Fleet Forces Command/ Office of the Navy Authorizing Official/Atlantic Systems Group - Suffolk, VA March 2018 to Present • Enforced DoD Information Assurance Certification & Accreditation Process (DIACAP) Certification & Authorization (C&A) policies for systems and sites transitioning to Risk Management Framework (RMF) Assessment & Authorization (A&A) requirements and processes.  • Reviewed C&A Plan, System Identification Profile (SIP), Plan of Action & Milestones (POA&M), and Risk Assessment Report (RAR) and provided approval/disapproval recommendation to the Authorizing Official (AO).  • Utilized eMASS to ensure authorization decisions were supported by sufficient security documentation and artifact submissions.  • Verified proper implementation and classification of security controls according to National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)/ Security Technical Implementation (STIG) guidelines.  • Completed compliance assessments of systems, sites, networks and applications to ensure security controls were addressed and implemented in accordance with DoD/Navy cyber security policy. Cyber Operations Security Analyst/ Information Assurance Event Analyst DXC/Hewlett-Packard/ACI Federal - Norfolk, VA May 2016 to March 2018 • Monitored, verified and tracked the level of enterprise security according to DON and DOD security policy and guidelines.  • Detected and contained all intrusion attempts and attempts at unauthorized access to DON information systems via HIPS, NIDS, and DLP alerts.  • Ensured the proper logging, management and reporting of all security events and exceptions.  • Performed initial investigations on any suspicious activity and reported the potential events to the NMCI Command Center (NMCICC) and/or Critical Incident Response Team (CIRT).  • Monitored, researched, and reported all incoming email IA alerts.  • Ensured all tools and sensors were available and operational.  • Performed Anti-Virus definition updates according to current processes to the Unclassified and Classified NMCI network.  • Reviewed security websites for potential threats.  Cyber Operations Security Analyst/ Information Assurance Event Analyst ~~~~~~~~~~)  • Managed and monitored all HPSM and Remedy queues both classified and unclassified.  • Investigated all rogues/cross domains detected on the network in accordance with the approved Rogue Procedures. IT Specialist Junior USMC MARFORCOM March 2016 to April 2016 • Assisted Help Desk customers with troubleshooting of computer related issues such as virus removal/password resets/email setup/software installs.  • Installed, serviced, and repaired personal computers and laptops.  • Connected personal computers to existing data networks.  • Configured and resolved issues with local and network printers.  • Provided basic LAN/WAN network troubleshooting.  • Created, managed, and terminated user accounts in Active Directory.  • Communicated technical information to both technical and non-technical personnel.  • Resolved user issues submitted via ticketing system, phone, email, or chat.  • Used troubleshooting skills and experience to resolve many issues immediately.  • Recommended documented solutions and/or temporary alternative procedures to users.  • Performed data and information management, and preliminary quality assurance activities that included data entry, maintenance, correction, verification, and validation.  • Prepared and submitted forms for tracking work activities, requests and responses to include the correct categorization, indexing, storage and management of data and information. Tech Support Service Desk Agent/Help Desk Technician Tier I Unisys - Virginia Beach, VA November 2015 to January 2016 • Initial point of contact who gathered and analyzed user's issues/questions about installation, operation, configuration, customization, and usage of applications and inputted data in appropriate ticketing system.  • Responded to and resolved customer requests regarding software, hardware and network issues.  • Utilized Active Directory to unlock and reset passwords and resolve username problems.  • Resolved basic network connectivity issues by identifying IP or TCP/IP, MAC addresses and VPN software configuration.  • Troubleshot Internet Explorer browser settings and Outlook/Exchange webmail issues.  • Delivered consistently high levels of efficient and friendly customer service.  • Managed time and workload to meet predetermined service levels.  • Documented all interactions, issues, problems and applicable troubleshooting steps and outcomes.  • Assisted users with navigation of application menus.  • Escalated complex problems to the Remote Support Engineering staff and/or Field Engineering staff when necessary. Intern/Volunteer CIS Department ECPI October 2014 to October 2015 Basic VMWare instance setup for classroom environment.  • Basic Network Topology Design using Visio.  • Basic exposure to Windows Server.  • Introduction to Microsoft Excel class for community service Teacher's Assistant. Education Masters of Business Administration in Marketing. Summa Strayer University - Chesapeake, VA B.A. in Communication Studies Virginia Tech University Skills Information Security, Nist, Information Assurance, It Security, Cyber Security Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ CompTIA Network+ CompTIA A+