( SMT ) Surface Mount Technology ( SMT ) Surface Mount Technology IT Support Specialist - Titan Networking Plano, TX • A highly detail oriented and bright professional with a sound knowledge of technology, network administration, and security.  • Strong implementation, organization and client facing skills with the ability to understand business requirements and apply technology solutions effectively.  • Exceptional communication skills successfully interacting with internal teams as well as clients' operational and management staff.  • Experienced in understanding technical requirements and delivering appropriate solutions.  • Dedicated, energetic, focused and able to adapt to new and demanding work environments. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience ( SMT ) Surface Mount Technology Krypton Sloution - Plano, TX January 2016 to Present •IPC-A-610 certified  •operate the machine, which includes understanding the sequence of events, the control panel and indicators, and understand how to replenish supplies and components per Standard Operating Procedures  •set-up of the machine, which includes machine adjustments and ability to perform set-up (feeder loading and changing) per the manufacturing instructions and Standard Operating Procedure.   •general machine cleaning and upkeep per the Standard Operating Procedures  •complete shortage tags Founding Partner Xsheesha September 2014 to Present •Manage and own lounge.  •Installed security firewalls, cameras, and multiple Wi-Fi access points. Security Technician AT&T DIGITAL LIFE/ MASTEC - Dallas, TX January 2016 to June 2016 •Performs service/installation of access control, intrusion alarm, closed circuit television systems, and other various security related systems  •Evaluates, diagnoses, troubleshoots systems and perform repairs as necessary panel and indicators, and understand how to replenish supplies and components per Standard Operating Procedures  •Performs computer program entry as required to add closed circuit television cameras, access control devices, and intrusion alarm systems as needed.  •Performs upgrades and additions to systems in order to increase functionality and usability •Evaluates, diagnoses, troubleshoots systems and perform repairs as necessary IT Support Specialist Titan Networking January 2015 to January 2016 •Diagnosed and repaired hardware with Windows (XP, Vista, 7, 8, 10), and Mac OSX operating systems.  •Managed and implemented upgrades for both software and hardware devices.  •Performed detail diagnostic tests and removed viruses, spyware, malware, Trojans, worms, and etc.  •Advised customers on technical issues as well as explained implementing more effective security measures.  •Provided one on one consulting sessions helping to educate customers on the importance of technology configuration and appropriate use of security software for better protection. Test Analyst Ericsson February 2013 to September 2014 •Drove to antenna sites to diagnose issues.  •Tested and analyzed streaming data to ensure quality assurance.  •Analyzed LTE networks to check performance, latency, and bandwidth. Skills • A highly detail oriented and bright professional with a sound knowledge of technology, network administration, and security. • Strong implementation, organization and client facing skills with the ability to understand business requirements and apply technology solutions effectively. • Exceptional communication skills successfully interacting with internal teams as well as clients' operational and management staff. • Experienced in understanding technical requirements and delivering appropriate solutions. • Dedicated, energetic, focused and able to adapt to new and demanding work environments.