Student Intern, Student Ministries Student Intern, Student Ministries Student Intern, Student Ministries - Church of the Covenant Parma, OH To obtain a position in finance, accounting, or business analysis, where I can utilize my analytical, problem-solving and programing skills.    EXECUTIVE PROFILE    Dynamic, goal-oriented, multi-lingual team-player with a track record of consistently meeting and exceeding established goals and objectives. Work Experience Student Intern, Student Ministries Church of the Covenant - Cleveland, OH June 2012 to Present In the process of creating new attendance and financial recordkeeping data system. Planned efficiency gain: 34%.  • Re-designed the image of student ministries. As a result, volunteer attendance increased by 27% IT Security Assurance Analyst Assistant, Information Security Team Case Western Reserve University - Cleveland, OH October 2011 to January 2013 Designed, developed, tested, implemented, maintained, documented, and supported statistical-analytical reporting solutions to analyze security incident data.  • Compiled end user manual on implementation of optimal security levels on client devices.  Established contacts with students, faculty and staff to propagate information security awareness Change Management Lead Analyst Getronics March 2010 to November 2010 Worked with user and higher level support groups to identify and document basic system configuration recommendations to streamline support processes and increase business efficiency.  • Analyzed workflow and reported necessary changes to management, increased efficiencies by 23%.  • As part of the change management team, developed, reviewed and edited crisis and outage management documentation and response procedures after collecting inputs from service delivery manager and user groups.  • Re-designed and developed new Key Performance Indicators (KPI) for management to monitor team and individual agent performance to comply with changes in service level agreements.  • Streamlined and standardized business processes in the problem and incident management area to enhance overall customer service and brand experience. Service Desk Analyst Getronics August 2008 to November 2010 Resolved complex desktop configuration and network software issues in English and German.  • Developed, reviewed, and edited professional technical documentation on resolution processes in response to newly emerging problems and efficient resolution methods to enrich knowledgebase as well as increase team efficiency.  • Handled 50+ calls per day on average from corporate customers, i.e., Sybase, BT and Barclay's.  • Provided professional customer service and troubleshooting in a high stress environment with average yearly customer satisfaction rate of 98.5% (11/10-11/11). Night Auditor Hyatt Key West Resort and Spa January 2008 to May 2008 Provided daily reports to management on all accounts, balanced accounts for fiscal day close.  • Monitored cashier receipts for potential fraud, posted accurate charges to guest accounts. Front Desk Agent Hyatt Key West Resort and Spa June 2007 to May 2008 Handled guest issues throughout the entire guest-cycle, average daily guest arrivals was 47.  • Provided on demand peer coaching, when front office activities were pooled, and scope was widened. As a result the Front Desk operated with 21% higher efficiency.  • Received the Employee of the Quarter Award (04/08) Education Masters of Science in Management Finance Weatherhead School of Management - Case Western Reserve University - Cleveland, OH August 2011 to December 2012 Masters of Business Administration CEU Business School - Central European University September 2010 to July 2011 Bachelor of Science in Economics Budapest Business School September 2005 to July 2010 Skills Leadership and Coaching, Presentation Skills, Process Improvement, Consulting, Creativity, Flexibility Links http://re.vu/bzombory Additional Information ADDITIONAL SKILLS  • MS Office, Visual Basic, SAS, Python, Java, HTML/CSS, Adobe Photoshop  • Hungarian (fluent), German (intermediate), Spanish (basic), Hebrew (basic)  • GARP Financial Risk Manager Certificate candidate  • Completed the Microsoft Certified Desktop Support Technician Exam, 2010  • Salsa instructor and professional dance and theatre performer since 2008