Security Analyst I <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> I College IT intern Columbus, OH Security analyst adept at resolving complex network and security issues. Critical thinker who addresses customer support issues quickly and consistently exceeds performance standards. Capable of defining, deploying and monitoring risk management, compliance, and information security programs. Level-headed and calm in stressful situation with well-developed people skills.  • CompTIA, A+, Security + Certified  • Basic understanding of Python, SQL, Linux  • Providing network support includes configuring IPs and routers  • Backup and recovery solutions, install and update application driver issue.  • Virus security, prevention, detection, and removal  • LAN/WAN/SAN, TCP/IP, VoIP, DNS, HTTP, Wireless/VPN Arch. Experience  • Group Policy Objects managed through Active Directory  • Configuring and troubleshooting network devices such as firewalls, switches, and routers  • Very experienced with Microsoft Windows 7, 8, and 10.  • Ability to work with minimal direction and guidance.  • Ability to multitask and work on multiple projects.  • Ability to prioritize and organize deliverables based on needs.  • Experience with basic Printer support.  • Working knowledge of LAN protocols and TCP/IP Ability to clearly document systems and procedures  • Patient, diligent, organized, proactive, quality focus and reliable and punctual.  • Ability to implement secure protocols and to explain the importance of secure staging deployment concepts.  • Familiar with different type of cloud services and mobile device management concept.  • Ability to explain the importance of physical security controls and common account management practices, ability to explain risk management processes and concepts  • Ability to follow incident response procedures, disaster recovery practices, and business impacts analysis concepts.  • Ability to carry out data security and privacy practices, configure wireless security settings.  • Testing new units and install appropriate applications and drivers.  • Familiar with ServiceNow, Qradar, Qualys, Palo alto, Splunk, Windows Defender ATP, Tanium, Office 365 ATP  • OSU Cyber security member    Core Compentencies Work Experience Security Analyst I Ohio DAS - Columbus, OH January 2019 to Present   • Identified malware and intrusion issues.        • Conducted initial research based on analytic experienced.       • Examined alerts from various security monitoring tools.        • Monitored, investigated, and reported incidents of suspicious activity.        • Identified potential risks, such as virus and malware attacks, and hacking, Scanned sites for malware and security risks on a regular basis, DDoS monitoring, Botnet activity, Compromised account and Website monitoring College IT intern OHIO EPA October 2018 to January 2019 • Imaging systems and deploying applications.  • Assisted end users with their issues.  • Resetting passwords.  • Meet with senior team to discuss topics related to network security.    OHIO DAS  Cyber security analyst - Intern Current position  • Identified malware and intrusion issues.  • Conducted initial research based on analytic experienced.  • Examined alerts from various security monitoring tools.  • Monitored, investigated, and reported incidents of suspicious activity.  • Identified potential risks, such as virus and malware attacks, and hacking, Scanned sites for malware and security risks on a regular basis, DDoS monitoring, Botnet activity, Compromised account and Website monitoring    Columbus, OH |614-707-81-86| aadoumhissein@student.cscc.edu Quality Assurance Technician Techdata - Groveport, OH June 2018 to September 2018 • Performed final requirements. And in-process inspections and audits to ensure computer builds are performed according to specifications and build  • Complies with ISO and other quality system standards for new desktops  • Installed, upgrade, support and troubleshoot Windows OS  • Repaired and tested new computers. Technical Support/ Customer Service Teleperformance - Columbus, OH August 2016 to May 2018 • Received calls, evaluated situation and provided first level resolution, assistance and support.  • Identified issues, follows support processes and suggested updates as needed to provide service/problem resolution on first call.  • Escalated issues/concerns not able to be resolved to next level as appropriate.  • Issued call tickets for resolved problems and problem tickets for escalated issues.  • Used good listening skills, provided clear communication and thoroughly documented all relevant data Education Associate of Applied Science degree in Applied Science Columbus State Community College - Columbus, OH December 2019 Skills Tech Support, Helpdesk Support, Desktop Support, Service Desk, Help Desk, security, Active Directory Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ January 2019 to March 2022 CompTIA Security+ March 2019 to March 2022