Quantitative Reporting Analyst Quantitative Reporting <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Quantitative Reporting Analyst - Stonehambank Boston, MA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Quantitative Reporting Analyst Stonehambank - Stoneham, MA January 2018 to Present • New position created to improve the reporting and development of new reports to the executive team, auditors and board of directors. My role is to use the core system to develop trend analysis, forecast future performance and graph the data for the senior team.  • Our core system creates stress tests for each of our loan concentrations (commercial real estate, restaurants, et al). In this role these tests are analyzed and reconstructed to highlight potential risks and problem areas for the bank. The risks are quantified and necessary funds are reserved to mitigate the risk based on the reports. Commercial Loan Portfolio Manager March 2017 to January 2018 • Managed a $59.5 million-dollar (302 loan) portfolio which is the largest in both volume and size in the bank, while growing the portfolio by $9 million since March while earning the highest average yield in bank (5.34%) through negotiation.  • Underwrote and processed new commercial loans, which included evaluations of the creditworthiness of potential borrowers through cash flow analysis and applicable market research. Junior Mortgage Originator June 2016 to March 2017 • Assisted senior originators in application process by collecting documentation and determining the ability of potential homebuyers' ability to repay their mortgage.  • Lead project streamlining mortgage process by breaking down the entire process and identifying the bottleneck points. Through this process we were able to reduce time to close by four days, causing the bank to lead the area in approval time. Information Security- IT Business systems intern Commonwealth Financial Network - Waltham, MA August 2015 to June 2016 • Assisted advisors in preventing and remediating identity theft by responding to inquiries through the service desk and applying the necessary measures to reduce the risk to the customers.  • Developed security processes and policies as technology developed gaps in the policy at Commonwealth. Included in this are use of tablets outside of the company, work from home procedures and editing of previous policies.    Community Leadership and Involvement Education Master of Science in Finance Bentley University - Waltham, MA September 2015 Skills Excel (5 years), MICROSOFT SHAREPOINT (2 years), Microsoft Word (10+ years), Outlook (5 years), Peachtree (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Skills  • Extensive experience with Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook, SharePoint; FactSet, Process Model, SAP, Peachtree, STATA, SAS, Sageworks  • Bloomberg Certification 2013