IT Security Intern <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> Intern IT Security Intern - SOUTHWEST AIRLINES Fairborn, OH Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience IT Security Intern SOUTHWEST AIRLINES - Dallas, TX January 2017 to Present Currently working in IT security team which monitors and manages the security of IT infrastructure and security policies.  • Performed vulnerability identification and analysis of enterprises systems using CyberArk tool, and generated weekly  vulnerability report.  • Collaborating with the compliance team to establish IT Audit processes and procedures for control testing thereby  satisfying PCI and SOX requirements. IT Security Intern DSW INC - Columbus, OH May 2016 to August 2016 Worked in the IT security team which performs identification, evaluation, and mitigation of security risks within the DSW Inc.  • Developed a SOP for Qualys vulnerability management tool, Tripwire FIM tool, TrendMicro antivirus and Proofpoint  email scanner, which is implemented as a standard operating procedure in DSW IT- security team.  • Performed vulnerability detection and management using Qualys Guard vulnerability management tool and generated a  weekly report.  • Investigated incidents detected by Symantec DLP tool and coordinated with respective teams to resolve escalated incidents.  • Create and managed security policies exceptions for ad-hoc request and ensuring that all policy exception are implemented within the given service level agreement.  • Automated Tripwire FIM to automatically generate the tickets for unauthorized changes with respective IT-teams and reduced the manual effort for raising tickets by 85%. Software Engineering Analyst ACCENTURE SERVICES - Pune, Maharashtra August 2012 to August 2015 Worked as a software quality analyst and pen-tester for web application and web services.  • Developed a TATC SOA testing framework for Parasoft SoaTest tool, which was implemented in Accenture as web  services testing standard using Parasoft.  • Performed threat, vulnerability, & risk analysis of web application by using Nessus tool and presented report to web  application development team.  • Performed task like test planning, test scenario preparation, test execution, defect reporting, attending defect triage call,  prioritization, and coordination with multiple vendors.  • Received the "Accenture Financial Services Zenith Propel Award" at Accenture India Delivery Center level in 2014 and "Performer of the Quarter" award in 2013. IT Intern ACCENTURE SERVICES - Pune, Maharashtra April 2012 to July 2012 • Worked as a Java developer for one of the banking client, and performed middleware testing for web services.  • Created JSP and Servlet pages for core banking web application. Education Master of Science in Cyber Security WRIGHT STATE UNIVERSITY - Dayton, OH August 2015 Skills Cyber Security (3 years), Qualys vulnerability (3 years), NESSUS (3 years), Wireshark (3 years), Java (3 years), PYthon (3 years), PYthon, PCI-DSS (1 year), SOX, SOX (1 year), IT Security (3 years), Computer Network Security, Computer Network Security (2 years) Certifications/Licenses CEH July 2017 Security+ February 2016 Additional Information Technical Skills  Security Tools: Qualys VM, CyberArk, Symantec DLP, Tripwire FIM, TrendMicro, Wireshark, Nmap, Nessus, OWASP,  TCP/IP, PCI-DSS, SOX.  Programming Languages: JAVA, Python, Linux, Bash Scripting, Android Studio, Hadoop Map Reduce, Pig Latin and Spark.  Testing: Parasoft SoaTest tool, SOAP UI, Web services testing, and HPQC.