Capstone Project Capstone Project IT Auditor/ IT Security Risk Professional/ IT Security Analyst Boston, MA Highly motivated and analytical individual with 2.5+ years of experience looking for a job in IT Audit. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Capstone Project Northeastern University - Boston, MA September 2017 to December 2017 - Assisted in the internal IT Audit process;  - Helped increase the Audit and Advisory services department's web presence within the University by redesigning and developing their new website. Information Security Analyst Intern Stream in Motion - Boston, MA January 2017 to March 2017 • Identified new threats and assessed vulnerabilities to determine and initiate mitigation processes;  • Performed risk assessments to create awareness for the management;  • Designed information security policies and procedures based in ISO 27001:2013 and controls based on NIST 800-53;  • Perform vulnerability scanning and analyzing reports from these scans;  • Training staff on network and information security practices. IT Auditor National Agency for Information Agency - Tirana, AL January 2014 to January 2016 • Execute complex IT audits to ensure confidentiality, integrity and availability of systems.  • Analyze IT controls, policies, procedures and guidelines of each institution we audited.  • Get reports from Oracle Audit Vault and analyze them.  • Draft reports detailing audit findings.  • Assist in the creation of automated alerts on Oracle Audit Vault which notified systems’ administrators for vulnerabilities  detected.  • Representing the institution in promoting ICT as an integral part to the delivery of government information, services and  processes while having cost effectiveness and efficiency. Research Assistant American University in Bulgaria - Blagoevgrad. January 2013 to May 2013 • Collect and analyze data and provide easy access to this data for the professor.  • Supervise students working on their final papers.  • Prepare presentations for classes, prepare quizzes and tests. Student Advisor American University in Bulgaria - Blagoevgrad January 2012 to May 2013 • Undergo training on effective communication skills, decision making, dealing with change, time and stress  management.  • Participate in professional development activities such as session observations each semester.  • Provide tutoring in Finance and Mathematics, assist students choose appropriate academic schedules, connect  students to campus resources.  • Plan, organize and present workshops on academic and social skills. Resident Assistant American University in Bulgaria - Blagoevgrad May 2011 to May 2013 • Responsible for creating programs and activities designed to meet the needs of residents on our floors.  • As a peer helper, responsible for connecting residents to other campus opportunities.  • Educating residents on their actions and decisions while informing them about how their actions impact an entire  community.  • Completing weekly reports and other department paperwork, administering surveys and assisting with check-ins and  check-outs of residents. Intern American University - Tirana, AL December 2012 to January 2013 • Budget planning and implementation issues.  • Issues of surveillance, monitoring and technical issues.  • Involved with operations of key department of the Ministry of Finance.  • Became familiar with related technical procedures, work ethics and ways of communication. Delegate Model UN - Tirana, AL October 2008 to October 2008 • Improve academic skills, including research and organization techniques.  • Expand knowledge of international issues and conflicts.  • Refine negotiations and debate abilities.  • Develop diplomatic and leadership skills within a multi-cultural atmosphere. Education Graduate Degree in Information Security Management "Northeastern University" September 2016 Undergraduate Degree in Information Systems & Business Administration "American University in Bulgaria" 2009 to 2013 Skills CSS3 (Less than 1 year), Excel (Less than 1 year), Oracle (2 years), TCP/IP Networking (2 years), Microsoft SQL and Access (2 years), MySQL (2 years), Microsoft Project (2 years), HTML 5 (Less than 1 year), R (Less than 1 year), Python (Less than 1 year), Research (4 years), Risk Assessment (2 years), security frameworks such as NIST 800-53, FISMA, ISO-IEC 27001:2005, COBIT, PCI DSS and HIPAA. (3 years) Awards Outstanding Student Advisor 2013-05 Outstanding Resident Assistant 2012-05 Gold, Silver and Bronze medals from Math Olympiads 2009 Every School Year from 2003-2009.  9 Medals in total won in National Olympiads in Albania and abroad. Publications Payment Gateway Implementation in e-Albania Portal 2015-04 Additional Information CISA Certification in Process