Tier II / Laptop Technician Tier II / Laptop Technician Waldorf, MD A young professional with 4 years of IT experience ranging from helpdesk and audio visual to system administrative roles. Looking to be a part of a team and provide my contribution on a long term, permanent or contractor role. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Tier II / Laptop Technician December 2017 to Present Prepare functional requirements and specifications for hardware acquisitions.  . Ensure that problems have been properly identified and solutions will satisfy the user's requirements.  . Imaging, configuring and deploying laptops.  . Troubleshoot technical issues and problems to complete resolution.  . Perform fixes as required, including installing and upgrading software, and configuring systems and applications. DIPLOMATIC SECURITY OFFICER INTER-CON/DEPARTMENT December 2016 to December 2017 • Serves as member of elite Special Operations unit that provides United States State Department visiting dignitaries with armed security protection.  • Escorts personnel to political and diplomatic events all while ensuring the safety and of visiting dignitaries and State department personnel.  • Implement the proper measures in regards to security alarms, security violations, accidents and injuries, and verifying personnel and visitor authorization before granting access for the security of multiple government buildings.  • Works with the D.C. Police Department, Secret Service, and other government agencies to ensure the safety of government personnel, all while maintaining and controlling potential criminal activity in and around building premises. . SERVICE DESK TECHNICIAN SENECA RESOURCES, INC April 2016 to December 2016 • Performed onsite analysis, diagnosis, and resolution of complex desktop problems for end users, and recommend and implement corrective solutions, including offsite repair for remote users as needed  • Installed, configured, tested, maintained, monitored, and troubleshooted end-user workstations and related hardware and software in order to deliver required desktop service levels  • Assessed the need for and implement performance upgrades to pc boxes, including the installation of cpus, i/o and nic cards, hard disks, hard drives, ram, memory chips, cd-roms, and so on  • Collaborated with lan technicians/network administrators to ensure efficient operation of the company's desktop computing environment  • Where required, administered and resolved issues with associated end-user workstation networking software products  • Received and responded to incoming calls, pages, and/or e-mails regarding desktop problems via the assignment of trouble tickets AUDIO VISUAL TECHNICIAN NORTH POINT ATHLETIC DEPT July 2016 to September 2016 • Set up, operated, maintained and repaired equipment used to enhance live events, such as microphones, video recorders, projectors, lighting and sound mixing equipment.  • Recorded meetings and presentations with video cameras, operate spotlights, adjust amplifiers, coordinate graphics used in displays and provide technical support for teleconferences, webinars and distance-learning classes.  • Edited, copied and stored videotapes and DVDs, track inventory of equipment and order supplies.  • Diagnosed and corrected media system problems  • Switched video input sources from one camera to another  • Turned ideas into outlines, storyboards, and images IT DESK ANALYST APEX SYSTEMS, INC April 2014 to September 2016 • Answered to and performed moves, adds, and changes (mac) requests as they are submitted by end users  • Accurately document instances of desktop equipment or component failure, repair, installation, and removal  • Accurately document and update all assigned trouble tickets  • If necessary, liaised with third-party support and pc equipment vendors  • Ordered devices from carrier that are eligible for free upgrade  • Asset tagged devices and uploaded inventory quantities in system  • Processed customer orders/requests via the remedy ticketing system  • Provisioned and tested devices via the carrier, Processed life cycle refresh requests Education BACHELORS in COMMUNICATION STUDIES TOWSON UNIVERSITY May 2016 Additional Information • Proficient in Microsoft Office Word, Excel, InfoPath, Access, Outlook, PowerPoint, Microsoft Windows operating system, Mac operating system, Dell/HP & Lenovo Desktops, LaserJet Printers, Inkjet Printers, Networking, Outlook, Adobe Acrobat, Adobe Pro, ACDSee Pro 10, Zoner Photo Studio, Adobe Photoshop Elements, Corel PaintShop Pro