IT Security Analyst Intern <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Intern IT Security Specialist Baton Rouge, LA Seeking a full-time position as an Information Security Analyst. I’m hoping to utilize my current experience and to develop and grow alongside a company. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Security Analyst Intern Meridian Link (formerly CRIF Lending Solutions) - Baton Rouge, LA May 2018 to August 2018 • Identify vulnerabilities using Nessus Security Center and formulate plans for patching and system hardening  • Monitor logs and events through a SIEM to identify and respond to threats   • Create scripts to automate auditing of various systems  • Collaborate with multiple departments on projects and provide guidance on security best practices  • Provide support VPN and Mobile Device Management systems  • Process requests to modify and grant security accesses Network Engineering & Design Student Worker LSU - Baton Rouge, LA December 2013 to December 2017 ? Configure, update, and install both HP and Cisco networking switches and routers  ? Assist in the design, survey, and deployment of high-density wireless networks  ? Usage of software: openNMS, Cisco Prime, Solar Winds, IPControl, and Bluecat  Address Manager  ? Apply knowledge of IEEE standards  ? Troubleshoot layer 1-3 network issues Lifeguard CYO Aquatic Club - Baton Rouge, LA June 2012 to August 2012 Manage front desk to sign in guests  Oversee guests and ensure their safety Front Desk Receptionist Southeastern Securities, Inc. - Baton Rouge, LA June 2011 to August 2011 Transfer incoming phone calls to relevant worker  ? Perform general office and customer service duties during summer and holidays  ? Transfer incoming phone calls to relevant worker Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Louisiana State University - Baton Rouge, LA December 2017 Skills C# (1 year), CSS (1 year), HTML (4 years), JAVA (3 years), MySQL (2 years), SAS (1 year) Additional Information Currently working towards CompTIA Security +