Security & Compliance Project Manager <span class="hl">Security</span> &amp; Compliance Project Manager Security & Compliance Project Manager - Apex Systems Castle Rock, CO Motivated, reliable, and integrity driven professional veteran able to offer diverse input who  can improvise and adapt to overcome obstacles and complete tasks. Experience in audit,  information security, governance, risk, and compliance with strong writing, analytical, and  communication skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Security & Compliance Project Manager Apex Systems - Denver, CO April 2017 to Present • Assess compliance with HIPAA Security Rules utilizing NIST 800-53 Rev. 5  • Provide policy and procedure guidance to IT management, staff, and customers  • Perform risk and governance assessments on application, database, and OS/Host  layers.  • Reconcile application ownership, data usage, and status using asset management  software.  • Work with Information System owners to establish ownership and governance,  review and test controls. Corporate Staff Auditor II - IT Arrow Electronics - Englewood, CO May 2016 to April 2017 Responsible for the concurrent auditing of SOX ITGCs compliance for more than 11  domestic and international systems consisting of Oracle, Microsoft, and IBM systems.  • Consult to the IT Risk and Governance department on mapping IT security controls  to the internal security control library using the NIST Cybersecurity Framework.  • Audited several implementations and conversions of systems with financial impacts  exceeding two billion dollars.  • Assist business owners with the development and implementation of IT control  processes and procedures.  • Review of third party SOC2 reports for data security controls.  • Assisted with IT department in the implementation and administration of internal  system used to submit, track, remediate, and trend company wide IT issues and due- outs.  • Track and validate IT issues and resolution.  • Assist with the data analysis of multiple non- IT projects to include budgeting and investigative work.  720.335.7823 Mbush673@gmail.com Staff Auditor United States Army Audit Agency - Fort Carson, CO October 2014 to May 2016 Familiarity with IT Security guidance and regulations to include:  o Army (AR 25-1, 25-2, 525-27, 340-21)  o DoD (RMF, DoD 5400.11, DoDI 8500.01)  o NIST (800-53/a, 800-47, 800-66, Cybersecurity Framework),  • Conducted internal audits on IT governance, cybersecurity, service level agreements,  contract performance, and emergency management.  • Assess the implementation and deployment of the Assured Compliance Assessment  Solution (ACAS) scanning tool.  • Provided recommendations for agency wide IT functional training to upper  management focusing on information assurance and cybersecurity.  • Provided recommendations to Program Director regarding updating Cybersecurity  Army Regulations  • Received a 2015 performance award for cyber contributions to the IT audit team. Process Improvement Analyst Centura Health - Englewood, CO June 2014 to October 2014 Process Improvement  • Provided data analysis for succession planning, recruitment, and retention.  • Performed value stream and process mapping for recruitment process to identify  critical paths and lag times.  • Created training presentations for conducting data queries using internal systems.  • Created database query templates for use by process improvement personnel.  • Presented findings to upper management on process weaknesses and analysis. Education Master of Professional Accountancy in Professional Accountancy Metropolitan State University of Denver - Denver, CO May 2017 Bachelor of Science in Accountancy in Accountancy Metropolitan State University of Denver - Denver, CO December 2013 Skills access, Excel, testing, NIST SP 800-53, Teammate Audit Software, ITGC Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Rank: E-3 Certifications/Licenses Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA) February 2017 to January 2021