Cyber Security Specialist Cyber <span class="hl">Security</span> Specialist Cyber Security Specialist Los Angeles, CA I'm a Management & Tech consultant to the US government in defense, intelligence, and civil markets, & to major corporations, institutions, and non-profit orgs. As a Cyber Security Specialist, I perform assessments on Critical Digital Assets to meet Cyber Security regulations, identify and mitigate security gaps, whether technical, programmatic or organizational in nature by utilizing confidential databases, resources and NIST, NEI 08-09 & NEI 13-10. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Cyber Security Specialist Booz Allen Hamilton - Washington, DC July 2016 to Present Perform cybersecurity compliance utilizing policies and procedures per NEI 08-09, NEI 13-10, and NIST 800-53. Collaborate with the digital asset research team to conduct assessments of all Critical Digital Assets (CDAs) at a major nuclear facility in the southeast. Concluding the research and development phase of the project, we will be assisting the client incorporate the best policies and practices to keep them 100% compliant with NRC rules and regulations.. Deputy IT Portfolio Manager Booz Allen Hamilton - Washington, DC May 2016 to July 2016 Work directly with Project Managers to manage risk and quality delivery for 300 projects generating $1+ billion in revenue. Drive standardized processes and consistency across the firm; and promote leveraging and sharing of corporate resources, services, and brand. Support the development of technical solutions, approaches for new opportunities, and risk management of firm fixed price bids. Drive the implementation of Agile and the Scaled Agile Framework through the Agile Coaching team. Lead Portfolio Manager for the Financial Energy and Economic Development, Health portfolios of 150 system development and operations and maintenance (O&M) projects generating $600 million in annual revenue. Data and Reporting Analyst CEB - Washington, DC November 2014 to May 2016 Manage company participation in diagnostic survey projects of hundreds of business-to-business companies effectively provide risk analysis and develop solutions. Create insightful and specific products to meet customer needs: effectively created a budget and spend benchmark report for our members finance departments segmented by industry, revenue, and specific business models. Lead survey report generation from findings and manage team’s final product for publication and distribution to member companies. Analyze data utilizing SPSS and Excel findings, fine-tune products, and generate insights associated with CEB Finance for midsized companies. Provide consulting services at the executive level to member companies providing insight and recommendations using statistical analysis, modeling, and benchmark comparisons. Develop and enhance surveys and deliverable products to enhance strategic use of CEB products, ensuring customer satisfaction. Design Excel and VBA automation for quicker and more accurate report building, leading to better query tracking. Education Bachelor of Science in Economics Florida State University, College of Social Sciences - Tallahassee, FL December 2013 Skills Financial Analysis, Microsoft Office, Economics, Economic Research, Economic Policy, Research, Data Analysis, Monetary Policy, Econometrics, Financial Markets, Stata, SAS, Salesforce, Spanish, Microsoft Excel, PowerPoint, Analysis, Accounting, Project Management, Financial Reporting, Budgets, Spanish, Portuguese, Latin America, Investments, • Operations: Teambuilding, strategy planning, competitive analysis, conflict and problem resolution, project management, risk assessment and management (1 year), • Communications: Developing and conducting seminars, negotiation, community outreach (1 year) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/kbarona/ Additional Information PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT  • CompTIA Security + Certification  • Certified Ethical Hacker  • ICAgile Certified Professional  • Certified Business Economist for Applied Econometrics    SKILLS / AWARDS / ACTIVITIES  • Bilingual; native fluency in English and Spanish  • Bloomberg Certified and working knowledge of CAS  • Junior National Medalist; 2-time Florida Swimming State Champion, 3-time All- American