Global IT Security Analyst Global <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> To obtain a position in the career field of Information Security, where I can directly influence  and contribute to the success of the organization. I want to continue exercising and improving  my technical skills and being part of a team, further developing my entry to mid level skills  within your company. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Global IT Security Analyst August 2017 to Present Responsible for analytical operation of the security infrastructure (network and server hardening, pen test, patch management, access control over multiple  platforms and applications, network auditing).  ? Actively monitor events from intrusion detection systems and system logs and notify appropriate groups in case of threats or vulnerabilities for immediate  corrective actions.  ? Monitor security procedure requirements to ensure adherence to policy  requirements and regulatory requirements.  ? Respond to security incidents Technical Account Manager Transcom - San Antonio, TX September 2016 to September 2017 Communicates technical matters, in business terms to client services teams.  ? Builds service relationships with external clients services and hold service review  meetings; areas covered will include performance reports, service  improvements, project reports, quality and processes. Regional Site Support Technician Transcom - San Antonio, TX March 2015 to September 2017 Supported the Multiple Clients with laptop and desktop installations.  ? Maintained Lan Rm upkeep and organization.  ? Setup and maintain servers as well as routers  ? Maintain PCI Security compliance    ? IT Technician Lead at Our Lady of the Lady University  ? Deploying Images for campus resources and equipment. Tier 1 and 2 IT  customer service support. Which include but not limited to; troubleshooting  printers and other additional devices and/or equipment. Performed customer  service duties in response to work orders  ? Performed virus removal as well as re-image on both PC's and MAC desktops and laptop. Replaced computer components.  1  TAYLOR ALLAIRE 8916 DATAPOINT DR. APT 1903    CELL - 571-970-8167  EMAIL - intermilan_2007@hotmail.com    RELEVANT  COURSES:  ? Comptia CertMaster Security+ SY0-401  ? Policy Compliance Specialist Certification  ? Computer Forensics-  ? Performed, preserved, and examined digital evidence. Reporting, writing and analyzing different situations.  ?  ? Computer and Network Security-  ? Solving legal and ethical issues relating to computer security. Performed and demonstrated basic and advanced encryption and decryption. Learned  cryptographic protocols and network securities. Education Bachelors of Science in o Information Security / Information Assurance Our Lady of the Lake University - San Antonio, TX Skills FORENSICS (2 years), FTK (Less than 1 year), MALWARE (Less than 1 year), NMAP (Less than 1 year), WIRESHARK (Less than 1 year) Additional Information SKILLS: TOOLS  o FTK (Forensics Tool Kit) WireShark, HashReader, CCleaner, Malware TookKit,  Metasploitable, Nmap