Help Desk Technician Help Desk Technician Roseville, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Help Desk Technician Gap Inc. - Rocklin, CA September 2018 to April 2019 Remotely correct software, network, user, and administrative issues regarding to everyday functionality of many clothing outlet brands and the hardware/software they use.    Responsible for end-to-end resolution of all issues brought to the attention of the service desk.    Day-to-day responsibilities entail use of the Cisco Meraki Suite for networking and client analytics, Oracle Central Office for transaction verification and review, VMware's Airwatch Suite for remote device management and repair, and Service Now for end-to-end service ticket management, Mist Systems for WLAN client management, Active Directory for personnel identification and categorizing, and several others. Cook/Prep & Kitchen Maintenance Chaodown Poki - Roseville, CA April 2018 to August 2018 Prepare ingredients, dishes, maintain cleanliness and functionality of appliances and tools.  Regularly sharpened knives to the standard required for precision knife work. Cook Sonic Drive-In - Roseville, CA June 2015 to January 2018 Maintained facilities, performed everything from prepping ingredients, to cooking and preparing a wide variety of food, and serving it in very short time. Security Analyst Sacramento, CA July 2017 to August 2017 Contract work, hired to solve a hacking incident at a bank. Job included cracking encrypted files as well as password protected ones, reverse-engineering the hacker's path of entry, retrieval of the hacker's device identity, and use of server logs to efficiently write a report. IT Technician Sierra College - Rocklin, CA August 2015 to February 2016 I performed maintenance on software, hardware, upgraded outdated parts or programs, removed viruses, and set up security protocols for roughly 100 computers. Retail Sales Associate GameStop - Roseville, CA October 2015 to December 2015 Stocked shelves, worked customers through any problems, promoted sales of product. Education CCNA, CCNA Security, CCDA, and CCENT. Expected graduation 5/12/2019 Skills Microsoft office (5 years), Food Handling (5 years), System Diagnostics (3 years), Network Topology (3 years), Grill (3 years), Food Service (4 years), Fast Food (3 years), Ethical Hacking (2 years), Routing/Switching (2 years), Cisco Meraki Suite (2 years), Helpdesk Support (2 years), Tech Support (4 years), Service Desk (2 years), Desktop Support (3 years), Help Desk (2 years), Active Directory (1 year) Certifications/Licenses Food Handler Assessments Technical Support Skills — Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/jukttocmkhge3pgd Basic Computer Skills — Highly Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/cxwvfscl9-p22z9z Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.