Lead Systems Security Analyst Lead Systems <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Lead Security Analyst Wharton, TX I am seeking a challenging career in the field of Information Technology. I have experience working in several electronics and computer based fields and have acquired a broad understanding of many computer based systems that we interact with today. I am looking to find a career that not only puts these skills to use but opens up the opportunity for more experience, learning, and improvement. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Systems Security Analyst DOSArrest Internet Security - Vancouver, BC 2015 to Present Protection of client digital information and web servers. Management of Naxsi Web application firewall for web servers. Performing vulnerability scans and penetration testing of client systems. Lead and work closely with a team monitoring traffic in a multinational reverse proxy BGP environment detecting, intercepting and mitigating attacks on client systems. City Agent IPG Technical - Vancouver, BC June 2012 to June 2012 Canada  Lead projects for Laptop and Tablet computers. Instructed team on repair techniques for new tablets as well as providing written test and repair procedures for all Geek Squad repair facilities. Implemented new flow procedures to balance store and customer units. Designed and implemented network solutions for various departments in the facility. Designed a new imaging and support system for City of Surrey schools. IT Technician Voestalpine Nortrak - Vancouver, BC July 2011 to July 2011 Canada  Greatly increasing current and future productivity by updating and replacing computer systems, mapping and overhauling wired network infrastructure. Designing and implementing a modern and comprehensive controller based wireless network, and network based camera system. Introducing research into wireless barcode scanners and appliances to improve future operations. Electronics Technician Ryzex - Bellingham, WA June 2009 to June 2009 United States  Problem solving for repair procedures, developing new procedures as new products became available, educated repair staff on new procedures and changes in current procedures. Worked with a team on advanced component repairs, and finding solutions to unique situations. Double Agent Geek Squad - Baltimore, MD August 2006 to August 2006 United States  Expanded customer base with excellent and fast service in computer and electronics repair and upgrades, computer and network installation, and reliable education on our products. Improved working conditions with organization of tech room and streamlining of bench procedures in a new store. Submarine Fire Control Technician US Navy - USS Montpelier - Norfolk, VA 2003 to December 2003 Demonstrated excellent teamwork skills during the overhaul and sea tests of the USS Montpelier, working with a team to reduce time required to complete the overhaul and finishing ahead of schedule.    Skills  • Networking (IPv4 and IPv6) and hardware skillset with experience in Cisco, Juniper, and Brocade equipment  • Circuit board level repair skills with ability to read electronic schematics Education Cybersecurity and Information Assurance Western Governors University - Houston, TX November 2017 to Present Associate in Computer Information Systems Kwantlen Polytechnic University May 2012 Skills System Analyst, Help Desk, Networking, Cisco, Juniper, Brocade, Microsoft, Linux, Active Directory, security, HTML, access, testing, Microsoft Office, SQL, training, Nginx (4 years) Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: FT3 Assessments Technical Support — Expert April 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/vzm4utnxfrcnabhn Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.