Network and IT Specialist Network and <span class="hl">IT</span> Specialist Network and IT Specialist - Northeastern University Boston, MA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network and IT Specialist Northeastern University - Boston, MA January 2016 to June 2017 Analyze network data to determine network usage, disk space availability, server function and configure security  settings/access for individual and groups.  • Configure LAN routers and equipment, define parameters for installation and testing of hub, routers, and switches.  Evaluate their performance, identify and troubleshoot issues. Infrastructure and Security Engineer Ipswitch, Inc - Boston, MA June 2016 to December 2016 ? Used AWS services like EC2, VPC, ELB, S3 to Design and support virtualized training environments to experiment with  Ipswitch’s Network monitoring application.  ? Tested the deployed instance and network connectivity using AWS. Harnessed Puppet to configure the environment,  manage access control, initialize the repositories and automate the functions of the servers. This project saved the turnaround time of lab setup by 75 percent.  ? Built a Read-only domain controller in the perimeter network, integrated RODC and LDAP with service-now for data  population, login and authentication. This project aimed to make the network more secure by deploying RODC.  ? Designed, Deployed, Monitored Windows and UNIX / Linux Virtual machines for performance issues and stability.  ? Developed the infrastructure for and installed services like “Service-now”, managed and supported them.  ? Generated weekly security scan reports using Nessus, identified vulnerabilities and remediated them.  ? Increased efficiency by automating system admin tasks using PowerShell, Bash, and Python by up to 30 percent.  Client-Server Architecture and Automation script, Northeastern University May ‘16  ? Configured Linux machines as DHCP server (v4 & v6), DNS Master-Slave server (Bind9) supporting IPV4 & IPv6, Web  Server (Apace2), Firewall, Backup, VPN to integrate them into an office network.  ? Developed a user-friendly interactive automation script in the REHL to test files using Bash, SED, and REGEX.  Implemented IP validation and optimized the script to take valid entries and displayed error for wrong values.  ? Developed a client script using Python to crawl through over 10000 web pages to search 5 secret flags located at  various locations with the time of 2-3 minutes to crawl through all pages. Product Technical Analyst Zycus InfoTech PVT. Limited - Mumbai, Maharashtra June 2014 to July 2015 Interacted with product management team to collaborate with customers, analysts, and partners to define product  strategy and roadmap by analyzing market requirements.  • Provided proactive software maintenance support to identify potential issues such as users of some country could  not login to the tool, server of a company isn't responding, server overload. Education M.S. in Computer Systems and Networks Northeastern University - Boston, MA July 2017 B.S. in Electronics and Telecommunication University of Mumbai - Mumbai, Maharashtra May 2014 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Tools: Cisco Packet Tracer, Wireshark, VMware, NS3, Matlab, Nmap, Nessus, Metasploit, FTK  Languages: Python, Perl, Bash scripting  Networking: DNS, DHCP, HTTP, FTP, SSH, TCP/IP, UDP IPv4, RIP,  Protocols DNSSEC, SFTP, HTTPS, SSL, IPSEC  Operating systems: Windows, Linux/Unix