Information Security Analyst Information <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Specialist Suitland, MD To obtain a position back in an organization that will provide stability, training, challenge, and professional growth and to keep up the maintenance of telephone, data networks and desktop support. Work Experience Information Security Analyst DHS United States Citizen& Immigration Services July 2013 to Present • Provide IT information and assistance to customers and clients , regarding products and services  • Focusing on tasks and responsibilities associated with, but   not limited to, contract content, development/writing, and Vendor   Management, Project Management and Security Audits.   • reviewing routine IT data management  • Attending presentations and learning education to various levels of Management.   • Creating and operating and maintain management reporting on Projects   or tasks.   • Troubleshooting assistance and resolving their issues  • Gathering and analyzing information for defining requirements,   specifications and issues to support the development of new   policies, standards and procedures or update existing ones.   • Performing and overseeing basic to complex security analysis, standards   design, and security gap analysis.   • Demonstrating attention to details when performing work task for security personnel managers that works with Information Technology Management IT Support Specialist DHS United States Secret Service - Washington, DC March 2012 to September 2012 • Dealing with customers and co-workers with working progress and listening to others as they share their thoughts and concerns and responding appropriately to questions comments or inquires, while following standard procedures.   • Prepared concise and easily understood written explanations as to disallowances and requests for additional information or documentation.  • Maintained and reconciled accounts. Gathered relevant information, data and providing this information to the supervisor; reviewing, editing and disseminating written reports  • orally expressing information to individuals or groups effectively  • Responded to requests for information from vendors, employees and management concerning IT inventory payments.  • Providing exceptional customer service and support to the clients  • Responsibilities include: Providing end-user support services, and solve problem resolution via telephone, remote desktop connection, and/or visits to user locations  • Exhibiting ownership and timely resolution of all incident tickets and change orders  • Interacting directly with other IT groups to determine the proper remediation for an issue; setting-up and quality assurance testing of new hardware and software for existing and new end-users   • Showing strong communication and interpersonal skills.   • Experience implementing, maintaining and supporting Windows operating systems and Microsoft Office applications.   • Technical experience configuring and supporting workstations, laptops, printers, and related equipment. IT Assistant Department of Defense, Washington, DC June 2009 to February 2012 • Tracked email, created excels spreadsheets and word documents.   • Active Directory administration (create/modify/delete/unlock user accounts).  • Prepare all required documentation indicating system functionality.  • User account creation, backup/restoring data, and providing general support to system users  • Microsoft Outlook configuration and troubleshooting.   • Coordinates account creation, provisioning and deactivation.  • Extensive usage of Remote Access Tools, and ticketing system.  • Provided password help with workers who locked themselves out of computer or database.  • Provided support to team by typing letters and converting documents into photocopies.   • Provide one-on-one end-user problem resolution over the phone for District approved Personal Computer (PC) software.  • Delivers, tags, sets up, and assists in the configuration of end-user PC desktop hardware, software and peripherals. Proofread, high volume scanning and imaging electronic documents and uploading documents to website.  • Manage IT manager travel arrangements.  • Prepare outgoing mail for UPS. FED. EX overnight delivers.  • Answer incoming calls and requests, troubleshoot, solve problems and provide resolution to supported users within the contracted scope of support for each client. Document all case information into the Clarify Case Resolution System.   • Follow through with users whose issues are not closed on initial contact, which may include additional communication to the user, a supervisor, or other support areas within the team; i.e. Hardware Liaison, Technical Liaison, etc. IT Security Assistant DHS FEMA, Washington, DC December 2009 to March 2010 • Entered confidential data into Access database for tracking.  • Preformed query test and verified database information.  • Java Programming   • Stock paper and toner inside of printer for employee's usage.  • Typed and verified Government CPARS system then scanned documents for FEMA da-tabase.  • Diagnoses and resolves end-user network or local printer problems, PC hardware problems and mainframe, e-mail, Internet, dial-in, and local-area network access problems.  • Coordinates timely repair of PC computer equipment covered by third-party vendor maintenance agreements.  • Tracked and updated scanned document into historical files.   • Process, sort and deliver mail; prepare mail and packages for shipment; sort interoffice and regular mail by department; log and distribute overnight packages; maintain mailroom supply inventories; and organize and maintain the mailroom. Operate mailroom equipment such as postage meters, mail sorting machines, scanners, mail sealers, envelope openers, fold-and-insert machines and labeling machines.  • Protecting technical, complex, sensitive and classified information via computer equipment.  • Providing technical, support and assisted in preparing and implementing policies  • Incumbent evaluated adequacy and developed new and revised information security polices, standards, and procedural guidance and support for the protection of information technology systems.   • Working closely with program and project activities to develop safeguards for the com-puters that are connected to networks.   • Reviewing and analyzing technical aspects of proposals and integrity.   • Keeping abreast of the latest developments and initiatives in the computer security arena, information security policy issues, deficiencies, and problem areas through review and analyses of reports, contacts, surveys, inspections and facility reviews. Incumbent reviews operational and technical security aspects associated with specific sites and facilities to determine vulnerability and threat. Education production and engineering Suitland High School June 2003 to January 2008 Prince George's Community College January 2004 to June 2006 BS in Cyber Security University of Maryland University College 2009 Additional Information SKILLS: Microsoft Office, Lotus, HP Scanner, Cisco Systems, Multi-line phone system, Access Database, Phone Support-MS Office, Windows XP, Customer Service, Windows 7, BMC R.A.R.S ( Remedy Action Request System) Web Help Desk , Plain Ticket,