Electrical Apprentice Electrical Apprentice Tier 3 Technician - ICS Advanced Technologies Ames, IA I desire to gain real world, high level experience; while working along-side innovative professionals to build my skills and future career. Work Experience Electrical Apprentice THOMPSON ELECTRIC - Ames, IA September 2018 to Present Tier 3 Technical Support / Specialty Systems Technician ICS Advanced Technologies - Ames, IA October 2015 to August 2018 Floor leader, video headend specialist, and assistant to the support supervisor.  Worked in the support office for 2 years. Gained a vast knowledge of networking, trouble shooting, team leading, and above all, professionalism both over the phone and in person. Dealt with end users all the way up to property managers.    Moved up to the security and AV department as a specialty field technician. Worked under the supervisor and other high leveled professionals. Performed maintenance and installation of equipment ranging from security cameras and door access, to commercial grade speakers. Learned a vast knowledge of wire management, proper labeling of installed equipment, wire terminating and splicing, and above all, how to present myself in a professional manner on commercial construction sites. It Security Analyst Voya Financial inc, Des July 2015 to September 2015 Followed standard documentation to process audit and security report tickets. Worked with quality control assessments, specifically description failures. Updated extracts ran off of the servers with notes from the fulfillment team. Assigned upper level request tickets to the proper team to be completed. Internship, Cedar Rapids Sequel Database November 2014 to May 2015 IT/Web Development Intern  . Worked in a team of more experienced professionals to do live web development for the PerfectgGame.org website. Formatted and edited pages, for example: if a tournament was a one day tournament the date would display 6/23-6/23. I had to find the query used to pull this information from the database and fix it.Created different pages and functions available for customers and employees to utilize the entire PG website and database. Created the User Container (Recent College Commitments) positioned on the front page of the website. This container used a repeater to access the 10 most recent college commits from the database and display them in the container.  . Also got my first look at SQL and picked it up fast. Within a few months I was writing basic queries on my own. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Coe College - Cedar Rapids, IA May 2015 Gilbert Senior HS - Gilbert, IA May 2011 Skills Restoration, Low Voltage Certifications/Licenses Dish Network Smartbox Certified May 2017 to Present Attended Dish Summit while getting certified just before hand. Additional Information Eclipse, MS Office Winbox, SSH/putty, VLC multimedia    Relevant Courses from my College Experience:    Comp Org/Operating Systems  • Topics include the organization and structure of major hardware components. Understanding the mechanics of information transfer and control, and the fundamentals of logic design  Data Structures and Algorithms  • Topics include abstract data types, recursive algorithms, complexity analysis, sorting & searching, and problem solving strategies.  Advanced Object Oriented Programming  • Topics include more in depth study of classes and data abstraction in the design and implementation of software systems.  Discrete Structures  • Topics include binary-related number systems and internal representation of numbers, recursion and recurrence relations, analysis of algorithms, graphs and trees, logic circuits and simple automata.