Associate Technology Risk Analyst Associate Technology Risk <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Associate Technology Risk Analyst - Fidelity Investments Durham, NC Work Experience Associate Technology Risk Analyst Fidelity Investments July 2010 to Present Give support to individual associates and users with access related issues via departmental hotline, HP Service Manager and XTRAC problem management queues.  • Insure user access requests in all support queues for over 400 applications and databases to ensure request are completed within the documented Service Level Agreement(s).  • Support PWI by providing access administration across multiple platforms (e.g. Mainframe-Top Secret, Sybase application, Oracle, client-server & web-based).  • Work with business partners to maintain access controls to ensure access is properly administered and quality customer service.  • Provide access administration and ongoing support to external participants via Fidelity Plan Sponsor Webstation and Fidelity eWorkplace applications.  • Work with Novell Secure Single Sign-On and Active Directory in regards to New  Investor Centers Openings and Investor Center troubleshooting for all 170 investor centers and New Hire classes for new associates.  • Create and maintain documentation for access administration, policies, and procedures.  • Adhere to Fidelity Investments/PWI Information Security policies and guidelines pertaining to access administration. Technical Support Specialist (Blues) International Business Machines (IBM) November 2009 to July 2010 Maintained the Anti-Virus and Personal Firewall infrastructure for specified IBM clients.  • Provided 3rd level expertise to support groups and clients' to assist and resolve any non-standard anti-virus issue using Symantec EndPoint Protection, TrendMicro, and McAfee ePO.  • Responded to, and remediated virus infections and/or outbreaks in the clients' environment.  • Granted URL filtering support to clients' regarding breaks fixes, http/https permissions, and policy changes to their mainframe and users using Websense, Surf Control, and NiSource software.  • Monitored the AV Consol and provided current reports to System Administrator and Desktop Support Personnel. INTERN, IT Compliance, Security Sirius-XM Satellite Radio 2008 to 2008 and Fraud Prevention Analyst  (Jun. 2008 - Aug. 2008)  • Closed and resolved Remedy help desk tickets for employee.  • Worked within the Firewall to identify log-in addresses and granted access for over 60,000 users.  • Assisted with the completion of forms related to the internal processes for Sarbanes Oxley compliance.  • Attended weekly staff meetings, company-wide conference calls, and product demonstrations.  • Performed daily organizational duties as assigned or required by the XM Satellite Radio IT Compliance team.  • Worked with company during the merger with Sirius Satellite Radio in the Summer '08. Education B.S. in Computer Information Systems Sciences Virginia State University - Petersburg, VA May 2009 Skills System Administration, Symantec, McAfee ePO, Oracle Enterprise Manager, Database Administration, Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Word, Microsoft Access, Microsoft Powerpoint, Active Directory, Java, Additional Information Job Skills:  • Experience in provisioning and maintenance of Oracle 10G, Oracle E-Business Suites, and Oracle Enterprise Manager Applications  • Proficient in Microsoft Office Suite  • Classroom experience programming of Java and C++ programming languages  • Excellent Personal, Interpersonal, and Written Communication skills  • Experience in information security pertaining to firewalls, IPs, malware & anti-virus defense, and URL filtering  • Ability to pay attention to detail  • Adaptability to difficult situations and changes within a organization  • Experience conducting and participating in the interviewing process of potential candidates for employment opportunities