Tier II IT Support Technician Tier II <span class="hl">IT</span> Support Technician Tier II IT Support Technician - DATUM TECHNOLOGIES Tavares, FL Highly motivated Security professional, with a passion for Security and IT Systems. Consistently study trade  magazines and subscribes to field related forums, such as Krebsonsecurity.com. Superior interpersonal  and customer service skills, demonstrated by a consistent aptitude for translating technological terms and  concepts to end users in a clear, concise, and completely understandable manner. Proven by numerous  awards and commendations received during my professional career. Analytical minded, confident and  goal-oriented. After the great recession I stepped away from retail management to reeducate myself and  study my passion in computer sciences.    CAREER QUALIFICATIONS  Technology    • Strong analytical skills in relation to computer software, programs, hardware, and systems.  • Performed troubleshooting, installations, upgrades, performance tests, networking, as well as  provided training and instructional help for customers and coworkers.  • Received continual training as well as personal research on an ongoing basis to keep current  knowledge of new technologies.  • First-hand experience with all IT components, including network support, telecommunications,  information data security, installation of software, emailing systems.  • Certified in the use of Cisco Advance Malware Protection and LogRhythm Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Tier II IT Support Technician DATUM TECHNOLOGIES - Sarasota, FL 2017 to Present Sarasota, FL 2017 - Present  Restaurant focused IT Services Company. We provide partial or completely outsourced IT at both the restaurant unit and corporate level.    Tier II IT Support Technician  • Troubleshooting User issues  • Supporting all systems, hardware, and telecom  • Providing hardware and application support  • New User Account creation and management  • Software installation and upgrade  • New equipment installation and upgrade  • Managed Ticket Queue supporting quicker resolution Enterprise Cyber Security Analyst ADVENTIST HEALTH SYSTEMS - Altamonte Springs, FL 2016 to 2017 Altamonte Springs, FL 2016 - 2017  Parent company of Florida Hospital, a faith based health care organization.    Enterprise Cyber Security Analyst  • Monitor Cisco Advanced Threat Analytics for potential threat intel and work to remediate  • Manage the SIEM, LogRhythm (Ingest new log sources, perform upgrades, daily heartbeat actions)  • Administer Cisco Advance Malware Protection (scan systems, create policies, maintain grouping)  • Assisted in Incident Response  • Provided 24/7 on-call support as part of rotation  • Studied threat intel to be mindful of potential threats not yet identified  • Investigated potentially malicious emails forwarded to my team, and remediation if found to be  malicious  • Responded to tickets from our Service Management System, ServiceNow  • Worked with vendors to support our systems Support Center Specialist FLORIDA HOSPITAL - Orlando, FL 2013 to 2016 Orlando, FL 2013 - 2016  Florida Hospital is one of the country's largest not-for-profit health care providers with 22 campuses serving  communities throughout Florida. For more than 100 years, we have been profoundly committed to those  who seek our care.    Support Center Specialist  • Assists users with systems issues and troubleshooting  • Supporting all systems, hardware, and telecom  • Delegate issues beyond scope to appropriate MIS team for resolution  • Maintained high level of performance metrics  • Trained new employees  • Support coworkers by being a go to source for information  • Demonstrated exceptional customer service due to high satisfaction scores and numerous  customer compliments  • Received MIS Employee of the Month April 2016 Education B.A.S. in Information Systems and Cybersecurity ITT Technical Institute - Lake Mary, FL September 2009 to June 2013 Skills CUSTOMER SERVICE (3 years), RECEPTIONIST (3 years), RETAIL SALES (3 years), CISCO (1 year), MALWARE (1 year) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/kareemmunroe Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Networking: TCP/IP & LAN/WAN Protocols, Network and Systems Management, Network  Development, Structured Cabling    Operating Systems: Windows 98/2000/XP/Vista/Windows 7/Windows 8/Windows 10/Windows Server  2003/2008/2012/Mac OS/Linux/Cisco IOS    Technical Support: Tier 1 and 2, Troubleshoot Hardware/Software, Troubleshoot Network  Customer Service Connectivity, Software Installation Support, Remote Access    Hardware: Palm/Handheld/Wireless Devices, Assemble/Disassemble PC's, Install,  Configure, Troubleshoot and Repair. Installation, Testing and Troubleshooting of  Cabling    Software: MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Access, Outlook, Publisher, Visio, Exchange,  VMware. Install, Configure and Troubleshoot    Development: SQL Database, Python Coding    SIEM: LogRhythm (certified)    Cisco: Advanced Malware Protection (certified), Advanced Threat Analytics  Kareem Munroe  Kmunroe110@hotmail.com M (407)399 - 0364