Oracle DBA Oracle DBA Oracle DBA - Wells Fargo Bank Houston, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle DBA Wells Fargo Bank - Houston, TX June 2017 to Present • Oracle DBA Queue Management and 24/7 On-Call rotation support.  • Perform health checks and proactive monitoring using Oracle Enterprise Manager/Grid Control.  • Setup Oracle Enterprise Manager (Grid Control & Cloud Control) 10g/11g/12c for monitoring/performance tuning and a complete range of Oracle DBA activities including monitoring alert logs, trace files, troubleshooting production issues.  • Support Development Teams by implementing database objects in TEST/STG/UAT/PROD.  • Performance tuning using various aspects of the Database utilities like Stats-pack, Automated Workload Repository (AWR) and Automatic Database Diagnostics Monitor (ADDM).  • Good Knowledge in Installing, Upgrading and Configuring Oracle Enterprise Edition.  • Upgrade Oracle 11g to 12c multitenant Container and decommission legacy databases.  • Database monitoring, tuning, troubleshooting, managing database security, roles, and profiles, create, setup, and respond to alerts. As well as analyze performance data and recommend solutions.  • Work with the application team to understand the application's data, and then determine the appropriate physical structure. Participate in application design and development.  • Manage the queue clearing open and unassigned Service Requests (SR), Incident Request (IR), Change Request (CR) and Manual Activities (MA).  • Basic scripting Edit scripts for data-pump jobs, backup and recovery and database checks.  • Schedule Physical backups (hot & cold) and monitor scheduled jobs. Database Analyst Walmart Technology - Houston, TX December 2015 to June 2017 • Provided full technical support to various application teams before databases went to Production.  • Tested and implemented different physical and logical backup and Recovery methods like point in time, media recovery, full/partial and export/import.  • Knowledge of Oracle Architecture, SGA, PGA, Listener, V$ & DBA views.  • Installed and patched databases on a quarterly basis as well as update O-patch Installer.  • Managed Database Listener including starting, stopping and checking the listener status.  • Knowledge of RAC installation, maintenance and administration.  • Responsible for managing 24/7 availability of Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) database through day-to-day support.  • Assist with Oracle Linux non-production and production Server Maintenance.  • Used OEM to Monitor and set alerts on production targets.  • Involved in applying patches as per the requirements of the client and upgrade Oracle and DBMS software under Oracle.  • Worked on OEM GC 12c/11g, scheduling and troubleshooting OEM jobs and Scheduling Backup Jobs. Jr. IT Security Analyst Texas Star - Galveston, TX May 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed a work plan detailing the tasks and effort required to achieve the project scope.  • Develop, reviewed and updated Information Security System Policies, established security baselines.  • Perform vulnerability scanning with the support of Nessus scanning tool to detect potential risks on a single or multiple asset across the enterprise network.  • Update IT security policies, procedures, standards, and guidelines according to department and federal requirements.  • Perform risk assessments, help review and update, Plans of Action and Milestones.  • Monitor controls post authorization to ensure constant compliance with the security requirements.  • Worked with SMEs to identify the best approach to prevent data-loss in the future. Education Bsc. in Economics University of Buea 2012 Skills Oracle Database, Oracle Dba Military Service Branch: ARMY Service Country: United States Rank: SPC January 2015 to Present Awards Army Comendation Award 2019-03 Outstanding performance in my duties as a Soldier