System Engineer System Engineer System Engineer - Defense Information Systems Agency Glen Burnie, MD Diligent Information Technology Specialist proficient in computer network defense, endpoint and intrusion analysis. Adept at finding, tracking, analyzing, identifying and remediating computers security events. Specialized in monitoring network security, software installation and working to prevent cyber-attacks especially in business and corporate settings. Ability to work collaboratively and effectively with a wide range of individuals including technical and non-technical staff. Excellent communication and presentation capabilities. Effective manager and team player.    Core Qualifications    • Identify potential security risks  • Attention to Detail  • Problem Solving  • Oral and written communications skills  • Knowledge of C, MATLAB, Python, Linux CentOS, Verilog, MySQL.  • Strong customer service orientation  • Microsoft Server Administration  • Microsoft Office Suite  • Authorized to work in the US for any employer.  • Ability to work with a core team in a fast-paced environment  • Enthusiasm and the ability to thrive in an atmosphere of constant change.  • Ability to work and contribute in a team environment.  • Ability to work a flexible schedule to meet the needs of the business.  • Excellent time management skills required.  • Ability to work evening and weekend hours Work Experience System Engineer Defense Information Systems Agency - Fort Meade, MD January 2019 to Present • Maintained and monitor systems such as HBSS, and ACAS.  • Installed and deployed Tanium Servers and modules to allow monitoring and asset visibility across DoD particularly 4th Estate agencies.  • Conducted vulnerability assessment using Nessus of other systems including endpoint devices.  • Performed database and tools quality assurance testing on a regular basis and as needed.  • Prepared and reviewed configuration item state documentation.  • Assisted in developing concept of operation and test plans for new systems or tools deployed within the agency.  • Assisted in planning, testing, assembling, installing, and documenting equipment and systems.  • Conducted STIG implementation on various Operation Systems.  • Installed and deployed Microsoft SCCM. IT Specialist SYSANALYSIS Defense Information Systems Agency - Fort Meade, MD January 2018 to January 2019 • Expressed information to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information. Made clear and convincing oral presentations; listened to others, attended to nonverbal cues, and responded appropriately.  • Worked with clients and customers to assess their needs, provided information or assistance, resolved their problems, or satisfied their expectations; knew about available products and services; provided quality products and services.  • Identified problems; determined accuracy and relevance of information; used sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations IT Support Desktop Marine Corps Base Quantico - Quantico, VA October 2017 to December 2017 • Installed / Deinstalled more than 300 computers  • Setup / breakdown staging area  • Performed more than 500 Windows 7 upgrades to Windows 10.  • Operated more than 670 backups of user data  • Completed 700 PC Refresh  • Reported escalation of unresolved issues and confirmation of functionality and resolution of technical and non-technical issues during deployment. Information Security Analyst Naval Surface Warfare, U.S. Navy - Bethesda, MD October 2016 to September 2017 • Operated 24 x 7 Internet Security Surveillance  • Handled the tasks of diagnosing and resolving technical problems in internal resources  • Planned as well as prepares detail practices and procedures on various technical processes  • Designed and tests vulnerabilities as well as conducts research in areas of information system and network security.  • Analyzed security incidents as well as liaise with customers on security instructions  • Planned Incident responses  • Formulated defense in depth as means of prevention  • Managed patch and vulnerability mitigation  • Provided level II and III helpdesk support as needed to staff of more than 550, solving 100% technical issues. IT Security Specialist Camp Lemonnier, U.S. Navy June 2015 to July 2016 • Drafted technical manuals, installation manuals, installation progress updates, and incident response plans in order to enhance system security documentation; create required system compliance reports and information requests.  • Provided up to ten on-site server maintenance visits on a monthly basis, troubleshooting various technical problems and performing operating system administration with Linux-based computer systems  • Conducted risk assessments and collaborate with clients to provide recommendations regarding critical infrastructure and network security operations enhancements. Cyber Security Analyst Estime Enterprises Inc - Lanham, MD October 2014 to May 2015 • Prepared daily weekly and monthly database security reports.  • Discussed cyber security efforts with management.  • Purchased new security software and made update recommendation  • Updated cyber security protocol and developed effective training procedures.  • Educated management on how to prevent or minimize cyber security attacks  • Ensured compliance with internal and external email safety standards  • Recommended software updates.  • Updated security software to prevent database security threats  • Implemented system recovery procedures to minimize losses should an attack occurs Education Master of Science in Cybersecurity Technology University of Maryland University College 2019 Bachelor of Science in Computer Network & Cyber Security, MD University of Maryland University College 2017 Skills AWS, Active Directory, Vmware, System Administrator, Linux, DNS, SCCM, Cisco Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: E-5 Certifications/Licenses A valid IT Specialist certification