Network Engineer Network Engineer Network Engineer - Urgent Technical Solutions LLC Apollo Beach, FL I am Cisco Certified. I am a certified IT professional with an active interim Secret Security Clearance. I have DOD experience. I have my CCENT "Cisco Certified Entry Level technician", A+, Network +, Security+ and the Server+ certifications. I am certified as a Network Infrastructure Professional, IT Operations Specialist and Secure Infrastructure Specialist. I am experienced with configuring routing protocols EIGRP and OSPF. I also have experience with configuring VLANS and enable port- security to secure networks. I have 6 years of experience in the IT field and I am ambitious to continue to learn and grow as an IT expert. I work well with others and I have a never stop mentality until the job is complete. Work Experience Network Engineer Urgent Technical Solutions LLC - Tampa, FL May 2018 to Present • Responsible for the IT front end update of two home depots, "ran all cable runs and punch them into the patch panel and then used patch cables to connect the runs to the switch.  • Upgrade 6 Panda Express restaurants, "Ip phones, cradle point and DVR system".  • Update the IOS of a router and switch for a Johnson & Johnson using a TFTP server.  • Configure router and switches.  • Site surveys.  • Trouble-shoot routers and switches.  • Run cable.  • Terminate RJ-45 cable.  • Data transfers.  • Configure firewall rules.  • Trouble-shoot display menus.  • Configuring routers and switches.  • Configuring VOIP phones.  • Configuring routers with OSPF and EIGRP.  • Management a network using Active Directory.    Albany Logistics Marine Base; Albany, GA IT Security Tech January 2018 to May 2018 • Flash bios in Lenovo, Dell and HP Pc's.  • Up-grade the operating systems from windows 7 to windows 10.  • Add assets to the domain.  • Trouble-Shoot.  • Upload software.  • Set rules in Active Directory.  • Data transfers. IT Security Tech/ Analyst Quantico Marine Base - Quantico, VA October 2017 to December 2017 • Imaging computers.  • Wiping computers.  • Flashing the bios.  • Refreshing computers with windows 10.  • Trouble-Shooting computers.  • Data transfers  • Adding security features IT Analyst/Engineer Georgia Electric - Atlanta, GA June 2017 to July 2017 • Perform hard drive wipes.  • Upload images on new laptops and Desktops.  • Perform data transfers.  • Respond to tickets.  • Modeling and simulating embedded software/analytics.  • Understanding of software/system engineering product development.  • Using simulation tools. IT Field Technician Hilldrup - Atlanta, GA July 2016 to May 2017 • Responsible for breaking down entire computer stations, including docking stations, phone lines and printers.  • Installing operating systems and software.  • Trouble-Shooting systems and removing malfunctioning hardware.  • Calibrate hardware.  • Trouble-Shooting, analyzing and repairing problems of computer elements such as desktop computers, laptops and printers. IT Administrator JODY JONES DDS - Nashville, TN August 2014 to January 2016 • Troubleshot computers and printers.  • Assembling the network; "routers, switches, firewall, etc.  • Securing the network.  • Determine and put the rules into the firewall.  • Perform data transfers.  • Replaced hardware that was malfunctioning.  • Defragged drives. Leadership and Organizational Effectiveness Internship JODY JONES DDS - Nashville, TN January 2008 to May 2008 • Developed organizational change management strategies.  • Designed an employee satisfaction program to increase individual productivity.  • Developed strategies to enhance more effective working relationships with the CEO and employees.  • Improved capital budgeting decisions with project analysis pertaining to initial cash outflow, operating cash inflows, net present value and risk analysis. Education Bachelor of Science in Human and Organizational Development Vanderbilt University - Nashville, TN May 2008 A+ Certification Interactive College of Technology Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, DHCP, EIGRP, LAN/WAN, OSPF, FIREWALLS, ROUTING PROTOCOLS, SECURITY, NESSUS, LAN, PRINTERS, SCANNER, SOFTWARE TESTING, Cisco Additional Information SKILLS:    • Troubleshooting computers and printers.  • Troubleshooting remotely, "portal or RDP.  • Securing a network.  • Assembling networks, "routers switches, firewalls", etc.  • Valid driver's license.  • Utilize assimilation tools.  • Able to lift up to 100 pounds.  • Data Transfers.  • Organized.  • Performing wipes and images.  • Software Testing/Evaluation  • Secure data through the Active Directory.  • Configure LAN/WAN networks.  • Setting rules in the Active Directory.  • Configuring and arranging servers and switches.  • Manage assets in an enterprise network.  • Nessus vulnerability scanner.  • Configuring VLANS.  • Configuring ACL's  • Configuring DHCP pool within the network range.    • Configuring Vlans.  • Configuring Port- Security.  • Configuring routing protocols OSPF, RIP and EIGRP.