Security Risk Assessment & Compliance Analyst <span class="hl">Security</span> Risk Assessment &amp; Compliance <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Security Risk Assessment & Compliance Analyst - Global Control Solutions Inc Bronx, NY A highly motivated Security Risk Assessment Professional with about 4 years' experience in Security Control  Assessment (SCA), Certification & Authorization, Information System Security Monitoring and Auditing, Risk Assessments, and Developing Security Policies and Procedures with reference to NIST Standards and guidelines, Fisma, Hipaa and PCI DSS. Work Experience Security Risk Assessment & Compliance Analyst Global Control Solutions Inc - Jersey City, NJ July 2017 to Present • Assessment Kickoff meeting where the clients stakeholders and the contractors are briefed about the assessment which is about to initiate.  • Preparing the PBC List pertaining to potential system(s) that will be tested.  • Responsible for ensuring that Security Authorization packages such as System Security Plan (SSP), Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&M), Security Assessment Report (SAR) are maintained reviewed and  updated in accordance to NIST guidelines.  • FISMA compliant, which involved making sure their C&A packages, remain current and have been reviewed  in the last one-year.  • Developed and maintain Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&MS) of all accepted risks upon completing  of systems (C&A).  • Developed the Security Assessment Plan (SAP) after the Boundary Scope Memorandum (BSM) is completed.  • Creation of the Test cases, which involves using NIST 800- 53A in testing, Interviewing and Examining, selected controls.  • Using the risk determination table in NIST 80-30 to determine the level of weakness which is then documented  in the Security Assessment Report (SAR)  • Monitor controls post authorization to ensure continuous compliance with the security requirements. Information Security Risk Analyst NetServices, LLC - Clinton, MD July 2016 to July 2017 • Generated SSP using Cyber Security Assessment and Management (CSAM) tool  • Applied appropriate security control for federal information system using NIST 800-37, NIST 800-53 rev 4, FIPS 199  • Reviewing System Security Plans (SSP) with NIST 800-53 (rev 4 ) along with NIST 800 -18  • Updating Boundary Scope Memorandum (BSM), Configuration Management Plan (CMP), Information, Security Contingency Planning, (ISCP), Business Impact Analysis (BIA)  • Collaborated with the Security Authorization Managers (SAM) in achieving Security Objectives Junior IT Security Analyst Edlab, Columbia University - New York, NY June 2015 to July 2016 • Perform FERPA compliance reviews in accordance with accepted security standards  • Performs Information Security assessments and report control issues on IT assets and processes not in line with FERPA, University's and State standards  • Conducted security disaster recovery testing and provided recommendation on area of improvement  based on business need  • Analyzed infrastructure log sources including DNS, IPS/ids, firewall and proxy for effective alerting and reporting  • Continuous monitoring activities and facilitation of Security Control Assessment  • Determining risk levels prior to documentation in the Security Assessment Report (SAR). Help Desk Specialist City University of New York, Hunter College - New York, NY November 2014 to June 2015 • Diagnosed and troubleshoot students' issues with respect to operating systems and network connectivity.  • Helped students troubleshoot computer, printer and scanning issues.  • Installing and configuring software operating systems and applications.  • Reporting security incidents and executing corrective security procedures.  • Compiled reports to track students, computer lab personnel performance and adherence to established  services-level targets (tickets). Stock Loan Analyst JPMorgan Chase - New York, NY July 2014 to August 2014 Conducted research, writing and development of reports on current events for ongoing projects in the Stock  Loan Division.  • Reviewed and assessed company financial performance against projections and identify areas requiring improvement.  • Prepared daily reports on stock loan's P&L and aided in recall of notifications on various stocks.  • Assisted supervisor in discussions with clients searching for prices on stocks.    Nov 2012 - Present    Leadership Education Bachelor of Arts in Economics in Economics City University of New York, Hunter College - New York, NY Skills SECURITY, COMPTIA, INFORMATION SECURITY, NESSUS, NIST Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ March 2018 to March 2021 Additional Information SKILLS  Information Security Continuous Monitoring, Nessus, Vulnerability Assessment, Security Control Assessment, Information Security, Certification & Authorization, NIST Standards and guidelines, FISMA, Compliance, CompTia Security Plus