Cyber Security Specialist (Mid) Cyber <span class="hl">Security</span> Specialist (Mid) Cyber Security Specialist (Mid) Rockville, MD Former Cybersecurity Specialist (Mid). Secured enterprise-wide networks with top-of-the-line technical & policy-related expertise. UMUC MS Cybersecurity and MBA. CompTIA Network+ ce and Security+ ce. Searching for an information assurance role (non-cleared). Work Experience Cyber Security Specialist (Mid) Apex Systems December 2016 to April 2017 • Operate all aspects of Information Systems (IS), data availability, integrity, authentication, confidentiality, and non-repudiation.  • Implement and monitor security measures for communication systems, networks, and provide advice that systems and personnel adhere to established security standards and Governmental requirements for security on these systems.  • Develop and execute Government approved security policies, plans, and procedures; implement data network security measures; operate Network Intrusion Detection and Forensics; handle IS security incidents; support COOP/DR plans, and perform certification of IS and networks.  • Operate Electronic Key Management System, other information security duties, and Public Key Infrastructure (PKI).  • Operate Host Based Security System (HBSS), firewalls, Intrusion Prevention Systems, Intrusion Detection Systems, other point of presence security tools, Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), and related security operations. Information Assurance Analyst InterImage November 2015 to December 2016 • Determines enterprise information assurance and security standards.  • Develops and implements information assurance/ security standards and procedures.  • Coordinates, develops, evaluates and provides feedback to on IT security programs.  • Develops and writes Test Scripts, System Security Plans, Risk Assessments, and POA&Ms for remediation of risks.  • Recommends information assurance/ security solutions to support requirements.  • Identifies, reports, and resolves security violations.  • Establishes and satisfies information assurance and security requirements based upon the analysis of regulatory/policy requirements and user/resource demands.  • Supports in the development and implementation of IT security policies.  • Performs vulnerability and risk analyses of computer systems and applications during all phases of the SDLC.  Ensures all information systems are functional and secure. Cyber Intelligence Analyst Northrop Grumman March 2015 to November 2015 • Responds to computer security incidents in compliance with Information Security Policies and Industry Best Practices.  • Coordinates the efforts of and provides timely updates to multiple sectors and business units during incident response.  • Provides security related recommendations to the team as threat events unfold.  • Performs basic network forensic analysis in support of Intrusion detection operations including the development of indicators used to enhance the network security posture.  • Contributes to a team of information security professionals working with threat data, writing reports, briefing event details to leadership, and coordinating remediation across multiple Northrop Grumman organizations.  • Ensures technical security improvements are effective and maintained within configuration management structures.  • Ensures technology employed by the Security Monitoring Team compliments operational processes. • Regularly monitors various information security related web sites and mailing lists to stay up to date on current network threats, attack methodologies and trends.  • Analyzes the potential impact of new threats and exploits and communicates risks to relevant business units.  • Monitors the Northrop Grumman Global Network to find anomalous or malicious activity using various analytical methods and Security Event and Incident Monitoring tools in a high paced operational environment. IT Specialist Northrop Grumman June 2014 to March 2015 • Providing Tier 1 and Tier 2 support to users.  • Installing, configuring, and maintaining systems including hardware and software.  • Installing, configuring, and maintaining new security technologies.  • Setting up and repairing LAN, BAN, WAN networks. • Setting up and configuring desktop workstations.  • Working in a large multi-site environment. Education Master of Business Administration in Business Administration University of Maryland University College - Adelphi, MD September 2017 Master of Science in Cybersecurity in Cybersecurity University of Maryland University College - Adelphi, MD September 2015 Bachelor of Science in Cybersecurity in Cybersecurity University of Maryland University College - Adelphi, MD September 2013 Certifications/Licenses Security+ CE January 2015 to January 2021 Network+ CE June 2013 to January 2021