IT Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Analyst - Dow Jones and Company Inc Ocean, NJ Work Experience IT Analyst Dow Jones and Company Inc - Princeton, NJ September 2018 to Present • Assist and resolve end user's application, software, and hardware issues via: Phone, Email, Chat, Site support and Tech bar  • Provide timely updates by using Remedy ticking system to track and monitor everyday calls to the Service Desk.  • Train new employees on Service Desk team  • Research, evaluate and analyze end-user operations and support processes, and make recommendations to management on methods for optimizing and improving overall customer service  • Recommend, schedule, and perform software and hardware improvements, upgrades, patches, reconfigurations, and/or purchases.  • Work with procurement staff to purchase hardware and software.  • Imaging and deploying Mac and Windows machines to user base  • Managing Active Directory and Okta Admin for various different companies owned by News Corp. Companies such as Harper Collins, NY Post, Wall Street Journal, Dow Jones, Fox, NewsAmericaMarketing and Realtor.com Tech Support Apple DEP Team - Eatontown, NJ March 2018 to September 2018 • Service Desk support for a variety of technology incidents and services  • Enroll Apple devices to customers and fix errors or problems occurring during enrollment  • Requests that are generated via phone, voicemail, email, instant message, self-service etc.  • Open/Update/Close incidents and service requests in incident tracking tool  • Google Admin Active Directory (creating accounts, changing accounts, adding objects OU's)  • Work with Account Managers, or customers directly to solve incidents or service requests  • Experience with AS-400, Google Admin, Remedy ITSM, ServiceNow and SLA's Contractor Apple DEP Team - Red Bank, NJ February 2018 to February 2018 February 2018    • Helped IT department move computers, network supplies and all technical equipment to new office in Manalapan  • Took apart and uninstalled printers  • Reassembled and installed printers at new location  • Set up monitors, desktops and phones and employees' new desks Information Security Intern Commvault Systems, Inc - Tinton Falls, NJ May 2016 to August 2016 • Responsible for data entry and organizing and recording merchandise.  • Assisted employees with technical/network/ security issues.  • Developed an understanding of pro-active defense techniques, threat hunting as well as SIEM's and their providers.  • Put together network map of datacenter: listing devices such as fabric extenders and other switches.  • Sat in on conference calls with IT-ISAC, gained knowledge about other companies' experiences that dealt with potential threats Commvault could face in the future.  • Participated in root-cause analysis of technical issues to assist with the resolution of trouble tickets. Responsible for working with internal and external resources to dispatch hardware to customer location as necessary. Information Security Intern Commvault Systems, Inc - Tinton Falls, NJ May 2014 to August 2014 • Responsible for data entry and organizing and recording merchandise.  • Handled RSA trouble ticket solutions  • Assisted employees with technical/network/ security issues.  • Developed an understanding of the information management software industry specific to networking, security and data-management.  • Participated in root-cause analysis of technical issues to assist with the resolution of trouble tickets. Responsible for working with internal and external resources to dispatch hardware to customer location as necessary.  • Helped assemble the data center for the new Commvault Headquarters.  • Experience with internet, extranet, virtual private network, firewall protection.    Technical Skills  Operating Systems: Windows XP/7/ 8/10, Apple iOS and Apple OS  Management Tools: Okta Admin, SCCM 2007/2012, McAfee ePO/Endpoint Encryption, Remedy, Service Now, Active Directory Services, Jira, Google Admin G Suite, Adobe Creative Cloud Admin console, Apple Remote Desktop, RSA Security Solutions, Cisco Phone and Voicemail Admin  Applications: Microsoft Office, Microsoft Office 2011/2016 for Mac, Microsoft 365, Visio, Project, Okta, Amazon Work Space, Remedy, Cisco VPN Client, Cisco AnyConnect, MalwareBytes, Global Protect, Cisco PC and Mac, Google Mail, Adobe Creative Cloud Suite, UltiPro, Bomgar Remote Support, AS400, TeamViewer, Micro Focus RUMBA, Slack, Jabber, Skype, SAP GUI, Methode, Citrix, Concur  Hardware: MacBook Pro, MacBook Air, iMac, Dell/ HP/ Lenovo desktops, laptops, HP LaserJet printers, Xerox Printers, BlackBerry, iOS, Droid, Routers, switches, RSA Tokens, Cisco Phones Education Bachelor of Arts in Economics Seton Hall University - South Orange, NJ December 2017 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, ENCRYPTION, REMEDY, CITRIX, Microsoft Office, training, testing Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/tyler-douglass-042388bb Additional Information Summary of Professional Skills  • Enthusiastic, young and dynamic IT professional with over 4 years of experience working in a fast-paced News/Corporate environment  • Strong technical, analytical and problem-solving skills orientated toward quick, effective solution-driven results  • Focused, hard-working team player willing to go the extra mile to ensure the success of technical solutions  • Experienced and knowledgeable in various Windows and Macintosh system  • Highly experienced with project-driven goals, client/technical documentation and exceptional customer-service skills