Cyber Security Analyst Cyber <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Cyber Security Analyst - Pondurance LLC • M.S. in Cyber Security; University of Maryland University College (September 2018)  • Published IoT cybersecurity researcher  • Fluent in Spanish and Catalan  • Vetted for Public Trust security background check with DHS Work Experience Cyber Security Analyst Pondurance LLC September 2018 to Present • Experience with IPv4/v6 networks, network devices, proxies, IDS/IPS, vulnerability scanning, and other monitoring tools  • Ability to monitor client networks, log, and endpoint solutions to identify true positives  • Ability to communicate technical problems, vulnerability, and risk into a business context for clients  • Evidence collection through alert triage, incident response, threat hunting, PCAP analysis, digital forensics, and technical troubleshooting  • Ability to follow established processes and documentation. Ability to identify areas of improvement as it relates to processes and documentation.  • Various projects accounting for about 25% of work week  • Focus on customer service and experience  • Experience in vulnerability scanning and remediation Department of Homeland Security Case Specialist BI Inc March 2017 to September 2018 • Case manager for DHS contractor handling over 750 active cases in the United States.  • Regularly access secure federal, state, and local databases to monitor detainees.  • Monitor activities of case subjects and ensure compliance with detention parameters.  • Produce case reports and follow-up work products for client prosecution or removal actions.  • Regularly interact with law enforcement personnel to provide bilingual and computer technical support. IT Repair & Customer Service Provider Geek Squad January 2017 to June 2017 • Performed Tier 1 and Tier 2 troubleshooting and repairing of technical issues as described by customers  • Analyzed performance of hardware and software to make recommendations and educate customers.  • Interacted directly with customers to discuss issues and suggestions for product repair or replacement.  • Provided education and sales to clients, selling over $5,000 in technical support plans in first quarter  • Awarded top 10 best performing locations in the company Education MS in Cyber Security University of Maryland University College September 2018 BA Indiana University Bloomington 2016 B.A. in Security Informatics School of Informatics & College of Arts and Sciences Skills SECURITY, FTK, NESSUS, WIRESHARK, ELASTICSEARCH Additional Information Technical Competencies    Tools: Wireshark, Nessus, Elasticsearch, FTK, Volatility, Whitehat App Security Testing, and Endgame  Visual Basic (v. 2012). Understanding of basic loops, Booleans, variables, arrays, and building calculators.  Command Prompt: Bash (Bash 4.0), Linux (Bandit, Narnia, computer repair, Ubuntu, Powershell, and CTF events) Operating Systems  Windows (v. 10, 8.1, and 7)  Linux-based systems