Third Party Vendor Risk Analyst Third Party Vendor Risk <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Third Party Vendor Risk Analyst - Humana (Contract) Richmond, VA • To seek an IT Security Analyst opportunity in a Growth-oriented organization with focus on Information Assurance, Risk Assessments, Certification and Accreditation (C&A), HIPPA Compliance Assessments, System Security. I have more than three (3), years experience in conducting risk assessment, auditing IT internal controls and also assist in the development and review of security policies, procedure and guideline.    Special Skills and Training  • Microsoft office suite, windows operating system  • Analytical skills  • Multi-tasking, work independently and with team.  • Good communication skills to build and maintain customer satisfaction and express opinions in clear sound manners on matters associated with IT security  • Vendor Risk/Third Party security Risk Management  • HIPAA & HITECH Training  • Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA). Compliance Certification,  • The Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS)  • The International Organization for Standardization (ISO) Auditing Activities  • Statement on Standards for Attestation Engagements 16 (SSAE16)  • SOX ( Sarbanes Oxley) Work Experience Third Party Vendor Risk Analyst Humana (Contract) January 2018 to Present • Perform third party/ vendor risk assessment to assess the effectiveness of vendor controls against ISO 27001, HIPAA, HITECH through the use of GRC tool.  • Perform security risk assessments with a focus on Humana existing and new systems.  • Evaluate vendor's responses to Identify any risks the vendor poses and advice management appropriately.  • Engage vendors in remediation activities to enable them remediate identified risks.  • Monitor security risks that cannot be remediated on scheduled time.  • Engaged in Regulatory Security Risk Assessments and audits and update related regulations and industry best practices.  • Engaged in tracking security incidents and conducting risk assessment on service request.  • Assist with the documentation of policies, standards, and operational processes.  • Assess the extent that any outstanding risks may bring to the company.  • Complete risk assessments, security requirements analysis, and security testing.  • Create assessment reports and track remediation activities.  • Monitor all in-place security solutions for efficient and appropriate operations.  • Review and analyze SOC 2 Type II reports of third parties/vendors and Data Center. IT Security Risk Analyst Acentia (Contract) March 2015 to October 2017 • Assisted System Owners and ISSO in preparing Certification and Accreditation package for company's IT systems, making sure that management, operational and technical security controls adhere to a formal and well-established security requirement authorized by NIST SP 800-53  • Involved in system categorization using FIPS 199 and NIST SP 800-60  • Analyze and update System Security Pan (SSP), Risk Assessment (RA), Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA), System Security test and Evaluation (ST&E) and the Plan of Actions and Milestones (POA&M)  • Conducted supported annual security evaluation assessments based on NIST SP 800-53 rev 4 and 53A)  • Reviewed vulnerability assessments and ensure that risks identified are evaluated and proper actions have been taken to limit their impact on information systems.  • Conducted IT risk assessment and documented the system security key controls  • Met with IT team to gather evidence, develop test plans, testing procedures and documented the test results and exceptions.  • Conducted walkthroughs and table top exercises, formulate test plans, test results and develop remediation plans for each area of the testing.  • Developed security control test plans and conducted in-depth security assessments of information systems that evaluate compliance of administrative, physical, technical, organizational and polices safeguards in order to maintain HIPAA compliance base on NIST SP 800-66 Rev1 and security controls (NIST SP 800-53).  • Routine development of HIPAA compliance reports, documenting auditing findings and corrective actions. Education Associate Skills Assessment, Compliance Certifications/Licenses AWS CERTIFIED DEVELOPER ASSOCIATE November 2018 to Present