Technology Solutions Architect Technology Solutions Architect Network Security Analyst Kansas City, MO Highly skilled network engineer with a track record of understanding how technology systems impact business practices. Known for ability to rapidly assess business needs and implement quick technology solutions. Knowledge of infrastructure hardware, servers, desktop, and software support, with a focus on security of all IT systems. Work Experience Technology Solutions Architect ECUMEN - Shoreview, MN July 2019 to Present · Adapt business requirements to systems or technical requirements in order to develop and implement appropriate solutions including analyzing process flows, consulting with functional and department teams, preparing design documents, taking part in project meetings, and supporting project staff.  · Responsible for overall system security. Maintain industry awareness and incorporate security solutions to meet Ecumen’s security needs at the forefront of new and improved technology solutions.  · Provide support to the Chief Information Security Officer in annual reviews and reporting for the Board of Trustees. Assist with the development and administration of security policies and procedures and disaster recovery procedures.  · Collaborate with the Director of Portfolio & Project Management on the intake process and prioritization of candidate projects across the organization.  · Participate in strategic and budgetary planning processes and management.  · Monitor vendor performance relative to service agreements. Provide escalated operational support to address issues beyond vendor services.  · Provide guidance, mentorship and training for analysts and other team members. Network/ Security Analyst ECUMEN - Shoreview, MN July 2016 to July 2019 ·  Configure, manage, and troubleshoot all aspects of the network including firewalls, switches, and wireless from a variety of vendors including Watchguard, Cisco, Meraki, Aerohive, Ubiquiti  ·  Monitor network for security incidents, respond to threats, design and configure safeguards. Communicate security issues to management. Research emerging threats.  ·  Monitor and analyze network performance across the organization’s LANs, WANs and Wi-Fi infrastructure. Ensure network and IP connectivity of all workstations and application servers.   ·  Configure and maintain VMware environment of 70+ servers mixed between Windows and Linux. Test and apply service packs and patches to servers on monthly schedule. Monitor servers for efficiencies and adjust settings as needed.  ·  Manage centralized storage area network (SAN) using Dell/Compellent utilities and monitor performance. Allocate disk resources as required.  ·  Monitor and test server backups. Running test restore for each server monthly.  ·  Administer Active Directory domain users and computers. Add/remove users and configure permissions. Maintain security by access control through security groups.  ·  Work with DevOps team to create ways to automate processes between the infrastructure team and operations department. IT Coordinator Z Networks November 2015 to July 2016 • Plan and coordinate projects based upon clients' needs. Assembling labor, hardware, and licensing quotes to present to clients for project implementation  • Schedule field technicians to implement projects based upon the project plan  • Discuss scheduled routine server maintenance with clients. This includes our in-house  server analysis. Server analysis includes disk health, disk space check, anti-virus check,  windows security updates, most recent backup date, reading the event logs looking for critical errors  • Plan and implement backup solutions based upon the clients' needs using industry  best practices  • Plan and schedule the onboarding of new clients  • Discuss any open and ongoing projects with clients, giving updates as to status of the project  • Develop hardware refresh strategy, including networking infrastructure, servers,  workstations Network Engineer II Z Networks March 2015 to November 2015 • Use ticketing system to prioritize work and document resolutions  • Add/remove users in Active Directory and Exchange 2007, 2010, 2013, 2016  • Setup security groups, set folder permissions  • Program and troubleshoot networking hardware, routers, switches, wireless access  points, and firewalls, from a variety of vendors, including Cisco, HP, Juniper,  Watchguard, Dell Sonicwall  • Desktop support across a variety of software products, Auto cad, Revit, Newforma,  Sage, Quickbooks, Microsoft Office suite 2007, 2010, 2013, 2016, Office 365, Microsoft  OneDrive, Skype 4 Business  • Add/remove users in ShoreTel phone systems  • Windows server administration, 2003, 2008, SBS 2011, 2012  • Setup server backup using a variety of products, ShadowProtect, Windows Server  backup, CA Arcserve, Veeam, restore files or servers when needed  • Use of monitoring agent for all clients, monitors and alerts of server issues, ability to remote into servers and workstations  • Prepare and image new workstations for deployment Education High school or equivalent Skills Ccna (5 years), Cisco (5 years), Network Security (5 years), Router (5 years), Switch (5 years), Firewalls (5 years), Network (5 years), Servers (5 years), Vmware (4 years) Certifications/Licenses Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) November 2014 to June 2021 Cisco CCNA - Routing and Switching CCNA Security November 2017 to June 2021 Cisco CCNA - Security CCNA Cyber Ops June 2018 to June 2021 Cisco CCNA - Cyber Ops