Assistant Martial Arts Instructor Assistant Martial Arts Instructor Assistant Martial Arts Instructor - 87Afterschool Work Experience Assistant Martial Arts Instructor 87Afterschool - New York, NY September 2018 to Present Assistant capoeira instructor for elementary school children for an afterschool program. Capoeira is an Afro-Brazilian martial art that combines elements of dance, acrobatics, music, and Afro-Brazilian culture. Assistant Martial Arts Instructor Afro Brazil Arts - New York, NY September 2017 to Present Assistant and sometime lead capoeira instructor for children, teens, and adults. IT Consultant Bajibot - New York, NY May 2019 to May 2019 May 2019  ? Upgraded workstations from Windows 10 to Windows 10 Pro and added local users. SIEM Analyst Shearman & Sterling - New York, NY November 2017 to April 2018 Leverage threat intelligence to hunt for threats and indications of compromise within the Shearman infrastructure.  ? Analyze emails flagged as potentially malicious (phishing or messages containing malicious attachments or links) and determine whether it's a threat or a false positive.  ? First line of defense in resolving or escalating security alerts from our SOC in incident response. Information Security Analyst/Cyber Security Analyst San Francisco, CA January 2016 to August 2016 Evaluated HIPAA compliance for third-party security assessments.  ? Conducted HIPAA compliance audits for third-party companies.  ? Created Splunk alerts to find false positives within logs generated from ModSecurity. These alerts were filtered by ModSecurity attack categories (such as SQL Injection or Cross-site scripting) while whitelisting known internal IP addresses. Additionally the alerts returned a list of IP address when the Total Inbound Score or event count of the IP address were above a threshold value. Another alert was created detect brute force attacks on the web server by looking for a number of failed login attempts within the span of a second.  ? Ran Qualys scans to see if TLS was being used by third-party partner sites. Information Security Intern Tesla Motors - Fremont, CA August 2015 to December 2015 Responsible for creating Information Security Training materials for employees.  ? Created presentations for information security awareness training on social engineering, safe web browsing, and phishing.  ? Created a PowerShell script to find computers in Active Directory that were running Windows XP.  ? Performed physical penetration tests, finding weaknesses in physical vulnerability that could lead to potential data leaks. Network Group Summer Student - Cambridge, MA June 2014 to August 2014 Responsible for creating and updating documentation on the network infrastructure. Cloud Operations Engineer Intern Datto Inc - Norwalk, CT June 2013 to August 2013 Assisted in performing a gap analysis of the company's information security system, created information security policies and conducted a risk analysis. Education B.S. in Information and Security Forensics in business Rochester Institute of Technology - Rochester, NY June 2015 Skills SPLUNK, WIRESHARK, VMWARE, VISIO, LINUX, WINDOWS XP, MAC, MAC OS Additional Information SKILLS  Applications/Tools: VMWare, Wireshark, Visio, Splunk, Sumo Logic  Operating Systems: Windows XP/7/10, Mac OS X El Capitan, Linux (Ubuntu, CentOS, Fedora, and RHEL)