Cyber Security Analyst Cyber <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Cyber Security Analyst - Motivon Inc Indianapolis, IN Demonstrated ability to complete tasks accurately despite interruptions and competing demands. Customer-oriented, Diligence and reliability Cyber Security Analyst with strong history of leading high-performance teams to meet or exceed objectives. Resolute and hardworking with internal drive to deliver excellence. Tactical team builder with strong background in training and team development. An experience Cyber Security professional seeking for a room to grow with more challenging role within an organization. Work Experience Cyber Security Analyst Motivon Inc - Streamwood, IL February 2017 to Present • Prepares security Assessment and Authorization (A&A) packages to make sure that management, operational and technical security controls attached to NIST SP 800-53 standards.  • Knowledges in Vulnerability Assessment and Penetration Testing with direct expertise.  • Maintains Active Directory accounts and user access to file servers while complying PCI and state privacy laws.  • Determines and quickly resolve user access problems, manage user profiles, passwords and account information for mainframe, network, database and communication security systems uses throughout the organization in a appropriate moment.  • Knowledgeable in manage Information Assurance Evaluation tests.  • Conducts Risk & Controls assessments, analyzes business processes, develops risk & control matrices that support analysis and conclusions.  • Identifies security risk and mitigates through policy and procedure.  • Investigates network access incidents with network logs, using Splunk.  • Installs, implements, administers, monitors, and maintains security architecture technology processes and solutions.  • Ability to troubleshoot and resolve issues.  • Participates in the Cyber Incident Response Teams (CIRT), cyber security assessments, and incident response analytics.  • Ability to identify compromised systems and lead remediation efforts.  • Monitors and analyzes Intrusion Detection Systems (IDS), Anomaly Detection Systems (ADS), Firewall event logs, and Security Incident and Event Management (SIEM) toolset event logs to identify security attacks and threats for remediation/suppression.  • Monitors network traffic for security events and performs triage analysis to identify security incidents. IT Security Analyst Lambda IT Consult - Boston, MA September 2015 to February 2017 Performed Security Categorization (FIPS 199), Privacy Threshold Analysis  (PTA), E-Authentication with business owners and selected stakeholders.  • Developed and conduct ST&E ( Security Test and Evaluation) according to NIST  SP 800-53A.  • Applied current computer science technologies and Information Assurance (IA)  requirements to the analysis, design, development, evaluation, and integration of computer/communication systems and networks to maintain an acceptable  system security posture throughout the lifecycle of multiple national levels  mission system.  • Developed, maintained, and communicated a consolidated risk management activity  and deliverables calendar.  • Worked with business process owners to ensure timely identification and Remediation of jointly owned risk related issues and action plans.  • Performed comprehensive Security Control Assessment (SCA) and prepare report  on management, operational and technical security controls for audited  applications and information systems.  • Reviewed audit logs and provided documentation guidelines to business process  owners and management.  • Conducted meetings with the IT team to gather documentation and evidence about their control environment. Education Bachelor of Arts in General Studies in General Studies Indiana University Purdue University Indianapolis Additional Information Skills    Information Security, SIEM, Cyber Security, Nessus, Qualys, Unix-Linux. Windows. SQL, Penetration Testing, Metasploit, Wireshark, Splunk, NIST, Nmap, VM Virtual Box, Snort, Vulnerability scanning, Network Security.