System Enhancement and compliance manager System Enhancement and compliance manager System Enhancement and compliance manager - Galaxy Medical Services, LLC Lanham, MD • I have 5 years of experience as a Cyber Security Analyst developing and updating system security plan (SSP), security assessment plan (SAP), security assessment report (SAR), plan of action and milestone (POAM).  • Strong understanding of NIST risk management framework (RMF).  • I have experience assessing security controls based on NIST SP 800-53A guidelines. Other security controls based on NIST SP 800 that I have involvement with are including: NIST SP 800-37, FIPS 199, NIST SP 800-60, FIPS 200, NIST SP 800-53 within the Security Assessment and Authorization process.    Software Technologies:  The following are software technologies that I have utilized and analyzed. HIPPA, SharePoint, privacy impact assessment, cyber security asset management (CSAM), Nessus. Work Experience System Enhancement and compliance manager Galaxy Medical Services, LLC May 2019 to Present • Modification of systems, applications, hardware and application functionality    • Check systems and review compliance with HIPAA    • Manage material enhancements for data base and operational functionality, to further ensure compliance of company objectives    • Measure performance scalability    Maryland organizational Campaign Administrative Compliance Communications specialist Maryland Organizational Campaign August 2018 to December 2018 *Contract  • Established communication tools for elections and related all digital channels.  • Maintain policies and procedures for compliance analysis.  • Consume maintenance of security controls and technological assessments through CSAM and Nessus tools.  • Lead assessments and onsite consulting  • Consulted on NIST 800 SP 53 Rev 5. Compliance Analyst / IT Consultant U-site Technologies June 2016 to January 2018 • I performed vulnerability assessments through Nessus scanner to make sure that risks are assessed and evaluated; I viewed reports of programs and performed scans across the network.  • Worked closely with compliance departments to screen existing clients and analyze the risk of new clients.  • I created an adherence to ensure that projects met compliance of policy and security controls in accordance to NIST 53 rev 5 and FIPS 200  • Compose detailed assessment results with applying the POA&M, plan of action and milestones.  • I analyzed and updated system security plan (SSP), risk assessment (RA), privacy impact assessment (PIA), system security test and evaluation (ST&E) and the plan of actions and milestones (POA&M).  • I wrote policy procedures interpreting RMF NIST and applicable stages to the system description.  • Lead department meetings to create a level of transparency to address issues regarding compliance violations and recommend courses of action to resolve the issues. IT Security Analyst ARTHUR GROUP August 2015 to December 2016 • I regularly assessed and evaluated proper action to have been taken to limit the impact on the Information and Information Systems.  • Created standard templates for required security assessment and authorization documents using risk assessment (RA), system security plan (SSP), contingency plan (CP) and security plan (SP).  • I wrote policy procedures elaborating security controls and explain control failures and success.  • Developed security baseline controls implemented security controls for different projects and security analyst finding from assessment reports.  • Created standard templates for required security assessment and authorization documents, including risk assessments, security plans, security assessment plans and reports, contingency plans, and security authorization packages.  • Evaluated remediation suggestions and provide consultative support with the implementation of remediation steps, standards and best practices where needed.  • Conduct pre and post assessment review write-up for FISMA systems and provide recommendations to system personnel and ITSO.  • Utilizing NIST SP 800-53 Revision 4 and NIST SP 800-53A revision 4 and conducting security control assessments. Compliance Analyst ACCENTIA December 2013 to January 2015 • Performed IT risk assessment and documented the system security keys controls  • Designed and conducted walkthroughs, formulated test plans tested results and developed  remediation plans for each area of the testing in RMF where needed.  • Wrote audit reports for distribution to management and senior management documenting the results of the audit.  • Applied appropriate information security control for Federal Information System based on NIST 800-37 rev1, SP 800-53 rev4, FIPS 199, FIPS 200 and OMB 130 Appendix III  • Outlined and assessed threats from assessment through identifying the boundaries in the policy procedure.  • Conducted systems and network vulnerability scans in order to identify and remediate potential risks.  • Conducted Security Assessment using NIST 800-53A and write policy procedures with  • Developed and Conducted Contingency Plan and Test  • Developed and updated system security plan (SSP), plan of action and milestone (POA&M)  • Prepared and submitted security and assessment plan (SAP) to CISO for approval  • Ensured that established internal control procedures were in compliance by examining reports, records, documentation and operating practices.  • Attended and recommended security controls for Fed-RAMP Compliance. Education Bachelors of Art in Public Policy St. Mary's College of Maryland May 2014