Information Security Analyst Information <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Furthering my career in IT Security Ossian, IN Work Experience Information Security Analyst Parkview Health - Fort Wayne, IN April 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  Main duties included taking tickets that come into our ticket system, they range from Active Directory mapping, setup of Network Drives, firewalls, and Fireeye security suite. equipment. Typical day involves protection of sensitive information and compliancy. Implimentation of new equipment testing, configuring network within the Health Care System, while performing AD account resets and new user configurations, as well as providing excellent customer service skills.    • Providing compliancy per HIPPA and Hospital Regulations.  • Configure, install, maintain, manage equipment within the Health Care system.  • Troubleshoot equipment, set up domain GPO Policies.  • Using critical thinking skills to troubleshoot and prevent security breaches.  • Analyze how to keep Health Care system safe and secure for HIPAA compliance.  • Constantly learning, and evolving knowledge for the Health System and applying it to every day tickets. Technical Support Specialist Watch Communications - Ossian, IN March 2016 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  Main duties involve taking calls that people are having with their Internet and email problems. Assessing tickets in the Help Desk Queue, and getting them resolved. Other task includes setting up customer routers, emails, internet equipment (Ubiquiti, Cambium, Microtik, etc.). Keeping customer's satisfied with the service we provide. Helping Corporations set up their internet service and email as well.    • Providing excellent Customer Service  • Provide Hosting support to corporate and residential ISP email and, maintaining of web hosted websites.  • Resetting Passwords for user accounts and emails via webmail.  • Troubleshoot tower and subscriber issues. Customer Support Specialist & IT Technician MainStay Solutions - Fort Wayne, IN March 2015 to March 2016 Responsibilities:  Main duties included answered calls and tickets that came into the Help Desk Queue. Remotely accessed client's PC's and/or Server system to troubleshoot issues. Often was tasked to build computers and fix hardware issues with various computer systems, as well as Server builds. Setting up of computer systems via Image Server was another task that was performed regularly. Performed Infrastructure maintenance on client's networks including: Backups, Restoring files, Firmware/software updates and installations on Routers, AP's, Switches, Firewalls, PCs and Servers. Clean-up of Active Directory, DHCP, and GPOs.     • Installation of Windows Server OS's on Virtual Machines via Hyper-V for clients.  • Adding/removing Active Directory objects/users.  • Creating Group Policies for users within departments.  • Troubleshoot Exchange mail problems, and configure them within Active Directory on the server.  • Maintained and micro-managed client's email systems, including Microsoft Office 365, Exchange and Google Gmail. Usually involved, reset passwords and add/remove users.  • Set up kiosk stations using Group Policy Objects and settings, use of Windows Deployment servers.  • Installation and termination of Ethernet lines.  • Provided PC support on Windows 2000, XP, Vista, 7, 8, 8.1, and Windows 10. Mac OS X: 10.5.3-10.21.1.  • Onsite visits to clients for troubleshooting issues and surveying. Education Bachelor of Science in Intl Relations/ Security-Cybersecurity Indiana Wesleyan University March 2018 to December 2019 Associate of Applied Science in Cyber Security and Informatics Ivy Tech Community College - Fort Wayne, IN 2014 to 2017 Associate of Applied Science in Computer Networking Ivy Tech Community College - Fort Wayne, IN May 2014 Skills Digital Forensics (1 year), Analytical and Critical Thinking (5 years), Customer Service (5 years), Cyber Security, Information Security, It Security Certifications/Licenses NEC Server Cert January 2017 to January 2020 Training on installation and configuration of NEC Server configurations for IP phone systems. NEC IP+ SVR9100 January 2017 to January 2020 Latest NEC server configuration for IP phone systems with digital and analog hook up configurations. Computer information Technology Cert Present Cert. from Ivy Tech for passing A+ computer requirements