VP OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY VP OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY VP OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY - VERISK HEALTH Holladay, UT Work Experience VP OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY VERISK HEALTH November 2012 to September 2014 Responsible for the design, implementation, and support of multiple organizational information and communication systems for the Revenue, Quality, and Intelligence Division of Verisk Health. This includes all facets of Information Technology, including physical hardware (servers, storage, network devices, and others), operating systems, application solutions, and telecom systems. Environment was largely virtualized, running SaaS solutions with high SLA requirements and audit compliance, including HIPAA, SOX, and more.  • Lead various teams in achieving excellence by meeting the objectives of individual, departmental, and organizational objectives and goals. Direct and manage plans, schedules, policies, and programs for the data processing, network communications, business operations, computer services, and management of the various information systems.  • Grew the IT team from 5 to 25 members to support the company's explosive success and growth. Lead technology planning, implementation of best practices throughout the organization, while governing control and ensuring objectives are achieved. Risk and budget management, resource allocation, project prioritization, and research and recommendation of new systems.  • Continuously creating strategic plans and overall management of all IT projects. Run risk assessments on all technology systems, projects and vendors across the division. Provide technology vision and leadership for the development and implementation of initiatives. Implemented change management procedures and coordinated efforts to streamline operability between business operations and systems. IT SECURITY ANALYST XEROX SERVICES 2010 to 2012 Information security policy coordination and governance, systems and security architecture review, IT security risk assessment and gap remediation. Assist business units with audits for SOX, PCI, HIPAA, GLB, & SSAE-16 audits, managing remediation and governance efforts.  • Conduct security risk assessments to ensure compliance with corporate security policies and adherence to best practices. Participate in information security incident response activities and the technical investigation of security-related incidents. Direct the groups responsible for managing systems to correct security vulnerabilities and bring systems into compliance.  • Experience with encryption solutions, PKI, forensics, IDS/IPS, and penetration testing. Monitor networks and systems vulnerabilities using various tools and technologies. Created security baselines for all systems.  • Work with external auditors to ensure company compliance as required by client contracts. Assisted systems and networking teams with providing necessary artifacts to satisfy audit requirements. VP OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY MEDICONNECT GLOBAL 2009 to 2010 Planned, managed, and directed all technical operational functions of the corporation, reporting directly to the CEO. Provided company-wide direction in areas of policy and planning for data processing and related functions. Oversee technology solutions with timely and cost-justified projects that are aligned with organizational needs.  • Regularly evaluate existing technology, information systems, and human capital. Researched new solutions and recommended appropriate changes to best support company vision.  • Developed and managed external strategic partnerships. Implemented new IT processes, strategies, controls, standards, metrics, risk-mitigation, and planning to meet the changing business needs. Approximately 70% of time involved in management and strategic planning, and 30% hands-on operations. Education BS in BUSINESS UNIVERSITY OF UTAH - Salt Lake City, UT David Eccles School of Business Additional Information Effective management of IT solutions. Design and implementation of new infrastructure projects from the ground up, as well as maintenance, upgrades, and expansion of existing solutions. Meeting business requirements with solutions while maintaining boundaries within budgetary restrictions.