IT Security Analyst II | Software Engineer <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> II | Software Engineer Tucson, AZ Highly-skilled software development professional bringing more than 4 years in software design,  development and integration. Advanced knowledge of C# and .NET. Pursuing my passion in  providing excellent technical solutions to whomever I should contribute to. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Security Analyst II | Software Engineer August 2017 to Present Fidelity National Information Services (FIS)- Remote    Developed internal Web Applications through the Ruby on Rails web framework  • Utilized Model View Controller (MVC) design pattern  • Maintained Ruby files through a Ubuntu Linux Distribution Server  • Developed a multitude of features using Ruby on Rails, HTML, CSS and JavaScript  • Managed code with Git Repos  • Worked with MySQL to provide back-end storage  • Leveraged records in the database with the Active Record ORM  • Implemented complicated business logic to control data-flow  • Gained a sound understanding of controller action methods and routing  • Fixed previous outstanding bugs  Took initiative to learn Vulnerability Management through Networking  • Learned Networking to maintain Linux Network Infrastructure  • Maintained ruby scripts to move data from Nexpose, and Qualys scans to a MySQL back-end  • Troubleshooted network issues on Ubuntu Servers using ifconfig and various network utilities  through the command line  • Setup port-forwarding in SecureCRT  • Used a basic understanding of Firewalls to prevent unwanted access to the application servers. Software Engineer I Raytheon - Tucson, AZ September 2014 to September 2017 United States    Assisted project managers in designing innovative solutions to efficiently handle  planning and scheduling of tasks in Microsoft Project  • Converted the entire Microsoft Project c# legacy Visual Studio Tools For Office Toolbar add- in tab to utilize the Ribbon XML schema.  • Used C# to implement enhancements to existing tools in the suite.  Changed old legacy VB.NET tools into C#.  • Utilized Graph Data-Structure to optimize tools to perform in minutes from hours.  • Replaced direct SQL calls in the .NET client side with SOAP web-service calls using WSDL  agreements from the JAVA axis2 server.  • Implemented C# Winforms to take user input and automate scheduled financial processes.  • Created custom installer files to include individual tools from our suite.  • Used Visual Studio performance analysis tool to tune performance on slow response tools.  • Participated in telecon conferences to use expert customer service skills resolving unclear  requirements listed in Change Request.  • Accessed Microsoft Team Foundation Server to manage and track progress of Change  Request submitted by customers.  • Code versioned through Tortoise SVN.  • Monitored deployment of continuous integration through Jenkins build server.  • Instantiated professional innovative solutions to the automation of financial needs.  • Built, tested, and deployed scalable modular software products.  • Modified existing software to correct errors, adapt to new hardware and improve performance.  • Worked closely with clients to establish problem specifications and system designs.  Debugged and modified software components.    Worked on the Web Development team to build maintainable financial tools to track and maintain ample performance  • Implemented Java based solutions to provide enhancements to existing web application tools.  • Leveraged the Google Web Toolkit to deliver professional responsive User Interfaces.  • Handled back-end calls to the database through the use of Ibatis.  • Participated in query tuning existing SQL calls in Ibatis.  • Exposed existing RPC Java calls to Restful Web-services.  • Converted ColdFusion calls to harness Java Restful Web-services. Lead Designer Passthebook April 2015 to May 2016 As lead developer for this start up company my duties spanned from designing the front-end to populating thedatabase with T-SQL.  • Programmed in C# ASP.NET MVC to deliver a 3 layer tier Web Application.  • Created JQuery scripts to handle clicks from the user and intercept events to change the default posting behavior of forms, anchors, and buttons.  • Implemented Forms Based Authentication to handle security of the user through logging in,  and submitting payments.  • Handled dependency injection with use of Ninject.  • Designed the flow of data from the front end (HTML 5) to the Data Tier ( Entity Framework)  Created controller action methods to handle GET/POST calls from Jquery AJAX and form  post.  • Designed POCO classes to interact with each other to create referential integrity through CODE FIRST (Entity  Framework). Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Systems Engineering Arizona State University 2014 Skills .NET (3 years), c# (3 years), JAVA (3 years), SQL (3 years), VB.NET (3 years) Additional Information SKILLS  • C#  • Java  • Ruby On Rails  • Linux  • Networking  • VB.NET  • ASP.NET MVC  • .NET  • MySQL  • T-SQL  • Ibatis  • Analytical Skills