IT Security Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Security Analyst - Time Warner Cable Corporate Garland, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Security Analyst Time Warner Cable Corporate - Coppell, TX August 2014 to Present Entered and confirmed order information with customers to expedite order entry.  • Ability to consult with technical or non-technical personnel and derive information pertaining to projects or initiatives;  • Ability to learn new applications while maintain support of existing ones.  • Ability to define a problem or objective and identify relevant concerns or factors.  Basic understanding of Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Visio, and Project. Main data systems used ICOMS and ACSR/CSG. Member Specialist Advancial Federal Credit Union - Dallas, TX June 2014 to August 2014 Responsible for reviewing seller contracts & conveyance deeds to ensure accuracy with client system.  • Responsible for monitoring daily reports by tracking into Excel Spreadsheet.  • Audited and Indexed deed, title policy, and note documents into On base program.  • Compiled, sorted, retrieved, and filed contract documents into the mailroom.  • Proficient in On base, Espisys, Ocean, and Velocity programs. Data Entry Specialist Truly Noble Services - Garland, TX April 2012 to November 2013 Reviewed and entered purchase orders into computer database to follow through on customer requests.  • Verified & processed all bids and projects by reviewing, correcting to eliminate duplications.  • Worked alongside project coordinators to insure all work is successfully completed accurately.  • Helped increase job productivity and time management by following policies and procedures.  • Identified inconsistencies and missing data & worked to resolve issue in a timely manner. Shipping/Receiving Clerk (Temporary Assignment) Little Rock, AR February 2011 to October 2011 Processed orders including picking, checking, sorting, wrapping pallets, and packing loading.  • Properly organized warehouse to ensure all items is ready accessible, countable and identifiable.  • Generated and compared information to verify accuracy of items to be shipped with request.  • Stored information by re-arranging items for space allotment; filing information in designated areas.  • Documented inventory by recording shipments, adjustments, losses, and removal of items. Additional Information QUALIFICATIONS:  • Dependable, responsible, professional demeanor and positive attitude.  • Ability to multi task, to meet deadlines, and attention to detail.  • Strong data entry 65 + WPM and proficient in 10-key by touch.  • Excellent interoffice communication and time management skills  • Ability to work in a fast paced environment and to think strategically and problem solving.