Network Security Analyst Network <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Network Security Analyst - Apex Capital Fort Worth, TX Work Experience Network Security Analyst Apex Capital - Fort Worth, TX 2014 to Present Maintained previously held systems administration responsibilities and duties with a new focus on information security.    • Responsible for establishing and leading corporate information security program.  Implement data governance plan, and leverage data owners to establish baseline  configurations for all job roles.    • Automate all aspects of account creation, management, and auditing based on documented policies for access required by each job role through software  engineering.    • Detect and respond to security incidents by utilizing anti-malware and intrusion  detection technologies.    • Solely responsible for leading penetration testing initiative in order to reveal  weaknesses in, and further secure corporate network using technologies such as Nmap, Metasploit, and Burp Suite.    • Lead PCI Compliance initiative at new child company, including consulting in secure network architecture, as well as establishing all necessary policies and  procedures.  • Serve as mentor, and point of elevation for desktop support staff. Associate Student Pastor Fellowship of the Parks - Haslet, TX 2014 to Present Lead team of approximately 30 volunteers in order to facilitate a growing student  ministry.    • Develop lessons and sermons based on textual analysis, and communicate them in a method that is simple and easy to understand.    • Speak publicly in front of more than 100 people on a regular basis.    • Form relationships with students and church members, helping to meet their  needs. Student Ministry Intern Fellowship of the Parks - Keller, TX 2014 to 2014 2014  • Develop relationships with students, help facilitate student ministry activities and events, and gain experience in ministry. Desktop Support Specialist Apex Capital - Fort Worth, TX 2013 to 2014 Support end users and serve as the face of IT to the company, interfacing with all  other business units to determine technology needs, and solve software and hardware problems as they occur.    • Troubleshoot network issues through packet analysis, manage updates to workstations and servers, and lead Windows 7 deployment to the enterprise.    • Developed utility that allowed users to record VoIP calls as necessary through a  convenient desktop software. IT Intern Apex Capital - Fort Worth, TX 2011 to 2013 Gain experience in enterprise IT by supporting end users, and shadowing more  senior engineers as well as supporting Active Directory and Exchange and  Windows Server 2008 Education General studies Tarrant County College - Fort Worth, TX 2013 to 2014 Additional Information Skills  Systems administration, Network security, C# development, Java, C++,   Windows 7/8, Windows Server 2003/2008/2012, Active Directory  2003/2012, Exchange 2010, SharePoint 2010, networking, TCP/IP,  packet analysis, linux, penetration testing, Nmap, Metasploit, Burp Suite, Wireshark, security auditing,  security governance