Information Security Analyst Information <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Information Security Analyst - Apex Systems, Inc Browns Summit, NC Service Desk Generalist with 6+ months of experience providing tier 1 support. Assisted other technicians with customer troubleshooting. Effective communication, both written and oral. Works well independently in a high paced environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Information Security Analyst Apex Systems, Inc - Salem, NC June 2017 to Present Contractor)  Provide Wholesale access processes and application support to customers while mitigating risk.  • BOTS ( Business Online Ticket System) experience  • IAM ( Identity and Access Management) experience  • Ability to research and provide customers with excellent customer service  • Understanding of RBAC (Role Based Access Control) methods to mitigate risk within the line of business  • Work with management on escalations  • Research and share new information pertaining to the matrices with other analysts  • Manage SLA and queue management  • Risk review utilizing RBAC methodology  • Assisted with training within the CRE/RISK line of business Service Desk Generalist Ralph Lauren - Greensboro, NC October 2016 to June 2017 Contractor)  Provide tier 1 support to Ralph Lauren corporate associates, retail stores, and distribution centers.  • Troubleshooting laptops, mobile devices and iPads common issues.  • Reset network passwords using Active Directory  • Remote into users' computers to troubleshoot Microsoft office, Internet Explorer, and printer issues  • Connected users' to the network  • Troubleshooting POS registers, debt terminals, RF Guns, and iPads.  • Connected users' to the WiFi on iPads Library Assistant ITT Technical Institute - Durham, NC July 2016 to September 2016 Provided support for ITT students in a computer lab environment.  • Used virtual library  • Assisted students with account maintenance and logging in to school computers  • Helped students use Microsoft Office  • Assisted students on Wi-Fi connectivity Computer Technician Claxton Elementary School and Sedalia Elementary School - Greensboro, NC June 2016 to July 2016 Contractor)  Assisted other computer technicians at Claxton Elementary School and Sedalia Elementary School with computer installation and configuration of faculty and staff machines.  • Setup computer equipment within labs and classrooms IT Assistant ITT Technical Institute - High Point, NC May 2015 to December 2015 Federal Work Study)  Tutored students in IT courses, and provided tier 1 technical support for school faculty, staff, and students.  • Re-imaged computers  • Printer support  • Math tutoring  • Helped students use Microsoft Office Education Bachelor of Science in Information Systems Cyber Security in Information Systems Cyber Security ITT Technical Institute - High Point, NC December 2015 Associates Degree of Applied Science in Network Systems Administration ITT Technical Institute - High Point, NC March 2014 Skills RMS, IOS, MS OFFICE, APPLICATION SUPPORT (1 year), MAC, Information Security, Cyber Security Additional Information Technical Skills:  • Troubleshoot and resolve technical issues.  • Advanced knowledge of Windows Operating Systems (XP and 7)  • Mac OSx and iOS  • Desktop Application Support  • MS Office Suite  • Hardware/Software support and installation    Software knowledge: ART, IES, PAC2000, SPARS, WANDA, WACS, Request Center, ACT, BOTS, RMS, RECM ADMIN TOOL