Computer Lab Technician Computer Lab Technician Annandale, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Computer Lab Technician Fairfax County Public Schools August 2017 to May 2018 • Provide constant IT support to school staff and students for daily tasks and issues.  • Assist with regularly scheduled system maintenance for all school hardware as needed.  • Assume a primary role in the setup, rebuild, troubleshooting, and tracking of all school computers, laptops, telephones as needed.  • Act as a technical resource to assist users with resolving computer issues. Cyber Security & Network Analyst Intern Network Security System Plus April 2017 to August 2017 • Understood industry cybersecurity methodologies.  • Performed cybersecurity research and development.  • Monitored incoming and outcoming traffic.  • Assisted in setting up IDS/IPS for clients.  • Provided hands-on fixes at desktop level, including installing and upgrading software, hardening, installing hardware.  • Became familiar with Remote Access Tools (RATs)  • Understand different ports and apply their respective protocols  • Communicated effectively with all levels of management, and responds to changing technologies and business models on a daily level Administrative IT Assistant South Home Health Care January 2016 to November 2016 • Obtained missing clinical information by interacting with clinical personnel, reviewing client medical information and systematic client and nurse follow-up.  • Updated company's webpage and wrote quarterly company newsletter.  • Provide constant support to staff for daily tasks and issues.  • Act as a technical resource to assist staff with resolving computer issues.  • Provide initial troubleshooting of problems including root cause analysis for desktop, laptop and printers.  • Installed and maintained software and hardware packages on machines  • Monitored incoming and outcoming traffic and report all findings to higher authorities. Education B.S. in Information Technology with a concentration in Cyber Security & Networking Marymount University August 2016 to May 2018 A.A. in General Studies Northern Virginia Community College May 2015 Skills METASPLOIT, NESSUS, NMAP, WIRESHARK, SECURITY (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Motivated Recent college graduate with a concentration in Cybersecurity & Networking aspiring to gain employment in the cyber security/information assurance field.    SKILLS  Operating Systems: Windows Server 2008-2012 Servers, Windows 10, Linux, Hyper-V, VMware, Microsoft Suite, Active Directory, Access, Excel, Visio, Powerpoint  Network Software: Cisco Packet Tracer, Nmap, Wireshark, Network Miner  Security Assessment Tools: Nessus, AppDetective, Appscan, WebInspect, Metasploit, Wireshark  Web/Database: basic Python, Java, Oracle 11g, SQL/PLSQL, MySQL, Linux, Java, JavaScript, HTML, C++, Visual Basic  Hardware: Servers, desktops, workstations, mobile devices, Active Directory, routers, switches