Cyber Security IT Analyst Cyber <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Entrepreneur Lusby, MD Objective    To develop a career as an Cyber Security Analyst in a growing company where I can engage my development and analytical skills in a capacity that is mutually beneficial to the company and I, while continuing to learn new skills, processes, management activities, team building, development languages, and customer engagement on multiple levels.    Summary of Qualifications    Experience as a security and risk management professional of experience. Provided leadership and guidance to cross-functional business and technology teams responsible for the development and protection of the Nuclear Power Plant and production systems, including Windows, firewalls, proxies, intrusion detection, and antivirus solutions. Assisted in the development of the incident response, business continuity, and forensics investigation programs.  Established holistic security risk management programs to detect, report, and mitigate risk to the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of critical systems and data within a heavily regulated nuclear energy company. My programs are based on standards from ISO and NIST. The programs involved procedures on how to analyze threat, vulnerability, asset value (what is potentially exposed), and mitigating/compensating controls to provide a residual risk ranking. By applying consistent risk methodology across all assessments, my programs ascertained what security domains are most prone to risk. Mitigation and remediation addressed through education and awareness, refined control processes, and technology implementations. Performed privacy impact analysis based on privacy guidance from various state and federal regulations. Ability to conduct security research.  Ability to design and implement security controls to meet company security objectives.  Ability to solve complex problems in a simple and accurate manner improvement plans.  Ample Amount of Experience working with MS Office.  Experience using Risk Assessment Tools and Methods.  Experience with windows severs security administration and security infrastructure.  Experience with VPNs  Extensive knowledge of all stages of informatics systems life cycle.  Extensive knowledge of wireless networks and security  Good understanding of network infrastructure and the TCP/IP suite of protocols.  Highly skilled in Project Management.  Knowledge of Systems Management System SMS  Wide range of knowledge pertaining to the fundamental security concepts, information security standards, rules, and regulations. Work Experience Cyber Security IT Analyst Constellation Energy, Calvert Cliffs Nuclear Power Plant - Lusby, MD August 2011 to Present Interpret and implement NRC (Nuclear Regulatory Commission) rules governing nuclear power plant cyber security plan. Establish program to implement NEI 08-09, Cyber Security Plan and FERC/NERC (Federal Energy Regulatory Commission/North American Electric Reliability Corporation) CIP 002-009 Standards  Establish an information security risk management and security assessment strategy based on NIST SP 800-53 to address the NRC rule and FERC CIP standards  Acting as a principle advisor, provide guidance to other security analysts in security risk management methodologies for critical assets to the plant  Perform critical asset classification and impact analysis, security risk assessments, report on findings, recommend remediation, and follow remediation steps to completion  Participate in engineering project cross functional review teams to review technologies and ensure projects adhere risk management guidelines  Focus on security awareness initiatives for management and personnel to establish a secure environment Coordinator Ardyss International, Inc November 2009 to Present Schedule presentations, conduct presentations, sale products, order products, and distribution of  Products. Director Prepaid Legal Services, Inc October 2009 to Present Marketing Legal Plans Manager/Sales Rep Barber Supplies - Solomons, MD March 2011 to July 2011 Provide Database Security, enter inventory into the Database, order product/supplies, determine pricing for products, answer phone enquiries from clients, stock inventory, manage the cash register as well as suggest new items to purchase and stock. Office Clerk LifeStyles - Maryland, LA September 2002 to May 2003 Plata, MD (September 2002 - May 2003)    Assist in writing proposals to receive funds to help the community, answered telephones, faxed papers, entered data into the system, managed the data, updated the data, maintained the data, greeted visitors, filed documents, mentored children, managed a group of more than 10 individuals, make copies, scheduled appointments and meetings. Education M.S. in Management Information Systems Bowie State University - Bowie, MD January 2008 to January 2010 B.S. in Business Administration Bowie State University - Bowie, MD January 2003 to January 2008 Skills Microsoft Office Suite (Excel, Word, FrontPage, Access, PowerPoint, Visio, and Microsoft Project) Programming Languages (Visual Basics, COBOL, and C++) Database Development (Oracle 10g/SQL server 2005 and 2008, SAS, and Access) SAS Platforms, UNIX, Linux, Windows, Mac OS, and Mainframe (MD Mainframe)) Security and Disaster Recovery Tools (Snort, Pro Discovery, EnCase, FTK, X-ways WinHex/Hex workshop) Additional Information Currently studying for the CISSP Exam