Tutor Tutor Seeking Full Time Opportunities in Network Engineering Los Angeles, CA Actively seeking full time opportunities in Network engineering field. I'm allowed to work for any employer in US however would need a H1B Visa sponsorship in future. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Tutor University of Rochester - Rochester, NY August 2014 to April 2015 Being a CETL tutor, I was required by the university, to tutor both Undergraduate and Graduate students from different cultural backgrounds and national origin. Subjects tutored by me included all the levels of Calculus i.e. MTH 141,142, 143, 161,162, 163. Network Engineering Intern Annese Integrated Communication System - Rochester, NY May 2014 to August 2014 Annese Integrated Communication System, listed among the top 5000 fastest-growing companies in the U.S 2014, designs, installs, maintains, and services networks that integrate voice, video, and data services.  • As an intern, I was part of the VoIP team which was engaged in migrating traditional telephony system with the Cisco VoIP telephony system for a NY based client.  • Devices used: Cisco 2900, 2800, 1900 series routers and 29XX & 35XX switches.  • Application: CUCM, Cisco unity connection. Security Analyst Tech Mahindra IT and Telecom Solutions - Bangalore, Karnataka January 2011 to June 2013 Tech Mahindra is an Indian provider of networking technology solutions to the global telecommunications industry.  • Troubleshooting network related issues using BT proprietary GUI. Task involved some amount of debugging at router and switch level.  • Update the design and documentation of BT's network and its components monthly.  • Manage and update BT's website with latest products and offerings (Web designing using HTML 5.0 with some JAVA scripting).  • Coordinate with BT support team over call and resolve their service requests within the SLA (service level agreement).  • Recipient of "Valuable Team Player" employee award during quarter 1, 2 of financial year 2011-12 for proving network support and service to overseas client (BT) beyond office hours and during weekends. Automation Intern Honeywell Automation India Limited - Mumbai, Maharashtra June 2009 to August 2009 Contributed to team design and development of dual A/C temperature controller used for remote sensing at unmanned mobile base stations. Instrumentation and IT Intern Indian Oil Corporation Limited June 2008 to July 2008 Developed understanding of basic functioning & organizational roles of IT, Telecom & Instrumentation departments. Education MS in Wireless Communication & Networking University of Rochester - Rochester, NY August 2013 to May 2015 Bachelor of Technology in Electronics and Communication Engineering Tezpur Central University - Tezpur, Assam August 2006 to June 2010 Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/kundankumarsingh Additional Information Skills and Certifications  • Cisco Certified Network Associate (R&S), Cisco Id: CSCO1273834. March 2015 - March 2018 Topics covered: IP addressing, routers and routing protocols (including OSPF, EIGRP and RIP), VLAN & WLAN, access control lists (ACL), initial router and switch configurations, implementing access lists, understanding WAN technologies.    • Cisco Certified Network Professional (Route, Switch and Troubleshoot), CSCO1273834 May 2015 - May 2018  Topics covered: EIGRP, multi-area OSPF, eBGP, basics of IPv6 routing, IPv6 and v4 inter-operability, route redistribution, path control, basics of VPN technology, VLANs, configuring VACL & PACL, FHRP's like VRRP, GLBP, HSRP, Private VLANs, SVI's and general switch and port security configurations.  • HTML 5.0 with Java scripting, Basic C/C++ programming, MATLAB, Xilinx, HP Quality Centre and Service Desk.    Electrical and Computer Engineering Projects  Speech recognition and active noise cancellation Jan 2014 - May 2014  University of Rochester Rochester, NY  • Implemented an adaptive algorithm which used the two microphones of a cellular phone to analyze speech signal and the unwanted background noise. The algorithm then adaptively (real time) adjusts the filter coefficients to reduce/remove the noise signal. The convergence time of the algorithm varied depending upon the randomness of the background noise and its periodicity.  • Some other practical applications of these type of algorithms include:  1. Mobile phones 2.VoIP teleconferencing systems 3. Speech recognition  4. Hearing aids 5.Air to Ground communication between ATC and Pilot  • URL: http://www.ece.rochester.edu/~zduan/teaching/ece472/projects/2014/Singh_Gu_SpeechEnhancementBasedOnNoiseReduction.pdf    Adaptive RF power adjustment for mobile devices Aug 2013 - Dec 2013  University of Rochester Rochester, NY  • Project on optimization of RF power of wireless transreceivers for enhanced battery life under Dr. Wendi Heinzelman.  • Project involved monitoring the received power at the radio receiver for different separation distances and maintaining it adaptively as a function of distance over a certain threshold necessary for an optimum level of SNR for uninterrupted call and consequently average battery backup.    Decompression and de-blocking of compressed JPEG images Aug 2008 - Dec 2008  Tezpur Central University Assam, India  • Most of the applications running on cellphones perform compression of images before sending them via email or other chat applications. Our objective was to design and implement an efficient de-blocking algorithm which can perform efficient reconstruction of these compressed images at the receiver end via interpolation.  • Platform used: MATLAB.    Electrical and Computer Engineering Awards and Scholarships  • Recipient of tuition scholarship at graduate level and 2 merit based scholarship by Government of India during undergraduate studies.