IT Systems Administrator <span class="hl">IT</span> Systems Administrator IT Systems Administrator, DevOps - Sony Interactive Entertainment San Diego, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Systems Administrator Sony Interactive Entertainment August 2017 to Present Responsible for supporting DevOps teams,  developers and engineers within Sony infrastructure. Assisting with access issues and requests, as well as supporting end-user applications. Handling creation and modification of  security groups and group policies.  ? Developer application support: Support applications, systems and services  used by the DevOps team.  ? Okta administration: Our team is responsible for assisting with Okta  integrations using SAML 2.0, in addition to troubleshooting various SSO and Okta provisioning issues.  ? Access control administration: Responsible for user access control and security group management within Active Directory.  ? Software repository administration: Responsible for GitHub and Perforce user  account management; including creation, deletion and permissions management.  ? Service account creation and management: Work with developers and engineers to create and maintain service accounts necessary for scripting and  automation.  ? GPO administration: Maintain Group Policies (GPO) including firewall  management and port whitelisting. Systems Support Administrator I California Coast Credit Union May 2017 to August 2017 Responsible for patching and maintenance of Windows and Linux servers, both physical and virtual. Handling of daily Active Directory  and Exchange administration, including account creations and modifications, as well as security group management. Responsible for the administration of company's email  security filter. Monitored and responded to alerts using WhatsUpGold. Served as escalation point for help desk team.  ? Patching and rebooting of servers: Primary team for server security and compliance patching. Scheduled out patches for servers through Desktop  Central, Cal Coast's desktop management software.  ? Administration of banking and financial software: Assisted departments with banking software, including resetting passwords and unlocking consoles in  Cardwizard and Symitar.  ? Email security administration: Reviewed email quarantine logs via LANScreen  software. Updated email whitelists and blacklists, and released emails as needed.  ? Check imaging server upgrade project (VisionArchive): Volunteered to assist  with upgrading of our check imaging software. Responsible for building out virtual  server via vSphere, coordinating with eDocument Management team and System  Infrastructure team to ensure completion and quality.  ? Active Directory and Microsoft Exchange administration: Responsible for administration of AD and Exchange servers. Handled creation of new users,  updating of user accounts and privileges, as well as management of security  groups and distribution lists.  ? Monitoring and alerting: Responsible for alerting in WhatsUpGold, including  monitoring and responding to alerts for security and device status. Used  monitoring tool to compile daily status reports. Network Security Operations Center Analyst July 2016 to May 2017 Responsible for monitoring and alerting of all corporate nodes, including several virtual and physical Microsoft and Unix-  based systems, network devices, and appliances. Handling of daily Active Directory and Exchange administration, including account creations and modifications, as well as  security group management. Acting as escalation point for technical support team, and resolving issues or escalating as necessary.  ? Primary Netbackup Administrator: Volunteered to take lead as the primary  admin for disaster recovery system. Audited existing backup policies, and optimized processes through collaboration with other teams.  ? Security and compliance: Administration of security tools such as Splunk,  TripWire and Red Seal. Management of Okta multi-factor authentication service, as well as security groups in Active Directory and Amazon Web Services.  ? Alerting and company-wide notifications: Primary point of contact for every  system-initiated alert, as well as alerts from Solar Winds (Network Performance  Monitor). Responsible for notifying the correct teams, as well as tuning the alerts to increase response time.  ? Migration to AWS: Working with all other IT teams to migrate servers from data  centers to AWS. Participating in deployments to assist with alert tuning and corporate communication.  ? Active Directory and Microsoft Exchange administration: Responsible for maintenance of AD and Exchange servers. Our team creates all new hire  accounts and mailboxes, and also handles any changes or removals. Voice Operations Technician Voxox May 2015 to July 2016 Served as escalation point for technical support team.  Performed troubleshooting on Voice over IP systems in order to resolve or pinpoint area of failure. Responsible for daily monitoring of SMS server.  ? SMS Admin: Handled all SMS issues and tickets. Parsed through SMS logs in  order to identify errors, and escalated to vendors as needed.  ? False Answer Supervision (FAS) Monitoring: Monitored FAS across all VoIP  vendors. Re-routed traffic and/or contacted offending parties as necessary, in an effort to maximize call traffic.  Technical Support Agent: Handled inbound VoIP support calls, as well as tickets  submitted via email. Performed troubleshooting of VoIP hardware to resolve issues and meet SLA times. Performed testing of various configurations and network setups in  order to maximize job efficiency and problem solve.  ? VoIP systems support: Technical support team for all Voxox customers.  Assisted with making changes to phone system, as well as troubleshooting and resolving any service-related issues.  ? Team Lead: Organized weekly team meetings, and gathered statistics to create  team reports. Reported directly to VP of Customer Experience. Education B.S. in Computer Science Western Governors University 2017 to Present B.A. in Sociology California State University Long Beach 2008 to 2012 Skills SSO (1 year), ACTIVE DIRECTORY (2 years), SECURITY (Less than 1 year), CONFIGURATION MANAGEMENT, SCANNING, System Administrator, Vmware, Linux Administrator, System Admin, Linux Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ June 2017 to June 2020 CompTIA Network+ June 2017 to June 2020 CompTIA Security+ June 2017 to June 2020 Additional Information Technical Skills  ? Windows server/Active Directory administration  ? Vulnerability scanning and patching  ? Network performance monitoring and alerting  ? Security and compliance auditing  ? Okta SSO/Configuration management  ? Working within Agile framework as a Scrum team member