Vice President Vice President Vice President - Cyber Eye Organization Work Experience Vice President Cyber Eye Organization August 2017 to Present Organized talks from Leaders of cyber industries teaching students about different cyber jobs and giving student opportunities to network.  ? Find and research different local cyber events and organized rides in order to give club member networking opportunities. Researcher Cyber Eye Organization August 2016 to Present Involved in open source intelligence research that writes articles that are shared with various companies in the intelligence industry.  ? Search the deep web for potential zero days and incriminating evidence against people involved in human trafficking. Cyber Security Analyst Intern Presidio May 2018 to August 2018 Coded a script that would parse a Nessus report into a Excel Spreadsheet with matching graphs using Regular Expression. This script will be used to update client companies during their quarterly vulnerability assessment report.  ? Trained to look at daily logs of over 30 different companies using Mcafee SIEM system, checking for abnormalities that would indicate a vulnerability in the system.  ? Open and closed tickets using Cylance an artificial intelligence based threat prevention system. IT Support Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University May 2017 to October 2017 Dealt with various calls and concerns from Embry-Riddle staff and students on information technology.  ? Expected to be proficient in information technology in order to travel to various sites and setup/fix various technological issues. Coding Intern Milton Security May 2015 to August 2015 Over the course of my internship, I worked on making a USB ID logger that can host Windows Configuration Files on Windows Service.  ? I learned how servers and clients communicated while learning how to code in C#. Education B.S. in Cyber Intelligence and Security in Cyber Intelligence and Security Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University - Prescott, AZ 2020