Security Operation Center Analyst <span class="hl">Security</span> Operation Center <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Security Operation Center Analyst - Ciox Health Johns Creek, GA Experienced IT Technician and Cyber Security Analyst seeking a new position to play integral role in information  security and risk mitigation programs in a corporate environment. Enjoying technical, hardware and software  challenges. Quickly mastering new technologies, systems and tools. Capable of exceling in both team and self-  directed settings. Security+ certified, Cisco CCNA and CISSP training in progress.    TECHNICAL TOOLBOX  Languages: basic level of Python Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Security Operation Center Analyst Ciox Health 2016 to Present Responsible for remediation and escalation of cyber security breaches. Preparing Reports, Risk Assessment and Security Compliance.  • FireWalls Palo Alto / Aperure DLP/ FortiGate: reporting, monitoring, build routes and vlans  • Google Administration: Vault, Quarantine, User provisioning, Account termination  • Incident response fallowing company guidelines and Play Books  • AlienVault: run queries, hunt for unauthorized traffic, build reports  • Ad Manager / Ad Audit Plus: Identity management and security audits  • Safenet Authentication Services: Key assignment, reporting, management  • Splunk: monitor, build reports with graphical dashboard  • Wbsense: monitor, web/content monitoring  • Well versed in HIPPA $ NIST SP 800-61 Compliance Principal IT Specialist Omega IT Consultants LLC 2013 to 2015 Helped the company to address the local IT market needs of small businesses and individuals. Achieved complete  customer satisfaction and contributed to dynamic growth of the company. The services include:  • Network Topology: design, network cabling and Internet connectivity  • Server Infrastructure: hardware, server virtualization Platform, operating systems and storage.  • Software management: OS imaging and deployment  • Systems setup: rack switches, white glove installation  • Network security: Nmap, Nessus and MaltegoCE    RosenEYordanov@gmail.com | 404.538.7766 | Johns Creek, GA 30022 Junior Programmer Incept Development 2012 to 2013 Focusing on application development using the Xcode IDE reaching alpha, beta and unit testing. Enhanced Quality  Assurance Testing and successfully completed several Objective C programming and debugging projects. Server Technician Vision Computers Inc 2012 to 2013 Excelled in building server systems for various government organizations, preloading them with either Linux  CentOS, or Windows Server. Responsible for analysis and benchmarking of new OS release features and enhancements as well as antivirus and malware protection.  Created 24h customer follow up protocol. Education Computer Science Georgia Perimeter College - Perimeter, Georgia, US 2013 to Present electronics and cable network management Pen Foster Career School 2005 Skills Linux (1 year), testing. (1 year), unit testing. (1 year), virtualization (3 years), Xcode (1 year) Additional Information Operating Systems: Administration and virtualization of Windows, Linux, and Mac  IDE: alpha, beta, and unit testing with Xcode  Hardware: Custom PC building, laptops, servers and workstations, including performance tracking and  maintenance.