Consultation Agent Consultation Agent Information Technology Consultant & Security Analyst Appleton, WI Earned Desktop Support Certification and finishing up a Help Desk Support TD from Fox Valley Technical College with a current GPA of 3.84/4.0.    Passionate about innovation, problem solving, positivity, world class support, and impactful work; resulting in years of successful IT experience.    Versatile • Accountable • Tech Savvy • Articulate • Results Driven Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Consultation Agent Best Buy - Appleton, WI August 2017 to Present • Knowledgeable of the latest I.T. trends while providing expertise for miscellaneous I.T. solutions/fixes.  • Engage with 10-20 clients daily to provide optimal solutions that fit with the stated budget and resources.  • Manage confidential client paperwork and guarantee all projects are completed in a timely manner. Cyber Security Analyst Make I.T. SOAR - Appleton, WI April 2016 to Present • Collaborate with a team of 7 to conduct web application security testing for companies throughout Northeast WI.  • Assist with conducting vulnerability assessments and penetration testing for companies with $100M+ in annual  revenue; responsible for ensuring a high quality technical report is provided as a deliverable to EOT members.  • Recipient of the 2018 Force for Positive Change Award presented by the Wisconsin Alumni Research Foundation  (WARF) and the 2017 Company Innovation Award presented by the Fox Cities Chamber of Commerce. Computer Support Specialist Appleton Area School District - Appleton, WI May 2016 to July 2017 • Led a team of 10 others to analyze and update current network infrastructure, while assisting with troubleshooting  and repairs of existing equipment for staff across 38 schools in the Appleton Area School District.  • Produced and maintained timely, accurate engineering documentation to support implementation, operations  support and quality/compliance requirements. Assisted with technology evaluations and proof of concepts. Student IT Help Desk Intern Fox Valley Technical College - Appleton, WI September 2015 to May 2016 • Assisted with the installation of new components in equipment and troubleshooting of faulty hardware/software.  • Completed intake and release forms for clients, and documented progress/resolutions within an online database. Computer Support Technician Bits & Bytes Computers - Menasha, WI September 2015 to January 2016 • Evaluated various computer issues for approximately 10-15 customers daily and provided cost-effective solutions.  • Built custom systems based on specific requests; knowledgeable of major brands (Apple, Acer, Toshiba, etc.).  • Documented system issues and kept detailed reports of changes, repairs, and/or upgrades. Education Diploma Fox Valley Technical College - Appleton, WI May 2019 Skills Customer Support, Troubleshooting, Technical Support, Responsive Web Design, Web Development, Proposal Writing, Graphic Design, System Deployment, Hardware, Project Management, Sales, Customer Satisfaction, Computer Repair, Information Technology, Software Installation, Software Testing, Quality Assurance, Microsoft Office, Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel, Microsoft PowerPoint, Microsoft Visio, Windows Xp, Windows 7, Windows Vista, Windows 8, Windows 10, Customer Service, Teamwork, Mentoring, Leadership, Communication, Time Management, Collaboration, Interpersonal, Soft Skills, Data Wiring, Computer Building, Software Troubleshooting, Teaching Workshops Awards 2017 Company Innovation Award 2017 Recipient of the 2017 Company Innovation Award presented by the Fox Cities Chamber of Commerce. 2018 Force for Positive Change Award 2018 Recipient of the 2018 Force for Positive Change Award presented by the Wisconsin Alumni Research Foundation (WARF) Certifications/Licenses Desktop Support Certification April 2016 to Present Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES  ? Leader & Team Player ? Computer/Technical Literacy ? Time Management  ? Problem Solving ? Interpersonal & Soft Skills ? Collaboration  Versatile | Accountable | Tech Savvy | Analytical | Results Driven    ADDITIONAL SKILLS  • Proficient in Microsoft Office (i.e., Word, Excel, Outlook, PowerPoint, Visio, etc.) and the Adobe Creative Cloud  (i.e., Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign, etc.)  • Expert at building client rapport through exceptional customer service and support skills.  • Adept at handling customer/client and coworker conflict.