Financial analysis and business strategist Financial analysis and business strategist Financial analysis and business strategist Williamsport, PA When I was young, I always told myself that I am entrepreneur and a business man who have a great vision, problem solving by connecting to dots as well as a quickly building up relationiship and trust. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Financial analysis and business strategist Williamsport, PA August 2017 to December 2017 Interned in the keystone consulting business venture for the valuation report and benchmark analysis of the real estate.  ? Work Directly with boss and due diligent to finish project on time.  ? Help our client for analyzing the future cash flow with the discount cash flow model and CAPM model for the risk analysis.  ? Finding the best fit comparable for our clients' business for our benchmark analysis, and provide them suggestion for the market plan and specific business development legally, strategically.  ? Making the Excel spreadsheet for the data analysis based on current and past economic condition  ? Create capital budgeting for our client's business development.    Leadership and Extracurricular Activities  GNSA- Global Neighborhood Student Ambassadors  GNSA Nutrition and Healthy Representative Director.  ? Presented though Zoom for purpose of sharing what is American life about personally by revealing culture shock that normally happens between China and America.  ? Created the awareness of environmental issues in China by comparing with foreign countries like US.  Introduce the English corner program in China. The new way of teaching English: Explore, Discover and Learning. Help other new English learners study.  Lycoming College Snowboarding and Ski Organization  Vice President  ? Organize the club budget and specific plan for the trip.  ? Seek new members and attract them to join them club by advertisement, persuasion. Security Analyst Assistance Hongxin Security Exchange Agency May 2016 to August 2016 Volunteered to assist with researching public information for company and the emerging new information that affect the stock price in China.  ? Learned specific technical skills through looking at charts of stocks transaction. Analyzed relative safe buying and selling points and communicated with clients.  ? Due diligence on researching public and corporate information.  ? Served as an assistant for senior director, and help to deal with the routine work. IT Desk Helper Lycoming College 2015 to 2016 Assisted with students who have trouble with Internet connection issues  ? Maintained computer and printer with good condition.  ? Solved some technical internet remediation service for students. Salesman-agency Amway Multi-Marketing Company 2014 to 2015 Advertised and sold home goods products to friends and relatives, so let them to create more network effect for my business.  ? Maintained the cash flow and capital budgeting.  ? Built up the long-term business relationship by giving more value to my current customers such as discount card. Education Bachelor of Arts in Business Administsration Financial tract and Managerial Economics Lycoming College - Williamsport, PA August 2014 to May 2018 Skills Cooking (3 years), Excel (2 years), SPSS (Less than 1 year), Word (4 years) Additional Information Technical Skills: Word, Excel, Power Points, SPSS, iMovie, Windows PC,  Interest: Lifting, Road bike cycling, Music, Travel, Camping, Photographing, Making new friends, Cooking new dishes.