Security Operations Center (SOC) Analyst <span class="hl">Security</span> Operations Center (SOC) <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Security Operations Center (SOC) Analyst Hahnville, LA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Security Operations Center (SOC) Analyst NASA Stennis Space Center - Pearl River, MS August 2014 to October 2015 Handle Personally identifiable information (PII) email data spills  ? IDS monitoring, Analyze network traffic; stay up to date with current vulnerabilities, attacks, and countermeasures.  ? Performed Administrative Tier 2 and 3 duties to manage user accounts  ? Create BMC Remedy trouble tickets for any corrective action taken for any security incident.  ? Use Splunk to gather analyzes on affected workstations. USMC NMCI IT Helpdesk Technician Tek Systems - Algiers, LA July 2013 to August 2014 Trouble shoot layers 1, 2 and 3 of the OSI Model.  ? Evaluate, install or troubleshoot network software via Element (ESD)  ? Proficient in managing Active Directory accounts and MS Outlook 2010 end user issue resolution  ? Able to Create BMC Remedy trouble tickets for any corrective action taken for daily checks.  ? Performed Administrative Tier 2 and 3 duties to manage, create, and logically move user accounts  ? Perform system maintenance on Win7 and XP such as assisting with patches and upgrades  ? Provide help desk support to customers accessing NMCI network services and resources.  ? Assist in troubleshooting, maintenance, and repair coordination from customers to providers  ? Perform immediate troubleshooting as the situation dictates for any and all network outages as reported  ? Manage more than 5,000 Marines Nationwide and Marine infrastructure  ? Profile clean up and remote assistance Cabling Technician NASA Stennis Space Center - Pearl River, MS December 2012 to January 2013 Responsible for running new CAT 6 cable into existing buildings  ? Terminated and Tested Cat 6 cable  ? Removal of old cables and switches Structure Cabling Technician Monsanto - Luling, LA February 2012 to October 2012 Responsible for running new cabling in existing buildings  ? Pulled Cat5e & Fiber Optic Cable  ? Operated Man Lift  ? Terminated, and tested new cabling  ? Setup new telecommunications frames within plant  ? Installed Hoffman cabinets for new network  ? Installed new switches and Fiber Enclosures  ? Removed all old hardware    SECURITY CLEARANCE    ? Active Secret Clearance  DEGREE Education Associate of Science in Computer Networking Systems ITT Technical Institute - Saint Rose, LA April 2012 Certifications/Licenses Security+ September 2016 Additional Information Experienced and knowledgeable Information Technology Professional seeking to contribute training and acquired skills within an IT Security environment. I have my Associates' degree of Computer Network Systems. I am eager to learn and can work well independently, or in a team providing all facets of account management, and computer support.    SKILLS    ? Microsoft Office  ? Personal Computer Setup  ? System Admin Tier 3, BSR, and accounts management  ? Installation/Termination of Cat5/6 cables  ? Experienced in BMC Remedy 8.1 Program  ? Network Security  ? Proven experience in solving IP network issues in timely and cost efficient manner  ? Experience in working in a fast pace environment with customers, and meeting deadlines  ? Team Member  ? Communication  ? PC and digital communication integration  ? LAN Technology    Operating Systems: Windows 7, Windows XP/Vista,  Hardware: Switches, 100baseT fiber over Ethernet switch, Cisco 7945 VOIP phones, workstations (HP, Dell)  Software: McAfee, Splunk, Cisco, Visual Basics, BMC REMEDY IT  Incident Management, MS Outlook, Symantec, USMC SharePoint  Professional Plus 2010, Microsoft Exchange, Active Directory.