Cyber Security Analyst Cyber <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Cyber Security Analyst Port Hueneme, CA Experienced Cyber Security Analyst with excellent client and project management skills. Action-oriented with strong ability to communicate effectively with technology, executive, and business audiences. Possess a strong technical background with an emphasis in security. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Cyber Security Analyst Navair May 2018 to Present • Providing various technical Information Assurance support to the Naval  Mission Planning System (NavMPS) Integrated Product Team (IPT) and Risk Management Framework support in all matters related to Cyber Security.  • Developing, analyzing, and updating Plan of Action and Milestone  NIST (POA&M) and other Certification and Accreditation (C&A) documentation for Joint Mission Planning System (JMPS) accreditations.  • Analyzing Mission Planning Systems and baseline JMPS accreditations  Operating Systems using Security Technical Implementation Guides (STIGS) and Retina/Nessus/SCAP Vulnerability scans. Windows 7/10 • Verification of JMPS Mission Planning Environment (MPE) software in the Department of Navy Department of Navy Application and Database  Windows Server 2012/2016  Application System (DADMS).  • Maintaining current JMPS accreditations through monthly continuous monitoring. macOS   • Inputting NAVMPS C&A packages into the EMASS system for review by Accreditation Authority. Red Hat Enterprise Linux Service Delivery Technician Esri June 2017 to May 2018 ESRI • Provide technical support utilizing emails, phone calls, IM's and remote desktop for around 5000 employees nationally and internationally.  • Troubleshoot and repair desktops, laptops, and mobile devices at a walk- up service desk that offered immediate support for colleagues that required expedited assistance.  • Ensured conference room equipment was always functional by preforming daily walkthroughs.  • Utilized tools ranging from Active Directory, VPN, Men & Mice, Exchange, Skype for Business and other enterprise level tools to diagnose, create or resolve issues for colleagues immediately to ensure colleagues are back in a productive workflow. Technical Service Representative II FedEx Services February 2016 to June 2017 Provided technical support for over 1500 users on a remote/in person basis.  • Offered hardware upgrades as needed per user needs and department resources.  • Oversee telecommunication room maintenance and provide hardware updates\support for Cisco networking devices.  • Provide Active Directory administration with (adding/deleting accounts, creating computers accounts, modifying groups, disable/unlock accounts, & resetting user passwords).  • Provide technical support in the configuration, maintenance, restoration and functions of all products deployed including (laptops, desktops, tablets, mobile devices, yardmen handhelds, etc). IT Support Technician ISN Global Enterprise February 2015 to December 2015 Assisted with new network deployments and dropped lines, installed devices onto racks, & punched down twisted-pair wiring on 110 block patch panel.  • Provided excellent customer service over the phone and email with end- users on technical issues.  • Trained and walked users through their technical issues and problem- solving processes.  • Monitored client workstations ensuring that backups, antivirus scans, and patches where archived.  • Configured network technologies as in VOIP, UCM, Routers, switches and Access Points. Education Master of Science University of Maryland University College March 2018 to March 2020 Bachelor of Science in Cyber Security California State University San Bernardino 2008 to March 2015 Skills Cyber Security, Nist, Information Assurance