Information Security Analyst Information <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Panama City, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Information Security Analyst Davidson Technologies, Inc. October 2018 to Present Duties, Accomplishments, and Related Skills:  DUTIES: Assist senior members of the team with assigned tasks. Become familiar with the contract, tools that will be used, and eMASS. Read through eMASS user guide and collaborate with other team members to streamline the guide. Partake in Compliance Team meetings, and offer solutions when able to based on previous experience. Complete required training within the allotted time. Provide base access for those without access. Utilize SCAP and STIG tools on Windows based machines, and bring out of compliance machines into compliance. Utilize Risk Management Framework. Assist with writing contract proposals. Collaborate with other sections of the team to help develop solutions to issues in their respective areas. Read through NIST documentation related to DoD Compliance.     SKILLS: Utilize SCAP Compliance Checker to gather information on systems, and compare them to baseline STIGs to create a plan of action to bring systems into compliance. Communicate effectively and efficiently, both written and verbal, with other members of the team, and members of other companies. Perform individual tasks quickly. Take useful notes during meetings that are later used as reference. Take initiative on trainings, projects, and assisting. IT Support Specialist/ Cyber Security Specialist WOLFGUARD IT - Bozeman, MT May 2017 to September 2018 Duties, Accomplishments, and Related Skills:  DUTIES: Interacted with clients over the phone and ticketing system to understand the issues that they were experiencing and worked with them to provide the quickest and most effective solution. Communicated with hardware and software vendors to gain knowledge into the specific systems provided to the client to be able to further assist in supporting and troubleshooting them. Maintained relationships with multiple clients in order to better provide support and preventative maintenance on the systems. Worked unsupervised on issues both remotely and onsite for the clients. Performed day to day support tasks. Did research and development projects for clients when requesting new solutions to be implemented. Performed research and development projects for internal solutions that are used by the company, and later offered to clients. Utilized our ticketing software to log issues, solutions, contacts, and time spend on dealing with particular items.     SKILLS: Ability to work with little to no supervision. Ability to interact with clients in person, over the phone, and via emails. Ability to search and quickly resolve software, hardware, and network issues. Design, implement, and support both on premises and cloud-based VoIP systems. Troubleshoot software and hardware issues. Troubleshoot network connectivity issues. Upgrade software and operating systems. Maintain servers and network equipment, as well as personal computers, laptops, peripheral devices and auxiliary devices. Soft skills to help interact with clients. Skilled in the use of security software and remote access software to monitor and work on client machines. Setup and maintain LAN and VPN connections utilizing network equipment from multiple different manufactures. Skilled in relaying technical information to non-technical personnel in both oral and written communication, including giving training for small to large groups of people. Able to work with Windows, Linux, Apple systems, and Android and iOS handheld systems.    Developed and led security awareness training for clients, including local area business and Chamber of Commerce. Second Assistant Manager The Men's Wearhouse - Panama City Beach, FL August 2016 to December 2016 Duties, Accomplishments, and Related Skills:  DUTIES: Interacted with clients to provide world class customer service. Recommended looks based on the client’s needs and requests. Participated in weekly trainings, as well as individual trainings with new and established employees. Handled customer service issues in order to rectify any issues, and promote a welcoming and friendly atmosphere for clients. Monitored in store stock, and transferred in and transferred out stock to other stores and clients. Handled monetary transactions, as well as counted down the drawer at the end of the night. Participated in bank runs and preparing change requests.     SKILLS: Interact with guests in such a manner that they feel welcomed and comfortable. Ability to match colors and patterns to each other, and to specific events that the clothes are being purchased for. Properly measured guests, and recommended properly fitting clothes based on the measurements. Recommended custom tailoring to ensure the proper comfort level of each article of clothing when required. Provided tie tying classes to guests and employees teaching a variety of techniques, as well as how to tie a bow tie. Customer service skills from interacting with members of society. Cyber Range Lab Assistant Gulf Coast State College October 2015 to August 2016 Duties, Accomplishments, and Related Skills:  DUTIES: Tested, corrected, documented, and implemented labs for classes per instructor request. Mentored students in the areas of networking, hardware, software, system administration, network administration, ethical hacking techniques, and troubleshooting. Instructed classes when instructors were unavailable. Setup, used, troubleshot and corrected issues with network connectivity with Cisco routers and switches. Setup, used, troubleshot and corrected issues with Windows servers, and end-user devices including Windows 7 desktop and laptops. Designed, implemented, and maintained networks for classes, labs, and projects. Setup, used and troubleshot Active Directory, Group Policy, DNS, DHCP, PXE, and file sharing services. Implemented proper techniques to trace and map network. Built and deployed specific images across the network for classes and projects using Windows AIK and PXE. Used tools such as NMAP, Metasploit, password cracking software, and Wireshark to test, evaluate, and implement network security.     Skills: Troubleshoot hardware and software issues on Windows and Linux based servers and end-user Windows and Linux devices such as desktops and laptops on a daily basis. Troubleshoot configuration issues on networking gear, servers, and end-user devices on a daily basis. Design, implement, and maintain network infrastructure, using Cisco routers and switches. Ability to configure Cisco Routers and Switches. Experienced in setting up, using, and maintaining different distributions of Linux: Ubuntu Server, Ubuntu Desktop, Fedora Server, Fedora Desktop, and Kali. Possess the ability to use ethical hacking tools and techniques to test network and system security, and provide proper solutions to issues discovered. Use of protocol analyzers to further the penetration testing of network security. Experienced in setting up, maintaining, and troubleshooting Windows Server 2008R2 and Windows Server 2012R2. Server 2012R2 in Core, hybrid, and full GUI modes. Classroom experience in virtualization software, building and moving virtual machines in Oracle Virtual Box, VMWare Workstation 12, and VMWare Workstation PRO on end-user machines. Trained in the use of Hyper-V to virtualize servers. Experienced in installing, maintaining, and troubleshooting Windows XP, Vista, 7, 8, 8.1, and 10. Familiar with using Python, Ruby, Java, Batch, and Bash languages. Leadership skills which include scheduling individuals and groups to complete certain tasks with a set deadline.     Participated and lead over 50 cyber security and awareness demonstrations and trainings to local business owners, schools, and DoD and Foreign Allies. Sales Associate (Part Time) The Men's Wearhouse July 2014 to November 2015 Duties, Accomplishments, and Related Skills:   DUTIES: Greet and service clients with a welcoming attitude. Listen to what the client is requiring, and suggest suits and accessories that best fit their requirements. Maintain store cleanliness and organization. Assists workers require it. Assist with training new employees on the practices and standards used by the company. Properly handle monetary transactions. Setup and plan groom and groomsmen outfits for weddings, to ensure the bride and groom are getting what they envisioned.     SKILLS: Interact with guests in such a manner that they feel welcomed and comfortable. Ability to match colors and patterns to each other, and to specific events that the clothes are being purchased for. Properly measured guests, and recommended properly fitting clothes based on the measurements. Recommended custom tailoring to ensure the proper comfort level of each article of clothing when required. Provided tie tying classes to guests and employees teaching a variety of techniques, as well as how to tie a bow tie. Customer service skills from interacting with members of society. Education Associate of Science in Cyber Security Gulf Coast State College August 2016 Skills It Security, Cyber Security, Information Security, Comptia, Compliance Military Service Branch: U.S. Navy Service Country: United States Rank: E2 November 2011 to May 2012 Awards Cybersecurity Outstanding Student of the Year 2016-05 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ March 2016 to March 2019 CompTIA Network+ June 2016 to June 2019 CompTIA A+ October 2018 to October 2021 Sophos XG Engineer February 2018 to February 2021 Barracuda Engineer May 2018 to May 2021 Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) R/S November 2018 to November 2018 CompTIA Cloud Essentials November 2018 to Present Groups Phi Theta Kappa Honor Society Present Corps Tigris Honor Society Present Green Knights Military Motorcycle Club June 2014 to Present American Legion November 2013 to Present Additional Information SKILLS    • Troubleshooting hardware/software • Network Infrastructure • Linux (Kali, Ubuntu, Fedora); Python  • Ethical Hacking Defense Capabilities • Network Security • Microsoft Server 2008R2, 2012R2  • Penetration Testing • Virtualization Software (Hyper-V, VMware) • Associate Management  • Vulnerability Testing • Windows XP, Vista, 7, 8, 10 • Time Management and Customer Service