IT Security Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Security Analyst - MVP Health Care Albany, NY Work Experience IT Security Analyst MVP Health Care - Schenectady, NY June 2016 to Present • Ensures proper security measures and controls are in place to maintain integrity of core business applications and systems.  • Ensures proper information security controls and mechanisms are implemented within MVP's information systems and oversight of third parties with whom MVP shares sensitive information.  • Configures and maintains security applications which include identity management and access recertification, security event management, intrusion detection, vulnerability scanning, and other security monitoring applications.  • Monitors both Windows and Linux environment platforms  • Assists team in creation and development of technical and functional processes to support information security control activities and objectives.  • Assists in execution of security assessments of core applications and IT systems to identify potential risks, evaluate internal controls, and ensure information security requirements are upheld.  • Deploys re-certification campaigns at the manager, generic account, and privileged account level in addition to overseeing team activities related to monitoring information systems to ensure appropriate information access levels and authorizations are maintained.  • Point-person from the Security team to work heavily with the Compliance team to ensure SOC, MAR, SSAE18 IT Audit requirements are met.  • Works with programs like Sailpoint IdentityIQ, IBM QRadar, Qualys, and StealthAUDIT analyzing results to ensure proper user access management and sensitive data lockdown.  • Assists in defining security requirements to be included as part of business application and technology implementations.  • Recognizes and identifies areas where security policies and procedures require change or new ones need development and updates as needed.  • Conducts research on emerging products, services, protocols and standards in support of security enhancement/development efforts. Data Security IT/Systems Administrator Osprey Software Development - Albany, NY September 2015 to May 2016 • Security (Encryption on both wired and wireless network, and PC's)  • Access to Spiceworks for inter-office tickets on computer/network-related issues  • Administrative access to Virtual Machines to deploy and test security software  • Configure Remote Desktop Manager and monitor  • Machine configuration process / traffic monitoring / company inventory  • Upload and download usage updated every few seconds  • Data usage/websites by IP or device Learning Management Systems - Student Assistant SUNY System Administration - Albany, NY May 2014 to November 2015 • Provides basic technical and navigational phone and chat support to students interested in online courses at any SUNY college  • Communicates with prospective and current students by telephone, email or live chat to assist with navigation, settings issues, gathering information, and resolving issues related to courses on a Blackboard/ANGEL/Moodle  • Tests websites and other self-support resources for usability and quality assurance and are expected to communicate suggestions and findings.  • Logs information into ticketing system (Numara Footprints) and maintains and updates tickets as needed. Information Technology Intern SUNY System Administration - Watervliet, NY May 2014 to November 2014 • Maintains and performs updates security as necessary on all devices  • Trains employees on how to be more technologically adapted to programs such as Skype, Microsoft Outlook, Facebook, Twitter  • Create and update company website and up keep social media accounts  • Maintains network connectivity and keeps it up to speed  • Adds/removes/edits users and creates passwords for each user  • Connect PC's and laptops to a remote desktop connection.  • Manages the server and backs it up consistently  • Installs new computers and programs as necessary. Accounting Assistant Diamond Realty Management - Watervliet, NY June 2013 to November 2014 • Balances financial statements/ Reconciles over 150 bank accounts monthly  • Assists Controller, Accounts Payable and Accounts Receivable to ensure that monthly, quarterly, and yearly duties are fulfilled efficiently. Webmaster & Culture Chair UAlbany Muslim Students Association - Albany, NY May 2013 to July 2014 • Manages and updates website and examines and analyzes site traffic.  • Tests website for any errors/bugs, fixes broken links/images  • Works with other student groups on campus to plan successful inter-association events Education B.S. in Informatics University at Albany - Albany, NY May 2016