Security Operations Analyst <span class="hl">Security</span> Operations <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Security Operations Analyst Jackson, MS Information Technology professional with industry experience, certification and training. Motivated and focused to grow in the field. Seeking a position that will utilize my education, experience and drive. Work Experience Security Operations Analyst HBC - Jackson, MS August 2018 to Present • I'm responsible for watching all log traffic traveling in and out of network   • I provide feedback to engineers for tuning of devices regarding alerts  • I investigate alerts with a priority of at least 4 in our environment  • I decide if files should be removed from devices or white listed to be allowed  • I also remove files and application deemed malicious  • I monitor all company email for potential malware present or vulnerabilities  • Advise all levels of employees on how to handle potentially malicious email  • I prepare log reports for yearly compliance  • I was a lead for my office in Carbon Black deployment project  • I prepare reports and details for escalation of events to various departments including Security engineers, desktop team, server team etc.    Technical Support Specialist/Tier II Lead Leidos Holdings - Clinton, MS August 2017 to August 2018 • Promoted To Technical Lead.  • Part of the Win 10 Team Testing for Company Deployment.  • I Write Training Articles for Company's Knowledge Base to train new techs.  • I provide all levels of Windows Desktop Support.  • I work in a secure 2 Factor Authentication environment.  • PKI and OTP Token Support/Configuration  • I am proficient with Active Directory  • Adding and Moving AD Objects.  • Adding Computers to the Domain  • I use Splunk to track security and network alerts.  • I provide Mobileiron Support for secure email on mobile devices.  • I support the Microsoft Office Suite  • I am familiar with Bomgar remote software to provide support.  • I use ServiceNow ticketing system to meed SLA requirements. I.T. Analyst HBC / Saks Inc - Jackson, MS June 2015 to August 2018 • I provided Help Desk Support for all HBC Systems.  • I used Active Directory (Windows, Linux Based) to support all level associates.  • Provided Tier 1 Troubleshooting for POS Hardware and Software.  • I provided technical support for Apple Devices and Android Phones.  • I provided Hardware Support for laptops, desktops, thin clients and RF Scanners.  • II was responsible for Citrix account support.  • Worked with a Mainframe environment to support printers and batch processes.  • I provided TRMS reporting and troubleshooting.  • Credit Reports Adjunct NETworking Instructor Virginia College - Jackson, MS March 2015 to August 2015 • 30% of my students become certified.  • I taught Cisco configuration and troubleshooting.  • I also taught Microsoft installation and administration.  • I mainly focused on Networking and security.  • A big focus point for students was teaching the art of Sub-netting. Network Admin/ Field Technician Cartridge On Wheel - Ridgeland, MS February 2015 to June 2015 • I provided Remote Desktop support MFP clients.  • I also gave advice for Field Solutions for Windows environment.  • I fascilitated Network printer installation, configuration and troubleshooting.  • Implemented mobile devices for field techs and transferred their service  Manuals to tablets for ease of access and to increase productivity. Education Associate of Applied Science in computer networking ITT Technical Institute - Madison, MS June 2012 Bachelor of Science in Information Technology Mississippi Valley State University - Itta Bena, MS May 2003 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY (4 years), LINUX (2 years), NETWORKING (3 years), SSO (1 year), Microsoft Office Suite (3 years), Microsoft Exchange/Outlook (3 years), Remote Support (4 years), ServiceNow (1 year), Altiris (1 year), SCCM (Less than 1 year), Windows (5 years), Splunk (Less than 1 year), Mainframe (2 years), Help Desk, security, Microsoft Office, training, access Certifications/Licenses Network+ May 2015 to May 2021 Security+ May 2018 to May 2021