Security Researcher <span class="hl">Security</span> Researcher Security Researcher - Augusta University ? Expertise in Python, Powershell, and Bash  ? Broad experience with C, C#, Haskell and JavaScript  ? Strong experience with Linux-based technologies  ? Strong experience with embedded systems technologies and languages  ? Systems engineering experience with ELK and virtual systems  ? Experience with mapping, analyzing, and determining vulnerabilities in embedded and medical control systems  ? Experience with developing tools and reverse engineering automation  ? Excellent communication skills Work Experience Security Researcher Augusta University 2018 to Present Tested and analyzed hardware and software vulnerabilities of medical control systems  ? Developed and recorded research methods  ? Established a proficiency with x86 and ARM hardware reverse engineering  ? Developed tools and reverse engineering automations  ? Presented research at BSides Augusta 2018  ? White paper submission to IEEE SoutheastCon 2019 Cyber Security Analyst Crosslink Consulting 2017 to 2019 Deployed Nagios to monitor network activity  ? Installed and configured Security Onion and Elastic Stack to monitor client networks  ? Demonstrated proficiency with Snort, Squil, Wireshark, pfSense, OSSEC, and BPF  ? Improved entire network security architecture and security posture for clients  ? Created and maintained flow pipelines to monitor security infrastructure IT Technician Augusta University 2015 to 2018 UNIX & Windows jr system administration responsibilities  ? VMware and NDG NetLab+ deployment  ? Datacenter maintenance and upkeep Technical Staff Augusta University 2016 to 2016 Taught basic principles of ethical hacking  ? Introduced students to Bash and Python  ? Technical staff maintaining computer systems used throughout the camp    COLLEGIATE ACTIVITY  ? Captain of the Cyber Institute Collegiate Cyber Defense Team  ? Maintainer of Augusta University Cyber Research Lab  ? Treasurer of the ACM August University Chapter Education B.Sc. in Computer Science in Computer Science Augusta University Links http://github.com/xnorkl