Information Security Analyst Information <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Information Security Analyst - AISEC GROUP Grayson, GA Dedicated and highly driven Security Assessment and Authorization [A&A] professional, knowledgeable in Risk Management Framework (RMF), Systems Development Life Cycle (SDLC), and vulnerability management using applicable NIST standards. A proven goal-getter and team lead with strong positive customer service. Work Experience Information Security Analyst AISEC GROUP - Philadelphia, PA January 2018 to Present • Supports and maintains Identity Access Management tools.  • Support the review of all ATO package documentation for compliance with the agency and FedRAMP security requirements  • Develop, review and update Security plans (SP), Contingency plans (CP), Contingency plan tests (CPT), Privacy Impact Assessments (PIA), and Risk Assessment (RA) documents per NIST 800 guidelines.  • Updating systems baseline controls to align with NIST 800-53 security requirements.  • Reviewed analysis on NIST 1800-12 Derived Personal Identity Verification (PIV) Credentials-Draft publication.  • Develop and update all Contingency Planning Training and Testing related documents including completing After-Action Report.  • Conducting Risk Assessment (RA) and completing NIST 800-37 Risk Management Framework (RMF) process to obtain ATO  • Updating applicable RMF documents to ensure they comply with newly upgraded NIST 800-37r2  • Document the application level controls that include security controls implementation statements.  • Ensures that systems security requirements comply with FISMA standards.  • Working with Management in determining and recommending Information assurance governance structure to protect IT resources.  • Developing, reviewing and updating information system policies and procedures governing security best practices for assigned systems.  • Reviewed completed security Policies and Procedures for completeness, accuracy, and quality.  • Support the review of all Cloud Service Provider and ATO package documentation for compliance with the agency and FedRAMP security requirements.  • Creating, reviewing and updating ATO package documents such as SSP, SAR, POA&M, IR, SAP, DRP, BIA, PTA, RA, ISCP, and CPT.  • Experience with conducting Risk Assessment (RA) and completing Risk Management Framework (RMF) process to obtain ATO.  • Performing security packages validation to ensure completeness on Risk Assessment, (RA), FIPS-199 Security Categorization, PTA, PIA, SORN, and E-authentication.  • Monitor controls post authorization to ensure continuous compliance with the security requirement  • Document and Review security plans (SP), contingency plans (CP), contingency plan tests (CPT), privacy impact assessments (PIA), and risk assessment (RA) documents per NIST 800 guidelines for various government agencies.  • Work with ISSOs to ensure documenting and remediating audit findings, security planning and reporting, and mitigation of security vulnerabilities are completed in a timely manner.  • Assisted system owners on policies and procedures development.  • Ensures that systems stakeholders adhere strictly to the government regulatory standards and guidance such as FISMA.  • Perform risk assessments for on diverse application systems - including reviewing evidence, interviewing personnel, tests and inspections, producing assessment reports and recommendations.  • Evaluate security assessment documentation and provide written recommendations for security authorization to the AO.  • Conducting Vulnerability scanning and assessment of report using tools such as Nessus HP WebInspect and HP Fortify.  • Experienced using centralized security document repository such as MS SharePoint, CFACTS, Modulo and DM 36O to manage deliverables. IT Security Analyst 4 SQUARE IT CONSULTING - Houston, TX July 2014 to January 2018 • Conduct Assessment & Authorization (A&A) Kick-off Meetings.  • Conduct IT Controls risk assessment to identify system threats, vulnerabilities, risks, and generate reports. Develop and Conduct Security Test and Evaluation (ST&E) according to NIST SP 800-53A.  • Developed, reviewed and updated security Policies and Procedure.  • Monitor controls post authorization to ensure continuous compliance with the security requirements.  • Performed GAP analysis to identify controls changes from NIST-800 53 rev 3 to NIST-800 53 rev 4 and updated security plans and relevant documents to reflect the changes.  • Help facilitate and support the Ongoing Authorization Program for the organization.  • Reviewed completed security documentation for completeness, accuracy, and quality.  • Provide support to configuration management and control processes to integrate security and risk management.  • Conducted security impact analyses of security controls based on proposed system changes.  • Document the application level controls that include security controls in a narrative format.  • Support the preparation of security test plans, execute and assess the security control effectiveness using security control, test procedures, and create Security Assessment Reports (SAR) based on assessment findings.  • Familiar with NIST Publications SP 800-18, SP 800-30, SP 800-37 rev 1, SP 800-53 rev 4, SP 800-53A, SP 800-60 and FIPS 199 and FIPS 200.  • Assist the system owner with defining security objectives and system performance requirements.  • Works with the system administrators to examine and test the security posture of the systems and applications  • Conduct Security Assessment via document examination, interviews and manual assessments.  • Create, review and update POA&M documents  • Implementing, reviewing, maintaining and continuous monitoring for control systems in accordance to FISMA guidelines, NIST 800-137 Education Master in IT in IT/CYBER SECURITY Florida Institute of Technology Bachelor of Arts Ahmadu Bello University Zaria Skills Security, Life cycle, Sdlc, Systems development, Risk assessment, Security plan, Systems security, testing, Microsoft Office Certifications/Licenses Certified ScrumMaster (CSM) July 2019 to Present Additional Information Areas of expertise include:  • Risk and Management Compliance  • Cloud Security  • Information Systems Security Plan  • Vulnerability Review and Analysis  • Privacy Impact Assessment  • POA&M Management  • Business Impact Analysis  • Systems Risk Assessment  • Systems Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  • Identity Access Management (SCA)  • Security Control Assessment  • Web Application Security and Penetration Testing  • Authorization and Assessment (A&A Package)