IT Security Data Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> Data <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Data Analyst, MBA Summerville, SC Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Security Data Analyst CVS Health January 2018 to June 2018 Responsible for analyzing and reviewing authorized access on 6500+ servers and 700K+ active and inactive users determining credible network and application access.  • Coordinate meetings and upheld due dates to ensure timely action of cross functional team members at multiple corporate locations  • Ensured SOX and PII application provisioning for users in under three months while maintaining 100% accuracy  • Led SharePoint initiative to combine company-wide documents for quick and secure access to any required documents Data Analyst United States Air Force - Luke AFB, AZ 2013 to November 2017 Accountable for ensuring data integrity to ensure success of aircraft maintenance data and success of employees. Created and managed F-35 Data Analysis section and products for the F-35 aircraft at Luke Air Force Base.  • Selected as senior analyst of F-35 analysis to compile and prepare custom aircraft maintenance statistics. Created data analysis products/special studies to efficiently and effectively track aircraft maintenance metrics.  • Provide guidance and assistance to cross-functional agencies regarding data and analytical metrics for long and short-term objectives. Scrutinized products to improve data accuracy. Extracted maintenance data from various database sources and external work centers.  • Composed fleet health/metric briefings to senior leadership to provide essential metrics for fleet planning.  • Developed data consolidation product to centralize aircraft data and reduce labor for data compilation. Data Analyst United States Air Force - Shaw AFB, SC 2009 to 2013 Accountable for ensuring data integrity and vital communication lines to ensure success of aircraft maintenance data. Tracked and managed performance indicators for 23 different aircraft types and 323 deployed aircraft.  • Managed database for 18 units, 212 work centers and 2,000+ users among 80 organizations  • Scrutinized products to improve data accuracy and monitor deployed maintenance data to identify and solve key negative trends impacting sortie production.  • Assessed data integrity shortfalls in the AOR and setup IMDS reach-back support to achieve uninterrupted data flow.  • Created new database work centers to load vehicles into database for tracking/visibility of communication equipment  • Deployed in 2010. Analyzed F-16, F-15, C-130, MC-12, and HH-60 aircraft maintenance data. Selected as vehicle control officer to manage 100+ Air Force flight line vehicles at deployed location.  • Completed terminal security updates in IMDS to eliminate unauthorized use and maintain database integrity Education Masters of Business Administration in Business Administration Ashford University December 2015 Bachelors of Arts in Organizational Leadership Ashford University March 2013 Associates of Applied Science in Business Information Systems Sinclair Community College 2008 Skills DATABASE (8 years), MAINTENANCE (8 years), BUSINESS ANALYSIS (Less than 1 year), DATA ANALYTICS (10+ years), DATABASE MANAGEMENT (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Professional and business background with a drive for efficiency and improvement. Supervisory background with the ability to synthesize technical data and complicated scenarios. Goal-oriented, analytical, and flexible employee capable of working independently or as part of team. Self-motivated leader with a history of motivating employees to exceed expectations beyond required responsibilities.    KEY STRENGTHS  Data Analytics/Presentation Technical Maintenance Database Management  Maintenance Management Training Management SharePoint  Personnel Supervision Business Analysis Microsoft Office