IT Coordinator / Network Security Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> Coordinator / Network <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Coordinator / Network Security Analyst - Cap Barbell Houston, TX Opportunity to utilize skill set and acumen for an organization that will benefit from significant experience and in return provide an opportunity to satisfy thirst for professional learning and advancement. Utilize achievements, skills, strategic thinking and leadership abilities. Work Experience IT Coordinator / Network Security Analyst Cap Barbell June 2018 to Present • Monitor day-to-day computer and information systems operations; observe systems for problems/malfunctions and take correction action as appropriate; analyze problems to determine problem source(s) and formulate and implement preventive measures.  • Troubleshoot problems, including problem definitions; analyze user requirements, and develop and design solutions.  • Plan, install, and maintain telecommunications equipment and systems; upgrade equipment and related applications.  • Research, evaluate, and recommend hardware and software products and assess relative to compatibility with existing systems  • Provide training and support services for computer and communication system users; assist users in resolving problems with available technology; organize and coordinate activities of various user groups.  • Prepare various reports and correspondence; maintain records and files of operational activities.  • Provide technical support of all networked devices within a Microsoft environment, as well as cloud services (PCs, printers, servers, RF bar code scanning units, etc.) both locally and remotely.  • Support IT systems, Active Directory, Windows Server OS, network device management, TCP/IP configuration, Static IP, VoIP telephony, and deskside devices for customers.  • Technical support at the network level: WAN and LAN connectivity, routers, firewalls, and security.  • Monitor the remote monitoring and management system alerts and notifications, and respond accordingly through service tickets.  • Follow established workflow procedures for monitoring, tracking and responding to requests received through the IT helpdesk ticketing system.  • Escalate complex issues to Sr. IT Manager and/or 3rd Party Vendors as appropriate.  • Management of data backup systems (onsite backup as well as off-site backup).  • Supports and maintains user account information including rights, security and groups.  • Train team on technology concepts, software, and equipment. IT Support Johnson Development November 2013 to June 2018 • Monitored security tools and systems for suspicious activity  • Facilitate and coordinate IT projects and their integration with corporate services  • Analyzes data to extract market and business trends to increase profit, performance and efficiency  • Assist the Director of Security with audits and compliance status updates  • Knowledge of the systems engineering process (SEP)  • Assist to Design and implement solutions for Network security  • Test and deploy new security technology  • Monitor security service request and Resolve or escalate production security issues  • Implement all changes to security infrastructure in accordance with standard procedures and change control policies and procedures  • Actively participate and assist in managing organizational information security awareness efforts Computer Lab Assistant University Of Tulsa January 2011 to December 2014 • Forwards information by receiving and distributing communications; collecting and mailing correspondence; copying information.  • Maintains supplies by checking stock to determine inventory levels; anticipating requirements; placing and expediting orders; verifying receipt; stocking items; delivering supplies to work stations.  • Maintains equipment by completing preventive maintenance; troubleshooting failures; calling for repairs; monitoring equipment operation; monitoring and purchasing meter fund  • Maintains office schedule by picking-up and delivering items using automobile.  • Serves customers by backing-up receptionist; answering questions; forwarding messages; confirming customer order status.  • Updates job knowledge by participating in educational opportunities.  • Enhances organization reputation by accepting ownership for accomplishing new and different requests; exploring opportunities to add value to job accomplishments. Education Bachelors in Mathematics University of Tulsa - Tulsa, OK 2014 Skills Security, Active Directory Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ CompTIA Network+ CompTIA Security+