IT Security Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Security Analyst - Soft Inc New York, NY Work Experience IT Security Analyst Soft Inc - New York, NY April 2019 to Present Conducted risk assessments for COTS products and in house developed applications using the NIST framework.  ? Performed automated application vulnerability assessments to advise the stakeholders on the risk levels inherent in the current deployment.  ? Created an automated workflow checklist, using VBA scripts/macros, to improve the productivity on the team in conducting their reviews and add consistency to the review process.  ? Background cleared by the Federal Reserve Bank to work on related systems containing PII.  Technical Proficiencies: Network security, application penetration testing, scripting, risk analysis IT Security Analyst NYU Winthrop - Mineola, NY May 2017 to April 2019 Responsible for weekly scanning with Nessus and generation of reports to advise the infrastructure team on remediation efforts.  ? Reviewed the firewall logs daily for suspicious traffic going to unsanctioned IP addresses.  ? Created scripts to automate log collection and reporting to ensure efficient and consistent reports to management.  ? Investigated security events through the use of a managed security service.  ? Performed application and hardware risk reviews using the NIST framework and HIPAA compliance where communicating with software/hardware vendors the compliance needs of the organization.  ? Delivered a weekly security awareness presentation, with question and answer portions, to all on-boarded staff as part of the security training initiative..  ? Monitor multiple feeds from various outlets regarding the latest vulnerabilities and advising management of possible weaknesses in the systems.  ? Coached multiple team members in achieving their CISSP certification.  Technical Proficiencies: Risk analysis, scripting, reporting, compliance, threat analysis, identification of indicators of compromise, vulnerability research, security tools (nmap, Kali Linux, Wireshark, Symantec Managed Services, TrendMicro IMSVA, Websense), network security. IT Security Analyst MDRC - New York, NY June 2010 to May 2017 Performed regular internal vulnerability assessments on the networked assets to meet established security level requirements.  ? Used Metasploit, Nessus, and Kali Linux to validate and remediate vulnerabilities on the servers and public facing websites.  ? Liaised with penetration testing consultants and application security vendors to coordinate external vulnerability assessments to meet compliance needs.  ? Head of response team for addressing alerts coming to the network operations center.  ? Monitor the IDS for alerts then once the threat is verified, implement the incident response procedure for quick remediation if needed.  ? Facilitate audits and regular requests by gathering evidence and tracking progress.  ? Created Python, bash, Powershell, VBA, batch scripts to administer and audit network resources.  ? Sourced, planned, implemented, and maintained the multiple servers to ensure proper functioning during the POC, testing, and production phases.  ? Provided mentoring to team members to help keep the skills of the team as high as possible in order to keep highly skilled team.  ? Investigated, documented, and reported on information security issues and emerging trends so that management can make an educated choice in  ? Created easily understandable documentation and provided instruction to management, as well as staff, on a number of technical material  ? Team lead for the creation, and deployment, of secure systems company wide.  ? Background cleared by the Department of Labor, and the Department of Education to work on systems related that contain PII  Technical Proficiencies: Cisco switches, scripting, security compliance, Network Packet Analyzer (tcpdump), project management, IAM, MFA, SSO, Voice over IP(VoIP), Penetration Testing, Network Security, threat analysis, VLAN, VPN security tools (nmap, Nikto, Kali Linux, Wireshark, Websense, BitDefender), NIST framework, Active Directory, vendor management. Education Bachelor's in Information Systems Security Westwood College - Denver, CO September 2004 to June 2009 Skills Network design, Risk analysis, Technical project management, Coaching, Mentoring, Active Directory, security, training, testing, access, Microsoft Office Certifications/Licenses Security + Present CeH Present GIAC GPEN Present GIAC GWAPT Present CISSP Present Additional Information Areas of Expertise  ? Vulnerability Management  ? Risk Analysis  ? Documentation Creation  ? Expert Level Troubleshooting    ? Compliance  ? Process Creation  ? Technical Project Management  ? Network Design/Implementation  ? Secure Architecture    ? Vulnerability Research  ? Mentoring/Coaching  ? Network Engineering  ? Penetration Testing