IT Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Analyst Irvine, CA Work Experience IT Analyst Apple Inc March 2016 to December 2017 Member of the Tier1 Tata Consultancy Service October 2014 to March 2016 2 team managing network and security operations for Apple Inc. across four Datacenters in the USA. This includes direct experience on various network devices like multi-layer network switches (Cisco Nexus series and Juniper MX series), Routers, and Firewalls (Cisco ASA, Juniper SRX).    OCT 2014 - MAR 2016  Specialist | Oncor Electric Delivery Company  Company: HCL Technologies, India  Part of a Shared Global SOC Operations team managing 3 US-based customer accounts such as Oncor electric delivery Company, Dr. Pepper Snapple Group and MTaaS (HCL Internal). This includes deploying, managing and troubleshooting cases on various Firewalls and VPN Technologies (Site-to-Site IPSEC and AnyConnect VPN) following strict SLA based timelines and ITIL standards. Administration role in assigning RSA tokens in relation with Anyconnect VPN client and troubleshooting the issues related with it. Security Analyst British Telecommunications Group PLC April 2011 to September 2014 Company: Tech Mahindra Ltd, India  Member of the Security Operation Centre team for MSS (Managed Security Services) Projects.  Worked as a contractor for British telecommunication's Global SOC Operations managing its internal network. This included managing multiple Firewalls (Cisco ASA, Checkpoint NGX) at different points in the network. Network monitoring and alerts triage was part of the proactive approach to maintaining high level of service. Analysing and implementing the changes related to security policies, NAT and VPNs on the firewalls Education M.S. in Computer Information System in CONCENTRATIONS Grand Valley State University - Grand Rapids, MI April 2019 B.E. Electronics and Telecommunications / Nagpur University - Nagpur, Maharashtra June 2009 Skills Cisco, Firewalls, Itil, Nagios, Network security Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/vineet-james-073986185 https://github.com/jamesvin Additional Information Skills  • Implementation, troubleshooting, & support for various Networking Projects for Global clients.  • Experience of Network security concepts, Routing and switching, Stateful firewalls, & VPN Technologies.  • First-hand experience in handling Data -Center operations and implementation of new builds.  • Product Exposure on Cisco Nexus Series Switches (7K series, 5K series and 2K fabric extenders), Juniper MX series switches, Cisco, Checkpoint, Juniper Firewalls, Cisco - Routers 7200, RSA Authentication Server.  • Good understanding of software development best practices and Git repositories.  • Experience of automating Network provisioning and configuration tasks utilizing Python scripts.  • Network software Tools: Wireshark Packet Analyzer, Nagios Monitoring Tool, FTK Imager.    • Incident/Change Management Tools: BMC Remedy, HP Service-Manager, Apple Central-Station (ServiceNow).  Understanding of RESTful web services, JSON, XML  • Knowledge of virtualization environment of both servers and applications along with the use of hypervisor technologies  • Understanding of cloud infrastructure and technologies using AWS.  • Following ITIL process including Incident, Change management and SLAs.  • Scripting languages - Python, Vanilla JavaScript.  • Understanding and deploying Web Applications using MVC Framework - Ruby on Rails and ReactJS - Front-End JavaScript Library in addition to HTML, CSS and Bootstrap.  • Other: Oracle DB, Testing frameworks such as Junit, TestNG, Selenium.