Cloud Security Engineer Cloud <span class="hl">Security</span> Engineer Cloud Security Engineer - McGraw-Hill Education Asbury Park, NJ Work Experience Cloud Security Engineer McGraw-Hill Education - East Windsor, NJ December 2017 to Present •Collaborated with various site reliability engineers and platform teams to perform vulnerability assessments on existing and new infrastructure.  •Developed centralized logging solution between 70+ AWS accounts in order to gather VPC Flow Logs, CloudTrail, and other important logs.  •Deployed various SIEM appliances in our AWS environments while assisting with the validation of logs coming in from different tools/environments.  •Performed risk assessment reviews of Security Groups, IAM, S3, EC2 instances and other AWS services to ensure secure implementation infrastructure.  •Investigated security alerts from our various threat detection tools in the cloud.  •Spearheaded the cleanup of old user/service accounts as well as tracking down the owners of needed service accounts in all of our AWS environments in order to meet audit requirements.  •Assist in evaluating different privileged access management solutions to expand our company’s role based access control program. Jr. Information Security Analyst McGraw-Hill Education January 2016 to December 2017 • Led the vulnerability management program and coordinated with 5 different business units to assess and remediate potential risk which resulted in a 30% reduction of total vulnerabilities.  • Performed threat, vulnerability, and risk assessments and investigations to improve the security posture.  • Established phishing campaigns and information security training sessions to improve overall security awareness in McGraw-Hill Education.  • Developed an automated risk exception process using ServiceNow.  • Performed detailed analysis of potentially malicious emails and responded to any incidents that occurred in this area.  • Aided in the development and operations of the SSL certificate program  • Assisted in incident response using Qradar. IT Security Internship May 2015 to December 2015 • Developed a new vulnerability management program to help identify and secure company assets.  • Learned multiple security tools including: Nexpose and Nessus to perform vulnerability assessments, along with Arbor Cloud DDoS protection.  • Responded to any problems/tickets that arose dealing with vulnerability management.  • Generated weekly and daily vulnerability reports to track and remediate potential vulnerabilities.  • Participated in meetings and calls regarding third-party vendor products in order to establish a working relationship. IT Internship ECHO Realty - Pittsburgh, PA June 2014 to August 2014 • Assisted the system administrator with daily tasks including troubleshooting technical issues, answering service requests and maintaining desktop systems.  • Maintained and organized Active Directory for the entire network system.  • Imaged 50+ desktop computers and laptops in inventory, while upgrading hardware if need be.  • Learned and utilized powershell to automate and carry out daily tasks.  • Interacted with IT Security by managing Active Directory, granting folder and program access, and identifying old user accounts. Education Bachelor of Science(BS in Security and Risk Analysis Pennsylvania State University December 2015 Skills METASPLOIT, NMAP, WIRESHARK, NETWORKING, LINUX, Python, AWS, Devops Certifications/Licenses AWS Certified Solutions Architect - Associate August 2017 to August 2019 AWS Certified Developer - Associate November 2017 to November 2019 Security+ July 2018 to July 2021 Additional Information Technical Skills  • Experience with open source tools such as nmap, Metasploit, wireshark, Kali Linux  • Substantial Unix/Linux experience along with experience in Windows environments and hardening guidelines.  • Experience with Python and bash with minimal experience in powershell and ruby.  • Experience dealing with physical components of PCs such as building, installing and repairing hardware.