Cyber Sercurity Analyst Cyber Sercurity <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Cyber Sercurity Analyst Greenbelt, MD Work Experience Cyber Sercurity Analyst Department of Labor - Washington, DC August 2014 to March 2019 • Created, updated and revised System Security Plans, Contingency Plans, Incident Response Plans/Reports, and Plan of Action & Milestone  • Developed and completed Security Assessments Kick-off Meetings Briefings and populated the Security Requirements Traceability Matrix (SRTM) and Document Request Lists (DRLs) per NIST SP 800-53r4  • Reviewed Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA) and PTA and ensured System of Record Notice (SORN) were published.  • Assembled Security Assessment Packages to include Security Assessment Reports (SARs), Risk Assessment Reports (RARs), Security Controls Assessments (SCA) Reports and POA&Ms  • Briefed Authorizing Official on information systems risks and vulnerabilities in support of the Security Assessment and Authorization process.  • Participated security controls assessment efforts to determine effectiveness (i.e., controls implemented correctly, operating as intended, and meeting security requirements).  • Evaluated vulnerabilities and risks based on Tenable, Nessus and HP Inspect scans reports  • Executed Security Impact Analysis/Risk Assessments/Subsystem Addendums in support of new on-premise and Cloud based applications/application systems.  • Participated in Configuration Management (CM) activities and weekly Change Control Board (CCB) Meetings in support of changes to the authorized baselines for information systems.  • Monitored security controls post authorization to ensure continuous compliance with the security requirements.  • Reviewed and updated some of the system categorization using FIPS 199, Initial Risk Assessment, E-authentication, PTA, PIA, SAR, SSP, SAP& POA&M. IT Security Specialist | Robert Half Technology US Department of Transportation - Washington, DC June 2012 to August 2014 • Provided input to management on appropriate FIPS 199 impact level designations and selecting appropriate security controls.  • Oversee the preparation of Assessment and Authorization (A&A) packages for submission to the Authorizing Official (AO) for an Authorization to Operate (ATO).  • Performed evaluation of policies, procedures, and analyzed security scan results, to address controls that were deemed insufficient during Assessment and Authorization (A&A).  • Authentication with business owners and Performed Security Categorization (FIPS 199), Privacy Threshold Analysis (PTA), E-d selected stakeholders.  • Monitored controls post authorization to ensure continuous compliance in accordance with FISMA guidelines.  • Generated, reviewed and updated System Security Plans (SSP) against NIST 800-18 and NIST 800 53 requirements.  • Documented and reviewed System Security Plan (SSP), Security Assessment Report (SAR), Security Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&M), Authorization letter/memorandum (ATO).  • Developed and conducted ST&E ( Security Test and Evaluation) according to NIST SP 800-53A and perform on-site security testing using vulnerability scanning tools such as Nessus.  • Documented and finalized Security Assessment Report (SAR) and communicate a consolidated risk management activities and deliverables calendar.  • Applied appropriate information security control for Federal Information System based on NIST SP 800-53, FIPS 199, FIPS 200 and OMB A-130 Appendix III  • Created, updated and revise System Security Plans, FISMA and FISCAM audits, Contingency Plans, Incident Reports and Plan of Action & Milestone Education Bs in Computer Science University of Buea