Information Security Analyst Information <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Information Security Analyst Randolph, MA A Security Assessment and Authorization (SA&A) professional knowledgeable in Risk Management Framework (RMF), Systems Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Security Life Cycle and Vulnerability Management using FISMA, and applicable NIST standards. A proven project and team lead with aptitude for good customer service, and excellent communication skills. Functional areas of expertise include:    • Information Systems Security  • Vulnerability Assessment  • System Documentation  • Privacy Policy and Regulations  • Project Management and Support  • POAM Management    • Systems Risk Assessment  • Systems Development Life Cycle  • A&A process Support Work Experience Information Security Analyst Mimecast - Lexington, MA April 2017 to July 2019 • Developed, reviewed and updated Information Security System Policies, System Security Plans (SSP), and Security baselines in accordance with NIST standards, FISMA requirements, OMB III A-130, and industry best security practices.  • Applied appropriate information security controls for Information System based on NIST 800-37 rev1, SP 800-53 rev4, FIPS 199, FIPS 200 and OMB A-130 Appendix III.  • Work with stakeholders to review system and network vulnerability scan reports in order to identify and remediate potential risks.  • Updated IT security policies, procedures, standards, and guidelines according to department and federal requirements.  • Developed and reviewed security artifacts such as System Security Plans (SSP), Plans of Action and Milestones (POA&M), Security Control Assessments, Configuration Management Plans (CMP), Contingency Plans (CP) and Incident Response Plans (IRP).  • Developed Rules of Behavior (RoB), Interconnection Security Agreement (ISA) and Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for system assigned to me.  • Monitored controls post authorization to ensure continuous compliance with the security and regulatory requirements.  • Researched new developments in IT security in order to recommend, develop and implement new security policies, standards, procedures and operating doctrines across a major global enterprise Information Assurance Specialist Veracode - Burlington, MA July 2015 to March 2017 • Reviewed and validated compliant to the Risk Management Framework (RMF) security controls and Plan of Action and Milestones (POAMs) on GSS and Major Systems.  • Evaluated test results, analyzed risk, and developed security assessment documentation to support accreditation decisions.  • Completed Security Authorization packages, to include system security plans, security assessment reports, POAM summaries and a continuous monitoring plan/assessment schedule, and present executive briefing to senior management.  • Responsible for creating a risk mitigation strategy and ensured security configurations were maintained in accordance with the agency mandated policies.  • Ensured system security authorization controls contain accurate implementation statements and assessments results, and the completion of appropriate security artifacts to support findings.  • Developed and maintained a variety of IA related documentation such as A&A packages, SOP, accreditation requests and risk assessments that were consistent with FISMA annual requirements. General IT Support CVS - Cambridge, MA May 2013 to June 2015 • Installing and configuring computer hardware, software, systems, networks, printers and scanners  • Monitoring and maintaining computer systems and networks  • Reviewed user accounts and access on a regular basis to ensure regulatory and corporate compliance.  • Repairing and replacing equipment as necessary  • Setting up accounts for new users  • Testing new technologies  • Providing technical support across Education Biological Science University of Massachusetts - Boston, MA Skills Sharepoint, Nessus, Splunk, Mac, Mac os, Windows xp, Microsoft office Assessments Critical Thinking — Proficient August 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/uh-flkw1bbz-ady Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Technical Proficiencies  Windows XP/Vista/7/8/8.1/10, Mac OS X Microsoft Office Suite, SharePoint, Splunk, McAfee Virus Scan Enterprise, Nessus, GRC RiskVision