IT SECURITY ANALYST <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">SECURITY</span> <span class="hl">ANALYST</span> IT SECURITY ANALYST - FEMDEL LLC Upper Marlboro, MD Work Experience IT SECURITY ANALYST FEMDEL LLC June 2016 to Present • Monitoring and auditing the agency's compliance with Federal Information System Modernization Act (FISMA) compliance areas as defined by the agency. Including configuration management, contingency planning, incident response planning, system security plans, core security control assessments and privileged user security training.  • General knowledge of internal control concepts, principles, risk analysis, FISMA, FEDRAMP, PCI/DSS compliance, HITRUST, HIPAA, privacy process improvement and techniques, including frameworks such as NIST, ISO2700, COSO and COBIT.  • Coordinated with team members to determine security categorizations using FIPS 199 as a guide.  • Working with Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&Ms) trackers to remediate findings and vulnerabilities.  • Worked with security team and ISSO to assess security controls and assess the weaknesses to produce RTM, all findings included in SAR report.  • Experienced in developing and updating SSP (System Security Plans), Contingency Plan, Disaster Recovery Plan, Incident Response Plans, and Configuration Management Plan.  • Conduct IT controls risk assessments that include reviewing organizational policies, standards, procedures and guidelines.  • Conduct meetings with various system team members to gather evidence, develop test plans, testing procedures and documenting test results and exceptions.  • Perform risk assessments and It audits to ensure compliance with policy and security.  • Designate systems and categorize its C.I.A using FIPS 199 and NIST SP 800-60Rev.  • Apply appropriate information security control for Federal Information System as specified by NIST 800-37, SP 800-53 rev4, FIPS 199, FIPS 200 and OMB Circular 130 Appendix III. IT SECURITY ANALYST ANCHORAGE CONSULTING LLC August 2013 to January 2016 • Developed and updated security authorization packages in accordance with agency's requirement that is compliant with FISMA.  • Prepare system packages, ensuring that management, operational, and technical controls are implemented adequately as specified in NIST SP 800-53 Rev4.  • Updated It security policies, procedures, standards and guidelines according to department and agency's requirements.  • Responsible for the System Security Plan (SSP), Risk Assessment Report, Security Assessment Plan (SAP), Contingency Plan, Incident Response Plan, and Standard Operating Procedures (SOP)  • Provide support to internal and external audit teams as required (helped in the gathering and presentation of evidence to validate controls effectiveness and efficiency).  • Led information security awareness and training programs in order to inform the employees of their roles in maintaining a matured security posture.  • Maintained security metrics in order to help senior management to make decisions.  • Involved in third party contract evaluation in order to award contracts to the most cost-effective bidder.  • Configuration of management plan to develop and maintain the Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&Ms) and supported remediation activities with team members.  • Made sure to validate the protective measures for physical security that are in place to support the systems security requirements.  • Maintained an inventory of hardware and software for the information system. Developed, coordinated, and tested with team members on contingency plans and incident response plans.  • Performed risk analysis to determine cost-effective and essential safeguards.  • Performed Security Control Assessments using NIST 800-53A guidance.  • Conducted independent scans of the application, network and database with team members when required.  • Provided continuous monitoring to enforce client security policy and procedures and created processes that will provide oversight into the following activities for the system owner.  • Developed Privacy threshold Analysis (PTA), and Privacy Impact Analysis (PIA) by working closely with other Information System Security Officers, System Owners, Information Owners, and the Privacy Act Officer.  • Developed an e-authentication report to provide technical guidance in the implementation of electronic authentication. ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR CHAVERAN INC May 2011 to May 2013 • Worked as part of a DBA team managing Oracle 10g and 11g databases for Chaveran Inc.  • Primarily worked as an Oracle DBA installing, configuring and upgrading Oracle software and related products on Windows using OFA standards.  • Setup RMAN to backup production, development, and test databases.  • Used Windows Scheduler to schedule tasks  • Created databases, tablespace tables, indexes and other table objects.  • Established the compatibility with third party software products by developing programs for modification and integration.  • Setup and managed database security by creating new users, roles, profiles and provided required privileges.  • Managed database development, test, training, and production environments.  • Configured database auditing as directed by the Senior DBA to enforce business rules.  • Performed database upgrade from 10g to 11gr1.  • Created and maintained procedural documentation/standards.  • Worked hand in hand with Network and System Administration teams to diagnose, test and deploy application issues.  • Refreshed databases with data from production database using data pump utilities.  • Assisted Senior DBA's in developing capacity and performance metrics. HELP DESK ANALYST/ OFFICE ASSISTANT STATE FARM INSURANCE September 2009 to April 2010 • Generated report of issues and resolutions monthly for management review.  • Installed programs for new users and also maximized office efficiency through use of computer programs, including Microsoft Office Suite.  • Interacted effectively and positively with all office and customers.  • Managed firewall, network monitoring and server monitoring both on and offsite.  • Responded to all inquiries and requests in a timely manner.  • Answered and screened phone calls, recording messages for quick reply's as needed. Education BACHELOR OF SCIENCE in INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND STRATEGIC STUDIES UNIVERSITY OF LAGOS - Bowie, MD BACHELORS in CYBERSECURITY UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND UNIVERSITY COLLEGE - Adelphi, MD Skills Nessus, Security, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Vmware Additional Information SKILLS  • MS Office Suite (PowerPoint, Word, Excel, Access)  • Oracle 10g, 11g  • VMware  • Virtual Bos  • Windows OS  • Ubuntu Linux OS    • Security Control Testing  • System Monitoring  • Secure Shell Hosting (SSH)  • Nessus