Security Analyst <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Security Analyst - The Nigbel Group, MD Germantown, MD Work Experience Security Analyst The Nigbel Group, MD April 2015 to Present • Review, analyze and update system security plan, Security Assessment Reports and Plan of action and milestones using NIST and FISMA guidelines.  • Determine security control effectiveness (i.e., controls implemented correctly, operating as intended and meeting security requirements) using NIST 800 53 and 53A (rev 4)  • Ensure implementation of appropriate security controls for information systems based on NIST and FISMA standards  • Perform vulnerability scanning (using Nessus) to detect potential risk associated to assets and review and analyze scans for timely remediation of vulnerabilities.  • Prepare and review security artifacts for assessments and compliance.  • Documenting of findings into the Requirements Traceability Matrix (RTM).  • Preparing security assessment reports and entries into the POAM,  • Updated and maintained IT security policies, procedures and guidelines according to department requirements.  • Conduct meetings with IT team, system owners and other stake holders and deliver reports detailing delinquent security fixes for GSS applications, major and minor applications.  • Collaborate with system administrators to remediate (POA&Ms) findings. Ensure vulnerabilities and risks are efficiently mitigated in accordance with the organization's continuous monitoring plan Security Analyst Noobaid, MD June 2013 to March 2015 • Conducted vulnerability scanning with the support of Tenable Nessus to detect potential risks on a single or multiple asset across the enterprise network.  • Developed and updated Plans of Action and Milestones (from draft to closure) for client's assets to ensure security objectives were met.  • Assisted System Owners in preparing Assessment and authorization package for client's information systems making sure that the management, operational, and technical security controls adhere to NIST standards.  • Maintained the security authorization package in the Cyber Security Assessment and Management (CSAM) system, including updating the System security plan (SSP) and supported documents referenced in the SSP  • Generated and presented reports on security vulnerabilities to both internal and external clients IT Support/Help Desk Technician Noobaid, MD April 2011 to May 2013 • Provided computer help desk support via telephone, email or in person  • Created, worked, and escalated trouble tickets when needed  • Assisted faculty, staff, and students in resolving a variety of technical issues including software installation, network configuration, and operating system malfunctions  • Resolved service tickets or escalated to other support entities as needed using Remedy Ticketing Console  • Conducted vulnerability scanning with the support of Tenable Nessus to detect potential risks on a single or multiple asset across the enterprise network.