Information Security Analyst - Cybersecurity Division Information <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> - Cybersecurity Division Information Security Analyst - Cybersecurity Division - U.S. Patent and Trade Office Fairfax, VA Professional with multiple years of experience in the IT field. Proven track record of strong technology leadership experience along with broad functional expertise. Quickly grasp complex technical and fiscal issues. Trusted for incisive opinions and situational understanding. I am interested in expanding my professional career by seeking new challenges, and utilizing skills that I have obtained over the years. Work Experience Information Security Analyst - Cybersecurity Division U.S. Patent and Trade Office July 2018 to Present Responsible for creating and updating Policy and Procedures, System Security Plan, Contingency Plan, Contingency Plan Test, Risk Assessment Report, System Categorization, Privacy Threshold Assessment, Privacy Impact Analysis, Security Assessment Report, Security Impact Analysis, and the Security Risk Traceability Matrix.  ? Recommend changes to the current strategy on external threat factors and known good cyber protection initiatives.  ? Create detailed remediation reports and recommendations for compliance and security improvements across systems based on constant changing threats.  ? Perform Vulnerability and Compliance scans via Nessus and WebInspect whilst mapping each finding to the NIST SP 800-53 Revision 4.  ? Creating, updating, and maintaining the associated Plan of Action and Milestones (POAM) via CSAM.  ? Responsible for entering POAM findings and POAM ID into RAR and SSP.  ? Provide verbal status reports and written reports, conduct weekly meetings, and attain to the needs of all clients and vendors.  ? Up to date with the latest FISMA, NIST standards, and RMF.  ? Responsible for inputting POAMs into CA Agile Central for tracking purposes Cyber Security Analyst CACI May 2016 to July 2018 Develop and implement documentation outlining system operating environment to include hardware configuration, software, type of information processed, and interconnections to other systems/networks of users, their security personnel, and associated responsibilities.  ? Manage Plan of Action & Milestones (POA&Ms), assisted in vulnerability remediation, and analyzed quarterly scan results of assigned systems.  ? Provide IT security consulting to System Owners in regard to the security documents that are included in the Security Authorization package.  ? Utilize Trusted Agent FISMA (TAF) to input POA&Ms and worked with ISSOs to ensure all POA&Ms were mitigated by the deadline assigned.  ? Implement the latest revisions of NIST SP NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 4, NIST SP 800-53A Rev. 4, and NIST SP 800-37 Rev. 1.  ? Responsible for completing a reauthorization on a Major Application and successfully received the Authorization to Operate (ATO).  ? Create and complete all the documents that are applied in the Security Authorization package.  ? Perform and complete the Contingency Plan Testing (CPT), and ensured all points-of-contact were aware of their duties and responsibilities.  ? Serve as a team lead in a liaison with government clients, guaranteeing a great client/contractor rapport.  ? Complete SA&A packages, and met deliverable by following the project plans set by the Project Manager.  ? Set up meetings and conference calls with all appropriate Points-of-Contact.  ? Serve as lead analyst on multiple projects and packages, worked as a team with other security analysts and initiated peer review sessions on SA&A documents.  ? Complete System Security Plan (SSP), Information Technology Contingency Plan (CP), Disaster Recovery Plan (DRP), Risk Assessment (RA), Rules of Behavior, Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA), Privacy Threshold Assessment (PTA), and Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&M) Report.  ? Responsible for overseeing any interconnection between Information Systems and completed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU).  ? Analyze Nessus vulnerability scans, provided status report, and managed the POAMs using TAF.  ? Conduct kick-off meetings with all stakeholders when required.  ? Keep a professional relationship with the ISO and provided regular updates on the SA&A packages. Help Desk Analyst Reylance Group April 2013 to May 2016 Offer great technical support assistance to staff remotely, by telephone or email.  ? Assist end-users with Microsoft Outlook to create folders, calendar appointments, and view new emails, setting up out-of-office message, email groups, and email accounts.  ? Troubleshoot using Remote Desktop to assist end-users with basic PC/laptop issues including Outlook mailbox maintenance, network printer configuration, remote application installation and hardware configuration.  ? Offer assistance to all using Microsoft Office and Windows 7 Windows 8 and windows 10.  ? Upgrade laptops and desktops Antivirus software.  ? Install desktops computers, laptops, monitors, printers, faxes, keyboards, speakers, and software.  ? Offer great communication skills and written skills to end-users.  ? Offer assistance to all printers & fax machines.  ? Unlock Network account, password reset, and verified admin rights using Active Directory  ? Generate 55-65 tickets using remedy.  ? Provide assistance to end-users having VPN issues.  ? Trouble-Shoot all firefox, explorer and chrome IT related issues.  ? An aspiration to work in fast paced environment with minimal supervision IT Support Specialist Northern Virginia Regional Park Authority November 2009 to April 2013 Possessed an aspiration to work in fast paced environment with minimal supervision.  ? Was able to work separately and instigate administrative improvements.  ? Offered great technical support assistance to users remotely, by telephone, or email.  ? Offered Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and Outlook assistance to users.  ? Generate 25-35 tickets using remedy.  ? Escalated more composite issues to a higher level of support.  ? Fix all printer issues on a regular basis.  ? Great unity and oral skills.  ? Trouble-Shoot all interconnection issues daily. Education Bachelor of Science in international politics George Mason University - Fairfax, VA 2014 Skills REMEDY (6 years), NIST (3 years), ACTIVE DIRECTORY (3 years), MS OFFICE (3 years), PRINTERS (3 years), VPN (3 years), WINDOWS 7 (3 years), ADP (Less than 1 year), MICROSOFT SHAREPOINT (Less than 1 year), PHONE SYSTEM (Less than 1 year), SHAREPOINT (Less than 1 year) Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS  NIST, CSAM, Remedy, MS Office, Communication, Skype, Windows 7/8/10, Explorer, Chrome, Firefox, VPN, Active Directory, Printers, SharePoint, BOMGAR, Remote Desktop Connection, Xceedium, and ADP phone system.