Security Analyst <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Security Analyst Miami, FL Work Experience Security Analyst Postal Center International November 2018 to July 2019 Perform information security daily check list activities.  ? Analyzed security incidents and presented monthly reports to the Executive Team.  ? Ensure potential risks to the information are examined thoroughly.  ? Proficient in policy/procedures creation and implementation.  ? Creates security incident reports and performs follow-up of monitored alerts.  ? Monitor and audit user activity and trends to insure proper use in detecting security violations.  ? Created HIPPA/PCI security training and Security Awareness training documentation for employees.  ? Monitor and audit user activity and trends to insure proper use in detecting security violations.  ? Reviewed monthly, quarterly, and yearly compliance/ security documentation.  ? Provided 24/7/365 systems support as necessary for the diverse needs of the organization.  ? Provide CIO with appropriate status reporting for projects.  ? Prepare and communicate policy reviews at IT Governance meetings.  ? Created and executed Separation of duties/ role access for organization.  ? Document status and create tracking of all policy revisions using SharePoint.  ? Managed Inventory Control for all devices in the organization. Security Administrator HCAS Technology April 2018 to October 2018 Perform information security daily check list activities.  ? Analyzed security incidents and presented monthly reports to the CIO.  ? Review alerts published by FBI, US-Cert and other organizations to keep up-to-date on threat awareness.  ? Proficient in policy/procedures creation and implementation.  ? Managed Third Party Risk Management Tool for clients.  ? Implemented NIST, COBIT, PCI DSS, and HIPPA frameworks for different clients.  ? Created quarterly and annual risk assessments.  ? Created and provided all information security training for all companies and employees.  ? Creates security incident reports and performs follow-up of monitored software alerts.  ? Monitor and audit user activity and trends to insure proper use in detecting security violations.  ? Created 3-year security roadmap for all clients.  ? Create a metrics framework that effectively measures compliance with information security policies and addresses responsible use of technology resources  ? Created HIPPA security training, FWA Training, and Security Awareness training for all clients.  ? Monitor and audit user activity and trends to insure proper use in detecting security violations.  ? Trained new analysts to ensure proper completion of access requests and problem resolution.  ? Provided 24/7/365 systems support as necessary for the diverse needs of the organization.  Accomplishments:  ? Created all HIPPA and PCI policies for all clients that we worked with. IT Security Analyst I ChenMed, LLC May 2013 to January 2018 Perform information security daily check list activities.  ? Monitored compliance with organization's information security policies and procedures.  ? Drafted various policies and procedures.  ? Provided Timely and Relevant Security Reports.  ? Ensure proper recording, documentation and closure of tickets.  ? Conducted risk assessments and suggested security enhancements.  ? Managed all 4,000 endpoints in the organization.  ? Deployed patches monthly via Ivanti service management.  ? Traveled the U.S. markets to deploy and setup the medical center computers, security, and network.  ? Deployed and configured MAC Privileged Access Management for the MAC devices in the environment.  ? Secured company phones using Mobile Device Management (MobileIron).  ? Drafted Standard Operating Procedures for the INFOSEC Department.  ? Performed Monthly Physical Walkthroughs to ensure compliance.  ? Assisted in hardening company's EMR with penetration testing.  Accomplishments:  ? Promoted three times (2013-2017); Suggested/Deployed the company's Cylance Antivirus and Sophos Encryption solution for over 4,000 nodes. Computer Technician/ Help Desk Technical PC February 2011 to March 2013 Provide technical support over the phone and on site.  ? Manage desktop and laptop imaging and deployments.  ? Ensure proper recording, documentation and closure of tickets.  ? Add users to exchange, domains, and workgroups in SBS.  ? Configure Cisco routers, switches, printers and scanners on the network.  ? Troubleshoot all hardware/software issues on site and remotely.  ? Migration of large amounts of data for companies.  ? Perform routine backups on workstations.  ? Network cabling and configuration.  ? Maintain inventory of all hardware and software.  ? Train and coach new staff.  Accomplishments:  ? Successfully backed up and restored a company with 500 employees. Education Associates of Science - Computer in Networking Systems ITT Technical Institute - Miami, FL September 2008 to June 2012 High School Diploma G. Holmes Braddock High School - Miami, FL August 2002 to May 2006 Skills Security, Intrusion, Vulnerability assessment, Intrusion detection, Physical security, Documenting, Audit, Governance, Bilingual, Active Directory, access, testing Additional Information Key Competencies  ? Governance, Compliance & Audit  ? Intrusion Detection and Prevention  ? Threat/ Vulnerability Assessment Management  ? Documenting/ Reporting  ? Web Application Technologies  ? Mobile Device Management  ? Physical Security  ? PHI Security  ? Possess a high level of integrity and ethics.  ? Bilingual (English/Spanish)