Senior IT Engineer Senior <span class="hl">IT</span> Engineer Senior IT Engineer - Midland County Work Experience Senior IT Engineer Midland County - Midland, MI October 2017 to Present Responsible for maintaining Midland County's network infrastructure as well  as implementing, designing, and maintaining current infrastructure.  - End user support for networking, email, phone, and pc's.  - Provides solutions for new products such as virtual servers, phone systems,  network gear and pc's.  - Maintain and update security policies and procedures to ensure CIJIS and HIIPA compliance.    Achievements  - Implemented new storage NAS while replacing old NAS while maintaining  VEEAM backup jobs and replica's.  - Replaced old switches and configured new switches to work for data/phone/  camera system we had for the Midland County Courthouse.  - Launched new security policies and procedures for all of Midland County.  - Lead and assisted with network and security assessments.  - Finalized the transition from physical to virtualization on all servers.  - Lead IT team in Windows 10 upgrade project from Windows 7.  -upgraded 2008 virtual infrastructure to 2019 while maintaining our day to day operations.  -upgrade wireless access infrastructure throught Midland county.  -focal point of ASA to Barracuda firewall upgrade Documentum Analyst Dow Chemical May 2016 to October 2017 October 2014 - April 2016 (1 year 7 months)  • Responsible for sixteen million safety data sheets for our products in all  international plants.  • Assisted an upgrade for our back-end Linux RHEL from 5.7 to 6.4  • Maintained a 24x7 on-call for all servers within Documentum for US, Europe,  and Asia Locations  • Lead projects including transfer of documents within Documentum 5.3 to 6.7  applications servers for Asia Site.  • Built Advanced Document Transformation Services server for new  implementation on Documentum D7 servers.  • Provided technical support for end-users when needed and provided stable  environment for infrastructure. Data Center Admin Dow Chemical May 2014 to October 2014 While working in the North American Datacenter for Dow Chemical these are  my key responsibilities.    Server  -Server Installation  -Server Configuration  -ESX server administration  -Firmware upgrades  -Windows Server patching    Database  -Manage DNS  -Configuration management  -Knowledge for datacenter guidlines    Other Key responsiblities  -Tape Management  -Set mainframe, SAN and storage sytems  -Proactive system monitoring, problem determination, resolution and escalation  -Offsite work processes    Executive IT Support  ~~~~~~    September 2013 - May 2014 (9 months)  Troubleshoot and repair  -Desktop Pc's  -Laptops  -Mobile Devices    Install, troubleshoot and repair  -Printer/Fax machines  -Video Projectors    Participate in PC support activities as a member of the PC Team    Maintain records documenting licensing, versions, and configurations of workstations, peripherals, and software    Execute large-scale software and hardware deployments I.T Security Analyst Rehmann April 2013 to July 2013 Participating in the evaluation, development, and implementation of security  standards, procedures, and guidelines for multiple platforms and diverse  systems environments    Designing network vulnerability scans and providing remediation alternatives    Identifying emerging vulnerabilities and evaluating associated risks and threats IT Help Desk Technician Chemical Bank August 2012 to April 2013 Provide helpdesk support and resolve problems to the end user's satisfaction    Monitor and respond quickly and effectively to requests received through the IT helpdesk    Monitor Service Desk for tickets assigned to the queue and process first-in first-out based on priority    ~~~~~~    Modify configurations, utilities, software default settings, etc. for the local  workstation    Document internal procedures    Assist with onboarding of new users    Ensure each workstation has a computer, monitor, keyboard, mouse, hard  drive, and any additional specialized equipment    Install, test and configure new workstations, peripheral equipment and software Information Security Intern Chemical Bank May 2012 to August 2012 Report to CIO with SIEM Reports    Reviewed alerts on IPS/IDS    Setup meetings and consultations on evolving products    Recommended secure email addon for our emailing client within the Bank. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Networking Davenport University 2010 to 2013 Associate of Arts in Arts and Sciences Davenport University 2010 to 2013 Skills NETWORK SECURITY, TECHNICAL SUPPORT (9 years), ENGINEER (2 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/nathan Additional Information Top Skills  Network Security Experienced Senior Information Technology Engineer with a  Information Security demonstrated history of working anywhere from the government  Technical Support administration industry to fortune 500 petro-chemical companies.  Client facing end to end support every step of the way. Ready to  assist and bring new innovative ways to my end users and company.