IT Technician <span class="hl">IT</span> Technician IT Technician - Velocity Network Erie, PA Work well with team members, but also able to work independently. Hands on experience in administering networks, including configuring and installing cisco networks, and databases.  Experience in customer relationship service and resolving issues with critical thinking skills. Work Experience IT Technician Velocity Network March 2018 to Present Helpdesk Analyst Zippo Manufacturing Company March 2017 to March 2018 Responsibilities include answering help desk tickets as they come in, imaging and deploying new PCs, troubleshooting issues with production PCs. Security Officer Springhill Senior Living September 2015 to March 2018 EMT: Responsibilities include patient care, patrolling of grounds, basic maintenance, ability to deescalate situations, and documentation of incidents. Emergency Medical Technician EmergyCare March 2014 to October 2016 Responsibilities include patient care, apparatus upkeep and restocking, documentation of medical records. Education Erie Institute of Technology - Erie, PA April 2017 High School Diploma Honors Central Tech High School - Erie, PA June 2014 Skills Active Directory (3 years), backups. (3 years), cisco (2 years), Cisco (1 year), Tech Support, Help Desk, Desktop Support, Service Desk, MSP (2 years), VPN, Helpdesk Support, Computer Repair, It Specialist, Information Technology, Network Support Additional Information IT Skills    * Configurations as pertaining to Active Directory Domain Services  * Understand the layout of networks, along with the security practices  * Windows Servers 2012 & 2016  * Configuration for services, roles, permissions, groups, and user accounts.  * Operating System installation  * Microsoft Exchange Server  * Extensive knowledge of Windows Operating Systems  * DNS and DHCP services and configuration.  * Configure and Troubleshooting computers and their perspective hardware components.  * Oracle Database, along with SQL Programming  * Drives and how to configure Storage Quotas, RAID configurations, and backups.  * Linux Distributions such as Ubuntu, and Fedora.  * Basic knowledge of Subnets and Network Address Classes.  * Microsoft Office 2003, 2010, 2013, 2016, 365  * Programing Cisco routers and switches