IT Director, Chief Information Security Officer <span class="hl">IT</span> Director, Chief Information <span class="hl">Security</span> Officer Jacksonville, FL Work Experience IT Director, Chief Information Security Officer River Garden Senior Services - Jacksonville, FL April 2019 to Present ~35 Servers, 15 Switches, 350 Users, 200 Workstations  ? Kept staff on task and on goal for large projects  ? Advised executive management on policy in the context of HIPAA compliance  and network security  ? Continued to perform all duties of Systems Analyst and some Helpdesk Systems Analyst River Garden Senior Services - Jacksonville, FL June 2016 to April 2019 ? Designed and replaced two generations of switch and AP infrastructure  ? Deployed Hyper-V installations in a 'share nothing' topology  ? Deployed VoIP solution with Avaya  ? Deployed MDM and asset tracking that would fit into an ITSM model  ? Managed and maintained entire network infrastructure  ? Managed and maintained entire server infrastructure  ? Assisted Helpdesk staff with escalations Helpdesk Analyst River Garden Senior Services - Jacksonville, FL September 2014 to June 2016 ? Performed password resets and new computer deployments  ? Assisted with Systems Analyst duties Systems Admin III County of McDuffie and City of Thomson - Thomson, GA June 2012 to September 2014 ~20 Servers, 35 Switches, 250 Users, 150 Workstations  ? Physically migrated infrastructure to a new location  ? Assisted with deployment of VoIP solution with Cisco Call Manager  ? Managed and maintained switched network infrastructure  ? Managed and maintained entire server infrastructure  ? Continued to perform all duties of Helpdesk Helpdesk Analyst County of McDuffie and City of Thomson - Thomson, GA May 2010 to June 2012 ? Performed password resets and new computer deployments  ? Assisted with Systems Analyst duties Education Associates in Computer Networking in Computer Networking Augusta Technical College September 2008 to March 2010 Certifications/Licenses Cisco CCNA Routing and Switching Fortinet NSE 4