IT Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Analyst - ATOS Middletown, OH Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Analyst ATOS - Mason, OH August 2018 to July 2019 Was promoted to full time employee and as a result, got switched over from InsightGlobal to ATOS, but doing the same routine listed below IT Analyst InsightGlobal - Mason, OH August 2017 to July 2018 Switched over from NSCGlobal to InsightGlobal due to change in management  ? Assisted various users over the phone with troubleshooting steps  ? Was a team player in assisting Co-workers in various troubleshooting issues  ? Adapted to various proprietary programs  ? Adapted to various users needs and gave best effort on troubleshooting IT Analyst NSCGlobal - Mason, OH August 2016 to July 2017 Assisted various users within The Walt Disney Company  ? Was a team player in assisting Co-workers in various troubleshooting issues  ? Adapted to various proprietary programs  ? Received various recognition awards in going up and beyond the call of duty Warehouse Associate Swimoutlet.com - West Chester, OH March 2016 to July 2016 Improved organizational skills by learning layouts of item locations and storage  ? Developed functionality with unknown operating systems  ? Sorted items into specific locations based on size, price, and other criteria  ? Moved to new departments in order to adapt to warehouse needs Security Officer AlliedBarton - Blue Ash, OH May 2013 to February 2016 for Johnson & Johnson  ? Supervised portions of city wide events such as Red, White, and Blue Ash  ? Trained employees on the rules and guidelines of their positions  ? Applied good work ethic to make the most of regular work hours  ? Focused on changes in my surroundings to maintain a safe work environment Dino Associate Kings Island - Mason, OH April 2011 to September 2013 Received an award for expert knowledge pertaining to the job  ? Commanded a role as a tour guide and was rewarded with high remarks from guests  ? Maintained a stable work environment, filling the role of supervisor as needed  ? Remained calm and focused in hectic circumstances in the workplace Summer Intern News Story Content Creator WLW - Cincinnati, OH June 2010 to August 2010 Created news stories for the 700 WLW website  ? Edited weather audio to take out long pauses and breathing for maximum efficiency  ? Manufactured a promotional broadcast for the Cincinnati Reds Education Associate in Radio & Television Communication Ohio Center for Broadcasting - Cincinnati, OH 2010 to 2011 Skills Active Directory, security, Sharepoint Additional Information My education and job experience has provided me with the skills, preparation, and spirit necessary for a successful job. As a representative, I will effectively utilize my:  ? Passion for making a difference in individual clients' lives  ? Personable phone skills and work relationships  ? Enthusiasm for computer work and desire to educate people about technology  ? Competitive and adaptive nature