Information Security Analyst 3 Information <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> 3 Information Security Analyst 3 - Signature Consultants at Wells Fargo San Antonio, TX Work Experience Information Security Analyst 3 Signature Consultants at Wells Fargo - San Antonio, TX June 2018 to Present Created BoKS roles and access policies to maintain Role Based Access Control to Linux banking applications.  ? Created and modified roles and entitlements in Oracle IAM and PACS 2000 Remedy work request system. Information Security Analyst/Advisor Millennium Group at USAA - San Antonio, TX November 2017 to Present Contract only assignment to provide Identity Access Management.  ? Evaluated provisioning issues and failures and ensured resolution.  ? Analyzed and provided troubleshooting to ensure Role Based Access Control was correctly provisioned for 3rd party call center agents.  ? Documented business processes related to remediation procedures.  ? Document requests for system access into data dashboard.  ? Utilized Service Now ticketing system to address access issues called into USAA's helpdesk. Information Security Analyst/Advisor Experis at Frost Bank - San Antonio, TX April 2018 to June 2018 Performed daily information security monitoring and compliance duties.  ? Performed special security projects at the request of management.  ? Daily monitoring included: File share monitoring, Server compliance, Mainframe security and usage analysis, IPS monitoring, Solarwinds infrastructure monitoring.  ? Tools used: Digital Defense (Frontline), Symantec CCS and DCS, McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator, Cold View ILT, and Splunk. Associate Security Analyst Digital Hands - San Antonio, TX April 2017 to September 2017 Analyzed security incidents, security appliances and created reports for customers.  ? Knowledge of SIEMs, HIPS, and NIPS and security concepts.  ? Extensive use of McAfee Nitro ESM, McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator (ePO), IBM QRadar, Symantec Endpoint Protection Manager (SEPM), Cisco Sourcefire (Firesight), Cisco Identity Services Engine and Cisco IPS Manager Express.  ? Experience creating queries to analyze firewall logs (Palo Alto).  ? Utilized Salesforce and RemedyForce ticketing systems to process security events. EDI Analyst San Antonio, TX August 2016 to March 2017 Monitored SPS Commerce EDI portal for non-compliant transmissions.  ? Provided companywide EDI support.  ? Successfully qualified EDI communication with several trading partners.  ? Utilized Netsuite for A-R duties and for production monitoring.  ? Created reports in Excel, regarding sales data, for senior management.  ? Experience with Wal-Mart Retail Link, AutoZone portal, Home Depot and Amazon's Portal. System Administrator/Manager Rooster Products International - San Antonio, TX March 2016 to July 2016 Managed daily duties and training of one Systems Analyst.  ? Managed Gentran server and associated EDI systems.  ? Created new users in Active Directory and Exchange  ? Provided desktop support as needed.  ? Ran SQL reports using MS SQL Server.  ? Basic database management  ? Managed vendors both retail and technical  ? Maintained custom ERP system and assisted in planning for upgrade to MAS ERP.  ? Maintained warehouse computers, scan gun software and access points.  ? Experience with EDI X12 interchange set. IT Technical Analyst Marriott International - San Antonio, TX August 2014 to September 2015 Imaged Lenovo Windows 7 Workstations for Home and Floor Agents.  ? Managed HP Proliant Servers, VMWare VCenter Server, and HP Switches.  ? Managed one Project Specialist.  ? Applied group policy for network access, and for distribution list access.  ? Utilized EMC Networker and Symantec Backup Exec to restore backed up files and folders.  ? Outlook troubleshooting and .pst file creation.  ? Familiarity with Avaya One-X and Avaya CTI.  ? Experience supporting Mac Book Air Pro with OS X and Thunderbolt display. Security Analyst I Deacon Recruiting at Hangar 9 Solutions - San Antonio, TX September 2013 to March 2014 Researched user security access needed.  ? Processed requests for access to network and healthcare applications  ? Experience in using BMC Footprints to process requests.  ? Active Directory account creation in MS Server 2003/2008.  ? Exchange mailbox creation utilizing Active Directory.  ? Participated in RFA process creation and improvement activities. Subject Matter Expert Technisource at Capital Group Companies - San Antonio, TX July 2012 to September 2013 Managed and supported RSA SecurID access to Cisco AnyConnect VPN.  ? Provided SME level support for Windows 7, Office 2010, and Outlook 2010.  ? Participated in migration activities for Windows 7, Office 2010 and Outlook 2010. Additional application/migration support for Lync 2010/2013.  ? Created and managed accounts for Good Messaging for mobile devices.  ? Created and managed accounts for Airwatch mobile device management.  ? Management of Active Directory accounts.  ? Experience with BMC Remedy ticketing system and BMC Knowledge (KCS) management system. Experience with BMC ARMS application.  ? Created knowledge articles for all areas of support.  ? Supported and managed Lotus Notes 8.5.2 and Lotus Sametime Connect.  ? Supported Blackberry and managed accounts in Blackberry Enterprise Server 5.  ? Created and managed Cisco Wireless Guest Access accounts.  ? Managed SAP production accounts.  ? Provided support for Cisco AnyConnect VPN access.  ? Managed and supported Unity Voicemail accounts.  ? Supported iPhone and other mobile platforms. Setup Airwatch on mobile devices. Network Architect I Bexar County Information Technology - San Antonio, TX December 2011 to May 2012 Created and managed user accounts in Windows Server 2008 R2.  ? Extensive MS Server 2008 R2 Enterprise systems administration experience.  ? Created Exchange mailboxes and ensured correct SMTP addresses and quotas.  ? Utilized Exchange 2007 to manage and create user mailboxes.  ? Utilized BMC Software Service Desk Express to manage tickets and work orders.  ? Managed vbs scripts to allocate network shares to users.  ? Installed Dell R910 servers, in an ESX environment.  ? Assisted with vendor on site visits and vendor remote sessions.  ? Worked with VMWare ESX 4.1 and VSphere client.  ? Managed virtual machines with VMWare VSphere 4.1  ? Setup Lync accounts in Lync server.  ? VMWare VDI administration. Experience with VDI recovery during DR activities. Networking Instructor and Interim Division Director Career Point College - San Antonio, TX July 2009 to January 2010 Managed five networking instructors.  ? Met with senior management to improve retention and to ensure the department meets state standards.  ? Coordinated Advisory Board management meetings  ? Evaluated instructor performance and assigned duties as necessary. Networking Instructor Hallmark College - San Antonio, TX September 2006 to February 2009 Extensive experience installing and configuring of Windows Server 2003 domain  controllers and member servers.  ? Experience with implementation and use of virtualization technology.  ? Extensive teaching experience with MS Server 2003 and 2008 for systems administration.  ? Taught Red Hat Fedora Linux for Linux+ certification courses.  ? Taught command line (BASH shell) for Fedora Linux administration.  ? Taught several sections of the CCNA prep courses.  ? Installed and configured, for a 20-user network, DNS, DHCP, and DHCP scopes.  ? Instructed students in the use of Windows Server 2003 troubleshooting tools.  ? Taught network security concepts in a Security+ class.  ? Taught wireless networking class for CWNA certification. Education San Antonio College 2003 to 2004 M.S. Physics in Sigma Pi Sigma National Physics Southwest Texas State University May 1998 B.S. in Physics University of Texas at Austin - Austin, TX May 1991 Skills Security, Active Directory, access