Agile Team Lead Agile Team Lead Agile Team Lead - USPTO Ashburn, VA Work Experience Agile Team Lead USPTO - Alexandria, VA December 2017 to Present Manage process for entering POA&Ms into Agile Central (Rally)  ? Serve as Product Owner for 3 project teams  ? Enter, manage and prioritize all cybersecurity vulnerabilities as features and user stories for 48 systems  ? Lead daily/weekly/bi-weekly Agile calls  ? Cyber Security point of contact for entering approved internal and contractor system POA&Ms into Agile Central (Rally)  ? Manage all features and user stories in the Cyber Security backlog  ? Communicate cross functionally, ensuring transparency  ? Identify and remove impediments seen by project teams  ? Maintain team boards across multiple delivery teams  ? Facilitate and Manage Project Release Planning and Retrospectives quarterly for each project team  ? Coach project teams on Agile practices and procedures  ? Facilitate Agile initiatives from initiation to release IT Security Program Management Analyst USPTO - Alexandria, VA November 2017 to Present Completing required security documents including security impact analysis  ? Performing required Security Assessment activities and deliverables  ? Work with leadership through the life cycle processes of initiating, planning, executing, controlling, and closeout of cyber security projects.  ? Ensuring that required SDLC activities are completed for Cyber Security projects.  ? Tracking and closing all successfully completed projects and documenting status on ongoing and upcoming projects and tasks for Cyber Security projects  ? Providing reports to senior leadership on required oversight activities as needed.  ? Cyber Security point of contact for entering approved internal and contractor system POA&Ms  ? Cyber Security point of contact for quarterly FISMA Data Call and other data calls assigned to the Cyber Security team.  ? Create, develop and update Policy and Procedures, System Security Plan (SSP), Risk Assessment Report (RAR), Security Assessment Report (SAR), Security Impact Analysis (SIA), and the Security Risk Traceability Matrix (SRTM).  ? Perform Vulnerability and Compliance scans analysis via Nessus and WebInspect whilst mapping each finding to the NIST SP 800-53 Revision 4.  ? Creating, updating, and maintaining the associated Plan of Action and Milestones (POAM) via CSAM.  ? Provide verbal status reports and written reports, conduct weekly meetings, and attain to the needs of all clients and vendors. IT Service Delivery Specialist Fannie Mae - Reston, VA May 2017 to September 2017 Leverage expert knowledge in responsible areas to partner with the business to prioritize technology needs and meet commitments related to responsible services. Ensure alignment with corporate guidelines.  ? Consult with stakeholders and to assess and characterize current processes. Drive ongoing productivity improvement and innovation in partnership with stakeholders.  ? Anticipate internal/external business issues to align operational priorities and tactics.  ? Assess quality of delivery and time commitments. Recommend strategies for improvement, including continuous improvements and leading best practices programs.  ? Perform resource requirement planning for assigned service lines. May support vendor resources and resource planning.  ? Identify and resolve issues related to the performance of the services and/or deviations from defined scope of work. Formulate and implement corrective actions.  ? Provide guidance or technical supervision to less experienced staff performing similar functions  ? Lead release readiness planning and execution for large-scale technology projects  ? Documenting and managing release implementation project schedules and deployment plans  ? Defining and delivering integrated playbooks and coordinating playbook and runbook development across business and operations and technology Deployment Manager CGI Federal - Fairfax, VA December 2014 to October 2016 Project: Healthcare.gov  ? Responsible for managing implementation activities that bring a software release or patch into implementation and production environments.  ? Manage deployment milestones ensuring those milestones are planned, managed, and come together in a timely manner.  ? Ensure that the integrity of Implementation and Production environments are protected and the correct components are released by owning deployment schedules and implementation plans.  ? Coordinate with developers, testers, business managers, and clients in implementing the requirements and incorporate changes as per client needs.  ? Communicate with business, technology, or test units in coordinating services, deliverables, or meetings. Compile information for business unit or project meetings.  ? Direct and supervise all support resources for the performance of deployment assignments and activities.  ? Serve as an escalation point for all issues and questions associated with a release and provide release status updates to all stakeholders.  ? Cross functional collaboration to assess gaps, define solutions or improvements, and implement the effective use of software development best practices.  ? Create and manage work plans and Change Management deliverables.  ? Create team specific Agile process flow in Jira to move tasks from one activity to another. Company Representative OBO Water and Energy - Dubai, AE July 2011 to October 2014 UAE    ? Serve as the liaison and company representative in the UAE.  ? Establish partner relationships with UAE companies for business development and joint projects performance.  ? Present company capability briefings and provide company profile to attract partners and clients.  ? Research lead generation venues for the company in UAE.  ? Maintain relationships with the partner network. Education Bachelor of Business Administration in Business Administration American University in Dubai - Dubai, AE June 2013 Skills CHANGE MANAGEMENT, DEPLOYMENT, ITIL, NESSUS, NIST, Jira (5 years), Rally (5 years), Agile Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Advanced Security Practitioner (Casp) Certified ScrumMaster (CSM) AWS