Information Security Specialist Information <span class="hl">Security</span> Specialist Information Security Specialist Oakdale, PA Certified information security generalist with interest in developing  network security and system security skills. Experience in service  desk, systems administration, domain administration, and  documentation with local government. Goals of Red Team skills and  mentorship. Alumni of Computing & Information Science (CIS) at  Saint Vincent College, concentration on Computer, IT, and Network  Security. Minored in Creative Writing. Work Experience Information Security Specialist Allegheny County Airport Authority - Pittsburgh, PA August 2017 to August 2019 Responsibilities and tasks included vulnerability assessment and remediation, access control, event and log analysis, firewall Ac Ls, endpoint protection  management, domain policy configurations, phishing campaigns, phishing  email analysis, encryption and data protection, authentication configuration, URL and content filtering, procedure and policy drafting. Worked with  Symantec Endpoint Protection, Symantec Message Labs, Cisco ASDM, PRTG, Microsoft Office 365 Security and Compliance Center, KnowBe4, and  SysAid.  EDMC Cybersecurity Analyst Pittsburgh, PA February 2017 to July 2017 Tier 1 analysis responsibilities and duties included log and event analysis, change management, vulnerability scanning and assessment, firewall  traffic analysis and filtering. Worked with HP ArcSight, Symantec Endpoint  Protection, Palo Alto firewalls, and ServiceNow. Help Desk Technician Pine-Richland School District - Gibsonia, PA January 2017 to February 2017 Computer Information Systems Tutor Saint Vincent College - Latrobe, PA August 2013 to December 2016 Answering questions from students, often non-CIS majors, relating to homework assignments, projects, and difficult material. With the large  presence of non-CIS majors, patience is required when answering questions.  Often requires late nights as well as consultation outside of regular tutoring  hours. A productive and positive atmosphere was to be maintained at all times in all CIS labs.  REA Energy Cooperative, Inc. IT Assistant Indiana, PA July 2016 to August 2016 Anything and everything IT/Help Desk related. Rugged tablets, troubleshooting, R&D, and documentation.  Gittings Private Investigations and Security, Inc. Security Officer Ebensburg, PA June 2015 to August 2015 Delivered legal documents, following standard operating procedures during deliveries and attempts. Appropriate paperwork filed based upon completion, which would merit an affidavit, or non-completion, which required proof of due  diligence. IT Assistant Pandya Business Solutions - Ebensburg, PA May 2014 to August 2014 Worked directly with business owner to meet everyday challenges of small  business operation. Provided customers with IT / Computing Solutions in office and in the field. Gained valuable experience by combining IT knowledge with customer service skills. Education Bachelor of Computing and Information Systems in (BCIS), Computer and Information Systems Security/Information Assurance Saint Vincent College 2012 to 2016 Bishop Carroll High School Diploma University Preparatory and Advanced High School Skills Networking, Security, Computer security, Cyber Security, Siem, Information Security, Network Security Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/evan-schirf?jobid=1234&lipi=urn%3Ali%3Apage%3Ad_jobs_easyapply_pdfgenresume%3BMSSv%2FztlQkiivFPDBcMAVg%3D%3D&licu=urn%3Ali%3Acontrol%3Ad_jobs_easyapply_pdfgenresume-v02_profile Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/oyfkavpbou13fv6z Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Top Skills  Networking  Programming  Computer Security