IT Security Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Security Analyst - Akamai Manassas, VA Work Experience IT Security Analyst Akamai - Reston, VA July 2017 to Present • Develop and review security artifacts such as SSPs, POA&Ms, Security Control Assessments, Configuration Plans (CPM), Contingency Plans (CP) and Incident Response Plans.  • Review implementation statements and supporting evidence of security controls to determine if the systems are currently meeting the requirements.  • Review Nessus vulnerability scan results for mitigation actions and help the system stakeholders to create and maintain POA&Ms for the deficiencies identified in the scan results.  • Work with the Security Control Assessors (SCA) team to assess implemented security controls to determine effectiveness by interviewing, examining and testing.  • Develop Security Assessment Report (SAR) identifying the results of the assessment along with FISMA and NIST SP 800-53 rev 4 controls.  • Responsible for developing Rules of Behavior (RoB), Interconnection Security Agreement (ISA) and Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for system assigned to me.  • Monitor controls post authorization to ensure continuous compliance with the security and regulatory requirements. Cyber Security Analyst EvoSwitch, VA September 2015 to May 2017 • Created, monitored and updated the status of POA&Ms to ensure weaknesses are resolved in accordance to their scheduled completion dates.  • Assisted with Security Categorization of systems (using FIPS 199), Privacy Threshold Assessments (PTA) and Privacy Impact Assessments (PIA) guidelines with stakeholders.  • Ensured that security policies, procedures, and recommendations comply with FISMA, NIST, organizational guidelines.  • Developed and reviewed system security artifacts such as CP, IRP, PTA, PIA, MOU/ISA and SOPs for accuracy and compliance with NIST 800 guidelines and agency security requirements.  • Supported the review of all Cloud Service Provider (CSP) documentation for compliance and work with stakeholders until the cloud system documentation meets FedRAMP requirements.  • Managed findings in POA&Ms that are the result of non-compliant tests of security controls, vulnerability scan reports or continuous monitoring of information systems.  • Hosted meetings and presentations with stakeholders on the operational security posture for the systems in their purview and on security related policies. Information Analyst Ernst & Young - Washington, DC April 2013 to September 2015 • Helped to prepare a comprehensive Authorization To Operate (ATO) packages for submission to the Authorization Official (AO)  • Created and maintained security checklists, templates and other tools to aid in the A&A process.  • Performed security control assessments using NIST 800-53A guidance and as per continuous monitoring requirements.  • Developed System Security Plan (SSP) to provide an overview of system security requirements and described the controls in place by information system owners.  • Conducted follow up meetings to assist ISSOs, System Owners and Authorizing Officials to close remediated POA&M items.  • Participated in meetings to discuss vulnerabilities and potential remediation actions with system owners. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology