Information Assurance Specialist Information Assurance Specialist IT Security Analyst Suitland, MD Information Systems Security Professional with 7+ years of achievement delivering IT Security related to Information Assurance with focus on security controls assessments and monitoring NIST/FISMA standards. Proven ability to drive large-scale initiatives that proactively identify and eliminate security threats, mitigate risks, and protect vital systems and networks.    Motivated and talented with ability to multi-task, work independently and as part of a team with experience in Risk Management Framework (RMF), Certification and Accreditation (C&A) processes, Risk Assessment, Continuous Monitoring Process, vulnerability assessments, POA&Ms Management, and NIST 800 Special Publications series. Work Experience Information Assurance Specialist Bridges November 2017 to Present Conducted Cloud system assessments by utilizing FedRAMP.    Documenting NIST 800-53 security control compliance findings within Requirements Traceability Matrixes    (RTMs) and Security Assessment Reports (SARs).    Reviewing and interpreting Tenable Nessus Vulnerability and Compliance scans, Web Inspect scans, and Db Protect scans.    Experience in developing and disseminating Security Assessment Plans.  Work on multiple assessments simultaneously.    Ability to execute Security Assessments and develop and deliver supporting documentation within aggressive timelines.    Perform full and partial assessments. (yearly and every 3 years)  Conduct Ongoing Authorizations assessment System Administrator/ Junior information Assurance Specialist CyOne, Inc. February 2015 to October 2017 Conduct assessments utilizing NIST 800-53a.    Conduct findings meeting with stakeholder.    Write up SAR and provide detailed explanation about findings.    Maintain/Perform active directory administration; account creation, and account management in a Windows Server environment.    Perform Microsoft Exchange 2010 administration/management and plan, configure and implement Exchange 2013 upgrades.    Maintain anti-virus and email scan suite for Exchange email.    Experience working in a casual team environment and demonstrate ability to trouble-shoot and solve problems encountered across many different technologies.    Analyze and resolve COTS and GOTS software problems including end-user intranet websites and database connection issues. SOC Analyst/Entry Level IT Security Analyst KLYR Solutions Inc May 2012 to February 2015 Developed, reviewed and updated Information Security System Policies, established security baselines in accordance with NIST, FISMA, FIPS, and industry best security practices.    Performed vulnerability scanning with the support of Nessus scanning tool to detect potential risks on a single or multiple asset across the enterprise network.    Updated IT security policies, procedures, standards, and guidelines per the respective  department and federal requirements.    Performed risk assessments, help review and update, Plans of Action and Milestones (POA&M), Security Control Assessments, (SA&A) Security Assessment and Authorization using NIST SP 800-53/FIPS 200 ( Security Controls), NIST SP 800-53A (Assessing Security Controls).    Monitored controls post authorization to ensure constant compliance with the security  requirements. Education Suitland High School August 2007 to May 2011 Skills Nessus, Nist, Risk management, NIST 800-53, NIST 800-53A, NIST 800-30, NIST 800-37, NIST 800-39, FIPS 199, FIPS 200, Plans of Action and Milestones (POA&M), SSP, SAR, Microsoft Office 2003-2016, Windows 98/XP/7/8/10, Windows Server Certifications/Licenses Security+