Endpoint Security Specialist Endpoint <span class="hl">Security</span> Specialist Endpoint Security Specialist - CoralVision Tech Morris Plains, NJ Ability to work in a fast-paced large-scale enterprise environment and collaborate with various teams as well as having extensive knowledge of computer maintenance, customer service, high level support in corporate environment. In addition, I can bring my cyber security experience and familiarity with a wide variety of security applications and networking protocols. Work Experience Endpoint Security Specialist CoralVision Tech January 2017 to Present Using product Knowbe4  ? Creating phishing emails  ? Creating spoofed emails to client  ? Creating campaigns to run daily, biweekly, and monthly  ? Testing Domain attacks  ? Running reports for clients  ? Baseline test results  ? Social engineering with users understanding attacks  ? Created Phish alert button using knowbe4  ? Running test for weak passwords  ? Symantec Endpoint protection Manager  ? SIEM process, logging and monitoring.  ? Installing antivirus agents  ? Creating redistributable packages for cloud antivirus  ? Updating Virus definitions workstations and servers  ? Making sure products updates are updated daily  ? Endpoint manager symantec, eset, and kaspersky  ? Symantec on premise and Cloud  ? Creating packages from symantec cloud  ? Portal installs on server and workstations C3I, Senior Technician Novo Nordisk March 2014 to January 2017 Managing client IOS devices through AirWatch Software including profile removal, passcode resets, and mobile app management  ? Supporting clients Apple Products iPhone 6 and iPhone 6s and iPad air and iPad Pros    ? Knowledge of SCCM 2012 and Active Directory.  ? End User Active Directory Account Support deleting and enabling accounts.  ? Provide Tier 2 and Tier 3 troubleshooting support for Service Desk generated incidents in BMC Remedy system.  ? Imaging, Backup/Restore Data, Ghosting and configured laptops to company specification  ? Support various hardware from T450, X250, T460, X260 and Yoga Lenovo machines  ? SLA: Phone answered within 3 rings, 15-minute response plus 15 minutes fix time  ? TCP/IP and LAN configuration of pc's and printers using ipconfig, Novo Nordisk, net use  ? Activating Ports in wiring closet for Cisco IP Phones and Poly Cons.  ? Deploying Softphones providing support, installation, and training.  ? Cisco Configurations from Cisco IP 7975g, 8811 desk phones and 7925 Poly cons PKI IT Security Analyst Novartis Pharmaceuticals June 2012 to March 2014 Assisted in user configurations for system compatibility when testing digital certificate.  ? Documented and provided support for system software, hardware and various applications.  ? Managed roles in access control list based on corporate policies and standards (ISO 27001 ISO27002).  ? Scheduled appointments with clients for meetings regarding technical inquiries for PKI certificates.  ? Completed notary forms and related forms for client VPN and PKI access.  ? Conducted phone conferences with international and domestic clients.  ? Assisted training clients on system applications and VPN client.  ? Familiarity with RSA Secure Login configuration and Entrust Management console Education Diploma Avtech Institute of Technology - Fairfield, NJ March 2011 to April 2012