HELP DESK ENGINEER HELP DESK ENGINEER Successful Air Force Iraq veteran with 16 years of extensive IT experience. Jack of all trades who doesn't take "that can't be done" as an answer. Expert problem solver who excels at outside-the-box thinking. Empathetic mind-set that allows me to put myself in the customer's shoes. Grand Rapids, MI Computer Skills  Windows Server 2008 R2 & Server 2012, Microsoft SQL, Exchange Server, RedHat Linux, Ubuntu Linux  Internet Information Services (IIS), Apache Web Server, Wireshark, Tripwire, VNC    Technical Skills  Programming: Perl, PHP, SQL  Adept with SQL databases  Proficient with Microsoft Office, IT service ticket systems, and SharePoint  Strong troubleshooting and diagnostic abilities  Project Management    Interpersonal Skills  Excellent analysis and problem-solving skills  Customer-focused innovator  Strong teamwork skills  Motivated & Self-starting independent worker    Training & Leadership  Designed and taught basic computer and password security classes to employees  Lead trainer in Air Force Squadron Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience HELP DESK ENGINEER Advanced Business Solutions - Louisville, KY December 2018 to February 2019 Diagnose and troubleshoot computer issues for 110+ companies as a member of an eight-person team providing remote support  ? Maintained and kept up-to-date a vast inventory of documentation  ? Performed exemplary customer service and received recognition for excellent  customer feedback IT MANAGER Summitt Trucking LLC - Clarksville, IN August 2017 to October 2018 Managed and maintained fifty Windows Server 2008, 2008 R2, and 2012 servers, Windows 7, 8, and 10 desktops and the VMware infrastructure for a trucking company  with 80 users and 150 truck drivers as the solo Systems Administrator under the IT  Director  ? Created Microsoft SQL stored procedures for automated and AD-HOC reporting of administrative and operations data for management and operations personnel  ? Created and maintained the company asset inventory for all computer hardware, printers, video cameras, cell phones and networking equipment using Spiceworks  ? Migrated on-premises Microsoft Exchange to Office 365  ? Developed PTO tracking system for truck drivers to request PTO and to track PTO  balances using Office 365's Microsoft Flow  ? Designed and taught classes to users educating them on password security and beginner computer skills to  aid in their everyday use of the Windows desktops SENIOR SECURITY OPERATIONS ENGINEER Airlines Reporting Corporation (ARC) - Louisville, KY January 2015 to July 2017 ? Maintained and analyzed network security equipment including Palo Alto firewalls, Web Application Firewalls (WAF), Network Access Control (NAC), host-based security,  Data Loss Prevention (DLP), Security Information and Event Management (SIEM), email  security, and file integrity monitoring as part of a three-person team for a travel company with 3 branch offices and 250 users  ? Developed web tools to allow team-members to easily correlate data from multiple  security sources using Perl, Powershell, and PHP which enhanced our ability to monitor and investigate potential security threats  ? Programmed Perl scripts for use by the network administration team to replace 1800  unused objects and rules on the network firewalls which removed manual steps and reduced their project time by 80%  ? Engineered and executed a migration from QRadar SIEM to Graylog which resulted in a cost savings of over $60,000 a year  ? Performed a decision maker role in testing and purchasing an endpoint security  product SYSTEMS SECURITY ANALYST Florida Blue - Jacksonville, FL March 2013 to January 2015 Administered and audited security policies based on DoD standards for Windows XP,  7 & 8 desktops and Windows Server 2003, 2008 & 2008 R2 in accordance with company security policies for a major health insurance company with 500 users as part  of a three-person team  ? Created intranet website for vulnerability management reporting, utilizing Perl & PHP, which allowed team admins greater access to vulnerability and resolution information  ? Spearheaded a process to create scripts for evaluating Internet Information Services  (IIS) security settings for auditors which scanned the 80 IIS servers for 150 settings  eliminating user interaction and reducing audit time by 60%  ? Conducted monthly vulnerability scans to assess the security of the network and communicate remediation recommendations to the appropriate teams Education None Grand Valley State University - Grand Rapids, MI Present Certificate Community College of the Air Force Skills EXCHANGE, IIS, INTERNET INFORMATION SERVICES, PERL, PHP, SHAREPOINT, WEB SERVER, SQL, TRIPWIRE, WIRESHARK, APACHE, LINUX, WINDOWS SERVER 2008, WINDOWS SERVER 2008 R2, MICROSOFT OFFICE, PROBLEM-SOLVING, TRAINING, Active Directory, Desktop Support, Help Desk, Service Desk, Tech Support, Comptia Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/russell-coon-95704a174/ Military Service Branch: U.S. Air Force Service Country: United States Rank: E-4 June 2003 to March 2007 Commendations: Squadron Technician of the Year Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Systems Administrator (MCSA) CompTIA A+ Security+ Groups Veterans of Foreign Wars Lifetime Member Present