SECURITY ASSISTANT <span class="hl">SECURITY</span> ASSISTANT SECURITY ASSISTANT - DEPARTMENT OF VETERAN AFFAIRS Rochester, NY Work Experience SECURITY ASSISTANT DEPARTMENT OF VETERAN AFFAIRS 2017 to Present Manages and coordinates facility's communication traffic for law enforcement and emergency management operations and performs administrative functions for physical security devices and their respective networks.  • Effectively prioritized emergency calls and alarms to improve the response times of first responders to facility incidents and maintaining databases of incidents and responses for quality control review.  • Coordinated 12 emergency operations in the location and recovery of missing and high-risk veterans through emergency management principles, joint-law enforcement databases and resources, resulting in the department maintaining a 100% effective rate in safely locating and quickly rendering emergency care to missing or high-risk veterans.  • Received VAMC quarterly award for meritorious service and dedicated commitment to serving the needs of veterans and upholding the core values of the VA, while bringing positive recognition to the VA Police Department. IT SUPPORT ANALYST COAST PROFESSIONALS, INC 2014 to 2015 Provided front-line technical support to end-users on various technical issues and problems related to hardware, software, and peripherals. Manages tracking of trouble tickets within IT Helpdesk Center to ensure key performances and metrics are maintained.  • Successfully managed 40 - 60 trouble ticket inquires daily, ranking in the top 3% of IT support associates.  • Introduced and created a series of IT system operation manuals, network topologies, new polices, and employee training materials which streamlined the onboarding process of new helpdesk employees to a two-week integration period.  • Developed a knowledge base database within the department, increasing the efficiency and completion rate of trouble tickets by more than 50%. CRYPTOLOGIC TECHNICIAN COLLECTOR, SECOND CLASS UNITED STATES NAVY 2006 to 2010 Served as department's Senior Signals Intelligence Analyst and Regional Subject Matter Expert in support of strategic and tactical electronic and cyber warfare operations. Conducting target development and exploitation of computer networks, mobile and satellite communication applications.  • Produced over 150 SIGINT reports in support of theater and national level consumers, which resulted in positive feedback from Central Command for exceptional reporting and briefing skills.  • Performed over 1,000 hours of communication interception support leading to new exploitation capabilities for 40 strategic and tactical information warfare missions, resulting in the safety and security of 10,000 U.S. deployed personnel and equipment valued over $40 million.  • My efforts and dedication as a Signals Development Analyst earned attention at the Presidential level and resulted in the department receiving positive feedback from the State Department and Central Intelligence Agency.  • Trained and supervised over 24 joint-operational personnel in ISR (intelligence, surveillance, & reconnaissance) mission requirements, standards, and processing request for information inquires. Education B.S. in HOMELAND SECURITY MEDAILLE COLLEGE - Buffalo, NY 2018 Skills TIME MANAGEMENT, PROBLEM SOLVING, SYSTEMS ANALYSIS, QUALITY CONTROL, TEAM PLAYER Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES    Critical thinking, Complex problem solving, Active learning, Active listening, Judgement & Decision making, Systems Analysis, Systems evaluation, Operational analysis, Monitoring, Troubleshooting, Management of personnel resources, Instructing, Learning Strategies, Quality Control Analysis, Briefing & reporting of data and complex thoughts, Technical writing, Time management, and Team player.