Cyber Security Consultant Cyber <span class="hl">Security</span> Consultant Cyber Security Consultant - TechGuard Security Highland, IL Cyber Security Consultant with broad experience in Fortune 100 Information Security. My passion is security and I put my expertise to work for my clients. I strive to improve Cyber Security Programs through consultation on Incident Response Planning/Tabletops, Cyber Security Awareness Programs, Compliance Controls Auditing (HIPPA, FFEIC, NIST, CIS), and various forms of testing including Penetration Testing (Network, Application, Device, Mobile App), Vulnerability Assessments, Social Engineering exercises, and Physical Security engagements.     I have worked with many best in class cyber security technologies throughout design, build, and continued operations including Splunk, Nessus, Nexpose, CarbonBlack, LogRhythm CheckPoint, TrendMicro, Proofpoint, BlueCoat, ForcePoint, Absolute, Tanium, SourceFire, as well as others. I bring a depth of experience from my front line Incident Response, Architecture and Consulting background. I have always been fortunate to work with great teams and consider myself a great team player with a positive personality.     CISSP, CEH, GSEC, GMOB, Security+, ITIL, Splunk, and Rapid7 Certified. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Cyber Security Consultant TechGuard Security - Scott AFB, IL August 2018 to Present Working with clients to develop realistic Cyber Security solutions to improve their security programs  ? Conducting penetration testing of external and internal networks, web apps, and mobile apps  ? Completing vulnerability assessments with a focus on risk-based assessment and remediation plans  ? Providing social engineering assessments phishing, vishing, and physical  ? Developing Incident Response plans and simulated exercises to ensure plan efficacy Information Security Architect Centene Corporation - Clayton, MO March 2018 to August 2018 Lead design on Tenable hybrid cloud and on-premise vulnerability scanning solution  ? Implemented AWS audit and detective controls integrating with Splunk Enterprise Security  ? Integrated security best practices into information system designs for all areas of the business  ? Lead design to migrate legacy QRadar platform from an acquired company onto Splunk  ? Created weekly Hacking Challenges for Security Engineering and Architecture teams Project Lead System Engineer - IT Security Centene Corporation - Clayton, MO May 2015 to March 2018 Built distributed multi-site 3TB+ Splunk deployment with Enterprise Security Search Head Cluster  ? Migrated from a Websense to a Blue Coat Proxy solution with CAS and MAA sandboxing  ? Deployed cloud-based Next Gen Anti-Virus to replace a traditional AV solution  ? Developed SIEM solution using LogRhythm Advanced Intelligence Engine  ? Tuned and developed Forcepoint DLP policies to greatly increase efficacy of the solution    Professional Experience - Continued Systems Analyst Basler Electric Company - Highland, IL January 2014 to May 2015 Developed custom applications to integrate with Oracle EnterpriseOne ERP system  ? Interacted with each department to define software requirements that meet business needs  ? Designed and implemented custom ERP database tables to support application development  ? Created new trading partner relationships and maintain mappings for EDI interchanges  ? Provided ERP system support to users across all functional areas of the business Systems Engineer - IT Security Centene Corporation - Clayton, MO May 2013 to January 2014 Conducted vulnerability assessments with Nessus as well as Nexpose to create remediation plans  ? Monitored SourceFire IPS events and host logs for correlated activity and indicators of compromise  ? Created LogRhythm Advanced Intelligence Engine rules to detect compromised systems and users  ? Supported Checkpoint NG-Firewall technology from build to firewall rule implementation  ? Performed security incident response and threat hunting for the enterprise Intern - IT Security and Business Continuity Planning Centene Corporation - Clayton, MO March 2012 to May 2013 Developed business continuity plans using LDRPS across the organization's 96 nationwide locations  ? Produced disaster recovery as well as work-area recovery documentation  ? Developed BASH scripts to parse through log data looking for anomalous activity  ? Created the Security Configuration Guide for Windows 7 based on the CIS Benchmark Computer Science Lab Worker / Help Desk Technician McKendree University - Lebanon, IL March 2011 to May 2013 Directed efforts to redesign the computer lab's infrastructure using VMware VSphere  ? Provided help desk support for students and faculty  ? Developed McKendree VMLab - an automated means of deploying VMs for Students' Use  ? Maintained the computing division's lab providing patch management and end user support Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems McKendree University - Lebanon, IL May 2013 Skills Security, Data loss prevention, Ids, Ips, Siem, Vpn, Incident response, Virtualization, Firewall, Auditing, Architecture, Loss prevention Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/zacheryturpen Additional Information Technical Skills  ? SIEM Architecture and Administration  ? Penetration Testing (App/Network)  ? Security Controls Auditing  ? Firewall and VPN Management  ? IPS/IDS Administration  ? Web Proxy  ? Sandboxing  ? Cloud Security    ? Vulnerability Management  ? Mobile Platform and App Testing  ? Social Engineering (Phishing, Vishing, In-Person)  ? Incident Response  ? Threat Hunting  ? Data Loss Prevention  ? Next-Gen Antivirus  ? Virtualization