Senior Cyber Security Analyst, Infrastructure Services Senior Cyber <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span>, Infrastructure Services Senior Cyber Security Analyst, Infrastructure Services - Quad/Graphics New Berlin, WI Work Experience Senior Cyber Security Analyst, Infrastructure Services Quad/Graphics - Sussex, WI December 2018 to Present • Develop automation for a Vulnerability Management System to scan, identify, and report on vulnerabilities found within the corporate network.  • Utilize IBM QRadar to create automated tasks to dynamically react to potential  security risks.  • Design and implement replacement security infrastructure as part of multiple  M&A activities. IT Senior Security Analyst, Security Operations Quad/Graphics - Sussex, WI December 2016 to November 2018 Sulik • Leverage APIs to create dashboards allowing other teams to perform activities on their own without requiring direct Security Operations staff involvement.  • Work with the business to help develop and implement solutions to securely  12701 W Wyndridge Ct Apt 106  New Berlin, WI 53151 manage legacy production equipment.  414-335-7691 • Automate firewall ACL changes based on log data to proactively react to kylesulik@gmail.com external intrusion events.  • Oversee policy changes and development to Network Access Control software  to prevent unauthorized devices on the network. IT Systems Analyst, Security Operations Quad/Graphics - Sussex, WI April 2012 to November 2016 Accomplished IT professional • Consolidated multiple VPN platforms into a single centrally managed solution  with over 10 years of for all employee and vendor remote access.  experience in the industry with • Managed remediation efforts to ensure legacy unsupported devices were  demonstrated successes migrated from the corporate network without impacting production workflows.  designing and implementing • Supported corporate devices controlling network ingress and egress (Bluecoat  complex solutions in an ever- proxies, Checkpoint firewalls, and Cisco ASAs). IT Systems Administrator, Windows Network Services Quad/Graphics - Sussex, WI November 2010 to March 2012 Sussex, WI  working with security, authorization, remote access IT Systems Administrator, Windows Network Services // Nov 2010 - March 2012  and vulnerability scanning • Authored multiple divestiture and acquisition projects to smoothly migrate users  hardware and software. and resources from one Active Directory Domain to another.  • Converted legacy ERP systems to Active Directory authentication in lieu of unmanaged local Linux credentials.  • Managed deployment of Active Directory services (AD, DNS and DHCP) at over 30 new locations due to acquisitions.  • Provided 24/7 on call support on a scheduled support rotation. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science and Graphic Communication in Design Carroll University - Waukesha, WI 2007 Skills Information Security, Network Security, Siem, Cyber Security, Splunk