Job Seeker Work Experience Novell User Security - Everett, MA April 2018 to May 2018 Active Directory•Citrix, Virtual Software PC Anywhere, Netfinity, Heat, Remote Access (Proficient)•AS/400 (proficient), Unix • Microsoft Office 365, Excel Access, PowerPoint  •Lotus Notes and Outlook, Exchange  •CompTIA A+ Hardware Certified Heat, Remedy, Q-Support Call tracking software  Amazon Everett, MA April 2018 - May 2018 Overnight stocking for fulfillment center for seasonal work. The Pine Street Inn - Boston, MA August 2013 to May 2015 The Salvation Army - Malden, MA November 2011 to December 2011 Seasonal bell ringer for holiday. Integral Resources - Cambridge, MA April 2011 to July 2011 Call center for political campaign. Desktop Support Engineer National Engineering - Woburn, MA October 2005 to June 2006 Held position as a desktop support engineer for a major Financial Company. Main focus on software support of Office applications, Lotus Notes, Citrix, Adobe, printer related issues, installation of financial industry software, proprietary software and support of Blackberry PDA devices. Responsible for maintaining and backing up pc's with Windows 2000 and XP. Also, rolled out new Dell compact case pc's. Responsible for troubleshooting performance issues and installing or replacing appropriate components ie: memory, video cards, fans, and monitors. Installed Bloomberg software and keyboards. Installed Windows 2000 and XP on IBM S50, M41's, Dell and IBM T41, T42, T43 laptops. Used Active directory to create computer id's and determine security groups. Remotely connected to users with Remote desktop. Supported wireless laptop capabilities. Setup projector and video presentations. IT Support Technology Specialist Held positions Precision Response Corporations - Miami, FL February 2004 to February 2005 as a technical support analyst receiving inbound calls and providing support to over 400 users. Documented calls in Remedy call tracking software. Provided education to novice users, geared towards enabling users self-assistance for future technical issues thereby decreasing repeat calls. Installed software on client machines. Walk users thru troubleshooting network connectivity involving pc and printer issues. Document procedures and used query tool to produce reports used for daily updates to open calls using. IT Technical Support Support RTM - Deerfield Beach, FL August 2003 to February 2004 over 400 quick food restaurants with hardware/software technical issues. Remotely support stores Window 2000 back office systems using PC anywhere, DOSS, UNIX, and OS2. Also, provide support for point-of-sale (POS) systems, satellite communications and LAN issues. Documented calls using Heat. Position entails assessing, troubleshooting and leading clients through technical diagnostic procedures over the telephone. IT Technical Support Analyst / Security The Sports Authority - Lauderdale Lakes, FL February 2000 to February 2003 coordinator Held position as a technical support analyst receiving inbound calls and providing support to over 200 retail locations and more than 300 corporate users. Documented calls using Q-support. Provided education to novice users geared towards enabling users self-assistance for future technical issues thereby decreasing repeat calls. Installed software on client machines. Walked users thru troubleshooting network connectivity involving pc and printer issues. Documented new procedure and updated existing procedures. Additionally assisted remote store users in regaining networking connectivity by providing step-by-step instructions to reconfigure dumb terminals and troubleshooting LAN and WAN hubs in the stores. After 2 years was promoted to Security coordinator. Created and maintained user profiles and security for computer systems including Lotus Notes R5, AS/400, Kronos, Windows NT, and Novell. Worked in a support role to the Unix, AS/400 and Lotus Notes administrator. IT Support Analyst Provided technical support Mars Music - Fort Lauderdale, FL August 1999 to February 2000 for corporate personnel using MS office products that included Exchange. Documented calls using Quetzal. Additionally supported store personnel using Windows 3.51 with a Citrix interface and using Hypercom frame relay WAN. Supported the stores with LAN Genasys Point of Sales software. Proactive working with users and extracting information to better determine a solution. Configuring dumb terminals with IP addresses for WAN. Dispatching service technical's for on-site resolution. Education A.S. in software development Education Broward Community College Clark University