Application/Mainframe Provisioning Analyst Application/Mainframe Provisioning <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Application/Mainframe Provisioning Analyst - CVS Houston, TX Extensive Technical/ Security Analyst skills along with an Active Directory background in the Financial Banking/Healthcare/Pharmaceutical/Energy industry. With 13 Years of Active Directory Administration technology experience along with strong working knowledge of security issues, risks and solutions for the Active Directory platform. Confident with my ability to effectively foster great working relationships with the Technical/Business teams to resolve daily issues. Able to clearly communicate to an audience with various levels of Active Directory/ Security knowledge in a high-volume production environment using a trouble ticketing work flow system. Work Experience Application/Mainframe Provisioning Analyst CVS October 2018 to Present • Reviewing user provisioning requests for completeness, accuracy, audit compliance, clarity of intent, and proper approvals.  • Granting access to an operating system, application, or data store based on the provisioning request while using a variety of utilities, tools, and applications.  • Coordinating activities with other provisioning agents and with user provisioning management.  • Experience using enterprise ticketing systems such as HP Service Manager, Service Now, Serena TeamTrack, etc.  • Exposure and general understanding of Facets.  • Understanding of CPT, HCPCs, and ICD-CM Codes.  • Knowledge of Medicaid/Medicare as well as understanding of the healthcare field.  • Experience working within access management preferably with ABAC (Attribute based access controls), and. Role-Based Access Controls (RBAC). Supporting project's implementing this type of framework into an environment.  Environment: ServiceNow, Facets, Microsoft Outlook, Putty, Filenet, Fazal, TriZetto, IBM mainframe, RxEnroll, EMA, and IAM 11g R2. Security Analyst Wells Fargo February 2019 to June 2019 Risk Assessment BA  • Develops and implements security standards, procedures, and guidelines for multiple platforms and diverse systems environments.  • Reviews the development, testing, and implementation of security plans, products, and control techniques.  • Investigates and recommends appropriate corrective actions for data security incidents.  • Maintains an awareness of bank security policies and government regulations pertaining to information security.  • Work with internal IT support teams in developing incident response procedures.  • Work with internal IT support teams for improving overall logical access controls and Principle of Least Privilege (PoLP).  • Knowledge and experience with Access Management provisioning, deprovisioning and certification systems and processes.  • Understanding and experience of Identity and Access Management (IAM).    Environment: Sharepoint, Gap Analysis Templates, Microsoft Outlook 2016, Remedy, and IAM. UAM Consultant -User Access Management Aon Insurance July 2018 to February 2019 • Perform user account provisioning (the enterprise-wide configuration, deployment and management of multiple types of IT system resources, which are applied to monitor user and customer access rights and privacy while ensuring enterprise resource security) and de-provisioning (from and freeing up resources reserved by end users and their file transfer workflows.  • Rapid removal of access upon termination or end of contract and enterprise applications, authentication sources, and data stores; ensuring access is appropriately approved by stakeholders; entitlements are accurately granted, modified, or revoked; and actions are auditable for regulatory compliance.  • Identify and correct potential permission violations across managed application and data stores.  • Follows all Insurance policies and procedures, compliance regulations, and completes all required annual or job-specific training.  • Responsible for ensuring compliance with security policy across platforms such as Windows, Novell, Mainframe and Unix.  Environment: ServiceNow, SafeNet, Microsoft Outlook, Active Directory, One Identity, Workday, RSA, and SAS Admin Tool. Identity Management Lead Analyst Amerihealth Caritas January 2018 to March 2018 • Assist in the development and implementation of an overall global IAM strategy that will provide proper user protection while ensuring an easy validation and authorization experience.  • Work closely with internal/external partners, auditors, and stakeholders to manage internal audit requests, review findings and develop remediation plans.  • A strong understanding of new hire, employee transfer, and separation processes (i.e. Workday, IAM, and IT Security policies) are also required.  • Responsible for IAM service request resolution and SLA management. Work with the Business Owners/vendors to create user accounts and respond to user requests to reset passwords. Coordination, review and implementation of other requests such as: Email release requests, Web access requests, Remote access & USB requests, and other access requests as needed. On boarding of new applications for IAM management.  Environment: Remedy, Sybase, Microsoft Outlook, Active Directory, MDM (MaaS360), and Oracle Identity Management 11g R2. Wells Fargo June 2017 to December 2017 Business Analysis Functionality  • Participate in the evaluation, development, of emerging data access control technologies, information systems security issues, safeguards and techniques.  • Assist customers in identifying security risks to their applications and implementing appropriate data security procedures and products.  • Work on project to improve IT controls for users requesting privileged access to one or more desktops.  • Assist in the creation and implementation of an enterprise-level roles based access control (RBAC) provisioning model.  • Interfacing with the business & development team to write business requirements.  • Resolves entitlement related questions, assess user needs, and recommend changes. Prepares dashboards and periodic reporting for management.  • Resolves entitlement related questions, assess user needs, and recommend changes. Prepares dashboards and periodic reporting for management. supporting a role based access (RBAC) and entitlements in a business analysis capacity, working on a implementation project tools such as SailPoint or IAM.  Environment: Sharepoint, Remedy, Microsoft Outlook 2016, PAC, and IAM.    Humana KY  Mainframe Security Analyst  • Responsible for setting up user accounts, granting access, and controlling user's in Identity Management as well as Main Frame Security.  • Most of this provisioning will be done in DB2 and TSO (Time Sharing Option) and CLIST utility.  • Processing and modifying ACF2 datasets or RACF from Service Now requests.  • Provisioning Access, Database Access, Oracle, Entitlements, SQL, Sybase, Teradata, Informix, MongoDB, DB2.  • Ticketing System experience (ART, Remedy, and Pac2000).  • In communication with Manager of IAM, OIT Project Manager, IAM team and other stakeholders making sure access, provisioning documentation, attribute mapping, and auditing updates are communicated.  • Training at SailPoint University for IdentityIQ.  Environment: Service Now, IBM Mainframe, Microsoft Outlook, Aries, TSO, VLookUp, DB2, Sybase, Teradata, Informix, MongoDB, Microsoft Office Excel, SailPoint and P-Synch. IAM Engineer Support BB&T August 2015 to July 2016 • Possess exposure to Mainframe computing environments with emphasis on Active Directory (AD), Role Based Access Control (RBAC), and Resource Access Control Facility (RACF).  • Responds to requests within defined SLA's for granting access to multiple applications, changing access rights or restricting access.  • Decommission all account for termed employees and contractors.  • Operate within the established Information Security Policies for all security requests.  • Responsible for the timely, accurate, and secure processing of new application on-boarding to ensure appropriate user Adds, Changes, and Deletions are performed accurately and efficiently. Ensures that application settings and user profiles are configured to meet Bank policy and standards.  • Administer and build new security roles, classes and / or rules for IAM tool and / or appropriate system(s) or application(s) based on customer needs and compliance approval; maintain documentation accordingly.  • Resolve user access issues through RSA password reset, and unlocking or enabling accounts.  Environment: Bluezone Mainframe V5.,Windows7 Enterprise V6.1,Active Directory Users and Computers Microsoft Corp. v6.1,Microsoft Office Professional Plus 2010 V14,RSA Security Console V8.1, Oracle Identity Management 11g R2, System Access Management (SAM),Oracle Identity Analytics V11, SQL Server Management Studio, SQL Server 2008 R2, and ServiceNow. Information Security Analyst Wells Fargo January 2014 to July 2015 • Creation of Client (Distributed File System) including administration of home directories, roaming profile objects, shared data directories, Client links and NTFS file security.  • Creation of DFS Links for Investment Banking Institutes.  • Provides security project management support as it relates to access requests and provisioning services  • Track and complete security-related issues via trouble ticket system.  • Perform user security administration and provisioning for both Active Directory and Application level accounts, previsioning, adds, changes, terms and deletions.  • Documentation of changes, events, new processes, this includes project security requirements.  Environment: CNET, Active Directory, WholeSale Ticketing system, Outlook 2007, Remote Desktop, Lac Tools. Security Access Analyst SunTrust May 2013 to July 2013 • Exchange account administration, new mailboxes, distribution lists, contacts, accounts changes as needed for users  • UNIX account setup  • Knowledgebase Documentation and Incident ticket resolution  • Facilitate the identification and resolution of SailPoint security issues or questions by involving identified associates and other stakeholders; escalate when appropriate.  • Exposure to Windows and Mainframe computing environments with a strong emphasis on Active Directory (AD) and Resource Access Control Facility (RACF). IT Security Administrator Duke Energy December 2012 to May 2013 • User account setup for programs, systems, and applications and Active Directory account management.  • Experienced with a ticketing system Get-ITT and Picasso  • Created SIP accounts for Microsoft Office Communicator on MS Exchange Server 2007  • Modified and updated user accounts in Enterprise People Tools 8.48 system  • Performed end of the month Purgatory Purge clean up  • Updated user accounts in Hummingbird V:12  • Provided direct support to the business and IT staff as it relates to access control function of issuing user identification and assigning appropriate rights to that user identifier  • Utilize PICCASO ticketing system  • Basic training on NERC CIP.  • Experienced with Microsoft Windows Active Directory file system concepts and features -NTFS, Shares, SharePoint.  Environment: GetITT, Remedy, Good Mobile, BES, Blackberry Admin Service, Active Directory 5, PeopleSoft Enterprise 8, Hummingbird Host Explorer V12, User Administration Tool V2, Avaya CSR Front End 5.2., Mainframe, Active Directory, and RACF. Security Administrator Analyst I BNY Mellon November 2010 to February 2011 • Performed Security Maintenance for specific systems/applications  • Created user accounts on Windows and UNIX platforms  • Software asset tracking  • Performed reconcilement task related to user access accounts  • Processed evaluations and documentations  Environment: Citrix, Lotus Notes 8, MS Windows XP, RSA, VPN, and MS Office 2007, Inform, Dashboard, PRAEEO, and UNIX environments. System Monitoring Event Administrator Sanofi-Aventis Pharmaceuticals February 2007 to December 2008 • Monitored events for business-critical production systems  • Provided ticket coordination between Incident Management and NetIQ System.  • Followed established system workflows and processes to view and coordinate ticket escalations.  • Reviewed data in Jigsaw - This user interface allows application owners rapid retrieval of all their application related information.  • Company training and Certification for CSM Change Management    Tape Backup Operator for SAN and NAS operations  • Monitored network, server, Internet/intranet services and applications to ensure availability and performance in accordance with Service Level Agreements (SLA)  • Communicated with Sanofi-Aventis Service Desk and Support Groups about issues that may impact customers  • Followed/Updated Operations Center Disaster and Recovery Escalation procedures    Asset Management Analyst/ Support Analyst  • Coordinated the update of technical documentation and ensures risk and impact of any proposed changes are pre-assessed and necessary controls are introduced  • Scheduled upgrades, testing and software/hardware rollouts in addition with training, customer support and monitoring  • Tracked and purchased Hardware and Software through Ariba as well as office equipment  • Asset Management - documents service orders and performs follow up of completed orders for management information reporting and customer satisfaction  • Coordinated user requests with external vendors according to policies and procedures and maintains an accurate user database  • Basic knowledge of AS/400 systems  Monitoring System Tools: HP OpenView (Operations) A.08.24, Jigsaw, HP Service Desk, Outlook 2003, ManageNow Version 4.4, Networker Administrator 7.1, Validation Request & ISR's Forms  Environment: Windows 2000/2003/XP, MS Visio 2003, Net IQ, Ariba Buyer version 8.2.2 Education SailPoint University - Louisville, KY February 2017 MOUS-Master in Software Technology Program Middlesex County College - Edison, NJ December 2007 Diploma in Computer Technical Support The Chubb Institute - North Brunswick, NJ 1999 to 2000 Business Analyst Business Solutions Program International Institute Skills ARIBA, SECURITY, ACTIVE DIRECTORY, NET IQ, OPENVIEW, PEREGRINE, REMEDY, CITRIX, JUNIPER, NETWARE, VPN, RSA, HP OPENVIEW, SYBASE, UNIX, WORKDAY, TriZetto (1 year), RBAC/ABAC (5 years), IAM/OIM (5 years), SAS Admin (1 year), Application Support, Production Support, System Analyst Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ December 2013 to Present Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) April 2015 to Present Additional Information Technical Skills  Environments:  Citrix, Lotus Notes 8, MS Windows XP, Vista and MS Office 2007, Inform, Dashboard, PRAEEO, and UNIX environments, Service Center, Dameware, Novell Console One, MyPasswords, AccessCentral, Think Vantage 5.3, Nexus, Active Roles V.6, Security Management Admin (Entrust) R.7, Juniper Networks, RSA Security Console, Net IQ, Ariba Buyer version 8.2, UnicenterServicePlus Desk, VNC, WhatsUp Gold, VPN v.6, Afaria, OneComm, and User Manager 5.1, E-Rooms, EDocs, Basic user end support of SAP and AS/400 systems    Medical:  Medical Terminology - ICD-9 and CPT-4 Coding (including hospital coding), Medical Billing/Insurance, HIPAA compliance, MediSoft, Facets.    Ticketing Systems: Remedy, HEAT, Track- it, Peregrine, Magic, IQ Track and HP Openview, ServiceNow, TriZetto.  Other:  MS Office 2003, 2007, 2010; Novell NetWare 4.11, Norton Utilities v.8, McAfee Security Center, Lotus Notes, Track- IT, TSO (PDF), Remedy, MS Visio 2003, Ghost, Remedy, SAP, Active Directory, Pharmaceutical, HP Service Desk, Incident Management, E-Mails, RSA, Good Mobile, CSM Change Management, Blackberry Enterprise Server, iPhone, iPad, and Android Phones, Workday, IAM/OIM, RBAC/ABAC, Filenet, Sybase.