Cybersecurity Analyst Cybersecurity <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Cybersecurity Analyst - Global Services & Consulting, Inc Baltimore, MD Security Analyst with over 8 years of experience delivering mission-critical IT security solutions. Proficient with Risk Management Framework methodologies, privacy/compliance, and continuous monitoring security strategies. Strong technical background in Unix/Linux Operating Systems. Excellent comment (verbal/writing) and customer service skills. Work Experience Cybersecurity Analyst Global Services & Consulting, Inc - Baltimore, MD Present Coordinate with the infrastructure teams to plan, develop, implement and test security controls that meet Federal regulations.  • Develop and maintain security documentation such as the System Security Plan, Privacy Impact Assessment, Configuration Management Plan, Contingency Plan, Contingency Plan Test Report, POA&M, and incident reports.  • Assess vulnerabilities and ensure systems are patched and security hardened at all levels. Monitor to ensure vulnerabilities are remediated as appropriate.  • Analyze and define security requirements for information protection.  • Monitor security breaches and participate in incident response activities and investigation of security breaches.  • Process and submit Plans of Action and Milestone (POA&Ms). Support IT Incident Response (IR) actions and reporting.  • Work with the infrastructure Incident Response team to move servers from Red to Blue Zone and back to production.  • Work with infrastructure and InfoSec teams to apply critical patches to assigned systems.  • Coordinate with infrastructure and networking team to resolve DNS issues, change IPs from dynamic to static IPs where required on assigned systems.  • Deployed Endpoint threat protection agents like FireEye, Symantec and Heat to various systems. Cybersecurity Analyst (RMF) CareFirst BlueCross Bs, Inc - Owings Mills, MD October 2016 to March 2019 • Document and Review security plans, contingency plans, privacy impact assessments, and risk assessment documents per NIST 800 guidelines for various agencies  • Perform Security Privacy Threshold Analysis (PTA), Privacy Impact Assessment, E-Authentication with business owners and selected stakeholders.  • Experience mitigating controls with NIST 800, FIPS and FISMA. Responsible for actively monitoring internal and external cybersecurity threats and risks.  • Implements data security measures and controls to protect our client's information systems. Review and responds to security alerts, scans, and audits  • Coordinates security incident responses with ISSO and security teams, report on information systems security status, standards, compliance, and deficiencies  • Responsible for planning and continuous monitoring of Cybersecurity and privacy policies, programs, compliance artifacts, and standards.  • Assist in establishing a continuous monitoring strategy to proactively survey, monitor, and track security-related defects and the status of their resolutions. IT Security Analyst Executive Consulting Inc - North Bethesda, MD November 2014 to September 2016 • Coordinate with the infrastructure teams to plan, develop, implement and test security controls that meet Federal regulations.  • Develop and maintain security documentation such as the System Security Plan, Privacy Impact Assessment, Configuration Management Plan, Contingency Plan, Contingency Plan Test Report, POA&M, annual FISMA assessment, and incident reports.  • Assess vulnerabilities and ensure systems are patched and security hardened at all levels. monitor to ensure vulnerabilities are remediated as appropriate.  • Analyze and define security requirements for information protection.  • Monitor security breaches and participate in incident response activities and investigation of security breaches.  • Process and submit Plans of Action and Milestone (POA&Ms). Support IT Incident Response (IR) actions and reporting. Systems Administrator (Unix/Linux) Beyond Technologies - Sterling, VA August 2011 to October 2014 • Building and integrating new servers (physical and virtual) using both interactive and automated methods (kickstart).  • Create, manage, and administer user accounts security on UNIX/Linux servers. Manage and troubleshoot user account issues.  • Harden Linux servers based on CIS benchmark recommendations; Nessus scan  • Performed software installations, upgrades/ security patches, troubleshooting, and maintenance on Linux servers  • Configure swap space to OS as needed. Manage file systems, storage, NFS, file permission (data security) using ACL permissions. Education Bachelor's in Arts UNIVERSITY OF YOAUNDE - Yaounde Cameroon September 2005 to December 2009 Master of Science in Cybersecurity Management & Policy UNIVERSITY of MARYLAND UNIVERSITY COLLEGE - Adelphi, MD Skills Security, Fisma, Incident response, Nessus, Nist, Nmap, Linux, Unix, Unix/linux, Sdlc, Security plan, System security, Risk management, Windows server 2008, Excel Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE  • Risk Management Framework  • NIST SP 800 Special Publication Series  • FIPS 199/200 Management FISMA  • Tenable Nessus Vulnerability Scans  • Nmap    • System Security Plan  • Incident Response and Contingency Plan  • Release Management (SDLC)  • Systems Administrator (UNIX/Linux)    Operating Systems: UNIX/Linux OS RHEL:6/7 Windows Server 2008/2012R2