IT Security Engineer <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> Engineer IT Security Engineer - Cleveland Metropolitan School District Cleveland, OH Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Security Engineer Cleveland Metropolitan School District - Cleveland, OH December 2016 to Present Safeguard organization's computer networks and systems.  ? Plan and carry out security measures to monitor and protect sensitive data.  ? Secure network systems from infiltration and cyber-attacks.  Implement network security protections.  ? Install and use software to protect organizations' sensitive information.  ? Assist users with the installation or processing of new security products and procedures.  Monitor network systems for security breaches.  ? Consistently monitors networks and systems for security breaches or intrusions  Investigate security breaches.  ? Leads incident response efforts to minimize impact.  ? Lead a technical and forensic investigation on how the breach happened and the extent of the damage.  ? Prepare reports of my findings to be reported to upper management.  Develop information security plans and policies.  ? Create a set of security standards and best practices for the organization and recommend security enhancements.  ? Responsible for educating staff on information security through training and building awareness. Network Analyst Cleveland Clinic - Cleveland, OH March 2016 to December 2016 Provide technical and process support to resolve technical problems and manage projects.  ? Resolve network problems involving power, noise, network hardware and software problems.  ? Coordinate new equipment or process rollouts for assigned areas.  ? Create detailed reports, analysis and recommendations to management on key technical issues.  Validate wireless coverage and signal strength and provides site surveys.  ? Configure and administer Cisco Access Points and network devices.  ? Proficient use of protocol analyzers and network sniffers to diagnose and troubleshoot operational issues  ? Travel to remote locations as needed.  Review project plans to determine time frame, funding limitations, procedures for accomplishing projects, staffing requirements, and allotment of available departmental resources to various project phases.  ? Formulate and define the technical scope and objectives of projects  ? Reviews the project schedule and plan with business partners and staff participating in the implementation of the project.  ? Ensures company compliance and complete all required compliance training. Network Administrator United States Marine Corps - Cherry Point, NC January 2012 to January 2016 Build and maintain network infrastructures providing web, email, and telephony services to clients in a secure environment.  ? Perform troubleshooting end-to-end between multiple sites  ? Upgrade Cisco routers and switches using TFTP  ? Extensive knowledge of multiple routing protocols RIP, EIGRP, OSPF, BGP  ? Build Microsoft Exchange servers to manage email services  Plan and construct network architectures to implement and deploy in live or static settings.  ? Perform site surveys and plan network topologies  ? Ran cat5 and fiber optic cables between sites  Evaluate and resolve daily client information systems problems which including the repairing of network equipment to maintain mission capability.  ? Maintain 24hr logs of all network activity  ? Performed Maintenance on equipment  ? Used Remedy ticket logging to track and resolve customer trouble tickets  Develop innovative information technology systems to improve performance.  ? Used solarwinds software to monitor network performance, create dynamic network maps, and reduce network outages Data Systems Chief United States Marine Corps, Helmand Province - AF June 2013 to January 2014 Afghanistan  Provided web, email, and telephony services to 10,000 users in a secured network setting.  ? Implementation of traffic filters using standard and extended access-list  ? Manage user accounts using Active Directory services  ? Perform server migrations on live networks  ? Deployed Windows Server 2008 R2 on 2,000 machines  Detailed monthly inventories on all equipment  ? Managed the audits on 4.9 million dollars of gear while having a zero percent loss  ? Kept up to date maintenance logs on all gear  ? Moved equipment including routers, switches, servers, ups, and end devices to different locations as needed  Supervised 57 network administrators in daily operations in support of Operation Enduring Freedom in a hazards environment.  ? Managed a help desk solving all customer issues and tracking daily logs  ? Created multiple teams of administrators assigned throughout the area to manage small networks  Performed duties as Communications Chief  ? Ensured all communications systems were online.  ? Conducted daily briefs on mission goals  ? Command and control all aviation communication departing and arriving on a flight line Security Officer Safe Environmental Business Solutions - Cleveland, OH February 2011 to January 2012 Maintains a safe and secure environment for clients and visitors  ? Patrolled property  ? Monitored surveillance video equipment; inspecting buildings, equipment and access points permitting entry.  ? Conducted daily written reports on all activity on property  ? Enforced company policies while upholding internal control of regulations consistently.  ? Responded to and resolved all client emergencies and phone calls requesting assistance. Education Certificate of Completion in Test scheduled Cuyahoga Community College Metro Campus October 2016 Certificate of Completion in Test scheduled Cuyahoga Community College Metro Campus October 2016 CCNA Cuyahoga Community College Metro Campus Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, DNS, EXCHANGE, FIREWALLS, SOLARWINDS, TCP/IP, DHCP, LAN/WAN, NETWORK CONNECTIVITY, REMOTE ACCESS, TCP, VMWARE, FTP, GHOST, GHOST IMAGING, IOS, IMAGING, FIBER OPTIC, POWER SUPPLIES, Information Security, Cyber Security, Network Security Additional Information SKILLS  ? Cisco Routers: 1800, 2600, 2800, 2900  ? Cisco Switches: 2900, 3560, 3650, 3750, 3850, 4500  ? Servers: Windows Server 2003/2008/2012, DNS, TFTP, Microsoft Exchange, NTP, FTP, DHCP, SCCM  ? Ups, Power supplies, Printers  ? Cabling: Cat5e, Fiber optic, Coax  ? Network Management: Solarwinds, VLANS,  ? TCP/IP and troubleshooting network connectivity, LAN/WAN, WLAN, and Firewalls  ? Cisco IOS, Windows XP/Vista/7/8/10  ? Ghost Imaging, WDS, Sysprep, Remote Access  ? VMware, Active Directory Services, Cisco Cloudlock, Office 365