Information Technology Auditor Information Technology Auditor Information Technology Auditor - Gartner Landover, MD Seeking an Information System Auditor or Security analyst position. Over five years of experience in auditing and evaluation, risk assessments, system security monitoring, and testing security controls. Work Experience Information Technology Auditor Gartner January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:    • Plan annual internal audit schedule based on results of the Internal Audit risk assessment.  • Perform intermediate and advanced level audits, including reviews of cybersecurity, internal applications, systems currently being developed and/or implemented, and technology infrastructure, in execution of the annual internal audit plan.  • Conduct audits of IT processes and functions based on SOX, ISO 27001 & ISO 27002 frameworks for operating systems, databases, platforms, cloud implementations and emerging technologies.  • Design and perform IT and infrastructure HIPAA audits related to information security policy, regulations, governance, and other security-related provisions and best practices.  • Identify new rules issued by the applicable regulatory or governing body to remain current on auditing, emerging technologies, and regulatory trends.  • Provide guidance to stakeholders on required actions (systems planning and development projects), potential strategies, and best practices for closure of identified weaknesses.  • Support both internal and external audit activities including records collection, coordinating with other departments to collate all relevant information.  • Categorize internal and external audit results and communicating findings, including recommendations, to key stakeholders.  • Monitor the Information Security Compliance mailbox for inquiries from state and federal regulatory agencies.  • Provide development guidance and assists in the identification, implementation, and maintenance of compliance policies, procedures and work instructions. Security Analyst Gartner March 2016 to December 2017 Responsibilities:    • Coordinated schedules and deadlines for assessment activities.  • Interviewed System Administrators in generating reports and artifacts in support of the A&A process.  • Reviewed system categorization, Initial Risk Assessment, E-authentication, PTA, PIA, SAR, SSP, SAP& POA&M.  • Updated System Security Plans (SSP), Risk Assessments, and drafting Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&Ms).  • Followed up on security weaknesses and recommendations to ensure corrective actions have been implemented.  • Held kick-off meetings with ISSO and system owners prior to assessment.  • Conducted security assessment on low and moderate systems using NIST framework.  • Assist in review and update information Security System Policies, System Security Plans and Risk Assessment Reports in accordance to NIST.  • Identified and document failed controls in Security Assessment Report (SAR).  • Tracked and update Plan of Action and Milestone (POA&M).  • Retested remediated controls in order to ensure compliance with security requirements.  • Reviewed scan results to enable POA&M closure. IT Security Consultant Apex Systems February 2015 to March 2016 Responsibilities    • Conducted kick-off meeting in order to categorize agency's systems according to NIST requirements of low, moderate, and high systems.  • Implemented proper security controls using NIST 800-53 rev 4 as a guide  • Assessed and review Contingency plans using NIST 800-34  • Conducted Privacy Impact Analysis (PIA) to determine all risks in collecting PII.  • Performed security categorization (FIPS 199), Privacy Threshold Analysis (PTA), and E-Authentication with business owners and selected stakeholders  • Assisted with the development of Contingency Plans (CP), Disaster Recovery Plans. And Incidence Response Plans for information systems using NIST 800-34 as a guide  • Created ATO Package documents: SSP, SAR, and POA&M based on security assessment performed on systems.  • Updated Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&M) and Risk Assessment based on findings assess through monthly updates  • Ensured Configuration Management Processes are followed to ensure any changes do not introduce new security risks. Junior IT Auditor CVS Health January 2014 to February 2015 Responsibilities:    • Developed, documents and maintain consistent audit tracking model and framework  • Conducted 3rd party risk assessments to enable the business and ensure compliance with laws and contractual requirements.  • Conducted vendor risk assessment using Standardized Information Gathering Questionnaire (SIG Core/SIG-Lite) to assess service providers during onsite or virtual assessments.  • Applied experience in audit, security and regulatory frameworks including ISO 27001, SOX, HIPAA, COSO/COBIT.  • Conducted related ongoing compliance monitoring activities to ensure effectiveness of implemented controls  • Produced third Party Vendor Assessment reports that clearly articulate risks  • Translated security risk and communicate effectively to business partners within the organization.  • Monitored and track best practices and emerging compliance changes/impacts for continuous improvement opportunities  • Prepared written responses to routine security and compliance inquiries by preparing, modifying documents including correspondence, reports, drafts, memos and emails.  • Coordinated audit-related activities with internal stakeholders and external auditors, and validating contractual obligations to ensure compliance Receptionist Feba Security Services June 2012 to October 2013 Responsibilities:    • Greeted clients and guests  • Provided a warm and friendly reception  • Answered multi-line phone system  • Scheduled appointments for clients  • Managed and ordered office supplies as needed  • Work closely with personnel to ensure all calendars for conference rooms are updated  • Filed, Scanned, and photocopied Education Bachelors of Science in Computer Networks and Cybersecurity in Computer Networks and Cybersecurity University of Maryland University College - Largo, MD December 2018 Skills Nessus, Nist, Security, Authentication, Sap, Change management, Configuration management, Risk assessment, Contingency planning, Sarbanes-oxley, Sarbanes-oxley act, Vulnerability assessment, Sar, Excel, Microsoft office, Outlook, Powerpoint, Word Certifications/Licenses Security+ Additional Information SOFTWARE/KNOWLEDGE    Microsoft office suite, Word, PowerPoint, Excel, Outlook, SORN, E-Authentication, PTA, PIA, SSP, SAP, ST&E, SAR, MOU, ATO, NIST SP 800 series, Access Controls, Configuration Management, Change Management, Contingency Planning, Sarbanes-Oxley Act, Risk Assessment, POA&M Management, Continuous Monitoring, Vulnerability Assessment, Security Assessment & Authorization, CSAM, Nessus Vulnerability Scan, Windows