Site Reliability Engineer II Site Reliability Engineer II Site Reliability Engineer II - United Natural Foods Inc Moosup, CT Work Experience Site Reliability Engineer II United Natural Foods Inc 2019 to Present Driving architecture  changes throughout IT operations to improve process automation, monitoring, and core platforms.  Capitalizing on new strategies to break down silo and urge synergies to push more deliverables. Systems Administrator & Programmer United Natural Foods Inc 2015 to 2019 Focused on Enterprise level monitoring and automation of environment tasks and processes. Security Administrator United Natural Foods Inc 2014 to 2015 Assist with user provisioning, access changes and terminations that reside on the UNFI network, including, but not limited to;  business applications and file servers. Support for developing and maintaining Identity management  processes, Access management authentication and entitlements. IT Consultant Solomon Schechter Academy 2011 to 2015 Consult on computer infrastructure  needs, as well as decide and implement plans for future needs and accommodations. Work with school staff and officials for a best fit plan of agenda. Service Desk Analyst II United Natural Foods Inc 2013 to 2014 Handled a high call volume in a corporate environment, including system crashes, customer troubleshooting, connection issues and  software and hardware failures. High Priority on documenting and escalating tickets. Computer Technician / IT Intern New London Public Schools 2011 to 2013 Handled technical  troubleshooting within a school environment, including system crashes, slow-downs and data  recoveries. High Priority on documenting and escalating tickets. Re-imaging machines and replacing  broken components or units. IT Analyst / Intern Pearce Computer Associates 2009 to 2011 Handled technical  troubleshooting within a school environment, including system crashes, slow-downs and data  recoveries. Engaged and tracked Priority 1 issues, with responsibility for the timely documentation, escalation (if appropriate), resolution and closure of trouble tickets. Education Diploma Lowell Business and Technical Institute - New London, CT June 2011 Diploma in Computer Information Systems in Technology Summary College Studies 2009 to 2011