Information Security Analyst Information <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> contractor Greensboro, NC To further my professional career as an Information/Client Systems Technician in order to sustain and operate systems through effective troubleshooting, reporting security incidents and executing corrective security procedures. My goal is to proficiently perform computer repair and system performance analysis, while managing client user and organizational client device accounts. Also to maintain knowledge through self study and working towards new certificates and job opportunities. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Information Security Analyst Wells Fargo - Winston-Salem, NC March 2019 to Present • Aided in the access rights allocations for various computer systems and applications.   • manage and complete tickets from Wells Fargo’s internal ticketing system and give these computer application access rights to individual employees.   • Completed the steps required for these tickets ensuring accuracy and timely completion. made sure information on tickets is correct as errors may delay employee start dates and will restrict access.   • Made sure the access requested is necessary/within the company’s policies and parameters.   • Occasionally directed to restrict access rights and/or alter system access.  • Analyzing data and then following up with the internal customers to decide if they need to keep the access they have.  • Technical skills to determine whether or not someone should keep the access level they have or if it should be taken away. Desktop Support Technician ESN August 2018 to December 2018 Engineering Services Network  Service Desk/Call Center Manager  (August 2018-Current)                 • Queue management for ticketing system  • Respond to and report outages to superiors  • Ensure that all SLA’s and SLO’s are met per the requirements of the contract with the DoD  •   Operations for both a Tier 1 Helpdesk and a 24 hour call center  •   Answer inbound calls from Doctors assisting with password resets, troubleshoot issues for                 customers remotely via Dameware. contractor Unisys February 2018 to September 2018 Responsible for providing the first-line of post-sales telephone technical support of hardware, systems, sub-systems and/or applications for customers and/or employees. Supporting over 1400 titlemax stores.  ? Answers basic questions about installation, operation, configuration, customization, and usage of assigned products. (Windows 7 and 10) (payment mate) (ingenico debit machines)  ? Applies basic diagnostic techniques to identify problems.Performed via BOMGAR remote system to correct common failures.  ? Escalates complex problems to the Remote Support Engineering staff or Field Engineering. Typically provides technical support for internal and external customers. Escalates complex problems to higher level of expertise within organization. This was done utilizing the Service Now ticketing system.    Some sub software includes:  ? tlx (titlepawn system)  -tlxe  -MS office 365  -Brother printers  - HP printers  -Outlook Webmail  -Tracked network status using Solar winds system Contractor USAF July 2015 to 2016 Single handily kept inventory over 1000+ pieces of computer tech hardware.  ? Was Resposible for troubleshooting and overseeing all finance based software  ? Troubleshooting MS office suite 2010-2013  ? All pc and printer repair from HP to lexmark models.  ? Imaging and deploying new PCs, laptops, iPhones etc. IT Support Specialist Palmetto Health July 2013 to June 2015 Worked independently to prioritize work that provides resolution to help desk cases within establish service level agreement with minimal assistance  ? Performed PC hardware/software installations, configuration, and deployment in accordance with departmental standards, with minimal assistance and uses interruption  ? Installed Citrix Xenapp On PCs, Configured rights in Active Directory For Remote Desktop  ? Created accounts in AD, All Done in Group Policy  ? Used Remedy ticketing system for tracking work orders  ? Troubleshot PC hardware/ software related technical problems in a wired and wireless TCP/IP environment and appropriately escalates unresolved issues  ? Updated devices and inventory databases including appropriate system configuration documents  ? Supported numerous healthcare and office automation software applications running on PCs, laptops, and various handheld devices as it relates to the interoperability with the Operating Systems  ? Performed routine equipment relocations which may involve hardware and/or software configuration changes within established timeliness  ? Maintained a current knowledge of operating systems, diagnostic and repair techniques, and imaging in a multi-facility wired and wireless environment  ? Ability to interpret technical material in books, manuals, and other resources to resolve issues Computer Support Desk Analyst Blue Cross Blue Shield January 2013 to May 2013 Fronted Win 7 migration for organization for over 8,000 PC's.    ? Effectively removed and replaced components and peripherals to restore system operation.  ? Installed and configured software operating systems and applications (ie: printers, scanners, projectors)  ? Provided service to end-users for operation, restoration, and configuration of information systems Helpdesk Analyst/Technician United States Air Force December 2007 to October 2012 Handled technical troubleshooting within an enterprise environment, including system crashes, slow-downs and data recoveries for 5000+ customers and 8000+ systems located on Moody Air Force Base  ? Engaged and tracked Priority 1-4 issues, with responsibility for the timely documentation, and escalation (if required)  ? Resolved and closed over 200+ software fixes and hardware malfunction trouble tickets weekly  ? Provided networking/desktop support and perform mainframe and account maintenance  ? Performed configuration, management, and troubleshooting  ? Exceeded issue-resolution targets and achieved exemplary customer service satisfaction scores, consistently scoring between 95%-100% on all calls rating  ? Handled 100+ technical/mission-critical calls daily and consistently met high service standards.  ? Superbly performed client-level information technology support functions    ? Performed client-level Personal Wireless Communication Systems (PWCS) functions  ? Planned, scheduled, and implemented installation and maintenance functions associated with PWCS  ? Managed hardware, software, and Controlled Cryptographic Items.  ? Provided over the phone customer service and troubleshooting to resolve all software and hardware technical issues.    *Available for Relocation & Travel Education degree of System Administration and Security in Technology Summary ITT Technical College 2015 Diploma Leesville High School - Leesville, LA 2007 Skills Desktop Support (10+ years), Active Directory, Help Desk, Comptia Military Service Branch: USAF Service Country: United States Rank: SrA December 2007 to November 2013 Branch: United States Air Force Rank: SrA Certifications/Licenses A+ Certified November 2010 to Present