Security Officer <span class="hl">Security</span> Officer Supervisor Marion, IN I am a highly organized problem solver with excellent communication and logistic skills. Recently, I experienced a close loss in the family that made it impossible to work third shift and on the weekends. My resignation was respectfully accepted. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Security Officer Securitas Security Services - Kokomo, IN September 2018 to April 2019 • Follow and document all protocols and procedures each shift  • Engage escalation protocols as required  • Inform and explain new protocols to security personnel  • My resignation was accepted. My reason pertained to severe family medical matters and the inability to transfer from third shift. Supervisor / IT Diagnostics Associated Growers INC - Van Buren, IN April 2014 to October 2018 • Managed all hourly employees including new hires and terminations  • Processed payroll  • Set up a P2P server routed through a VPN (Double Encryption)  • Trained company employees on computer and internet usage  • Provided employee training on the following applications: AgPro, ADP Workforce Now, and Microsoft Suite Detail Technician Associated Growers INC - Marion, IN January 2018 to July 2018 Seasonal, second job during farming off season)    • Cleaned and detailed assigned vehicles  • Transported vehicles from across 48 states Lead Cook Pizza Hut Bistro - Marion, IN November 2013 to April 2014 Seasonal, second job during farming off season)    • Prepared food according to company standards  • Cleaned and maintained a healthy work environment Hydraulic Systems Analyst Technician Butterworth Industries - Gas City, IN February 2010 to November 2013 • Diagnosed, troubleshot, and repaired machines including Gerber G7, Gerber GTXL, and Gerber Model S-3200  • Connected, set up, and provided all company training on 10 iPads  • Provided training to all employees on production integrated system application on iPad  • Job lost due to company-wide lay off. Education Diploma Marion High School 2009 Skills Organizational Skills, Word, Customer Service, Typing, Management, Excel Assessments Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Highly Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/jja1yhhbzl98fjxa Verbal Communication — Expert May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to effectively convey information when speaking. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/fpghihdtphrxhikz Supervisory Skills: Interpersonal Skills — Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to maintain productive team working relationships by identifying conflict and settling disputes. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ehurw7mzagkw3zgs Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.