Network Engineer Network Engineer Network Engineer - Mazda Motor Corporation Irvine, CA Work Experience Network Engineer Mazda Motor Corporation - Irvine, CA August 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked for Mazda's Operations managing its internal network.  • This included managing multiple devices such as Cisco Nexus Series Switches (7K series, 5K series and 2K fabric extenders), Firewalls (Cisco ASA, Checkpoint NGX) at different points in the network.  • Network monitoring and alerts triage was part of the proactive approach to maintaining high level of service.  • Analyzing and implementing the changes related to security policies, NAT and VPNs on the firewalls  • Responsible for troubleshooting the security incidents, providing L1 & L2 support for the Security devices.  • Managing & troubleshooting the IPSEC VPN tunnels with customers & business partners configured on Cisco devices.  • Working on ticketing tools such BMC Remedy and following ITIL standards. Network Engineer Apple Inc - New Delhi, Delhi March 2016 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Member of the Tier1/2 team managing network and security operations for Apple Inc. across four Datacenters in the USA. This includes direct experience on various network devices like multi-layer network switches (Cisco Nexus series and Juniper MX series), Routers, and Firewalls (Cisco ASA, Juniper SRX)  • Product Exposure on Cisco Nexus Series Switches (7K series, 5K series and 2K fabric extenders), Juniper MX series switches, Cisco, Checkpoint, Juniper Firewalls, Cisco - Routers 7200, RSA Authentication Server.  • Knowledge of virtualization environment of both servers and applications along with the use of hypervisor technologies  • Experience of automating Network provisioning and configuration tasks utilizing Python scripts  • Adhering to strict SLAs and working on the Apple Central-Station ticketing tool (based on Service-Now)  • Experienced working and coordinating with TAC teams and Site Engineers on planned/unplanned tasks and maintenance activities. Network Engineer Oncor Electric Delivery Company - New Delhi, Delhi October 2014 to March 2016 Responsibilities:  • Part of a Shared Global SOC Operations team managing 3 US-based customer accounts such as Oncor electric delivery Company, Dr. Pepper Snapple Group and MTaaS (HCL Internal)  • Responsible for troubleshooting the security incidents, providing L2 support for the Security devices.  • Troubleshooting of Network security related issues including Cisco ASA Firewalls, Checkpoint Firewall, Anyconnect VPNs, Palo Alto Firewall and RSA Authentication Server.  • Managing configuring & troubleshooting multiple IPSEC Site to Site VPN tunnels, SSL Clientless and SSL Cisco Anyconnect VPN with customers & business partners configured on Cisco ASAs.  • Analyzing and raising the change request received using Remedy tool and providing guidance with respect to technical requirement of customer.  • Analyzing and implementing the changes related to security policies, NAT and VPNs on the firewalls.  • Administration role in assigning RSA tokens in relation with Anyconnect VPN client and troubleshooting the issues related with it.  • Working on ticketing tools such BMC Remedy and Service-Now.  • Following ITIL process including Incident management and Change management Security Analyst L1/L2 P&G Procter & Gamble - New Delhi, Delhi August 2013 to September 2014 • Active member of P&G SOC team managing the Security Infrastructure of P&G spread across various Business Units & geographical locations.  • Responsible for troubleshooting the security incidents, providing L1 & L2 support for the Security devices.  • Troubleshooting of Network security related issues including Checkpoint Firewall and Nortel VPN boxes.  • Analysing the change request received and providing guidance with respect to technical requirement of customer.  • Analysing and implementing the changes related to security policies on the firewall  • Managing & troubleshooting the IPSEC VPN tunnels with customers & business partners configured on Cisco Routers for all locations across globe.  • Managing the checkpoint firewall clusters via Provider1 and AlgoSec Configuration management tool.  • Handling Checkpoint NGX R72, R70, R65 via multiple management servers in a distributed environment and troubleshooting issue reported for access.  Working on ticketing tools such as HP Service Centre (HPSC) and HP Service Manager (HPSM) IT Analyst - L2 Support British Telecommunications Group PLC - New Delhi, Delhi July 2012 to July 2013 • Responsible for troubleshooting the security incidents, L2 support for BT managed Security devices (Checkpoint Firewalls)  • Carrying out the Change Management activities as per the client's requirements tasks include Analysis of the existing rule bases and implementing the new changes or modifying the existing firewall policies on Checkpoint R60, R65, R70.30.  • Incident handling and root cause investigation.  • Working on BMC Remedy Expedio IM ticket system for incident management and Expedio OM for change management for Service Requests.  • Interacting with different team across customer and BT for planning and configuration change.  • Ensuring end customer requirement are implemented within SLA and as per the customer expectation. SOC Analyst - L1 Support Unilever - New Delhi, Delhi April 2011 to June 2012 • First Line support for firewall and IPS/IDS devices across the globe in a 24*7*365 environment  • Experience in creating and handling daily Incident & Change Management tickets on BMC Remedy and following-up for CTO and senior management approvals.  • Proactive Monitoring of any new alarms for multiple customers, incident management queues and monitoring tools like Nagios and Epic.  • Proactive Monitoring and filtering out all potentially critical alerts from syslog configured email alerts.  • Customer support through emails and hotline assistance  • First Line support for IPS Support, Firewall Support and Remote Access Support Teams  • Follow critical Sev1 and Sev2 incident processes and providing the resolution within the defined SLA's.  • Response on mails. Handling escalations. Education Masters of Science Grand Valley State University - Grand Rapids, MI Masters in Distributed Systems Nagpur University - Nagpur, Maharashtra Management, Disaster Management BMC Skills SECURITY (6 years), CISCO (5 years), CHANGE MANAGEMENT (5 years), FIREWALL (5 years), OPERATIONS (4 years) Additional Information Key Skills  * LAN/WAN Management  * Multi-Vendor Firewall Administration.  * VLAN Security  * SSL and IPSEC VPN    * Data-Center Operations  * Cisco Nexus Series Switches  * AAA, Tacacs+, RADIUS, ACS  * Incident and Change Management    * Network Security Operations  * Network/Packet Analysis  * Python Network Automation  * AWS Cloud Technologies