Security Engineer III <span class="hl">Security</span> Engineer III Security Engineer III - HealthSun Health Plans by Anthem Jupiter, FL Work Experience Security Engineer III HealthSun Health Plans by Anthem January 2019 to Present • Provide support for security solutions that include SIEM, vulnerability Management, DLP, identify and Access Management, PAM, 2FA, among others.  • Review results and takes action on systems, security scans, and penetration logs.  • Execute tasks on security projects including development of requirements, evaluation of competing products, selection and implementation.  • Implement responses to internal & external audits, penetrations test and vulnerability assessments.  • Implement the application of fixes, patches, and recovery procedures in the event of a security incident.  • Research emerging technologies in support of security enhancement and development efforts.  • Perform complex configuration changes to meet business and information security requirements.  • Develop and maintain technical and support (knowledge articles) documentation for all systems supported.  • Respond to Level 3 changes and requests; lead Level 1 and 2 incident recoveries and root cause analysis. Security Engineer II HealthSun Health Plans October 2018 to January 2019 • Reviewed results and took action on systems, security scans, and penetration logs.  • Participated in security incident investigations.  • Implemented responses to internal & external audits, penetrations test and vulnerability assessments.  • Played important part in vulnerability assessment team including tools' management and incident remediation.  • Validated and verified system security requirement definitions and analysis.  • Worked with Security Information Event Management (SIEM), vulnerability Management, Data Loss Prevention (DLP), identify and Access Management, Firewall, eDiscovery and Litigation Support tools.  • Provided Level 1 & 2 support as needed to resolve security related issues and took necessary preventive actions. Security Engineer I HealthSun Health Plans March 2017 to October 2018 • Provided documentation and data collection support.  • Configured and managed Antivirus ePO console and all components (DLP, Drive Encryption, Endpoint Security.)  • Performed monthly user access, and unauthorized software reviews followed by remediation and documentation.  • Assisted in the evaluation and implementation of new security technologies.  • Implemented, as directed, appropriate response measures to security threats.  • Categorized support problems and responded with the appropriate level of urgency.  • Ran vulnerability assessment scans to ensure software was patched and controls in place to protect against threats.  • Designed training manuals to increase security awareness throughout company.  • Employed various technical methods to safeguard customer data. IT Support Analyst III HealthSun Health Plans December 2014 to February 2017 • Provided Level 3 support to effectively determine and formulate a diagnosis for hardware or software issues.  • Worked alongside with Networking, Security and System Engineering teams on completing projects; including Cisco devices configuration, Mobile devices management and encryption, and others.  • Troubleshoot of computer elements based on issues related to different systems and applications.  • Managed and kept MS Active Directory liability by administering user's information.  • Created and edited knowledge based articles to keep organizational documentation up to date.  • Oversaw hardware and software and keep updated with latest technology.  • Implemented and managed IP Address Management (IPAM), WSUS server, HEAT software, among others.  • Configured and manage McAfee agent, HIPS and drive encryption to devices within the organization from EPO.  • Assisted educational workshop on Palo Alto Network Course 201. NOC Operator Telefonica Global Solutions February 2014 to November 2014 • Proactively monitored and analyzed network performance including MPLS/VPN network infrastructures.  • Identified and reported incidents to the corresponding local provider.  • Assisted both client and provider with configuration issues, initial, ongoing or final troubleshooting.  • Provided excellent Customer Service; assisted by periodically updating client on work and escalation process.  • Responsible for proper escalations within the company or to other organizations as required.  • Executed Level 1 and level 2 troubleshooting process to isolate network issues.  • Implemented troubleshooting support for transmission circuits with the assistance of network topologies.  • Implemented topology guidelines in order to obtain and provide a clear understanding of actual situations.  • Documented and delivered a clear Reason for the outage to clients. Office Manager Florida International University August 2012 to January 2014 • Preserved office services by organizing office operations and procedures, preparing payroll, controlling correspondence, designing filling systems, reviewing and approving supply requisitions, and assigning and monitoring clerical functions.  • Maintained office staff by recruiting, selecting, orienting, and training employees.  • Completed operational requirements by scheduling and assigning employees; following up on work results.  • Cultivated professional and technical knowledge by attending educational workshops.  • Achieved financial objectives by preparing an annual budget, scheduling expenditures, analyzing variances, and initiating corrective actions. Intern Intercos C.A - Victoria, LA February 2009 to March 2011 Venezuela  • Designed and implemented the company's website.  • Coded basic HTML with the use of Adobe Dreamweaver.  • Worked with basic JavaScript, Photoshop, Flash and related concepts of 3rd party component interactions.  • Created and edited CSS files to achieve web page design goals.  • Learned project and task management processes.  • Executed general duties as troubleshooting Desktops, connecting printers and computers to the Network. Education Master of Science in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering Florida International University - Miami, FL December 2013 Bachelor's in Computer Science Universidad Bicentenaria de Aragua 2011 Skills Security, Data loss prevention, Dlp, Information security, Nessus, Network Security, Palo Alto, Mcafee, Siem Certifications/Licenses Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH) 2019 to 2023