Assessor/Information Security Analyst Assessor/Information <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Assessor/Information Security Analyst - Cybersoft Technologies Corporation Bowie, MD Well versed at communicating with stakeholders to provide accurate reporting and information regarding ongoing projects and initiatives. Superior capacity to solve complex problems involving a wide variety of information systems, work independently as well as a team member, and thrive under pressure in a fast-pace environments while directing multiple projects from concept to implementation. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Assessor/Information Security Analyst Cybersoft Technologies Corporation January 2016 to Present • In-depth knowledge of FIPS 199 (Categorization of Information & Information Systems), FIPS 200 (Minimum Security Requirements for Federal Information & Information Systems), NIST SP 800-53 ( Security & Privacy Controls), NIST SP 800-53A, NIST SP 800-30 (Risk management guide) and NIST SP 800-37 (Guide for applying the RMF)  • Performed continuous monitoring activities by evaluating and reporting the status of information system security and directs corrective actions to eliminate or reduce identified risks.  • Conduct security assessment through interviews, document reviews and examinations to determine the security posture of the information system and populate the Requirements Traceability Matrix (RTM) according to NIST SP 800-53A.  • Conduct kick-off meeting with the stakeholders.  • Supported the Information Assurance (IA) team to conduct risk assessments, documentation for Security Control Assessment, vulnerability testing and scanning.  • Prepared/Reviewed and submit Security Assessment Plan (SAP) to Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) for approval.  • Prepares and updates Security Assessment Report (SAR)  • Collaborate with ISSO's in remediating audit findings, security planning and reporting, and ensure mitigation of security vulnerabilities are completed in a timely manner.  • Initiate compliance and vulnerability scan requests to identify and report weaknesses and potential security breaches.  • Developed for ensuring that Security Authorization packages such as System Security Plan (SSP), Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&M) - (for identified vulnerabilities and performed compliance monitoring).  • Participated in the system categorization using NIST 800-60 and FIPS 199  • Develop/update and review Plan of Action and Milestone (POA&M) Reports  • A proven project and team player with aptitude for good customer service  • Excellent communication skills Assessor/ Information Assurance Analyst BonView Consulting Group October 2014 to December 2015 • Performed data gathering techniques (e.g. questionnaires, interviews and document reviews) in preparation for assembling Security Assessment and Authorization (A&A) packages.  • Updated Plan of Action & Milestones (POA&M) and Risk Assessment based on findings assessed through monthly updates.  • Utilizes the Cyber Security Assessments and Management (CSAM) to record, manage, and assess common threats and vulnerabilities. Tracks and manages POA&M in CSAM.  • Performed vulnerability scanning on network, web applications and databases to identify security threats and vulnerabilities.  • Ensured security policies, procedures, and recommendations comply with NIST, FISMA, organizational guidelines, and technical best practices IT Support Specialist BonView Consulting Group October 2012 to October 2014 • Provide base level IT supports to both internal and external customers.  • Log all complaints and inform customers about issue resolution progress.  • Assign issues to appropriate support group for thorough support and prompt resolution.  • Log defects and verify defect fixes.  • Support users having data and network connectivity issue.  • Provides first level support to customers before escalation.    Functional areas of expertise include:  Security Assessment and Authorization, Risk Assessment, Nessus Vulnerability Scanner - review and documentations, Penetration Testing, Risk Management Framework, Knowledge of Virtualization (VMware), Security Training & Awareness, Incidence Response, Microsoft Word, Excel and PowerPoint Education B.S. in Business Administration University of Benin M.B.A. in Marketing Southeastern University - Washington, DC Skills Cyber Security (3 years), Compliance (3 years), Active Directory, HTML, testing, Security, access Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ November 2017 to November 2020 A valid IT Specialist certification