Senior IT Support Specialist Senior <span class="hl">IT</span> Support Specialist Senior IT Support Specialist Sunnyside, NY Work Experience Senior IT Support Specialist Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer February 2018 to October 2018 • Administering and maintaining Blackberry UEM Server, RSA Console, Good Server, Director Server, Citrix, VMWare. Creating user profiles with specific access privileges and within their security division. Deploying UEM Client remotely to user's mobile devices with necessary applications related to user's job function. Updating firm wide devices and device information regularly via PowerShell script.  • Providing help desk remote support on office applications, citrix xen app, law applications, and all other computer issues. Attending to customers desk and assisting with hardware and software issues, team of 2 providing support for 500+ users.  • Setting up and Monitoring Video Conferencing system and recording live video sessions, dial in with LifeSize Cloud. Desktop Support Analyst Blackstone October 2017 to January 2018 • Help Desk Support call center providing troubleshooting and support for Citrx XenApp, MDM, Office365, Printer, Obtaining Dump Files escalating tickets to End User Computing Team.  • Rebuilding hardware, computers, reimaging, and performing IMACD, assisted customers on floors providing routine rounds.  • Installing Cisco Routers and Switches and racking/stacking servers. Patching servers and routers and maintaining organized closet. Information Security Analyst Citigroup June 2016 to September 2017 • Performed high level penetration testing on internal systems, infrastructure and web applications with the use of popular pen testing tools (Burpsuite, Social Engineering Tool Kit, Metasploit, etc.). Found common web site security issues (XSS, CSRF, Session Fixation, SQL injection, information leakage etc.)    • L1 Security Operations support with monitoring Splunk global traffic and performing threat analysis on anomalies. Researched Dark Web for potential threats such as 0 day threats and pulled reports from Dark Web to index match with anomalies with high severity alerts.    • Scanning URL's on the Qualys SSL Labs, generate reports and submit it to business user acceptance to fix potential cyber threats. Scanned binaries in massive, finding issues and generate reports. Handling kickoff calls for Lite Scan Assessment team and review testing requirements with business.