Pricing Analyst Pricing <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Current student working towards a Masters of Business (MBA) on Business Analytics and Information Technology at Lenoir-Rhyne University after receiving a full scholarship for the spring semester of 2019. Currently seeking full-time employment to use strong analytical, programming and leadership abilities to become a valued asset for your business. Ellicott City, MD I have been working since I was 8 years old doing everything from weeding yards and selling high end performance apparel to being up at 5 am to carry turkeys to cars at Maple Lawn Farms in Maryland as it is pouring down rain, for tips. I understand the definition of hard work and to never stop learning. Being 24 now, I have learned over the years to understand the value of a dollar and what it means to be dedicated and determined to be the best at what you do. I have had many set backs in life, including a time when I should have died on the operating table and through all of that I fought back to be the person I am today. I will never admit to having the easy road in life and I know if you decide to bring me in for an interview you will understand further how I am as an employee and how I will be an asset for you and your company. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Pricing Analyst Total Wine & More - Bethesda, MD June 2019 to Present Head Coach Team Maryland Lacrosse Club - Frederick, MD October 2016 to May 2019 • Responsible for bringing together a group of young athletes who have more than likely never played together with each other.  • Develop the team and create groups of players who work well together to create the most competitive team possible.  • Promoted to Head Coach in fall of 2018 Junior Securities Analyst Wells Fargo - Columbia, MD September 2018 to December 2018 • Responsible for coding and deployed data within Excel VBA, Microsoft Access and SQL creating, as well as updating macros/programs to generate internal and external reports to be utilized employees and affiliates in order to analyze potential loans’ credit worthiness.  • Communicated with lenders on a regular basis on potential issues with loans  • Spent time problem solving when an issue occurs within a macro or a report and determine as soon as possible the issue and resolve so the macro ran as efficiently as possible.  Owner and Operator Three Boys Lawn Service - Ellicott City, MD April 2011 to September 2018 • My brothers and I owned and operate a small landscaping business.  • Responsible for finding new potential clients, handle the finances and operate the lawn mower if needed.  • This was a business we started from the ground up competing with other landscapers in the area with more years of experience. In order to grow we have done everything from knocking on doors to going into price competition with our competitors. IT/Cyber Security - Internship Frederick County Bank - Frederick, MD May 2016 to August 2016 • Helped develop and implement the cloud software that they still use today  • Created a competitive profile for Frederick County Bank to help make them more competitive within the market place  • Reprogrammed computers Sales Associate and Management Trainee Sports Authority - Columbia, MD September 2013 to December 2015 • Obtain expert knowledge on products to provide customers with the proper product for their needs.  • Train new employees on products and procedures.  • Begin learning management processes and procedures throughout the day. Education Master's in Business (MBA) in Business Analytics and Information Technology Lenoir-Rhyne University Charles Snipes School of Business and Economics - Hickory, NC August 2017 to August 2019 Bachelor of Arts in Information Systems Management & Computer Science Hood College - Frederick, MD August 2015 to May 2017 Skills C++ (1 year), EXCEL (4 years), JAVA (2 years), SQL (1 year), POWERPOINT (4 years), Lindo/Lingo (1 year), Rapid Miner (1 year), HTML (Less than 1 year), Word (4 years), Tableau (1 year), VBA (1 year), Project Management, Management, training Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/weston-bimstefer-388691a8/ Awards Mac Commonwealth Honor Roll 2017-05 Given to student-athletes in the Mac Commonwealth Conference who show outstanding performance in the classroom. Dean's List 2017-05 Earned an overall GPA of 3.53 upon graduating Inducted into Delta Mu Delta National Business Honorary 2019-05 Inducted for showing excellence in education while earning my MBA. Mac Commonwealth Honor Roll 2016-05 Given to student-athletes in the Mac Commonwealth Conference who show outstanding performance in the classroom. Certifications/Licenses Real Estate License - Salesperson July 2018 to July 2020 Additional Information Software Skills  Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Tableau, C++, SQL, Rapidminer, WEKA, Lindo, Java, PowerBi and Excel Visual Basics (VBA).    Business Skils  Public speaking, Writing, General Management, Time Management, Problem Solving, and Communication