Sr IT Analyst Sr <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Upper Marlboro, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr IT Analyst Exelon - Baltimore, MD July 2017 to Present • Monitoring the availability of the Exelon Data Network environment. Responsibilities include issue isolation and remediation to ensure minimal mean downtime to repair.  • Implement firewall rules/policies within our Checkpoint and ASA firewall environments to meet security requirements.  • Assist in development of policies, standards and guidelines for the enterprise network.  • Perform detailed network diagnostics and troubleshooting to remediate detected/reported network incidents.  • Perform scheduled configuration changes and upgrades on network infrastructure.  • Work with groups within IT Infrastructure and IT Applications in resolving global and local problem issues. Network Security Engineer The Advisory Board Company - Washington City, DC March 2015 to Present • Maintain the underlying network that our users and products run on  • Responsibilities will include configuration of firewalls, VPN, and Load Balancers to handle traffic as we scale our web presence  • Provide usage metrics and make recommendations on network topologies  • Provide configuration templates for network devices  • Perform scheduled maintenance and upgrades on network infrastructure  • Provide 24 hour support for network infrastructure in an on-call rotation  • Analyzing, troubleshooting and correcting network problems remotely and on-site.  • Maintaining and administering perimeter security systems such as firewalls and intrusion detection systems  • Engineer network security components such as firewalls, VPN, load balancers, IPS/IDS  • Troubleshoot & support networking concepts and protocols such as: VLAN, STP, HSRP/VRRP, IP subnetting, routing. Utilizing network tools Tracert, Packet Tracer, NSlookup,   • Responsibilities include: Configure, test and troubleshoot on platforms like Cisco PIX, ASA, FWSM, ACE appliance/module, Nexus 1000, BIG-IP F5 LTM/GTM, Citrix   • Responsibilities include: Configure, Test and Troubleshoot: VPN S2S Tunnels, Anyconnect Profiles, ACLs, NATs, User Access.   • Propose Firewall/LAN/WAN solutions and develop router and switch configurations  • Effectively communicate any network changes with management and fellow team member and create and document project plans and findings on internal Wiki Page.  • Investigate and troubleshoot DNS & DHCP issues as well and create DNS entries and DHCP scopes   • Tools used: Wire Shark, Skynet, Cacti, Splunk, Nagios, Rancid   • Ticketing system: Jira, & Service Desk Plus Network Engineer II Maryland Department of Transportation - Hanover, MD April 2013 to March 2015 • Maximizes network performance by monitor the enterprise network for several state agencies, from a centralized Network Operations Center with a primary focus on ensuring high availability and attainment of service levels.   • Utilize multiple monitoring and diagnostic tools to detect and analyze alarms to provide rapid restoration (Monitoring Tools: Solarwinds Orion, BT Diamond (IPControl), NetID, HP Openview and Insight Manager)   • Troubleshooting and documentation for issues within the network of complex LAN/WAN infrastructure including routing protocols, OSPF & BGP and ISP circuits, and outages; scheduling upgrades; collaborating with network architects on network optimization.  • Design, development and support of technology infrastructure, hardware, software and office systems support and distribution, systems performance management and technology integration functions.  • Coordinates the maintenance and modification of network systems and provides guidance and technical support for LAN/WAN technologies.  • Lab testing & validation prior to implementation of Network Equipment.  • Worked with venders to escalate issues and replace hardware.   • Maintained router and switch configurations updated and changed configurations depending on corporate requirements and documentation.  • Properly adheres to ITIL methodology on any network incidents, problems or changes  • Maximizes network performance by monitoring performance; troubleshooting network problems and outages; scheduling upgrades; collaborating with network architects on network optimization. Network Operation Center Specialist Maryland Department of Transportation - Hanover, MD March 2012 to April 2013 • Duties include: Create Server backup tickets, Run Cisco Works report TACAS and create Network Device backup ticket for failed devices, Create daily report and send to proper personnel, Complete DCR (change request) in CAD (Consolidated Asset Database), Create Turnover Report at the end of shift, Add updates to calendar for scheduled maintenance across the network for transparence, Unlock locked out Accounts in DC through remote conn, Add items to Storerooms-Item Master (Inventory)   • Monitoring Management Tools: Solarwinds (Orion) use to monitor the status of nodes on the network and port security, BT Diamond IPControl use to add to DNS for new and old nodes in the network, Quest Foglight NMS VM/ Spotlight on Exchange, NetID, HP Openview used to monitor the nodes on the network.  • Operating system: Cisco IOS used to troubleshoot layer 2/3 issues investigate possible power outages of various sites and down circuit between networks. Activate and deactivate ports for usage on the network. Clear and Update MAC address of ports for port security.  • Assist various models (maa, mdta, mpa, mta, mva, sha, tso, chart,) help desk with trouble tickets.   • Coordinate with engineers, field technicians and ISPs to develop resolutions for trouble tickets using IBM Maximo Ticketing System to create Service Request (SR) and Incidents then forward to the appropriate party.   • Monitor the enterprise network for several state agencies, from a centralized Network Operations  • Center with a primary focus on ensuring high availability and attainment of service levels.  • Utilize multiple monitoring and diagnostic tools to detect and analyze alarms. Provide rapid  • Restoration of equipment as well as escalation to engineers, field technicians and ISPs.  • Analyze and interpret technical data and/or customer communications to be able to initiate. Certifications/Licenses CCNP October 2015 to October 2017