Senior Site Support Specialist Senior Site Support Specialist IT Service Management - Information Security Analyst Indianapolis, IN Secure a challenging position as an IT Information Security specialist in any  adjunct business environment to facilitate knowledge in other department. Work Experience Senior Site Support Specialist Deloitte Consulting March 2019 to Present Serve as first line of support for newly deployed application to Indiana State  Workers  • Resolve end-user knowledge and skill gaps  • Support the documentation of issues for escalation to the Command Center  • Provide Critical Updates to End-Users  • Provide Information Security Knowledge base and guidance to end-users IT Service Desk Supervisor/ Information Security Analyst Main One Cable Service Company April 2015 to September 2018 • Design, install, support and integrate centralized and distributed network, hardware, operating systems and applications  • Experience in Cisco Call Manager (CUCM), SQL Server, MS Office 365, ServiceNow, Vmware ESX.  • Group policy update Deployment, Application and Policy Update Push Using MS SCCM/SMS, Symantec Endpoint Encryption and Protection Deployment Push.  • Enterprise Printers support /Scanner/CCTV/Biometric Application Support.  • Provide Laptop/Desktop/Windows Service/Printer/Active Directory services.  • Supported Enterprise Application such as MS Dynamics, Salesforce.  • Implements and maintains selected information security technologies within guidelines of policies and in keeping with good project management principles.  • Identifies gaps in protection and recommends solutions to remediate or mitigate the risks associated with the protection gaps  • Information Security Data Analysis using Splunk Enterprise for Big Data Gathering  • Extensive Knowledge in ISO27001, SOC1/SOC2, PCIDSS, CSC, OWASP, NIST Cybersecurity Framework.  • Provides analytical and technical security recommendations to other team members, and client  • Experience in using Vulnerability Assessment/IDS/IPS tools such as Nexpose, Splunk Enterprise, AlienVault,Metasploit, OpenVAS, HP Arcsight SIEM etc. IT Technical Lead Marawin Group of Company - LAGOS, NG November 2012 to March 2015 Laptop/Desktop Support Maintenance. • Design, install, support and integrate centralized and distributed network, hardware, operating  systems and applications.  • Active Directory Support, Creating New User Profile and Email Service  • Log Tickets of calls received and remediate issue based on SLA.  • Support printers (Epson POS), scanners, game box units and connections.  • Recruiting & Training of staffs for new branches  • ERP Experience such as planning, purchasing, inventory, sales,  marketing human resources  • Maintenance of internet and intranet facilities in the organization Google Application Deployment & Marketing Specialist COSMOS NIGERIA LIMITED November 2011 to February 2012 Contract) (Nov 2011-Feb 2012)  • Deployment of Google Applications and Domain Registrations to Clients  • Marketing Google Applications  • Technical Support Team Head  • Updating Customers Websites 3)  • Google for Business deployment and support. IT Officer HYDROTRANS NIGERIA LIMITED June 2011 to November 2011 Contract)  • Adequate maintenance and installation of OS to the organization  • Administration of Windows 2008 Server  • Troubleshooting and repairs of printers, laptops, desktops and major replacements  • Maintenance of internet and intranet facilities in the organization  • Maintenance of organization management software (Profile Integrated  Management Software PIM. Education Bachelor's Skills Active directory (2 years), Bmc (Less than 1 year), Cisco (Less than 1 year), Exchange (Less than 1 year), Service desk (3 years), Desktop Support, Splunk Enterprise (3 years), SCCM (4 years), ITIL (4 years), IT Management (4 years), Office 365 (4 years), Information Security (4 years), Comptia, Help Desk, It Specialist, Network Support, Information Technology, Computer Repair Certifications/Licenses CEH December 2017 to December 2020 Certified Ethical Hacker - EC-Council    Cert Number: ECC99344036901 CompTIA A+ December 2018 to December 2020 Certificate Number: COMP001021330297 Additional Information SKILLS AND SUPPORTED APPLICATIONS    Splunk Enterprise, MS Sharepoint 365, Sales Force, Cisco Unified Communication,  Cisco  VPN, Cisco Jabber, MS office 360, MS Exchange 2013, 2016, Symantec Endpoint Suit,  Windows Server 2008 R2, 2012 R2,2016, Vmware, Fortigate Firewall Devices, MS Azure  CCPS, Cisco Wireless AP's, Biometric Services, BMC Remedy Service Desk Ticketing,  Active Directory, Manage Engine Service Desk, ZenDesk, Nexpose  AlienVault, Metasploit, OpenVAS, HP Arcsight SIEM