Infrastructure Technician Infrastructure Technician Infrastructure Technician - Nextec Memphis, TN Work Experience Infrastructure Technician Nextec - Memphis, TN January 2018 to Present Researched and evaluated state of the art approaches and provided recommendations for innovative  hardware, software and networking solutions • Produced detailed specifications for software and hardware requirements • Hands-on experience with Windows OS environments, switches, firewalls,  WAPS • Familiarized with remote desktop applications and help desk software • Staging and configuring network equipment for site locations • Communicated & documented installations and  incidents to include cause, action, and solution as well as root cause analysis • Analyzed, tested  and modified computer hardware systems and software based on consultations with users and system design specifications • Upgraded network by conferring with vendors; developing, testing,  evaluating, and installing enhancements • Secured network by developing network access, monitoring, control, and evaluation; maintaining documentation. •Receive calls, emails and web inquiries for end  users regarding systems. • Log all received issues into the Help Desk ticketing system and classify  the issue based on support structure. • Provides basic technical and functional support to system  users by telephone or email relative to desktop hardware and software packages. Provide basic level  troubleshooting to uncover known issues. •Provide problem resolution for known issues in a timely  manner or escalate tickets to the next support tier as appropriate. Cyber Security Analyst/CRM Manager Unistar-Sparco Computers October 2016 to January 2018 Certified instructor on training employees about data breach security • Direct experience with anti- virus software, intrusion detection, firewalls and content filtering • Knowledge of risk assessment  tools, technologies and methods • Experience designing secure networks, systems and application  architectures • Knowledge of disaster recovery, computer forensic tools, technologies and methods  • Set up and update emails, manage lists, monitor results and manage the many elements that help  make campaigns successful. • Manage the in-house design of marketing materials: manipulating  images and logos, interpreting briefs to design and produce online marketing collateral Genius April 2015 to October 2017 April 2015 to October 2017  • Diagnosing and troubleshooting desktop system, printer and operating problems • Consulting and instructing users on hardware and software questions/issues • Collaborate with IT Service Center  and Network Infrastructure teams • Install, maintain and upgrade equipment and its associated  infrastructure • Runs diagnostic tests to isolate system problems and make recommendations for potential solutions • Operating Systems Windows, OS-X • MS Office (Windows and Mac) software • Mac  imaging solutions and ability to create Mac images • Experience with Remote Support technologies  such as Remote Desktop (Microsoft), Apple Remote Desktop, VNC • Experience with enterprise wide  rollouts of new operating systems and software • Hands on experience removing viruses and spyware  using various tools • Install, configure and maintain Mac, PC, peripherals Retail Associate Nike Clearance Store April 2012 to February 2015 Greet customers and ascertain what each customer wants or needs. ? Describe merchandise and explain use, operation, and care of merchandise to customers. Recommend, select, and help  locate or obtain merchandise based on customer needs and desires. ? Compute sales prices, total  purchases and receive and process cash or credit payment. Answer questions regarding the store and its merchandise. ? Prepare sales slips or sales contracts. Maintain knowledge of current sales and  promotions, policies regarding payment and exchanges, and security practices. ? Maintain records  related to sales. IT Consultant Nerds at the Cool Table December 2012 to May 2014 Diagnose and repair desktops, laptops and peripheral devices • Perform installation, diagnosis and repair of all computers • Troubleshoot computer hardware and software • Take apart and re-assemble  computer systems as required • Resolve network issues as and when required • Manually set up  computer systems • Prepared daily, weekly and monthly database security reports. • Discussed  cyber security efforts with management. • Performed comprehensive investigations of cyber security  breaches. • Purchased new security software and made update recommendation Help Desk Specialist University of Memphis August 2007 to May 2009 Oversee the daily performance of computer systems. ? Answer user inquiries regarding computer  software or hardware operation to resolve problems. ? Enter commands and observe system  functioning to verify correct operations and detect errors. ? Set up equipment for employee use, performing or ensuring proper installation of cables, operating systems, or appropriate software. ?  Install and perform minor repairs to hardware, software, or peripheral equipment, following design or installation specifications. Education Computer Science University of Memphis Skills EXCHANGE, MICROSOFT OFFICE, WINDOWS 7