Cyber Security Analyst/Incident Response Cyber <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span>/Incident Response Cyber Security Specialist/Information System Security Officer Honolulu, HI Driven Cyber Security Specialist and success oriented professional willing to accept challenges, while maintaining high standards. Ability to collaborate among multiple professionals, work within a multi-disciplinary team and provide effective leadership in fast-paced, deadline driven environments; flexible, self-directed and able work effectively with minimal supervision. Seeking a position that will allow me to enhance my skills and grow as a Cyber Security Specialist Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Cyber Security Analyst/Incident Response Perspecta - Honolulu, HI March 2018 to Present Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills :  Contracted with the Navy located at Ford Island Hawaii  ? Perform network security monitoring and incident response for clients  ? Recognize potential, successful and unsuccessful intrusion attempts and compromises  through review and analysis of relevant event detail and summary information  ? Monitor and analyze Intrusion Detection Systems (IDS) and Security Information and  Event Management (SIEM) to identify security issues for remediation  ? Communicate alerts to client regarding intrusions and compromises to their network  infrastructure, applications, and operating systems Cyber Security Specialist/Information System Security Officer Avening Tech - Honolulu, HI March 2017 to March 2018 Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  Contracted with the Marine Corps located at Kaneohe Marine Base Hawaii  ? Under immediate supervision, responsible for all aspects of Information System (IS), data availability, integrity, authentication, confidentiality, and non-repudiation  ? Implement and monitor security measures for communication systems, networks, and provide advice that systems and personnel adhere to established security standards and Governmental requirements for security on these systems.   ? Execute Government approved security policies, plans, and procedures; implement data network security measures; operate and monitor Network Intrusion Detection and Forensic Systems; conduct IS security incident handling; support COOP/DR plans, and perform certification of IS and networks.   ? Operate Electronic Key Management System, perform other information security duties, and maintain Public Key Infrastructure (PKI).   ? Daily monitoring of the Marine Collection Database (MCD) website for any actions that need to be taken for incident management and compliancy.   ? Maintain active compliance with Operational Directives (OPDIRS) published by the Marine Corps Cyberspace Operations Group (MCCOG) and report progress or compliance through the OPDIR Reporting System (OPDRS) online in a timely manner.   ? Respond to all spillages of Personal Identifiable Information (PII).   ? Work with the Vulnerability Management Team (VMT) with IBM Endpoint Manager (BigFix) patching of Information Assurance Vulnerability Alerts (IAVAs).   ? Performs duties as the organization’s Trusted Agent for the DoD NIPRnet/SIPRnet PKI program. These duties include issuing tokens, tracking usage, and reporting compliancy on all issuances and revocations. PC Technician, Team Leader Vectrus - Colorado Springs, CO June 2015 to March 2017 Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  Contracted for the US Army Corps of Engineers, Fort Shafter, HI  ? Team lead for PC Technician Team at Honolulu District  ? Member of the Level 3 Field Technician, who provide support for the whole enterprise when complex issues arises  ? Member of the Vulnerability Management Team, who are responsible to patching/troubleshooting/installing updates for high IAVA  (information assurance vulnerability alerts) systems  ? Incident Manager (REMEDY) for the District  ? Installs, troubleshoots, services, and repairs personal computers,  network equipment such as servers, modems, multiplexers, related PC  software, telephones, cables and printers  ? Configure, setup, and troubleshoot SIPR VTC issues  ? Provides personal computer, hardware and software support. Installs,  services, and repairs personal computers  ? Connects personal computers and terminals to existing data networks  ? Instructs users in the use of personal computers and networks  ? Investigates information, network, and communications needs of users IT Specialist Assistant University of Hawaii at Manoa @ Colleges of Arts and Science - Honolulu, HI December 2013 to February 2015 Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  ? Install and maintain computers, operating systems, software,  peripherals, and network equipment and cables  ? Maintain web pages using web-based editor, programming tools, HTML  code, and databases  ? Inventory and record keeping of department computers and related  equipment  ? Moving, repairing, and reinstalling computers and peripherals  ? Assist in management of department servers and network  management devices, including firewalls, backup, and wireless devices  ? Services department users with computer and software usage Education Bachelor's in Cyber Security and Information Assurance October 2017 to Present Associate's in Information Technology March 2015 Skills Siem, Cyber Security, Information Security, Nist, Cybersecurity, It Security, Information Assurance, Comptia, Network Security, Linux Certifications/Licenses Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH) CompTIA Security+ CompTIA A+ Secret Clearance CompTIA Network+ Certified Encryption Specialist (CES) System Security Certified Practitioner (SSCP) Project+ Certified Incident Handler (CIH) Additional Information JOB RELATED SKILLS    Technical Skills:  ? Worked with network mapper/ security scanner Nmap, vulnerability scanner  Nessus/ACAS/ Security Center, system management software (BigFix, EPO/HBSS, and  Tanium), security appliance (SMG, Sidewinder G2 Firewall, Forescout, SSIM)  ? STIG Viewer to ensure DOD IA and IA-enabled devices/system are configured to  standards  ? Experiences in programming/scripting languages range from competent to proficient  level. (PHP, C#, C,C++, VBS, VBA, Java, Python, PowerShell, MySQL)  ? Experience in Administering Windows Server (2008 r2, 2012 r2)  ? Networking in Local Area Network, and local/network printer, fax, scanners; Adding and  updating of user profile, resetting user password, managing organizational units in Active  Directory and Remedy; MS Office XP, MS Office 2000, MS Office 2003, MS Office  2007, MS Office 2010, MS Office 2013 (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Access, and  Outlook). Proficient in Windows environment.