IT Field Service Technician <span class="hl">IT</span> Field Service Technician IT Field Service Technician - Daktronics Madison, AL Obtain a challenging career in the fields of Information Security or Information Technology with increasing opportunities for professional growth and development. Work Experience IT Field Service Technician Daktronics - Auburn, AL August 2016 to Present Auburn University  * Troubleshoot video boards, audio visual equipment, pcs, and servers at all Auburn University sporting events  * Responsible for resolving all technical issues; from replacing hardware to fixing network connectivity issues. Information Security Analyst (ISA) Coop/ Security Operations Center (SOC) Synovus Financial Corporation - Columbus, GA November 2017 to April 2019 As an information security analyst my duties include the following but are not limited to: planning and implementing security measures to protect computer systems, networks and data. I stay up-toodate on the latest intelligence, including hackers' methodoligies, in order to anticipate security breaches. I'm also responsible for preventing data loss and service interuptions by researching new technologies that will effectively protect a network..    My daily responbiliby include but are not limited to monitoring computer networks for security issues, investiage security breaches and other cyber security incidents. I install security measures and operate software to protect systems and information infrastructure, including firewalls and data encryption programs. I document security breaches and assess the damange they may have cause and provide solutions and recommendations. I work very closely with memebers of the security team to perform test and uncover network vulnerabilities. I fix detected vulnerabilities to maintain a high- security standard. I provide input into the development of company-wide best preatices for IT security. Lead collegues in the process of how to install software and security software.    In the performance of this job I utilize multiple tools to include the following:  * FireEye EX, NX, and HX to detect malicious IOCs through email, network, and hosts.  * DEMISTO to investigate tickets, and take proper action against security related incidents.  * E-mail gateways to investigate inbound and outbound mailicious content.  * QRADAR and SPLUNK to further investigate malicious content delivered to Synovus emplyees and customers.  * Domain Tools, Virus Total, and URL Query to investigate the history of malicious IP addresses, urls, and hashes.  * FORCEPOINT to analyze what is currently being blocked on the proxy.  * ServiceNow to request blocks on the proxy, machine quarantines, email removals etc IT&S Pathways Intern HCA - Nashville, TN May 2017 to August 2017 HealthTrust Purchasing Group  * Gained knowledge in the Service Desk and Information Security departments.  * Managed employee privleges and groups in Active Directory.  * Managed employee accounts in ESAF.  * Worked with sharepoint administrator to make adjustments to our organization's sharepoint page.  * Learned information security governance policies regarding health care information.  * Used phishing services to test emplyees, and create reports on the results.  * Managed Security Permissions on shared folders.  * Responded to daily employee desktop issues. IT Administration Intern Trident Technologies - Huntsville, AL May 2016 to August 2016 * Retrieved tickets from the ticketing que SysAid.  * Supported and troubleshot network printers for connectivity issues.  * Migrated all laptops and desktops from Windows 7 to Wndows 10.  * Modified user accounts through office 365 and Active Directory.  * Experiemnted with a VMware server, and performed system updates. Tech Services Office Depot January 2015 to May 2016 * Responsible for installing software, and anti virus applications to pcs.  * Responsible for upgrading pcs from windows 8 to windows 10.  * Responsible for communicating with customers to help them find technology and rsolve technology issues. Help Desk Support Campus Technology - Tuskegee, AL January 2014 to December 2014 * Responsible for assiting users with account modifications such as updating passwords and resetting accounts.  * Received 15-20 calls per day that lasted no more than 5 minutes.  * Troubleshoot computers using windows 8operating system.  * Assist users in wifi set up and ensuring a connection. Education BS in Computer Science Athens State University 2019 to 2021 BS in Computer Science Tuskegee University 2012 to 2017