PROGRAM ANALYST PROGRAM <span class="hl">ANALYST</span> PROGRAM ANALYST - Cydecor Inc Ashburn, VA Work Experience PROGRAM ANALYST Cydecor Inc May 2019 to Present Provides oversight and governance to support The Deputy Chief of Naval Operations, Information Warfare (DCNO N2/N6) under the Assured Command and Control (AC2), Command and Control (C2) Programs and Platforms Branch of the OPNAV N2N6F1 Assured Command and Control Directorate at the Pentagon. Manages Eight Command and Control programs and conducts cross-functional reviews for Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution (PPBE) efforts and developing future Navy warfighting capabilities and concepts.  • Coordinates with Program Management Offices to assist in Program Requirements Reviews (PRR) to ensure the programs are supporting the mission of the warfighter.  • Utilizes the Planning Budgeting Information System (PBIS) database to provide senior leadership with accurate data of program budgets.  • Creates N2N6 reference guidebook to ensure that new personnel understands the roles and responsibilities to support the platform branch.  • Collaborates with team members to collect accurate task data for Performance Based Work Statement (PWS).  • Calculates, collects invoice data to ensure the tasks per the contract guidelines. IT CONSULTANT Katias Cylife January 2019 to Present Conducts a 4-month project with cyber companies within the private and public sector. Authors articles on diversity, inclusion and reports on unemployment.  • Research's data results, indicated a job candidate building a network connection through a recruiter for positions resulted in 2 days to receive a phone screen interview. One week to schedule an in person or phone call interview with the hiring manager. 1-2 weeks to receive a rejection email. On the other hand, 1 week to get a contingent offer or final offer.  • Investigates research analysis with a job candidate to apply online through the ATS systems for employment. Results indicated no updated status in the database if a job candidate applied at the end of February.  • Explores options applying to different companies with updated application processes.  • Discovers cleared employment results, companies were searching for candidates in advance for positions that were not funded yet.  • Identifies due to strict contract language some candidates were not eligible for these roles, thus leaving these job vacant for long periods. Katia's Cylife December 2017 to Present Authors cybersecurity career advice blogs based on my experience. Created the site https://katiascylife.tech/ Oversees the daily management and execution of social media content. Researches trends in cybersecurity to improve the cyber workforce  • Serves as an advisor to small business, non-profits, and business leaders of information technology projects.  • Provides insight to cyber students, trainees, and IT leaders on diversity & inclusion strategies, recruiting ideas, workforce development and creates training programs.  • Brings a customer-centric perspective, which has enabled a strong ability to understand higher-level business and achieve client's business objectives.  • Utilize Content Management System (CSM) WordPress to create and manage digital content.  • Defines requirements for cyber professionals utilizing the NIST 800-181 publication. SENIOR TECHNICAL MANAGER PE Systems Inc November 2017 to September 2018 Collaborated with high-level Secretary of Air Force Headquarters (SAF-HQ) at the Pentagon to determine milestones for Digital Engineering (DE. Worked with industry customers and the Office of Secretary (OSD) personnel to conduct market research for business enterprise. Researched and recommend Product Lifecycle Management (PLM) tools. Provided technical support, analyze issues, and recommend solutions for Digital Engineering (DE). Managed projects totaling over $3M. Developed future program business processes for the acquisition services department.  Project Management  • Managed the Software Development Full Lifecycle (SDLC) activities to include the definition of scope, development of schedules, resource planning, risk identification and mitigation, communication with customers and project team members, and oversight of the change management process  • Authored, updated and created drafts for program documentation, generates reviews as well as formal review documentation.  • Provided technical guidance and business process expertise on special projects or system issues to other staff members.  • Authored the Program Protection Plan used to ensure continuity within all projects. Authored technical articles focusing on Digital Engineering for the Air Force Headquarters monthly articles.  • Utilized SharePoint to conduct research and assessments for engineering projects. Used knowledge of using Agile Development methodologies for Digital Engineering projects.  • Collaborated with policy team members for readiness, reviews on policy standards.  • Coordinate with offsite teams and external organizations to conduct data calls as needed. CYBER SECURITY ENGINEER Don Selvy Enterprise June 2015 to November 2017 Recommended and implemented configuration management process improvements and ensures updates are made to cybersecurity  documentation to reflect changes. Knowledge of Systems Development Lifecycle focusing on integration, testing, implementing, operations and maintenance. Authored Implementation Plan to maintain the PLM tool. Assembled packages for acceptance into the cybersecurity repository database. Provided oversight and access to Configuration Management Proficiency (CMPro) accounts.  Facilitated collation for tracking, logging, categorizing, and maintaining changes to the environment. Reviewed the documentation from engineers making changes if necessary and accepting the package into the database.  • Ensured only approved changes are deployed to production and packages that are assembled and all revisions are attached.  • Collaborated with maintenance personnel to solve technical problems.  • Managed the collection of cybersecurity documents in the database ~ 4,000 engineering drawings. Served as the Primary trainer for the engineering team on the use of Product Lifecycle Management tool.  • Updated technical documentation to the Interactive Electronic Technical Manuals (IETMs) as required for secure operations. Analyzed Technical Publication Deficiency Reports (TPDRs) for accuracy.  • Utilized SharePoint document libraries and other SharePoint mechanisms to store, manage, edit, and distribute documents to Customer personnel.  • Reviewed, edited Contract Data Requirements List (CDRL) documentation for cybersecurity data.  PMA-274 Presidential Helicopter - CM-Pro Product Lifecycle Management (PLM) for Configuration Management Team  Coordinated with the Configuration Management team for software evolution and demonstrated best practices to use the CM-Pro software tool. Supported ad hoc team projects through executing, operations, monitoring.  • Phase 1: Identified the current problem, which consisted of not having a software tool for engineers to archive, track, and maintain engineering documents.  • Phase 2: Planned to coordinate with a facilitator to establish the requirements, processes, for the PLM tool.  • Phase 3: Coordinate with vendor to determine a sandbox, reviewed requirements, and tested the CM workflow.  • Phase 4: Deployed the CM processes, and workflow with CM team.  • Phase 5: Maintained the tool, created an Implement plan for best practices. SYSTEM TEST ENGINEER Northrop Grumman Corporation June 2013 to June 2015 Conducted compartmentalized testing procedures after modification of internal systems used by the unmanned air vehicles. Attended test flight events. Collected and analyzed data from testing and scanning activities from several tools. Coordinated and planned contingency test events with operations personnel and engineers. Supervised a team of 10 technicians, overseeing their performance, work assignments, and training. Managed the cybersecurity of the system's configuration and maintenance. Delivered rapid response to data call requests from engineers. maintaining 100% compliance with company and client SLA (Service Level Agreements)  • Maintained the integrity of systems by performing user and acceptance testing on systems. Reviewed cybersecurity documentation for discrepancies after modification activities.  • Tested systems by application checklist requirements in preparation for audit activities.  • Utilized SharePoint to research air vehicle systems of systems.  • Transferred cybersecurity, data to encrypted hard drives to ship to the Headquarters primary site.  • Review the documentation from engineers making changes if necessary and accepting the package into the database.  PMA-268 UCAS-D Unmanned Combat Air System Demonstration- Autonomous Aerial Refueling (AAR Modification)  • Phase 1: Coordinated with Supply Chain Support Team on verifying parts during the modification period, analyzed detailed excel spreadsheet with associated parts list and system engineering drawings.  • Phase 2: Planned to coordinate with system engineers for engineering drawings reviews, for accuracy.  • Phase 3: Deployed software file updates to air vehicle for flight test events.  • Phase 4: Conducted System Check Out (SOC) procedures with maintainers of the unmanned air vehicle. Education MASTER OF SCIENCE IN CYBERSECURITY TECHNOLOGY in CYBERSECURITY TECHNOLOGY University of Maryland University College BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN ELECTRONIC ENGINEERING in ELECTRONIC ENGINEERING Cleveland State University Skills Security, Sharepoint, Software development, Configuration management, Life cycle, Software development life cycle, Sdlc, Ms office, Program management, Microsoft Office, Management, Powerpoint, database Additional Information Areas of Expertise: Project Management, Program Management, System/Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Compliance, Configuration Management, Mentorship, Cloud Security, Leadership    COMPUTER/TECHNICAL SKILLS  Software- Adobe Professional, MS Office Suite, SharePoint, Google Suite  Tools- Task Manager Tool (TMT), Configuration Management Professional (CM-Pro), E Power, Contract Data Requirements List (CDRL) tool, Manufacturing Executive System (MES)