Information Assurance Analyst Information Assurance <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Information Assurance Analyst - EY- Virginia Silver Spring, MD Information Technology professional with 4+ years’ experience in information security, cloud security, IT risk management, Governance and Compliance. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Information Assurance Analyst EY- Virginia March 2015 to Present • Prepare security documentation for systems in preparation of ATO such as PTA (Privacy Threshold Analysis) and PIA (Privacy Impact Analysis) in the event PII is located in system.  • Apply security controls using NIST 800-53 to minimize risks in system  • Assess security and privacy controls using the NIST SP 800-53A Rev4 publication guideline.  • Experience using NIST 800-122 to protect PII information for assigned systems.  • Advice the Agency on any assessment and authorization issues.  • Communicated with System owners to get proper understanding of their systems, Identify the system POCs and also discuss scope of the assessment.  • Review security controls in Microsoft Excel extracted from CSAM data repository tool to see controls in-place for system.  • Utilize CSAM data repository tool to access artifacts and security documentation for system  • Review data elements and data dictionaries in collaboration with the system owner to ensure proper controls are in place.  • Request Artifacts for specific controls from system POCs  • Conducted and performed assessment using NIST 800-53A publication guidance.  • Interviewed process owners for each control for consistency.  • Prepare final Security Assessment Report (SAR) containing the results and findings from the assessment.  • Review security policy documents and make recommendations on documentation compliant.  • Review and approve the SSP in collaboration with the System Owner  • Review the Plan of Action and Milestone (POA&M) with identified weaknesses, timelines, milestones and point of contacts for each IS based on findings and recommendations from the SAR Information Security Data Analyst ICF International - Rockville, MD April 2013 to March 2015 • Conducts project related privacy risk assessments and privacy audits.  • Utilize Microsoft Excel, Word and SharePoint to review data  • Review PII information such as names and address and make sure proper personnel are viewing information  • Familiar with how data should be structured for good readability  • Reviews privacy practices and conducts periodic compliance assessments.  • Provides privacy and data protection training and awareness.  • Reviews client's potential or actual privacy incidents, coordinates or leads the incident or breach management process.  • Prepares reports and other deliverables that contain strategy, project or technical analysis and findings in connection with our consulting engagements and communicates those results to the team and client management.  • Operates as a subject matter expert on privacy risks and audits.  • Interacts effectively with co-workers and clients at all levels, as to foster and maintain strong working relationships.  • Performs other duties as assigned by management.,  • Conducts project related privacy risk assessments and privacy audits.  • Reviews privacy practices and conducts periodic compliance assessments.  • Provides privacy and data protection training and awareness.  • Reviews client's potential or actual privacy incidents, coordinates or leads the incident or breach management process.  • Prepares reports and other deliverables that contain strategy, project or technical analysis and findings in connection with our consulting engagements and communicates those results to the team and client management.  • Operates as a subject matter expert on privacy risks and audits.  • Interacts effectively with co-workers and clients at all levels, as to foster and maintain strong working relationships.  • Performs other duties as assigned by management. IT Security Analyst KPMG - Washington, DC April 2012 to March 2013 • Provided expertise on technical services including all aspects of information security  • Conduct IT risk assessments to identify system threats  • Assessed system design and security posture as well as advising information security compliance with FISMA and NIST SP 800-53 controls.  • Conducted security col assessments to assess the adequacy of management, operation privacy, and technical security controls implemented  • Performed maintenance and advanced configuration of systems in order to protect systems from emerging cyber threats.  • Conducted forensic traffic logs analysis to isolate issues and respond to analyst alerts Education B.S in Information Technology in Information Technology Bowie State University - Bowie, MD August 2008 to May 2011 Skills QA, Quality Assurance, QTP, UFT, Selenium, ALM, SQA Additional Information • FedRAMP  • Cloud Computing Security  • NIST Risk Management Framework (RMF)  • Federal information Security Management Act (FISMA)