Security Assessment Coordinator <span class="hl">Security</span> Assessment Coordinator Security Assessment Coordinator - Business Integra Laurel, MD Work Experience Security Assessment Coordinator Business Integra September 2017 to Present Quality Assurance/Technical writer    • Prepare and Update security documents such as System Security Plan (SSP), Risk Assessment Report (RAR), Security Assessment Report (SAR) Security Assessment Report (SAR) and the Plan of Actions and Milestones (POA&M) prior and after assessments.  • Assist System Owners and ISSOs in preparing Assessment and Authorization packages for client IT systems, making sure that management, operational and technical security controls adhere to formal and well-established security requirements authorized by NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4.  • Initiate kick-off meetings to collect system information to assist in the categorization phase using FIPS 199 and NIST SP 800-60.  • Review and update Contingency Plan (CP) using NIST SP 80-34 guidelines.  • Assist Assessors in documenting and finalizing the Security Assessment Report (SAR) based on the findings discovered from the Security test and Evaluation (ST&E).  • Prepare reports recommending remediation methods for identified vulnerabilities while performing system assessments and evaluations.  • Worked with system administrators, developers and users to ensure compliance with the government policies.  • Applied appropriate information security controls for Federal Information Systems based on NIST 800 Series, 800-37 REV.1 Applying the RMF Risk Management Framework, 800-30, 800- 34, 800-80 SP 800-53 REV.4, FIPS 199 and FIPS 200.  • Responsible for Meeting Minutes and distribute to meeting attendees with Action items for remediation to take place  • Schedule meetings including Adobe Connect and voice conference for all assessment meetings.  • Ensure all documents are edited, formatted and accurate before submitting to the Authorizing Official (AO)  • Serves as point of contact between the Security Assessor and the system Owner in obtaining artifacts. Information Security Analyst MTM Consulting LLC May 2014 to September 2017 • Conducted kick off meetings with assessment stakeholders to discuss the assessment scope, timelines as well as roles and responsibilities of involved parties.  • Undertook IT Control risk assessment to identify system threats, vulnerabilities and risk, and generate reports.  • Developed and conducted Security Test and Evaluations (ST&E) according to NIST SP 800-53A.  • Developed security baseline controls and test plans for assessing implemented system security controls.  • Review and update the System Security Plan (SSP) using NIST SP 800-18 guidelines to provide an overview of the system security requirements and describe the controls in place.  • Developed Security Assessment Report (SAR) detailing the results of the assessment along with Plan of Action & Milestones (POAM).  • Created standard templates for required security assessment and authorization documents; Risk Assessment (RA), System Security Plan (SSP), Contingency Plan (CP) and System Security Plan (SSP).  • Conducted periodic IT Risk Assessment and Reviewed AC controls for any deficiencies and reported to the ISSO for appropriate mitigation actions.  • Assisted in the development of an information security continuous monitoring strategy.  • Risk Assessment (RA), Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA), System Security Test Evaluation (ST&E) and Plan of Actions Milestones (POA&M).  • Worked as part of a Security Control Assessment (SCA) team to assess information systems IT Help Desk UMBC October 2010 to April 2012 • Assisted with technical issues to users concerning the development and maintenance of the computer network or for resolution of special problems  • Handled trouble shooting issues with an enterprise environment including system crashes, Slow-downs and data recoveries  • Tracked and engaged in priory issues with responsibilities for timely documentation and escalation.  • Provided support to internal and external team Education University of Maryland - Baltimore, MD Skills Technical Writing (5 years), Assessment (5 years) Certifications/Licenses Security+ June 2018 to May 2021 Additional Information • Perform Certification and Accreditation documentation in compliance with company standards.  • Develop, review and evaluate System Security Plan based on NIST Special Publications.  • Perform comprehensive assessments and write reviews of management, operational and technical security controls for audited applications and information systems.  • Develop and conduct ST&E ( Security Test and Evaluation) according to NIST SP 800-53A.  • Ability to multi-task, work independently and as part of a team.  • Strong analytical and quantitative skills.  • Effective interpersonal and verbal/written communication skills.  • Security plus Certification