Network Security Analyst Network <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Network Security Analyst - Nortec Communications Annandale, VA Work Experience Network Security Analyst Nortec Communications - Falls Church, VA November 2016 to Present Strengthen security of IT infrastructure by monitoring alerts and evidence of malicious use or anomalous activity  ? Operate and maintain security toolsets ( Security Onion, Solarwinds LEM, Splunk) to monitor/collect system status and create daily reports  ? Develop phishing campaigns and administer end user security awareness training  ? Identify and assess malicious activities by analyzing packet captures in Wireshark  ? Use MySonicWall to monitor/manage client firewalls, firewall rules and produce reports  ? Perform data backups-in cloud (Azure, Vault Logix, Jungle Disk) and on premise (Backup Exec, Barracuda)  ? Patch management of servers and desktops- manual hardening and through Group Policy/Microsoft Intune  ? Examine Snort based IDS events to investigate and prioritize alerts  ? Perform incident response activities such as host triage and retrieval, system analysis, and remediation  ? Assess security incidents and verify anomalies using open source and commercial security tools  ? Research the nature of the threats and communicate information concerning the threats to a diverse audience  ? Interact with System Engineers and System Consultants to understand operating requirements, make regular contact with clients and implement solutions  ? Create and modify Standard Operating Procedures documents Junior Network Administrator Smithsonian Institution - Herndon, VA February 2016 to November 2016 Manage servers and clusters-configure Microsoft Server 2012, 2016  ? Test, deploy, maintain, and administer infrastructure hardware and software  ? Manage Microsoft Office 365 accounts, tenants, and client licensing  ? Create, disable, and maintain user accounts and unit containers in Active Directory, manage account permissions and Organizational Unit structures  ? Assist building and managing virtual machine and servers  ? Collaborate with Security team to develop innovative strategies for detecting, monitoring, and preventing malicious activity  ? Set up resource accounts, distribution lists and administer proper permissions to users  ? Monitor and troubleshoot network issues and security incidences  ? Install and configure Windows 10; install, configure and troubleshoot Microsoft Office  ? Set up, configure, and support internal and external networks  ? Use System Configuration Center Management (SCCM) for regulation of security permissions and deployments  ? Maintain filters to reduce spam emails and phishing attempts IT Analyst Modern Aesthetics - Mount Vernon, VA June 2015 to February 2016 Administer Group Policy- create, manage, and deploy in Group Policy Management  ? Assist System Administrator with maintaining Windows Domain/Domain Controllers, installing and configuring Windows Server 2012, managing server roles and shares, joining workstations to domains  ? Handle and resolve escalating tickets using the Remedy ticketing system  ? Maintain Active Directory for the specific needs of the enterprise environment by establishing user accounts, network security, troubleshooting printer issues, back up devices, and installing and maintaining the Symantec Anti-Virus server.  ? Provide support for the installation, configuration, troubleshooting, and maintenance of PC hardware and software  ? Provide end user support to company's internal and external employees on issues such as peripheral configurations, desktop/laptop/Mobile device configurations  ? Diagnose technical problems and determine appropriate action  ? Provide maintenance of desktop and laptop computers, servers, mobile devices, printers, and peripheral equipment Education B.S. in Information Systems Management University of Maryland University College August 2015 to December 2017 A.S in Science Northern Virginia Community College August 2012 to May 2015 Certifications/Licenses CEH Security+