IT Branch Operations - Business Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> Branch Operations - Business <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Branch Operations - Business Analyst - Hussmann Dardenne Prairie, MO Experienced IT Business Analyst and loyal Toyota owner to work closely with Seeger Toyota’s customer base to address their needs in a polite, motivated, and efficient manner. Former Application Access Administrator and IT Business Analyst with a strong understanding of IT hardware and critical business applications. Seeking Internet Sales Consultant position to utilize my previous training and education while allowing me to branch out and work a position that I'm extremely passionate about. I believe that my vast and growing car knowledge and IT expertise currently administrating an E-commerce platform fits this job description perfectly. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Branch Operations - Business Analyst Hussmann April 2016 to Present Actively administrate Hussmann E-Store e-commerce platform. Administrate inContact IVR and Fuze VOIP contact center applications. Successfully implemented JP Morgan/Chase Paymentech credit processing system. Successfully implements Hussmann TechConnect content management application. Perform general Business Analyst duties such as planning and monitoring, requirements gathering and analysis, and general IT troubleshooting and problem solving. Hussmann January 2016 to April 2016 IT Professional  • CRM Integration  ? Participated in CRM Integration meetings.  ? Assisted project manager and business analysts regarding CRM Integration process and project flow.  ? Organized meetings with Hitachi Solutions.  ? Helped to create Contact Center current and future state workflow diagrams.  • Alliance  ? Trained with Alliance Support team and manned the Technical Support line.  ? Assisted branch managers with onboarding and ticket creation process.  ? Investigated issues with BSS (Financial System) request form.  ? ~~~~~~~~~ to provision new user access.  • Performance Parts E-Store  ? Participated in Hussmann Performance Parts E-Store meetings.  ? Assisted Oracle project manager with addressing key issues for development team.  ? Met regularly with vendor, Systems Online, to coordinate new development push to the live site.  • Created workflow diagram for onboarding process.  • ~~~~~~~~~ supporting User Provisioning Team with acquired skills and training. System/Application Security Analyst - Intern Hussmann March 2015 to December 2015 • Team member for Hussmann User Provisioning; responsible for security access control for 4,500+ employees, contractors and vendors.  • Process and track new employee, temporary employee and contract employee access requests, access change and termination requests.  • Assisted in transitioning applications from the business to IT during separation from parent company.  • Assisted in the execution of annual access review. AAR requires all managers to review business system access for their regular, temporary, and contract employees.  • Create documentation for new and current processes.  • Assist in tracking and monitoring licenses for applications to ensure we are compliant.  • Work with Internal/External Audit to fulfill access authorization and/or other access reporting requests.  • Provide timely troubleshooting and resolution for end users  • Create Active Directory accounts, security groups, and distribution lists Education Associates of Arts in VOLUNTEER St Charles Community College 2015 Skills Active Directory, HTML, testing, access, training, Microsoft Office, Sharepoint, SQL