Sr. IT Recruiter Contractor, SAP Implementation Sr. <span class="hl">IT</span> Recruiter Contractor, SAP Implementation Sr. IT Recruiter Contractor, SAP Implementation Work Experience Sr. IT Recruiter Contractor, SAP Implementation Talent Acquisition/Staffing June 2007 to June 2009 Full Cycle IT recruiting  Recruited for: Sourcing and hiring over 200 SAP Configurations / Developers for the following modules, BI, BW, MM, PP, IP and Security. Implementation / Deployment: Internally sourced deployment team members, coordinate roll off dates with new deployment schedules. Sr. IT Recruiter Contractor, Information Infrastructure and Information Security Allstate Insurance June 2006 to June 2007 Full Cycle IT recruiting for Northbrook, Ohio and Texas  Recruited for: SAP Developers and Security Administrator, UNIX Developers and Administrator, Oracle Developers and Administrator, Web Sphere and .Net Developers, J2EE Developers, Network Analyst and Network Support Levels I, II, III, Forensic IT Analyst, Vulnerability Risk Analyst, Disaster Recovery Managers and Analyst. Sr. IT Recruiter Contractor/Human Resources Generalist Deloitte & Touché Global May 2002 to May 2003 Full Cycle IT recruiting for Northbrook, United Kingdom and South Africa  Recruited for: Platform Architects, C++ Developers, .Net Developers, Java Developers, Portal Developers, Network and Server Architects, Engineers and Administrator, Oracle Developers and Administrator, Systems Analysts, Content Managers and Developers Contract IT Recruiter/ HR Analyst The College of American Pathologist August 2001 to February 2002 IT Recruiter Deloitte & Touché Tax Technologies December 2000 to August 2001 Software: Microsoft Office, Word, PowerPoint, Excel, Outlook Express, Outlook, Applicant Tracking Software (ATS) - Taleo, and Resumix,  LinkedIn, GlassDoor, Monster, indeed, CRM Education Northwestern University SPS Present De Paul University 1992 to 1995 Skills Staffing, Hr, Coaching, Recruiting Additional Information IT Recruiter/Human Resources Senior Contract Technical Recruiter / Full Life Cycle with over 10 years of experience in Staffing / Human Resources in Consumer, Insurance, and Management Consulting industries.    Expertise  ? Full cycle IT and experienced hiring recruiting.  ? Function as point of contact for business leaders, HR, and other stakeholders.  ? Collaborate with Senior Mangers to establish staffing needs and skill set requirements.  ? Review internal candidates for skill set and professional development opportunities.  ? Communicate with Senior Mangers to seamlessly transition internal candidates.  ? Establish agile principles to forecast backlog and fulfill hiring.  ? Planning and coaching managers on what they need in the scope of hiring.  ? Develop and research sourcing and recruiting strategies.  ? Scouring and screen candidates for required skill set.  ? Manage, track and review all incoming resumes and inquiries regarding open positions.  ? Facilitate candidate review meetings.  ? Process candidate reference checks.  ? Negotiate and execute candidate offers.  ? Act as point of contact for outsource agencies and contractors.  ? Coordinate and execute on boarding process.  ? Maintain staffing systems or ATS.