Senior Risk Analyst (Third-Party Risk Management) Senior Risk <span class="hl">Analyst</span> (Third-Party Risk Management) Senior Risk Analyst (Third-Party Risk Management) - USAA Pearland, TX Work Experience Senior Risk Analyst (Third-Party Risk Management) USAA - Houston, TX June 2019 to Present Strategic Staff Solutions)  • Short-term project, but impactful opportunity, hired to collaborate with PWC to assist with the transition of newly enforced compliance processes and the kick-off of a new automated system to track and process Risk Management activities.  • Provides risk management support for a line of business or staff agency in key risk identification, measurement and aggregation, and the understanding and management of risk through appropriate practices and processes.  • Assesses and mitigates enterprise and business exposures through the identification of key and emerging risks and evaluates alignment with risk strategy and appetite.  • Monitors the risk and control environment to ensure that exposures are kept at acceptable levels and may consult on risk mitigation plans. Supply & Trading Information Risk Management Coordinator Chevron - Houston, TX December 2018 to June 2019 Agency: Rose International Inc)  • Appointed to re-brand and enforce the Supply and Trading IRM team's image and approach towards improving compliance completion rates through increased front-facing engagement with the business.  • Employ necessary measures to identify, assess, mitigate, manage, monitor and report information security risks and protect information assets of one of the world's leading multinational suppliers of global energy resources.  • Act as a liaison and point of escalation, establishes relationships, and advises departments to increase the value realized from IT assets, investments, and capabilities.  • Mentor and coach business units on the importance of our IT Governance program and provide support  • Oversee the creation, management, and development of information security standards, procedures, and guidelines in line with the organization's Information Risk Management Policy utilizing (RSA) Archer GRC and NIST Controls.  • Manage organization-wide projects focused on IT Security, infrastructure and documentation.  • Collaborate with delegates to assign projects that will produce reports and visuals for presentation. Security & Controls Analyst ExxonMobil - Houston, TX December 2017 to December 2018 Agency: BravoTech)  • Assigned to assist transition the XTO Energy's IT Risk Compliance activities under the ExxonMobil umbrella after major acquisition.  • Coordinated time sensitive Security & Controls related efforts & communications with the business for conducting application access reviews and providing consultation with remediation of audit findings.  • Create/revise risk assessments, modify controls, and perform consistent monitoring to ensure compliance.  • Conduct interviews with business application owners to prepare for the IT segments of an internal and/or external audit.  • Confirm that the validating documentation is in-tact and that previous audit findings continue to be closed in addition to ensuring that risk assessments and controls have proper ownership, etc.  • Liaison with all levels of the business (executive management to working contacts). IT Risk Analyst Lockton Companies - Houston, TX September 2013 to June 2016 • Selected to analyze, plan, and optimize internal controls to minimize risks and exposures for the organization's premier client, a leading engineering, procurement, and construction (EPC) services firm (Quanta Services) while leading continuous technical ( IT) and business operations.  • Acknowledged for resolving the Client's Critical RMIS System Vacancy and Staffing Shortage on short notice during their abrupt departure of the previous IT Analyst.  • Successfully sourced and secured a third party RMIS provider, solely managed the system/application in-house, met worker's compensation insurance compliance guidelines, conducted training, and facilitated a seamless flow of claims information (HIPAA) through conference calls with internal and external stakeholders.  • Identified and resolved roadblocks and optimized IT processes while managing the client service level agreements (SLA) and outstanding tickets.  • Managed, produced, and analyzed daily data reports that communicated system failures, identified and resolved conflicted information, prevented delays in claims, and ensured proper access in government pass controls.  • Led IT Training/Support for End Users on Application Use.  • Facilitated and guided the transition to the web-based system which housed data, submitted claims, and fostered communication between the organization and third-party companies.  • Mitigated financial and legal risks by following organizational best practices, evaluated SAP data, government mandates, and industry guidelines while performing business operational and technical activities. Security IT Logical Access Administrator Shell Trading - Houston, TX June 2012 to September 2013 Agency: ICON Consultants)  • In charge of administrating activation and authorization activities for 6000+ global users across 30 enterprise databases and web applications for Shell Trading and SOX applications.  • Granted and revoked user access utilizing Active Directory networks and database systems, generated reports for proper access using governed pass controls, identified users for additions and removals, and disseminated data to internal/external audit teams, including big four companies.  • Several SAP platforms utilized, granting access, revoking access, modifying financials and extracting data.  • Served on the London IT Admin Management Team Project tasked with automating the auditing process via SharePoint combined with leading testing operations for 9 months and evaluating accuracy/efficiency levels prior to launch.  • Led the training and mentoring of staff members on technical/software applications, industry protocols, and compliance.  • Recognized for simplifying and automating security structures for the logical access administration team and application owners by establishing an IT security program continuous process improvement via SharePoint.  • Effectively communicated time-sensitive and strategic solutions with technical staff, trade floor employees, and management to effectively resolve issues and foster a collaborative working environment. Associate New Business Underwriter The Hartford - San Antonio, TX 2011 to 2012 • Orchestrated timely executions and detailed reviews/research of general liability, workers' compensation, and auto policy submissions for small new business commercial lines.  • Analyzed insurance proposals, actuarial information, and business statistics to compute and calculate premiums.  • Minimized exposures to risks and liabilities by maintaining full regulatory compliance with industry and organizational guidelines while completing all operations, including preparing and distributing new business submissions. Risk Operations Analyst II J.P. Morgan Chase & CO - San Antonio, TX 2009 to 2011 • Investigated, reviewed, and finalized decisions on fraudulent claims while maintaining compliance with all government guidelines, company protocols, and privacy laws.  • Elected as the Subject Matter Expert (SME) to Mentor New Staff.  • Awarded for providing superior service as the First Risk Analyst Promoted to Risk Analyst II (2010).  • Consistently maintained a 95% + quality score on claims and improved overall scorecard ratings by effectively managing simultaneous projects, coaching new hires, and creating job aides and tracking charts. Education BBA in MARKETING UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS AT SAN ANTONIO - San Antonio, TX December 2008 Skills Active Directory, security, access