Technology Compliance Controls Analyst Technology Compliance Controls <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Technology Compliance Controls Analyst - Access Sciences Work Experience Technology Compliance Controls Analyst Access Sciences - New York, NY July 2019 to Present Conduct cybersecurity compliance audits for multibillion-dollar, multinational investment bank blockchain project  ? Support the development of client standard technical and organizational measures, and related controls  ? Act as a communications liaison and coordinate efforts between IT, Legal, Risk and other business functions  ? Assist with policy development, control specifications, and training and awareness initiatives IT Security Consultant Law Offices of Richard Washington - New York, NY August 2015 to Present Identify and implement best technology and security solutions for law firm devices  ? Administer third party security tools to ensure organization network and endpoints are properly protected  ? Responds to service issues, problems, and critical situations to support resolution  ? Monitor threat alerts and investigate cybersecurity incidents, troubleshoot, resolve and track end-user issues  ? Organize training for users and other consultants to ensure NIST best practices are followed  ? Keep lawyers up to date on the latest threats in industry Content Coordinator/ Reporter SC Magazine - New York, NY March 2015 to August 2019 Monitor and analyze the latest malware, data breaches, and digital privacy policies to keep IT professionals informed  ? Write daily short and long form cybersecurity and technical reports and updates concerning the latest threats  ? Investigate cybersecurity incidents, inform the public of zero-day exploits and attack methods  ? Deliver metrix to assist in the development of security and user policies Social Media Coordinator Airbnb NYC Campaign - New York, NY July 2014 to February 2015 Managed, created, coordinated and writer online content for campaign media channels to influence public policy  ? Develop strategies to gain support of community leaders to help promote brand  ? Managed and improved growth of social media followings by over 30% across all channels Data Analyst - Jr. Domain Expert Dataminr - New York, NY October 2013 to June 2014 Conducted analysis of how major events were covered on Twitter for prospective clients  ? Improve and develop data mining algorithms to alert clients to relevant, industry specific breaking news  ? Remote supervision of international staff to ensure quality of product Education Master of Computer Science in Computer Science Pace University - New York, NY December 2018 Bachelor of Journalism in Journalism University of Missouri - Columbia, MO May 2013 Skills Metasploit, Splunk, Wireshark, Css, Mysql Links http://linkedin.com/in/robertjaabel