IT Business/Compliance Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> Business/Compliance <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Business/Compliance Analyst San Antonio, TX Solutions-driven analyst and project manager with over 20+ years of experience leading cross-functional teams and projects in the Information Technology, Marketing Services, and Government sectors. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Business/Compliance Analyst Harland Clarke - San Antonio, TX May 2017 to July 2019 • Project lead for PCI DSS compliance.  • Proactively collaborated with network engineers, system administrators, and business leaders on implementation of information security protocols and practical controls framework for regulatory  requirements and compliance.  • Served as liaison between IT Executive and HCH business units; utilized enterprise Technology  Business Management (TBM) system inputs, Knowledge Management (KM) sources, and insight from industry, to develop and design strategic presentations for high-level executives.  • Actively facilitated meetings to elicit, document, and communicate requirements, tracked important milestones/actions, and created artifacts.  • Led post M&A integration migration project; Migrated 253 personnel email and AD accounts from acquired company to enterprise data centers.  • Led the deployment of Resource Management module in ServiceNow for the enterprise IT organization.  • Trained over 70 managers on creating, requesting, and assigning people to specific tasks/projects;  enabled executives to visualize staff availability, allocations, and forecast allocations.  • Awarded Core Value award for employee engagement; awarded to only 10% of associates that are nominated. Cyber Security Intern/Business Operations Analyst Rackspace - San Antonio, TX January 2017 to May 2017 • Determined the typical DDoS attack vectors and applied countermeasures to prevent network  degradation and minimizing business risk.  • Extracted data from multiple sources, analyzed reports, and presented KPI performance.  • Performed complex analyses of business goals and objectives.  • Planned, designed business processes, and made recommendations for changes in order to improve and support business activities.  • Utilized systems and data to perform statistical evaluation of SLA compliance for multi-million dollar customer.  • Identified and improved a process weakness that prevented 48% of qualified customers of DDoS  products from being contacted and closed.  • Analyzed records and identified 10% of contracts were not being charged; coordinated with finance, implementation and Account Managers to correct issues and recover $60,000. Director, Implementation/Training/Customer Success Parlevel Systems, Inc - San Antonio, TX July 2014 to March 2016 • Strategically planned the division requirements for a start-up company.  • Prepared annual fiscal requirements for the department and maintained strict financial control of $1M budget.  • Increased POS hardware installations by over 200% in a year without increasing budget constraints.  • Trained over 60 small business owners to optimize route efficiencies; decreased operational costs by properly utilizing software solutions.  • Managed an array of over 100 customer accounts; developed best business practices to minimize churn rate.  • Measured KPIs and reported trends to executive staff.  • Identified staff shortages; recruited, interviewed, and selected the best-qualified applicants.  • Planned and managed all projects; produced high-quality deliverables that met and exceeded timeline and budgetary targets.  • Designed customer training curriculum and manuals that achieved increased awareness with software features. Future Operations Planner US Army South - Fort Sam Houston, TX May 2013 to August 2014 • Synchronized organizational procedures and protocols with new strategic guidance from CEO.  • Analyzed, restructured, and improved processes to maximize efficiency in Army South staff.  • Facilitated working group meetings to define emerging requirements for critical missions.  • Prepared monthly and quarterly presentations for the CEO.  • Planned and assembled task details from cross-functional staff sections to finalize and publish  operation orders.  • Created a standardization program that implemented the organization's battle rhythm; synchronized  team, which eliminated redundant staff meetings saving man-hours.  • Assisted with planning efforts for high visibility exercises; identified Partner Nation requirements and capabilities. HQ Systems Officer in Charge ( IT Manager) US Army, Special Operations Command Central - Doha, QA April 2012 to May 2013 Qatar  • Led an IT department of 30 personnel and operated two data centers that housed over $22M in communication equipment.  • Supervised a help desk department that provided first-class support to over 1600 geographically  dispersed customers with minimal downtime; publicly lauded by the Chief of Staff.  • Coordinated security updates for data centers and all computers systems.  • Engaged in disaster recovery planning for all contingency issues.  • Refined IT processes for the forward deployed headquarters.  • Analyzed procedures, reestablished proper accountability and inventory processes which recovered tens of thousands of dollars' worth of unaccounted property.  • Managed $600K IT lifecycle project to replace over 400 computers, servers; improved  security and user experience finishing ahead of designated schedule. Education Master of Arts in Information Technology Management Webster University - St. Louis, MO Bachelors of Science in Social Science Upper Iowa University - Fayette, IA Skills Microsoft Office, Data Analysis, Tableau, Project Management, Business Analysis Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: MAJ