IT Knowledge Specialist (ServiceNow Administrator, Technical Writer & Editor, & COE Manager) <span class="hl">IT</span> Knowledge Specialist (ServiceNow Administrator, Technical Writer &amp; Editor, &amp; COE Manager) IT Knowledge Specialist (ServiceNow Administrator, Technical Writer & Editor, & COE Manager) - Western Governors University Holladay, UT * A diversely skilled IT professional with 7 years of industry experience positively influencing the delivery of IT services through work in knowledge base administration, root-cause analysis, technical writing and editing, web development, business process analysis, quality assurance, IT training, and desktop support.  * A dedicated student of cybersecurity and holder of 6 cybersecurity certifications with a demonstrated commitment to furthering technical proficiency to improve business outcomes.  * An adept and meticulous analyst with a strong background in both qualitative and quantitative research methodologies and a history of using them to uncover issues, report trends, and increase business process efficiency.  * An effective verbal and written communicator with years of experience conveying complex ideas to technical and non-technical audiences in language they can understand.  * Specifically interested in applying wide-ranging knowledge, skills, and expertise to maintain the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of your data. Work Experience IT Knowledge Specialist (ServiceNow Administrator, Technical Writer & Editor, & COE Manager) Western Governors University - Salt Lake City, UT 2017 to Present Salt Lake City, UT 2017 - Present  IT Knowledge Specialist (ServiceNow Administrator, Technical Writer & Editor, & COE Manager)  Manage tools, processes, and content for multiple knowledge bases and knowledge base platforms, including ServiceNow, Salesforce, Lithium, and Igloo. Perform identity and access management (IAM) for ServiceNow knowledge bases. Research a myriad of technical products, procedures, policies, and issues. Based on that research, author, edit, curate, and tailor knowledge base articles for individual departments, 5k+ faculty and staff, and 100k+ students. Collaborate with subject matter experts to audit content for accuracy and relevancy. Produce, log, and report metrics to proactively identify and correct deficiencies in resources. Promote Knowledge Centered Service (KCS) and ITIL best practices to cultivate a knowledge-sharing culture throughout the institution and to integrate shared knowledge into the incident and problem management processes. Assist other departments with designing, creating, and maintaining their knowledge bases. Author blog posts for the university-wide intranet detailing changes in IT policies. Author all-staff communication from the IT department.  * Author of numerous IT security articles and hundreds of other IT knowledge articles for every conceivable audience throughout the university.  * Manager of the correction of errors (COE) process - the IT department's means of analyzing and correcting the root causes of errors affecting university staff and students.  * Product owner of the IT department's categorization scheme for incident and problem management and principal author of the hundreds of articles detailing troubleshooting steps and escalation paths for those categories.  * Co-designer and developer of "WGU Service Portal" - the front-end for IT service delivery and all ServiceNow knowledge bases for the university. IT Quality Assurance Analyst & Service Desk Trainer Western Governors University - Salt Lake City, UT 2017 to 2017 Worked with project teams, subject matter experts, and IT leadership to formulate, implement, and analyze policies and procedures to improve the delivery of IT services for faculty, staff, and students. Analyzed individual IT service desk technician's client interactions, troubleshooting methods, and support tickets; identified areas for improvement, created personalized development plans, coached them according to ITIL best practices and department policies and procedures, and reported their progress to IT leadership. Evaluated and recommended software and software configurations for use in IT service delivery. Developed new-hire training materials and trained new service desk technicians. Authored, edited, and audited IT knowledge articles for the IT department, faculty and staff, and the university student body.  * Co-authored new quality assurance rubric for the IT service desk, which aligned with broader university leadership principles, to objectively measure and grade technician performance during client interactions and on ticketing documentation. Assisted fellow quality assurance specialists with implementing the new QA rubric in their one-on-one coaching sessions with service desk technicians.  * Worked on a cross-functional team to streamline the new-hire onboarding process, which resulted in the creation of the New Hire Team. IT Service Desk Technician Western Governors University - Salt Lake City, UT 2015 to 2017 Directly supported remote and local users contacting the IT service desk for assistance with service requests and IT-related incidents following ITIL best practices and service delivery procedures. Maintained ownership of incidents in ServiceNow, ensuring timely entry, updating, and closure of all tickets and resolution of all issues. Ensured incidents and service requests were escalated correctly and assigned to appropriate support groups. Assisted faculty, staff, and students to troubleshoot a wide variety of technical issues (e.g., account administration, network troubleshooting, desktop support, VOIP phone troubleshooting, malware removal, etc.).  * Received October 2015 customer service award for exemplary service.  * Helped pioneer the IT service desk chat team's workflows and standards. IT Desktop Support Technician Lime Help, LLC - Sandy, UT 2012 to 2013 Remotely-assisted clients with various IT issues (e.g., configuring email, troubleshooting common OS issues, providing user support for Microsoft Office Suite, and removing malware). Research/Teaching Assistant Utah State University - Department of Political Science - Logan, UT 2009 to 2010 Researched contemporary political theories, assisted the professor with conducting qualitative studies and with authoring peer-reviewed articles. Counseled undergraduate students on coursework. Administered quizzes and exams to students. Graded quizzes, term papers, and exams. Research Assistant Brigham Young University - Provo, UT 2008 to 2008 Collaborated with professors and other research assistants on a research partnership between the Institute for Theory and Practice of International Relations at the College of William and Mary, and the Political Economy and Development Lab at BYU to build AidData.org: a dataset to provide the global development community with more granular and comprehensive data on foreign assistance projects worldwide. Aggregated and organized data on multilateral and bilateral foreign development aid and inputted that data into the dataset. Quantitatively researched topics, wrote articles, and led discussions on foreign development aid's influence on human rights, government corruption, and domestic and international terrorism. Teaching Assistant, National Security Affairs Brigham Young University - Department of Political Science - Provo, UT 2007 to 2007 Assisted professor with teaching National Security Affairs to 150+ students. Led class lectures, review sessions, and group discussions. Counseled students individually and collectively on course assignments. Approved term paper topics. Administered and graded students' exams. Supervisor, Data Entry Affiliated Computer Services - Lexington, KY 2000 to 2002 Lexington, KY 2000 - 2002  A company that provided information technology services as well as business process outsourcing solutions to businesses, government agencies, and non-profit organizations  Supervisor, Data Entry  Supervised a team of 12 tasked with digitizing Aetna medical and dental insurance claims and x-rays. Oversaw quality assurance and control aspects of records digitization. Trained new employees. Monitored the corporate network and reported incidents to the network team. Education Bachelor's in Cybersecurity & Information Assurance Western Governors University - Salt Lake City, UT May 2017 to Present Master of Science in Political Science Utah State University - Logan, UT Bachelor of Arts in Political Science Brigham Young University - Provo, UT Skills Encryption, Itil, Network security, Security, Web services, Jira, Html5, Amazon web services, Javascript, Root-cause analysis, Salesforce.com, Technical support, Best practices, Business process improvement, Risk management, Quality assurance, Mentoring, Training, Customer service, It training, Microsoft Office, Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel, Cyber Security, Information Security, Nist, Linux, Nist, Cyber Security, Linux, It Security, Comptia, Information Security, Siem Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ (ISC)2 Systems Security Certified Practitioner (SSCP) EC-Council Certified Encryption Specialist (ECES) EC-Council Certified Incident Handler (ECIH) CIW Web Security Professional (WSP) CompTIA Secure Infrastructure Specialist (CSIS) CompTIA IT Operations Specialist (CIOS) AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner (CCP) A valid IT Specialist certification AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner (CCP) CompTIA Network+ CompTIA A+ CompTIA Project+ CIW Site Development Associate (SDA) ITILv3 Foundation Certified ScrumMaster (CSM) Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE    * IT Security Governance & Regulatory Compliance (GRC)  * Identity & Access Management (IAM)  * Network Security  * Digital Forensics  * Encryption Technologies  * Risk Management  * Incident Management, Handling, & Response  * Cloud Security & Amazon Web Services (AWS)  * IT Security Awareness  * Technical Writing & Editing  * ITIL Best Practices  * Agile & Scrum Methodologies  * Qualitative & Qualitative Research, Analysis, & Reporting  * Policy Analysis  * Root-cause Analysis  * ServiceNow & Lithium Knowledge Base Administration  * Atlassian Confluence & Jira  * Knowledge Centered Service (KCS)  * Web Development (HTML5, CSS3, & JavaScript)  * IT Technical Support  * IT Training & Mentoring  * Business Process Improvement  * Business Relations  * Project Management  * Quality Assurance  * Salesforce.com  * Customer Service  * Spanish & Portuguese