Aircraft Carrier Cyber Program Analyst Aircraft Carrier Cyber Program <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Cleared Cybersecurity Professional New Market, MD Clearance: Active DoD Top Secret    Industry professional with experience analyzing the physical and logical security of information systems. Experienced with meeting information security compliance requirements related to federal and state regulations and standards such as FERPA, NIST 800-53, and NIST 800-171. Authored multiple organizational information security standards and guidelines designed to inform and enforce secure computing practices and awareness. Served as an information security subject matter expert for multiple work groups and service committees. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Aircraft Carrier Cyber Program Analyst CACI Federal - Washington, DC March 2019 to Present Supports the United States Navy’s Program Executive Office (PEO) Aircraft Carriers by spearheading the identification and management of shortfalls and status in all matters pertaining to CVN cybersecurity awareness, incident response, and configuration management/control across all shipboard control systems. Provides leadership, critical thinking, and project management of all efforts that support the U.S. Navy’s Aircraft Carriers Network Cybersecurity Working Group (CNCWG) in developing and guiding cybersecurity wholeness as well as interpreting cybersecurity policies, procedures, and guidelines for control systems installed on CVN 68/78 Class Aircraft Carriers. Cyber Security Specialist Enlightened, Inc - Washington, DC April 2018 to March 2019 Provided cybersecurity subject matter expertise in areas of IT compliance, higher education, critical infrastructure, and government. Performed internal cybersecurity compliance assessments using NIST 800-171. Supported the development of Enlightened’s commercial services. Developed cybersecurity assessment training curriculum to be utilized by Howard University in support of their career development program. Conducted cyber security awareness training for newly hired employees. Participated in continual awareness activities for all Enlightened employees. IT Coordinator UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND - College Park, MD June 2015 to April 2018 One of three staff members charged with building the university’s IT Compliance program from the ground up in response to the 2014 data breach. Worked closely with university departments to verify the compliance of organizational IT security controls with federal and state regulations and standards, such as NIST 800-171, through hands-on security assessments and by assisting before, during, and after external audits. Provided subject matter expertise during working groups and authored multiple security guidelines and whitepapers. Security Consultant NETWORK & SECURITY TECHNOLOGIES, INC - Pearl River, NY November 2013 to April 2014 Provided full-scope security assessment and compliance audit preparation services to national bulk electric providers. Security assessments utilized the National Electric Reliability Corporation’s (NERC) Critical Infrastructure Protection (CIP) Standards to evaluate an organization’s security posture in the areas of physical, personnel, and information security. Additionally, information security was fully tested by employing accepted penetration testing and social engineering tactics such as network packet capture, password cracking, network host enumeration, and distribution of simulated malicious portable storage devices. Junior Security Specialist VariQ - Rockville, MD August 2013 to November 2013 Responsible for assisting primary assessors and team managers with the evaluation and auditing processes for designated Internal Revenue Service information systems. Reviewed and updated system security documentation to ensure all documentation reflected most current security requirements as defined by NIST 800-53. Worked closely with contacts within the Internal Revenue Service to collect evidence to determine whether information systems met federal security requirements as part of annual continuous monitoring activities. Control Systems Specialist Savage Stone, LLC - Jessup, MD June 2010 to August 2013 Operated SCADA system that controlled facility operations of aggregate stone crushing plant. Monitored system and equipment performance to maximize plant production. Conducted troubleshooting of system and equipment problems to resolve issues quickly and safely. Made repairs to equipment when needed. Worked closely with outside contractors when higher level of help was needed to fix system issues. Coordinated with ground personnel and management to ensure systems were running properly and plant was producing the desired crushed stone aggregate materials. Education Master of Science in Digital Forensics and Cyber Investigations UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND UNIVERSITY COLLEGE - Largo, MD August 2016 to Present Bachelor of Science in Cybersecurity UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND UNIVERSITY COLLEGE - Largo, MD May 2013 Skills Compliance Assessments (5 years), Information Security (5 years), Network Security (5 years), Project Planning (5 years), Regulatory Compliance (5 years), Standards Compliance (5 years), Penetration Testing (Less than 1 year), Application Security Testing (2 years), Digital Forensics (2 years), Customer Service (10+ years), Cyber Security (5 years), NIST Compliance (5 years), CISSP (4 years), CompTIA Security+ (4 years), GIAC System and Network Auditor (GSNA) (4 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/jeffrey-lillibridge/ Certifications/Licenses CISSP February 2015 to Present Cybersecurity certification that covers all that it takes to design, engineer, implement, and run an information security program. Security+ April 2015 to Present A foundational cybersecurity certification that covers the essential skills and best practices for cybersecurity practioners. Some of the primary topics covered by this certification include network security and risk management. GIAC Systems and Network Auditor (GSNA) October 2015 to Present This certification covers the essentials needed to conduct formal system security audits and risk analyses. Topics ranged from auditing and assessing Windows, Mac, and Linux systems to the skills needed to complete full risk analyses and compliance assessments.