IT SECURITY ANALYST <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">SECURITY</span> <span class="hl">ANALYST</span> IT SECURITY ANALYST Troy, MI Self-motivated information security specialist with experience across multiple   IT domains – providing a systematic approach to proactively address security concerns and remediate vulnerabilities while balancing cost and convenience.   Demonstrated strong attention to detail, time management, resourcefulness, flexibility, dedication, and initiative in two rapidly expanding enterprises. Work Experience IT SECURITY ANALYST Lee Industrial Contracting - Pontiac, MI October 2018 to July 2019 Developed vulnerability management program, tuned Nessus Pro scanner to efficiently identify critical weaknesses in server and network infrastructure, recommended corrective measures, and ensured policy alignment with the CIS 20 Critical Security Controls and GM TPISR. Trained over 200 email users via security awareness program and phish simulation testing. Monitored NetFlow traffic logs via FortiAnalyzer for threats and anomalies. Reviewed Azure AD audit logs for suspicious activity and group privilege inconsistencies. Reinforced application whitelist through testing of all requested software via Wireshark. IT HELP DESK TECHNICIAN Lee Industrial Contracting - Pontiac, MI March 2017 to October 2018 Directed onboarding, offboarding, and general account provisioning via Active Directory, ACS Brivo, Genetec Security Desk, Gasboy, ACTAtek Access Control, Duo MFA, and IBM MaaS360. Managed setup, deployment, maintenance, and retrieval of tablets, laptops, and smartphones for over 350 employees. Improved monthly average ticket turn-around time from 3.5 days to 0.4 day. Software QA Analyst Pratt & Miller Engineering - New Hudson, MI January 2013 to May 2015 Worked closely with developers in MI and NC on in-house vehicle engineering system testing. Created and executed regression test cases and reported progress status concisely. Helped team to identify and reproduce unexpected behavior. Documented defects and followed through on build change requests. IT Help Desk Technician Pratt & Miller Engineering - New Hudson, MI October 2010 to December 2012 Resolved trouble ticket issues and documented case notes within ALEXsys Help Desk ticket system. Installed and configured office, design, and engineering applications on laptops and workstations. Scheduled appointments with repair technicians and managed equipment shipping. Education 107 credits - Bachelor of Computer Science Degree in Computer Science Kettering University - Flint, MI 2010 to 2015 Six Courses at Higher Level - IBDP International Academy - Bloomfield Hills, MI 2006 to 2010 Skills Active Directory, Security, testing, Cisco, training Links http://linkedin.com/in/msetera Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Network+ January 2019 to March 2022 CompTIA Security+ March 2019 to March 2022