Information Security Analyst Information <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Information Security Analyst Ocala, FL It is my goal to improve the efficiency and security of a progressive company with outstanding culture and  values by utilizing and building on my skills and experience in Information Systems, Cybersecurity,  management, and public & customer service. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Information Security Analyst Mercy Medical Center - Baltimore, MD May 2018 to June 2019 Detected and remediated active security threats and known vulnerabilities in a production  environment to protect over 4,000 users and 10,000 network devices in the healthcare industry from Malware, Ransomware, and other cyber-attacks.    •Cisco AMP & Umbrella Security •Epic EHR •Barracuda & Zix Email Security  •ManageEngine Service Desk •LogRhythm Log Analysis •Solarwinds netflow analysis  •Active Directory Administration •Tenable Vulnerability Scan •Microsoft SQL Studio Account Manager / CSM eResources - Alexandria, VA September 2015 to September 2017 Provided technical account management for 150 clients from around the U.S., assessing their  environments quarterly for security vulnerabilities, upgrade opportunities, projects/installs, and technical support. Streamlined the available service offerings from 12 service plans to a single, all-  inclusive plan and migrated all accounts. Attended networking functions and bid on contracts, winning  $1M and sustaining over $2M in annual revenue.    •Client retention & management •Contracts/RFP's •Disaster Recovery Mgmt.  •Escalation & remediation of issues •CRM and RMM mgmt. •Quarterly client reviews  • Security & Vulnerability auditing •New Product Demos •Hiring & Networking Technical Assistance Associate II Peak - Atlanta, GA July 2014 to September 2015 Provided on-site support for network engineers, connected a client's colocation environment to a network circuit, and supported a 99.9% uptime for all network, cooling systems, and power  infrastructure at the busiest datacenter in the company (Atlanta). Set up the network operations center at a newer Tampa, FL location installed cabinets, connections, and servers in the datacenter.  •Monitoring NOC Operations •Backup/recovery/cloud •Network cabling  •Remote Datacenter assistance •Cabinet Documentation •Network Hardware Config. I.T. Service Technician National Repair Center - Dunnellon, FL July 2010 to July 2014 Provided internal sales, client support, and analysis for key accounts as well as remote and on-site  technical support. With the addition of my position, National Repair Center was able to grow their  business by having a dedicated person gaining and retaining clients as well as offering more services in their target market.  •Key Account Reviews •Technical Support •Analysis / Development / Testing  •Forensic Analysis •Client Retention Surveys •Home / Business Networking  •Support Contracts •Disaster Recovery planning • Backup / Disaster Recovery / Imaging Education Bachelor's in Information Systems College of Central Florida - Ocala, FL August 2010 to December 2013 International Business & Information Security Portland State University - Portland, OR August 2007 to June 2009 A.S. in Computer Information Technology Murdoch University July 2008 to December 2008 Computer Information Systems Monroe Community College - Rochester, NY August 2006 to June 2007 Skills Security, testing, Active Directory, Cisco, SQL, Microsoft Office, HTML, training, Sharepoint Additional Information EPIC EHR Training  CompTIA A+