IT Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Analyst - U.S. Government Accountability Office Abingdon, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Analyst U.S. Government Accountability Office - Washington, DC June 2015 to Present • Participate as a team member performing on-site compliance inspections and assist the team leader in planning inspections and developing a unique methodology and approach for each specific site inspection.  • Use inspection knowledge to focus the inspection on underlying causes of problems related to the entire process.  • Conduct interviews at inspection sites, and develop individual findings for assigned areas identified, validated and verified during the course of inspections.  • Research, collect, organize, review and analyze information before, during and after the inspection and throughout the entire process to ensure that the inspection findings are valid and can be factually depicted and supported in the inspection results. Junior Cyber Security Analyst Zachary Piper, LLC - Beltsville, MD February 2015 to May 2015 • Conducted in-depth security analysis on security incidents utilizing various information and security technology systems.  • Monitored and responded to the ticket queue (Remedy) and e-mails.  • Compiled daily reports and participated in incident pass-down.  • Maintained documentation, process flows and technical designs. Help Desk Specialist I Beacon Hill - Fort Meade, MD May 2014 to February 2015 • Provided support to remote and local users in the areas of e-mail, directories, and Windows desktop applications, and resolved a full range of customer problems.  • Troubleshot hardware and software problems and provided feedback and/or solutions to customers and documented the resolution activities in Remedy Ticketing System.  • Communicated and coordinated with internal and external Information Technology Specialists regarding the resolution of IT issues.  • Configured desktops for network access and connection to local printers. Mobility Support Analyst AMSAQ, Inc - Fort Meade, MD December 2013 to March 2014 • Provided Tier III Help Desk and Current Operations (CuOps) support for iOS and Android CMDs provided by the Mobility PMO to Warfighters.  • Communicated technical concepts, information, and service-related topics to DISA's Chain of Command.  • Recommended solutions, documented and implemented Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for Tiers I and II and subsequent SOP updates.  • Provided hardware and software support to end users for tickets escalated from the Service Desk. Service Desk Analyst Digital Management Incorporated - Beltsville, MD August 2012 to December 2013 • Provided first call resolution and created tickets for 844,800 calls.  • Used Windows Active Directory to update end users' information, reset passwords, locate, and unlock user's accounts.  • Created and edited end user and office mailboxes, distribution lists and security groups using Microsoft Exchange Server 2010.  • Created a virtual server to house drivers for network printers and set up connections to local network printers for multiple users. Customer Account Executive Comcast - Largo, MD June 2010 to July 2011 • Handled 832,000 incoming calls covering the full range of customer services in a professional manner; obtained all information for ticket resolution.  • Diagnosed and resolved issues on computers, printers, phones, and televisions, digital set top boxes, DVRs, and checked TCP/IP settings, proxy servers, firewalls and IP addresses.  • Reset and restored connectivity for Windows XP, Windows Vista, and Windows 7 operating systems.  • Logged and tracked trouble tickets, created and assigned passwords using the Grandslam ticketing system. PC Refresh Technician Riverside Technologies/Lockheed Martin - Gaithersburg, MD April 2010 to May 2010 • Imaged, installed and tested software on new laptops and prepared them for deployment to local workforce.  • Setup and configured users' profiles for network and application access.  • Created, transferred, and restored backup files.  • Installed, upgraded and maintained system and application components on desktops and laptops. Education Master's in Cybersecurity University of Maryland University College Bachelor's in Electronics Engineering and Technology DeVry University Skills Active Directory (3 years), Security (7 years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Auditing (4 years), C++ (2 years), Troubleshooting (9 years), Customer Service (9 years), Remedy (2 years), Mobile (Less than 1 year) Certifications/Licenses Security+ 2012