Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> JAVA DEVELOPER Maryland City, MD • Around 2.6 years of experience including training in IT Infrastructure Management.  • Experienced in Java/J2EE technologies including development, deployment and support of web and server side applications.  • Good working knowledge in Core Java.  • Hands on experience in various open source technologies such as Spring Framework and Hibernate during training.  • Basic knowledge in different Databases like Oracle, MYSQL.  • Expertise in developing the web applications using web Servers such as Tomcat.  • Expertise in using the IDE like Eclipse.  • Basic Knowledge in Networking concepts.  • Proficient in Software Configuration Management tools like SVN.  • Good experience in working with Model View Controller architecture.  • Having good knowledge in Object Oriented Programming techniques.  • Strong analytical, problem solving skills with ability to quickly understand client business needs. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer Software Engineer HCL Technologies Ltd - Maryland City, MD May 2016 to May 2018 with 6 months training in Hyderabad and work experience in Chennai from May 2016 to May 2018.    Technical Skills:  Languages: JAVA.  Web/Distributed Technologies: Servlets, JSP.  Application/Web Servers: Tomcat.  Tools/IDEs: Eclipse.  Open Source Technologies: Spring MVC, Hibernate.  Version Control System: SVN.  Project 1 Java Developer CISCO - Chennai, Tamil Nadu May 2016 to May 2018 Environment: Linux, Java 1.7, Spring Framework, JSP, Oracle 12g, Tomcat 7.0.  Period: May 2016 to May 2018.    Prime Network is mainly focused on monitoring the cisco Real devices. Cisco Prime Network is a cost-effective device operation, administration, and network fault-management solution. This single solution helps service providers reduce management complexity and deliver carrier-class services. It supports the physical network components as well as the compute infrastructure, and virtual elements found in data centers.    Roles and Responsibilities: • Involved in development of VNE framework for multiple devices includes IOS-XE and XR devices.  • Handled critical defects at the time of delivery with minimum turnaround time • Tracking all defects to closure using the defect tracking tool CDETS.  • Involved in assisting Team members for technical issues.  • Followed Agile Software Development process while developing project.  • Followed PRRQ, Static analysis in the process of defect closure and feature support.  • Involved in discussions with client to understand the requirement.  • Involved in the process of giving demos developed feature tasks.  • Followed rally process while updating the daily basis tasks.  • Attending weekly/monthly huddle calls with both internal team and customers.  • Have dealt with the Documentation work and delivered the content to the client on time.    Achievements/Certifications • Awarded "Productivity Award" certificate in previous company.  • Qualified in java OCJP ( Java SE 7) in Oracle certification program.    Declaration:  I hereby declare that the above written particulars are true to the best of my knowledge and belief.  (Sai Krishna Bharati G) Education B.E. in Engineering Andhra University 2015 Board of Intermediate Education 2011 SSC Board of Secondary Education 2009 Skills Documentation (1 year), Spring, Core Java, Java, Hibernate, MySQL, CSS, Git, Javascript, HTML 5 Awards PRODUCTIVITY AWARD 2017-12 Productivity award for delivering the content on time with customer satisfaction. Certifications/Licenses OCJP ( Java SE 7) in Oracle certification Qualified the examination for the following topics:    Apply encapsulation principles to a class    Create a trycatch    block and determine how exceptions    alter normal program flow    Create an overloaded method    Create and use while loops    Declare and initialize variables    Declare and use an ArrayList    Define the structure of a Java class    Differentiate among checked exceptions,    RuntimeExceptions and Errors    Explain an object's lifecycle    Recognize common exception classes and categories    Test equality between strings and other objects using    == and equals ()    Use a switch statement    Use parentheses to override operator precedence