Senior Java Developer Senior <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Java Developer Denver, CO • Around 8 years of experience in Software Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of Object-Oriented Applications and Web based Enterprise Applications using Java/J2EE.  • Good experience in developing applications using Serve lets, JSP, JSTL, EJB, Struts, Spring, JSF, Java Beans, JDBC, JMS, Hibernate and MVC architecture, XML, and Web Services.  • Expertise in JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, HTML, HTML5, CSS, DHTML, XML, XSLT and XML Schemas and worked with JavaScript libraries like Angular.js, Node js, java Script.  • Experience with implementing application using AngularJS. Solid understanding Angular directives.  • Extensive Experience in using MVC (Model View Controller) architecture for developing applications using JSP, Java Beans and Servlet.  • Designed and implemented application using Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring DAO, Spring Annotations, Spring AOP and Spring Transactions.  • Implemented Batch jobs using Spring Batch created various item readers, item writers and item processors.  • Development experience with Core Java such as IO, Multithreading, Collections, Exception handling, Networking, JDBC.  • Good working knowledge on using Object/Relational bridge technologies such as Hibernate. HQL, Hibernate Caching, Hibernate Transactions.  • Expertise in design and development of various web- and enterprise-level applications using J2EE technologies like JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Oracle.  • Strong skills in RDBMS implementation and development using Oracle (10g, 11g), MySQL and hands on experience with SQL. Worked on NOSQL database DynamoDB  • Experience in Web Services Technologies like SOAP with WSDL and RESTful using JAX-RS specification with Jersey, spring, Apache CXF and Node-JS and implemented SOA architecture with web services.  • Excellent experience with Databases such as DB2, Oracle 10g/11g and SQL Server, JDBC, IBM.  • Comfortable working with MEAN (MongoDB, Express, Angular, NodeJS) stack  • Proficient in writing and handling SQL Queries, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures and Triggers.  • Good experience in Designing, Developing and Deploying Enterprise Java Beans in Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Jboss2.4.4, Apache Tomcat.  • Good understanding of NoSQL Database and hands on work experience in writing application on No SQL database like MongoDB.  • Developed crypto rest services using NodeJS and integrated services with HSM (Hardware Security Module)  • Good experience in J2EE Testing in developing test cases with JUnit Unit testing, and logging using Log4j.  • Hands-On experience in developing and debugging applications using IDEs IntelliJ IDEA, Eclipse, NetBeans, and RAD.  • Highly motivated self-starter with Excellent Communication, Presentation and Problem-Solving Skills and committed to learning new technologies.  • Experience in doing production support and solving the complex issues during the production support phase. Work Experience Senior Java Developer Hitachi - Englewood, CO July 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Extensively worked in entire SDLC life cycle like design, Coding, Code Review and Deployment preparation.  • Designed and Developed the application by using SCRUM methodology as per Company's Agile environment.  • Involved in Test driven development using Junit.  • Developed User Interface by coding in HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, Boot Strap for creating the Web pages.  • Developed Frond End Web application by using Angular JS and CSS.  • Reviewed acceptance criteria and design specifications to understand the application under test.  • Diverse experience utilizing Java tools in business, Web, and client-server environments including Java J2EE, Java multi-threading, Java Server Pages (JSP), Java Servlets, Struts, spring, Hibernate and Java database Connectivity (JDBC) technologies.  • Adept working of Core Java, MVC Architecture and Databases.  • Strong development experience using J2EE, Java8, Spring boot, IBM WebSphere Commerce, Struts, Tapestry, Hibernate.  • Produced Restful Webservices using JAX-RS and Jersey Framework.  • Thorough experience in Agile, Scrum methodologies.  • Developed proof of concept Spring Boot microservices for PCF pilot  • Designed and documented REST APIs, including JSON data formats and API versioning strategy and Validated Restful API services  • Designed and created Microservices business segments and RESTful administration endpoints utilizing Spring Boot.  • Involved in designing, coding and developing the application using Spring MVC.  • Coordination with team, peer reviews and collaborative System level testing.  • Performed Object relational mapping for data persistency, Java Messaging Services, AngularJS and Node.js.  • Hands-on experience on Oracle development tools such as Oracle SQL Java Developer.  • Prepared Test Cases, Procedures and Requirements Traceability Matrix using HP ALM.  • Involved in deploying systems on Amazon Web Services (AWS) Infrastructure Services EC2.  • Used AWS Lambda to run the code in the AWS (Amazon Web Services) and Deployed Spring Boot based micro services Docker container using Amazon EC2 container services and using AWS admin console.  • Designed & developed webservices in MVC pattern spring framework and used WAS for the deployments  • Experience with AWS S3 services creating buckets, configuring buckets with permissions, logging, versioning and tagging.  • Responsible also for updating stories and test cases in JIRA  • Worked also as a feature level tester finding integration points and writing feature level test cases.  • Used Jenkins as a Continuous Integration server to configure with GitHub and Maven.  • Prepared status summary reports with details of executed, passed and failed test cases.    Environment: SQL Server, Java, HP ALM, Jira, Selenium, Rally, AWS, Mango DB, STS, Cucumber, BDD, Oracle, Windows, Linux. Senior Java Developer Century Link - Jefferson, CO October 2015 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Client Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of the application using AGILE methodology (SCRUM)  • Implemented Spring Boot MS on Dockers Container and Eureka server.  • Developed and Implemented Spring Boot micro service using Jenkins builds scripts.  • Used AWS SDK to connect with Amazon SQS for bulk email processing.  • Skilled in leading frameworks as React JS to build high-quality, scalable and reusable components and Front-end solution  • Implemented AWS IAM for managing the credentials of applications that runs on EC2 instances.  • Created customized AMIs based on already existing AWS EC2 instances by using create image functionality, hence using this snapshot for disaster recovery.  • Trained and mentored Data Entry Operators in Ephesoft, in addition to regex methodologies and best practices.  • Designed various modules using technologies like CSS Media Queries, HTML5, AJAX, JSON, and JavaScript.  • Developed the User Interface for presentation layer using Angular-JS1.5, Bootstrap, Java Script and HTML.  • Deployed patches on WebLogic, OIM, SOA and Oracle Common homes respectively  • Developed various helper classes needed following Core Java, Collections and Multi-Threading concept to process multiple tasks concurrently to make performance better.  • Solace Appliance build for Messaging.  • Implemented Micro Services using Spring Boot, Spring Cloud and enabled discovery using consul Server  • Worked on adding a java embedding task in SOA to update the request status in OIM and remove the callback services  • Implemented Swagger framework for Restful web services documentation. Used Swagger annotations to generate Swagger documentation.  • Responsible for the maven setup of the project along with deployment to Docker, worked with Docker Containers and building images Dockers file.  • Tuning of WebLogic parameters such as JTA, JDBC connection timeouts, OIM DB and SOA connection timeouts.  • Develop Rest services with spring technologies like MVC cloud, spring JPA and AWS.  • Configured & deployed Java applications on Amazon Web Services (AWS) for a multitude of applications utilizing the AWS stack, cloud formation.  • Developed server-side software modules and client-side user interface components deployed entirely in Compute Cloud of Amazon Web Services (AWS)  • Worked with Java libraries to access AWS facilities as Simple Storage Service (S3), Simple Queue Service (SQS) and DynamoDB.  • Implemented ELK (Elastic Log stash Kibana) stack to collect and analyze logs produced by different applications.  • Configured Swagger-UI registered Micro service with Eureka server to monitor service health check from Spring Boot admin console.  • Involved in build and deploying code in development environment using Jenkins.  • Using SOLR / Elasticsearch created a detail analytical graphical dashboard in Kibana for Patient Data, Claim Data and Provider Data.  • The front-end use HTML5, CSS3, React JS, jQuery and Bootstrap to build a single page web app that communicate with back-end via RESTful API.  • Involved in testing the REST Services using several testing tools like Postman and Rest Client.  • Used Hibernate to communicate with post gresql SQL database, automated database up gradation using Flyway.  • Expertise in Java programming and have a good understanding on OOPs, Collections, Exceptions Handling, Input/output (I/O) System, Swing, Annotations, Multi-Threading, Lambda, and Generics.  • Heavily leveraged multithreading for improved performance  • Involved in writing unit test cases, implement test classes using Junit, mocking frame works like JMockito and Mock MVC.  • Used Kafka in a POC to send data and persist on Cassandra Database.  • Used Slf4j as logging framework to capture the log traces of applications in debugging the issues, Used JIRA for issue tracking and change management.  • Utilize RegEx (Regular Expressions) to filter data.  • Used GitHub to maintain the version of the files and took the responsibility to do the code merges from branch to trunk and creating new branch when new feature implementation starts.  • Used Spring Tool Suite (STS) IDE tool for application development.  Environment: Java 1.8, Spring, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, XML, JSON, GitHub, Hibernate, PostgreSQL, AWS, JUnit, Maven, Jenkins, Tomcat, Restful, Micro Services, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular JS, JSP, Agile Methodology, Slf4j and STS Marketing DCI - Milwaukee, WI June 2014 to October 2015 Senior Java Developer    Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases of the Software development life cycle (SDLC) using Agile Methodology.  • Involved in the development of the User Interfaces using HTML, JSP, JS, Dojo Tool Kit, CSS and AJAX.  • Ensured JIRA capture add-on and configure JIRA capture tool for exploratory testing, easy creation of issue with browser extension by pre-filling templates.  • Involved in developing the Graphical User Interface using HTML, JavaScript, CSS and JSP.  • Prepared demos and proofs of concept to demonstrate various use cases for OTT/API solutions.  • Ability to architect, estimate and respond to MDM proposals  • Developed the application using JSF MVC Framework.  • JavaScript/HTML5 and CSS3 development of web platform, using jQuery and vanilla JavaScript while maintaining mobile device compatibility.  • Working with different Object-Oriented Concepts like Inheritance, Multithreading, Exceptional Handling  • Direct and prioritize the day-to-day tasks for off-shore QA teams.  • Tuning of WebLogic parameters such as JTA, JDBC connection timeouts, OIM DB and SOA connection timeouts.  • Extended existing OIM cluster by adding new OIM managed server.  • Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML file that contains declarations and another dependent object declaration.  • Proficiency in multiple databases like MongoDB, Cassandra, MySQL, ORACLE and MS SQL Server.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries, third party libraries and Java Script to simplify the complexities of the application  • Inserted Dependency Injection between components using Spring (IOC) concept.  • Used multithreading in programming to improve overall performance using Singleton design pattern in Hibernate Utility class.  • Implemented SOA architecture with Web Services using SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and XML using CXF framework tool/ Commons. Worked on parsing the XML files using DOM/SAX parse.  • Created tables, triggers, stored procedures, SQL queries, joins, integrity constraints and views for multiple databases, Oracle 10gusing Toad tool.  • Involved in Unit Testing of various modules by generating the Test Cases.  • Developed Ant Scripts for the build process and deployed in deployed on a WebLogic Application server.  • Involved in Bug fixing of various modules that were raised by the testing teams in the application during the Integration testing phase.  • Implemented Log4J for Logging Errors, debugging and tracking using logger's components.  • Use Subversion (SVN) version control system to maintain current and historical versions of files such as source code, web pages, and documentation  • Used Rational Clear Case for version control and Clear Quest for bug tracking.  • Performed deployment of applications on WebLogic Application Server.  • Worked on UNIX environment for development.    Environment: Java, HTML, CSS, JQuery, Angular JS2, J2EE, XMI, JSF, Hibernate, SQL, PL/SQL, Spring, Oracle, Subversion, Maven, Eclipse, JIRA, Web Logic Application Server, UNIX. Java/J2EE Developer Cognizant Technologies September 2013 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis and Design of the project, which is based on MVC (Model View Controller) Architecture and Design patterns.  • Involved in various phases of project development following Agile (Extreme Programming)  • Developed user interface using HTML, CSS, JSP and JavaScript along with Struts Tags to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Strong knowledge of Algorithms & Data Structures, OOP's, Collections, DAO, Model, Controller, Filters, mapping POJO classes to database.  • Developed the application using Struts Framework that leverages classical Model View Controller (MVC) architecture.  • Developed Controller Servlets, Action and Form objects for process of interacting with Oracle database and retrieving dynamic data.  • Wrote custom support modules for upgrade implementation using PL/SQL, UNIX Shell scripts.  • Used Spring MVC and Dependency Injection for handling presentation and business logic.  • To maintain loose coupling between layers published the business layer as services and injected the necessary dependent components using Spring IOC and published cross cutting concerns like Logging, User Interface exceptions, Transactions using Spring AOP.  • Integrated Spring DAO for data access using Hibernate.  • Used Spring Security for Authentication and Authorization of the application.  • Extensively used JSON to parse the data from server side to satisfy the business requirement.  • Responsible for designing Hibernate mapping files based on business logic and Object relationships.  • Integrated Spring and Hibernate together and worked on developing backend components and services using Hibernate and spring.  • Extensively used the Hibernate Query Language (HQL) and developed Data Access Objects using Spring ORM  • Involved in writing SQL queries and stored procedures for the application in Oracle  • Consumed Web Services to interact with other external interfaces in order to exchange the data in different forms by using RESTful service.  • Established Database Connectivity using JDBC, Hibernate O/R mapping with Spring ORM for Oracle.  • Packaged and deployed the application in IBM Web Sphere.  • Written LINUX shell scripts to identify user login information.  • Used Maven tools for building and deploying the Web applications.  • Implemented JUNIT test cases for unit testing and Suites for end to end testing.  • Used JIRA for tracking the Project Stories and used SVN as version control tool.  • Developed enhancements to MongoDB architecture to improve performance and scalability.    Environment: Java, J2EE, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Angular JS, JSON, XML, Spring MVC, Hibernate, RESTful, HQL, SQL, IBM Web Sphere Application Server, Oracle, JMS, JNDI, Maven, UML, JIRA, Tortoise SVN, LINUX. Java Developer Capgemini June 2012 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Use Struts and JavaScript for web page development and front-end validations  • Fetch and process customer related data using Mercator (IBM WTX) as interface between Apollo workstation with Mainframes  • Created Servlets, JSPs and used JUnit framework for unit testing  • Developed EJBs, DAOs, Stored Procedures and SQL queries to support system functionality  • Application design and documentation -- UML system use cases, class, sequence diagrams developed using MS Visio.  • Extensively used XML documents with XSLT and CSS to translate it to HTML to present to GUI.  • Developed Session beans for functionality as per the requirement. Used Spring MVC framework for implementing the Web tier of the application. Used Hibernate API to perform database operations.  • Used Design patterns like MVC pattern, DAO pattern, and singleton to achieve clean separation of layers.  • Use Ant scripts to automate application build and deployment processes  • Support Production/Stage application defects, track and document using Quality Center.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JVM, Struts, JavaScript, JUnit, UML, MS Visio, JDBC, CVS, Ant, Eclipse, Web logic Server, Oracle 9i, Toad, Unix. Education Bachelor's in Information Technology Skills CSS (7 years), JAVA (7 years), JAVASCRIPT (7 years), JDBC (7 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (7 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages Java, C/C++    Technologies  JDBC, Servlets, JSP, Java Beans, MVC, EJB, JSF, JMS, SOA, JavaScript, Angular JS1.5, Java Swing, React JS, JQuery, AJAX, CSS 3, XML, CXF and HTML5    Design Patterns  Core J2EE patterns (MVC, Value Object, Session Facade, Service Locator, Data Access Object, Singleton, and Business Delegates)    Testing & Continuous Integration Tools Selenium and Test-Driven Development (TDD), Jenkins  IDE Eclipse, My Eclipse 6.0 and Net Beans IDE  Web service protocols SOAP, REST, JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, JAXB, WSDL and UDDI  Version Controls CVS, SVN, GIT, AWS.  Frameworks Spring 4.0, 3.x, JSF, Node JS and Hibernate, Bootstrap  Design Technologies OOAD and UML  Architecture Service Oriented Architecture, TOGAF  Build Tools Ant and Maven  Database Oracle 9i/10g/11g, SQL Server and MySQL, MONGO  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP, HTTPS, TELNET and FTP    Operating Systems All Version of Microsoft Windows, UNIX and LINUX  Logging Tool Log4J, SLF4J  Tools AWS, Amazon Web Services, Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF) Spring cloud Netflix (Eureka, Zuul, Hysrtrix, Ribbon)