Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - American Express Phoenix, AZ ? Around 8+ years of extensive IT experience in Analysis, Design, Testing, Deployment of various web based and client/serverapplications in multi-platform environments with JAVA/J2EE technologies and involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  ? Proficient in designing and developing web applications which are highly scalable, secure, transactional, highperformance and easy to maintain.  ? Experience in developing application using Software Development methodologies like Water Fall, Agile (SCRUM) and Test-Driven Development (TDD).  ? Experience in Front-End UI development using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Ajax, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS and NodeJS.  ? Experience with Java 1.8 features such as Lambdas for making function calls by using functional interfaces which makes code readable and concise.  ? Experience in implementing Java1.8 features and like parallel streams, lambdas and filters.  ? Experience in developing cloud-based applications using Spring Cloud, Pivotal Cloud Foundry, and AWS.  ? Experience in working with AWS like EC2, EBS, ELB, S3, SQS, Lambda, Dynamo DBand Elastic Search.  ? Expertise in developing and implementing application based on SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) and Micro Service Architecture.  ? Expertise in developing enterprise applications with various open source frameworks like Java/J2EE, JSP, JSTL, Servlets, EJB, Struts, Spring (Core, IOC, MVC, AOP, Security, Boot, Batch), Web Services, JMS, JPA, JDBC and Hibernate.  ? Hands on experience in design and development of robust and highly scalable applications and API's based on REST and SOAP applications using AXIS,WSDL, UDDI, XML, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, JAXB, JAX-RPC and Jersey, Apache CXF frameworks.  ? Experience in implementing Core Java concepts and strong understanding of Garbage Collector, SWING, Collections, Multithreading, Event handling', Exception handling, Generics and Serialization.  ? Experience in design patterns like Singleton, Factory, Prototype, Business Delegate, Session Façade Pattern, Service locator, Visitor, Observer, Decorator, Front Controller, DAO, MVC, Abstract Factory and Factory Pattern for reusing most efficient and effective strategies for new development.  ? Expertise in XML technologies such as DTD,XSL, XSLT, XML schemas, XSL and parsers like SAX, DOM.  ? Expertise in developing and consuming REST and SOAP based Web Services.  ? Experienced with JAX-RS specification like Jersey andRest Easy to Implement REST based Application.  ? Experienced with JAX-RPC, JAX-WS specification like Apache Axis I, Apache Axis II and Apache CXF to Implement SOAP based Application and tested it using Soap UI.  ? Experienced in the persistence layer using JPA, JDBC and Hibernate to persist data to the database.  ? Experience with Java Messaging Services (JMS) like Rabbit MQ, Active MQ and Apache camel.  ? Hands on experience working with Relational Databases like Oracle, DB2, My SQL and No SQL databases like MongoDB andDynamo DB.  ? Proficient in creatingBusiness tables, PL/SQL Stored procedures and writing SQL queries to retrieve data from the database.  ? Pleasant experience in different IDEs like Eclipse, RAD, Spring Tool Suite, and IntelliJ IDEA.  ? Experience in working with various application and web servers like JBOSS, BES Web Logic, IBM Web Sphere, Glassfish, and Apache Tomcat.  ? Developing test cases and determining application functionality using JUnit, Mockito and Log4j.  ? Experienced with build automation tools like Maven, Gradle, ANT and Jenkins for CI/CD.  ? Worked with different version control systems like Tortoise SVN, GIT, CVS and Visual Source Safe.  ? Expertise in Docker containers, leveraging Linux containers and AMI's to create Docker Images/Containers.  ? Experience in development, deployment and troubleshooting Web based and enterprise-based applications on Windows, UNIX and Linux platforms.  ? Effective communication and analytical skills and a demonstrated ability to handle multiple tasks as well as work independently or in a team. Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer American Express - Phoenix, AZ September 2018 to Present Description: American Express is a banking and global financial services company that provides customers for access to products, insights and experiences that enrich lives and build business success. The project was involved for creating UI Screens for Amex product/service and also developing an internal Java coding by retrieving data from client side, processing it and saving within the database. It also involved for fetching the data from database and displaying it to the user.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modeling, analysis, design, development, and testing.  ? Developed the view-controller components using JSPs, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript (jQuery).  ? Implemented routing logic and navigation from screen to screen and implemented login functionality on the client side in AngularJS.  ? Hands-on experience in developing integration with Elastic search in any of the programming languages like JAVA and JavaScript. Having knowledge of advance reporting using Elastic search and NodeJS.  ? Implemented core features of AngularJS frameworks such as dependency Injection, Data-binding, Filters, Directives, Templates, Services and DeepLinkingDesigning.  ? Used Java 1.8 features like stream and Lambda expressions.  ? Maintained Interface compatibility and concurrency in the project using Java 1.8 new features like default, staticmethods and ConcurrencyAPI.  ? Developed the monolithic application and involved in migrating existing monolithic application in to Micro Service Architecture based RESTful Service and deployments were done on AWS using Spring Cloud for AWS.  ? Designed and developed Micro Services business components using Spring.  ? Involved in the development of Micro Services for all the models using combination of Spring Boot and Spring Security.  ? Responsible for creating an instance on Amazon EC2 (AWS) and deployed the application on it.  ? Deployed Docker contained Spring boot micro services in to AWS EC2 container service using AWS admin console and used lambda to run applications in AWS console.  ? Developed API's to read and publish data from Elastic Search cluster using native Java Transport client as well as REST client. Worked on Spring Integration with the Elastic Search.  ? Implemented the RESTAPI's and data transformers using the JAVA connector which involves the JAVA8 features Lambda and Streams in particular.  ? Used Spring MVC framework for implementing Model-View- Controller (MVC) architecture at the Web tier level to isolate each layer of the application so that complexity of integration will be reduced, and maintenance will be very easy.  ? Used Spring AOP for solving crosscutting concerns like keeping logged data and transactions details etc.  ? Used Spring Batch for processing large amount of data like transaction management, job processing, resource management and logging.  ? Secured the API's by implementing OAuth 2.0 token-based authentication/authorization scheme using Spring Security.  ? Designed and developed third-party Payment services to Offer Users Convenient Payment Methods based on OAuth Protocol.  ? Used Hibernate ORM framework as persistenceengine and wrote Hibernate Queries to automate the mapping between Oracle database and Objects in Java.  ? Involved in writing SQL and StoredProcedures for handling complex queries with help of TOAD and access them through Java Programs from OracleDatabase.  ? Worked with MongoDB to store non-relational data into collection and retrieve them whenever required.  ? Worked on setting up Maven scripts to build, package, and deploy application code to the target WebLogic Application Servers and worked on continuous integration servers like Jenkins.  ? Hands on Coding to build REST Micro Services using SpringCloud, Oracle, XSD, JSON, Spring Config, and Jenkins.  ? Worked on developing RESTful endpoints to cache application specific data in in-memory dataclusters like REDIS and exposed them with RESTful endpoints.  ? Focused on Test Driven Development there by creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality before writing the functionality.  ? Worked on Log4J to validate functionalities and Mockito framework, JUnit for unit testing  ? Performed automation testing and authored test scripts using Selenium Web Driver, Selenium Grid and JUnit.  ? Worked in Agile TDD environment using SDLC tools like GIT, Jira, Jenkins, and Maven for build packaging and deployments of the application components.    Environment: Agile(SCRUM), Java 1.8, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, Bootstrap, AngularJS, AWS, Micro Services, Hibernate, Spring, MongoDB, Spring Batch, Spring Boot, Spring Security, XML, GIT, JSP, Spring MVC, JDBC, Mockito, JUnit, Maven, IBM WebSphere, BackboneJS, Selenium, Restful, Log4J, SOA, Java Server Pages, JIRA, Spring Security, Jenkins and STS. Sr. Java Developer Enterprise Holdings - St. Louis, MO April 2016 to September 2018 Description: Enterprise Holdings and its affiliates offer extensive car rentals, carsharing, truck rental. By using different brands like (Enterprise, National and Alamo). We can access those car rentals through the web and mobile applications are fleet management, retails car sales and other transportation services.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in all the phases of SDLC including Requirements Collection, Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications, Development and Customization of the Application using SOA.  ? Application is implemented using agile methodology where there is a daily SCRUM meeting to understand the status and resolve any issues.  ? Developed front-end content using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax and AngularJS.  ? Applied data transformation rules to transform code from one format to another for at using NodeJS.  ? Created the NodeJS Express server to build MVC framework from front-end side AngularJS to back end.  ? Developed client-side application ina clean MVC architecture andresponsive web pages using Bootstrap.  ? Involved in System builds using Spring Model View Controller (MVC) architecture.  ? Implemented Dependency Injection (IOC) feature of spring framework to inject beans into User Interface and SpringAOP for reusability logging purpose.  ? Used HibernateORM solution technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with an SQL-based schema.  ? Implemented and developed Restful web services with JAX-RS using Jersey as provider and implemented security using OAUTH.  ? Worked with Spring's JDBC DAO module to interact with MySQL and implemented database logging.  ? Developed and Consumed SOAP based Web Services with JAX-WS specification.  ? Implemented DAO layer using Spring Integration and Hibernate to persist the data to the database.  ? Written complex SQL queries, HQL, created business tables and PL/SQL procedures to store and retrieve data from the database.  ? Implemented SOA architectureusing JMS for sending and receiving messages while creating web services.  ? Used Rabbit MQ as Java Messaging Service for producing and consuming data between applications.  ? Developed JUnit test cases for elements, web beans, handlers and view helper classes.  ? Focused on Test Driven Development(TDD) for creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality before writing the functionality.  ? Configured development environment using Web Sphere server for developer's integration testing.  ? Used Maven as build automation tool andJenkins to perform continuous Integration.  ? Used GIT for version control tool and RAD for IDE.    Environment: Java, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, Spring Core, Spring Security, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Hibernate, OAuth, MySQL, REST, SOAP, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, Jersey, JMS, Rabbit MQ, Docker, Junit, TDD, SOA, Web Sphere, Maven, Jenkins, GIT, Agile Methodology, and RAD. Java Developer Level 3 Communications - Broomfield, CO November 2014 to April 2016 Description:Level 3 Communications is an American multinational telecommunications and Internet service provider company. The project is about checking the connectivity to the network elements of the particular device. It deals with the connection to the port and checks the interface status (up/down) and BGP status (up/down) by using the peer address.    Responsibilities:  ? Using Agile methodologies to plan work for every iteration and used continuous integration tool to make the build passes before deploying the code to other environments.  ? Used Spring MVC and Dependency Injection for handling presentation and business logic.  ? To maintain loose coupling between layers published the business layer as services and injected necessary dependent components using Spring IOC and published cross cutting concerns like Logging, User Interface exceptions, Transactions using Spring AOP.  ? Integrated Spring DAO for data access using Hibernate.  ? Implemented persistence framework using Hibernate& Handled Transaction Management using the provided data source.  ? Used Spring Security for Authentication and Authorization of the application.  ? Extensively used JSON to parse the data from server side to satisfy the business requirement.  ? Responsible for designing Hibernate mapping files based on business logic and Object relationships.  ? Integrated Spring and Hibernate together and worked on developing backend components and services using Hibernate and spring.  ? Established Database Connectivity using JDBC, Hibernate O/R mapping with Spring ORM for Oracle.  ? Worked on Hibernate for mapping the java objects to relational database and SQL queries to fetch the data, insert and update the data from the database.  ? Used Hibernate in Data Access Layer to access and update information in the database.  ? Extensively used HQL and SQL for querying databases.  ? Consumed Web Services to interact with other external interfaces to exchange the data in different forms by using Restful service.  ? Implemented SOA architecture with Web Services using SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and XML using Apache CXFframework and worked on parsing the XML files using DOM/SAX parsers.  ? Created tables, triggers, PL/SQL Stored Procedures, SQL queries, Joins, i2ntegrityconstraints and views for IBM DB2.  ? Used Multithreading to improve overall performance using Singleton pattern in Hibernate Utility class.  ? Implemented Restful and SOAP based Web Services and used Soap UI for testing.  ? Used Docker to collaborate code, run and deliver more securely for both Linux, Windows server.  ? Used Spring JMS module for lookup for the queues and MDBs for the listeners.  ? Involved in Unit Testing of various modules by generating the Test Cases.  ? Performed deployment of applications on Web Logic.  ? Involved in day to day handling of JIRA issues (production issues at time) that involved data inconsistencies that required to be solved in very less time.  ? Used Jenkins as build management tool for continuous integration process and used GIT as Version Control.  ? Involved in Bug fixing of various modules that were raised by the testing teams in the application during the Integration testing phase.  ? Participated in Code Reviews of other modules, documents and test cases.  ? Written LINUX shell scripts to identify user login information.    Environment: Java, J2EE, HTML, CSS, Java Script, JSP, JSTL, Spring (IOC, MVC, DAO, Security), Hibernate, IBM DB2, XML, XSD, SOAP UI, Restful, SOAP, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, WSDL, JMS, JUnit, Web Logic, Jenkins, Gradle, GIT, JIRA, Agile Methodology, Windows, Linux. Java/J2EE Developer Colonial Life Insurance - Columbia, SC August 2012 to November 2014 Description:This is an online application that enables clients to access, review and update their products purchased from Colonial Life Insurance. The primary users of this application are Colonial Life Insurance policy owners, agents and customer service representatives. The application provides an integrated environment for account management, policy changes/renewals, monthly premium dues alerts, claims processing status.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in all phases of the Software development life cycle (SDLC) using Agile Methodology.  ? Developed User Interface using JSP, JSF, JSTL, HTML, CSS3, Java Script, jQuery.  ? Used various jQuery UI controls and corresponding Event handlers.  ? Used Spring MVC and Dependency Injection for handling presentation and business logic.  ? To maintain loose coupling between layers published the business layer as services and injected necessary dependent components using Spring IOC and published cross cutting concerns like Logging, User Interface exceptions, Transactions using Spring AOP.  ? Integrated Spring DAO for data access using Hibernate.  ? Used Spring Security for Authentication and Authorization of the application.  ? Implemented persistence framework using Hibernate& Handled Transaction Management using the provided data source.  ? Responsible for designing Hibernate mapping files based on business logic and Object relationships.  ? Integrated Spring and Hibernate together and worked on developing backend components and services using Hibernate and spring.  ? Established Database Connectivity using JDBC, Hibernate O/R mapping with Spring ORM for DB2.  ? Worked on Hibernate in Data Access Layer for mapping the java objects to relational database and SQL queries to fetch the data, insert and update the data from the database.  ? Consumed Web Services to interact with other external interfaces to exchange the data in different forms by using RESTful service.  ? Implemented SOA architecture with Web Services using SOAP, WSDL and XML using Apache CXFframework and worked on parsing the XML files using DOM/SAX parsers.  ? Extensively used JSON to parse the data from server side to satisfy the business requirement.  ? Created Tables, Triggers, PL/SQL Stored Procedures, SQL queries, Joins and views for IBM DB2.  ? Implemented RESTful and SOAP based Web Services and used Soap UI for testing.  ? Used Spring JMS module for lookup for the queues and MDBs for the listeners.  ? Involved in Unit Testing of various modules by generating the Test Cases.  ? Performed deployment of applications on JBOSS.  ? Written LINUX shell scripts to identify user login information.  ? Involved in day to day handling of JIRA issues (production issues at time) that involved data inconsistencies that required to be solved in very less time.  ? Involved in Bug fixing of various modules that were raised by the testing teams in the application during the Integration testing phase.  ? Participated in Code Reviews of other modules, documents, test cases.    Environment: Java, J2EE, HTML, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, JSP, JSTL, Spring, Hibernate, XML, XSD, SOAP UI, Web Services, RESTful, SOAP, WSDL, Log4j, JUnit, IBM DB2, JBOSS, Jenkins, SVN, Eclipse IDE, JIRA, Agile Methodology, Linux, Rational Rose and UML. Education Bachelor's Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jax, Jax-rpc, Jax-ws, Jboss, jquery, Jsp, Jstl, Servlet, Struts, Database, Db2, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Amazon web services Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages C, C++, Java 1.8, J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL  Mark-up/XML Technologies JSP, JSTL, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery, Ajax, AngularJS, ReactJS, XSD, XSL/XSLT, SAX/DOM and JSON.  Tools & Framework  Servlet, Struts, Spring, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Data, Spring Web Flow, Jasper reports, Log4j and Groovy/Grails.    Build Automation ANT, MAVEN, Jenkins, Bamboo, Gradle.  Web services SOAP, RESTful, UDDI, WSDL, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, JAX-B, Micro services, Axis2 and Apache CXF.  Cloud Technologies Amazon Web Services (EC2, SQS, RDS, IAM, S3), Pivotal Cloud Foundry and Spring Cloud.  Web/App Servers Web Sphere, Apache, Tomcat, JBOSS, Web Logic Server and Apache Camel.  Database Oracle, My SQL, TOAD, DB2, Cassandra, MongoDB and Dynamo DB.  IDEs Eclipse, Net Beans, RAD, IntelliJ and Spring Tool Suite (STS).  O-R mapping Hibernate, IBatis and JPA.  Testing Tools/ Others Selenium, TestNG, JUnit, Mockito, Soap UI, Putty, Rational Clear Quest and Star Team.  Version Control Tortoise SVN, CVS, Rational Clear case and Git.  OS & Environment Windows, UNIX, Linux  Design Patterns MVC, Front Controller, Singleton, Business Delegate and DAO patterns