Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - ZAP Labs Emeryville, CA PART1  • 8+ Years of experience as a JAVA/J2EE Developer.  • Experience in developing applications using core JAVA with various J2EE technologies including Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Java Beans, Spring (IOC, MVC, AOP, DAO) 4.2/3.5/3.0, Mybatis3, Hibernate 4.0/3.0, XML, and Web Services, Design Patterns.  • Expertise in all Spring Modules such as Spring Core, MVC, Dependency Injection, AOP and Transaction, Spring ORM, Spring JDBC.  • Experience in Database persistence layer like Mybatis3 and Hbernate 4.2/3.0.  • Experience in Monolithic web application to Micro services and AWS cloud using Docker to achieve high scalability, throughput and high availability.  • Working knowledge of PL/SQL and database like MySQL Server, Oracle 11g/10g and tools like Oracle SQL Developer also Mongo DB.  • Experienced in creating Amazon EC2 instances and setting up security groups. Configured Elastic Load Balancers with EC2 Auto scaling groups.  • Experience in working with third party applications in AWS cloud.  • Experience with Streaming platforms like Apache Kafka.  • Involved in writing the microservices in Springboot application with Spring annotations.  • Experience in database designing using RDBMS concepts in Oracle and MS SQL.  • Hands-on experience in writing Stored Procedures, Functions, Views, Triggers, Cursors and Joins.  • Experience with TDD (Test Driven Development using JUnit).  • Experience in XML and related technologies XSL, XSLT, XPath.  • Good working knowledge of Maven for project build/deployment, Log4j for logging and JUnit for unit and integration testing, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Jquery, AJAX.  • Good working knowledge of Jenkins for deployment, Maven for project build/deployment, Log4j for logging and JUnit for unit and integration testing.  • Design and development of web-based applications using different Web and Application Servers such as Apache Tomcat 8.0/7.0/6.0, JBoss 9.0.  • Hands-on working experience with IDE tools like Eclipse, Intellij, IDEA.  • Experience in developing applications on operating systems like Windows, UNIX and Linux.  • Experience in Coding, Implementation and Unit testing and Performance Testing.  • Experience in all phases of the Software Development Life Cycle across various workflows (Requirement study, Analysis, Design, Coding, Testing, Deployment and Maintenance) in Web & Client/Server application development.  PART2  • Experience in C++ Socket Programming, good working knowledge of socket work flow as Create, Bind, Listen, Accept, Connect, Send, Receive, and Close.  • Experience in Python back end developing, skilled at Django framework.  • Involved in C++ 2D game developing, hands-on working experience with the SDL framework.  • Strong background on Machine learning, hands-on working experience with the Scikit-Learn, PyLearn2, Theano and TensorFlow  • Skilled at build CNN system, and the parameters optimization.  • Hands-on experience on the Safety of Face Recognition System attacked by Adversarial Examples.  PART3  • Motivated team player with Excellent Communication, interpersonal, analytical and problem solving skills.  • Keen interest in mastering new technologies and understanding new industry developments and the evolution of next generation programming solutions.  • Excellent communication, interpersonal and analytical skills and a highly motivated team player with the ability to work independently.  • Highly motivated self-starter with a strong analytical problem solving, having ability to multi-task, work in a team environment, understand and be responsive to customer needs, work under tight deadline. Work Experience Java Developer ZAP Labs - Emeryville, CA January 2018 to Present Description: Worked as a Java Developer to develop/enhance the real estate application in order to allow users to make better decisions. The web application included CRM-like functionality to allow Customer Sales Representatives to process and maintain new and existing orders.  Roles & Responsibilities:  • Implemented JSPs corresponding to the controller where in the data was propagated into from the model and view object from the Controller.  • Designed and Implemented MVC architecture using Spring Framework.  • Provided technical guidance to business analysts, gather the requirements and convert them into technical specifications/artifacts.  • Build microservices for the delivery of software products across the enterprise.  • Analyzed the low level design (LLD) document and high level design document (HLD) as per the business requirements.  • Administered and Engineered Jenkins for managing weekly Build, Test and Deploy chain, GIT with Dev/Test/Prod Branching Model for weekly releases.  • Actively participated in Story Card Reviews during the transition from Waterfall to Agile Scrum.  • Built Apache Kafka Multi nodes cluster to monitor multiple clusters.  • Involved in writing the microservices in Springboot application with Spring annotations.  • Used Quality Center for change management and defect tracking.  • Used Spring Framework as middle tier application framework, persistence strategy using spring support for Hibernate for integrating with database.  • Involved in Developing and performing Unit Testing and creating mock objects using JUnit.  • Implemented business tier using Spring Dependency Injection in order to establish relationships between application components.  • Developed Hibernate Mapping (hbm.xml) file for mapping declaration.  • Involved in writing simplex and complex SELECT queries in SQL for back-end testing.  • Created database tables and implemented SQL Stored Procedures and complex queries in Oracle SQL Developer.  • Worked on CI/CD tools like Jenkins, Docker in Devops Team.  • Coded the UI using Struts Forms and Tags.  • Used Hibernate ORM Tool for the backend persistence and developed DAO interfaces for interaction with the database.  • Analyzed and performed fixes on logged application defects by comparing the system behavior to the design specifications.  • Built and accessed the database using Hibernate with Oracle.  • Developed unit test cases using JUnit framework.  • Used Spring validation framework for serverside validation of user data submissions.  • Created JSP pages using standard JSTL tags, as well as Struts tags.  • Used Apache log 4j logging framework for application logging for debug purposes.  Environment: Java, JSP, JSTL, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Oracle, Eclipse, Jenkins, JUnit. Java Developer T-Mobile - Los Angeles, CA September 2016 to December 2017 Description: T-Mobile is a national Provider of wireless voice, messaging and data services capable of reaching over 308 million Americans. The company's advanced 4G LTE network delivers outstanding wireless experiences to 72.6 million customers.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Hibernate had been used for implementing the Persistence Framework for Database.  • Involved in writing Service (Session Beans), Object Service and DAO layers of an application.  • Followed the client coding standards.  • Used Log4j Logger and Debugger to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  • Apache Tomcat was used to develop and deploy the application.  • Used Agile methodology to develop the application.  • Developed the code, which makes users to sign in, solicit information from the user, add the user's information in the database and modify the existing user information.  • Developed programs for accessing the database using JDBC thin driver to execute queries, prepared statements, Stored Procedures and to manipulate the data in the database.  • Involved in the testing process with the clients for all the phases of the project.  • Involved in maintenance work and fixed some of the bugs during testing process.  • Performed documentation for change requests and system requirement specifications of the project.  • Designed and implemented business components for applications using JDBC.  • Web Service was created using SOAP and Apache-cxf, JAX-RS.  • Developed custom JSP tags for role-based sorting and filtering, which were used in the front-end of the presentation layer.  • Database tables were created in Oracle 10g.    Environment: Core Java, J2EE, Web Services, XML, JAX-RS, XSD, WSDL, SOAP, SQL, JSP, JSTL, JUnit, JBOSS, Spring MVC, Hibernate, PL/SQL, Apache Tomcat, Apache-cxf, Log4j. Java Developer Fossil - Richardson, TX January 2014 to August 2016 Description: Implemented budgeting Application which distributes budget across the Fossil Stores in the country to manage merchandisers. This application makes the admin/manager to assign Merchandisers to Fossil Stores and allocates Time and Hourly rate to the merchandisers.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Involved in the requirement gathering and analysis. Interacted with team members and Business users during the design and development of the application.  • Implemented the application using Java/J2EE technologies and used design patterns such as Singleton, Factory and Data Access Object (DAO) in the implementation of the application  • Extensively worked on web services to interact with different sub systems.  • Created Webservice Definition Language (WSDL) and XML Schemas to provide a data access service for the web applications.  • Developed controlling and navigation part with the help of Struts 2 Frame work.  • Used JDBC, Spring JDBC and Hibernate to interact with the Database and implement database operations.  • Developed Front end using JSP, DHTML, HTML, and JavaScript.  • Used Spring Dependency Injection for injecting objects dynamically.  • Used Eclipse as IDE and SVN as Repository. Also used SAP Netviewer to compile some Java code in SAP environment.  • Involved in the Database design modeling and wrote the stored procedures and compiled into the oracle servers.  • Created HBase tables to store variable data formats of data coming from different portfolios.  • Used collections like arraylist while pulling data from database to store the data objects in the list.  • Involved in the migration of data from SQL server to Oracle Database.  • Wrote PL/SQL queries and Store Procedures.  • Used ANT to build and deployed the application in Weblogic Application server and in Linux /Solaris.    Environment: Core Java, JDK 1.5, J2EE, JSP, Html, Struts 2, Spring 3.0, Spring DI, Spring MVC, Spring JDBC Hibernate 3.0, JNDI, SVN, JMS, ANT, XML, XSLT, Weblogic 10, Eclipse, Web Services, HBase, Apache Axis 2, JavaScript, AJAX, PL/SQL, SQL server, Oracle10g Java Developer Coventry Health Care - Chicago, IL July 2011 to January 2014 Description: Coventry Health Care is writing server-side web services for their different health care products. Customer will choose different health care benefits out of the plan options available. The services will enable them to manage health insurance products, features, benefits and benefit values and attributes. Client interacts through web interface with web services written at back end to fetch data from database and select their plan benefits.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Worked on Spring integration with JSF.  • Worked on Spring application framework features IOC container and AOP.  • Worked on JSPs using JSF UI tags, injecting backing beans through spring.  • Configured faces-config.xml and Spring IOC.  • Developed screens which consist of jsf validators, jQuery, AJAX and JavaScript, CSS, HTML.  • Developed applications using Hibernate persistent framework, developed persistent classes, hibernate-mapping files .hbm.xml file, used hibernate query language.  • Worked on the Webservices classes and WSDL generation.  • Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection and integrated with ORM framework Hibernate.  • Developed and Deployed Web services - WSDL and SOAP for getting credit score information from third party.  • Used xstream for java xml binding.  • Used CVS, Perforce as configuration management tool for code versioning and release.  • Deployment on WebSphere Application Server 6.0.  • Designed and developed reporting module using Jasper Reports.  • Used Log4J to print the logging, debugging, warning, info on the server console.  • Involved in debugging and troubleshooting related to production and environment issues.  • Created Test cases, Junit test cases and tested the application thoroughly.  • Performed E2E Testing.    Environment: Java, JEE [Servlet, JSP], Data Structures, Eclipse, JBOSS, XML, JAXB, JSF 2.0, Spring, Hibernate, jQuery, Log4j, ANT, web services, Jasper, Junit, Web Sphere Application Server 6.0, and Oracle. Education Bachelor of Computer Science in Computer Science Beijing University of Post and Telecommunication - Beijing, CN Master of Computer Science in Computer Science Clemson University - Clemson, SC