Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - United Health Group, New Jersey New Jersey • Over 8+ years of professional software development experience, consulting for major financial and business institutions in the U.S. and India.  • Servlets, Subversion, RMI, JNDI, JMS, JSF, JBPM, EJB (Session Beans, MDB)  • Experience of enterprise level application development with Java centric technologies in the domain of Banking and Insurance, Healthcare.  • Extensive experience working in a Test-Driven Development and Agile-Scrum Development.  • Developed UI/UX and JEE applications on IDE's like Eclipse, Seam, Net beans, and J Builder, J Developer, RAD, Sublime Text.  • IBM's Rational Delivery Platform extensive experience with Spring framework of IBM Proprietary Framework with using tolls of Rational Clear Case & Quest with RUP Method.  • Extensive experience in Creating & Consuming Web Services in Maven Project /Dynamic Web Project/ EAR Project with SOAP 2.2/Axis 3.0, WSDL, JAXB, JAX-RPC SOAP JAX WS2.x, Restful JAX-RS, Jersey 1.8/1.9, Jackson, Spring 3.0.  • Extensive experience in PL/SQL and database server Firebird SQL.  • Extensive experience in using JSON, XML, XSL, XSLT, Crystal Reports, SOAP, WSDL, HTML and DHTML.  • Firm understanding of Agile (TDD) using Flex Unit and J Unit, logging using log4j, and debugging and profiling using the eclipse IDE.  • Experience with model 2 technologies using Spring MVC, EAD4J MVC, Spring Batch, data modelling and ORM using Hibernate persistence provider.  • Strong exposure to Web 2.0 client technologies usingJSP, JSTL, XHTML, DOM, CSS, JavaScript and AJAX.  • Strong experience in built Maven Based Projects and use POM file for create complete clean Project Documentation with POM file in Maven.  • Experienced in developing and deploying applications on Oracle Glassfish, BEA Web Logic, IBM Web Sphere, JBoss and Apache Tomcat servers.  • Experienced in database systems like Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g, MySQL, and MS SQL Server [ ] server to manage tables and created views, indexes, sequences, stored procedures, functions, and triggers for the fast retrieval and manipulation of data.  • Experienced writing Use cases, sequence diagrams and class diagrams with UML tools like Visio, Rational Rose for business modelling.  • Expert knowledge of, and strong hands on experience with AJAX frameworks (Ext-JS/DOJO) and JavaScript libraries.  • Hands on experience in building and deploying tools like ANT and MAVEN as well as version control using SVN/Subversion, Rational Clear Case, CVS and VSS.  • Experience with Frameworks like Spring, Distributed Architecture, Soir, SOA etc.  • Experienced in using Flex based Remote Object, SOAP based Web services & HTTP service.  • Experience in using testing Tools JUnit, Selenium, Cucumber/Gherkin.  • Experience using an Integrated Development Environment like Eclipse, RAD 7.5/8.5 for code development.  • Versatile team player with good communication, analytical, presentation and inter-personal skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer United Health Group, New Jersey August 2017 to Present Description:  UnitedHealth Group Inc. is a health care company with its headquarters in Minnesota. It offers a variety of health care services and products through United Healthcare and Optum.UnitedHealth Group also operates in information and technology-enabled health services business through Optum.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Full stack development based on JEE specifications and Spring Framework with MVC architecture.  • Developed using web based technologies such as Hibernate ORM and Web Services (REST /SOA /microservices).  • Implemented different design patterns such as singleton, Session Façade, Factory, MVC, Business delegate, session facade and DAO design patterns.  • Used JPA (Object Mapping for the backend data persistency).  • Worked with tracking tool JIRA on Agile Scrum performance estimation and capacity planning work with the project manager and product development teams to create and implement projects.  • Development of front end web pages using JSP2.0, JSON, Angular JS, JS Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and Spring TLD.  • Worked on cloud based applications implementing a service-oriented-architecture (SOA).  • Tested code using TDD approach to development which combines test-first development where you write a test before you write just enough production code to full fill that test and refactoring.  • Used LDAP and Microsoft active directory series and built interfaces for the same.  • Developed using Maven build scripts to automate the deployment to various Web Server.  • Configured Oracle WebLogic Server forms part of Oracle Fusion Middleware portfolio which supports Oracle, and other JDBC-compliant databases.  • Worked with Adobe Flex to create expressive and interactive interfaces.  • Oracle WebLogic Server Process Edition configuration also includes Business Process Management and Data Mapping functionality.  • Used GIT for source control and developed a logging component using Log4J to log messages and errors.  • Involved in resolving bugs post production and resolved performance issues and participated in code reviews.  • Worked on relational databases and wrote SQL scripts to manage the database.  • Involved in a full life cycle Object Oriented application development - Object Modeling, Database Mapping, GUI Design.  • Focused on Test Driven Development; thereby creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality before writing the functionality.  • Developed Functional Requirement Document based on users' requirement.  • Experienced with Flex framework for building and maintaining web applications.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4J and fixing the problems.    Environment: Java 8, JSP, JMS, AJAX, Log4j, jQuery, RESTful web services, JSON, XML, JAX-WS, Apache CXF, AngularJS, Spring, Hibernate, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, EJB, ANT, JUnit, ECLIPSE LUNA, GIT, and Oracle, MongoDB. Full Stack Java Developer Oracle,California March 2015 to August 2017 Description:  Oracle Corp. designs, develops, markets, and supports a diversified line of business software products. The company is organized into the following businesses: Software and Cloud, Hardware Systems and Services. Responsibilities:  • Developed new architectural design solutions, functional and technical requirement specifications, use cases, non-functional requirements and provide expertise to technical and functional efforts, teams, and projects with full stack development.  • Designed new UML diagrams through Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, Sequence, components, activity.  • Identified scenarios and strategies for performance testing and collaborate with test team on execution.  • Created SOA systems architecture and high-level design for scalable and high-performance enterprise applications.  • Established relationships and lead/direct technical development teams for SOA-based design, architecture, development, and testing.  • Created Architecture enhancements for Distributed JEE applications and legacy integration with Mainframes applications.  • Involved in the application development using Spring Core, MVC modules and Java web based technologies: such as, Servlets, JSP, Java Web Service (REST/SOAP based), WSDL.  • Worked on Backbone views with declarative event handling which connects it all to the existing API over a RESTful JSON interface.  • Implemented different design patterns such as singleton, business factory and J2EE design patterns such as Business delegate, session façade and DAO design patterns.  • Developed the HTTP based Web Service Client which calls up the existing web service to get the application related data which comes in XML format.  • Used Hibernate - Object Relational Mapping Tool for the backend data persistency.  • Created a spring container file for configuring Hibernate and to perform Dependency injection among all bean class involved in business logic operation.  • Performed estimation and capacity planning work with the project manager and product development teams to create and implement projects.  • Used Struts and JSTL tag libraries in the JSP pages.  • Executed all the web service test scenarios by using SOAPUI.  • Automated test cases with SOAP UI and Groovy scripting.  • Developed front end web pages using JSP2.0, JSON, Angular JS, CSS, JavaScript.  • Developed Maven build scripts to automate the deployment to various Web Servers.  • Developed WebSphere Portal products to give users a single point of access to the applications, services, information, and social connections they need.    Environment: UML, OOAD, Agile/SCRUM, GOF Patterns, SOA Patterns, EAI Patterns, RSA, MS Visio, Java 7, JSP, Droplets, jQuery, MySQL, Angular JS, JSON, Dynamo Servlets, JDBC, Struts1.1, ATG 9.0, XML, Tomcat, EJB, JMS, Oracle 10g, Linux, Maven, XML, Web Services (SOAP, Rest full), Soap UI, Splunk, Jenkins. Full Stack Java Developer America First Credit Union November 2013 to March 2015 Description: The project pertains to America First Credit Union's online banking system which performs all the transactions of credit card customer data with or without involving vendors or third parties. This initiative has been implemented in all the credit card application e-forms to reduce the risks of cross side scripting and hacking.  Responsibilities:  • Worked on gathering system requirements for the application, working with the business team to review the requirements in the software requirement specification document, architecture document followed by other phases of Software Development Life Cycle.  • Designed and developed systems based on JEE specifications and used Spring Framework with MVC architecture.  • Used Spring Roo Framework Design/Enterprise Integration patterns and REST architecture compliance for design and development of applications.  • Involved in the application development using Spring Core, Spring Roo, Spring JEE, Spring Aspects modules and Java web based technologies such as Web Service (REST /SOA /microservices) including microservices implementations and Hibernate ORM.  • Used LDAP and Microsoft active directory series for authorization and authentication services.  • Implemented different design patterns such as singleton, Session Façade, Factory, and MVC design patterns such as Business delegate, session façade and DAO design patterns.  • Used JPA - Object Mapping for the backend data persistency.  • Worked on Agile Scrum performance estimation and capacity planning work with the project manager and product development teams to create and implement projects.  • Used Struts and JSTL in the JSP pages.  • Tested the code using TDD approach to development which combines test-first development where you write a test before you write just enough production code to full fill that test and refactoring.  • Developed front end web pages using JSP2.0, JSON, jQuery, Angular JS, CSS, JavaScript and SPRING TLD.  • Developed Maven build scripts to automate the deployment to various Web Servers.  • Developed groovy script for automation test cases.  • Configured Tomcat server which gave users a single point of access to the applications, services, information and social connections they need.  • Wrote SQL scripts to manage databases.    Environment: Java, JSP, Tiles, Uniface, Soap Web Services, PL SQL, SDLC, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Oracle 11g, CVS, Windows XP, Eclipse, RAD (Rational Application Developer), Toad, SQL Developer, putty, WinSCP, Rallydev, Apache, Tomcat. Java/J2EE developer Essent Guaranty Inc - Winston-Salem, NC August 2011 to November 2013 Description: Essent Guaranty currently employs algorithmic solutions to aid its underwriting decisions for multiple lines of business. To improve Essent Guaranty's ability to better underwire insured risks and improve the efficiency of the business insurance underwriting operations.  Responsibilities:  • Participating in system design, planning, estimation and implementation.  • Involved in developing Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams and process flow diagrams for the modules using UML and Rational Rose.  • Developed the presentation layer using JSP,AJAX, HTML, XHTML, CSS and client validations using JavaScript.  • Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural Pattern using Spring Framework.  • Effective usage of J2EE Design Patterns Namely Session Facade, Factory Method, Command and Singleton to develop various base framework components in the application.  • Modified Account View functionality to enable display of blocked accounts details that have tags. This involved modifying beans, JSP changes and middle tier enhancements.  • Developed various EJBs (session and entity beans) for handling business logic.  • Developed Session Beans and DAO classes for Accounts and other Modules.  • Worked on generating the web services classes by using WSDL, UDDI and SOAP.  • Consumed Web Services using WSDL, SOAP and UDDI from third party for authorizing payments to/from customers.  • Involved in Units integration using JUnit, bug fixing, and User acceptance testing with test cases.  • Used CVS for version control and Maven as a build tool.    Environment: JDK, Servlets, JSP, Spring, HTML, XHTML, XSLT, JDBC, EJB, Oracle 10g, JBoss, Eclipse, Maven, Agile development process, WSDL, SOAP, UDDI, JAXB, CVS, PL/SQL, Rational ClearQuest, JUnit, Windows XP and Log4j Education Bachelor's Skills Eclipse, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jaxb, Jaxp, Jboss, Jms, Jsp, Jstl, Servlets, Struts, C++, Gui, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Json, Orm, Python Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages C, C++, Java 8(JSP, Servlets, JSTL, and other java related technologies), Python, R  Operating Systems Windows (10/8.1), Ubuntu, Mac  Scripting languages HTML, DHTML, XML, JavaScript, JSON, XML, XSL, XSLT, JSP, JSTL.  Databases Oracle, MySQL, MSSQL Server, Sybase, PostgreSQL, MongoDB.  IDE Eclipse, IntelliJ, NetBeans, IBM Rational Application Developer (RAD)  Messaging Technologies JMS, AMQP.  Version controls SVM, GitHub, RStudio, Spyder, Octave GUI, KNIME, Coggle.  Web Servers JBoss, WebLogic, WebSphere, Tomcat, Jetty, Apache  Frameworks  Spring (MVC, AOP, ORM, Web Service, DAO, Social, Security, etc.), Hibernate ORM 5.0.2, Bootstrap, Struts, Tiles, DWR (Direct Web Remoting)    Reporting Tools Jasper Reports, BIRT, Crystal Reports.  Other Tools JIRA, Confluence, Bamboo, Sonar, Fisheye, Taiga.io, GitHub, AEM.  Database Tools SQL Developer, DB Artisan, TOAD, MSSQL Server Management Studio  XML Technologies DOM, SAX, JAXP, JAXB, XML-RPC and XML Beans.