Java Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Full Stack Developer - People Plus Software Ann Arbor, MI • Over 7 years of Experience as an IT Professional working throughout the full project development, implementation, and deployment on Windows/Unix, using the JAVA/JEE technologies stack.  • Extensive experience with both core and advanced Java technologies including Java, XML, JavaScript, JEE, JSP, JDBC, JMS, JPA, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, JSF, Spring and Hibernate.  • Strong experience in front-end technologies including HTM, JavaScript, CSS, JSP and JQuery  • Experience implementing JAVA/JEE design patterns such as MVC, and factory. Business Delegate, Data Access Object, Front Controller.  • Experience with spring boot, REST Full API, SOAP Web services, Micro services, Jenkins.  • Expertise in Java/J2EE design patterns like Singleton, Model View Controller (MVC), Data Access Object (DAO) and core Java concepts like Collections, Multi-Threading, Serialization.  • Expert in development and maintenance through enterprise web-based application based on Java technologies using Java , J2EE, Spring, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, PCF, JSF, Hibernate, JPA , Java Beans, JMS, SQL,PL/SQL and JNDI.  • Experienced on latest version of object-oriented JavaScript frameworks like Angular.js, Node.JS, Backbone, Bootstrap, Ext JS, React JS.  • Exposure to API Management technologies like Apigee Edge.  • Experience in setting cluster in Amazon EC2 & S3 including the automation of setting & extending the clusters in AWS Amazon cloud.  • Strong hands-on experience using the MVC frameworks, spring and Hibernate.  • Hands-on experience with various application and web servers including IBM WebSphere, Tomcat Server with a wide variety of development tools including Eclipse, IBM RAD/RSA, and IntelliJ.  • Proficient in SQL having written stored procedures, triggers, DDL, DML, and transaction queries using development tools like TOAD, SQL Developer and SQL Navigator.  • Good knowledge of Spring Core, Spring batch, Spring security, Spring boot, Spring MVC and Spring integration with Hibernate and Struts technologies.  • Created RFP Micro service to provide RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Micro services.  • Designed and developed REST framework and Spring boot and used Bootstrap along with AngularJS in creating the Application.  • Used Eclipse IDE and Web Sphere application servers in development.  • Experience with version control using SVN, GIT, CVS, and error logging using Log4J.  • Good Experience of developing GUI based application using AWT, Swing, and Java Applets.  • Worked extensively on Java Collections API like ArrayList, HashSet, HashMap, LinkedList etc. Used Java concurrency package for concurrent access in multithreaded application calls. Work Experience Java Full Stack Developer People Plus Software - Ann Arbor, MI April 2018 to Present Project Description: IM3 Application  Customer used the application to generate purchase order and sales order when items are purchased from different vendors. The purchase order and Sales Order screens are designed using Angular JS, Spring MVC. I work on the web page development and maintenance. The application is deployed in Websphere Application Server and the back end database is DB2. I write MAVEN script for code build and deployment.  Customer has various data sources and external systems from where they get different files. Some of these files are structured data (CSV) and some are semi-structured in the form of JSON. The semi-structured data are feedback data coming from different social media channels like Facebook, Twitter etc. These files are loaded in our AWS S3 Bucket and they are loaded once every day using AWS Lambda function. Once files are loaded we get notification. The files are downloaded and we run our custom JAVA class to parse those files. We use Java file handling API to parse the CSV and extract the data and store them in MS SQL DB. These CSVs are transaction records for each day. For the JSON data we use Google GSON API to extract and load them to MS SQL DB. Once the tables are loaded we run queries on top of it for analytical processing. I used to connect Tableau with MS SQL DB for reporting and dashboard generation.  The output of some queries are extracted and loaded back to AWS S3 bucket. There are JUnit test classes corresponding to each Java program.SVN is used to for version controlling purpose.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Worked on Agile and Pair programming with respect to the successful development of sprints by tracking stories in JIRA and updating JIRA on day to day basis.  • Responsible for designing dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS.  • Worked on the MVC architecture of Angular JS in developing the Single Page Application (SPA), build the controllers and directives which are totally customized to meet the needs of the application.  • Used Spring Web MVC framework for the applying MVC Implementation to the web application.  • Ensure Traceability of business requirements to technical specifications, ensure any changes in initial scope- post-design, get proper architecture and design assessment.  • Implemented the Spring AOP (Aspect Oriented Programming) for Logging, declarative Transaction Management, creating and applying transaction advices and configuring the joint points.  • Involved in writing SQL, PL/SQL queries and stored procedures for the application in MS SQL.  • Responsible for creating web-based applications using React JS, Node.js, and Redux workflow. Build prototype for various required services such as Scheduling, Logging and Notification Service using third party Node JS based JavaScript library.  • Converted a monolithic app to microservices architecture using Spring Boot using 12-factor app methodology. Deployed, Scaled, Configured, wrote manifest file for various Microservices in PCF.  • Implemented client-side interface using React.js, flux pattern and Redux framework for SPA.  • Developed and enhanced middleware components using Collections, Generics, Object Serialization, and Multi-Threading using java. Util. Concurrent package and core java design patterns.  • Good knowledge of Spring Core, Spring batch, Spring security, Spring boot, Spring MVC and Spring integration with Hibernate and Struts technologies.  • Working with Jenkins, CI/CD pipeline to integrate and deploy the code in to the PCF Server.  • Developing Applications using latest Java/J2EE technologies such as Cassandra, Java 8, Junit.  • Extensively worked in designing and implementation of multi-tier applications using Java 8, J2EE, JDBC, JSP, HTML5, Spring Boot, AngularJS, Servlets, JavaBeans with Eclipse.  • Designed and developed REST framework and Spring boot and used Bootstrap along with AngularJS in creating the Application.  • Developed software's for AWS in Java 8 (using Spring Framework 5.0, MySQL 5.6, AWS Aurora, Lambda, API Gateway, S3, SNS, SQS, DynamoDB, EC2, EBS, Akamai WAF (web application firewall) and Apache Tomcat web server.)  • Extensively utilized containers like Docker to build a microservice based architecture using Spring Boot.  • Created RFP microservice to provide RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Micro services.  • Developed Use Cases, Sequence Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Design Artifacts  • Used Eclipse IDE and Web Sphere application servers in development.  • Written and debugged the ANT/Maven Scripts for building the entire web application.  • Development of DAO layer using Hibernate Template, JDBC Template  • Worked on AWS EC2 and S3 and Lambda functions.    Environment: Java (JDK 1.8), MAVEN, JSON, MS SQL DB, JUnit, Eclipse, Unix, SVN, JIRA, AWS S3, Angular JS, Spring MVC, Tableau, Toad, PCF, WebSphere application server 6.1. Java Developer Access health CT - Hartford, CT January 2016 to March 2018 Project Description: Customer Care Application  Access Health CT has a Customer Care application which is used to retrieve the data of the members for modification, updating and request processing. The application is based on Spring MVC, Spring Boot and Java. There are 2 major screens called PersonSearch and PersonDetails. These screens are used to retrieve customer details using some search criteria. I have worked on web page design using Angular JS, Spring MVC, Rest-API. I have designed different front end validation for the input fields. The application is deployed in Websphere Application Server. The backend database is DB2. I have written Java DAO classes and Spring Hibernate template for database access.    Responsibilities:  • Involved at different phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application alike Design, Requirements gathering, Analysis and Code development  • Developed the application based on MVC architecture using the J2EE design patterns and technologies  • Development of user interfaces using AJAX and JSPs.  • Experience in developing OOAD architecture and designing artifacts.  • Worked on all GUI related work, alignment, designing and coding.  • Worked on Spring Core, Spring batch, Spring security, Spring boot, Spring MVC and Spring integration with Hibernate and Struts technologies  • Designed and developed REST framework and Spring boot and used Bootstrap along with AngularJS in creating the Application.  • Deployed Spring Boot based micro services into Dockercontainer using Amazon EC2 container services.  • Used Bootstrap and AngularJS, React.js and Node.js in effective web design.  • Developed various web applications /web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, React JS, NodeJS. Designed various web concepts like security (OAuth, SiteMinder and OpenID), session controlling, storage.  • Developed SQL stored procedures and prepared statements for accessing and updating data from database.  • Implementation of Spring Framework for a common look in all the presentation views.  • Implementation of access privileged security for different front end views.  • Development and creation of Web Services using REST with JSON response type.  • Working with PCF application Server to deploy the apps into all kinds of environments.  • Usage of RAD IDE based on Eclipse in the code development of Action Classes, Spring Beans and JSP.  • Integrated spring MVC with Spring Hibernate DAO and Spring DI.  • Implementation of the version control by using SVN.  • Developed JUnit Test cases for DAO and Service Layer methods to accomplish TDD approach.  • Usage of Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  • Preparation of WAR files along with the supportive ANT scripts development to deploy J2EE components into the server.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSF, JDBC, XML, WSDL, AJAX, JSP, HTML, JavaScript, PCF, CSS, Log4J, JAXB, JUnit, LDAP, DB2, JSP, Hibernate, Websphere application server6.1 Java/J2EE Developer Australian Unity Health - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2012 to December 2014 Project Description: Reimbursement Tracking System  Australian Unity Health has a web application to monitor and check the status of the insurance claims. This application shows the status of claim processing and a customer can check the status whenever needed.  As a J2EE developer, I have worked on the claim status page which shows the status of each claim submitted by a customer. The web application is based on Spring MVC framework. I have designed different front end validations for the input fields. The application is deployed in WebSphere Application Server. The backend database is MS SQL. I have written Java DAO classes and Spring Hibernate template for database access.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the business components of the application using Spring IOC framework in a loosely coupled manner using interface programming.  • Implemented the Spring MVC framework for designing and developing the user interface  • Utilized JSP, JQuery, Servlets, HTML, Angular JS, CSS and JavaScript objects to design user interfaces.  • Involved in writing PL/SQL queries and stored procedures for the application in MS SQL.  • Developed and enhanced middleware components using Collections, Generics, Object Serialization, Concurrent package and core java design patterns.  • Used Spring ORM to integrate Spring Framework with hibernate and JPA.  • Developed RESTFUL web services using Spring REST Template.  • Written JUNIT test cases for each functionality.  • Used Eclipse IDE and Web Sphere application servers in development.  • Written and debugged the ANT Scripts for building the entire web application.  • Coordinated with QA and Business teams to resolve the identified issues through Quality Center.  • Implemented exception and Log4j framework.    Environment: Java/J2EE, Spring, Spring MVC, jQuery, JSON, Angular JS, MS SQL, JUnit, WebSphere, Eclipse, Unix, CVS, JIRA, ANT, Hibernate, Toad. Additional Information J2EE Technology Java Beans, Servlets, Angular JS, JSP, JDBC, JNDI.  Architecture & Framework Client-Server, MVC, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate.  Database Oracle 11g, SQL server 2008, MySQL.  IDE Eclipse, RAD  GUI HTML, XML, JavaScript, CSS, JQuery.  Query Languages SQL, PL/SQL.  Programming Language Core Java APIs (I/O, Thread, Collection)