Java/J2EE Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/J2EE Developer - Cisco San Jose, CA • 7+ years of experience in Requirements gathering, Designing, Development, implementation and maintenance of software applications using JAVA/J2EE Technologies.  • Good working experience in Design, Development and implementation of several J2EE frameworks like (Model View Controller) Struts, spring, hibernate.  • Excellent in designing the front-end pages using scripting languages like Angular JS, JSP, HTML, Ajax, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and its libraries.  • Hands on experience in developing applications using JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, SQL Server 2008/2005 and Oracle 8i/9i/10g in Banking and Financial business domains.  • Experience in developing web applications on MVC based frameworks like spring, Spring IOC, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, and Spring MVC.  • Experience in developing Web Services using JAX-WS.  • Experience in integrating the internal security model into new projects with Spring Batch, Spring Micro Services and Spring Boot, Pivotal Cloud Foundry and NetFlix Eureka.  • Having experience in Cloud Computing environment like Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Expertise in Back-end/server side java technologies such as: Web services, Java persistence API (JPA), Java Messaging Service (JMS), RabitMQ, Java Database Connectivity (JDBC), Java Naming and Directory Interface (JND).  • Experience in development of REST and SOAP based web services using AXIS, WSDL, UDDI, XML, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, JAXB, JAX-RPC, AJAX technologies and Jersey frameworks.  • Experience in Spring-Boot micro services and Hibernate ORM.  • Strong Knowledge of Restful API Web services  • Expertise in implementation of J2EE Technologies: JSP, JTS, Servlets, JSF, JSTL, EJB transaction implementation, JMS, Struts, Swing, Hibernate, Java Beans, JDBC, XML, Web Services, JNDI, Swing, Serialization and Externalization.  • Experience in AWS Solutions using EC2, S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, 0Dynamo DB and Auto Scaling Groups.  • Strong database designing skills using SQL Server 2008/2005/2000 and experience in creating tables, views, developing T-SQL queries, stored procedures, functions and triggers.  • Excellent background in developing applications using Java/J2EE Technologies on BEA WebLogic Application Server, WebSphere Application Server (WAS) and Tomcat.  • Expertise in Oracle PL/SQL Procedures, Functions, Packages, Views, Indexes, Sequences, Functions, Triggers.  • Strong experience on various development environments like IRAD, Eclipse, and WSAD.  • Experience in open frameworks like Struts and reusable Business component design and development (EJB).  • Excellent skills in problem solving and delivering realistic and practical solutions.  • Experienced in Web Analytics implementation, custom report creation, data collection, report analysis and process improvement.  • Self-starter, independent, motivated, and enthusiastic team player with excellent analytical, written, communication and interpersonal skills. Work Experience Java/J2EE Developer Cisco - San Jose, CA February 2018 to Present Cisco Designs, manufactures and sells Internet protocol (IP)-based networking and other products related to the communications and information technology (IT) industry, and provides services associated with these products and their use. The Company provides a line of products for transporting data, voice, and video within buildings, across campuses, and around the world. Its products are designed to transform how people connect, communicate and collaborate. Cisco Systems, Inc.'s products, which include primarily routers, switches, and products that the Company refers to as its technologies, are installed at enterprises, public institutions, telecommunications companies, commercial businesses and personal residences. In January 2009, the Company acquired Richards-Zeta Building Intelligence, Inc. In May 2009, the Company purchased Tidal Software, Inc. In May 2009, the Company also purchased Pure Digital Technologies Inc.    Responsibilities  • Developed the JAVA application based on the Service Oriented Architecture.  • Involved in Requirements gathering, Analysis and Documentation.  • Participated in Change Requirements and Bug fixing.  • Created and injected spring services, spring controllers and DAOs to achieve dependency injection and to wire objects of business classes.  • Participated in EAD and SDLC and Agile Methodology and develop new code participate in structured code reviews Generate Technical documentation provide quality assurance and user acceptance Test support and banking experience and Change Requirements and Bug fixing.  • Designed User interface using HTML, Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), XML and java script.  • Generated Report Forms by using XSL, XSLT, and XSL-FO transformations.  • Used Spring Inheritance to develop beans from already developed parent beans.  • Worked on Spring Quartz functionality for scheduling tasks such as generating monthly reports for customers and sending those mails about different policies.  • Defined Action Forms, Model Components using Struts MVC framework providing very clean division between controllers, flexibility with the use of interfaces and providing thin web layer over business layer.  • Developed various generic JavaScript functions used for validations.  • Used DOM parser for validating the XML files against their respective XML schemas.  • XPATH expressions are used to extract data from XML files  • Used HTTP Request and SOAP Web service to post XML Data to the End Client.  • Developed Web Services clients to consume those Web Services as well other enterprise wide Web Services.  • Exposed the Web Services to the client applications by sharing the WSDL's.  • Involve in writing SQL queries and database development required creation of new tables, PL/SQLstored procedures, functions, views, indexes and constraints, triggers and required SQL tuning to reduce the response time in the application.  • Worked closely with QA team and fixed QA bugs as well as production issues with a quick turnaround time.  • Used Eclipse, JDeveloper to develop and debug application code.  • Used Ant and Maven based scripts to build and deploy the applications on the Server.  • Used Log4j utility to generate run-time logs.  • SVN and Tortoise SVN were used for project management and version management.  • Developed Functional Requirement Document like Unit Test case Doc, Analysis Doc, Technical Design Doc, based on users' requirement for the business modules for future references and updates.    Environment: J2EE, Spring framework, Spring MVC, Servlets 2.3, JDBC, AJAX, Web services , SOAP, XML, Altova XML Spy, JQuery, JavaScript, Oracle 10g, Websphere 7.0, Design Patterns, JDveeloper, SVN, Tortoise SVN, Apache Maven, ANT, Windows XP, JUnit, HtmlUnit, XSLT, HTML/DHTML. Java/J2EE Developer Sprint - Overland Park, KS April 2017 to January 2018 Sprint Synaptic Storage as a Service is a web services-based storage solution that easily scales up and down to any size you need and allows you to pay only for the storage you use. It provides elastic capacity on demand with no commitments, minimums, or limits and allows access to your stored data from virtually anywhere and anytime.    Responsibilities  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development and understanding of business requirements and implement the process using Agile (Scrum) methodology  • Generated the use case diagrams, Activity diagrams, Class diagrams and Sequence Diagrams in the design phase using Star UML tool  • Developed various helper classes needed following Core Java multi-threaded programming and Collection classes  • Developed the User Interface using JSP, Spring MVC frameworks, JQuery, AngularJS, Backbone JS, Node JS. Used AJAX and JavaScript for Server side/client side validation  • Prototype designs and development in HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript  • Used JQuery, Ajax for service calls on pages to interact with the server for information  • Used Spring frame work AOP features and JDBC module features to persist the data to the database for few applications. Also used the Spring IOC feature to get hibernate session factory and resolve other bean dependencies  • Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML, file that contains declarations and business classes are wired-up to the frontend managed beans using Spring IOC pattern  • Implemented the application using Spring IOC, Spring MVC Framework, Spring Batch and handled the security using Spring Security  • Involved in integrating JAX-RS into Spring Boot application  • Developed the persistence layer using Hibernate Framework by configuring the 1:1/1: M /M: Mmappings in hibernate mapping files and created DAO and PO  • Created RESTful web services interface to Java-based runtime engine and accounts  • Used SOAP to Implement Web Services and Consumed and published XML Web Services in the application  • Involved in using JMS Queues and JMS topics for one-to-one and one-to-may communication in the application  • Used Apache camel integration for routing and transforming the data between two Applications using HTTP protocol  • Implementation of web services in Java, used to orchestrate outbound and inbound web services and processes on ESB (Enterprise Service Bus)  • Implemented the various services using micro services architecture in which the services work independently  • Developed an API to write XML documents from a database. Utilized XML and XSL Transformation for dynamic web-content and database connectivity  • Involved in designing and developing the JSON, XML Objects with MySQL and NoSQL database likeMongoDB  • JSF ( Java Server Faces) was used for to simplify development integration of user interfaces and the operation on the values they (UI) hold  • Installed, secured, and configured AWS (Amazon Web Services) cloud servers with Tomcat, MySQL,Apache and Amazon AWS virtual servers (Linux)  • Implemented service methods and SQL queries, PL/SQL to interact with the Oracle DBMS  • Called Stored Produces in Oracle using Callable Statements in JDBC  • Performed deployment of applications on IBM WebSphere Application Server  • Responsible for Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) process implementation using Jenkins along with UNIX Shell scripts to automate routine jobs  • Development carried out under Eclipse Integrated Development Environment (IDE)  • Actively used the defect tracking tool JIRA to create and track the defects during QA phase of the project  • Used GIT to maintain the version of the files and took the responsibility to do the code merges from branch to trunk and creating new branch when new feature implementation starts  • Used DAO pattern to retrieve the data from database  • Developed test cases using Junit and developed the build scripts using Maven    Environment: SDLC, Agile, Star UML, Core Java, JSP, Spring MVC, JQuery, AngularJS, Backbone JS, Node JS, AJAX, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JDBC, Spring IOC, Spring Batch, Spring Security, Spring Boot, XML, JAX-RS, Hibernate, DAO, SOAP, JMS, Apache camel, ESB, JSON, MySQL, MongoDB, JSF, AWS, Tomcat, Amazon AWS, PL/SQL, IBM WebSphere, Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD), Jenkins, Eclipse, JIRA, GIT, Junit, Maven. Java Developer CNA - Chicago, IL January 2016 to March 2017 CNA is an insurance organization offering broad range of insurance products and insurance-related services. This project provides insurance to small businesses in an unpredictable business environment. The project offers online insurance quote forms to the costumer. This helps register customers to buy insurance online. It allows customers to check policy information, direct bill status, and also to report a claim online.    Responsibilities  • Created user-friendly GUI interfaces and Web pages using HTML and DHTML embedded in JSP, JSF.  • JavaScript was used for the client side validations.  • Used the JNDI for Naming and directory services.  • Designed and developed Model Components - Action Form Bean, Controller Components - Action Classes, Action Mapping.  • Used Hibernate framework for backend development and Spring dependency injection for middle layer development.  • Managed Object Persistence, Data retrieval using Hibernate, Spring Framework with Oracle 10g.  • Implemented Web services using SOAP protocol over HTTP.  • Used Web sphere application server to deliver a new class of enterprise applications that enhance business interactions and transactions.  • JPA is used to manage relational data in application.  • Written database objects like Triggers, Stored Procedures in SQL.  • Interacted with the users and documented the System  • Tested Web services using SOAP UI.  • Created interactive web applications for the client side using SOA.    Environment: JDK 1.4, J2EE, JSP 2.0, JDBC 4.0, HTML, EJB 3.1, Servlets, Rational Rose, UML, Hibernate 3.1, JDBC, Spring 2.0, CVS, Oracle 10g. Java Developer Molina Healthcare - Long Beach, CA October 2013 to December 2015 Molina Healthcare offers Medicare Advantage plans designed to meet the needs of individuals with Medicare or both Medicaid and Medicare coverage. Molina Medicare plans offer comprehensive, quality benefits and programs including access to a large selection of doctors, hospitals and other health care providers at little or no out-of-pocket cost.    Responsibilities  • Implemented Struts MVC design pattern and front controller pattern to this project.  • Developed user interface by creating at least one webpage for each component using Struts web MVC and Action Servlet as front controller for this application.  • Developed Action Class components for performing business process execution and involved in configuration of struts configuration specific xml file.  • Developed SCM by using the JSP/HTML like one form for each functionality user interface, standard validations using the JavaScript, Servlets used as the controllers for the business logic and business logic using JDBC, XML parsing techniques etc. using MVC.  • Developed SingleSignOn (SSO) functionality, through which we can run SCM from Oracle Applications.  • Involved in developing the Routings and configured Routing Program as scheduled the concurrent request.  • Developed Server-Side components for the business services for creating Items, BOM, Sourcing Rules, and substitute.  • Involved in raising the Notifications to Oracle Users through Mailing Concept for intimating to start the next process using workflow.  • Extensively worked on Oracle for writing complex queries in the business logic layer. Used joins, debugging the SCM related packages and customization.  • Extensively worked on creating the setups for Organizations, Templates, Concurrent Requests, Cross Reference Types, User Creations, Assigning responsibilities, creating value sets, Descriptive Flex Fields etc. in Oracle Applications.    Environment: Java, JDBC, Servlets, Struts, JSP, Hibernate, Java Mail API, AJAX, HTML, XML, ANT, Log4J, CVS, RAD, Putty, Oracle 9i/10g, Web Sphere. Java Developer Foursoft July 2011 to August 2013 Involved in product development for logistics workflow systems for several groups in National Network Systems. It is an ERP system involving logistics.    Responsibilities  • Followed Agile SCRUM methodology and used Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in spring framework using Dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IoC).  • Involved in development of Debit Memo module using JSPs and Servlets.  • Developed Object -- Relational (O/R) mapping using Hibernate 3.0 .Developed Data Access Object (DAO) persistence layer using Hibernate 3.0.  • Involved in development of WebServices using JAX-WS 2.1 to get data from the SAP System.  • Used Tomcat Application Server 5.5 for development purpose.  • Used Oracle SQL Developer 1.2.0 for Oracle 10g for running queries to confirm the results from the application.  • Involved in writing SQL queries and stored procedures for the application in Oracle.  • Worked on code-merge, code integration and module integration. Involved in monitoring the defects and assigning it to the concerned.  • Used JUnit for Unit Testing and Clover for code coverage.  • Used CVS as Version Control System for the application.  • Provided support to the testing team and also involved in the Bug Fixing.  • Deployed the application on to IBM WebSphere 6.1 in UNIX environment IBM AIX 5.1.0.3. Tested the application after making the necessary configuration.    Environment: EJB, Hibernate 3.0, Spring 2.0, JSP 1.2, Java Swing, Servlets 2.1, MQ Series, XML, SOAP, WSDL, JavaScript, UML, HTML, CVS, Log4j, Junit, WebSphere App server 6.1, WSAD 5.1.2, SQL Server 2008. Education Bachelor's Skills Ajax (4 years), Ant (3 years), Application server (4 years), Cvs (5 years), Java (7 years), java script. (7 years), Jdbc (5 years), Jsp (6 years), Junit (4 years), Model view controller (4 years), Model-view-controller (4 years), Mvc (4 years), Oracle (7 years), Servlets (6 years), Soap (5 years), Sql (5 years), Struts (3 years), User interface (5 years), Websphere (4 years), Xml (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages: C, C++, Java, SQL, PL/SQL.  Tools and Framework:  Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Web Flow, Spring IOC, Spring AOP,  Spring Security, JSF, Junit, SOAP UI, JReport, Rational Rose, RabitMQ, Spring Boot.    Build Tools: ANT, Vagrant, Maven, Docker and Jenkins.  Version Control: Tortoise SVN, CVS and GIT.  Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, JSON Restful, AngularJS, AJAX, NodeJS.  J2SE/J2EE Technologies: Java, J2EE, RMI, Sockets, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JMS, Java Beans, JSTL, Jakarta Struts, JSF, EJB, Spring, Hibernate, JTA, JNDI, JPA, JMS.  Methodologies: Agile, Test Driven Development, Waterfall.  Databases: Oracle, SQL-Server, MySQL server, MS SQL, IBM DB2, MongoDB, NoSQL, Cassandra.  Web/Application Servers: Apache Tomcat, IBM WebSphere, Web logic Application server, JBOSS, Camel.  XML Technologies: XML, XSL, DOM, SAX, DTD, XQuery, XSD and XSLT.  IDE /Tools: Eclipse, IntelliJ, Spring Tool Suite(STS), RAD, Adobe Dreamweaver.  Testing Tools / Others: JUnit, Mockito, Soap UI, SLF4J, Log4j and JIRA.  Platforms: Windows, Linux and Unix.  Web Services: SOAP, Microservices, JAX-RPC, WSDL, JAX-RS JAX-WS, UDDI, JAX-B, CFX, Restful API, AWS.  Cloud Technologies: AWS EC2, S3, RDS.