Contract Wrangler Contract Wrangler • Having 6+ years of IT experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of Enterprise Applications in the Client/Server environment as a FULL STACK developer using Java/J2ee in Client-Server, 3-tier and n-tier applications.  • Experience in all aspects of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including requirements analysis, design specifications, code development, code integration, testing, and deployment using Object Oriented Analysis and Design with Core Java/J2EE.  • Expertise in JAVA/J2EE technologies like Struts, Spring, Hibernate, HTML/HTML5, CSS, JSP, EJB, JDBC, Servlets, MVC, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, Eclipse, Apache Tomcat, Subversion, Clear case and AngularJS.  • Extensive knowledge & good experience on Java Application Development, Distributed Applications, Object Oriented Applications, and Internet/Intranet based Database Applications.  • Having extensive GUI design development capabilities for different applications using HTML5, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, XML, ExtJS and AngularJS.  • Expertise in the implementation of Core concepts Java, J2EE Technologies: JSP, Servlets and frameworks like Spring MVC, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Data, Spring Mail, spring validation, Spring JDBC, Hibernate.  • Expertise in Web Front End Technologies Spring 4.0, JavaScript, Java Server JQuery, Ajax Angular 2.0, HTML, CSS.  • Experience using different RDBMS (MySQL, Oracle and MS SQL Server) and REDIS cache.  • Expertise in the implementation of Core concepts Java, J2EE Technologies: JSP, Servlets and frameworks like Spring MVC, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring WS, Spring Data, Spring Mail, spring validation, Spring JDBC, Hibernate.  • Extensive experience using Java technologies: Core Java, Multithreading, Design patterns, Collections, JDBC, JSP, JNDI, Servlet 4.0, JMS- (Active MQ, Rabbit MQ) spring.  • Experience with messaging systems like Kafka, Kafka event sourcing.  • Experience using Hibernate, Mybatis or other Object Relational Mapping framework  • Expertise in developing highly interactive rich Web UI using HTML, JavaScript, CSS, JQuery, Ajax, Angular2.0, Angular 4.0 Node JS, JSF2.0, Bootstrap, TypeScript.  • Experience with and solid understanding of Microservices.  • Experience in developing Oracle database schemas, tables, procedures and permissions.  • Extensive experience in Design, Development and implementation of Model-View-Controller (MVC) (spring, Struts, ORM Frameworks)  • Experience in developing a web application using Angular 2.  • Experience using Java, Scala and Clojure to build RESTful Web Services.  • Exposure to modern software practices like PCF, TDD, CI/CD, paired programming, XP, BDD with Agile experience.  • Experience in XML, Web Services using SOAP, XML-RPC, JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, and Restful and also in Apache Camel.  • Experience with PCI, PII compliance and Mutual Authentication.  • Demonstrate ability to work in a fast pace, agile software development environment having close interaction with technical and product owners.  • Experience using SAFe (Scaled Agile Framework)  • Well experienced in Core Java - asynchronous programming, multithreading, collections and a few design patterns.  • Extensive knowledge of XML based standards and protocols (such as WSDL and SOAP), SOA (Service oriented Architecture), Development of XSD schemas and implementing SOAP web services.  • Experience in using frameworks like Struts, Struts validator framework, Hibernate and OR-mapping, spring, build tools like ANT, MAVEN and logging framework Log4J.  • Expertise in Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) using Unified Modeling Language (UML)  • Database experience with knowledge of backend data stores with Postgre SQL.  • Proficient experience in using the databases such as MS SQL Server, Oracle and able to write stored procedure, functions, triggers, DDL, DML SQL queries.  • Good knowledge and experience with multiple Servers like IBM Web Sphere, Web Logic server, Apache Tomcat, Jboss.  • Knowledgeable with RDBMS concepts like writing SQL Queries. Working experience of Relational DBMS like MySQL, Apache Solr, Elastic Search, Oracle SQL PL/SQL, SQL Server (MS SQL), DB2 and NoSQL DBMS like MongoDB, Coherence/Hazel cast and Oracle Performance Tuning.  • Experience with Continuous Integration/Continuous Deployment using Maven, Jenkins.  • Expertise in using version control systems such as CVS, SVN and GIT.  • Expertise in the implementation of Core concepts of Java, J2EE Technologies: JSP, Servlets, EJB transaction implementation (CMP, BMP, Message-Driven Beans), Java Beans, JDBC, XML, RMI, Web Services, Multi-Threading etc  • Experience in Azure, AWS and Cloud Deployment.  • Experience in using various Amazon Web Services (AWS) Components like EC2 for virtual servers, S3.  • Experience in using Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF), 12-factor app, Microservices Architecture, API Management like APIGEE Edge.  • Experience in working with AWS (Amazon Web Services), EC2, RDS, Dynamo DB, S3, EMR, Cloud Formation Templates  • Strong working knowledge on Tomcat 6, Web logic 9.2 and Eclipse 3.2.  • Microservices have been built using Boot, Netflix OSS, spring cloud and deploying to AWS Cloud.  • Experience in migration of Java apps to AWS cloud.  • Hands-on development of Web services in both SOAP-based and RestFul based implementations.  • Good working knowledge of NoSQL Database, MongoDB, Groovy, Grails, GORM, PostgreSQL, NodeJS, AngularJS 2+, Browser Stack, etc.  • Executing test cases and reporting defects, defining severity and priority for each defect.  • Logging defects and monitoring till closure using JIRA  • Worked with React JS components, Redux Forms, Events, Router.  • Worked on Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) such as Apache Axis web services, uses SOAP, WSDL.  • Good experience with Operating Systems like Windows XP/ Vista/7 and partially on UNIX.  • Excellent team player, very dynamic, flexible with positive attitude and excellent learning skills. Work Experience Contract Wrangler Contract Wrangler - San Mateo, CA June 2018 to Present Full Stack Java Developer    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for writing J2EE compliant Java code for application development effort which involved working with JSP, Servlets, JDBC, XML, EJB, etc.  • Involved in the development of a portal called Microsite using Spring boot framework.  • Implemented client side Interface using React JS for JavaScript templating, function binding, creating quick indexes.  • Created custom filter in React.JS in the application.  • Used services to read data from remote server using React.JS  • Used React.js library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application.  • Designed and developed the application using AGILE-SCRUM methodology.  • Implemented features like logging, user session validation using Spring-AOP module.  • Upgraded the UI screens in the application to single page UI using React JS, HTML5 and CSS3.  • Used Postman with JSON to test the request and response of the application.  • Design and Development of Objects using Object Oriented Design in Java.  • Created sequence diagrams, collaboration diagrams, class diagrams, usecases and activity diagrams using Rational Rose for the Configuration, Cache & logging Services.  • Preparing the migration document for migrating application from Struts to spring and Responsive Web Designing (RWD) of the application.  • Worked on XML Technologies like XML Parsers, JAXB for binding data to Java objects.  • Developed the Spring AOP Programming to configure logging for the application.  • Implemented JMS for notifications and testing with JUnit, Mock cases.  • Developed the application using React JS, spring, HTML, Bootstrap, CSS and JavaScript.  • Created and Implemented MicroServices using spring boot, REST, JSON.  • Extensively used Maven to build the application and deploy on Embedded Tomcat Server.  • Configured session timeout with Spring Boot in server side and implemented auto logout Functionality.  • Involved in creating and Deployment of REST API and Micro Services in Java J2EEE using Spring Boot.  • Node.js is used to develop server side applications.  • Used React JS as the development framework to build a single-page application.  • Involved in SPA (Single Page Web Applications) using RESTFUL web services plus Ajax and React JS.  • Participated in development of a well responsive single page application using React JS framework, JavaScript, and jQuery in conjunction with HTML5, CSS3 standards, with front-end UI team.  • Involved in creating a reusable component using React JS for DOM manipulation.  • Develop various screens for the front end using React JS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and Redux libraries.  • Worked extensively on Web Services (SOAP&REST), XML, JMS and Spring Controller.  • Used Spring framework for the MVC implementation with spring for DI and Hibernate as ORM tool for database communication.  • Extensively used Maven to build the application and deploy on Embedded Tomcat Server.  • Maintained source code in GIT Repository.  • Used Log4j for logging to trace the application log messages which is used for debugging.  • Designed various tables required for the project in Oracle database.  • Prepared JUnit and Integration test cases and integrated with Jenkins.  • Reviewed the code for ensuring adherence to Java coding standards.  • Used JIRA for writing user stories and raising defects in a defined sprint.  • Develop the changes using JSTL, JQuery, JCP, JSP, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring JDBC, Web services Configure beans in spring configuration file with Spring IOC, Spring AOP concepts.    Environment: Java 1.8, JSP, JQuery, JSON, Elastic, Spring Boot, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring ORM, React JS, Node.JS, Microservices, XML, SOAP Web Services, JMS, Agile, XPATH, Hibernate, Maven, GIT, Oracle, Tomcat, Log4j, GIT, JIRA, Oracle, Windows/Linux. Full Stack Java Developer Centene Corporation - St. Louis, MO September 2017 to May 2018 Responsibilities:  • Reviewing Business Requirements, Functional Specifications and creating Detailed Design documents for development.  • Used AWS to build Java applications that work with Amazon S3, EC2, EMR, Dynamo DB, RDS, IAM, Elastic Bean Stalk, VPC, Route 53 and SQS.  • Implemented MVC architecture application using spring and created Lambda function in AWS using Spring Framework.  • MVC framework for the back-end while the front-ends were built using the Blueprint CSS Framework and HTML along with JQuery and AngularJS framework.  • End-to-end web application development with Ruby and the Ruby on Rails.  • Wrote Rspec and Cucumber tests in the application.  • Participated actively in unit testing, integration testing and acceptance testing of the system.  • Practiced Test-Driven Development with RSpec and RSpec 2 as well as Behavior Driven Development with Cucumber.  • Extensively used MVC, Factory, Delegate and Singleton design patterns.  • Used Spring Framework at Business Tier and also spring's Bean Factory for initializing services.  • Implemented the Application using Spring MVC Framework.  • Configured the Web Logic handler for the Apache Web Server to serve static files (html, images and css)  • Extensively used Spring IOC module to perform the bean dependency injection in various XML files that compose the entire web application.  • Developed various Custom DAOs using spring's Hibernate DAO support to persist the records from suitable tables in the database.  • Developing presentation layer with JSPs, HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, Spring Form tags, Tiles, JSTL tags etc.  • Web application development for backend system using AngularJS with cutting edge HTML5 and CSS3 techniques.  • Identifying the problem areas by using elastic search Kibana with Logstash to import .csv files. Using Solr over Lucene index provided a full text search for analysis and quantification.  • Used Core Java concepts covering Multithreading and collections.  • JQuery & Ajax are used intensely for producing responsive User Interface.  • Developed SQL Statements as well as PL/SQL Stored Procedures for searching contractors depending on Selection Criteria.  • Worked with React JS components, Redux Forms, Events, Router.  • Used Ajax, JSON to send request to the server to check the functionality of the websites.  • Added Dynamic Functionality by creating and dispatching Action Creators that deployed Actions.  • Maintained STATES in the store and dispatched the ACTIONS using Redux.  • Deployed Spring Boot based Microservices Docker and Amazon EC2 container using AWS admin console.  • Developed message notification system using Active MQ to notify the changes and update across the internal client apps.  • Designed and developed Rest Services using Java, spring, Spring Boot, RESTful, JPA, Hibernate.  • Developed Servlets for Document Upload, Image Streaming and Caching the data.  • Involved in integrating spring with Hibernate and delegated the persistence operations using Hibernate Template.  • Spring Boot Micro services were developed with microservice architecture using REST and Apache Kafka.  • Developed Contract first WebServices using Spring-WS to communicate with Database Tables.  • Developed functional components using different concepts of core java like Multi-threading and Collections.  • Worked on Camel-based integration middle-ware solution for Provisioning Services by design and Implementation of business logic and data processing routes using Apache Camel.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Components.  • Wrote client side and server side validations using Struts Validators and Java Scripts Validations.  • Used AngularJS to create maintainable and testable single page application.  • Involved in Unit Testing, Integration Testing, and System Testing.  • Developing the UI screens using HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, TypeScript and Ajax.  • Used Web services - WSDL and SOAP for getting credit card information from third party.  • Developed JavaScript validation for client side validations. Performed Code reviews and code fixes.  • Developed user interfaces using JSPs, HTML, XHTML, DHTML, CSS, Java Script, JSP Custom Tags and AJAX.  • Used AngularJS markup and expressions.  • Developing Spring MVC Controllers for handling of web requests from the presentation layer by use of URL Handler Mapping.  • Built MicroServices using spring boot with continuous deployment and continuous integration using Jenkins.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Core Java, Springs, JSP, Hibernate, Struts, AJAX, CSS, JDBC, Eclipse, Web logic 10.x, Web Services, AngularJS, Maven, SOAP, spring boot, Active MQ, Oracle, Kafka, Typescript, Apache, Spring MVC, ANT, Jenkins, Windows 2007, SOA, Camel, Maven, JQuery, AJAX, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS. Full Stack Java Developer Conduent, Kentucky - NC April 2016 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  • Implemented and integrated Spring Framework with Struts.  • Worked on spring framework for dependency injection, transaction management and AOP.  • Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection and integrated with the Struts Framework and Hibernate.  • Designed and coded Business Classes using Spring IOC and AOP features.  • Created connections to database using Hibernate session Factory, using Hibernate APIs to retrieve and store data to the database with Hibernate transaction control.  • Involved development of front-end components using JSP, JavaScript, and Java.  • Designed and developed all components JSP, controller, spring configuration, and DAO and Hibernate configuration for various modules.  • Interpreted and manipulated spring and hibernate configure files.  • Developed and Refracted the Action Servlets and JSPs using Struts following MVC architecture.  • Used the JNDI for Naming and directory services.  • Used Hibernate framework for back end development and spring dependency injection for middle layer development.  • Used Core Java (Collections, Multithreading, Concurrency) while working on various applications.  • Design and developed Web services (SOAP) client using AXIS to send service requests to Web services.  • Web UI development using JSP, CSS and JavaScript.  • Design and Development of User Interface using Struts tag libraries  • Developed User- Interface screens involving Servlets, JSP, JavaScript and XML DOM parser.  • Used JSON as response type in REST services.  • Implementation of XSLT processing on server with JSP and WebSphere.  • Wrote Database objects like Triggers, Stored procedures in SQL.  • Used Spring MVC framework controllers for Controllers part of the MVC.  • Application was designed and developed using the Spring framework  • Implemented various Java design patterns like Front Controller, Service Locator, Business Delegate and Data access Object, Factory Pattern, Session Façade, etc.  • Created user-friendly GUI interface and Web pages using HTML and DHTML embedded in JSP.  • Managed Object Persistence, Data retrieval using Hibernate, Spring Framework with SQL Server as backend.  • Using OOAD Technology classes are designed in UML with the help of Rational Rose tool.  • Develop UML diagrams like use case, sequence, class diagrams and design documents.  • Used ANT scripts to build the application and deployed the application on the application server.    Environment: Java, EJB, Struts, Core Java, AJAX, Hibernate, Spring, JSP, Servlets, JMS, XML, SOAP, WSDL, JDBC, JavaScript, UML, HTML, CVS, Log4J, JUnit, Rational Rose, Oracle, UNIX. JAVA/J2EE Developer Smith & Nephew - Memphis, TN August 2015 to March 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the analysis, design, and development and testing phases of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) using agile development methodology.  • Implementing Servlets, JSP and Ajax to design the user interface.  • Used JSP, Java Script, HTML, and CSS for manipulating, validating, customizing, error messages to the User Interface.  • Maintained the existing code based developed in spring and Hibernate framework by incorporating new features and fixing bugs.  • Designed and developed all the user interfaces using JSP, Servlets and spring framework.  • Created an XML configuration file for Hibernate for Database connectivity.  • Developed custom controllers for handling the requests using the spring MVC controllers.  • Developed Client Side Validations using Java Script and server side validations using Struts validation framework.  • Extensively used the JSP in the view side of MVC.  • Used Struts tag libraries, JSTL and created web interfaces using JSP technology.  • Developed the dynamic User Interface using JSP utilizing Custom Tag Libraries, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Developed a web-based reporting for monitoring system with HTML and Tiles using Struts framework.  • Expertise in developing integration services in SOA by offering Web Services based on XML communication on SOAP Layer.  • Used the RAD for creating and deploy the application on IBM Web sphere Application Server.  • Incorporated JUnit into the code to do the unit testing around the developed module.  • Used JDBC connection and access database procedures.    Environment: J2EE, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, XML, JAXP, SOA, Servlets, Spring Framework, Struts Framework, JSP, SWIFT, EJB, JMS, RAD, Windows XP, 2007. Java/UI Developer Hyderabad, Telangana June 2013 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in complete SDLC management - Requirements gathering, Design, Analysis, Development and Testing.  • Developed UML diagrams to develop use cases for University's Financial Services web application.  • Implementing the Struts 1.3 framework for Model View Controller (MVC) pattern.  • Used Struts framework along with JSP, Servlets, HTML, CSS, JQuery and JavaScript to construct dynamic web pages.  • Performed validation for client side as well as server side with the help of Struts Validation Frame Work.  • Involved in the implementation of Stateless session beans (EJB) for business logic layer and Entity beans for persistence.  • Supported existing applications developed using Spring MVC, AOP framework.  • Used JPA mapping techniques such as One to One, Many to One and Many to Many mappings to represent relation between various entities in the project.  • Worked Oracle database to create databases of student and faculty login information and their desired areas of study.  • Worked on Eclipse as IDE tools to build up applications.  • Developed codes for ActionServlet, Request Processor and Action classes by extending Struts package.  • Used EJB Message Drive Beans to initiate daily process.  • Executed quality and assurance testing in developed application, reduced performance errors on average by 95%.  • Resolved Blackboard problem tickets and made 100% follow ups maximizing the customer satisfaction.  • Installed SSL certificates on the developed application.  • Provided weekly status reports to the manager with the latest information of all ongoing activities.  • Followed the Java coding standards for scalability, reusability and ease of maintenance.  • Created XML Schema, XML template and XSL. Developed Web Services Application using SOAP and WS-Security.    Environment: Java 1.5, TDD, Struts 1.3, EJB, JQuery, JSP, HTML, CSS, Servlets, SOAP, WS-Security, JMS, MQ, Eclipse, SVN, Ajax, JNDI, JBoss, Junit. Education Bachelor of Technology in Computer Sciences Ramappa Engineering College Skills AJAX (6 years), CSS (6 years), HTML (6 years), JAVA (6 years), JAVASCRIPT (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages Java, C, C++, JSP, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS, AJAX, XML, JSON  Java Technologies JAVA BEANS, RMI, Servlets, JSP, EJB, JDBC, Web services  Frameworks MVC, Hibernate, Spring, Struts, Hibernate OGM  Web/Application Servers Web Logic, IBM Web Sphere, JBoss, Tomcat  Databases Oracle, SQL Server  Web Technologies HTML5/DHTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS, XML, XSL, XSLT, AngularJS  Scripting Languages JavaScript, JQuery    Operating Systems Windows 2000/XP/NT/vista/7, UNIX  Other Tools Maven, Ant, Log4j, JUnit, Entity Beans, UNIX Shell Scripting.