Java and Cloud integration Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> and Cloud integration <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java and Cloud integration Developer - Systems Technology Group, Troy Northville, MI Work Experience Java and Cloud integration Developer Systems Technology Group, Troy February 2018 to Present Project: Consumer Account Profile (Ford Motor Company, Dearborn MI)    A J2EE/ Java web application in PCF cloud environment to maintain user account and vehicle information. The project employs Micro services architecture and Spring Boot framework for rapid development and deployment of the application in cloud. Another feature of the project is the use of Spring based Rest Web services to interact with other existing applications. Project follows agile software development methodology, Test Driven development TDD along with paired programming principles  Responsibilities:  • Enhancement of the DEEP libraries with new mechanism like Event engine and Event audit.  • Used Redis for implementing Caching mechanism.  • Implementing the new message retry mechanism using Rabbit MQ in the event of any failure in the downstream systems.  • Configured Jenkins as for CI/CD.  • Rest services templates are generated using swagger specifications.  • Used Spring Data JPA repositories and hibernate for Database access  • New library development with micro services architecture using Rest APIs, spring boot and pivotal cloud foundry.  • Enhancement of the existing functionality to persist the messages to SQL Server in Rabbit MQ.  • Created Configserver to configure the application from MarketPlace pcf apps manager.  • Used Jmeter for load and performance testing and Automation testing.  • Implementation of Hystrix circuit breaker to avoid loss of messages during handling of messages at the consumer level.  • Used Apache Ambari to query Audit and Activity Data from Hadoop system.  • Used Splunk tool for log management and Spring Aspect oriented framework for logging.  • Implementation of Zuul proxy as the API gateway.  • Test plans and Unit Testing using Junit and Mockito.  • Supported application which is using angular 6.    Environment: Core Java, J2EE, Spring, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud Config, Netflix OSS components(Eureka, Zuul, Hystrix), Pivotal Cloud Foundry, Rabbit MQ, Angular 6 ,SQL Server,JSON, Restful Web Services using Micro services architecture, Apache Ambari JIRA, Maven, Splunk, Gradle, Rally, Git hub, Eclipse, Swagger, Junit, Ecl Emma ,Mockito and Windows. Sr. Java Developer SMACI INC April 2015 to January 2018 Project: Nexus (Mercedes Benz Financial services)  Nexus project is a program to consolidate existing consumer and commercial portfolio into one portfolio. This includes the data and the operations. For achieving this result all the local landscape systems have to make changes to their existing applications to fit the needs of NEXUS objectives. As a part of NEXUS Phase 1 and Phase 2, FAW system has to be modified to display the truck and Car data from NEXUS.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in design and restructuring the application for the NEXUS Phase 1 & Phase2  • Involved in designing and implementing the security roles and permissions of the users based on a XML property file  • Integrated the new NEXUS data seamlessly in the FAW project using Webservices (JAX -WS)  • Achieved the SLA performance by implementing Asynchronous Web Service calls and implementing ODS approach.  • Implemented persistence layer using Hibernate to store the persistence data into database.  • Used Quartz scheduler to schedule some automatic jobs.  • Configured hibernate configuration file, and hibernate mapping files and developed POJO's to map objects to Oracle relational database.  • Implemented DAO layer using Hibernate.  • Wrote Hibernate Query Language (HQL) queries to store and retrieve the data from Oracle 11g database.  • Decreased the time lag in loading the web pages by implementing lazy loading concept in JQuery and Data tables  • Implemented JQuery in the application for dynamic search results with Data Tables  • As an analyst for the Phase 1 of the project, was involved in Requirement gatherings, Design, Analysis, Code development and deployment.  • Expert in development and deployment of application using J2EE, Struts 2.3, Servlets 2.4, iRAD 7.5.5, Web Sphere Application Server 6.0 /7.0 and XML  • Designed and implemented the framework for the Customer Address Update module using WebSphere MQ which will provide the data to the Consumer website application.  • Preparing the BRD's, Test Plans and Test Cases for the same  • Involved in the CTI and IVR telephony integration for the telephone calls  • Used Microsoft Visio for developing the use case diagrams and architecture diagrams  • Implemented user login authentication using Site Minder  • Used ANT build scripts to automate the build process and to deploy the application.  • Developed modules using JPA with DB2 as database  • Developed custom KPI (Key performance Indicator) tool for monitoring system Health Check using WebSphere API.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Struts 2.0, JSP 1.2, JSTL, Web Sphere Application Server 7.0, IRAD 7.5, Log4j, JavaScript, CSS, XML, DB2 v 9.54, Windows 7, Web Sphere MQ series, IVR and CTI integration, Site Minder, Rapid Sql 7.5. , Oracle 11g , JPA , Jquery 3.3.1, DataTables 1.9.4, Web Service (JAX-WS), Sonar qube, sonar Wind. Teamsite/ Java Consultant Fabergent Inc - Mahwah, NJ January 2015 to March 2015 The objective of this project is to maintain the website through Interwoven Teamsite tool and to remove the dependency on technology team for the same. The purpose of the project is to maintain the cigna.com site and enhancing the existing site. Site publisher will be the primary tool for creating the pages. As per the requirements, the components were built to construct the page.  Responsibilities:  • Developed the controllers for the login page, registration page, forgot password page, reset password page using live site controllers and externals.  • Designed and developed the responsive layout configuration files for the project.  • Worked on JDBC Connections for the Interactions with the Database for fetching the user information and also for storing the data for the users.  • Worked on the Front end java script Validations for registration and login pages.  • Created various templates for the web pages using Form Publisher.  • Actively participate in all stages of web CMS project lifecycle (collaboration, design, implementation and management) for all externally facing Web-based business applications.  • Responsible for Coding and testing the requirement to check the functionality.  • Created Test cases and Test Scenarios to Perform Unit testing to check the accuracy.  • Responsible for Fixing bugs and Defects raised by the user. Implementing the requirements in the production system.  • Developed several reusable data capture template components so that they can be used in various data types and developed TPL(s), generated web pages. Java Developer Cognizant Technology Solutions - Chennai, Tamil Nadu June 2011 to November 2013 This is an intranet project for Baxter Healthcare professionals. This Project is developed to keep databank of the Healthcare professionals in specialized in particular stream, referenced Healthcare professionals and about their customers. It has the facility to maintain a huge databank of customers and Healthcare professionals with different authentication (login) for different category of people. This project is developed to manage the daily activities of Healthcare professionals with regards in maintaining their personal records and scheduling staff records and scheduling patient registration details, appointments, case history, doctor's advice, admission details, physical examination and investigation reports, and daily progress.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, design and implementation of business requirements.  • Extensively worked in integrating the different layers of the project.  • Designed and developed Application based on Struts framework using MVC design patterns.  • Implemented AJAX base applications using JQuery.  • Implemented service oriented architecture (SOA) using JAX-WS, SOAP, WSDL and JAXB.  • Developed Struts Action classes and Form Beans.  • Designed and developed the UI using Struts view component, JSP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Extensively used JSTL tags and Struts tag libraries. Used Struts tiles as well in the presentation tier.  • Developed Custom Tags to simplify the JSP code and designed UI screens using JSP, CSS, XML and HTML. Used JavaScript for client side validation.  • Responsible for writing the JavaScript code for validating the application.  • Used JQuery for validations and UI development.  • JSP Content is configured in XML Files for Developing Deployment descriptor files.  • Developed numerous UI (User Interface) screens using JSP and HTML, CSS, Java Script.  • Responsible for writing the JavaScript code for validating the application.  • Involved in Unit Testing of the specified Modules.  • Used JDBC for calling PL/SQL Stored Procedures.  • Involved in production support of the application.  • Implemented in various design patterns in the project.  • Involved in bug (Debugging) of the application.  • Involved in System Testing and integration testing of the application.    Environment: Java,CoreJava,J2ee,Struts,JavaBeans,Servlets,JSP's,JDBC,JavaScript,HTML,CSS,XML,Apache Tomcat, DB2,SQL,Windows XP, LINUX, Eclipse, VSS Log4j, Junit, ANT, Jboss. Java/J2EE Developer Fabergent Inc - Bengaluru, Karnataka May 2008 to May 2009 Liberty Mutual Insurance Company is a 100 billion capital worth insurance company. It is well known for its Auto, Home and life insurance products in USA. The BRP Solution Center provides services and project support for a wide variety of business partners and applications. The Project is regarding BRP (Billing Receipts and Payments)  Responsibilities:  • Developed user interface using Java Server Faces (JSF) and Face Lets to provide a component based model.  • Designed and developed the application using Face lets, AJAX, Prime Faces and custom tag libraries and JSF tags (core and HTML).  • Used client side scripting languages such as JavaScript and JQuery.  • Integrated spring with JSF framework to use Inversion of Control (IOC).  • Involved in generating the Hibernate mapping files and configuring it with spring.  • Participated in code reviews and helped improve the software quality.  • Created Hibernate mapping files for mapping POJO to the database tables  • Used Criterion Queries and Named Queries on the Hibernate Template.  • Injected DAO's into Spring Framework using Dependency Injection.  • Developed JUnit test cases for unit testing the application.  • Developed ANT scripts to build, package and deploy the application and used Log4j for the Logging system.  • Worked on web services using jax-ws and axis2 and SOAP protocol.    Environment: JSP, JSF, Face lets, Prime Faces, Spring, Hibernates, Ajax, JavaScript, JQuery , Java 1.5, Web Services, Apache Axis, SOAP, WSDL, J Boss, RAD 8.0.4, Oracle 10g, JUnit, Log4j, Ant, TOAD, Subversion, Agile/Scrum methodology, UNIX. Education Master's Skills ECLIPSE, EJB, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, Devops, Jenkins, Docker