Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Eden Prairie, MN • Around 9 years of experience in development and implementation of Web-based Client-Server applications using Java and J2EE technologies.  ? Working knowledge in multi-tiered distributed environment, OOAD concepts, good understanding of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) and familiarity of Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  ? Expert in HTML5/CSS3 development and have experience in Backbone.js, Require.js, node.js, Angular.js, Grunt js, Responsive design.  ? Solid working knowledge of functional programming, Java 8 , Lambda Functions and Method References.  ? Experience in using front end frame work Ext JS and Angular JS, proficient in features such as Directives, Controllers. Scopes and Data Binding.  ? Highly experienced in developing application using modern JS frameworks and libraries like  Angular.JS, jQuery.  Also used Angular JS for making Restful API calls and data binding.  ? Deep knowledge of Angular.JS practices and commonly used modules based on extensive  work experience.  ? Preferred experience with third-party frameworks such as Ionic, NativeScript, Cordova, and ReactJS.  ? Extensively worked on designing User Interface (UI) applications and professional web applications using HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, XSL, XSLT, JQuery, D3.js, JSON and CSS.  ? Expertise in client scripting language and server side scripting languages like JavaScript, AngularJS, jQuery, JSON, Node.js, ActionScript, JSF and JSP.  ? Provided technical assistance for integration of Appian systems along with external systems such as SAP.  ? Experience in Micro services development using spring boot and deployment in Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF).  ? Vast knowledge of utilizing cloud technologies including Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure and Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF).  ? Conducted detailed analysis to support designing and development of BPM applications.  ? Conduct in-house and public workshops and training seminars: Extreme Programming, Test-Driven Development, Agile Development, .NET Development, Design Patterns, "Communicating with Tests" seminar.  ? Architecting and implementing Portfolio Recommendation Analytics Engine using Hadoop MR, Oozie, Spark SQL, and Cassandra.  ? Highly Experienced in Design and Development of both Rest and Soap based Webservices.  ? Responsible for setting up Angular JS 4.0 framework for UI development. Developed html views with HTML5, CSS3, JSON and AngularJS 2.0.  ? Experience in creating comprehensive web applications using MEAN stack implemented with MS SQL, Express, Angular 2/4/5 and Node.js, Java 8..  ? Experienced in working with version control systems like GIT and used Source code management client tools like GitBash, GitHub, Git Lab  ? Experienced with Akka building high performance and reliable distributed applications in Java 8.0 and Scala.  ? Good Knowledge in Angular 4.0  ? Expertise in application development using JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JNDI, spring, Hibernate, JSF, EJB2.0/3.0, XML, Web Services- SOAP, WSDL.  ? Expertise in XML and related technologies like XSL, XSLT, XPATH and parsers like JAXP (SAX, DOM) and JAXB.  ? Expertise in designing and developing enterprise applications using J2EE technologies like EJB2.1/3.0, Struts 1.2/2.0,Spring 3.0 and 4.0, JDBC, JNDI, JMS, JAXB, SAX/DOM, Web services.  ? Experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and OOP through implementation and testing.  ? Expertise on various AWS Services including Computing, Database, Storage, Networking, Security and CI/CD  ? Participated in understanding of ExtJS technologies and development tasks  ? Implemented TDD using Junit in many project.  ? Experience in PairProgramming and CodeReviews.  ? Experience in Bootstrap (responsive design), Backbone, and AngularJS frameworks  ? Good Knowledge of using IDE Tools like Eclipse, NetBeans, JBuilder, Jasper, Rational Application Developer(RAD), Angular JS for Java/J2EE application development  ? Knowledge and familiarity with programming of Java, SQL, XML, JavaScript, JavaScript, Camel, Flex, Spring and/or Hibernate.  ? Worked in Lucene Search Engines like Solr and Elastic Search.  ? Knowledge of the following: Python, Ruby, Groovy, Scala.  ? Sound skill in Swing MVC architecture, design patterns, Collections Frameworks, Exceptions handling and multi-threading.  ? A very good understanding of Groovy and Grails. Work Experience Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Optum - Eden Prairie, MN December 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for writing J2EE compliant Java code for application development effort which involved working with JSP, Servlets, JDBC, XML, EJB, etc.  ? Design and Development of Objects using Object Oriented Design in Java.  ? Preparing the migration document for migrating application from Struts to Spring and Responsive web designing the application.  ? Developed REST API's using Spring MVC and Spring boot , hosted all micro services on PCF  ? Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Development of Cloud deployed applications  ? Designed AMI images of EC2 Instances by employing AWS CLI and GUI.  ? Deployed services in Spring Cloud using Pivotal Cloud Foundry with PCF CLI client  ? Infrastructure Development on AWS by employing services such as EC2, RDS, Cloud Front, Cloud Watch, VPC, etc.  ? Create RFP (Request for Proposal) microservice to provide RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  ? Implemented and managed Oracle Advanced Replication, Advanced Security, Label Security, Database Vault, Partitioning, Compression, Encryption with Oracle Transparent Data Encryption TDE  ? Worked on upgrading the Mongo DB version from 2.4 to 2.6.  ? Used Spring Data Mongo DB as the persistence framework in retrieving the user and medical benefits details from Mongo DB.  ? Implemented DAO layer using JPA (Hibernate framework) to interact with database.  ? Designed and developed web pages using HTML, JSP, JavaScript and XSLT, involved in writing new JSPs, designed pages using HTML and client validation using JavaScript and jQuery.  ? Developed single page applications using Angular 2, Typescript, HTML5, CSS3, and Bootstrap.  ? Used Scala for coding the components in Play and Akka.  ? Used scala scripts for spark machine learning libraries API execution for decision trees, ALS, logistic and linear regressions algorithms.  ? Populated HDFS and Cassandra with huge amounts of data using Apache Kafka.  ? Strong experience with Microservices, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Cloud Foundry, Netflix OSS stack.  ? Experience in deploying the Cassandra cluster in cloud, on premises, data storage and disaster recovery.  ? Experience in designing data models in Cassandra and working with Cassandra Query Language.  ? Experience in Automation testing using Selenium Web Driver, JUnit and Maven.  ? Responsible for writing the Design Specifications for the generic and application specific web services in Groovy n Grails.  ? Developing Restful web service development in Grails  ? Responsible for overall Docker & Kubernetes setup, configuration and Architecture.  ? Configured and maintained a large scale Docker based PaaS environment using kubernetes  ? Proposed and implemented branching strategy suitable for agile development in GIT  ? Involved in Agile methodology with respect to the successful development of the project.  ? Configured local Maven repositories and multi-component projects and scheduled projects in Jenkins for continuous integration.  ? Have extensive experience in building and deploying applications on Web/Application Servers.  ? Developed web services to perform various operations on the supplier information.  ? Supported the applications through debugging, fixing and maintenance releases.  ? Involved in mapping the data from various vendors with the existing database.  ? Responsible for updating the supplier database if new updates are available.  ? Developed UNIT test cases using JUNIT and Mockito and configure through Maven surefire plugins to be part of continuous integration.  ? Worked on the Single Sign On (SSO) integration of the entire application  ? Linux and windows servers along with cloud strategies of Amazon Web Services.  ? Proficient in writing Cloud Formation Templates (CFT) in YAML and JSON format to build the AWS services with the paradigm of Infrastructure as a Code.  ? Involved in Units integration, bug fixing and User acceptance testing with test cases.  ? Designed and developed applications using Agile Methodology.  ? Responsible for requirements gathering, analyzing and developing design documents and reviewing with business.  ? Created, implemented and managed Pivotal Cloud Foundry deployments  ? Familiar with concepts of Azure and OpenStack Cloud Based Technologies.  ? Experienced in installing and troubleshooting CF installations on IAAS (Azure, AWS etc.)  ? Deployed containers and Micro services in AWS using EC2 Container Services.  ? Extensive experience in developing Web Services applications using REST Client, REST API, SOAP UI, dozer mapper.  ? Extensively used Core Java API, Spring API in developing the business logic.  ? Used Spring Core and the Inversion of Control module of Spring framework  ? Designed and Developed Representational state transfer (REST) based services and Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) based services as part of the requirement.  ? Developed user interface components using JSP and tag libraries.  ? Used Oracle as database and Involved in the design and development of PL/SQL backend implementation.  ? Currently working on developing Server less functioning using AWS lambda with JAVA 8.  ? Worked on different Automation tooling techniques to support reporting/development and the CI/CD pipeline.  ? Involved in development of different modules using Spring boot framework, Restful Web Services, JPA and integrate the modules.  ? Built RESTful APIs in front of different types of NoSQL storage engines allowing other groups to quickly meet their Big Data needs and remain insulated from rapid technology changes in the NoSQL field.  ? Configured Hibernate-ORM to map java objects such as clients and claims with database tables  ? Developing Web Services that included developing WSDL that included document/literal as well as literal styles, and SOAP Bindings.  ? Developed application using JMS for sending and receiving Point-to-Point JMS Queue messages.  ? Configured Hibernate second level cache using EHCache to reduce the number of hits to the configuration table data.  ? Implemented Micro services which contain the shared functionality that all business units inside the application may perform the same.  ? Implemented techniques to track the usage analytics api consumes the events happened in micro-services and when API is exposed through Platform Lib automatically it records each incoming request considering dependencies.  ? Installed, configured, and managed the servers (AWS, Linux, Tomcat, Apache, MySql, MongoDB, Groovy/Grails, Hudson/Jenkins, JIRA, GIT, and JUnit).  ? Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection and integrated.  ? Involved in Configuration of Elastic Search files like application.yaml.  ? Optimized ExtJS themes and prepared performance applications.  ? Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 2.  ? Experienced in developing SOAP-based Web Services and Web Service Clients (JAX-WS, SOAP, WSDL and JAXB).    Environment: Java 8 , JSP, JQuery, JSON, HBase ,Elastic, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, MICROS, Spring ORM, JAXB, XML, JAX-WS, SOAP Web Services, RESTful web services, SOLR Sr. Java Full Stack Developer CenturyLink - Monroe, LA June 2015 to November 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Designed use cases for the Application as per the business requirements.  ? Participated in requirement gathering and framework implementation sessions through Agile TDD methodology.  ? Experienced developing against SOLR Search Platform APIs  ? Developed and deployed solution using several new technologies, including Linux - Ubuntu, Drupal and Apache SOLR.  ? Created and Manipulated shell scripts on Production server for backup on AWS.  ? Demonstrated skills using AWS Serverless Framework (Lambda, Node, Dynamo DB).  ? Developed PCF based Microservices to expose the key Identity management features on the cloud.  ? Ensured Data Security by Oracle Transparent Data Encryption (TDE) and VPD policy.  ? Identified usability and develop functional and smooth, easy-to-operate and eye-catching web applications using EXT JS, Angular JS and react JS]  ? Imported data from various resources to the Cassandra cluster using Java APIs.  ? Developed and delivered SOAP based Web Servicesfor our new clients used Apache-CXF and SOAP UI to test the services.  ? Work with Platform Operations team to coordinate rolling out of new PCF Buildpacks and Services.  ? Implemented Graphical User Interface (GUI) of the project using Angular.js.  ? Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for a web application, page navigation using Angular.  ? Worked on Angular Strap Framework and AngularJS Validations.  ? Extensively used Core Java concepts and implemented Collections, Multithreading, I/O, Exception Handling and Generics in logic design and development.  ? Used Angular UI Bootstrap3 for Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms for Single Page Application modules  ? Experienced developing against SOLR Search Platform APIs  ? Performed Migration of data from SQL Server 2005 toSQL Server 2008Edition.  ? Developed and deployed solution using several new technologies, including Linux - Ubuntu, Drupal and Apache SOLR.  ? Responsible for design and maintenance of the GIT Repositories, and the access control strategies.  ? Created and designed data ingest pipelines using technologies such as Apache Storm- Kafka.  ? Coordinate with all the teams for functional requirements and ensure compliance to all architecture standards.  ? Developed and implemented software models for software systems and analyze all business requirements for processes.  ? Implemented procedures for data storage management and modeling using Cloud base technologies.  ? Developed and delivered SOAP based Web Servicesfor our new clients used Apache-CXF and SOAP UI to test the services.  ? Experienced in using Scala, Java and Python frameworks for Bigdata/Spark engine requirements  ? Worked with data in multiple file formats including Avro, ORC and Text/ CSV.Develop Spark code using Scala and Spark-SQL for faster testing and data processing.  ? Experience in creating Models, Controllers, Templates, Custom Directives, Components, Filters and Services in AngularJS.  ? Created reusable Angularjs html templates using custom templates.  ? Resolve Micros xStore issues, restore databases, re-image and replace devices  ? Processing data ingestion and entity resolution using Hadoop and Pig.  ? Applied Hadoop MapReduce to reduce processing time from two weeks per year of data to one day.  ? Experience on building CI/CD on AWS environment using AWS Code Commit, Code Build and Code Deploy.  ? Developed business layer using EJB stateless session beans and deployed on the Application server (Web logic).  ? Built restful web services using MongoDB/NodeJS and implemented the front-end using jQuery and AngularJS controllers, directives, and service.  ? Created Composite Applications, Home Security components and Adapters by using Oracle SOA technology.  ? Involved in Enhancement of existing application utilizing Angular JS, created HTML4 navigation menu that is role based wherein menu items changes dynamically based on the values derived from the database in the form of XML.  ? Developed major websites and services by including Mongo DB as backend software.  ? Developed single page application by using Angular JS backed by MongodB and NodeJS  ? Worked closely with the Business/Users team in translating technical requirements into application code  ? Developed web layer using Struts framework to manage the project in MVC pattern.  ? Used Hibernate as persistence framework for DAO layer to access the Oracle10g database.  ? Worked on Eclipse for development and deployment of application in Web Logic Application Server.  ? Creating Angular Services using factory services to implement the business logic.  ? Responsible for coding, testing and documenting various packages, procedures, and functions for libraries.  ? Proficient in using SVN for Version Control.  ? Utilize Camel to integrate micro services with other Micro services and Rabbit MQ messaging exchanges.  ? Actively involved in code reviews and also in bug fixing.    Environment: Java, JSP, JavaScript, Ajax, JQuery, Ant,Elastic, Struts, POS, DOJO, Drools, Hbase, Solr, Marklogic, Spring, MICROS, Hibernate, RSA, WebSphere Application Server, DB2, Agile, XML, LDAP. Sr. Java Developer Prudential - Newark, NJ December 2013 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Actively participated in meetings with Business Analysts and Architects to identify the scope, requirements and architecture of the project.  ? Coordinates and facilitates work sessions with Medicare Operations users and IT development to define projects' scope and requirements and manage project expectations.  ? Served as a project management analyst on multiple initiatives involving maintenance and systems changes for HIPAA implementation.  ? Completed system documentation, researched system requirements, participated in system testing and verification for HIPAA implementation.  ? Worked with Single page application framework Angular 2 extensively using routing, services, views and directives.  ? Implemented database security using Oracle's Transparent Data Encryption based on Database Security Technical Implementation Guide (STIG) developed by Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA).  ? Executed and provided ADDM, AWR and database health check reports to information owners and recommended solutions for improved performance.  ? Ensured Service design fits into overall SOA driven program.  ? Writing entities in Scala and Java along with named queries to interact with database.  ? Writing user console page in lift along with the snippets in Scala. The product is responsible to give access to the user to all their credentials and privileges within the system  ? Writing scala classes to interact with the database.  ? Writing scala test cases to test scala written code  ? Followed MVC model and used spring frameworks for developing the Web layer of the application.  ? Built JavaScript application with Backbone.JS, as well as using Node.JS for server side rendering.  ? Used Bootstrap and Angular, React.js and Node.js in effective web design.  ? Extensively used JavaScript to provide dynamic User Interface and for the client side validations.  ? Solid experience on JavaScript Frameworks like MVC/MVVM JavaScript framework and Exposure to Node.js.  ? Used AJAX framework for asynchronous data transfer between the browser and the server.  ? Extensively used Java Multi-Threading concept for downloading files from a URL.  ? Used Angular UI Bootstrap for Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms for Single Page Application modules.  ? Developed a module as SPA using Angular JS with Angular routers and controllers  ? Individually developed interactive web pages using Angular JS to perform operations in a database.  ? Experience in using front end frame work Ext JS and Angular JS, proficient in features such as Directives, Controllers. Scopes and Data Binding.  ? Worked on research team that developed Scala, a programming language with full Java interoperability and a strong type system.  ? Developed REST-based node.js micro services using domain modeling.  ? Generating scala and Java classes from the respective APIs so that they can be incorporated in the overall application.  ? Built Micro services using Docker, AWS Lambda, and Elastic Beanstalk.  ? Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions using Firefox and IE Developer Toolbar for IE.  ? Involved in Database design for new modules and developed the persistence layer based on Hibernate.    Environment: Java, J2EE, spring, Hibernate, JSP, Eclipse, WebLogic, Maven, JUnit, CVS, CSS, HTML, XML, XSD, JavaScript, Oracle10g and Windows. Java Developer OPSOTR TECHNOLOGIES P LTD - Bengaluru, Karnataka September 2010 to November 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Implemented the project according to the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  ? Adopted HIPAA standards for securing Electronic Protected Health information (EPHI)  ? Developed the web layer using Spring MVC framework.  ? Implemented JDBC for mapping an object-oriented domain model to a traditional relational database.  ? Worked on HIPAA 4010 transaction set and good understanding of changes in HIPAA 5010 transaction set  ? Created Stored Procedures to manipulate the database and to apply the business logic according to the user's specifications.  ? Front end development with jQuery, Knockout.js, React, Node.js.  ? Involved in analyzing, designing, implementing and testing of the project.  ? Developed UML diagrams like Use cases and Sequence diagrams as per requirement.  ? Developed the Generic Classes, which includes the frequently used functionality, for reusability.  ? Experience on scripting (e.g. Bash, Powershell, Perl, Ruby, Python)  ? Used the Node.js, Angular.js, backbone.js and Require.js MVC Frameworks in the development of the web applications.  ? Designed and implemented the application's configuration system, including Swing based GUI.  ? Involved in creation of GUI using Java Swing.  ? Functional and Non-functional testing of web based applications, Database and Hbase based Processing tools, Solr Search Engine, Cloud based web based applications.  ? Peer code reviews using JIRA  ? Worked on fixing bugs and used JIRA to update them.  ? Implemented application level persistence using Hibernate and spring.  ? Deployed Spring Boot based Micro Services Docker container using Amazon EC2 container services and using AWS admin console.  ? Highly skilled in using Version Control Management tools like SVN, CVS, and GIT    Environment: JAVA, Java Script, HTML, JDBC Drivers, SOAP Web Services, UNIX, Shell scripting, SQL Server Education Bachelor's Skills Eclipse, J2ee, J2se, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jboss, Jms, Jndi, jquery, Jsp, Servlets, Struts, C++, Design patterns, Gui, Javascript, Node.js, Middleware, Php Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    J2SE Technology: Multithreading, Reflections, Collections, Serialization, Networking, Beans  Middleware Technology: JMS, MQ Messaging, Tibco, Solace, Active MQ  J2EE Technology: Servlets, JSP, Tag Libraries, JDBC, JNDI  Architecture & Framework: MVC, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, OSGI  Database: Oracle 10g, 11g, SQL server 2005/2008, MySQL  IDE: Eclipse, My Eclipse, NetBeans  Operating Systems: Windows 9x/NT/XP/2003/7/8, Linux, UNIX  Web/App Servers: WebLogic, Web Sphere, Tomcat, JBoss, Apache  GUI: HTML5, XML, XSD, AJAX, JavaScript, Node.js, Angular JS, Angular 2, JQuery, CSS3  Query Languages: SQL, PL/SQL  Programming Language: C, C++, Java, J2EE  Script: PHP, Shell  Design patterns: MVC3, Business Delegate, Business Object, Value Object, Front Controller, Database Access Object, Factory, Singleton, Session Facade.  Tools: Maven, ANT, Log4J, JUnit, TOAD, SOAPUI 4.0.5, JUnit, Rational Rose,