Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Full Stack Developer - Express-Scripts, Franklin Houston, TX • 8+years of experience in IT industry in the fields of Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and  Testing of Software Applications using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Excellent experience with Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) process and Object-oriented analysis, Expertise Java Beans and design (OOAD) concepts.  • Experienced in Waterfall and Agile methodologies and participated in Scrum meetings.  • Hands on experience in Python, Django, Web Services, Java Script, Html, Css.  • Developed MVC Architecture using Jakarta Struts 1.3/2.0 with features like the Validation Framework, Tiles Framework, and Internationalization.  • An experienced Software Engineer/Application Developer with expert knowledge of C#, ASP.Net, Java, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, XML, UNIX, Perl, SQL queries and database design concepts.  • Experience in developing the application with Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and Micro Services Architecture and Test-Driven Development.  • Good Knowledge in developing the application by using JDBC, Servlets, JSP, Java Beans, JMS, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, JSF.  • Proficiency in IBM WebSphere, JBOSS and Apache Tomcat Application Server.  • Expertise in Web Application Development using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Angular2, Node.js, jQuery, Bootstrap, XML, XSL, XSLT, XPath, XQuery, JSON, DOJO, ExtJS, JSTL and AJAX.  • Extensive experience in AngularJS, Node.js, Backbone and Bootstrap.  • Extensive knowledge in developing applications in a Single Page Application (SPAs) using various JavaScript frameworks like AngularJS, Node.js and Bootstrap.  • Solid professional coding experience in Core Java concepts, such as Multithreading, Collection Framework, Synchronization, Garbage Collection, Data Structures, I/O system with strict coding standards.  • Worked on Oracle 10g/9i/8i, SQL Server, MySQL and DB2 Relational Database management systems.  • Expertise in developing inter-operable Web Services and its related technologies like SOAP,  WSDL, UDDI, XML related technologies/tools such as JAXB, XSD, XML with good understanding of JAX-WS,  JAX-RS, JAX-RPC inter-operable issues  • Good experience in implementing SOA solutions through web services using JAX-WS, SpringWS, SOAP, WSDL and RESTful services.  • Created web-based calculators using PHP 7, jQuery, and Ajax to show return on investment and savings. These calculators included custom graph integration and localization with translations and currency conversions.  • Experience in Agile software development process, Test Driven Development and Scrum.  • Experience in working on Linux environment, Windows and UNIX shell scripts  • Worked on IDEs like Eclipse, WSAD (RAD) and J-Builder.  • Expertise in writing complex SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions  • Good experience with Relational databases like Oracle, My SQL, MS SQL Server, IBM DB2 and No SQL databases like Mongo DB, Cassandra, and Dynamo DB.  • Hands-on experience on various AWS Cloud services like EC2, Route53, EBS, Auto Scaling, VPC, Cloud Formation, S3, RDS, Amazon Elastic Load Balancing, IAM, Cloud Watch and other services of the AWS infrastructure like Dynamo DB, SQS and EMR focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance and auto-scaling.  • Hands on Experience in UML designing Use Case diagrams, State Diagrams, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Class Diagrams, and Object Diagrams with Rational Rose 4.0.  • Involved in server-side code development with good knowledge of enterprise and Persistence design patterns like Singleton, Factory, Prototype, Business Delegate, Session Facade, and Service locator, DAO, ORM, MVC, IOC and AOP  • Work experience in integrating Automation scripts (Selenium WebDriver API) on Continuous Integration  tools Hudson/Jenkins for nightly batch run of the Script.  • In depth experience with PL/SQL, T-SQL DB development, Design Patterns, Agile- Scrum, XP, TDD (Test driven).  • Developed application using IDEs such as Eclipse, IntelliJ, and Net Beans.  • Having Good experience in developing and migrating existing application into cloud based platform  like Amazon Web Services (AWS) and Pivotal Cloud Foundry.  • Collaborate well with project management, business analysts, and cross functional management.  • Experience in Bug Fixing, Code Evaluation, Production Support and Maintenance of Application  • Implemented Unit Testing, Debugging, System Testing using Junit.  • Deep understanding and knowledge of Hibernate ORM technology.  • Ability to handle multiple tasks and to work independently as well as in a team, experienced in interacting with  Business/Technology groups. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Express-Scripts, Franklin - Lake, NJ, US March 2018 to Present Responsibilities:    • Worked as a full stack developer responsible for Web, middle tier and Databases in the development of web application for Rejected Application Processing.  • Expertise on Java Portal & Portlets Development and Maintenance.  • Expertise in developing the user interface (UI) using JSP, HTML5 and CSS3.  • Extensive experience working in Object Oriented Programming using Perl language.  • Communicated with database using Perl DBI.  • Object modeling using UML with Rational Rose tool, IBM RAD to create Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Activity Diagrams.  • Designed and developed Micro Services using (MEAN Stack) node.js, Mongo DB, Neo4J, Elastic search on Cisco Private Cloud OpenStack Platform.  • Followed Agile methodology throughout the project, involve in Scrum meetings with the team members on day-to-day basis for the update on project status.  • Used standard J2EE 1.7 design patterns and Model View Controller in application design.  • Implemented presentation layer using Spring Boot 1.3, J-Query and Bootstrap.  • Implementation of RESTFUL JSONAPIs using Ruby on Rails, which were consumed by a frontend Ember.js app.  • Extremely used plain JavaScript and J-Query, JavaScript Library to do the client-side validations.  • Used Multi-threading to overcome the errors in the process of transactions, to handle all the threads by the main thread process.  • Used spring framework 3.5 to create the beans needed and injected dependency using Dependency Injection.  • Used Amazon Web Services (Amazon EC2, Amazon Simple DB, Amazon RDS, Amazon Elastic Load Balancing, Amazon SQS, and AWS Identity).  • Developed consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  • Designed, configured and deployed Amazon Web Services (AWS) for a multitude of applications utilizing the Amazon Web Services focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance and auto-scaling.  • Installed the application on AWS EC2 instances and configured the storage on S3 buckets.  • The build artifacts like wars and ears are deployed into a Weblogic app server by integrating the WLST scripts to Shell Scripts.  • Developed the view-controller components using JavaScript(J-Query), CSS3, HTML5 and DHTML  • Used Bootstrap library to quickly build project UI's and used AngularJS framework to associate HTML elements to models.  • Developed reusable and interoperable Web service modules based on SOA architecture using RESTful services.  • Developed PHP pages enforcing the Zend Model View Controller design pattern (MVC)  • Created REST Services using ASP.NET WebAPI and C# to expose analytics data to the clients and hosted them in IIS, Azure.  • Development of Spring Boot applications with micro services.  • Developed JMS components to send messages from one application to other application. Deployed the application in the WebLogic application server.  • Implemented with XML, XSLT, XPath and Web services (REST & Soap).  • Configured the Application Server J-boss, Tomcat and Web Logic Servers.  • Used Hibernate framework for the backend persistence layer.  • Used Jenkins for Continuous Integration and deployment into WebLogic application Server.  • Node.js API server is deployed to AWS via Docker container service  • Worked with DB architect to design database objects, Conceptual Data Model and Logical Data Model.  • Designed and developed database objects like Tables, Views, Stored Procedures, User Functions using PL/SQL, SQL Developer and used them in WEB components.  • Developed solutions for diverse programming scenarios in C#, employing Object Oriented Programming (OOP) concepts such as: encapsulation, inheritance, polymorphism, abstraction and Design patterns like Abstract factory.  • Developed PL/SQL triggers and master tables for automatic creation of primary keys.  • Utilized Spring core, Spring Boot, JPA, EJB3, Hibernate 3, JMS framework  • Used Eclipse as IDE tool to develop the application and JIRA for bug and issue tracking.  • Developed Themes, Layouts and Hooks required for Portal Development.  • Running Tests and writing Swagger specifications for few micro services.  • Used JSON objects, ECMAScript6, TypeScript, JavaScript and Bootstrap intensively to create interactive web pages Worked on Jira for User requirements and used Jira as bug tracking tools.  • Used Maven are as build tools to deploying the application.  • Maven was used to manage dependencies in the application and deploy it on JBoss Application server.  • Installed and configured Cassandra cluster and CQL on the cluster.  • Imported data from various resources to the Cassandra cluster using Java APIs.  • Used SDK such as Eclipse IDE, Toad, SVM, Intellij in this project.  • Used an open source debugging tools like soap UI, Firebug for testing.  • Worked with Ruby gems such as Ruby-pg for PostgreSQL.  • Involved in developing applications using Java and J2EE.  • Involved in designing and development of web interface using JSP, Servlets, and JavaScript.  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery. Worked on backend of the application.  • Supported debugging and fixing of reported production errors by customers through customer support and the QA team.  • Involved in code reviews, test case reviews and bug fixing using Jira tracking systems.  • Involved in complete SDLC - Requirement Analysis, Architect proposed solution, High Level Design documentation, Review and Validate development effort, Support System Integration and User Acceptance Testing, Deployment and Release Management. Interacting with Business Analysts and business users to understand and analyze the requirements.    Environment: Java, J2EE patters, JSP, Spring MVC, JAXB, AWS, Hibernate, Micro Services, Maven, Hudson, Jenkins, SVM, J-Query, AJAX, HTML, XHTML, XML, CSS, Cassandra, JavaScript, AngularJS, Shell Scripting, UML modeling, Web Services (REST & Soap), Spring boot, WebLogic ,J-boss, Web Logic Servers, J-unit, soap UI, AWS, Fire Bug. Sr. Java Full Stack Developer JP Morgan Chase - Wilmington, DE September 2016 to February 2018 Responsibilities:    • Experience with using tools such as Eclipse IDE, NetBeans, Git, and Jira.  • Designed, implemented, and coded Restful Web Services with JSON formatted messages running on a J-Boss Web Server to create, modify, delete.  • Used Spring MVC Model View Controller to handle/intercept the user requests and used various controllers to delegate the request flow to the Backend tier of the application.  • Created many reports using Perl, Mod_Perl, CGI and shell scripts  • Worked in an Agile Environment and participated in requirement gathering, analysis and design.  • Designed the class diagrams and sequence diagrams using Visio.  • Implemented the service layer based on a Spring container and exploited Spring's IOC features for bean management.  • Good knowledge in Implementing the persistence layer using Hibernate-ORM 4.3.0. Worked on Spring Web Flow on Spring MVC for building flows in our web application.  • To meet scale and availability requirements, we selected Apache Cassandra for Cassandra's master less architecture, ability to easily and quickly scale horizontally to meet their growing data store needs.  • Involved in designing, capacity planning and implementing multi-rack Cassandra cluster.  • Implemented and administered Data center Cassandra Clusters based on the knowledge of architecture and data modeling for Cassandra applications. Developed DAO classes with JUnit using Spring DAO package for data access and data manipulation.  • Implemented J2EE design patterns like Front Controller, Service Locator, DAO, and Session Façade.  • Developing the UI screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and Ajax.  • Developed Web Services using SOAP, SOA, WSDL Spring MVC and developed DTDs, XSD schemas for XML (parsing, processing, and design) to communicate with Active Directory application using Restful API.  • Development of EJBs 2.1 (Stateless Session and Message Driven Beans), JMS, JavaScript, JDOM and configuring CMR relationships (Container-Managed Relationships)  • Used Business Process and Decision Management Design using JBoss JBPM and JBoss Drools Rules Engine.  • Used IntelliJ Integrated Development Environment (IDE).  • Created SOAP/XML and REST/JSON Java Clients to test the Web Services developed and sent the payload data from a property file.  • Implemented Web Applications using JSF, EJB3, Hibernate 3, JSP, Servlets, and client side validations using Java Script.  • Created test harness and automated them using Java, Selenium, ant for data reporting consoles.  • Used UNIX/LINUX command level, and Shell Scripting  • Used Node.js to develop the back-end components, connect the application with the other web services.  • Involved in the creation of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using AngularJS (2.0), React.js, and J-Query.  • Involved in document analysis such as Use Case Documents and preparing the Detailed Design document for the project.  • Created Stored Procedures using PL/SQL.  • Used Maven to automate the build and deployment process.  • Developed test cases using JUNIT, and followed test first development.  • Assisted QA team in Test cases preparation and fixed bugs.  • Involved in collecting functional requirements, and translating into technical requirements.    Environment: UNIX, LINUX, J-Boss, JSON, SVN, JSF, EJB, SOAP, SOA, Hibernate 3, REST API, Servlets, Oracle, Maven, IntelliJ, HTML 5, CSS 3, WebLogic, Ajax, REST/JSON, AWS, RESTEASY, Cassandra, SQL, PL/SQL, Visio, Node.js AngularJS (2.0), React.js, and J-Query. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer PNC Bank - Pittsburgh, PA December 2015 to August 2016 Responsibilities:    • Responsible for analyzing the business user requirements and participated in meeting the users with Business Analysts.  • Create fully functional front-end, back-end, and full stack applications.  • Designed detailed design diagrams based on the requirement specifications by using Rational Rose.  • Developed on Agile Methodology for the User Interface and backend Java development of the business Application.  • Good experience in developing client/server and N-tier web applications using Java, J2EE, Apache Struts framework and Spring (MVC) framework.  • Configured various interceptors for transaction management, security, Audit logging (database) and logging using Spring AOP.  • Implemented SQL Alchemy which is a python library for complete access over SQL.  • Designed and constructed computer applications and systems using Groovy.  • Implemented latest HTML5 and CSS3 features like creating various effects, shading, 2D 3D animation, Shapes, Handling multimedia files and many others.  • Developed the front-end featuring rich web interface implemented using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript toolkits.  • Used Camel Components like HTTP/HTTPS, SQL and AWS S3.  • Development of GUI for HTML and JSP Versions. Servlets were used as the common gateway interface between the client and server.  • Implemented Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using JMS for sending and receiving messages while creating web services.  • Design and Development of Struts Action classes, DAO (Data Access Objects), Views using Struts custom tags.  • Java Beans were used to handle business logic as a Model and Servlets to control the flow of application as Controller.  • Object storage service Amazon S3 is used to store and retrieve media files such as image.  • Amazon EC2 is used for deploying and testing the lower environments such as Dev and Test.  • Worked in all the modules of the application which involved front-end presentation logic developed using Tiles, JSP, JSTL and java script, Bootstrap, Business objects developed using POJOs and data access layer using IBATIS framework.  • Utilized Struts2, Spring and Hibernate3, JPA, EJB3, JMS framework  • Worked on service-oriented systems that utilize REST web frameworks, SOAP and message queue technologies (Spring MVC 4, Spring REST Template, Active MQ server, Spring Integration).  • Conducted weekly code walk through using UNIX Shell Scripts.  • Used Rational Application Developer (RAD), which is based on Eclipse, to develop and debug application code.  • Extensively used DOJO Toolkit to develop the front-end web application with DOJO's JavaScript tools.  • Involved in the Development of Spring Framework Controllers. Developed Controller for request, response paradigm by Spring Controllers using Spring-MVC.  • Used selenium and converted manual regression test cases to automated tests.  • Experience in using control tools like SVN, and GIT in the configuration management.  • Performed Unit Testing using JUnit.    Environment: Java/J2EE, Struts, Multi-Threading, Spring, JSP, Apache CXF, JAX-B, HTML, JavaScript, J-Query, CSS, Oracle RIDC, JSON, WebLogic, SOAPUI, Ant, SVN, GIT, Eclipse, Windows XP, Sql, My Sql server, UNIX, Junit. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer One Main Financial - Evansville, IN March 2013 to November 2015 Responsibilities:    • Actively participated in development of Use case, Class diagrams, Object diagrams and Sequence diagrams for the modules using UML and Rational Rose.  • Application has been developed based on Model View Controller (MVC) architecture Using Struts MVC Framework.  • Worked in an Agile Environment and participated in requirement gathering, analysis and design.  • Responsible for reviewing the requirements, and design the application in accordance with the enterprise architecture standards that are in place.  • Responsible for reviewing the other developer's code, ensuring the coding standards and architectural are met and assisting the offshore developers.  • Designed User Interface using Java Server Faces (JSF), HTML, Bootstrap, CSS3, jQuery and AngularJS and XML in a responsive grid layout.  • Developed the presentation layer using JSP, JSF, Tag libraries, Struts 2.0 Framework and client validations using JavaScript.  • Used Spring IOC, AOP and annotations concepts in developing the application.  • Used Adobe Flex with Action Script to create Rich UI for training module of the application.  • Developed web application using JSP Framework, user interfaces using JSP, DOJO, HTML and CSS.  • Used JSTL tag libraries extensively while coding JSP pages. Written JavaScript for validation of page data in the JSP pages.  • Transformed XML content into internal XML using XPath, XSLT.  • Handled Java Multi-Threading part in back-end component, one thread will be running for each user, which serves that user.  • Worked with spring web flow, Multi-Threading using Maps like Concurrent Hash maps.  • Used Connection Pooling to get JDBC connection and access database procedures.  • Participated in Database schema design and Application screen design discussions.  • Developed the web services classes by using Service Oriented Architecture SOA, WSDL, UDDI, SOAP.  • Worked on AJAX Frameworks GWT, DWR, DOJO.  • Developed POJO's, Data Access Object (DAO) that handles all database operations using Hibernate.  • Implemented Hibernate to map all the tables from different data sources to make database updating.  • Involved in the Development of Spring Framework Controllers. Developed Controller for request, response paradigm by Spring Controllers using Spring-MVC.  • Involved in writing DAO layer using Hibernate to access the Oracle database.  • Involved in the configuration management using RTC.  • Developed various test cases and performed unit testing using JUnit.  • Junit, log4j were used for unit testing and as logging frameworks.  • Working with the JIRA tool for Quality Center bug tracking.    Environment: Struts Framework, JSP, Servlets, POJO, DAO AJAX, Shell, Java Script, Hibernate, Web Logic, ANT, HTML 5, XML, XSLT, CSS 3, RTC, JUnit, Eclipse, Tomcat6, SOAP, WSDL, Web Services, RDMS, JMS, UNIX, Windows. Java Developer Sonata Software Limited - Hyd June 2011 to February 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in phases of SDLC of the project and its including the design, Agile software development, installations, integrations and testing to complete the requirements.  • Interacted with collecting the business requirements, analyze and design the system with various UML diagrams in Rational Rose.  • Application has been developed based on Model View Controller (MVC) architecture Using Struts Framework.  • Designed and developed web services (sync and Async) that InComm offers Enterprise web services to clients.  • Developed the application using Core Java concepts like Multi-Threading, Swing, Spring, Structs, and worked on new features of java 1.5 such as Enum, Annotations.  • Developed JSP's, Action classes and EJBs for user transactions.  • Developed Generic Java Scripts functions for validations.  • Used HTML, JSP, JSTL tag libraries and struts tiles to develop the presentation tier.  • Used J2EE Design patterns and Data Access Object (DAO) in the integration tier layer of the project.  • Used JDBC in the Enterprise Java Beans to access the Oracle Database  • Database Development includes PL/SQL stored procedures, views, indexes, triggers, and constraints are used to reduce the response time in the application.  • Responsible for interfacing with client for review and analysis of the business requirement specification.  • XML code is used to transfer the application data between client and server. In server-side, Servlets is used to construct and parse the data in XML format and in client-side Java is used.  • Designed generic XML document and XSD document specifications for extensibility.  • Used Hibernate to connect to Database to create DAO layer.  • Designed and developed stored procedures for data validation and access.  • Involved in coding for JUnit test cases, ANT building the application.    Environment: Agile, Java, J2EE, Struts, EJB, Swing, Enum, Hibernate, DAO, Windows, SQL Server 2005, PL/SQL, XML, Web Service, JDBC, JavaScript, ANT. Education Bachelor's Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jms, Jndi, Jsp, Servlets, Struts, Wsad, .net, C#, C++, Design patterns, Git, Html, Ms project, Ooa, Java J2Ee Additional Information Technical Competencies:  Languages Java/j2EE, Html, CSS, SQL and PL/SQL C#.Net ,VB.NET, C++, Core JAVA  J2EE Technologies  JSP, Servlets, JNDI, JDBC, EJB, JMS, Struts, Hibernate, Springs, AJAX, Web Services (SOAP, WSDL, UDDI), SAX, Restful Web Service, HTML, XML, XSL, XSD, XSLT.    Framework and Tools Struts framework, spring, Hibernate.  IDE's/Development tools Eclipse, My Eclipse, RAD 7.0/6.0, IntelliJ 7.0  Design Methods Design Patterns, OOA/OOD  Version Control Tools Git Hub, CVS, Sub Version  Database Oracle, MS SQL Server, MySQL  Protocols HTTP, TCP/IP, SOAP, SMTP, LAN and WAN  Testing Tools Eclipse, WSAD, RAD, CVS, J-Builder, J- Developer, Ant, Maven  Documentation Tools MS Office 97/2000/2002, Visio, MS Project  Operating Systems Windows XP/2000/NT/98/95, UNIX.  Cloud Computing AWS - EC2, RDS, S3, Dynamo DB  Micro services Swagger, Pivital Cloud Foundry, Spring Micro Services, Springboot, Netflix Eureka