Full stack developer Full stack <span class="hl">developer</span> Full stack developer • Agile Full Stack Software Developer with over 7 years of IT experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing, and Development of Web Based and Enterprise based Client/Server Applications using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Experience in various methodologies like Waterfallmodel, Incremental and Iteration model, Test Driven development and agile methodologies such as Scrum, Extreme programming and pair programming.  • Extensive working experience in designing and developing professional UI using several front-end technologies like HTML, CSS, XML, and Bootstrap  • Extensive hands on experience on front end programming languages like JavaScript and TypeScript.  • Experience withAngularand hands-on concepts such as components, directives, data and event binding, services, Observables (RxJS), dependency injection, NgModules, pipes and routing  • Expertise in implementation of Java concepts like OOPS, Exception Handling, Multithreading, Collections, Generics, Tread Poolsand core Java SE 8 concepts like Stream API, functional interfaces and LambdaExpressions.  • Developed and deployed Micro Services based applications using Spring Boot,Spring Cloud and consumed services using Spring Rest Template  • Experience in developing SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) and J2EE Web Services using SOAP and REST  • Experience in implementing RESTful web services based on JAX-RS using frameworks like JerseyandSOAP based on JAX-WS using frameworks like Apache CXF.  • Worked with Swagger framework and WADL for documentation of REST API's  • Strong experience in Spring Framework modules such as Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring JDBC, Spring Data, Spring REST, Spring JTA, Spring IO, Spring Security, Spring Boot with Thyme leaf template.  • Better understanding of implementation using Spring Cloud-Netflix OOS stack for micro service deployment and auto configurations like Eureka (Service Discovery Server), Hystrix (Circuit Breaker), Zuul (Edge proxy) and Monitoring and centralized log analysis (ELK).  • Experience in ORM frameworks like JPA interface and its implementations like Hibernate, Spring Data, iBatis, andJPA  • Great exposer to Relational Databases like MySQL, andOracle, and have good understanding atQuery Optimization and good experience in writingSQL Queries, PL/SQL-Stored procedures, Functions, Triggers, Indexes and Views.  • Hands on experience with build tools like Maven, Gradle and ANT and logging tools like Log4j.  • Experience in using Messaging Queue (MQ) services like Apache Kafka, Rabbit MQ, andActive MQ  • Experience in providing robust security for the applications using Spring Security Framework and worked with JWT (Json Web Token) token-based authentication and involved Oath 2.0 Configuration for Authentication and Authorization.  • Experience in using various Amazon Web Services (AWS) like EC2 for Virtual Servers, S3 and  Glacier for storing objects and Lambda high availability practices and deploying backup/restore infrastructure.  • Experience in deploying the microservices using Docker container and ability to setup continuous integration and deployment pipeline using Jenkins with GitHub on AWS or any Cloud Service.  • Extensive experience in building continuous integration and continuous deployment using Jenkins, Bamboo, Travis and AWS code Pipeline with any cloud repository.  • Expertise in using version control tools like SVN, CVS, Git, GitLab and Bitbucket.  • Expert in unit testing with tools like JUnit, Mockito, TestNg and Integration testing tools Work Experience Full stack developer BNY Mellon - New York, NY January 2018 to July 2019 DTE (Digital Transaction Engine) is a core business web application to help users to verify, validate and enrich the trade and finally make settle down the trade to downstream systems. Basically, captures the trades in fax and message formats and process as instructions and submit to workflow.    ? Work on process which strictly follows Scrum, involved in every sprint iteration and works on assigned stories in Jira board.  ? Plan, analyze the requirements and make UML design using tools like Rational Rose and Star UML, also uses several prototyping tools for design the requirements.  ? Work on UI using HTML, CSS, Java Script and Angular 4.  ? Develop core business logic using Java 8 and utilizing important features of Java 8, also ensures quality, efficiency, and reusability of code.  ? Ensures best possible performance, works with different multithreading frameworks and cache techniques using Hazelcast IMDG and Redis Cache to promise performance.  ? Uses Java frameworks like Spring core modules, Spring Boot to implement Restful Services and Spring JPA to persistence and Postman and Swagger UI to test and document the services.  ? Design and develop microservices using Spring Boot, Spring Cloudprojects which includes Netflix OSS, Netflix eureka, Ribbon, and Zuul.  ? UsesApache Kafka for integration and data processing with spring for multithreaded message consumption.  ? Workflow development using Activiti Engine, and implemented basic business rules using Drools Engine.  ? Work with different data sources, Oracle RDBMS, Mongodb which is NoSQL Db and work on custom SQL queries.  ? Develops Dashboards for all the existing applications and Splunk reports that high level overview of Application health.  ? Use different Unit testing frameworks like JUnit and Mockito to test the piece of the code.  ? Perform Manual testing, regression, white box, and integration testing. And closely, work with QA team to ensure the quality.  ? Work on setting up Maven Scripts to build, package and deploy application to target Apache tomcat servers and Continuous Integration and Continuous Development (CI/CD) pipeline using GitHub and Jenkins, involves in deployment process and be available until application go alive    Environment: Angular 4, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, NPM, Java 8, Activiti Engine, Drools Engine, RESTful Webservices, Spring Boot, Micro Services, Kafka, Oracle, Tomcat, Mongo DB, JUnit, Mockito, GitHub, Jenkins, Swagger, docker, Maven, Kibana, Postman. Java Developer Renkim Corporation - Detroit, MI December 2016 to January 2018 Description:Renkim is a brokerage company that creates secure print and mail solutions for the automotive industry.  Worked on a web application that manages and automates mailing solutions and which leverages existing some of the old system functionalities and implemented micro service architecture.    Responsibilities:  • Developed application on Micro Service Architecture using Spring Boot and Angular 2.0 to integrate and communications with the already existing applications.  • Designing and implementing the User Interface using Angular 2.0, HTML5, CSS3, SASS andBootstrap for responsive design for the exposed enterprise application.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using component-based architecture provided by Angular.  • Used reactive forms, template driven forms and written pipes in Angular 2 to transform thedata according to the customer's requirement.  • Experienced in creating services with Angular2 injectable property, as to make the serviceavailable for dependency injection when creating components and worked withcustom directives.  • Proficient in using Angular 2.0 to create views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize datawith server as a Single Page Applications (SPA).  • Worked on various features in ES6 such as Arrow functions, Classes andenhanced object literals.  • Performed Verification and Validation process for the code written by making use of Jasmine andKarma JavaScript framework by testing across various scenarios of the Angular2 applications.  • Designed and developed Spring Boot web service using Spring Boot and Jersey framework.  • Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud Micro Services and develop Springbased application with very less configuration.  • Migrating existing application into REST based Microservices to provide all the CURD capabilities using Spring Boot.  • Used JPA as the Object-Relational Mapping (ORM) tool to access the persistent data from database Server.  • Documented the REST API's using Swagger2 API for briefing the services involved in theapplication.  • Used the fundamentals of Java 8 like parallel streams and filters through lambda expressions tohandle the searching.  • Worked on Docker and Kubernetes integration to build apps with Docker and seamlessly test and deploy them using Kubernetes.  • Experience in Spring Security Frameworkfor User Access Management, JWT (Json Web Token) token-based authentication.  • Very Proficient Knowledge of JIRA to track issues and communicate with other teams at variousenvironments.  • Worked with enterprise-grade directory services such as LDAP and Active Directory (AD) and worked with integration of SSO systems.  • Developed Maven scripts and developed builds using Maven and continuous build pipeline likeJenkins with GitHub Repository.  Environment: Angular 2, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, NPM, React JS, Redux, Node JS,Gulp, RESTful Webservices, REST Services, Webpack, Jasmine, Karma, Spring Boot, Jersey, Micro Services, Kafka,JWT, AWS, AWS S3, Cassandra DB, JIRA,GitHub, Jenkins, Swagger,docker, Maven, JIRA, GitHub.    Java Developer, Thomas Cook Airlines - Chennai, Tamil Nadu October 2014 to December 2016 Chennai, India. Oct 2014 - Dec 2016    ThomasCook Airways is constantly growing and evolving environment with new products. I have worked on Reservation system project and specifically redesigned and implemented payment pages for the system. The Payment pages makes a host service calls to VISA, PAYPALL, UBC, etc. to offer the end user with multiple payment options.  Responsibilities:  • Developed non-functional HTML, CSS pages from the mockups and involved in UI review with UI leads and Business Units.  • Used HTML5, CSS, jQuery, Ajax and performed client-side validations using JavaScript  • Worked with Angular JS including authoring complex directives, services, controllers and filters.  • Used AngularJS Factories and Services to make Restful Calls to get data in JSON Format.  • Developed and consumed SOAP Web Servicesusing JAX-WS and frameworkApache CXF andRESTful webservicesusing JAX-RSframework jerseyand used AXIS to send service requests to Web Services.  • Developed Web services component using XML, WSDL, and SOAPwith DOM parser to transfer andtransform data between applications.  • Developed customer authorization for external Systems using JAX-WS/SOAPweb services.  • Executed web service test scenario by using SOAP UI and automated test case using SOAP UIandGroovy Scripting.  • Developed EJB based JAX-WS Web Services and Jersey REST based Web services associated with business modules integration  • Created new REST web service operations and modified the existing web service's WADLs Web Application Description Language  • Created RESTful based Web Services and used SOAP UIto test for send and receive XML data andworked with JMS Queues for sending messages in point-to-point mode communication.  • Testing the message flows using SOAP-UI.  • Utilized Core Java concepts such as Collections, Multithreadingand Exception handlingtodevelop business components.  • Implemented Hibernate Criteria queriesfor data retrievals and have performed the ORMmappings to map java entities to database tables.  • Configured Hibernatesecond level cacheusing EH cache to reduce the number of hits to theconfiguration table data.  • Developed an automated application using JMS for messagingand JNDI to interact with theServer.  • Extensively worked with JMS API for sending messages between two or more clients and worked JMS Queues for sending messages in point-to-point mode.  • Worked with Java Massaging service (JMS) Publish/subscribe applications with ActiveMQ.  • Used Gulp for modification of JavaScript files and for monitoring the application.  • Authenticating Users and to provide the security to RESTful web services using OAuth.  • Build PL/SQL functions, stored procedures, views and configured Oracle Database 10g with JDBC data source with connection pooling enabled.  • Configured plugins for Apache HTTP server to proxy the request for JBoss Fuse, JBoss EAP andWebLogic server.  • Developed test driven development (TDD) code using JUnit and Mockito framework.  • Used Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  • Developed the Mavenscripts for preparing WAR files used to deploy J2EE components    Environment: JAVA/J2EE, EJB, JSF, JMS, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular JS, jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, XML, Apache CXF, REST Services,JAX RS, Jersey, WADL, OAuth, JMS, Hibernate, EH Cache, JBoss Fuse, JBoss EAP, WebLogic server, Maven, Karma, Jasmine, JUnit, Mockito,ORACLE, Active MQ. Java/J2EE Developer OpsRamp, Inc - San Jose, CA September 2013 to October 2014 Description:OpsRamp offers software as a service (SaaS) to monitor enterprise devices and a web application manages and tracks the healthiness of devices. Designed and Developed a web application which shows all the devices status and help the clients to add, checks and solve issues. My role is to involve in all phases of software development life cycle and working in all tires of the web application.  Responsibilities:  • Implemented responsive web-based applications using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, andjQuery.  • Involved in Design UI Screen, created several mockup Using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed client-side validation code using JavaScript and html validation attributesbefore theyare submitted to the server.  • Used jQuery in developing the Rich Internet Applications (RIA) with AJAX mechanism and JSON asa data exchange tool.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) on the application likeRequirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code Development.  • Configured DispatcherServletand View Resolverto intercept incoming requests, manage SpringMVC flow and invoke view components with the help of DispatcherServlet.  • Created Stored Procedure, Triggerfor database access and events.  • Implemented various Business rules in the drl (drools file) using Drools rule engine.  • Used Spring IOC for dynamic bean injection and Spring AOP to modularize cross-cutting concernsin aspects.  • Developed web application using spring, and iBatis framework.  • Implemented persistence layer using Spring JDBCthat uses the POJOs (which do not have thebusiness processes) to represent the persistence database tuples.  • We kept up bean life cycle by utilizing Spring IOC which keep up session information of beans.  • Worked with Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  • Implemented IBM WebSphere Application Server to deploy the application.  • Developed test cases by using TestNG for unit testingfor each module developed in test drivendevelopment.    Environment:HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JSON, JavaScript, jQuery, Spring framework, Spring IOC,Multithreading, Spring MVC, Spring Batch, Stored Procedure in MySQL, SpringAOP, IBatis, Spring JDBC, MySQL, PL/SQL, XML, IBM, TestNG, JUnit, WebSphere Application Server, Tomcat. Java Developer Care Hospitals - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2012 to September 2013 Description:Care Hospitals is a 4 largest healthcare chain of multi-specialty healthcare hospitals with 14 hospitals in 6 cities across 5 states of India. Our Project was to develop a Hospital Management System. My role as a Developer was to understand requirement documentation and design and develop application using web technologies that leverages the classical Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture.  Responsibilities:  • The application is developed based on Model View Controller (MVC) architecture and developed Form and Action Classes for the entire application using EJB and Struts Framework.  • Prepared EJB deployment descriptors using XML and Used JAXB components for transferring the objects between the application and the database.  • Dynamics from generation auto completion of forms and user-validation functionalities using jQuery.  • Configured Struts-config.xml, Tiles-def.xml and properties file provided by Struts Framework for the implemented modules.  • Implemented connectivity to databases using JDBC from servlets and JSP through Enterprise Java Beans (EJB).  • Developed Web pages using JSP and used Struts Validation framework for form input validations.  • Build PL/SQL functions, stored procedures, views with JDBC data source with connection pooling enabled.  • Worked on the JavaScript Library that simplifies HTML document traversing, and event handling.  • Performed SQL tuning by creating index on the existing table and stored procedures for efficient querying.  • Deployed the enterprise web application using JBoss Application Server.  • Involved in complete development of 'Waterfall Methodology' and tested the application within each iteration. Setting up Daily Status meetings with team and communicate Status to Project Manager.  • Worked with testing team analyze and fixed the production defects and deployed the applications on the server.  • Reviewed Design Document gathered information from Architect and Business Analyst to design Functional Specifications for this UI Interface Project.    Environment: Java/J2EE, EJB, JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JBoss, Subversion (SVN), MySQL, SQL Developer, JDBC, Servlets, Struts 2.0 framework, Tomcat. Education Bachelor's in computers science and Engineering in computers science and Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Kakinada, Andhra Pradesh Skills C#, Cucumber, Git, GRADLE, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, JENKINS, PYTHON, SVN, XML, BEA, BEA WEBLOGIC, EJB, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, JAX, JAX-WS, JBOSS Additional Information Technical Skills:  Java/J2EE Technologies Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JDBC, JMS, JNDI, JTA, EJB, JSF, JMS, Swings, Multi-threading, Java Networking, Streams and Lambda's  Programming Languages Core Java, C, C#, Python, JavaScript  Application/Web Servers: Oracle/BEA WebLogic, IBM WebSphere, JBoss, Tomcat  Frameworks Spring 3.x/4.x/5.x, Hibernate  Web technologies JSP, jQuery, AJAX, XML,HTML, DHTML, CSS3, HTML5, Angular 2.0/4.0, Node js.  Web Services frameworks JAX-WS, JAX-RS, Apache CXF, Axis, Jersey  Testing technologies/tools JUnit, JMeter, Selenium, Cucumber, Spock, Mockito, TestNg, Mockito, Karma, Jasmine, Protractor.  Database Servers Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL, PostgreSQL  Version Control SVN, GIT, Bitbucket, GitLab  Build Tools ANT, Maven 3.0, Gradle, NPM, Jenkins