Java Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Full Stack Developer - Wyndham Destinations Carmel, IN • Having 7+ years of professional experience of developing enterprise applications using Object Oriented methodologies, enterprise technologies, frameworks and design patterns.  • Experience in all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle - analysis, design, development, deployment, testing and maintenance of enterprise applications.  • Proficient in using various design patterns such as MVC, Data Transfer Object, Value Object, Singleton, Service Locator, Session Façade, Factory Pattern and DAO.  • Experience developing front-end components using JSP, HTML5, CSS, and JavaScript, Ajax.  • Excellent understanding and expertise in web tier frameworks like Struts and Spring MVC.  • Knowledge in all components of struts-config file. Well-versed with various struts actions classes.  • Hands on development experience in Core Java and J2EE Design Patterns.  • Excellent hands on experience on Struts framework and extensively used Validator Framework and Tiles Framework  • Expertise in Web page creation using HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, Less CSS.  • Used Angular JS as the development framework to build a single-page application.  • Expertise in developing Middle-Tier components using Enterprise Java Beans (EJB) and other Remote Components  • Good Experience of Object Relational mapping frameworks like Hibernate and JPA  • Good knowledge and experience in implementing open source frameworks Hibernate and Spring  • Expertise in development using Servlets, JDBC, JNDI, Spring, Hibernate, JSF, EJB2.0/3.x, XML, Web Services- SOAP, WSDL, REST(JAX-RS), Micro Services.  • Excellent knowledge and experience in SQL queries, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures to interact with Oracle and MS SQL Server databases  • Expertise in Code reviews, Bug fixes and Unit & System testing  • Expertise in troubleshooting Production incidents/issues  • Expertise in developing Service Oriented Architectures (SOA) and clients to use Web services.  • Well versed with all parts of WSDL.  • Hands-on experience in implementing RESTful Web services.  • Used various web servers like Apache Tomcat, Camel-JBOSS and IBM Web Sphere  • Good knowledge with Cassandra NoSql database.  • Experience on different Operating Systems - Windows 2003/2008/XP/Vista/7, Linux and Unix  • Experience with automation using GIT Docker Jenkins, Ansible, and Chef  • Experience with Virtualized the servers using Docker for the test environment and dev environments needs, also configuration automation using Docker containers.  • Experience in using Version Control Systems like CVS, SVN and Clear Case  • Good interpersonal skills, excellent verbal, written and presentation skills and can work both independently and in a team  • Received Appreciations for Successful and Smooth rollout of the Enterprise Applications in the Production environment. Work Experience Java Full Stack Developer Wyndham Destinations - Carmel, IN July 2018 to Present Wyndham Destination is one of the known World's largest Exchange and vacation ownership Company. RCI is part of the Wyndam Worldwide family which enable the Customers RCI has developed over the past four decades as the leader in vacation exchange, including inventory management, member marketing and analytics. The company will also enjoy the added resources that come with being part of a global hospitality leader.    Responsibilities:  • Developed new service which makes call to the AU ( available units page)  • Involved in various phases of SDLC of the application which involves Design , Development , Testing, and Requirements gathering  • Created and used the REST API while navigating through the AU page in the application  • Also implemented Micro Service architecture for two modules AU rental and created listener  • Used OAuth for generating tokens which helps in authentication  • Developed a rich view client interfaces for web application using AJAX/jQuery  • Used Tiles Framework in the application which is based on MVC pattern  • Used Hibernate framework for interacting with Oracle DB for performing CURD operations  • Used Log4j for logging the flow of the application  • Used Jenkins for the continuous integration of the project  • Used Junit framework for through UnitTesting the application  • Used the MAVEN for building the application  • Used SQL statements and procedures to fetch the data from the DB  • Used JIRA for tracking the status of the project and also for logging the bugs  • Used GIT for efficiently managing the source code versions with the development team  • AGILE (scrum) development methodology has been followed to develop the application participated in the sprint  • Configured and deployed the application in Apache Tomcat application server.    Environment: Core Java, J2EE, Spring 4.x, Hibernate, JSP, Restful Web Services, Spring Boot, AJAX, SQL, XML, JSON, HTML, Angular JS, CSS, Java Script, Log4j, Sonar Qube, GTM, Maven, Apache Tomcat, Oracle DB, GIT, Eclipse. Sr. Java Developer Expedia - Springfield, MO January 2017 to June 2018 Expedia is an online travel company that offers global services over 30 countries including booking airline tickets, hotel reservations, car rentals, cruises and tourist services. Worked on the web application 'Travel Portal' allows web users to look up for flight, hotel, vacation and car rental deals, promotions and book them online    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for designing and developing high performance throttling service.  • Used Agile practices and Test- Driven Development(TDD) techniques to provide reliable, working software early and often.  • Created rest client API for the application.  • Worked on AJAX implementation to retrieve the content and for displaying it without reloading the existing page.  • Developed user interface using JSP, Java Script, HTML5 and CSS.  • Involved in the development of project back-end logic layer by using most of the core java features such as Collection Framework, Interfaces, and Exception Handling programming.  • Tested the entire application using JUnit.  • Implemented batch configuration in spring boot application. Created the Maven project to integrate spring boot, Restful API, Oracle & Microservices.  • Used Spring Boot at back-end which helps to develop application with ease  • Participated in Build & Deployment activities using Gradle build scripts.  • Involved in various SDLC Life cycle phases like design, development, testing, documentation, deployment & maintenance of application software.  • Development involved technologies like Java, J2EE (Multithreading, JNDI, XML Parsers), JSP, Servlets and Spring MVC.  • Implemented business logic using Session Beans, Servlets and Stored Procedures.  • Developed Data Access Objects to handle HQL queries using Hibernate and Transfer objects.  • Developed various helper classes using Core Java multi-threaded programming and Collection classes.  • Apache Ant was used for the entire build process.  • AngularJS to consume restful services.  • Used Hibernate ORM Framework for the persistence layer.  Learned and used bamboo which is the new way of deployment and build process.  • Developed JSP pages, Controller, Helper & Validator classes for the application. Used JavaScript for client-side validation.  • Writing SPA (Single Page Application) using AngularJS.  • Used AngularJS as the development framework to build a single-page application.  • Used JIRA for project stories, defect tracking and raising different type of severity of the defects. Familiarity with Service oriented architecture (SOA) by developing and consuming Restful web services based on JAX-RS and Jersey.  • Designed Presentation layer using JSP, Struts framework and did front-end validations using JavaScript and JQuery.  • Developed application using AngularJS to implement Single Page Architecture (SPA).  • Used log4j for logging info and are helpful in debugging the issues.  • Used GIT Bash as a version control tool.  • Improving the coding standards, code reuse, and performance of the application by making effective use of various design patterns.  • Used ng-table, ng-grid and various types of Angular Directives.  • Opened CRQs to deploy the application in Stable and Production environments and deployed the application in Development, DB-Dev, Stable and Production environments and validated the application upon successful deployment.  • Worked on Vagrant development environment for local verification.  • Prepared and executed test cases for Unit, System and Integration testing using JUnit.  • Used log4j for logging info and also for debugging the issues.  • Worked on Sonar for the check style issues.  • Used Crucible for reviewing the code.    Environment: Spring, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, CSS, Hibernate, Struts2, HTML5, JavaScript, JSP, JSTL, Junit, Oracle 11g, Log4j, Maven, Ant, Gradle, XML, Windows, JQuery. Sr. Java Developer American Express - Manhattan, NY October 2015 to December 2016 American Express Company, also known as Amex, is an American multinational financial services corporation where the customers are interacting daily with their web site as part of their daily transactions. This site will be handling different types of business like rewards, travel, cards and business.    Responsibilities:  • Developed application using Agile/Scrum methodology.  • Implemented various design patterns like facade Design Pattern, DAO, DTO, Singleton, view resolver. Developed GUI using Angular.JS, HTML5, JavaScript, JSP, AJAX, and CSS.  • This Application was developed using Spring-MVC, Spring Web flow, and IoC/Dependency Injection, Restful and SOAP web services integrating different layers of the application.  • Communicating with different web Services by using Spring Integration.  • Wrote Interceptors, Validators and loggers using Spring MVC frame work.  • Wrote Hibernate classes, DAO's to retrieve & store data, configured Hibernate files.  • Developed Java Persistence API (JPA) through Hibernate  • Also implemented the Project structure based on Spring MVC pattern using spring boot.  • Worked on Spring-JDBC in development of DAO Layer.  • Worked in establishing JMS for sending Reminder mails to Users for reminding the application of Credit Cards using Cheetah Mail Service.  • Implemented various SQL queries and assisted in writing Stored Procedure for Application field validations, phone class assigned etc. Worked with JQuery for the front end development of the application. Implemented various validation controls for client-side validation with Angular.js and HTML5.  • Developed several SOAP based JAX-WS Webservice interfaces for integrating multiple systems, code re-usability.  • Developed and re-used ANT Scripts as part of Application Build process.  • Implemented REST Web Services within the application with the use of URI templates and content negotiation. Associated the design patterns within the core Java back-end design and development. Used lots of data structures, collections, exception handlings and multithreading programming during the module implementation including customer info module, statement module and other with core Java.  • Managed AWS ec2 instances using Autoscaling and Elastic load balancer.  • Created computing and data resources on AWS using EC2. Installed Pivotal Cloud Foundry on EC2 to manage the containers created by PCF.  • Implemented Micro Services based Cloud Architecture on AWS Platform and Pivotal Cloud Foundry.  • Worked with AWS to implement the client-side encryption as Dynamo DB does not support at REST encryption at this time.  • Application was developed using JBOSS Developer Studio IDE and STASH for version control and deployed using JBOSS Server in Windows environment.  • Worked on SQL Query Optimizations and performance tuning of frequently used SQL Queries.  • Performance testing, optimization of Throughput and increase of Scalability of the application by using Angular.js.  • Used AngularJS MVC framework to create Models and Collections that includes logic to interact with REST services. Created User Interface in DOJO/AJAX and Struts2 tags for different customized screens for each type of user.  • Worked on Jenkins to provide continuous integration services for software development. Responsible for data validation on the Client side by using JavaScript and JQuery.  • Worked on Integration on the Project modules of UI Layer, Presentation Service Layer and Shared Services Layer for the Production.  • Provided production support for the release of the Projects.  • Wrote JUnit Test Cases for action classes and service layer classes.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring IOC/Dependency Injection, Struts2, Maven, Junit, Agile/Scrum, JPA, JDBC, JMS, JAXB, DB2 Server, SQL Developer, Log4j, REST and SOAP Web Services, AngularJS, Maven, Jboss Server, JBoss Developer Studio, GIT, Jenkins, Ant, Windows. Java Developer IndoGlobal health Sciences December 2013 to August 2015 The objective of APM (Advanced Patient Management) is to develop a web based system to monitor the patient condition by the physician by using Latitude devices and to eliminate many office visits by a patient. In-home remote follow-up can increase patient satisfaction and improving physician workflow.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzing System Requirements and preparing System Design document, Mockup documents.  • Full life cycle experience including requirements gathering, business analysis, high level design, detailed design, data design, coding, testing, and creation of functional documentation.  • Expertise in Core Java coding and development using Multithreading and various design Patterns.  • Used agile methodology such as extreme programming(XP) to improve the quality of code and to meet the change in customer requirements even at the late stage of development process.  • Developed the presentation Tier using HTML, JSP, and JavaScript.  • Used Struts Validation framework to perform the client-side validations.  • Used EJB Session Beans to develop the business logic.  • Used JSTL and developed custom tag libraries to use in the JSP.  • Used Hibernate ORM Framework for the persistence layer.  • Used XML, XSD to design the SOAP based web services.  • Consumed SOAP based web services.  • Used design patterns such as Singleton, Service Location, Business Delegate, Session Façade and DAO.  • Develop the code for GUI using JAVA, JSP, JavaScript, Ajax, spring, Hibernate and HTML.  • Used AJAX extensively to create user specific search in an application  • Developed Unit Test Cases using JUnit.  • Implemented collection framework using Hash maps, Linkedlist, Tree map.  • Used Eclipse as the IDE.  • Hands on experience with Core Java with multithreading, Concurrency, Exception Handling, File handling, IO, Generics and Java collections  • Used Ant for the build and deployment.  • Used Clear Quest for Defect Tracking purposes.  • Used Rational Clear Case for revision control.  • Used UNIX environment to deploy the applications into QA environments.    Environment: J2EE, JSP, JQuery, JSTL, MVC Design, HTML, SQL Server, Struts, Hibernate, HTML, XML, AIX/Unix, XML Spy, CVS, WebSphere Application Server (WAS), Sonar, CSS, web services, RQM, RSA, Clear Case & Clear Quest. Java/J2EE Developer HSBC August 2011 to November 2013 HSBC Group is one of the world's leading banking and financial service organizations. The main application is a web-based application, which included many modules of Retirement plan like 401(k), IRA, Defined Benefits, Profit sharing and Defined Contributions. I was involved in working on the Defined Benefits module. This application was mainly used to track participant and retiree data for the customer, including plan information such as: status, service and earnings, and participant contact data.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented Struts MVC design pattern and front controller pattern to this project.  • Developed user interface by creating at least one webpage for each component using Struts web MVC and Action Servlet as front controller for this application.  • Developed Action Class components for performing business process execution and involved in configuration of struts configuration specific xml file.  • Developed SCM by using the JSP/HTML like one form for each functionality user interface, standard validations using the JavaScript, Servlets used as the controllers for the business logic and business logic using JDBC, XML parsing techniques etc., using MVC. Contributed to the development of web interface for User module and Admin module using JSP, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, and Action Servlets with Struts Framework.  • Developed Single-Sign-on (SSO) functionality, through which we can run SCM from Oracle Applications.  • Involved in developing the Routings and configured Routing Program as scheduled the concurrent request.  • Developed Server-Side components for the business services for creating Items, BOM, Sourcing Rules, and substitute.  • Involved in raising the Notifications to Oracle Users through Mailing Concept for intimating to start the next process using workflow.  • Extensively worked on Oracle for writing complex queries in the business logic layer. Used joins, debugging the SCM related packages and customization.  • Extensively worked on creating the setups for Organizations, Templates, Concurrent Requests, Cross Reference Types, User Creations, assigning responsibilities, creating value sets, Descriptive Flex Fields etc., in Oracle Applications.    Environment: Java, JDBC, Servlets, Struts, JSP, Hibernate, Java Mail API, AJAX, ANT, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, XML, ANT, Log4J, SVN, RAD, WebSphere, Putty, TOAD, Oracle 9i/10g Education B Tech in EEE in EEE JNTU Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages: C, C++, JAVA, J2EE  Java/J2EE: Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, Java Beans, JDBC, EJB Web Services,  Database Query Language: SQL, Oracle, MS SQL Server, MYSQL, DB2  Markup/Script Languages: HTML 4/5, CSS 2/3 JavaScript, XML and jQuery  Frameworks: Struts, Spring, Spring Boot Hibernate, JavaScript, AngularJS, Web services SOAP, SOP, Restful  Web Technologies: XML, WSDL, SOAP, DOM, CSS, HTML, 0 JAVASCRIPT and AJAX  Application/Web servers: WebSphere8.0, Apache Tomcat, WebLogic 8.x/7.x, and Jboss.  IDE Tools: Eclipse, RAD, Jdeveloper 9.0, Teradata, Visual Studio and Net Beans  Operating Systems: Windows NT/XP/2000, Unix, Linux, Redhat Linux, Mac OS and UNIX  SCM Tools: CVS, Perforce, Clearcase, SVN, Subversion, GIT  Testing Tools: Junit, Mockito  Build and Automation: Maven, ANT, Gradle, Jenkins, JIRA