Sr Java/AWS Developer Sr <span class="hl">Java</span>/AWS <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Java/AWS Developer - L.L.Bean Inc Freeport, ME • Over 9 years of IT experience in the areas of Analysis, Design, Development, Coding, Implementation and Testing of web based multi-tier applications using Java/J2EE technologies  • Experience in designing highly transactional web-sites using J2EE technologies and handling design/implementation using UML/Eclipse  • As J2EE developer extensively involved in development Distributed and Object-Oriented Applications using Java, J2EE, XML and Relational Databases.  • Experience in Integration of Amazon Web Services (AWS) with other applications infrastructure.  • Good understanding of ORM technologies such as JPA, Hibernate, MyBatis and Spring JDBC.  • Expert in Spring Core, Spring MVC, Spring Dependency Injection, Spring ORM, Spring Web Flow, Spring DAO, Spring AOP, Spring Security and Hibernate.  • Experience in server-side programming like Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JNDI and JMS.  • Good experience on application servers like Apache Tomcat, JBoss, Web Logic & Web Sphere.  • Experience in development of software applications using front end technologies like JSP, JSTL, SpEL JavaScript, JQuery, HTML5, CSS, XML, XSLT and AJAX.  • Extensive experience in Angular.JS for application implementation, proficient in creating modules, controllers, route Providers, factory services, ng-repeat, customizable filter, http get/post methods and directives to realize functionalities like REST service with Ajax call, input validations, searchable and sortable contents.  • Experience in developing application in Single Page (SPA's) using various JavaScript frameworks such as Angular JS.  • Experience in Sitecore Hosting Architecture with Separating Authoring and Delivery Web Servers.  • Strong experience in UI &client-side validations using HTML 5, CSS3, Java script, JSP, Struts tag libraries, AJAX, JSON, XML, XSLT and java script frameworks like ExtJs 3.x/4.x, JQuery.  • Developed and tested utilities to interact with SOAP web services.  • Developed RESTFUL web services using Spring Framework.  • Extensively reviewed the code for Application Security.  • Extensive programming in Java, J2EE using Eclipse and RAD tools  • Good knowledge in Java architecture and developing the applications using Java/J2EE design Patterns such as MVC, Singleton, Factory, Transfer Objects, Front Controller and Data Access Objects (DAO).  • Strong experience in Scrum, UML and Test-Driven Methodologies.  • Experience in Design and Development of database systems using Relational Database Management Systems MS SQL Server, DB2, Sybase and Oracle.  • Expertise in EDI transactions used in healthcare industry  • Strong Experience in writing complex SQL queries, stored procedures, PL/SQL and triggers.  • Developed and maintained complex stored procedures, triggers, functions and ad-hoc SQL scripts in a highly normalized Sybase database.  • Designed the data models to be used in data intensive AWS Lambda applications which are aimed to do complex analysis creating analytical reports for end-to-end traceability, lineage, definition of Key Business elements.  • Good 3+ year experience working on NoSQL databases such as MongoDB.  • Expertise in client scripting language and server side scripting languages like JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, bootstrap, Angular.js, JSF and JSP  • Strong programming skills and development experience using Web Services  • Experience in testing Web services using SOAP UI tools and RESTFUL web services  • Experience in Building the CI/CD process from scratch.  • Experienced in Gitlab CI and Jenkins for CI and for End-to-End automation for all build and CD.  • Experience in writing JUnit and DB Unit test cases in test driven environment.  • Developed and Integrated Struts with JSP and Struts Custom Tag Libraries.  • Well experienced on Code Review, Testing (Unit Testing) and Code fixes based on review and test results.  • Extensively used IBM WebSphere Integration Developer(WID) to implement SOA  • Experience working extensively on both Unix/Linux based and Windows environments.  • Good knowledge on Coherence/hazel cast.  • Helped maintain Cloud Foundry Build pack for a few months.  • Performed configuration, deployment and support of cloud services including Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Experienced in Work load migration on AWS cloud.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services (AWS)  • Hands on experience with one or more Cloud Infrastructure and Services like Amazon AWS  • Good knowledge on AWS DevOps tools.  • Articulate in written and verbal communication along with strong interpersonal, analytical, and organizational skills.  • Highly motivated team player with the ability to work independently and adapt quickly to new and emerging technologies.  • Experience in handling messaging services using Apache Kafka. Work Experience Sr Java/AWS Developer L.L.Bean Inc - Freeport, ME May 2019 to Present Description: Involved in the development and enhancements of a SOLR search project called "Findability" where the main goal of the project was to enhance the search feature of the retail website and make it efficient for the customers. It is integrated with a third-party search tool called "FUSION" for their SOLR search feature.    Responsibilities:  • Developed Rest architecture based web services to facilitate communication between client and servers.  • Extensively worked on business, front end and persistence tier using the Spring MVC, Hibernate, JSP, and JQuery.  • Extensively involved in coding with core Java concepts like Collections, Exception Handling, Java I/O, and Generics to implement some business logic.  • Working with Responsive Web design using Bootstrap.js.  • Developed and Implemented Restful Web Services using Spring REST Framework.  • Used the light weight container of the Spring Frame work to provide architectural flexibility for inversion of controller (IOC).  • Implemented the caching mechanism in Hibernate to load data from Oracle database.  • Maintaining Sybase stored procedures and migrating Index calculation for Sybase data.  • Developed stored procedures, Triggers and functions in Oracle 10g using PL/SQL and mapped it to POJO models using Hibernate annotations and also established data integrity among all tables.  • Developed HQL and Criteria queries to access database from middle tier.  • Involvement in Setup and designing the website from scratch using Sitecore 8.0  • Implemented Sitecore/MVC design pattern for developing the Web Application.  • Wrote Stored Procedures, Packages, and PL/SQL scripts are used to query the database.  • Built a RESTful API to save and retrieve agent information in Java using Spring MVC, Apache CXF and JAX-RS.  • Worked on implementing current Rest web services to one of cloud computing services AWS.  • Performed unit testing using JUNIT framework.  • Used JPA 2.0 with Hibernate as ORM provider.  • Configured Spring AOP framework to apply Logging and Transactions. Integrated MyBatis and spring, integrated tiles framework.  • Use iText to manipulate and generate PDF documents.  • Reporting using Jasper Reports through iReport Design tool.  • Implemented Sonar Qube to measure code coverage, code standard compliance, code duplication, and unit test results.  • Worked on Asynchronous messaging system using by implementing JMS through Point-Point and Publish-Subscribe MQ-Series architecture.  • Involved in writing Java API for Amazon Lambda to manage some of the AWS services.  • Built UI to modify customer accounts with AngularJS and CSS.  • Developed the front end of the application using HTML5, CSS3, JSP and JavaScript  • Migrated applications from internal data center to AWS.  • Implemented a 'server less' architecture using API Gateway, Lambda, and Dynamo DB and deployed AWS Lambda code from Amazon S3 buckets.  • Created a Lambda Deployment function, and configured it to receive events from your S3 bucket  • Setup AWS VPC's for dev, staging and Prod environments.  • Building the CI/CD process from scratch.  • Implementing gitlab CI, gitlab, docker, maven, EKS.  • Established continuous integration (CI) practices and standards for PSCU with JIRA, Jenkins, and Stash  • Involved in the configuration and setup of local web Portal server, developer machines.  • Performed J2EE application deployment using Web Logic 11 application server on Linux.    Environment: Java 1.7, Spring, Hibernate, Javascript, CSS, backbone.JS Bootstrap.js, Ajax, HTML5, PL/SQL, JDBC, Angular JS, Apache CXF, SOAP, RestFull, Web Services, Eclipse, JSP, JSTL, Servlet, Maven, XML, Itext, Jira, Jasper Report, Web 2.0, SOA, JMS, EHCache, Apache Tomcat, Weblogic 11, Linux, SVN, UML, Oracle 11g, Sybase, AWS Lambda, Amazon IAM. Sr Java/AWS Developer TAYLORMADE GOLF - Carlsbad, CA June 2018 to April 2019 Description: Involved in the development and enhancements of a B2B application called "CRICKET" that is used by the Sales Representatives, Vendors and Customers to place personalized orders for Golf related products. The application used Java in the backend and data saved to AWS cloud.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in design, develop and implementation of the application using Spring and J2EE Framework  • Designed and implemented application using Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Hibernate and Oracle Web Logic Server 10.  • Designed dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Created connections to database using Hibernate Session Factory, using Hibernate APIs to retrieve and store data to the database with Hibernate transaction control.  • Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the server to fetch data on the fly.  • Involved in testing HIPAA EDI Transactions and mainly focused on Eligibility Transactions.  • Developed Restful Web services using Spring MVC Framework. JSON data is returned to JavaScript clients.  • Developed front-end code with Ajax call in AngularJS and jQuery to retrieve data as JSON Object from controllers in back-end RESTful Server, then display the well-organized result in web pages by writing AngularJS controller, directives, services, and route providers. Also used Angular.js filter to make the data searchable and sortable.  • Designed and Developed the Application using Spring MVC and Hibernate as the ORM.  • Developed HQL and Criteria queries for CRUD operations using Hibernate as ORM.  • Worked on building & deploying Java code through Jenkins, used Jenkins Amazon Web Services (AWS) Code Deploy plugin to deploy to AWS and worked AWS Cloud management.  • Built an Application and deployed micro services in the AWS Cloud using Docker containers.  • Git as application repository and for deploying to AWS using code commit.  • Experience with Troubleshooting AWS EC2 instances for Status check through System Status checks and Instance Status checks alerts and rectifying if necessary.  • Wrote SQL queries, stored procedures, using Oracle database  • Configured and customized logs using Log4J.  • Implemented various design patterns like Singleton, Factory, Session Facade and Data Transfer pattern  • Worked with QA team for testing and resolve defects.  • Used Agile methodology named SCRUM for all the work performed.  • Application developed using MongoDB (NoSQL Database).  • Wrote scripts to massage data and feed to Sybase IQ/Oracle databases for alert generation and automated in batch cycle.  • Created responsive and adaptive Web sites using Sitecore.  • Used Sitecore publish/sync mechanism to publish to production.  • Used the Spark - Cassandra Connector to load data to and from Cassandra.  • Real time streaming the data using Spark with Kafka  • Used AWS framework for creating background and multistep workflows.  • Developed the front-end using both Core Java as well as Java Swing and involved himself in incorporating business logic in SQL code (stored procedures) using Sybase.  • Provide WebSphere Portal integration support to the development team.  • Web Logic Application Server 10.0 was used to make the data source configuration to connect the application to the required database to retrieve or update necessary information.  • Used Maven to build war and ear files to deploy on Web logic App Server.  • Developed Unit /Integration test cases using JUnit and Selenium tools and Involved in configuring and deploying the application using Web Logic , Apache HTTP.    Environment: Java 1.7, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Angular JS, Bootstrap, Spring, Hibernate 4.0, Servlets, JSP, XML, XHTML, Agile Methodology, Jenkins, Design Patterns, MongoDB, Sybase Toad, Eclipse, Maven, Log 4J, JBoss Fuse, Oracle 11g,WebLogic Server 10, Linux, AWS, Selenium, Kafka Sr Java/AWS Developer Merck - Branchburg, NJ December 2016 to May 2018 Description: Enablon is the world's leading provider of Sustainability, EH&S and Operational Risk Management Software. Merck has configured Enablon for their EH& S applications to provide a better user-friendly service.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented MVC architecture using Struts Framework.  • Designed and developed front end using HTML, CSS, JSP, Struts (tiles and tag libraries) and validation through JavaScript.  • Used Struts tag libraries to create JSPs.  • Used AJAX libraries such as JQuery and DWR.  • Implement web service using JAX-RPC.  • Create JAX-RPC handlers for pre-and post-processing of soap messages.  • Helped improve code coverage by writing JUnit for the implemented code.  • Java Mail API was used to notify the authors about document publishing status.  • Design and implement asynchronous messaging using JMS.  • Extensively used Web Services like SOAP, WSDL and UDDI to communicate between systems.  • Developed Data Access Object (DAO) components to interact with DB2 using JDBC Driver.  • Developed Model Components Action beans, Action Form beans, and Data Transfer Objects of Struts Framework.  • Worked on Oracle development, PL/SQL, stored procedures, triggers, materialized views.  • Extensively used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Used XML Schemas (XSD) for defining XML elements and attributes, and used namespaces to avoid conflict with the XML elements.  • Developed and maintained Java/J2EE distributed applications using Struts MVC framework.  • Highly involved in the configuring Web Sphere servers and database connections and deploying applications to application servers in Testing and UAT environments.  • Designed solutions, documentation, coding, and testing.  • Developed JSP pages using STRUTS frame work, Custom tags and JSTL and involved in configuring web.xml and struts-config.xml according to the struts framework.  • Worked on using middleware like MQ Series, JMS.  • Extensively used Web Services like SOAP, WSDL and UDDI to communicate between systems.  • Create stored procedure and other SQL scripts using PL/SQL.  • Implemented solutions relying on Service Oriented Architecture (SOA), using Web Services, SOAP and WSDL.  • Designed and implemented Web Services for client to retrieve Data using SOAP.  • Used Apache Subversion for source control.  • Provide technical support to production system.    Environment: J2EE, Java 1.5, JSP, JQuery, Struts, CSS, HTML, Hibernate, JavaScript, Java Security, Oracle 10g, WebLogic10.x, My Eclipse, JSTL, WindowsXP, Linux, LDAP, UNIX, CVS. Sr Java Developer AARP - Washington, DC August 2015 to October 2016 Description: AARP Services manages the wide range of products and services that are offered as benefits to AARP's members. The offers span health products, travel and leisure products, and life event services. The application provides comprehensive information of the various types of Insurance coverage offered by AARP. The website functionality was extended by providing the customers to login and performs online transactions like paying bills online and updating their insurance policy. The website was redesigned to provide customized information for the end users.    Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with business analysis team to understand the existing Application developed.  • Designed a new Banking Application (prepared Uses Cases, Sequence Diagrams, Class Diagrams, etc.)  • Used JQuery to traverse through a DOM tree and manipulated the nodes in the tree. Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using JQuery framework.  • Used JDBC in various Servlets to interact with the database.  • Designed HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript components of the user interface  • Modified JavaScript to read client side activities (events) and data and event validations.  • Developed Servlets and JSPs for managing user registration and authentication as well as limited set of transactions (including transferring money between checking and savings accounts, generating statements, etc.) and other services.  • Developed from scratch automation test framework using Java, JavaScript, SQL  • Designed and developed Application based on MVC design pattern using Struts Framework.  • Used Struts in the presentation layer for validations.  • Used Exception handling and Multithreading for the optimum performance of the application  • Created a SQL Server database, which includes tables, views, triggers, constraints, stored procedures, functions, etc.  • Managed build process using Ant  • Developed Test Cases and performed Unit Testing  • Provided production support.    Environment: Windows NT 4.0/98, Java 1.3, MS SQL Server 2005, JUnit, HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, Struts, J2EE 1.3 (Servlets, JSP, JDBC), JIRA, Tomcat 5.x, Eclipse 3.1, Windows 2000 Server/Professional Editions. JAVA/J2EE Developer Altruista Health - Reston, VA August 2014 to July 2015 Description: Involved in development of care management solutions for health plans and providers. Developed and delivered software tools, data analytics and support services that help streamline clinical and administrative processes, improve patient outcomes and reduce avoidable healthcare costs.    Responsibilities:  • Experience with creating and revising class diagrams, sequence diagrams, and entity relationship diagrams.  • Developed the application using Struts MVC, Action Classes and struts tags.  • Used XML for interchange of data between various layers of the application - Beans, User interface (JSP, HTML), Servlets, and EJBs.  • Used Object/Relational mapping Hibernate framework as the persistence layer for interacting with DB2.  • Used various J2EE design patterns, like DTO, DAO, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Session Facade and Singleton.  • Used Java Messaging Services (JMS 1.1) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information  • Used Web Services (XML, WSDL, SOAP) for communicating data between different applications.  • Used WebSphere Application Server for deploying various components of application.  • Configured and used Log4J for logging all the debugging and error information.  • Developed Ant build scripts for compiling and building the project.  • Responsible for checking all the front-end validations using JavaScript.  • Worked in web service SOAP response using payload XML.  • Wrote XSLT code, which displays XML data from customer insight.  • Also, created portlets using portal builder.  • Using DOMAPI developed payload and envelop parser to parse XML data.  • Written ANT scripts to copy compile, deploy the java classes (EAR) in to WebLogic.  • Written stored procedure (PL/SQL) and used Complex Queries with Joins in the conversion process.  • Tuned database and SQL statements and schemas for optimal performance.  • Expertise in SQL queries for the cross verification of data.    Environment: Eclipse, Struts, Tiles, MS SQL Server, JSP, HTML, CSS, Struts, JavaScript, CVS, WebSphere, Tomcat, UNIX, and JDBC. JAVA developer Tech Mahindra - Hyderabad, Telangana December 2012 to June 2014 Description: Project is a web-based multi-tier application that provides financial solution to maintain customer loan data. It lets a customer register and gives customer facility to manage loan, view transactions apply for new loans and determine the customer eligibility for new loans. The basic features are online applications for loans and assessments of customer financial history.    Description: Developed integrated sourcing solutions for large engineering organizations. The solution covers partner selection, fixed cost and time and material projects, uploading estimates, competitive bidding, awarding the contract, and tracking project progress.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in preparing the Test Plans for testing to be carried out effectively.  • Analyzed the GAP documents to created Test Scenarios and Test Cases.  • Reviewed the Test cases prepared by other team mates and suggested improvements if required.  • Was assigned extra responsibility of Testing Lead for few weeks and ensured timely execution of the Test Cases by the team.  • Tested transactions created electronically through message injection using JMS.  • Used JSP, HTML, Taglibs and CSS to create UI pages.  • Used Java script for client side validations.  • Worked on single transactions as well as bulk transactions such as Payroll Processing using Custom MVC framework.  • Used JDBC to connect with DB2 data base.  • Effective execution of the prepared Test Cases.  • Involved in writing SQL queries & PL SQL- Stored procedures & functions.  • Used separate rules to do business validation.  • Worked on the transactions involving various date calculations such as Back Dated, Present Dated as well as Future Dated.  • Tested Transactions involving Foreign exchange and tested various scenarios involving FOREX.  • Have good knowledge of other modules as well such as Accounts Management, Business Relations, Pricing, Reports Generation, etc.  • Used IBM Optim tool for data base UI.  • Build & deployment the code using Ant.  • Involved in setting up web sphere server, data sources, connection pooling and queues set up messaging.  • Involved in unit testing JUNIT and in integration testing.    Environment: Java 1.4, JSP, Servlets, Custom MVC framework, Tag libraries, Java Script, CSS, JDBC, JNDI, Oracle 8i, Java beans, Windows/UNIX, Ant, JUNIT, IBM Clear Case, QC, Edit Plus, Web Sphere, IBM Optim tool. JAVA developer Virtusa - Hyderabad, Telangana December 2009 to October 2012 Responsibilities:  • Developed Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams and Sequence diagrams to express the detail design.  • Implemented MVC architecture using spring framework developed Controllers, Form beans and configured the spring configuration file.  • Used validation framework in the application.  • Used JMS for communication for sending updates to various other applications.  • Worked with EJBs (Session and Entity) to implement the business logic to handle various interactions with the database.  • Worked on Messenger service in various modules to communicate with JMS for asynchronous communication within Loan Application System.  • Wrote stored procedures, functions and triggers in PL/SQL.  • Developed critical elements of the server framework like user authentication, access control.  • Implemented messaging interfaces for asynchronous communication.  • Deployed business components into WebSphere Application Server.  • Wrote SAX and DOM XML parsers and used SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface.  • Used XSL/XSLT for transforming and displaying reports. Developed Schemas for XML.  • Involved in design and developing re-usable web services using SOAP, XML, WSDL, UDDI, DOM, XML Schemas, JAXP, and XSL.  • Involved in writing the ANT scripts to build and deploy the application.  • Extensively used WSAD 5.1 while writing code & used CVS for version control.  • Utilized Hibernate for Object/Relational Mapping purposes for transparent persistence onto the Oracle 9i database using HQL.  • Consistently produced the highest quality code through disciplined and rigorous unit testing and integration testing.    Environment: Java, J2EE, spring 2.0, EJB 2.0, JDBC, Servlets, JSP 2.0, JSTL, XML, XSL, XSLT, JMS, JNDI, SOAP, Oracle 9i, ANT, JUnit, Web sphere Application Server 6.1, WSAD 5.1, CVS, Log4J, JavaScript, Hibernate 2.0, Windows XP. Skills Eclipse, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jax, Jaxb, Jaxp, Jax-ws, jquery, Jsf, Jsp, Struts, Database, Jdbc, Pl/sql, Sql, Html5, Mvc, Soap, Api Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages C, C++, Java, SQL and PL/SQL.  Web Technologies JSP 1.2/2.0, JDBC, JavaScript, Angular JS, AJAX, HTML5, DHTML, CSS3, XPath, XML, XSLT, ExtJS 3x/4x, JQUERY, JAXP and JAXB.  Web Services WSDL, SOAP, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, AXIS 2, CXF, REST API, JAX-RS and JERSEY.  Operating Systems Windows, Linux and UNIX.  Frameworks Struts 1.x/2.x, MVC, Spring 3.2 and Hibernate, JSF 2.1.  Methodologies Waterfall model, RUP, Agile and SCRUM.  IDE'S Eclipse 3.2, My Eclipse, Net Beans, IntelliJ and RAD.  App/web Servers WebSphere 8.1/8.2, Web logic and Apache Tomcat 5.0/6x/7x.  Issue Tracker tools Quality Center and Clear Quest.  Database Tools TOAD, IBM Optim/Data Studio and SQL Developer.  Design Tools Rational Rose, MS Visio and JUDE.  Cloud Technologies Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon RDS, AWS Lambda, Amazon SQS, AWS Identity and access management and AWS CloudWatch.  Version controlling tools CVS, SVN and IBM Clear case.