Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Great Lakes Health Connect Michigan Center, MI Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Great Lakes Health Connect March 2018 to Present Description:  Worked with the Web-based client that physicians can use to view their patients electronic records through a Web browser. Worked on restricted and secured online access of the patient demographic and clinical data. I also worked with the maintenance and enhancement of the existing application.    Responsibilities:  ? Designed and developed applications using Agile Methodology and involved in daily SCRUM meetings and sprint planning.  ? Created POJO classes and wrote JUNIT test cases for the respective POJO classes.  ? Monitored the error logs using log4j.  ? Implemented DAO crud methods to access data from database for the Object Relational Mapping and data persistence where Hibernate is used as persistence layer.  ? Designed and Developed Microservices using Spring Boot, Spring IOC, Spring Annotations.  ? Provided solutions for bug fixes in the application.  ? Used J2EE Design patterns such as DAO, DTO, Service Locator, Singleton Factory, Session Facade and Business object.  ? Developed the User Interfaces using HTML, CSS3, JSP and JavaScript etc.  ? Developed front-end code with Ajax call in Angular 4.0 and J Query to retrieve data as JSON object from.  ? Implemented Angular 4.0 services using the resource service to perform REST API calls to the backend.  ? Experience with Two way Data Binding, Components, Directives, Routing, Pipes and Services with Dependency Injection in Angular 4.0.  ? Created Angular 4.0 components, directives, models for different modules in the frontend.  ? Tested and implemented the Web Services using SOAP UI tool and Eclipse Web Services plugin.  ? Implemented consumption of SOAP Web Services, generating WSDL and used SOAP UI for API testing to test the SOAP calls using WSDL and Postman.  ? Design, investigation and implementation of public facing websites on Amazon Web Services (AWS) using RDS and AWS S3.  ? Expertise in using Dojo and Javascript in Web Sphere Portal and WCM    Environment: JAVA/J2EE, Java 1.8, JSF, Microservices, HTML5, CSS3, Javascript, jQuery, AJAX, Node.js, Angular 4.0, Restful Web Services, AWS Java Developer Highlight Industries September 2017 to February 2018 Description:  Involved in the development team to design the web application using MVC framework, Angular JS. Made the interface for communicating between the client and distributors around the world. Transaction data are captured across all trading partners and it is translated into actionable information, which helped to increase the supply chain.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in SDLC Requirements gathering Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of application using AGILE methodology (SCRUM)  ? Developed the Use Case Diagrams and Class Diagrams.  ? Used JAX-RS for producing web services and involved in writing the programs to consume the web services using Apache CXF framework.  ? Developed single page applications (SPA) using the Angular 2.0.  ? Used the DAO pattern for data access layer and JMS API for the messaging requirement.  ? Used XML and JSON for transferring/retrieving data between different applications.  ? Used Log4j for logging errors in the application.  ? Configured maven repositories and multi - component projects and scheduled projects in Jenkins for continuous integration    Environment: JAVA/J2EE, Java 1.8, JSF, Microservices, HTML5, CSS3, Javascript, Node.js, Angular.js, Restful Web Services Java Developer Ramrobazaar February 2015 to July 2017 Description:  Worked on making online shopping system. I worked on the Cart Implementation, pagination and sorting for the website. I also worked on implementing the registration and login for the main website. Other than that, I also worked on the making companies internal website, which records employees and their activities.    Responsibilities:  ? Participated in meeting with Architect to identify the scope and architecture of the project.  ? Worked closely with the Business/ Users team in translating technical requirements into application code.  ? Wrote the back end code for the services using REST APIs'  ? Worked in configuring different applications environment in the remote server like Jenkins, Tomcat.  ? Followed the MVC model and used the spring framework for developing the web layer of the application.  ? Data Operations are performed using Hibernate.  ? Implemented the design patterns like DAO, Session Facade and Business Delegate  ? Used the Log4j for logging and JUnit for the unit test cases.  ? Worked with different databases like Cassandra, MongoDB  ? Used JAXB for the purpose of binding JAVA to XML  ? Extensively used Core Java such as Exceptions, I/O, Multithreading and Collections  ? Deployed projects in Unix/Linux environment  ? Used JAVA based annotation for configuration of spring and Hibernate.  ? Used Maven for build framework and Jenkins for continuous build system.  ? Used Javascript / JQuery to validate the input given to the user interface. Java Developer Nepal Life Insurance Company - NP June 2013 to January 2015 Description:  Web based project designed for the insurance agents. Eligibility of the customers is decided based on the past records, which was automatically populated by the program. If the customer is an existing customer, then the existing rules apply, whereas if the customer is new, new rules will be applied. After policy, number is auto generated the policy details are issued to the customer.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed the system using the Spring MVC Framework, Hibernate.  ? Involved in Database Design in SQL and writing SQL queries.  ? Involved writing JUNIT test cases, unit and integration tests of the application.  ? Client pages are made using HTML, CSS, JSP, Javascript/JQuery.  ? Developed the UML diagrams consisting of Use Cases and Sequence Diagrams as per requirement of the client.  ? Used JSON for validation, documentation data required by a given application  ? Used Agile methodology to implement the application  ? Developed web services components using Apache Camel, SOAP, WSDL, JAXB and JAX-WS with java.  ? Deployed WAR applications in Web Logic.  ? Worked on timesheet-approval table using JQuery tree table plug-in    Experiences: JDK 1.5, Eclipse 3, AJAX, Servlets, JDBC, SOAP, WSDL, JAX-WS, JSON, HTML, CSS, Jquery Log4j sr java developer Great Lakes Health Connect Skills Java, Python , Ruby on Rails , R , C, C++,CUDA Spring Framework Spring MVC, AJAX, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, XML,Bootstrap,Apache Spring Framework,Hibernate,Eclipse, MySQL Workbench, Android Studio Struts 2, Spring JSF, Angular 2.0 , Angular 4.0 , Bootstrap,JUNIT Tensor flow Sublime, Netbeans, Eclipse, Jenkins Log4j, Maven , AWS and ANT MSSQL Server, MySQL Windows Apache Tomcat REST Web API, Spring Boot with Microservices Singleton, Adapter, Factory, MVC, Façade, Repository,MVC3,DAO JUNIT GIT AGILE, Waterfall Multithreading, Collections , Serialization, JDBC, Hibernate , Servlets, JSP , Tag Libraries, JDBC, Java J2Ee, Spring, Java, Hibernate Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Programming Languages Java, Python, Ruby on Rails, R, C, C++, CUDA  JAVA technologies Spring Framework  Web technologies Spring MVC, AJAX, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, XML, Bootstrap, Apache  Development Environment Spring Framework, Hibernate, Eclipse, MySQL Workbench, Android Studio  Open Source/Framework Struts 2, Spring JSF, Angular 2.0, Angular 4.0, Bootstrap, JUNIT  Other Technologies Tensor flow  Tools Sublime, Netbeans, Eclipse, Jenkins  Apache Tools Log4j, Maven, AWS and ANT  Databases MSSQL Server, MySQL  Platforms Windows  Servers Apache Tomcat  Web Services REST Web API, Spring Boot with Microservices  Design Patterns Singleton, Adapter, Factory, MVC, Façade, Repository, MVC3, DAO  Testing JUNIT  Version Control GIT  SDLC AGILE, Waterfall  J2SE Technology Multithreading, Collections, Serialization, JDBC, Hibernate,  J2EE Technology Servlets, JSP, Tag Libraries, JDBC, JNDI