Sr. Java Fullstack Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> Fullstack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Fullstack Developer - Aflac Columbus, GA • 7+ years of IT experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including analysis, design, implementation, testing and maintenance of Multi-Tier, distributed, Enterprise applications using Java and J2EE technologies  • Extensive experience in developing front-end applications using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, XML, XSLT, parsers (SAX, DOM), AJAX, JAXP, JSON, JSP, JSTL.  • Experience in programming front end and business logic implementation in Core JAVA, JSP, Servlets, Spring, Struts, JDBC, hibernate, JNDI, DWR (Ajax), JPA, JTA, JSF, JMS.  • Experience in developing front end User Interfaces with HTML, JSP, Struts, JSTL and swing components.  • Worked on Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and Expertise in design and development of SOAP/Rest web services, xml, xslt, MQ, XML Parsing and EJB's.  • Experience in REST using spring and JAX-RS. Consumed JSON object using Jackson and Apache CFX.  • Extensive usage and good understanding of Core Java concepts like OOPS, Exception Handling, Multithreading (Executor framework), Generics, Collections Framework, Serialization, Networking.  • Good knowledge of various design patterns like MVC, Singleton, DAO (Data Access Object), DTO (Data Transfer Object), Factory in the development of multi-tier distributed enterprise applications  • Proficient in middleware service development using JDBC, Spring Web MVC, Spring JDBC, Spring Security, Hibernate, Spring AOP and Web Services.  • Good experience in SOA based Web Services using SOAP, WSDL.  • Experience in Web Application Development using various frameworks such as Spring Framework Struts, JSF.  • Experience in using UNIX commands and scripting languages like Shell for the operations.  • Good understanding of client-side build tools like npm, bower, Grunt and Gulp.  • Experience in working with MQ, ActiveMQ, IBMMQ, IBM WebSphere, Portal/Application Server, BEA WebLogic, and ApacheTomcat5 application servers.  • Experience in using open source ESB products like Apache Camel, JBoss fuse.  • Experience in using GWT (Google Web Toolkit) for optimizing the code and increase the performance of web applications.  • Sound knowledge of TDD (Test Driven Development) using Junit, Log4J 1.2.17 and collaborated in developing testing plans for Unit test, System test, performance test and acceptance test.  • Worked with version control tools such as CVS, SVN, GIT for management of software systems.  • Experience in working with IDEs like Eclipse, Spring Tool Suite, NetBeans, and IntelliJ IDEA.  • Good experience in using build automation tools like Apache Ant, Maven, Gradle, Jenkins and project tracking tools like JIRA and QC.  • Hands on experience on writing test cases using JUnit, Mockito, Power Mockito, Jasmine, Selenium, TestNG and Postman for Web Service test.  • Good knowledge of AWS services like Elastic Block Storage (EBS), S3, Elastic Compute Cloud(EC2), RDS, Elastic Beanstalk, Lambda, Identity and Access Management(IAM).  • Good knowledge on Spring boot micro services that helps in creating independent services which can be deployed easily.  • Experience in using Amazon Web Services like EC2, S3, SQS, RDS,and Lambda.  • Experience in working with open source tools Selenium (Selenium IDE, Selenium RC, and Selenium Web Driver), JUnit, Eclipse and preparation of automation test framework.  • Highly motivated, quick learner, effective communication and strong analytical, organizational skills with an ability to get things done on time. Flexible to learn any technology if required. Work Experience Sr. Java Fullstack Developer Aflac - Columbus, GA June 2017 to Present Description: Jefferson Bank provides funds or loans to people with small business requirements. Applicants get their loans sanctioned based on their credit history. The applicant information is maintained in a database along with the details of the loan for repayment. This data is filtered into different categories based on parameters like type of account, loan amount, due date. The filtered data is used for statistics for generating reports.  Responsibilities:    • Worked on High level and low level system design, planning, estimation and implementation  • Developed presentation layer using JSP, HTML5, CSS3 and client validation using JavaScript.  • Created website called "Little Lights" using Angular 5, Google Firebase, JavaScript, HTML 5, CSS 3 and Bootstrap. It's a Single Page Application (SPA).  • Developed the application using Java 1.8 and implemented its features like Lambdas Expressions, Time API, Streams, functional interfaces, collectors, default methods, type interfaces, for each.  • Experience on creating Microservices with Spring Cloud, Eureka Service Discovery, Ribbon, Spring Boot, Apache Camel and REST web services  • Developed user interface using JSP, AJAX, Java, Saas, big data, cloud, POC, RBDMS, JSP Tag libraries and Struts Tag Libraries to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Experience on creating Microservices with Spring Cloud, Eureka Service Discovery, Ribbon, Spring Boot, Apache Camel and REST web services.  • Worked in teams following the Agile Scrum methodology to create full-stack applications.  • Analysis and Design of various modules using SOA and J2EE stack.  • The application flow is designed and developed using JDBC, HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Worked with Core Java technologies like Multi-Threading and Synchronization.  • Build REST web service by building Node.js Server in the back-end to handle requests sent from the front-end JQuery Ajax calls.  • Application was designed and developed using the Spring framework. Used Spring Dependency Injection to inject required services  • Designed and developed various modules of the application with J2EE design architecture, Spring MVC architecture and Spring Boot.  • Used Spring Boot with Spring Security for all types of authentication.  • Worked on the Spring Framework in integration with Hibernate ORM framework  • Spring Controllers were used with Angular JS to route the control to desired Java services  • Developed a Web Service (SOAP, WSDL) that is shared between front end and cable bill review system.  • Worked on JBoss locally and WebSphere in higher environments.  • Used Eclipse as IDE  • Used SoapUI to manually connect to the web service and check data.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using JQUERY plugins for Drag and Drop, AutoComplete, AJAX, JSON, Angular JS, Backbone JS and JavaScript, Bootstrap.  • Coded in AngularJS MVC Framework to make single page app and complex price configurations pages.  • Created web services and desktop applications to access and display data needed by support teams using HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery, Backbone.JS, CSS3, SaaS and AJAX.  • Created and Configure Microservice architecture and integrated with AngularJS application.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST API s and Spring Boot for micro-services.  • Followed Test Driven Development (TDD), Scrum concepts of the Agile Methodology to produce high Quality Software.  • Created an XML configuration file for Hibernate -- Database connectivity.  • Wrote services to store and retrieve user data from the MongoDB for the application on devices.  • Used Maven as the build tool and is scheduled/triggered by Jenkins (build tool).  • Developed stored procedures, triggers in MySQL for lowering traffic between servers & clients.  • Created connections to database using Hibernate session Factory, using Hibernate APIs to retrieve and store data to the database with Hibernate transaction control.  • Configured Hibernate objects as Spring Beans in the Spring Configuration File.  • Documented all stages of the project, generated documentation using Java API Documentation Generator (Javadoc).  • Adaptive to cloud strategies based on AWS (Amazon Web Services).  • Experience working with EC2 and S3 in AWS and Maintaining and bug fixing existing application.    Environment: Core Java, Java8, JDK 1.6, Apache Axis, Spring 3.0, Hibernate 3.0, AGILE/SCRUM Methodology, JavaScript, AngularJS, jQuery, JMS, Bootstrap, JBoss application server, JDBC, XML, WSDL, Log4J, JUnit, Restful services, AWS, Oracle, MySQL, UNIX. Fullstack Developer Ameriprise Financial, Inc - New York, NY July 2016 to May 2017 Description: Ameriprise Financial, Inc. is an American diversified financial services company to help people feel confident about their financial future. It provides financial planning, products and services, including wealth management, asset management, insurance, annuities and estate planning.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Design, Development and Support phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Designed and implemented the user interface using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and Angular JS.  • Developed Hibernate mapping files using different mapping strategies such as table per class hierarchy and also used Hibernate Persistence Strategy to interact with database.  • Developed business components using Java Objects, Core Java, Multithreading and Collections  • Developed end to end application on spring boot framework (Rest Api Application/Spring JPA using Crud repository).  • Implemented SOA architecture with Web Services using SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, REST, WADL and XML using CXF framework tool/Apache Commons.  • Involving in resolving of issues related to Prism and provisioning Microservices.  • Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly.  • Developed a tool to retrieve and send data to third party service provider this feature was implemented using REST  • Created Buckets in AWS and stored files. Enabled Versioning and security for files stored  • Used RESTFUL client to interact with the services by providing the RESTFUL URL mapping  • Built MAVEN scripts for automated deployment and for the build operation of the entire application.  • Deployed the application in WebSphere Application Server 6.0.1 and Configured JMS in the WebSphere application server to send messages on the queue.  • Spring Controllers were used with Angular JS to route the control to desired Java services.  • Implemented scripting with Ajax and XML to dynamically refresh the page contents.  • Developed Controller for request, response paradigm by Spring Controllers using Spring-MVC. Used JSON as response type in REST services.  • Involved with bug fixing on functionality, performance and designing issues with JavaScript, JQuery, HTML5, CSS3 and Angular JS.  • Developed core Java programs for all business rules and workflows using spring framework.  • Designed and developed Restful service interface using Spring MVC to the underlying customer event API.  • Good experience on DevOps tools such as Chef, Puppet, Ansible, Jenkins, GIT.  • Implemented Restful Services with JAX-RS using Spring Boot and Micro Service Architecture.  • Understanding user change requirements and analyzing the source systems and Developed UI pages using JSP and Spring MVC framework  • Developing backend services in Java and Groovy  • Responsible for maintaining and expanding AWS (Cloud Services) infrastructure using AWS Stack especially worked with database setup and maintenance and created AWS EC2 instances.  • Involved in building Restful Web services using JAX-RSAPI.  • Worked on Cloud implementation by installing, building and deploying applications using Cloud Foundry and using AWS.  • Performed Oracle Database migrations 8i, 10g to 11g Rel. 2. Incorporating new business requirements.  • Websphere is used as an Application Server to Deploy the Application.  • Experience in using JUnit and build tools such as MAVEN.  • Designed and developed the REST based Microservices using the Spring Boot.  • Created custom Plugins, templates, and functions for Angular JS application.  • Implemented Hibernate for data persistence and management.  • Analyzed and fixed issues related to REST Web services and Application responses.  • Used Maven as the build tool and Tortoise SVN as the Source version controller.  • Used Subversion (SVN) as the configuration management tool to manage the code repository.  • Performed unit testing using JUnit.  • Followed Agile Scrum methodology and used TDD for writing test cases.  • Involved in developing stored procedures and Triggers on Oracle11g  • Used AGILE methodology and participated in SCRUM meetings.    Environment: Java 1.7, J2EE, Spring Framework 4.0, Hibernate, AJAX, Oracle 11g, Web Services, AWS, Agile, REST, XML, SOA, WebSphere, JavaScript, Angular JS, NodeJS, Bootstrap, JQuery, JBOSS, JUnit, Grunt, GITHub, SQL, JMS, HTML5, JSP, CVS, CSS, MVC, Maven and SVN. Java Developer Jefferson Bank - San Antonio, TX January 2015 to June 2016 Description: This is an online insurance quoting and policy application, which enables customers to quote an insurance coverage policy through web. This application delivers online services including customer information, policy premium, and monthly payments, new product offerings and customer correspondence with the company. Auto insurance laws may vary from one state to another.  Responsibilities:  • For the development of UI, we followed the Model-View-Controller architecture for the site.  • Involved in the application development using Spring Core, Spring Roo, Spring JEE, Spring  • Aspect modules and Java web based technology Java Web Services (REST/SOA)  • Involved in development of distributed objects like EJBs (session beans), Business objects/Domain objects that fit into the architecture and various components and helper classes that were commonly used throughout the application.  • Used XML parser APIs such as JAXP (SAX) and JAXB in the web service's request response data marshalling as well as un marshalling process.  • Used AngularJs and jQuery to make the pages dynamic and two way data binding.  • Implemented AJAX functionality using jQuery, JSON and XML.  • Extensively used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Implemented dependency injection of the Spring IOC to inject beans and to integrate with O/R mapping tool Hibernate.  • Construction of UIs using jQuery, Backbone.js, Bootstrap and JavaScript.  • Developed the CRUD API for the POSEngine using Restful WebServices.  • Used JIRA Agile for project management and bug tracking.  • Used Drupal platform for developing cross browser compatible websites using agile, scrum methodologies.  • Developing and maintaining a single-page application using Backbone.js for front-end server side layer, HTML5 and CSS3 to deliver rich user experience  • Extensively used Spring IOC, spring's Hibernate support, transaction management.  • Created/managed Mongo DB/NoSQL collections. Developed Server side automation using Node.js scripting and connecting different types of SQL and NoSQL stores.  • Deployed and tested on WebSphere application server  • Used SVN and Git as version control systems. Involved in writing Jasmine tests. Used Karma and protractor for end to end testing    Environment: J2EE 1.5, JDK 1.5, HTML5, CSS3, JSP, EJB3.0, Spring, Hibernate ORM, JSP, WebSphere application server, Eclipse, Backbone.js, Node.js, jQuery, AngularJs, WLST. Java Developer Mercury Insurance Group - Brea, CA January 2013 to December 2014 Comparative rater is an application used to get the quotes for auto and home insurance policies. It acts as middleware between rating system and different third party raters. It takes XML (ACORD standard) from different third party raters and converts it into XML accepted by the rating system, gets the quote and transforms xml back to ACORD standard and sends back to the rater. In between, different transformations and mappings are applied.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Developing, enhancing and testing of the web methods flow services and java services.  • Developed web tier by using servlets JSP, Custom tag Libraries, Tiles, JavaScript, XHTML, XSLT and XML.  • Used web services for interaction between various components and created RESTful envelopes.  • Used Apache CXF, WSDL, and XML for creating RESTful web service.  • Developed asynchronous messaging systems using JMS, MDB, and MQ series.  • Responsible for writing test cases for entire project, also responsible for doing black box testing using Scala.  • Created a Front - end application using JSPs, JSF, Swing, ExtJS 3.0, GWT for registering a new patient and configured it to connect to database using hibernate.  • Developed different JSP pages (GUI) &client side user validations using JavaScript DOJO.  • Developed EJB component to implement business logic using session and Message Bean.  • Integrated activate catalog to get parts using JMS.  • Tested the API responses for the WCS changes deployed on continuous basis, validate the Green Box response data and MongoDB data.  • Used Dojo for the client side development and validations.  • Developed and configured tables including sequences, Functions, Procedures, joins and Table constraints using Oracle Database 10g, JDBC.  • Synchronized the create, update and delete of records of all divisions between legacy database DB2 v10 and NO SQL (Cassandra 1.2.8)  • Ant build tool configuration for automation of building processes for all types of environments - Test, QA, and Production and Junit for testing.  • Involved in designing the data stage job to implement ILOG JRules Component.  • Used SVN as a version-controlling tool for managing the module developments.  Environment: Java, JDBC, JSF, RESTful, Hibernate 3.0, Core Java, Selenium, GWT, DOJO, NO SQL, Cassandra 1.2.8, Eclipse, PL/SQL, Ant, Apache Tomcat, MQSeries, Junit, JMS, JSP, MQ series, XML, JavaScript, Servlets, J2EE, Maven, ILOG, JRules, JIRA. Jr. Java Developer Macro soft Inc February 2012 to November 2012 Macro soft has a powerful combination of business experience and technological expertise that provides clients best-in-class solutions in software development projects. Macrosoft delivers high-quality, cost-effective, full lifecycle solutions to complex software development projects. The company has over 20 years of successful engagements and over 300 professionals working for an exceptional client list.    Responsibilities:  • Used Rational Clear case as the configuration management tool and Eclipse as an IDE for application development with AWS  • Developed common rest services for Save, Edit, View, Delete and Reference Data Services using document DFC APIs and JSON objects.  • Responsible for generating a result tree using XSLT  • Developed web pages using HTML/CSS and JavaScript and Implemented validation using JavaScript.  • Used Log4j for logging, JUnit for Unit Testing, CVS for configuration management  • Responsible for configuring WAS to access Database by setting Data Source  • Used XML, XSLT, and XML Schema for parsing and transforming the XML documents received from the external applications  • Involved in configuration, deployment into the Apache Server  • Responsible for implementing the business logic involved in checkout process given by Target    Environment: Java/J2EE, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AWS, Servlets, XML, XSLT, JUnit, Eclipse, Oracle, JSON, Apache Geronimo Server, Agile Methodology and Log4j. Education Bachelors of Computer Science in Computer Science R.M.K Engineering College 2011 Skills Ajax (4 years), Angular js (3 years), Apache (5 years), Bootstrap. (4 years), Css (3 years), Eclipse (6 years), J2ee (7 years), Java (7 years), Jdbc (4 years), Jms (4 years), Jquery (4 years), Json (5 years), Jsp (6 years), Maven (4 years), Oracle (5 years), Rest (4 years), Sql (4 years), web services (6 years), Websphere (4 years), Xml (7 years)