Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - CITI Corp Services Atlanta, GA • Java Developer with around 10+ years of experience in Requirements Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation, Production and Support of Java, J2EE and client-server technologies.  • Experience in developing applications using JAVA, J2EE (JSP, Servlets, JDBC),JavaScript, JQuery and HTML.  • Experience in implementation of Open-Source frameworks like Struts, Spring, Hibernate andSOAP&RESTFUL Web services  • Implemented Design patterns such as Session Façade, Abstract Factory, Singleton, Value Object, DAO, Business Delegate, Transfer Object, Command Pattern and Service Locator.  • Strong experience in database design using DDL, DML, writing complex SQL Queries and Stored Procedures.  • Used application servers like WebLogic, JBoss and ApacheTomcat, Glass Fish servers based on the client requirements and project specifications.  • Worked extensively with Java including threads, TCP/IPsockets, Swing, Java Servlets, and JDBC on the Solaris, UNIX platform along with the Oracle RDBMS.  • Coded Java applications on both client-side and server-side using JDBC, TCP/IP sockets, and advanced multithreading.  • Deployed the application onto the production boxes.  • Have good experience on database technologies like SQL, PLSQL, Oracle10g/11g, MySQL  • Provide ANT build tool for building and deploying the application.  • Provided Log4j support for the application for debugging the system.  • Expertise in using IDEs likeEclipse 3.0, various Configuration Management tools like CVS, Clear Case and SVN.  • Familiar with Unit and Integration Testingusing andJUnit.  • Ability to be creative and take self-initiatives and execute/ manage multiple projects in parallel during time critical situations.  • Excellent team player and ability to adapt to changes quickly and efficiently.  • Effectively prepared for and organized technical inspections to review code and design models with peers and software architects.  • Experience in dealing with on-site and offshore teams, customers and stakeholders. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java Developer CITI Corp Services - Jersey City, NJ September 2018 to Present Description:  QLM(Quantum Local Markets) is a backend processing of the deals booked through the other systems like edealer. as well maintenance of Customer settlement instruction branch ,currency, customer details and also processing of deals came to QLM with insufficient information by placing in the different Queues using the front end from the portal .QLM contains Different modules like FX,MM,FI Both the Portal and Backend deal processing details configured as per their country regularities    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Developed a prototype of the application and demonstrated to business users to verify the application functionality.  • Attended everyday Enterprise Workflow Stand-Up meeting to provide current status,  • Designed Use case diagrams, Class diagrams and Sequence diagrams using UML.  • Developed and implemented the DAO design pattern including JSP, Servlets, Form Beans and DAO classes and other Java APIs.  • Implemented dynamic web interface using AJAX and user authentication through LDAP.  • Developed JSP fragments for control of the business processes in the middle-tier and did its integration.  • Extensively used TCP/IP and HTTP protocols for data communications.  • Created and deployed web pages using HTML, CSS, JSP, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Integrated usage of CRUD operations, performed Inner/Outer joins, used stored procedures, stored functions and cursors using Oracle PL/SQL.  • Worked with QA team for testing and resolve defects.  • Used ANT automated build scripts to compile and package the application and implemented Log4j for the project.  • Develop SQL queries to check the database integrity.  • Involve actively in maintaining and updating task progress on Version One.  • Created UNIX Shell programs as part of batch schedules.  • Used Eclipse IDE with My Eclipse plug-in in order to develop and deploy the application code.  • Developed Unit test cases using JUnit and involved in User Acceptance Testing and Bug Fixing.  • Participated in the code reviews for various initiatives, Performed Static Code Analysis to follow the Best Practices for Performance and Security.    Environment: Core Java /J2EE, JSP, TCP/IP, Servlets, XML, HTML, CSS, Java Script, AJAX, JSON, jQuery,  Tomcat 6.0, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, XML, Multithreading, OOD, Maven, JUnit, MQ Servers, Oracle 10g,  Oracle PL/SQL. Java Developer Visa - Austin, TX September 2017 to August 2018 Description:    Easypaisa is Mobile banking product of Telenor Bank for 'Branch-less Banking' Unit. It is implemented by using Fundamo's mobile financial services platform (FundamoMWallet).  Fundamo GBS does the branding, customization, enhancement and support for different clients.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in software development life cycle (SDLC), which includes requirement-gathering, design, coding, testing.  • Involved in Work Request Cycle 1(WR) to WR-5 in all following stages  • Designed and developed Business Services using Spring Framework (Dependency Injection)  • Implemented the business layer by using Hibernate mapping files and POJO Java classes using Object-Relational Mapping (ORM) tool.  • Developed XML configuration and data description using Hibernate. Used DAO pattern to retrieve the data from database.  • Involved in the Design of ERD (Entity Relationship Diagrams) for Relational database.  • Developed web service for web store components using JAXB.  • Implemented Business logic in the middle-tier using Java classes, Java beans.  • Used different JAX-WS standards with better understanding on WSDL, SOAP using various message patterns.  • Designed Graphical User Interface (GUI) applications using HTML5, JSP, JavaScript ,CSS, and AJAX.  • Applied MVC pattern of Ajax framework, which involves creating Controllers for implementing Classes.  • Implemented new features to deploy on Mule application servers.  • Used JUnit framework for Unit testing of applications.  • Involved in doing various testing efforts as per the specifications and test cases using Test Driven.  • Created and modified Stored Procedures and Complex SQL Commands using PL/SQL.  • Used Log4j for logging various levels of information like error, info, debug into the log files.    Environment: JDK1.6, J2EE, JDBC, Servlets, TCP/IP, HTTP, JSP, spring, Hibernate, Oracle 10, HTML5, JavaScript Prototypes, XML, XSLT, JSTL, XPath, JQuery, AJAX, RAD, TTD, Eclipse, Glash Fish Server,SVN, Windows XP. Senior Java Developer Sears Holding Corporation August 2014 to February 2015 Project: Best sellers  Description: The Best Seller Dashboard is designed to be a tool to display vital data from the "TOP 100" lists created to compare SHC pricing strategies to our competitors. The nature of a dashboard is to convey business data in a way that allows the user to quickly ascertain the important business metrics and to make business level decisions based on those metrics. The best dashboards are designed to easily highlight both long and short term trends and to display that data in a meaningful and intuitive manner.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirement gathering, data modeling, analysis, architecture design & development.  • Arriving towards technical deliverables like design specifications, effective coding practices, using reusable coding patterns within the teams.  • Involved in client meetings to gather the System requirements and estimations.  • Sending the timely feedbacks on team members /bug fixes and major incident reports to higher management.  • Planning/assigning/coordinating and work distributions within the team and conducting the KT sessions to the new joiners and across the teams with in the project.  • Coordinating with different teams like Onshore/Offshore.  • Hands-on working along with the team for implementation, testing and deployment.  • Created MQ Queue managers, remote queues and channels using WebSphere MQ  • Developed web user interface using Html5, JSP, JSTL, JSF tags and custom tag libraries.  • Extensively used spring framework components such as Dependency injections and AOP.  • Implemented Spring MVC to facilitate stable flow from front end.  • Content Creation (XML Menu Tree, Credit Reports) using XSLT  • Written JDBC templates, email and JMS to easily switchable  • Extensively used Hibernate in data access layer for regular CRUD operations  • Implemented various design patterns in the project such as Business Delegate, Data Transfer Object, Data Access Object, Service Locator, Factory and Singleton.  • Participated in writing Puppet modules to assist with the remediation and secure configuration of Linux systems.  • Involved in IDM migration and hands-on creating roles like user provisioning and maintenance, configuring different portal applications in IDM and roles creation for different teams like testing/development and production support teams using IDM OAM and OIM.  • Resolving scalability and performance issues both in Applications as well as in Web sphere/WebLogic Application Servers.  • Involved in PL/SQL query writing functions, tuning and package implementations.  • Involved in code and server performance fine tuning in production environments.  • Hands-on good experience in supporting production applications and resolving P1/P2 incidents during oncall support and involved in root cause analysis.  • Implemented build /deployment scripts using Ant and python scripts in UNIX.  • Setting up UNIXcrontabs /scheduled tasks/shell scripts for deleting logs, creating backups of log files.  • Analyzing and handling of Heap Dumps, JVM memory issues using JProfiler on production server and JVM heap memory upgrades.    Environment: Java5, Servlets, JSP, Spring, Hibernate, JAX-REST, JAX-WS, HTML5, XSLT, Apache CXF, JIRA, Apache Maven, Oracle IDM, Remedy, JSF, Windows XP, Oracle 9i,WinCVS, JSON, Tomcat. Senior Java Developer Sears Holding Corporation April 2013 to January 2015 Project: Brand Order Support system    Description: The aim of this project is to maintain the customers, purchase Item information. like customer location, contact details of the customer, Purchase Items cost and availability of the items .if any customer place an order it maintains the information about customer ,Quantity of items, cost of the items, purchase date and delivery date, delivery location .like it maintain all information about Customers, purchase items.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirement gathering, data modeling, analysis, architecture design & development.  • Arriving towards technical deliverables like design specifications, effective coding practices, using reusable coding patterns within the teams.  • Involved in client meetings to gather the System requirements and estimations.  • Sending the timely feedbacks on team members /bug fixes and major incident reports to higher management.  • Planning/assigning/coordinating and work distributions within the team and conducting the KT sessions to the new joiners and across the teams with in the project.  • Coordinating with different teams like Onshore/Offshore.  • Hands-on working along with the team for implementation, testing and deployment.  • Created MQ Queue managers, remote queues and channels using WebSphere MQ  • Developed web user interface using Html5, JSP, JSTL, JSF tags and custom tag libraries.  • Extensively used spring framework components such as Dependency injections and AOP.  • Implemented Spring MVC to facilitate stable flow from front end.  • Content Creation (XML Menu Tree, Credit Reports) using XSLT  • Written JDBC templates, email and JMS to easily switchable  • Extensively used Hibernate in data access layer for regular CRUD operations  • Implemented various design patterns in the project such as Business Delegate, Data Transfer Object, Data Access Object, Service Locator, Factory and Singleton.  • Participated in writing Puppet modules to assist with the remediation and secure configuration of Linux systems.  • Resolving scalability and performance issues both in Applications as well as in Web sphere/WebLogic Application Servers.  • Involved in PL/SQL query writing functions, tuning and package implementations.  • Involved in code and server performance fine tuning in production environments.  • Hands-on good experience in supporting production applications and resolving P1/P2 incidents during oncall support and involved in root cause analysis.  • Implemented build /deployment scripts using Ant and python scripts in UNIX.  • Setting up UNIXcrontabs /scheduled tasks/shell scripts for deleting logs, creating backups of log files.    Environment: Java, Servlets, JSP, Spring, Hibernate, JAX-REST, JAX-WS, HTML5, XSLT, Apache CXF, JIRA, Apache Maven, Oracle IDM, Remedy, JSF, Windows XP, Oracle 9i, WinCVS, JSON, Tomcat. Java Developer IQ Soft Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2011 to March 2013 Description:This is a website, which operates in the rental markets for student and landlords seeking renters to rent their properties. It reduces the amount of time used by students in their search for apartments for rent and also provides a convenient and cost efficient means of reaching students using cutting edge technology. There will be time and cost savings for landlords and rental companies who are in student cities. . The various options involved in the site are Posting, Reporting Feature, View list and Wish list, Photo/Image Management, Automatic workflow/information flow within the site and Search Capabilities.    Responsibilities:  • Extensively worked on Struts Framework.  • Created used interfaces using JSP.  • Developed the Web Interface using Servlets, Java Server Pages, HTML and CSS.  • Developed the DAO objects using JDBC.  • Business Services using the Servlets and Java.  • Developed and modified Servlets to accept and process request from the clients.  • Developed various objects using java and HTML and DHTML to maintain well-structured GUI and to interact with Controllers to get data from Oracle database.  • Used JDBC to connect the J2EEserver with the relational database.  • User input validations done using JavaScript and developed use cases using UML.  • Extreme programming methodologies for replacing the existing code and testing in J2EE environment.  • Developed java classes for business layer.  • Developed database objects like tables, views, stored procedures, and indexes.  • Involved in testing and fixing the bugs.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Struts, HTML, DHTML, Custom Tags, ANT, Java Script, XML, JDBC, Oracle (PL/SQL), DAO, Linux, Web Logic, JUnit, Log4j, Eclipse Java Developer IQ Soft Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana February 2009 to April 2011 Description: Claim processing application allows users to manage claim details during the investigation period of a claim. The origination of CP was a first step initiative to split and modularize the ICS application hosted in Web Sphere Application server. The big giant Integrated Claim System consists of the following sections - Claim Overview, Documents and Images, Medical bills and Payments, Notes and Activity Records, followed by a User Inbox showing the Claim tasks from Workflow system. Claim Processing integrates with existing ICS and acts as a Portal login application. The system also integrates new requirements from the business for Auto and Property policies, adding new functionality screens to process the claims in an efficient way. The development cycle of the system was challenging to keep the code reusable between both application EARs and also included a separate application EAR to host the common page functionalities which finally get ported as an AJAX utility serving content.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in document analysis and technical feasibility discussions for implementing new functionalities.  • Involved in server side and front-end validation and also in ecommerce..  • Designed and implemented the User Interface using JavaScript, HTML, XHTML, XML, CSS, JSP, AJAX and MySQL.  • Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, backbone, angular JS, Wire-framing, HTML5.  • Used AngularJS framework for building web-apps and is highly efficient with PHP framework as well as using Restful services.  • Created XML for deployment descriptors, struts configuration files and integrated to validation files.  • Design HTML prototypes, visual interfaces and interaction of Web-based design and hand code CSS.  • Developed model components using session beans and used local message driven beans (MDB) to interact to session using EJB.  • Used Web Services on front end, Servlets as Front Controllers and Java Script and Angular JS for client side validations.  • Consumed Web services using JAX-WS and generated client stubs from wsdl for web services.  • Designed and created the database tables and wrote SQL queries, Joins, PL/SQL sub programs like stored procedures, triggers and functions to access DB2.  • Produced content pages with CSS3 layout and style markup presentations and also used JavaScript methods and properties.    Environment: XML Schemas, XML, JSF, Java Script, CSS, HTML, Angular JS, Hibernate, Design Patterns, Servlets, JUnit, JMS, Web Services, DB2,UNIX,Windows XP. Java Developer Vasan Eye care - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2007 to January 2009 Description: It is an exhaustive product that addresses entire gamut of automation needs of the Hospital and comprises of the following activities: In-Patient & Out-Patient Administration, Lab and other Clinical Investigations Pharmacy, General Inventory and Purchasing, Pay-Roll & HR Administration tenancy of General and Biomedical equipment, Financial Accounting and Billing House-Keeping, Ward management, ICU and OT administration, Marketing Health Services.    Responsibilities:  • Extensively worked on Struts Framework.  • Created used interfaces using JSP.  • Developed the Web Interface using Servlets, Java Server Pages, HTML and CSS.  • Developed the DAO objects using JDBC.  • Business Services using the Servlets and Java.  • Developed and modified Servlets to accept and process request from the clients.  • Developed various objects using java and HTML and DHTML to maintain well-structured GUI and to interact with Controllers to get data from Oracle database.  • Used JDBC to connect the J2EEserver with the relational database.  • User input validations done using JavaScript and developed use cases using UML.  • Extreme programming methodologies for replacing the existing code and testing in J2EE environment.  • Developed java classes for business layer.  • Developed database objects like tables, views, stored procedures, and indexes.  • Involved in testing and fixing the bugs.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Struts, HTML, DHTML, Custom Tags, ANT, Java Script, XML, JDBC, Oracle (PL/SQL), DAO, Linux, Web Logic, JUnit, Log4j, Eclipse. Education Bachelor's