Java Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Full Stack Developer - Quantros Milpitas, CA • IT professional with 7 years of experience working in complete Software Development life cycle (SDLC) of Java/J2EE applications including support and maintenance.  • Experience of developing enterprise applications using Object oriented methodologies, enterprise technologies, frameworks and design patterns.  • Strong experience in Object Oriented Analysis in developing server side and front-end framework using J2EE design patterns and AngularJS.  • Experience in software development methodologies like Waterfall, Agile development and Rapid Application Development.  • Experience in frameworks like Spring MVC/IOC/ORM/JDBC/AOP/Context/Security and Struts (MVC, architecture, interceptors, action mappings and resource bundles) and JSF.  • Experience in Object relational Mapping frameworks such as Hibernate.  • Expertise in object-oriented Enterprise Java web applications using J2EE technologies/frameworks which includes JSP, Servlets, EJB, JMS, JSF, JDBC, JavaScript.  • Hands on experience in building Enterprise Applications and Distributed Systems using technologies such as Core Java, J2EE (Servlets, JSP, JSF, EJB, Hibernate, Spring, Struts, JDBC, JMS) and XML.  • In-depth knowledge and experience in implementing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using XML based SOAP/RESTful web services. Knowledge of Software as a Service (SaaS). Developed ANT scripts and used MAVEN tool to build and deploy J2EE Applications.  • Experience in Micro Services and Spring Boot application development.  • Used various web servers like Apache Tomcat, JBOSS and WebLogic.  • Expertise in socket, collections, serialization, threads programming.  • Extensively worked with ORM tools (Hibernate (HQL), JPA, OJB) and JPA annotations for implementation of persistence layer and mapping of POJOs.  • Good Knowledge of using IDE Tools like Eclipse, NetBeans, IntelliJ IDEA for Java/J2EE application development.  • Experience in using version control and configuration management tools like SVN, CVS, GIT, and VSS.  • Expertise in implementing client-server business applications using Micro services.  • Efficient in using J2EE Frameworks like Struts, Restful Web Services, Hibernate, Spring Technologies.  • Hands on Experience in integration with ANT, JUnit frameworks.  • Expertise in AngularJS controllers, directives, components, factory and service resources, routings and events. Expertise in DOM manipulation using JavaScript, jQuery and AngularJS.  • Conceived, designed, installed and implemented Puppet configuration management system.  • Experience in software development methodologies like Waterfall, Agile development and Rapid Application Development. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Full Stack Developer Quantros - Milpitas, CA September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Used Rally, Agile software development (Scrum methodology) to support and enhancement of RRM product.  • Developed user interfaces using Java Server Pages using HTML, DHTML, XHTML, AJAX,  • CSS & JavaScript, AngularJS 1.X.  • Configured Spring JDBC for database management.  • Responsible in testing the classes and methods using JUnit test case.  • Involved in the Deployment and Publish of the applications in various environments during the life cycle of the project.  • Use ZAP tool to identified web security issues as SQL Injection and Cross-Site Request Forgery, provided fixes for them.  • Conducted training session to team for ZAP tool.  • Extensively developed stored procedures, triggers, functions and packages in oracle SQL, PL/SQL.  • Called the stored procedures from Java.  • TOAD used for PL/SQL Development.  • Used Tortoise SVN for version controlling. Java Full Stack Developer Dominion Energy - Richmond, VA August 2017 to September 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in design discussions, review meetings with clients and provided design and development estimates based on the complexity of the service(s).  • Involved in Daily Scrum meetings, Sprint planning and estimation of the tasks for the user stories, participated in retrospective and presenting Demo at end of the sprint.  • Designed, built and deployed a multitude application utilizing almost all the AWS stack(including EC2, R53, S3, RDS, Dynamo DB, SQS, IAM and EMR) focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance and auto-scaling.  • Designed and developed entire application implementing MVC Architecture (using Spring roo), HTML5,CSS3, Bootstarp and AngularJS.  • Designed and implemented business rules using DROOLS framework.  • Developed frontend of application using Boot Strap (Model, View, Controller), Angular.js framework.  • Used Spring framework for implementing IOC/JDCB/ORM, AOP and Spring Security.  • Wrote services to store and retrieve user data from the Mongo DB for the application on devices.  • Consumed Web services - WSDL and SOAP for getting required information from third the different application.  • Used Maven to build and deploy the application on WebLogic server.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST API s and Spring Boot for microservices.  • Involved in batch processing using Spring Batch framework to validate feed files and load data into corresponding tables.  • Implemented Object-relation mapping in the persistence layer using hibernate framework in conjunction with spring functionality.  • Developed web UI by using JSP and front-end technologies such as JavaScript, Jquery, Jquery UI, CSS3, and HTML5.  • Developed enterprise and web applications using SOAP/REST Web Services EJBs Spring and Struts Play 2.0 frameworks.    Environment: Java 8, JDK 1.7, Oracle 11g, Struts 1.3, Boot Strap, Angular.js, Angular 2.0, Node.JS, Ext JS, AWS, Drools, Apache POI, Hibernate 4.0, spring 3.5, Spring Batch, JUnit, AKKA, Play, Groovy/Grails, Mockito, Mongo DB, Power Mock, DbUnit, NoSQL, TypeScript, Linux, React.JS, Microservices, Maven, Perl, SOLR, SOAP, Redux, JBPM, Python, Rest API, Restful Web Services, HTML, JQuery, Selenium, SVN, STS and WebLogic Java Full Stack Developer QBE Insurance Group Limited October 2015 to July 2017 Build a robust product STG Policy Suite using STG Toolkit and demonstrate our ability to quickly configure the complexity and challenges associated with each Line of Business (LOB) content, thus taking our product to a leadership position. PAS design should support the latest policy image as well as historical changes done on a policy through its life.  Responsibilities:  • Participate in developing and translating customer business requirements for enterprise-wide systems using Java/J2EE software development including Analysis, Design, and Development of web-based applications and related tools like Object Oriented Analysis and design (OOAD) techniques.  • Development of SOAP (JAX-WS) web service applications for both as consumer and producer.  • Helping team to test functionality of different Policy phases as New Business, Endorsement, Renewal, Out of Sequence, Binding, etc.  • Implemented Security component for web application handshaking technique.  • Developed Restful/SOAP Web Service API that will be exposed from Majesco policy to carry out the quote/policy/post bind/renewal transactions without using the Majesco policy user interface.  • Participate in developing the application with the use of Web Servers like IBM Web Sphere, BEA Web Logic, Apache Tomcat and JBoss.  • Participate in design and development of multi-tier applications using Java, XML, XSD, SOAP, and WSDL.  • Developed server-side components using Spring MVC framework and Hibernate.  • Code, debug, test, and document routine application programs.  • Advice or train users regarding the technical aspect and use of software development.  • Perform development of 2-tier, 3-tier, and N-tier architecture Enterprise Java/J2EE Systems.  • Design and develop custom Content Management systems for Majesco, which require knowledge of interfaces and of the impact on users.  • Specify alternate program design approaches and advise users regarding program techniques and design.    Environment: Java 1.6, J2EE, Oracle 10g, REST Web services(Jersey JAX RS 2.0), Eclipse, SOUPUI, Jenkins(1.532) build tool, JAXB, Web Sphere 7.1, JIRA and Quality Centre, Tomcat 6.0, Putti, AcuuRev 5.7, Windows-XP, Mobile Application Domain, Java/J2EE Frameworks. Java Full Stack Developer American Express - Gurgaon, Haryana October 2013 to July 2015 ACE is financial sector project which is under development. It enables Business to Business (B2B) transactions to be carried out with different service options. It is an API that would be used by different businesses' web portals for their transaction purposes. Technologies used in this project are core Java, spring framework, RESTful and SOAP web services. Application server is Web-sphere and DB2 with mainframe as RDBMS.  Responsibilities:  • Developed Consumer and Produce for SOAP/RESTful web services using WSDL, SOAP, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, JAXB and Apache CXF.  • Used SoapUI to test Rest Services  • Performed back end Functional testing of Rest Services.  • Developed spring security module to authentication and access control framework to secure Spring-based Java web application.  • Developed Spring caster component for marshaling and marshaling to get data from mainframe system.  • Deployment of Application on WebSphere Application Server 8.5.  • Preparation of work flow diagrams of the entire system through code analysis and discussion with team.  • Preparation of sequence and architectural diagrams of ACE system using Visio 2013 for end to end of the system,  • Discussion with Technology and Business teams to bridge the gap between business need and the implementation,  • Conducting java 8 API the session for team.  • Reporting of the code analysis result (summary of the finding) to Technology and Business team.  • Actively involved in technical meetings, requirements gathering, analysis, planning, effort estimations, development and testing.  • Used UML Modelling diagrams such as Sequence Diagrams and Class Diagrams using MS Visio tool.  • Tested Components using JUNIT and Mockito during development.    Environment: Window 7, Java1.8, J2EE, Spring 4.2.4, JSON, SOAP, Web-sphere 8.0, REST Web Services (CXF), SOAP UI 2.0, Eclipse, Apache Maven and Visio 2013. Java/J2EE Developer Source Technology - Mumbai, Maharashtra June 2012 to October 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the development of user interface applications and professional web applications using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, JSON, Xml, Bootstrap and Angular JS.  • Developed and Configured the Spring Configuration files for business and the persistence layers.  • Extensively used Dependency Injection (IOC) and Struts2 framework for developing the applications.  • Developed interfaces to communicate with mid-tier and Data Base.  • Data Access layer is implemented JDBC and JPA.  • Developed the REST Web services to perform Business logic and acts as intermediate between UI and Business Layer in JSON format.  • Involved in developing the persistence layer using Hibernate framework.  • Extensively used MVC, DAO, Factory and Singleton design patterns.    Environment: Window 7, Java1.6, Tomcat Apache Server, J2SE, J2EE, Struts2, Spring IOC/JDBC/ORM, JSON, SOAP, REST Web Services (CXF), SOAP UI 2.0, eclipse 3.5, SQL Server2008, Windows Server 2008. Education Bachelor's Skills Eclipse, Enterprise java beans, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Javascript, Angular, React, Node