Sr. Java/ J2EE Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span>/ J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java/ J2EE Developer - Sherwin Williams Cleveland, OH • 7+ years of experience in JAVA/J2EE projects in software analysis, design, implementation and development.  • Experience in Web Application Design, Development, Programming, Testing, Support Maintenance, and End-User support using java/J2EE technologies with Web Sphere and Web Logic application servers.  • Strong experience in Design and development of multi-tier web-based applications using J2EE technologies JAVA, Servlets, JSP and JDBC.  • Extensive experience in Object Oriented Analysis in developing server side and front-end framework using J2EE design patterns. Strong hands-on experience with AngularJS, ReactJS and NodeJS.  • Experience in developing enterprise applications using Object oriented methodologies, enterprise technologies, frameworks and design patterns.  • Excellent experience with Relational databases like MySQL, SQL Server, DB2 and No SQL databases like MongoDB, CouchDB and Cassandra.  • Implemented various J2EE design patterns like Service Locator, Session Façade, Data Access Objects (DAO), Factory, Singleton, Data Transfer Object (DTO), Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and Business Delegate in the development of Multi-Tier distributed Applications.  • Experience in building enterprise Applications and Distributed Systems using technologies such as Core Java, J2EE (Servlets, JSP, JSF, EJB, Hibernate, Spring, Struts, JDBC).  • Experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), which includes User Interaction, Business Analysis/Modeling, Design/Architecture, Development, Implementation, Integration, Documentation, Testing, and Deployment. Highly knowledgeable in UML, Use Cases, Conceptual Models, Collaboration Diagrams, Class Diagrams, Activity and Sequence Diagrams.  • Created forms and web pages using HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap.  • Experience in using Version Control Systems like CVS, SVN, and GIT.  • Worked with servers IBM web sphere, web logic, JBoss and Apache's Tomcat.  • Good at designing Design Documents, Unit Test Case, Integration Test Case, Integration Test Plan documents and estimating the assigning tasks.  • Good experience in unit testing with Karma, Jasmine and JUnit.  • Hands-on experience with IBM MQ Series and JMS communications between middleware components.  • Experience in setting up CI/CD pipelines using Jenkins, Bamboo and GOCD.  • Highly organized with the ability to prioritize workload, manage multiple projects and meet project deadlines by following project standards and procedures as per client specifications.  • Good interpersonal skills, excellent verbal, written and presentation skills and can work both independently and in a team. Work Experience Sr. Java/ J2EE Developer Sherwin Williams - Cleveland, OH August 2018 to Present Description: Client used a software application that allows the company to manage its inventory to achieve a data from its distributors and stores. Also, helps the company and its suppliers to manage supply orders, status, payments and transaction history, invoices etc. Get connected to its stores data, inventory, sales, distributors, client etc.  Responsibilities:  • Analysis, Design, Coding and testing components in the application according to the specifications provided by the product owner  • Followed SAFE Agile principles and methodologies to achieve quality product by interacting with different teams to develop a web application  • Supported batch applications to sync stores global database (Oracle) which gets data from almost 20 different applications.  • Implemented Single Page Application [SPA] functionalities using Angular Routing and also used Angular Lazy Loading, to increase the performance of the application.  • Involved in writing Java API for Amazon Lambda to manage some of the AWS services.  • Developed backend services to fetch the stores related data from Oracle 12c using JDBC templates.  • Migrated java applications from mainframes to java 8 using Spring MVC, JSP, CSS, hibernate, JavaScript, jQuery.  • Implemented Angular.js component router for navigation and the services to connect the web application to back-end APIs  • Experience in developing SOAP based web services with JAX-WS, JAX B, Apache Axis technologies.  • Deployed Micro Services, Docker container using Amazon EC2 container services and using AWS admin console  • Supported applications during regression testing for immediate bug fixes, developed JUnit test cases for improved performance and logging through Log4J  • Actively involved in code reviews, retrospective meetings, sprint planning sessions  • Setting up AWS Oracle RDS databases for new project, use data pump to migrate data to Relational Database Services (RDS).  • Performed code migrations and production deployments by creating a story card in JIRA and tested the application post deployment along with 24*7 application support.  • Developed REST services using JSON for storing and exchanging information between browsers and servers.  • Experience in managing Cassandra clusters on Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Developed user interface using Angularjs services method is used to pull JSON data which is exposed through REST services  • Build API as a Micro Service using spring boot and deployed on a cloud based CICD pipeline in an agile environment.  • Utilized Kubernetes for the runtime environment of the CI/CD system to build, test deploy.  • Implemented IBM MQ API to put get the messages from Message Queue.  • Good knowledge on using Splunk to identify the failures, errors in the applications  • Deployed the Services onto the OpenShift to run docker containers, via Kubernetes on cloud infrastructure.  • Experience in spring security to implement LDAP authorizations and database authentications.  • Integrated Automation scripts (Selenium Web Driver API) on Continuous Integration tools Jenkins for nightly batch run of the Script.  Environment: Javascript, JIRA, gitlab, wildfly 10.0, Angular 4/6, Tomcat8, Jenkins, REST, Openshift, SAML, spring MVC, LDAP, HTML, CSS, JSP, Oracle 12.c, Agile, Junit, Log4j, Java, IBM MQ, Web services, AWS, Docker 2, CI/CD, Selenium, Junit, Hibernate, Micro services, PLSQL, JIRA, Spring Security, XML, Ajax Sr. Java/ J2EE Developer AARP - Washington, DC June 2017 to July 2018 Description: This is a major insurance company makes available various insurance plans and third-party administrative services for its customers. Worked on application Portability and Accountability. Improve portability and continuity of insurance coverage in the group and individual markets and lastly to simplify the administration of its services.  Responsibilities:  • Study the business process flow and existing system.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modeling, analysis, design, development and testing  • Developed various Servlets and Java Interfaces as part of the integration and process flow required for the system.  • Created a loosely coupled component model to give the better flexibility to handle frequent business changes.  • Wrote complex SQL queries, DML scripts, stored procedures, triggers and PL/SQL packages to interact with SQL Server database  • Used AngularJS as the development framework to build a single-page application and reusable AngularJs services and components.  • Used JNDI for connection pooling and LDAP for Authentication and authorizations  • Used java 1.8 features like stream, lambda expressions, Local Date objects etc  • Worked on extracting event data from front end using Kafka REST proxy. Used Kafka frameworks for messaging and queuing.  • Used Java Lambda expressions along with Streams for creating internal iteration and performing chain operations such as Filter, Map, Collect on a collection Objects.  • Used Hibernate as persistence Layer - using the SQL Server Database and configuration data to provide persistence services (and persistent objects) to the application.  • Created Hibernate mapping files, sessions, transactions, Query & Criteria's to fetch the data from the database.  • Developed asynchronous service call in Angular 4 with Type Script and transacted data in JSON format between back-end and front-end applications.  • Built an Application and deployed microservices in the AWS Cloud using Docker containers.  • Developed RESTful web services for customers' info retrieval, bank transactions.  • Participated in developing view pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSP.  • Involved in creating JUnit test cases.  • Involved in doing build & deployment using Maven.  • Used Log4J components for logging. Perform daily monitoring of log files and resolve issues.  • Involved in installing and configuring Eclipse IDE, Ant, WebLogic and Maven for development.  • Actively involved in getting the QA, UAT and production issues resolved.  • Conceptualized the design of custom Ubuntu Server installation method and Linux server architecture.  • Involved in working on Cassandra database to analyze how the data get stored.  • Launched Amazon EC2 Cloud Instances using AWS and configured the launched instances with respect to specific applications.  • Branching and forking in GitHub was used for versioning of the application  • Configured VPN'S for the communication between the servers of AWS side and client side    Environment: J2EE, Java Script, HTML5, CSS, Angular 2/4, Servlets, JSP, RESTful web services, Junit, Maven, Log4J, Ant, WebLogic, Docker, Cassandra, Micro services, Sevlets, Hibernate, Kafka, SQL, Kubernetes, Maven, Amazon EC2, Glacier, Amazon EC2, Amazon VPC Java Developer L Brands International - Columbus, OH March 2016 to May 2017 Description: LBrands in an American Fashion retailer company which manufactures different varieties of products under different brands. Developed an interactive web application for different brands. The main purpose of this application is to generate reports for the Sales, Store inventory, Customer related debit/ credit cards, offers eligibility and upcoming events.  Responsibilities:  • Agile Development process was used for the product life cycle management.  • Designed and Developed complex UI screens using AJAX, JQuery, JQuery-EasyUI, JSP, CSS, HTML and JavaScript and Apache Struts technologies.  • Designed, developed and test HTML, CSS, ES6, jQuery and React JS, that meets accessibility of web browser.  • Implemented Single Page Design and customized directive and filter criteria by using AngularJS  • Used Angular JS- ng-grid, ng-repeat, ng-idle, ng-upload, to show Tabular data  • Supported legacy applications which were built on Struts 2.  • Worked with NoSQL database MongoDB and created pipeline from MongoDB Cluster.  • Designed and developed Controllers, Action Mappings, Interceptors, Forms and View pages for management of policy claims using Struts 2 framework.  • Used Micro Services architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST and Spring Boot.  • Developed REST services using JSON for storing and exchanging information between browsers and servers.  • Used SAX and DOM parser for parsing xml documents and XSLT API to handle XML parsing in Object Oriented way.  • Used ReactJS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Implemented different Design patterns like DAO, Singleton, Factory, Delegate, and Front Controller.  • Implemented rest web services using REST, JSON and JAX-RS and SOAP web services using JAX-WS.  • Development of database interaction code to JDBC API making extensive use of SQL Query Statements and advanced prepared statement.  • Added Excel-Builder to download the Tabular data in Excel format using React.  • Created unit tests using JUnit framework in test driven development approach using Mockito.  • Used SVN as version control tool and Maven as build tool.  • Worked closely with requirement team, testing team, data base administrators and production support team  • Developed Web Services using SOAP, WSDL, JAX-WS and Apache Spark and used SoapUI for testing  • Developed Controllers, view resolvers, Handler mappings, and Java Server Pages as views using Spring MVC  • Extensively used Hibernate Query Language (HQL) and criteria-based queries to work with MySQL Database  • Involved in code reviews, trainings, drafting Unit Test Case documents  Environment: JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Oracle 11g, TALISMA, Tableau, ReactJS, AngularJS, Hibernate, PL/SQL, Waterfall Model, Spring MVC, Web services, IWRS Systems, Synapse, Docker, Mongo DB, MySQL, Citrix, JUnit, Struts, HQL, AngularJS 2, Micro services, Jenkins, Learning Management System, PAF, Mocha, Jasmine. Java Developer Integra Micro Systems, Karnataka - IN January 2014 to January 2016 Description: Integra is a leading provider of innovative hi-technology products and solutions in the Government, BFSI and telecom space, with a focus on India. Worked on development and enhancement of applications for third party tie-ups, customers, internal vendors.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in design phase and data modeling team.  • Implemented JEE standards, MVC architecture using Spring Framework.  • Developed cross-browser/platform HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to match design specs for complex page layouts while adhering to code standards  • Implemented React JS Controllers to maintain each view data where the client implemented the UI using ReactJS  • Developed Spring MVC controllers and REST services to hit other internal and external API's to perform a task.  • Implemented various Validation Controls for form validation and implemented custom validation controls with JavaScript and jQuery.  • Developed presentation tier using JSP, JavaScript, HTML, and CSS for manipulating, validating, customizing, error messages to the User Interface.  • Used Microservices to communicate using synchronous protocols HTTP and REST for implementing SOAP.  • Used React JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components  • Worked on JEE frameworks like Spring and Struts for developing industry standard web applications.  • Created Location Look up SOAP based web services using Spring.  • Familiar with MongoDB write concern to avoid loss of data during system failures.  • Tracing connections to the Mongo database and monitoring utilization of resources for each process  • Created data model, SQL scripts for the application  • Worked on jQuery for user interface interactions, effects and themes built on top of the JavaScript.  • Extensive use of HTML with JSTL, JSP and jQuery for the presentation layer along with Java script for client-side validation.  • Prepare and maintain Technical specification documentation to support development activities as per Functional specification document.    Environment: JavaScript, JEE, JSP, HTML, CSS, Jquery, Servlets, PCF, JavaScript, Restful Web services, ReactJS, Eclipse, Oracle, Spring MVC, XML, Micro services, MongoDB, Struts, SQL, CI/CD, SOAP. Jr. Java Developer Adiance Technologies Pvt. Ltd - Gujarat, IN August 2011 to December 2013 Description: Design, Develop Order management web module for order tracking, order processing, shipping. This was an Intranet application used by admin staff. Developed user interfaces and established user authentication. Also worked on back-end for user information and data access.    Responsibilities:  • Actively participated in meetings with Business Analysts and Architects to identify the scope, requirements and architecture of the project.  • Developed application using Spring MVC, JSP, JSTL and AJAX on the presentation layer, the business layer is built using spring.  • Created standards and patterns for deploying a spring boot data micro-service architecture to PCF  • Used config-server options of PCF for maintaining application properties pertaining to each environment and enable communication via cloud  • Configured faces-config.xml and applicationcontext.xml for JSF Integration.  • Involved in enhancement of existing application utilizing Node JS created role-based HTML navigation menu wherein menu items change dynamically based on the values derived from the database in the form of XML.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms & simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation  • Extensively used Java Multi-Threading concept for downloading files from a URL.  • Used J2EE design patterns like Front Controller, MVC, Business Delegate and Session Facade. Developed User Interface and web page screens for various modules using JSF, JavaScript, and AJAX using RAD.  • Generated Use case diagrams, Class diagrams and Sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Write front-end code for developing new pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and jQuery.  • Worked on Eclipse for development and deployment of application in JBoss Application Server.    Environment: Javascript, Node JS, PCF, SQL, MVC, Srping ORM, JSP, JSTL, AJAX, Spring MVC, RAD, SQL Server 2008, Micro services, JBoss, JavaScript, HTML, CSS Education Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science & Engineering in Computer Science & Engineering Manipal Institute of Technology Skills ECLIPSE, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages Java, SQL, PL/SQL, Python, Test Driven Development (TDD)  J2EE Technologies Servlets, Spring 3.x/4.x, Spring Boot 1.2.3, JSP, JDBC, JPA, JSTL, JNDI.  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, XSLT, XML, jQuery, JavaScript, Angular JS 2/4/5/6 , Node JS, Radiant, Logic Virtual Directory.  LAN Technologies Faster Ethernet, Ethernet Gigabit Ethernet, DNS  App/Web Servers  IBM WebSphere Application Server 6.1/7.x/8.x, J Boss 4.x/3.x, JBoss Application server, WebSphere, Tomcat 5.x/6.x, Web Logic (12c, 11i, 10g, 8).    Frameworks Struts, Spring MVC, Micro Services - MVC,JSP 1.2/2.0, JPA, JSF  SOA Web Services (Restful, SOAP, WSDL).  ORM Tool Hibernate, JPA, IBatis, MyBatis  Tools LoadRunner, Log4J, Ant, BIRT, Jenkins, Kafka, TOAD, PL/SQL Developer  IDEs Eclipse, Net Beans  Databases Oracle 10g, 9i, 8i, AWS, SQL Server, Couchbase 2.5.1,3.03, Mango DB, Cassandra  Version Control SVN, ClearCase, GIT  Operating Systems Linux, Unix, Windows, Mac OS