Software Engineer Software Engineer Software Engineer - Accuity Irvine, CA Looking to move to Irvine, CA area Work Experience Software Engineer Accuity - Evanston, IL September 2018 to Present My responsibilities include working on a multitude of applications, finding security holes via scans (Checkmarx, BURP, etc.) or by manual penetration testing, and then fixing these holes following Java best practices as well as OWASP top 10 best practices. I check security throughout the entire application, adding checks and validations at the client-side, as well as server-side ensuring the applications are safe throughout.    I have also assisted in the transition of old SOAP services into REST services using Spring tools (Spring Boot and Data) and following REST protocol best practices.    Lastly, I also have worked on a co-joint project with another developer implementing a GraphQL service, combining several REST services rolled into one service. The application also has an SPA written in angularJS to take in web service calls and display the json object in a user friendly manner. Service Leader August 2016 to Present Maintained timely and efficient checkout times, supervised 14 people, ensured cleanliness, and organization. Managed breaks, staffing and stations. Promoted after 2 months on job,  from cashier. Automation Test Engineer/Quality Assurance AETNA - Tempe, AZ November 2017 to September 2018 My responsibilities include testing health care applications, using automation and manual techniques. The most recent project I have worked on is the switching over of how the claims domain runs and work. For this I test the files sent by validating data in the backend. On my own time for this project, I have written an XML parser to automate the testing process, where the files are parsed using the JAXB library, putting the information into POJO's, and then a series of a database calls is run to validate the information in the file is correct, comparing the object created from parsing the XML file to an object created from database queries of how and from where the data should be collected. Full Stack Java Web Developer REVATURE - Reston, VA June 2017 to October 2017 My responsibilities included designing full stack enterprise level web applications, from front end to back end, employing the MVC design as well as accounting for OWASP top ten security flaws. Created secure, website for charity, where users were able to sign up for events, post events for others to see on a shared calendar, as well as create user accounts and profiles. Created a full end-to-end test suite for a large scale web application, using selenium with cucumber in order to test user stories. Test suite was deployed on an AWS linux server, and ran using a headless browser for efficiency purposes as well as the fact that there would be no GUI on the server. HANNAFORDS - Townsend, MA June 2016 to May 2017 Education Criminal Justice University of Massachusetts Lowell - Lowell, MA May 2017 Skills Javascript, MySQL, Object Oriented Programming (4 years), Java (2 years), AngularJS (2 years), Spring (2 years), SQL (2 years), HTML 5 (2 years), CSS (2 years), Jquery, Git Links http://linkedin.com/in/PatrickMuldoon http://github.com/patrickmuldoon Assessments Critical Thinking — Highly Proficient June 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/eh-ihwf-gqhkcp6 Data Analysis — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ekpp-ahelhshbgvz Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.