Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - CITI Group New Jersey Wildlife and Game Refuge, NJ • Java/J2EE Developer with 6+ years of IT experience in java Application Development, Object Oriented Programming and also testing and implementing the application development.  • Skilled in clarifying business requirements, defining and managing co-resources, identifying risks, hitting targeted milestones, determining and driving the management of client expectations, to support the technical needs of the project along with the project team, providing internal and external reporting on all project milestones.  • Good knowledge with spring and log4j frameworks..  • Good knowledge on Bit Bucket and SVN.  • Good knowledge about SDLC and methodologies like Agile.  • Worked extensively on RAD, Eclipse.  • Good knowledge on Oracle Application Express.  • Writing PL/SQL Queries and stored procedures in Oracle and MySQL efficiently.  • Excellent working experience in Production Monitoring and Support.  • Project implementation skills using both core and advanced Java technologies (JDBC, Spring Batch)  • Extensive work experience on Windows 8, Linux  • Used SVN as Version Control Systems.  • Writing PL/SQL Queries and stored procedures in Oracle and MySQL efficiently.  • Deployed web applications in Apache Tomcat server, IBM WebSphere and BEA Weblogic, GlassFish.  • Experience with unit testing using JUnit and writing Build scripts using Maven.  • Extensive experience of using spring (MVC, IOC, JDBC/ORM, and AOP) on different projects.  • Good knowledge and hands on experience in MVC (Struts), spring and ORM (Hibernate) frameworks.  • Extensive knowledge and implementation skills in Struts MVC framework.  • Experience on the spring modules like Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring DAO, and Spring AOP.  • Experience on messaging and streaming technologies such as AmazonMQ, Active MQ and Apache KAFKA  • Talented professional, proficient in all phases of the software development lifecycle. Adept at working with Agile and Scrum methodologies to accomplish project milestones according to specific timeframes.  • Proficiency on CI/CD tools/processes (Git, Gradle , Maven, Jenkins, SonarQube, Jacoco and Junit)  • Strong analytical, problem solving, multitasking, and time management skills with consistent attention to detail.  • Have a good team spirit and professionalism, self-motivated, strong sense of responsibility, good communication skills, able to work under pressure.  • A highly motivated individual with a diverse skill set possessing both leadership and team player capabilities.  • Proactive, posses excellent communication and interpersonal skills.  • Committed to work, highly organized, can work under tight deadline schedules. Work Experience Java Developer CITI Group December 2017 to Present Description: CCAR RWA forecasting is a critical function within risk organization which oversees RWA forecasting for all business lines. Forecasted numbers is a great forward looking indicator on the amount of future regulatory capital necessary during a stressed or severely stressed environment, which goes as an input to CCAR Fed reporting. The application will be used in calculating Risk Weight Assets projections for securitization exposures for both Banking Book and Trading Book using BASEL 3 Advanced and Standardized approaches and prepare high quality presentation of RWA projection Key stake holders such as Business, Finance and Independent Risk Management.    Responsibilities:  • Analyze, design, develop, modify, test and implement enterprise software applications.  • Involve in batch processing using Spring Batch framework to extract data from files and load data into tables.  • Develop software applications using Java, J2EE, iBatis, ORM, Maven, Log4j, Eclipse, SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle, Sybase ,Microservices, UNIX, Linux, Windows.  • Developed Hibernate classes for different entities using one-one and one-many mappings.  • Scheduling and running jobs using Autosys tool.  • I have worked on different technologies which are related to both Frontend and Backend like Full Stack, web services like SOAP & REST, Hibernate, JPA and different ORM Frameworks to interact with the database.  • Frameworks of java worked on spring, spring batch, spring boot, hibernate, restful API, spring cloud ETC AND ALSO  • Worked with lambda functions, good experience with debugging also comfortable with unit test cases, Versions of JDK worked is 1.5,1.7, 1.8  • worked on both soap and rest based Webservices.  • Store, retrieve and manipulate data for analysis, as needed by various enterprise application's use cases.  • Develop and direct software system testing and validation procedures.  • Developed POJO's, Data Access Object (DAO) which handles all database operations using Spring JDBC and IBatis Framework.  • Also worked with Oracle as application backend database and connected to the application.  • Support and troubleshoot application software in production and other environments.  • Using SVN and Bit Bucket for version control.  • Using Maven as build management system.  • Written JUNIT Test cases for Unit testing.    Environment: Java 1.8,ORM Framework, Spring 3.0, JDBC, SQL, PL/SQL, JUnit, Mybatis, SVN, Maven, JIRA, Eclipse Mars. Java/AWS Engineer MASTERCARD - OFALLON, MO, US June 2016 to November 2017 Description: MASTERCARD Bank is a Saint Louis based financial organization that offers services such as commercial and personal banking, online banking services, investment and loans. This application is developed to enhance online banking facility to the customer. Banking application has various modules for account maintenance, and email notification modules.    Responsibilities:  • Developed Restful APIs and micro services using spring, Hibernate and Jersey.  • Deploying, configuring on Web/Application Servers like JBoss and Apache Tomcat.  • Worked with Jenkins DSL to create/update Jenkins jobs to automate CICD pipeline.  • Developed Terraform scripts to create the AWS resources such as EC2, Auto Scaling Groups, ELB, Route53, S3, SNS and Cloud Watch Alarms.  • Involved in the review and analysis of the Functional Specifications and Requirements, initiatives using Rapid Application Development.  • Developed Cookbooks to configure AWS resources and deploy the applications using Chef.  • Developed Playbooks to configure and installing applications using Ansible.  • Worked with AWS Lambda using python to automate resource creation, perform compliance checks and cost optimization.  • Created AWS Lambda using java to perform event driven processing.  • Constructed S3 lifecycle of Applications & Database logs, which includes deleting old logs, archiving logs based on the retention policy and granting rights to authorized users.  • Involved in the development of user interface using Angular JS, HTML and CSS.  • Redesigning the existing web application with new technologies like Bootstrap and Angular JS.  • Worked closely with architect in creating VPC, subnets and security groups.  • Worked with API gateway to expose the APIs for internal consumption with two factor authentication.  • Built products using Java and Scala based Spark Framework for the enterprise.  • Experience working with large data sets, experience working with distributed computing like Apache Spark and Hadoop  • Used design patterns such as Singleton, Factory pattern, Session Façade, Business Delegate, MVC, and DAO.  • Worked with advanced MVC framework such as Spring-IOC, AOP, MVC and batch which is used for implement-ing backend functionality.  • Developed Repayment Calculator, displays loan repayment options based on loan amount, interest and time period using AJAX with jQuery.  • Worked on creating and automating Acceptance Tests for TDD using Java and Cucumber.    Environment: Java, Spring Core, Spring Boot, SpringTomcat, AngularJS, EC2, Auto Scaling, Route53, RDS, JDBC, JPA, Hibernate, Spring JDBC Template, Git ,Jersey, Rest, SOAP, XML, XSD, XSLT, Servlets, JSP, MySQL, Log 4j, JUnit, Mockito, Cucumber, Agile, Maven. Java Developer Millinieum Software Solutions - IN June 2012 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in designing and developing new rest services for mobile application and implemented new changes in existing rest services with versioning for backward compatibility.  • Actively involved in developing services for migration of site pseudo membership to full membership with social and non-social accounts.  • Worked with third party (gigya) APIs to implement social membership and sharing.  • Actively involved in developing services for business profile and order entry redesign.  • Worked with SOLR index for nightly load process and search related development work  • Implemented data abstraction layer using Hibernate DAO objects  • Used Design Patterns such as Singleton, Factory pattern, Session Façade, Business Delegate, MVC, and DAO.  • Involved in developing administrative utilities for uploading offer codes, promo codes and tracking codes.  • Used agile methodology along with test driven development using JUnit and Mockito.  • Used R language for data analysis in Machine Learning  • Analyzed statistical aspects of applications like correlations, ran machine language algorithms like linear regression.  • Involved in redesigning the deals purchase flow.  • Involved in redesigning partner xml feeds processing  • Involved in user interface development using JSP, JSTL, jQuery, JavaScript, HTML, CSS.  • Involved in production deployment of sprint releases to multiple JBoss servers.    Environment: Agile, Java, J2EE, Struts 2.x, Hibernate, Solr, RESTEasy, SOAP, SyBase, JSP, JQuery, Java Script, HTML, CSS, RapidSQL, Starteam, JBoss, Barracuda, Tomcat, JSON, AJAX, JUnit, Mockito, Ant. Education Master's Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Jsp, Spring, Java J2Ee, Javascript, Angularjs, MVC