Lead Java Developer Lead <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Lead Java Developer Dallas, TX • Highly motivated IT professional having 8+years of experience in development and implementation of customized software and web-based applications.  • Experience in all phases of software development life cycle including Requirements, Design, Implementation, Verification, Maintenance and Testing of various client/server, N-tier and web applications.  • Expert in implementing Java/J2EE technologies for application development in various layers of projects i.e. Requirement gathering, Analysis, Design, Implementation, Unit Testing and Deployment.  • Implementation knowledge of Distributed Enterprise applications using Java, J2EE (JSP), Servlets, Java Beans, XML, Struts, JDBC, Hibernate, spring, Html).  • Experienced as a Web Developer in developing web applications using JavaScript, JSP, HTML, DOM, and CSS.  • Strong knowledge of Responsive Web Design, Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility on different browsers.  • Experience with JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, JSON, and XML  • Good experience in using Spring ORM wiring with Hibernate for developing backend systems.  • Experience with JS testing frameworks (e.g. Karma, Jasmine, Mocha)  • Experience in implementing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using Web Services (SOAP).  • Developed struts action, form beans, business object and adapter components for the controller and model layers of the MVC pattern.  • Wrote various Struts Framework Action classes for interfacing with the business logic, form beans for presenting the data to JSPs.  • Good Understanding of Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM Functions compatibility and SEO / web standards.  • Worked on IDE's like Microsoft Visual Studio to build HTML pages.  • Excellent skills in building elegant professional websites while adhering to W3C standards.  • Excellent understanding of Software Quality, Configuration Management and Software Release Practices.  • Experience managing daily communication with an offshore development teams.  • Involved in Understanding functional specifications and developing creative solutions to meet business requirements.  • Used XML Web Services using SOAP to transfer the amount to transfer application that is remote and global to different financial institutions.  • Worked closely with the project management and marketing team to completely define specifications to help ensure project acceptance.  • Good understanding of SDLC development methodology.  • Highly motivated and results-oriented professional possessing exceptional communication and leadership skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Java Developer PNC Financial Services Group Inc - Dallas, TX September 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed and Implemented WebServices and used Spring Framework.  • Developed user specific Highlights(dashboard menu) section, Home page, Admin home page, user module (Modify/search users, create users screens with assigning various roles) using Spring MVC framework, Hibernate ORM Module, Spring Core Module, XML, JSP and XSLT.  • Implemented JBOSS Cache provider with Hibernate second-level cache for clustered caching using cache factory interfaces and also defined configuration mappings like setting the Isolation levels and other cluster configurations.  • Developed hibernate DAO Accessor Classes using Spring JDBC Template, Worked with Hibernate for object relational mapping and connection management.  • Worked on persistence layer using O/R Mapping tool IBatis with Oracle 10g Database.  • Developed IBATIS config files for SYBASE D.B tables, stored process  • Expertise in design UI with Angular JS, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap and Telerik UI.  • Experience working on Frameworks like Bootstrap, Foundation, Angular.js, Backbone.js, React.js, Node.js, Knockout.js and Media Queries.  • Actively involved in coding and designing using C#, XML, ADO.NET, WCF, JavaScript, React JS, Underscore JS, JQuery, HTML, and Cascading Style Sheets (CSS).  • Experience in creating custom, general use modules and components which extend the elements and modules of core Node.JS.  • Built main application in Python, Django leveraging technologies such as Tastypie,Backbone.js, and Celery  • Developed user interface using JSP, HTML, XHTML and Java Script to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Developed Java Script utility objects for common client side validations, history handling, window management and menus management  • Developed Oracle PL/SQLStored Procedures and Queries for Payment release process and authorization process.  • Developed PL/SQL procedure for login module and registration module.  • Experience in building Cassandra cluster.  • Excellent knowledge on Hadoop Architecture and ecosystems such as HDFS, Job Tracker, Task Tracker, Name Node, Data Node and MapReduce programming paradigm.  • Worked on web services SOAP and REST technologies  • Used XML Web Services using SOAP to transfer the amount to transfer application that is remote and global to different financial institutions.  • Used Web Services for creating rate summary and used WSDL and SOAP messages for getting insurance plans from different module and used XML parsers for data retrieval  • Involved in debugging the product using Eclipse and JIRA Bug Tracking.  • Created the domains, application servers and load balancers using Weblogic.  • Experience in multiple version control tools like GIT, CVS, and SVN.  • Experience with HDFS, Hive, Pig, Sqoop and Git Hub versioning tool in the recent projects.  • Involved in coding for JUnit Test cases  • Provides technical assistance in identifying, evaluating and developing Agile methodologies and procedures that are efficient, effective and meet good business practice.  • Designed Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams and Object Diagrams to model the detail design of the application using UML.  • Design & Development of the User Interfaces using HTML, CSS and JSP  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSTL and Custom Tag Libraries and AJAX to speed the application.  • Developed Servlets and Worked extensively on SQL.  • Developed various UI (User Interface) components using Struts (MVC), JSP, and HTML.  • Has developed XML Parsing logic using DOM Parsers.  • Design and develop enterprise or application architectures and RFI/RFP delivery solutions using SOA (Service Oriented Architecture), web services, DODAF (Department of Defense Architecture Framework), and segment architecture.    Environment:  Java, J2EE, JEE, Spring, Hibernate, Ibatish, Angular.js, React.JS, Node.JS, Bootstrap.JS, Backbone.JS, JavaScript, Oracle, PL/SQL, Cassandra, Hadoop, REST, Soap, Web Services, Eclipse, Weblogic, Git, Git Hub, Junit, Selenium, Agile, UML, JSP, JSTL, SERVLET, Gradel , MAVEN, XML, SQA Sr. Java Developer U.S. Bancorp - Raleigh, NC March 2015 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Implemented the Spring dependency injection of the Database helper instance to the action objects.  • Implemented the caching mechanism in Hibernate to load data from Oracle database.  • Expertise in developing enterprise applications using Struts Frameworks  • Design and develop Servlets, JSPs, and JavaBeans with dependency injection to implement JSF framework, Good working experience developing advanced Swing components.  • Converted the existing EJB session beans which call the host (Mainframe system) into POJO's.  • Developed reusable custom directives using AngularJS using transclude, restrict, event handlers and templating.  • Developed user interfaces using JSP, JSF frame work with AJAX, Java Script, HTML, DHTML, and CSS.  • Developed presentation layer using XML, XSL, JavaScript, CSS, JSP, JSTL, Custom tags etc.  • Delivered mobile app for book reading capability with HTML5 Sencha and online services with Flash/Flex.  • Proficient in building Web User Interface (UI) utilizing HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Node.js, DOM, jQuery, Angular Js, Hapi Js and Ajax that are W3C Web Standards and are program good.  • Worked on the modernization of a legacy and outsourced UI. Technologies used were Backbone.js, Can.js, and JQuery  • Involved in implementing JQuery for providing interactive user interfaces.  • Wrote Java programs, performed builds, monitored DB2 data and ran SQLs.  • Developed a bulletin board module for supplier and vendor information portal. Application included forms to upload notification documents to the Supplier bulletin and maintenance of documents, complete with CRUD capabilities and email notifications.  • Involved in writing and executing PL/SQL stored procedures and functions and triggers for Oracle to create a Database Management System.  • Developed DAO API to manage the payment information using JDBC  • Developed enhancements to MongoDB architecture to improve performance and scalability.  • Experience in upgrading and migrating various versions of Mongo database on different platforms.  • Design and Developed using WebService using Apache CXF.  • Designed and Developed WebServices to interact with various business sectors and used SOAP protocol for webservices communication  • Consumed Web Services (WSDL, SOAP) from third party for authorizing payments to/from customers.  • Used Eclipse IDE for designing, coding and developing applications  • Used Websphere Application Server for application deployment in the clustered UNIX environment.  • Usage of version control repository SVN (Subversion by apache), JIRA/ QualityCenter for ticketing, Wiki for documentation, Jenkins for nightly build.  • Developed test cases and performed unit testing using JUnit.  • Extensive experience in developing applications using Java and related technologies using WATERFALL and AGILE SCRUM methodologies.  • Involved in detail design developing use cases, use case diagrams, class diagrams, sequence diagrams and high level activity diagrams using UML from the requirements.  • Developed Use Cases, Sequence and Class Diagrams using Rational Rose  • Developed the Action Classes, Action Form Classes, created JSPs using Struts tag libraries and configured in Struts-config.xml, Web.xml files.  • Involved in user interface development using JSTL.  • Developed Servlets and JSPs based on MVC pattern using Struts framework and Spring Framework.  • Used Maven Script for building and deploying the application.  • Was responsible for Developing XML Parsing logic using SAX/DOM Parsers  • Design, develop and test of SOA services using SOA / Web Service / Oracle Fusion Middleware.  • Developed master JMS producer, master JMS consumer, and notification manager to implement existing interfaces and hide JMS details from existing (legacy) notification producers and consumers using J2SE DESIGN PATTERNS.  • Configured Server for Oracle Database and Apache Tomcat  • Performed J2EE application deployment using JBoss application server on Windows and Linux.  • Extensive Development using Zend Framework by PHP in a LAMP environment.    Environment:  Spring, Hibernate, Struts, JSF, EJB, Angular.JS, JavaScript, CSS, HTML5, Node.JS, Bootstrap.JS, Backbone.JS, JQuery, DB2, CRUD, PL/SQL, JDBC, MongoDB, Apache CXF, Soap, WebServices, Eclipse, Websphere Portal, WSAD, SVN, Junit, UML, Class Diagram, JSP, JSTL, SERVLET, MAVEN, XML, SOA, JMS, Apache Tomcat, Linux, PHP. Senior Java Developer Morgan Stanley - New York, NY March 2014 to February 2015 Responsibilities:  • Worked on the Spring framework like Spring IOC and Spring DAO Design and develop Servlets, JSPs,  • Using spring integration with IBatis for persistence. All SQL map name spaces are configured in sqlmap-config file.  • Implemented views using Struts tags, JSTL and Expression Language.  • JavaBeans with dependency injection to implement JSF framework. Good working experience developing advanced Swing components.  • Developed Scalable applications using Stateless session EJBs.  • Implemented CSS3, DOM API, DOJO and Ajax to create a dynamic and interactive experience.  • Implemented functionality using Servlet, JSP, HTML and Struts Framework., Hibernate, Spring, Java Scripts and Weblogic.  • Used JavaScript and jQuery for validating the input given to the user interface.  • Used JQuery JavaScript libraries for providing richer user interface and facilitates asynchronous request invocations using AJAX.  • Worked on JDBC to select and update the data from the MySQL database.  • Used TOAD for database query testing, in the process of optimizing the queries  • Migrated data from SQL Server 2005 to SQL Server 2008.  • Involved in writing CTG, JCICS classes to interact with Mainframe DB2.  • Designed and developed the input/output data formats in XSD for the WSDL files and accordingly implementing services using Apache AXIS2.  • Developed Web Services to communicate to other modules using XML based SOAP and WSDL protocols.  • Followed an Agile, Software Development methodology. Used NetBeans IDE  • Configuration and deployment of application on to JBoss application server.  • Created ClearCase VOBs and setup triggers and backups for a new project. Wrote roll out procedures and plans. Environment was mixed Windows and AIX, projects written in C++.  • Involved in creating unit testing of various layers using Junit and created automated test scripts for integration testing using selenium.  • Expertise in employing Water Fall Model and best practices for software development  • Participated in converting the business requirements to software specifications using Rational UML  • Developed various UI (User Interface) components using Struts (MVC), JSP, and HTML.  • Was involved in writing JSPs, JavaScript and Servlets to generate dynamic web pages and web content.  • Good understanding of Oracle, SQL, Shell Script, JavaScript/JQuery, Log4j, ANT, Maven and Ajax concepts.  • Used WebServices for creating rate summary and used WSDL and SOAP messages for getting insurance plans from different module and used XML parsers for data retrieval.  • Quickly learned iText and implemented to solve Hungarian Special Character Issue.  • Working Closely with EMC Documentum to implement Engineering Design Storage Repository and Project Document Management.  • Designed and implemented interface elements using Google Web Toolkit.  • Using JIRA to manage the issues/project work flow  • Designed Interactive GUIs using Java Applets and Swing.  • Involved in Installation & Configuration of Cognos in distributed environments on Solaris.  • Implemented two Java portals. One is Crystal Report Engine and the other is Jasper Report Engine as plug-in to other web-applications depending on the user's preferences.  • Installed and configured a multi-server, clustered ILOG environment. Documented architecture and trained client administrators.  • Designed various design Workflow Modules using BPM (Business Process Modeler) to implement Business Logic and Business rules using Ilog, Jrules.  • Layout and design the overall architecture and migration approaches using Oracle ADF.  • Migration of Business process modeling, views from Oracle BPM to Lombardi  • Reduced system downtime by 20% and increased on-line business opportunities / revenue by implementing content management system enhancements leveraging Web2.0 technologies.  • Expertise in working with IBM MQ Series and Websphere Message Broker on various platforms like Sun Solaris 8/9, AIX, SUSE Linux, and Windows NT/2000/2003/XP.  • Hosted and configured applications in IIS, IBM Websphere, and Apache Tomcat under Windows and AIX platforms  • Involving in Building the modules in Linux environment with ant script  • Involved in writing Unix Shell Script for performing automated tasks.  • Coded scripts to clean normalize, reformat data for loading into the ERP system using VB Script and Ruby scripts  • Configured Word Press publishing software for non-profit firm. Created weblog layout in HTML, CSS and PHP based on an original design according to client's branding needs.  • Built custom websites for clients using CMS's (Drupal) by coding custom modules and themes, as well as utilizing e-commerce APIs for secure payment processing.  • Developed an in house Bankruptcy Intake program in Classic ASP/ASP.NET. Program is inherited from Classic ASP Debt intake program. Used Visual Studio 2008 to develop this mix program of both Classic ASP and ASP.NET. Used vbscript, JavaScript, and added some new ASP.NET pages.  • Developed code for C, C++ to secure the transaction.  • Design and Develop programs in C++ to integrate as per the users requirements.  • Involved in developing PL/SQL stored procs and Informatica Workflows to migrate data from Legacy Mainframe/AS400 based systems.  • Led the effort in the setup of the Physical Operating environment where the Order Management System's Java, C, and COBOL applications will run. This environment includes the DB2 Client and Gateway, UNIX and Mainframe utilities.  • Expose PL/I database access layer as web service using RD/Z  • Developed and implemented Legacy system programs by using COBOL, DB2, CICS, JCL, JAVA and VSAM.  • Involved in writing stored procedures, view, user-defined functions and triggers in SQL Server database for Reports module.  • Built ASP.NET C# legal billing program that accepts barcode gun input. Also used JavaScript to advance from field to field after gun is clicked.    Environment:  Spring, IBatis, Struts, JSF, EJB, DOJO, JavaScript, JQuery, MySQL, Toad, SQL Server, DB2, Coherence, Apache AXIS2, WSDL, NetBeans, JBoss, Mercurial, ClearCase, Selenium, Water fall model, UML, JSP, SERVLET, ANT, XML, iText, EMC Documentum, Google Web Toolkit, JIRA, SWING, Cognos, Jasper Report, ILOG, Jrules, Oracle Application Development Framework, Oracle Business Process Management, Web2.0, IBM MQ Series, Apache Tomcat, Linux, UNIX, Ruby, Word Press, Drupal, ASP. C, C++, Mainframe, COBOL, PL/I, JCL, SQL, SAS VB, ASP. Junior Java Developer Bank of America - Charlotte, NC September 2012 to February 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirement gathering, writing technical proposals, planning, estimation, architecture and high level / low level design using Rational Rose and UML  • Extensively used Struts supporting the MVC architecture of the product interacting with the JSP/Servlet/Tag libraries for the UI component.  • Involved in the SOA implementation using Axis/WebLogic web service framework for different product integrations and Web Service interfaces using SOAP.  • Extensively used XSD for validations of XML transfer to the different Web Services.  • The middleware interaction used JMS / MQ series for transferring messages between different components using the JMS/Mail API framework.  • Used JBuilder IDE use for the development life cycle of the project.  • Deployed the application and tested on WebLogic Application Server.  • Developed Java Server Pages (JSP) for presentation layer using Struts Also client side validations using Struts Validator framework/ JavaScript.  • Each module was designed as a separate service interacting as Web services between each other.  • Extensively used EJB and various J2EE (JSP/EJB/JMS) component for the implementation of the modules.  • SVN used as configuration management tool.  • Deployed the application and tested on JBoss Application Server.  • Eclipse IDE use for the development life cycle of the project.  • Database Oracle used for the persistence layer.  • Written unit testing of various components with JUnit framework.  • Development in Java through IntelliJ, Eclipse Java IDE.  • Wrote ANT scripts to build application binaries JAR, WAR and EAR files.  • Used Log4j for logging the application log of the running system to trace the errors.    Environment:  Java, JSP, Servlet, Struts, AJAX, JDBC, EJB, XML, XSL, JMS, MQ Series, Oracle, WebLogic, Ant, Axis &JBuilder, Win-XP, EJB, ANT, Eclipse, Weblogic, UML. Java Developer Citi Group Inc - Cleveland, OH July 2010 to August 2012 Responsibilities:  • Provided expertise in the design and implementation of store functionality using WebSphere Commerce  • Configured DynaCache to provide an effective caching strategy, and greatly improved performance, for a B2C store.  • Responsible for the implementation of a custom catalog inventory allocation and reclamation system based on client specifications.  • The system used the OOB inventory table but required implementation of new task commands, EJBs (session) and databeans to allocate and reclaim inventory.  • Analyzed and implemented DynaCache invalidation rules to ensure that inventory messages were not incorrectly cached.  • Designed and implemented a solution to allow the persistence of secondary user profile information and also customizations to the Accelerator that allows the creation of Customer Segments based on the secondary profile information.  • Designed and implemented customized promotions to provide greater promotional flexibility to the client.  • Designed and implemented a number of WebSphere Commerce integrations, for a Japanese B2C store, with warehouse management systems, offline inventory management, triggered email messages, and SAP (sales and payment information).  • The design of the inventory management job required the use of IBM WebSphere MQ to retrieve inventory messages.  • The messages were parsed and the inventory levels were updated. Implemented EJBs (session/entity) for additional flexibility for integrations.  • Implemented BODL readers and writers to allow the load of custom data.  • Designed and implemented integrations with Responsys Interact to offload email processing to a third-party service provider.    Environment:  J2EE, XML, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, JAXB, LDAP, RUP/UML, RSA (for Analysis, Design and Development), EJB, XMLSpy, Eclipse, DB2, Application Server - WAS, Logging - log4j, IBM Rational Clear Case, Rational Clear Quest. Software Developer Goldman Sachs - Chicago, IL December 2009 to June 2010 Responsibilities:  • Designed and implemented multiple stores (B2C and B2B) using WebSphere Commerce  • Designed and implemented registration extensions for a B2C store to allow for the registration of an organization that will be associated with a currently registered user. Additionally, many customizations were implemented to the registration functionality to satisfy customer requirements.  • Implemented additional messages that will further enhance the customer experience such as organization creation notifications.  • Installed and configured the Cross View Payment Plugin to handle payments using Cyber Source.  • Implemented improvements to the WebSphere Commerce Organization Console and the Administration Console to display, and allow for update, new member information.  • Track lead for a B2C store targeted with providing the customer with a positive user experience.  • Implemented functionality for the Member and Payments subsystems to allow the user to provide additional demographic information and query his purchase history for finer detail.  • Designed and implemented AJAX server calls to dynamically retrieve shipping information.  • Implemented Web2.0 error handling and display on member pages. Configured Extended Sites stores to attract a different customer segment.  • Gathered and documented requirements for a B2C store as well as implemented customizations to all components of the store including Catalog, Merchandising, Checkout, User Management and Messaging.  • Designed and implemented many customizations comprised of additional database tables, EJBs, controller commands and jsps, to a WebSphere Commerce B2B store.  • Implemented numerous pages and commands throughout the checkout process.  • Used Apache FOP to create pdf invoices, with data harvested from xml feeds, to be sent to customers.    Environment:  Microsoft, Windows NT, WebLogic Server, Oracle, JDK Symantec Visual Café, JSP, Enterprise Java Beans, HTML, Java Script, Rational Rose. Education Master of Science in Science and Engineering Texas Tech University - Tech, Texas, US Skills ECLIPSE (7 years), JAVA (8 years), STRUTS (8 years), XML (8 years), UML (8 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages: JAVA, HTML, XML, UML, UI, SQL  J2EE Technologies: J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JPA, Hibernate, JDBC, JSTL, JMS,  Frameworks: Struts, Hibernate, Spring, Apache Camel  Web Technologies: Ajax, JQuery, JSON, Bootstrap, Groovy Grails, JavaScript, CSS  Application/Web Servers: Apache Tomcat, JBoss, IBM Web Sphere, BEA Web Logic  UI frameworks: JQuery, Angular JS, Bootstrap.  IDE Tools: Net Beans, Eclipse IDE/RCP, JBuilder, RAD.  Build Automation: Ant, Maven  Continuous Integration: Jenkins, Hudson, Docker  RDBMS: Oracle 10g, Microsoft SQL server, DB2, Cassandra NoSQL  XML/Web Services: SOAP, REST, Apache Axis, JAX-WS  Cloud Technologies: Amazon EC2  Database: Design & Object Oriented / Analysis & Design patterns UML,