Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - Visa Inc ? IT Professional Experience with 8+ years of Software in design, development, deployment Maintenance of web-based and Client-Server business applications using OOP, Java/J2EE technologies in various domains Finance, E-Commerce, Banking, Insurance.  ? Experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), which includes Integration, Implementation, Interaction, Business Analysis/Modeling, Documentation, and Testing of all software applications.  ? Ability to efficiently translate algorithms, ideas and concepts to software applications.  ? Proficient in design and rapid development of web and J2EE applications using Core Java, JSP, JSF, CSS, Servlets, EJB, JavaScript, Spring, JDBC, JNDI, JMS, SWING, HTML/DHTML, XML and Struts framework.  ? Experience in Agile software development process, Test Driven Development and Scrum.  ? Experience in client side designing and validations using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, AngularJS and NodeJS.  ? Proficient in MVC architecture using Spring framework / JSP-Servlet and J2EE Design Patterns.  ? Good Experience with Scala, Perl, Shell Scripting.  ? Good knowledge in JSF Framework to build the Applications.  ? Good Knowledge in Jenkins to automate the Deployment Process.  ? Experience in secure file transfer using SFTP tool and to enable SSH keys for password less authentication.  ? Good Knowledge in Microservices.  ? Expertise in Struts and Hibernates Frameworks.  ? Developed Graphical User Interfaces using UI frameworks AngularJS and Webpage's using HTML, CSS and JSP's for user interaction.  ? Expertise in developing SOA (Service Oriented Architecture), REST and J2EE Web Services based on SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, JAX-WS, JAXB, JAX-RPC using tools like Apache Axis and Developed RESTFUL web services using Spring MVC.  ? Comprehensive knowledge in RDBMS databases like Oracle 10g/11g, SQL Server 2005, 2008, DB2, and MySQL 4.x, 5.0.  ? Development experience in Windows, Linux, Mac OS, Docker containers and UNIX operating systems.  ? Expertise with Object Oriented Design (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis (OOA), Object Oriented Modelling (OOM) based on Unified Modelling Language (UML) architecture.  ? Used DAO access and writing DML, DDL and triggers for DB2 database and other client environment specific tools to design the client module.  ? Experience in installing, configuring, tuning Apache Tomcat, WebLogic and WebSphere.  ? Ability to work individually as well as in a team with excellent problem-solving skills, troubleshooting capabilities, learn new tools and concepts.  ? Worked on IDE's such as Eclipse/My Eclipse, JBuider.  ? Comprehensive knowledge in databases like MySQL, SQL Server, DB2 and Oracle writing Triggers, Stored Procedures and Normalization of databases.  ? Good Knowledge in Amazon Web Services.  ? Proven experience with Application Servers like IBM WebSphere 6.x/5.x/7.x, Oracle/BEA WebLogic9.x/8.x/7.x/6.x, JBoss and Tomcat 5.x/4.x/3/x.  ? Expertise in database modeling, administration and development using SQL and PL/SQL in SQL Server environments.  ? Excellent troubleshooting & problem-solving skills with Client-Server Applications & Web Application.  ? Designed Use Case Model, Use Case Diagrams, and Class Diagrams, sequence diagrams.  ? Expertise in using issue tracking tools such as Quality Center and JIRA.  ? Experience in working with build management tools like Ant, Maven and Jenkins  ? Highly curious and passionate to learn new front-end technologies and adept at promptly and thoroughly mastering them with a keen awareness of new industry developments and the evolution of programming solutions.  ? Experience in designing, developing and implementing E-Commerce, B2B, B2C applications using J2EE technologies in Banking, E-Commerce Healthcare and Insurance domains.  ? Versatile team player with good interpersonal skills, commitment, result oriented, hardworking, passionate to learn trending technologies and take on challenging tasks. Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer Visa Inc - Austin, TX June 2017 to Present Project Description:    Current Payment Industry Visa Checkout is Finding Easy way to payment financial Transition towards Payment System. Application describes about the Decision and Fraud Management (DFM) in the Visa Checkout as Part of Digital and Mobile Development Products Organization.    DFM purpose is to help the other Components to determine some action is allowed. For instance, Visa Checkout and Wallet Services components calls DFM when a consumer/user has selected card from his/her account and intends to make a purchase and DFM then determines, using Rules, whether the purchase should allow. In DFM it does Risk Check for the Visa Checkout and VDCA and other 3 Product Users based on the Different Event Types such as Login, Enrollment, Add Card and Purchase from Different Card Types (Visa, Master Card, Discover, Amex).    Risk check is for the Individual Card Holders on their Accounts and Purchases, when they use Visa Checkout application from their Devices, if the User is Login from Multiple devices and multiple Cards DFM will give Certain Score whether User can proceed or Lock the Account (Ex: to avoid the Fraudulent Transactions)  In addition to it, DFM checks If the User is in Block Listed, it will Lock the Account Immediately and do not allow further.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  ? Involved in gathering system requirements for the application and worked with the business team to review the requirements and went through the Software Requirement Specification document and Architecture document.  ? Used Agile Scrum methodologies for application development  ? Developed the Presentation and Controller layers using JSP, HTML, JavaScript, Business logic using Spring (IOC, AOP), and Persistent layer DAO, Hibernate Persistence Strategy for all modules.  ? Involved in Writing the Queries using JPA.  ? Developed test cases and performed unit test using JUnit Framework.  ? Involved in Production Support. Solved many production issues based on priority.  ? Used Spring Modules through-out the application in injecting dependencies into layers of application and integrated with Hibernate  ? Extensively used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  ? Exposed Java APIs for other applications to access data using REST API.  ? Implemented Access Control List (Authentication & Authorization) across the application.  ? Developed code compliant with design patterns for Java and J2EE  ? Involved in Writing Object Relation Mapping implementation using Hibernate and hibernate mapping configuration files  ? Implemented Servlets, JSP and AJAX to design the user interface.  ? Designed various tables required for the project in Oracle database and used the Stored Procedures in the application.  ? Used Maven to create WAR & JAR files and deployed  ? Used Jenkins for continuous delivery by enabling deployment into several environments of Test, QA and production  ? Consumed Web Service using WSDL and SOAP tested using SOAP UI  ? Configured Kafka messaging queues to update the request status in JBoss and Tomcat.  ? Used Drools engine for the Decision making quickly.  ? Used JUnit 4.0 framework for Unit testing of application  ? Used Git for version control and Log4J to create log files to debug as well as trace application.  ? I was part of all testing phases. Provided UAT support.  ? Coding, Testing the product/application (Functionality Testing, Unit Testing and Performance Testing) and Defect Tracking and Fixing are some of the main responsibilities executed.  ? Supported technical team members in development of automated processes for data extraction and analysis    Environment: JDK1.8, J2EE 5.0, Spring 5.x, Hibernate 5.12.x, Restful, JSP, Kafka, Docker Containers, Kubernetes, Multithreading, Oracle 11g, HTML 5, Java Script, Bootstrap, CSS, jQuery, JSON, XML, WebLogic, SOAP UI, JBoss, JUnit, Agile Methodology, Design Patterns, Jenkins, Apache Maven, Unix and Linux Operating Systems. Full Stack Java Developer State of North Dakota - Bismarck, ND August 2014 to May 2017 Description: State of North Dakota Information Technology Department supports IT needs of state government and higher education. ITD's mission is to provide knowledge to assist the customers in achieving their mission through the innovative use of information technology. For this, we develop software to support the client business requirements as well as the internal needs. Also, we assure the quality of software by testing of the product.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in gathering system requirements for the application and worked with the business team to review the requirements and went through the Software Requirement Specification document and Architecture document.  ? Involved in building and deployment of application in Linux environment.  ? Monitor and administer the automated build and continuous integration process to ensure correct build execution and facilitate resolution of build failures.  ? Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  ? Developed the Presentation and Controller layers using JSP, HTML, JavaScript, React JS, Backbone JS, Ember JS.  Business logic using Spring (IOC, AOP), and Persistent layer DAO, Hibernate Persistence Strategy for all modules.  Developed the Arrays and Procedures and Functions using PL/SQL.  ? Using JMS to send email or notify companies or users who have subscribed services in our product.  ? Involved in Creating the Microservices with Spring.  ? Implemented the Restful Web services URL Paths to Secure the Application.  ? Used various Core Java concepts such as Multi-Threading, Exception Handling, Collection APIs to implement various features and enhancements.  ? Used Agile Scrum methodologies for application development.  ? Involved in Creating the Cursors and Records, Exceptions Using PL/SQL.  ? Consumed Web Service using WSDL and SOAP tested using SOAP UI  ? Exposed Java APIs for other applications to access data using REST API.  • Implemented Message Queues using Active MQ and JMS for transaction management.  • Developed JSP, JSF and Servlets for the presentation tier.  ? Designed Use Case Model, Use Case Diagrams, and Class Diagrams, sequence diagrams  ? Implemented Access Control List (Authentication & Authorization) across the application.  ? Used JUnit 4.0 framework for Unit testing of application  ? Used Git for version control and Log4J to create log files to debug as well as trace application.  ? Generated reports from the database using PL/SQL and SQL  ? Created the POJO classes to make Object Relational Mapping Using JPA.  ? Involved in Units integration, bug fixing, and User acceptance testing with test cases.  ? Developed Responsive UI using Angular and various node.js, ReactJS modules.  ? Involved in design and development of UI component, which includes layered POVs and Carousels using frameworks Angular JS, JavaScript, HTML, CSS and Bootstrap, Ember JS.  ? Created the Selectors, Attributes, CSS, DOMS, Events Using JQuery.  ? Involved in creating the Procedures, Functions, Cursors, Triggers, Using Oracle 10g.  ? Used Jenkins to automate builds and deployments.  ? Implemented Maven builds for creating the JAR'S, WAR'S and EAR'S.  ? Developed scripts using BASH and BATCH files for Automation of Activities and builds.  ? Manage source code, software builds, software versioning, and defect tracking on all software maintenance tasks and projects.  Environment: JDK1.8, J2EE 5.0, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Restful, JSF, ETL, Multithreading, Oracle 10g, HTML 5, Java Script, Bootstrap, CSS, Angular.JS, ReactJS, jQuery, JSON, JSF, XML, WebLogic, ANT, SOAP UI, WebSphere 8.0, JTA, JUnit, EJB 2.1, Agile Methodology, Design Patterns, Jenkins, Apache Maven, Linux Server, Linux Operating Systems. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Erie Insurance - Erie, PA September 2013 to July 2014 Description: Erie Insurance Company is a Property and Casualty insurance service provider. The project implementation automates the process of new business procurement across different lines of business. The project involves implementation of rules-based architecture that will facilitate modifications of business rules/processes in response to changing market conditions. The next phase of the project aims at automating the entire suite of policy transactions including Policy change, Cancellation, Reinstatement and Renewal as part of automating the entire Policy Administration System.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in analysis, design and developing front end/UI using JSP, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX.  ? Tracked and monitored defects using HP Quality Center.  ? Used Ant scripts to automate the build process and to deploy the application on the WebSphere application server.  ? Involved in creating the Validation and Session Based Authentication using XML/JSON Formats in RESTful Web Services.  ? Performed Unit and System integration testing. Implemented JUnit 4.0 testing framework to write and run automated testing.  ? Experience in Perl and BASH Shell scripting in both UNIX and LINUX platforms and Windows Servers.  ? Created the Databases Using the NoSQL Databases such as MongoDB, CouchDB, Cassandra, Dynamo DB.  ? Created the Databases Using the PostgreSQL, MongoDB.  ? Developed scripts to build and deploy jar and war applications using ANT and MAVEN build tools.  ? Stored the Files in the Cloud using Amazon Web services EC2.  ? Perform Build, Unit Test and Implement for integration.  ? Created the Virtual Servers and Hosts the different Operating Systems to run the Applications and for Test Them Using Amazon Web Services.  ? Used the Mango DB to Create Cross Platform and Easy Document to Set Key-Value Pairs.  ? Used design patterns like Factory pattern and DAO to encapsulate the communication with the persistent data storage.  ? Implemented REST framework using the Spring used JSON objects for communicating with server to and from client.  ? Created the S3 for the Storing the Big Data of different Application Using Amazon Web Services.  ? Developed the Catching and Storing and Cache-Controls Using JAX-RS RESTful Web Services.  ? Created the Collection and Atomic Operations Using Mango DB, Cassandra.  ? Implemented the JAX_RS Restful Web Services and HTTP METHODS to communicate.  ? Implemented web services (WSDL) and effectively worked with SOAP and XML, XSLT  ? Written Web Services (WSDL) to exchange data between different applications which are on different platforms.  ? Designed and implemented a series of SOA compliant web services on JBOSS, WebLogic platforms.  ? Created the Singleton and Companion Object to Implement the application Interfaces using Scala.  ? Used Maven &Jenkins for building and deploying the applications.  ? Involved in the analysis, evaluation, and implementation and testing of moderately complex software applications  ? Used Agile Scrum methodology for the iterative development of the application  ? Implemented the project by using Spring Web MVC module.  ? Created the Constructors and Implemented the Inheritance Concepts using Scala.  ? Used WebSphere Application Server for deploying various components of application.  ? Implement, integrate and maintain the client server and web related applications  ? Used Ant scripts to automate the build process and to deploy the application on the WebSphere application server.  ? Implemented the RESTFUL WEBSERVICES as API.  ? Involved in creating the JAX-WS web services to Interoperability  ? Performed Unit and System integration testing. Implemented JUnit 4.0 testing framework to write and run automated testing  ? Used Hibernate as an ORM Framework for productive application development by reducing development time, complexities and increase flexibility  ? Developed Stored Procedures, Triggers and Functions and actively involved in tuning SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers.  ? Test driven development (TDD) approach was used and hence worked intensively on developing test cases.  ? Quality Control Activities such as defect tracking, fixing using JIRA.  ? Extensive Programming, testing and debugging skills to write new applications.  Environment: JDK1.7/1.6, Agile Methodology, Hibernate-JPA, Spring, Servlets, JMS, XML, SOAP, WSDL, JDBC, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Jenkins, Scala, AngularJS, Node.js, React.js, JNDI, Maven, ANT, CVS, Log4J, JUnit, Kafka, WebLogic Application Server 10.0, MySQL, Oracle, Amazon Web Services (EC2). Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Discover Financial Services January 2013 to August 2013 Description: Engaged in design, development and customization of credit card dispute business process automation for Discover, Being the leading credit card issuing institute, the Discover is responsible in resolving the credit card related transactions disputes. In credit card industry, the transaction disputes are most challenging task to be handling for both the issuer and the acquirer. The project initiative is primarily aimed at converting and upgrading the existing dispute process system, which is not robust enough to handle new challenges the dispute portfolio is facing currently. In addition, the existing application maintenance is also being performed.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Analysis, Design and Implementation translation of Business User requirements  ? Actively participated in the daily SCRUM meetings and paired programming to produce quality deliverables within time  ? Developed various modules utilizing Servlets, JSP, JSTL, and JavaScript  ? Developed Order Worksheet for pricing using JSP and provided dynamic update of JSP  ? Used Spring through-out the application in injecting dependencies into layers of application and integrated with Hibernate  ? Extensively used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database  ? Developed application business components and configured beans using Spring IOC.  ? Generated POJO classes and Hibernate mapping files using Reverse Engineering.  ? Developed DAO classes using Hibernate Template from spring with Hibernate API.  ? Designed and Implemented MVC architecture using Spring MVC.  ? Created properties files and used enhanced JTable for improved general performance.  ? Developed the Presentation layer using Spring framework  ? Developed administrative interfaces with the technologies of JSP, JavaScript, spring and Hibernate.  ? Designed and modified User Interfaces using JSP, JavaScript and CSS.  ? Involved the CRUD operations.  ? Used Eclipse as an IDE for developing the application.  ? Primarily focused on the spring components such as Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers, Model and View Objects, View Resolver.  Developed test cases and performed unit test using JUnit Framework.  ? Involved in Production Support. Solved many production issues based on priority.  ? Designed UML diagrams using UML and Rational Rose.  ? Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries to simplify the complexities of the application.  ? Developed the User Interface Screens for presentation using JSP, JSTL tags, HTML and CSS.  Environment: Java 1.5, J2EE 1.4, Servlets, JSP, JSF, Spring Framework, XML, XSLT, HTML, Bootstrap, CSS, UML, DOM, WebSphere 6.0, DB2, CVS, JUnit, Web Services, ANT, Hibernate, ICE Faces, JBoss developer studio 3.0. Java Developer TVS Group January 2011 to December 2012 Description: Reliance Retail Ltd is one of the largest retail chains in India. It has a huge pool of suppliers which must be maintained and has a system called Purchase Inquiries system allows suppliers to submit quotations for the delivery of goods. The purpose of the project allows a comparison of the prices and discounts offered by different suppliers. Having made the choice, the data is analyzed by the authorized end-users and make requests to higher management for purchasing an item from a supplier.  Responsibilities:  ? Preparation of the Detailed Design document for the project by developing business process flows, requirements definition, use cases, and object model  ? Designed and implemented a GUI framework for Swing. Developers using the framework define actions, popup menus in XML, the framework builds the graphical components.  ? Designed the class diagrams and sequence diagrams.  ? Developed the presentation layer and GUI framework that are written using JSP and client-side validations were done using JavaScript.  ? Use MVC architecture.  ? Creation Test plan. Development and coding of Test classes and Test Cases.  ? Execution of Test cases in Jbuilder.  ? Defect fixing. Client communication & Query resolution  ? Testing of the product: Unit Testing, Regression Testing, and Integration Testing.  ? Used Eclipse as the IDE and Struts Framework for developing the application.  ? Developed the JSPs for the application.  ? Created struts-Config file and resource bundles for Distribution module using Struts Framework.  ? Involved in gathering and analyzing system requirements.  ? Used Multithreading and exceptional handling in the development of applications.  ? Developed application is based on the MVC Architecture using Apache Struts framework.  ? Involved in all phases of SDLC including requirements Collection, Design and analysis of the Customer specifications from business analyst.  ? Designed and developed user interface screens using HTML, JQuery and JSP.  ? Created and maintained the configuration of the Application Framework.  ? Eclipse used as Java IDE tool for creating Action classes and XML files.  ? Involved in development of application using Rule Engine(Drools).  Used Rule Engines in applications to replace and manage some of the business logic.  ? Wrote business rules using Drools and business logic processing customs declarations.  ? Monitored Logs files and troubleshooting environment variable in Linux boxes. • Involved in maintenance of the application.  Environment: Core Java, Struts, J2ee, JBOSS Application server and Oracle, JSP, Html, JavaScript, JDBC, Servlets, Unified Modeling Language, XML, SQL statements, VSS. Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jboss, Jdk, Jms, jquery, Jsf, Jsp, Jstl, Jta, Servlets, Struts, Visual studio, C++, Dtd, Git Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages Java, C, C++, J2EE, JDK 1.5/1.6/1.7/1.8  Automation & Unit Testing Selenium &Junit, TestNG, Jasmine, Mocha, Karma, ProtractorJS, Mackito  J2EE Technologies J2EE 1.4, JAVA EE (5.0, 6.0), SERVLETS (2.4, 2.5, 3.0), JSP (2.0, 2.1, 2.2), JSF (1.1, 1.2, 2.0), JSTL, EJB (2.1, 3.0), JPA, JMS, JTA  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, SASS, LESS, NodeJS, Angular JS (1.x, 2.0), ReactJS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSF, AJAX, XML, XSD, WSDL, DTD, DOM/SAX  Editors Atom 1.1, Sublime Text 2.0,  JavaScript API's ExpressJS, EmberJS, ExtJS, MongoJS, Bootstrap, Angular UI, Type Script.  Frameworks STRUTS (1.x, 2.0), SPRING (2.x, 3.x), HIBERNATE, GWT.  IDE'S ECLIPSE, NET BEANS, INTELLIJ, IBM RAD, MYECLIPSE, VISUAL STUDIO 2010, TOAD.  Web Services SOAP, Restful, WSDL, APACHE AXIS, AWS.  Web Services Testing Tools SoapUI, Postman, SOAP Sonar, HttpMaster, TestMaker.  Web and Application Servers Apache Tomcat V 5.x, 6.x, IIS 5.0, 6.0, 7.0, WEBLOGIC, WEBSPHERE, JBOSS, Glassfish  Operating Systems UNIX, LINUX, Windows (XP, Vista, 7, Server 2003, 2008, 2010).  Databases & NOSQL DB DB2, MySQL 5.0, Oracle, SQL Server & MongoDB, Cassandra.  Build and Log Tools ANT, MAVEN, Logging tool (LOG4J), Gradle, Gulp, Grunt.  Continuous Integration Tools Jenkins, Bamboo.  Version Controls Git, Bitbucket, SVN, CLEAR CASE, SURROUND  Defect Tracking Tool JIRA, Rally, HP ALM, HP QC, Clear Quest.