Application Programmer V Application Programmer V Application Programmer V - Bank of America Davidson, NC • 7 years of software development experience in Object Oriented Programming, design and development of Multi-Tier Distributed, Web based, e-Commerce and Enterprise Applications using Core Java and J2EE Technologies following Software Development Life Cycle.  • Extensive exposure to software development life cycle (SDLC) and project management methodologies.  • Expertise in Core Java with strong understanding and working knowledge on advanced Java concepts like Collection framework, Exception Handling, Multithreading.  • Firm understanding of various Object-Oriented Design Patterns such as Singleton Pattern, MVC Pattern, Factory Pattern with exposure to UML Modeling using Rational Rose.  • Excellent knowledge and hands-on experience in IBM Sterling and Enspire Commerce Order Management systems.  • Provided primary support for the SIT, PRE-PROD and UAT, coordinated with the testing team to clarify any requirements for creating integration and regression test plans and identify test data.  • Hands-on experience in development and implementation of Model-View-Controller (MVC) using Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Data Access Objects, and Data Transfer Objects.  • Excellent development exposure to ORM tools like Hibernate that confirms to JPA 2.0 specification.  • Specialized in using Servlets, JSP, JSTL, XML, XSLT, JDBC for Web Application Development.  • Good understanding and limited experience in front end area using HTML, HTML5, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular JS, Node JS and jQuery.  • Well-versed in using JMS specification with implementations like IBM MQ Series for messaging services.  • Excellent exposure to RESTful Web Services with Java (JAX-RS) using Jersey framework.  • Hands on development experience on Unix/Linux platform and excellent Shell Scripting capabilities.  • Experience in working with Web Servers like Apache Tomcat, and IBM WebSphere Application Server.  • Excellent development experience on different IDEs like My Eclipse, IntelliJ and Databases like Oracle, SQL Server, Maria and MySQL.  • Full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) experience in the Waterfall and Agile methodologies such as SCRUM, Test Driven Development, Pair Programming and substantial exposure to all areas of project development starting from gathering requirements to project deployment and post-production support. Work Experience Application Programmer V Bank of America - Charlotte, NC June 2018 to Present • Deliver and support Host-To-Host application in Information reporting to rewrite and generate reports for different companies by sharing the transactions data and preferences data XML's with file request processing team through a SOAP webservice call.  • Worked on completely migrating applications to HORIZON, which is a fully automated software development and delivery platform.  • Involved in agile methodology to get updated with team.  • Participated in weekly backlog grooming and sprint planning meetings with scrum master and product owners.  • Worked on profile management Spring module and fixing the issues in Richfaces UI.  • Collaborated with other teams like Devops to coordinate deployments and delivery of software application.  • Use of maven for build, Jenkins and SonarQube for continuous integration.  • Used the Eclipse as IDE, configured and deployed the application onto Oracle web logic application server using Maven to automate the build and deployment process.  • Worked on SQL scripts for data access such as selection, Insertion and deletion, joins of data from oracle database.  Environment: Core Java, J2EE, Spring MVC, HTML, Richfaces, XML, Git, Ansible Tower, Bitbucket, WebLogic 12.2.1, EJB3.0, JPA, Maven, Perfaware, Jenkins, ClearQuest, Linux, Splunk, Oracle, SQL developer, Eclipse Neon, Super Putty, WinSCP. Sr. Software Engineer Railinc - Cary, NC March 2018 to June 2018 • Responsible for requirements gathering, designing, implementing, and documentation of the Umler Query Service application development using Scrum Agile methodology which generates an XML response from a JSON which has the inspection data for a Locomotive.  • Gather and review high-level business requirements.  • Developed a Spring Boot REST application which supports XML response, according to functional and technical design specifications and used SOAP UI to test all the services.  • Used SonarQube to maintain Quality Gate and Crucible for code reviews by peers and used Jenkins for Continuous Integration.  • Communicate functionality to be delivered and get clarifications on designs, enhancements or fixes needed with customer and internal project team.  • Worked with infrastructure services to make configuration changes and deploy applications as necessary.  • Developed, implemented and performed unit testing using Mockito.  • Use Railinc standard programming techniques to translate requirements and designs into code.  Environment: Java, Spring, Spring Boot, REST Web Services, Apache CXF, SonarQube, Git, Jenkins, Crucible, Junit, Apache Tomcat, Toad for Oracle, MQ Visual Edit, Windows 10, IBM Installation Manager, Oracle, Maven, Oracle VM VirtualBox Manager, Eclipse IDE, Putty, WinSCP. Java Developer Perfaware LLC - Dallas, TX February 2017 to March 2018 • Design, develop and configure project deliverables for Perfaware's clients' Unified Commerce initiatives primarily on IBM Sterling and Enspire Commerce OMS.  • Involved in understanding the requirements by interacting with business users and mapping them to design and implementing it following the AGILE Development methodology.  • Worked as part of global team to design and develop middleware, which involved creating RESTful Web Services supporting both XML and JSON and used POSTMAN Rest client to test all the services.  • Developed new dashboard for proactive monitoring and reporting of IBM Sterling data using Spring Boot and Angular JS, Node JS for Retail clients.  • Project deliverables include software components such as Java Scripts, Java code, Altova MapForce maps, Apache Camel routes and documentation such as Solution Design documents, Interface Mapping documents, Interface Flow and Detailed Design documents.  • Gather and review high-level business requirements for Omni channel Order and Inventory solutions for our clients.  • Communicate functionality delivered and get clarifications on designs, enhancements or fixes needed with client and internal project teams.  • Analyze, troubleshoot and fix functional, deployment or systemic issues with implemented solutions.  • Support UAT, Integration and Performance tests to meet clients' functional and non-functional requirements.  Environment: Core Java, Spring Boot, RESTful Web Services, POSTMAN, JSON, XML, Angular JS, Node JS, Quartz Scheduler, Maven, Apache Camel, GIT, DB2, Maria DB, Altova MapForce, RESTful Web Services and Jira. Java Developer Oracle Financial Services February 2012 to February 2014 • Involved in designing and developing a RISK product for managing financial risk by validating the collaterals that are being received for various securities in State Street Corporation.  • Participated in all phases of lifecycle starting with POC, design, development, testing, implementation and QA process for successful completion of project.  • Worked on file parsing and validation logic for files that are received by Autosys file watcher.  • Implemented the persistence layer using Hibernate and configured Hibernate with Spring to interact with the database.  • Implemented the front-end UI for the web app using JSP and JavaScript.  • Used JavaScript for the client-side validations.  • Developed a legacy application which processes trade requests using JMS and MQ.  • Configured logger, appender and layout using Log4j.  • Developed, implemented and performed unit testing using JUNIT.  • Participated in code reviews, code merge operations into a branch with team members.  • Extensive support to SIT and UAT phases of the project to deliver the project on time.  Environment: Core Java, JSP, Java Script, Spring MVC, Hibernate, MySQL, JMS, MQ, Autosys, Maven, Apache Tomcat Web Application Server, SVN, Log4j, Junit and Jira.    Project: 2 Oracle Financial Services May 2009 to February 2014 Project: 3 Java Developer Oracle Financial Services - ZA February 2011 to February 2012 • Involved in designing and developing a banking platform that offers a single access point for Standard Bank corporate and business clients based on Clear2Pays Open Payment Framework.  • This provides Standard Bank customers with a single interface through which they can view and transact on all their accounts.  • Responsible for creating UI screens using Java Swing GUI.  • Worked as part of global team to design and develop mid-tier using EJB and managing Database Transactions using Hibernate.  • Worked on logging errors in the application using Log4j.  • Developed, implemented and performed unit testing using JUNIT.  • Involved in defects fixing and incorporation of new enhancements.  • Extensive support to SIT and UAT phases of the project to deliver the project on time.  Environment: Swing (GUI), EJB, Hibernate, IBM WebSphere Application Server, Maven, Log4j, JUnit and Oracle as database with popular Core/J2EE best practices followed.    Project: 1 Java Developer Oracle Financial Services May 2009 to February 2011 • Involved in designing and developing a Deutsche Bank Fast Collect Re-Engineering Application (DBFCR App) which is a web-based Cheque Processing and Cash Management reporting application, which enables operation users and their end clients to generate and retrieve their reports via this front-end system.  • This project involves migration of existing PowerBuilder-based application to a Web-based application based on Java EE framework with a rich client interface.  • Developed several modules of the application and gained comprehensive knowledge on the functional and technical aspects of the application.  • Implemented the Front-End UI for the web app using JSP and JavaScript.  • Involved in developing Jasper Reports and used Eclipse as IDE tool to develop the application and JIRA for bug and issue tracking.  • Involved in coding for JUnit Test cases, Maven for building the application.  • Extensive support to SIT and UAT phases of the project to deliver the project on time.  Environment: Core Java, JSP, Java Script, iReport, WebLogic Server, MySQL, Autosys, Maven, Eclipse, SVN, JUnit and Jira. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science & Engineering in Computer Science & Engineering Anna University Skills Ant, Clearquest, Maven, Eclipse, J2ee, Hibernate, Intellij idea, Spring, Jax, Jaxb, Jax-ws, Jms, Jndi, jquery, Jsp, Servlets, Microsoft visual studio, Visual studio, Git, Html Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  • J2EE Technologies JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JNDI, JMS, JAXB, XSLT  • Frame Works Spring Boot, Spring 4.x, Hibernate 5.0, EJB3.x/2.x, JPA 2.0, Jersey  • Web/Application Servers WebSphere 8.5, Apache Tomcat 8.0, WebLogic 12.2.1  • IDE/Tools Eclipse, IntelliJ IDEA, Microsoft Visual Studio Code  • Webservice Technologies JAX-WS, JAX-RS, REST, SOAP, WSDL, XML, JSON, POSTMAN, SOAP UI  • JMS implementations IBM MQ Series  • Scripting Languages HTML, HTML5, DHTML, JavaScript, Shell, Angular JS, Node JS, jQuery, CSS3  • Testing and Build Tools JUnit, Mockito, SLF4j, Log4j, ANT, Maven, Jenkins, SonarQube, Crucible, Splunk  • Databases Oracle 11g, My SQL, DB2, Maria DB, Mongo DB  • Software Methodologies AGILE (SCRUM), Waterfall, SDLC  • Source Control Git, Bitbucket, Perfaware, ClearQuest