Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Sr.<span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java/J2EE Developer - Verizon Boston, MA • 6+ years of progressive experience in IT industry as Java/J2EE Developer on both Internet and Intranet based web applications those include Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Implementation.  • Well versed in both Server-side and Client-side programming using Java, J2EE Technologies.  • Worked on MVC architecture systems with application development using Core Java, J2EE, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, JSP, Servlets, XML, Maven, JUNIT, and JDBC.  • Experienced with web and application servers like WebLogic, WebSphere and Tomcat.  • Experienced in developing applications using design patterns, such as MVC, DAO, DTO, Singleton, Business Delegates, Factory Design, Proxy, Observer patterns etc.  • Expertise in developing and updating a web pages using HTML, CSS, JSON, Ajax, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Worked with DevOps team and DevOps tools like Jenkins/Puppet/Git.  • Worked with Web Services technologies such as RESTful, SOAP, WSDL and Rest APIs.  • Experienced using Amazon Web services such as Elastic Transcoder, EC2 and S3.  • Well versed with core Java concepts like collections, multithreading, serialization and Java beans.  • Developed JAVA Messaging Service components to send messages from one application to other application internally.  • Experienced in writing SQL, PL/SQL and Stored Procedures for accessing and managing databases queries with Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL, and DB2.  • Experienced with writing Java Batch Processes. Hands on experience with Model2 (MVC) architecture and Jakarta Struts/Tiles. Experienced with Integrated Development Environment (IDE) tools such as, Eclipse, My Eclipse, NetBeans, IntelliJ.  • Experience working on both UNIX based and Windows environments.  • Involved in AWS services. Created the VM and hosted the media services via AWS.  • Experienced in Linux shell scripting. Experience in working with Agile SCRUM Methodology. Experienced working on TTD using JUnit framework. Experienced in software design aspects and technical documentation, along with strong analytical and organizational skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Verizon - Piscataway, NJ May 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in end to end SDLC phases of the application.  • Built and consumed restful webservices, provided xml and JSON response format to support various client services.  • Configured Jenkins and integrated with plugins such as fortify scan, sonarqube, source repository and artifactory. Error logs were stored in logstash.  • Worked on Unix scripts to FTP, encrypt/decrypt, and achieve files from mainframe to application servers.  • Cassandra tables were used as a lookup table and the entire table is cached in memory as a first level memory.  • Used Log4J logging framework for logging messages at various levels.  • Involved in fixing code vulnerability issues with Fortify tool.  • Used Jboss, IntelliJ, STS and eclipse as development tools.  • Used MySQL workbench and dbvisualizer as database tools.  • Used SoapUI, Postman and RESTClient to test the REST and SOAP APIs.  • Involved in creating POC on Spring boot and angular JS (versions 1 and 2) with CRUD operations.  • Knowledge on ConceptWave and Apache velocity tools.  • Involved in maintenance, modernization, and production support for applications like TPS (Translation production system), IRTS (International routing translations system), RT7 (Routing termination 7), Commship (Common switch host interface package). These systems automate translation and routing activities to various classes of the switches.  • Worked in production support and testing activities on the CMIS (Call management Interface system), a trouble ticket management system to manage incidents for the applications and systems they support.  Environment: Java/J2EE, Java Script, JDBC, AJAX, JSF, JPA, BootStrap, AngularJS, Spring boot, Spring Batch, Log4j, HTML, CSS, JSON, RESTful, SOAP, MySQL/MySql workbench, Oracle/Oracle SQL developers, Tomcat, IBM WebSphere, JIRA, Eclipse, STS, Agile Scrum, Test Driven Development, SVN, Git Jenkins, Gherkins, Selenium, Open shift, Docker, Maven, SoapUI. Jr. Java/J2EE Developer Optum - Eden Prairie, MN July 2016 to April 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developed front-end code with HTML, CSS and Bootstrap framework.  • Involved in writing JavaScript/jQuery Ajax calls to retrieve the data from the back-end.  • Wrote AngularJS controller, directives, services, and route providers.  • Developed an AngularJS workflow manager leveraging Angular-UI's state router for configuration and management of multi-step user input flows.  • Developed backend functionality using SpringMVC/Spring Boot, Thymeleaf and Spring JPA.  • Implemented Java EE components using Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring transactions and Spring security modules.  • Used JPA and Hibernate with entity beans for interacting persistence layer for CRUD operations.  • Used GIT and SVN as version control systems.  • Created build and deployment scripts using Maven.  • Built application to schedule a data reporting to network drive using Spring boot.  • Participated in development of a well responsive single page application using ReactJS framework and JavaScript  • Used Log4J logging framework for logging messages at various levels.  • Installed and configured MySQL on Linux and Windows environments.  • Designed and created MySQL database tables to normalize the existing tables.  • Created SQL views and stored procedures to join multiple tables.  • Involved in fixing code vulnerability issues with Fortify tool.  • Worked with Continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins and GitHub/Codehub.  • Was a part of Agile environment that used Rally as the tool and Scrum methodology.  • Used Jboss, IntelliJ, STS and eclipse as development tools.  • Used MySQLworkbench and dbvisualizer as database tools.  • Used SoapUI, Postman and RESTClient to test REST and SOAP APIs.  Environment: Java/J2EE, Java Script, JDBC, AJAX, JSF, JPA, BootStrap, AngularJS, Spring boot, ReactJS, Log4j, HTML, CSS, JSON, RESTful, SOAP, MySQL/MySql workbench, Oracle/Dbvisualizer, Tomcat, IBM WebSphere, Jboss, IBM ClearQuest, JIRA, Eclipse, STS, Agile Scrum, Test Driven Development, SVN, Git (codehub), Rally, Jenkins, Gherkins, Selenium, Open shift, Docker, Maven, SoapUI Java/J2EE Developer SnagFilms - New York, NY October 2015 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for design and documentation for different modules. Worked with architecture to design and identify the existing models and resources. Created class diagram, sequence diagram and generated the resource model to fit the requirements.  • Involved in front end and backend development, user interface, distributed systems development  • Design, develop, implement and support complex Java based web applications.  • Familiar with Responsive web design  • Intensively applied core Java concepts like multithreading, exception handling to write business logic class  • Responsible for designing the User Interface by coding in HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, Bootstrap to build this SPA Single Page Application  • Responsible for supporting the production defects and new development and enhancements. Primarily worked on Reporting, Transaction, Approval Routing modules and stream module.  • Worked on User Management Module, responsible for implementing different successful login Handler and logout handler, used LDAP as authentication provider and handle roles and permission using spring security.  • Worked in reporting modules to implements more than 31 types of ad-hoc reports based on different time frame, i.e. on windows, on email and scheduled reports in html, pdf and xls format.  • Worked on ReactJS to create views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data with server as a Single Page Application (SPA).  • Extensively used multithreading, collections and exception handling  • Worked on Order History/ Invoice History/ Quote History report. Used Spring MVC framework and along with apache POI, IText to enable the various report formats.  • Provided technical guidance to business analysts, gathered the requirements and converted them into technical specifications and artifacts.  • Used test driven development methodologies. Used Junit, Mockito for Unit test and 95% code coverage.  • Designed and developed Subscription registration and login screens using GSP (Groovy Server Pages) and Bootstrap.  • Performed client-side validation through JavaScript. Used AJAX to invoke the server side controller to get content.  • Involved in AWS services. Registered, created and hosted the media services via AWS platform.  • Involved in implementing the Restful web services using Spring MVC, managed automatic content negotiations and data can be exchanged in JSON or XML format.  • Used Spring Framework for dependency injection and AOP.  • Worked writing various reports using spring JDBC and worked on implementing DAO with hibernate as well as with spring JDBC. Moved our smart tracker legacy module to IBatis implementation.  • Responsible for design and implementation of SOAP services using JAX-WS for various media service exposures. Involved in creating common api plugin for soap service consumptions as well with SAAJ implementation internal communication purpose.  • Used Maven as build tool and customized the configuration for different environments using Ant plugin task. Used JPA ( Java Persistence API) for Object Relational mapping.  • Used Hibernate APIs to create connections and to retrieve and store images.  • Created stored procedures to interact with database. Created and ran test cases with JUnit framework.  • Involved in managing and implementing the common instrumentation framework for using JMS.  • Used Log4J for logging application also customized the logging framework for asynchronous logging.  • Involved in agile/scrum team. Participated in various grooming and sprint planning activities.  Environment: Java/J2ee, JDK1.6/JDK1.8, Multithreading Spring Security, Tapestry, JDBC, Spring, MVC, Spring Security, Spring AOP, Spring Batch, Ajax, Groovy, Bootstrap, GSP, JMS, JDBC, JavaScript, JQuery, JQuery Template, Backbone, AngularJS , ReactJS ,HTML5, CSS3, HTML, Hibernate, Jenkins/Hudson, Jira, Rally, Web Services, JUnit, XML, Maven, Ant, WebSphere, GIT, MySQL, AWS, JBoss 5.x/JBoss 6EAP, Tomcat 7/8. Sonar, Sonatype, Eclipse, Linux/Unix, Subversions/SVN, Adobe CQ5 Java/J2EE Developer/Analyst Citizens Bank - Providence, RI May 2013 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in front end and backend development, user interface, distributed systems development, design, develop, implement and support complex Java based web applications.  • Responsible for writing the component for Assets, Demand Assets, Location, and Customers and also involved in developing UML based Use cases for different sub component of the system.  • Helped in optimizing the Query. Replace previous query with different optimized SQL at backend. Used Tapestry for the structuring the pages and component within pages and use template mechanism to renter output.  • Helped in optimizing the Query. Replaced previous queries with different optimized SQL at backend.  • Used Java Script to perform client-side validation and Struts-Validation Framework for server side validation.  • Developed application using Java web-based technologies such as Servlets, JSP, and Java Web Services.  • Developed JSPs and Servlets to implement MVC pattern. Designed and developed UML diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Developed components using Java multithreading concept.  • Developed JavaScript codes for UI framework for common usage. Involved in designed and writing various java scripts common utilities functionalities.  • Developed SQL, PL/SQL scripts to modify the existing database according to the requirement changes and developed Stored Procedures to interact with database using Oracle.  • Developed generic interfaces, default implementations and exposed them as Restful web services.  • Responsible for handling various EDI transactions. Worked in integrating sap and EDI interfaces.  • Work on migrating middleware with site minder solution. Involved in apache and other load balancer related work.  • Familiar with EDI transactions 270/271, 276/277, 837  • Worked with ANT build tool for deploying and testing the services. Also involved in migration of the user tracking module into Mango DB (big data). This was need for tracking all our user information so that application can be analyzed.  • Worked on defect fix issues for existing system that used SOAP and spring.  • Developed Web Services to implement SOA using SOAP.  • Used JUnit for Unit Testing.  Environment: Java, J2EE, JDK1.6/1.7, Multithreading, ActiveMQ, MSQL, Unix, HTML, MSQL, JavaScript, JDBC, jQuery, Spring, Spring Security, Web Services, My Eclipse/Eclipse, MVC, Spring, XML, HTML, PL/SQL, UML, WebLogic, SVN, REST, SoapUI, Oracle, Rally, HP Quality Center, JMeter, Git, Team City, Jenkins, Maven/Ant, Mango DB, Big Data, Struts 2, Hibernate 3.x, JQuery, Subversion, EDI transactions, PostgreSQL, Tomcat/Web logic 8.x. Java/J2EE Developer Pan-American Life Insurance Company - New Orleans, LA November 2011 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  • Worked on the complete life cycle of the project: Design, Development and Testing using OOA and OOD.  • Used JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, CSS, and HTML for the presentation layer.  • Involved in Analysis and Design of various modules using J2EE Architecture and MVC Design Pattern.  • Agile methodology was used for task allocation, tracking and estimation.  • Designed and implemented application using Spring MVC, Spring Annotations, Spring AOP, Spring Transactions, Hibernate, and DB2.  • Implemented business logic using Session Beans, Servlets and stored procedures.  • Wrote SQL stored procedures for database transactions with high volume data.  • Designed and developed DAO layer with Hibernate standards, to access data from DB2.  • Used J2EE design patterns such as Session Façade and Data Access Object.  • Developed REST APIs using Jersey/JAX-RS frameworks.  • Implemented the logging mechanism using Log4j framework.  Environment: Java, Hibernate/IBATIS, spring, Spring MVC, JDBC, REST, JAX-WS, SOAPUI WSDL, JQuery, CVS, AJAX, HTML5, JavaScript, CSS, JSP/Servlets, Web Services, WebLogic,  DB2, Rally, JIRA. Education Bachelor's Skills J2EE (6 years), JAVA (6 years), SPRING (6 years), HTML (6 years), JDBC (6 years) Additional Information SKILL SET  Languages Java/J2EE, Groovy, SQL, C/C++  Technologies JDBC, AJAX, JSP, Servlets, Java Script, JMS, Java Beans, EJB, JSF, JPA, Bootstrap, AngularJS, Tapestry  Frameworks Spring MVC, Spring boot, Struts, JUnit, Log4j  ORM Tools Hibernate  Mark Up languages HTML, XHTML, CSS, XML, JSON  Web Services SOAP, WSDL, REST, XML, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, JAXB  Databases Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server, DB2  Web/Application Server WebLogic, Tomcat, IBM WebSphere, JBoss, Glassfish  Web service testing tools Postman chrome plugin, soap UI  Bug tracking Tools IBM ClearQuest, JIRA  IDE Eclipse, MyEclipse, NetBeans, IntelliJ  Development Methodologies Agile Scrum, Waterfall/Spiral SDLC, Test Driven Development  Cloud Docker, kubernetes  Versioning Tools CVS, SVN, IBM ClearCase, Subclipse, Git