Full stack Java Developer Full stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full stack Java Developer - IOLAP Frisco, TX * Over 8+ years of extensive IT experience in developing, design, analysis, testing of various web-based, SOA based and client/server applications in multi-platform environments with JAVA/J2EE technologies.  * Experience in various Agile Methodologies like Test Driven Development (TDD), SOA, SCRUM,andWaterfall.  * Proficient in OOAD Technologies developing use cases, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Class Diagrams using case tools like Microsoft Visio and Rational Rose.  * Highly proficient in using OOPS for building n-tier architecture systems with hands-ondeveloping expertise in front-end UI layer, core business frameworks and Back-end database layer integration.  * Experience in Front-End UI development skills using scripting languages like HTML5, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, Angular JS, Node.js, Bootstrap, Tag Libraries, JSTL.  * Expert in Core Java with astrong understanding of Garbage Collector, SWING, Collections, Multithreading, Event handling, Exception handling,andGenerics.  * Expertise in implementation of J2EE Technologies: JSP, JTS, Servlets, JSF, JSTL, EJB transaction implementation, JMS, Struts, Swing, Hibernate, Java Beans, JDBC, XML, Web Services, JNDI, Swing, Serialization,and Externalization.  * Good knowledge in developing single page applications (SPA s) using the JavaScript libraries like AngularJSand MeteorJS.  * Proficient knowledge on Angular 2.x/4.x with NGRX to obtain MVVM design flow, developed front-end applications by using Angular JS, Backbone JS, Ember JS, Knockout JS,andExtJS to obtain Model View Controller (MVC) design flow.  * Good knowledge in implementing ES6 features like arrows, block scoping, enhanced object literals, promises, and modules.  * Experience in developing web applications on MVC based frameworks like spring, Spring IOC, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, and Spring MVC.  * Experience in integrating the internal security model into new projects with Spring Batch, Spring Micro Services and Spring Boot, Pivotal Cloud Foundry and Netflix Eureka.  * Experience in development of REST and SOAP based web services using AXIS, WSDL, UDDI, XML, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, JAXB, JAX-RPC, AJAX technologies and Jersey frameworks.  * Experience using J2EE design patterns like Singleton, Prototype, Business Delegate, Session Façade Pattern, DAO, MVC, Abstract Factory and Factory Pattern.  * Expertise in XML technologies such as DTD, XSL, XSLT, XML schemas, XPath, XSL-FO and parsers like SAX, DOM.  * Expertise in Back-end/server-side java technologies such as: Web services, Java persistence API (JPA), Java. Messaging Service (JMS), RabbitMQ, Java Database Connectivity (JDBC), Java Naming and Directory Interface (JND).  * Strong knowledge ofHibernate and in using Hibernate Connection Pooling, HQL, Collections, Hibernate Caching, Hibernate Transactions, Optimistic Locking.  * Implemented security and authentication concepts such as OAuth 2.0, and Cryptographic algorithms.  * Expertise in open source framework Object Relational Mapping (ORM) tools like Hibernate and used Hibernate Annotations to reduce time at the configuration level.  * Expertise in databases such as Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server, NoSQL, Mongo DB, Cassandra,and IBM DB2 databases to manage tables, views, indexes, sequences, stored procedures, functions, triggers,and packages.  * Strong experience in different IDEs like RAD, Eclipse, Spring Tool Suite and IntelliJ IDEA and worked on various application and web servers like JBoss, BES Web Logic, IBM Web Sphere, Glassfish, Camel and Apache Tomcat.  * Experience in AWS Solutions using EC2, S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Dynamo DB and Auto Scaling Groups.  * Experience with GitHub and AEM and container orchestration like Kubernetes.  * Experience with JUnit, Mockito, Log4j, and SLF4J in developing test cases and determining application functionality.  * Experience in development, deployment,and troubleshooting Web-based and enterprise based applications on Windows, UNIX,and Linux platforms.  * Experience in building applications using ANT, Maven,andGradle.  * Knowledge of developing search components using Apache Solr, which includes custom search handlers and custom handlers.  * Experience in using code repository tools - Tortoise SVN, CVS, GitHub, and Visual Source Safe. Work Experience Full stack Java Developer IOLAP - Frisco, TX August 2018 to Present Description: IOLAP, Inc. is a big-data and advanced-analytics consultancy operating at the forefront of Technology for more than two decades. With a client-centric and business-outcome perspective, we are  Completely focused on data technologies to create solutions that bring efficiencies, security, and scale to Our clients.    Responsibilities:  * Used REST Client and POSTMAN to test the rest-based services and used JUnit and Mockito to test the middleware services.  * Created Hibernate mapping files, sessions, transactions, Query and Criteria to fetch the data from SQL based schema  * Took part in setting up the routing configuration using Angular 4 router for various views and subviews.  * Worked with Angular2 to generate various components, routes, services, pipes and structured the application code.  * Developed various screens for the front end using Angular2 and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager). Used Node Cron package to schedule periodically executable jobs.  * Good knowledge on client-side JavaScript framework Angular 2.x/Angular 4.x with NGRX to achieve MVVM design flow.  * Implemented persistence layer using Hibernate that uses the POJOs (which do not have the business processes) to represent the persistence database.  * Developed and deployed EJBs on BEA WebLogic 8.0/7.1 application server.  * Used Redis to route event data between application instances. Application servers (node.js) forwarded redis events to browser clients via socket.io.  * Used various core concepts such as Multi-Threading, Exception Handling, Collection API's to implement various features.  * Created a framework for all the backend calls and used JAX-B for customized XML parsing.  * Developed session EJB and message-driven bean (MDB) to process JMS XML messages.  * Managed connectivity using JDBC for querying/inserting & data management including triggers and stored procedures.  * Involved in design of JSP's and Servlets for navigation among the modules.  * Created several custom tags for JSP for maximum re-usability for user interface components.  * Used JDBC calls in the JSP to access MySQL Database, Struts Action Servlet to route the request to corresponding Action Classes.  * Involved in the development of DOM parsing, SQL procedures and in development of IVR in VXML, CCXML by using Java and JSP.  * Used log4j and slf4j for the logging and reporting different log files and resolved defects raised in UAT and testing. Worked with the logging framework to make it optimized for the Amazon Kibana.  * Performed unit testing using JUnit framework and for testing Entities and the backend services.  * Created RESTFULwebservices for refreshing the cache memory of the data.  * Developed Python scripts to automate the deployments to the WebSphere application server.  * Used Rational Clear Case and Clear Quest for version control and change management.  * Developed a free-tier Dockers dashboard for the web application using React.js.  * Changing the AWS infrastructure Elastic Beanstalk to Docker with Kubernetes.  * Worked with Middleware using Message-driven by POJO (MDP) after creating QCF, Queue on WebSphere server, and using JMS template for asynchronous functionality for multiple users.  * Allied, configured and hosted the Oracle, Tomcat app servers and Cassandra DB servers on physical servers (Linux, Windows), and Amazon AWS virtual servers (Linux).  * Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins and GitHub and AWS AMI's  * Designed, built and deployed application using the AWS stack (Including EC2, Mongo DB, Docker, Kubernetes Orchestration container (EKS) focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance and auto-scaling.  * Used Hibernate in the persistence layer and implemented DAO's to access data from thedatabase.  * Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into thedatabase and used Test driven approach.  * Wrote Python Scripts to generate dummy data and requests.  * Worked on their test automation framework written in Python and Selenium.  * Used Node.js to run Grunt tasks and build properly the project (compile, minify, concat etc.) and Implement modules into Node JS to integrate with designs and requirements. Used GruntJS, BowerJS, Express with NodeJS.    Environment: Java 9, STS, Tomcat 7, Gulp, Spring Tool Suite, Spring, Spring Boot, Hibernate, MongoDB, RESTful Web Service, Oracle, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Angular LS, Angular2, Angular4, Node JS, React JS, Redis, JSP, Struts, ,JMS, Jenkins, Agile, JIRA tool, Selenium, Kubernetes, Log4j, Maven, AWS, Cassandra. Full Stack Java Developer AIM Specialty Health - Chicago, IL May 2017 to July 2018 Description: AIM Specialty Health (AIM) recognizes the key role that medical oncology practices play in the delivery of quality cancer care. In collaboration with your patients' health plan, we are implementing the Anthem Cancer Care Quality Program including enhanced reimbursement for certain Pathways.    Responsibilities:  * Involved in Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development,and Testing of theapplication using AGILE methodology (SCRUM).  * Developed the web interface using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, and Bootstrap.  * Designed Java Components and integrated using spring framework with Hibernate Object/Relational persistence mechanism.  * Used Structs Framework in the application, which is based on MVC design pattern  * Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML, afile that contains declarations and business classes are wired-up to the frontend managed beans using Spring IOC pattern.  * Implemented the application using Spring IOC, Spring MVC Framework, and Spring Batch and handled the security using Spring Security.  * Worked on developing web service calls using SOAP and WSDL.  * Having good experience in implementing the Node.js server-side code to interact with MongoDB to store and retrieve data by using the Mongoose drivers.  * Involved in installing, upgrading, configuring and Troubleshooting IBMWeb Sphere Application Server and IBM MQ on AIX and Linux  * Used Web Services for transmission of large blocks of XML data using SOAP.  * Tested the application functionality with JUnit Structs Test Cases.  * Worked with NPM commands and using package. JSON for managing dependencies and dev-dependencies of Node.js applications.  * Validated Customer, Account, Address and Order entities with Drools rules engine.  * Used Node.js for server-side code and Express.js as the framework. Written callback functions for the Restful API.  * Identified and fixed various production issues related to IBM MQ server on Linux, UNIX,and Windows system.  * Used Structs Model-View-Controller approach to help design new features and fix Jira bugs and request.  * Developed Rest Web services for IOS and Android mobile websites and apps.  * Involved in integrating JAX-RS into Spring Boot application.  * Implemented Micro Services using Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Spring Micro Services and enabled discovery using Netflix Eureka Server.  * Deployed the Docker image of services building Docker file and build a continuous delivery pipeline for containers using AWS Code Pipeline and Amazon ECS.  * Added the required jars to the drools files, build the package and deployed it on the JBoss server.  * User level support for multiple applications including web-based, iOS,and Android mobile apps.  * Worked throughout the full stack (Node.js, Angular.js) to see software extensions through to completion.  * Implemented Restful Web Services to retrieve data from client side using Micro Services architecture.  * Sending requests and responses toMicroservices through REST/HTTP.  * Designed and developed DAO layer with Hibernate standards, to access data from SQL Server.  * Created SQL Server logins and assigning roles and Authentication models as a part of Security.  * Used multithreading in programming to improve overall performance using Singleton design pattern in Hibernate Utility class.  * Designed, built and deployed application using the AWS stack (Including EC2, Mongo DB, Docker, Kubernetes Orchestration container (EKS) focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance and auto-scaling.  * Responsible for building scalable distributed data solutions using Datastax Cassandra.  * Developed the persistence layer using Hibernate Framework, created the POJO objects and mapped using Hibernate annotations and Transaction Management.  * Used JIRA for bug tracking, issue tracking,and project management.  * Used GIT as source control management giving a huge speed advantage on centralized systems that must communicate with a server.    Environment: Java, Agile Methodology, Structs, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Drools, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Spring Batch, Spring Security, HTML5, CSS3, Node.js, Bootstrap, AngularJS, JSTL, jQuery, AJAX, AWS EC2, S3, Micro Services, Hibernate, Restful API, JIRA, RabbitMQ, MAVEN, JUnit, Log4J, GIT. Full Stack Java Developer State Street Corporation - Boston, MA January 2016 to April 2017 Description: State Street Corporation, known as State Street, is an American worldwide financial services company. State Street was founded in 1792 and is the second oldest financial institution in the United States of America. It is one of the largest asset management companies in the world with $2.78 trillion (USD)    Responsibilities:  * Understanding user change requirements and analyzing the source systems and Developed UI pages using JSP&Spring MVCframework.  * Preparing sequence diagrams for some components.  * Involved in creating & consuming Restful web services to expose to other applications.  * Created User defined exception classes using Java.  * Hands on experience in creating components using ReactJS.  * Used Rest API to expose the contract rates for clients and performed versioning of existing services.  * Wrote spring configuration file to define beans, define the data source and Hibernate properties.  * Used Maven build script for building and deploying the application and Designing new database tables for the enhancements.  * Designed, developed and implemented unit tests and product features.  * Formulated and executed agile processes for performance.  * Programmed reusable code and prepared technical designs.  * Deploying the applications using Docker container services and building continuous integration (CI) and continuous deployment (CD) pipeline using Jenkins with GitHub.  * Developed and executed software systems utilizing JavaScript and Groovy.  * Extensively used Hibernate in the data access layer to access and updates in the database.  * Designed and developed web site application using AJAX, AngularJS, Bootstrap, Java Swing, CSS, HTML5, jQuery, JSP, Tiles framework and XML.  * Involved in Construction of UI using jQuery, AngularJS, Ext.js, Bootstrap and JavaScript, Perl scripting.  * Developed the java code using Eclipse as IDE.  * Responsible for building/deploying consistently repeatable build/deployments to company production and non-production environments using JENKINS & BUILD Pipelines.  * Used Micro services for scalability and reliability of the applications in addition to loosening coupling.  * Worked with the development team to generate deployment profiles and Jenkins.  * Developed all client-side logical implementation part of applications with AngularJS.  * Worked on AngularJS framework to augment browser-based applications with MVC Capability, built dynamically generated dropdown lists using Ajax, jQuery,and AngularJS.  * Involved in requirements gathering and Capacity planning for Multi-Datacenter (four) and Cassandra Cluster used Oracle DB and MongoDB for Database related activities.  * Experience in working with the NoSQL Database like MongoDB to manage extremely large data sets.  * Created an on-the-fly configuration changes set up, with application saved in Node.js.  * Extensively used Spring IOC architectural model to inject objects based on the selection of components like setter injection and Interface injection to manage the object reference  * Writing Java classes, reusable components and Java Beans for getting data from Oracle tables.  * Performing the Unit testing and basic functional testing with a different set of data.    Environment: Java SE, JDK, Hibernate 3.0, spring, Swing, AWS, HTML, CSS, Angular, Bootstrap, jQuery, SOAP, Node JS, XML, XSLT, SQL Server, Maven, Apache Tomcat, Struts, Eclipse, MongoDB, SVN, Docker, Windows XP, Jenkins. Full Stack Java Developer Rockwell Automation - San Jose, CA March 2014 to December 2015 Description: Rockwell Automation, the world's largest company dedicated to industrial automation and information, makes its customers more productive and the world more sustainable    Responsibilities:  * Involved in the requirements Analysis meetings and all phases of the software development life cycle ( SDLC ).  * Provided the maintenance and support for the application in the Productionphase.  * Followed Agile methodology and attending daily SCRUM meetings.  * Used HTML3 , CSS3 , JavaScript and DHTML to create menu, search & portfolio and report creation interface.  * Performed Validations on User Interface data using JSF validations using built-in beans and JavaScript and HTML pages.  * Worked with Java Multithreaded programming to develop multithreaded modules and applications.  * Implemented Different Design patterns like singleton, factory and J2EE design patterns like Business delegate, session façade,and DAO design patterns.  * Developed UI using Swing,JSP,HTML,CSS,JavaScript, and jQuery.  * Designed and Developing End to End customer self-service module using annotation-basedSpring MVC,Hibernate, Java Beans.  * Customized RESTful Web Service using JAX-RS library and Spring RESTful API, sending JSON format data packets between front-end and middle-tier controller.  * Used HQL as the query languages in Hibernate Mapping and Integrating Spring and Hibernate framework.  * Involved in writing hibernate mapping files for hibernate Dao's and injecting them using configuration files on MySQL Database.  * Utilized AWS Services platform to upload data into AWS S3 buckets, creating EC2 instances and to deploy the Dockerized Container services.  * Used Eclipse as IDE tool to develop the application and JIRA for bug and issue tracking.  * Developed microservices architecture for data transmission using RabbitMQ to reduce administrative cost.  * Used best coding practices in MVC architecture in EXTJS  * Designed Frontend withinobject-orientedJavaScript Framework like AngularJS  * Participated in the development of a well responsive Single Page Application (SPA) using AngularJS framework, JavaScript,and jQuery in conjunction with HTML, CSS3 standards, with front-end UI team.  * Used JQ grid/JSON/AJAX and Custom HTML Helper Classes to implement asynchronous calls to the server to update the changes.  * Reactive Microservices using the Akka reactive framework, functional programming using Java 8 and Scala, multi-threaded programming.  * Used JIRA as a Change Management/ Work Management/ SCRUM Agile Tool.    Environment: JDK 1.5, ADF, Java 8.0, Servlets, RHEL, XML, JSON Rest, Linux, ExtJS, Struts1.2, Selenium, Swing, HTML5, Web Service(JAX-WS), Oracle, SOAPUI, ANT, Spring Boot. Java Developer Campassites software solutions, Benhaluru - IN December 2012 to February 2014 Description: Compassites has evolved into a trusted technology partner to many global companies. It has incubated over 20 startups during its initial years and has a strong startup DNA. Some of the products that Compassites developed during this time include Jiffle and iCharts. Since the past several years, Compassites has been serving enterprises in their digital transformation journey.    Responsibilities:  * Involved in full life-cycle of the project from requirements gathering to transition.  * Designed interactive views using jQuery, HTML, CSS, JavaScript,andAJAX to provide the excellent user experience.  * Responsible for performing the backend database development for the modules developed. Extensively written SQL queries for storing, retrieving and updating.  * Create and implemented web services which are used to communicate with other departments.  * Used AJAX for partial page loading, constant updating, smooth interfaces, simplicity,and rich functionality.  * Created maven archetypes for generating fully functional REST web services supporting both XML and JSON message transformation. Archetypes built on Spring 3.2 technology.  * Effectively used jQuery, JavaScript Library for traversing the HTML document, event handling,and AJAX interactions.  * Maintaining existing application in terms of bug fixing, code review, enhancing and functionalities.\    Environment: Java, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML, JSP, AJAX, My SQL, Maven, Web Service, Apache Tomcat, Rest Services. JavaDeveloper Cybertech Systems - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2011 to November 2012 Description: CyberTech Systems and Software doesn't want your entry into the brave new world of information technology to be painful. The company provides a variety of IT consulting services and specializes in customer relationship management, enterprise resource planning, application development, geographic information systems, and software lifecycle services. Clients come from fields such as manufacturing, transportation, and energy, as well as the public sector.    Responsibilities:  * Developed the front-end by doing hands-on coding using semantic markup, HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript and other front-end technologies as required by the program with a focus on usability.  * Designed Web pages by HTML and the query processing's done with the help of Servlets and JDBC.  * Performed Client-side validations using JavaScript like user validations etc.  * Producing, modifying and maintaining websites and web applications.  * Implemented Multithreading for handling multiple requests and for high performance.  * Used ANT built tool for compiling and generating a war file.  * Developed Custom XML Parser for parsing large XML files and update the data to the database using SAX based Parser.  * Handled exceptions that arise during the execution of a program using Exception handling.  * Followed agile software development practice paired programming, test driven development,and scrum status meetings.    Environment: HTML, XHTML, CSS, Java Script, JDK, J2EE, Servlet, XM, Oracle, Web Sphere Application Server. Education Bachelor's Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Java technologies, Spring, Javabeans, Jdk, Jms, jquery, Jsf, Jsp, Rmi, Servlets, Struts, Docker, Git, Gradle, Groovy Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Java (JDK 1.5, 6, 7, 8,9), Python, JavaScript, PL/SQL, HTML (5), CSS (3), Groovy.  Java Technologies JUnit, J2EE, EJB, JSF, Servlets, Portals, JSP, RMI, JMS, JDBC, JPA, Swing, JavaBeans  Scripting jQuery, JavaScript, Shell Script, Python  Frameworks  Spring (MVC, AOP, ORM, Web Service, DAO, Social, Security, etc.), Hibernate, Bootstrap, Struts, Tiles, DWR (Direct Web Remoting), Apache Camel    IDE Eclipse, IntelliJ, NetBeans, IBM Rational Application Developer (RAD)  Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS, SSL, XML, AJAX, Web Services, REST  Databases Oracle, MySQL.  Database Tools SQL Developer, TOAD.  Cloud AWS,S3, EC2, S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer.  Build Tools Gradle, Maven, ANT, Docker  Other Tools JIRA, Confluence, Bam, Puppet, Chef, boo, Sonar, Fisheye  Version Control Git, SVN, CVS, VSS (Visual Source Safe)  Operating Systems Windows (XP, 7, 8/8.1, 10), Linux, Unix