Senior Java Developer Senior <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Java Developer - Change Healthcare Lombard, IL • Around 7+ years of experience in analysis, design, implementation and testing of client/server applications, web applications using Java, J2EE Technologies, JavaScript and Database administration.  • Experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Analysis, Design, Implementation, Integration, QA methodologies, Test Strategy. Test metrics and maintenance of applications.  • Thorough working knowledge in different domains like Finance, Insurance, Banking etc.  • Strong Knowledge and experience in the design and development of Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JSF, Spring, XML, Java Script, Web Services, Hibernate, Spring Batch, PL/SQL, JMS, SQL.  • Extensive experience in developing web page quickly and effectively using HTML5 and CSS3.  • Developed front-end screens with HTML5, DHTML, CSS3, JavaScript and JSPs.  • Had experience in designing and developing Web Solutions using Apache, Web Logic Application Server and JBoss application server.  • Used jQuery to make RESTful API calls and Designed/documented REST APIs for collection and retrieval of high data.  • Experienced in AWS Cloud platform and its features which includes EC2, AMI, AWS VPC.  • Add project users to the AWS account with multi factor authentication enabled and least privilege permissions.  • Used Maven build tool to achieve more functionality for build process.  • Strong hands-on experience with Spring IO, Spring Boot, Spring Security, Spring Batch.  • Developed single page applications using Angular 2, Typescript, web pack and grunt.  • Worked with AngularJS routers, forms, modules, DOM, events, expressions, controllers, filters and Http Request.  • Used Docker to virtualize deployment containers and push the code to EC2 cloud using PCF.  • Used Spring to develop RESTful web services that deliver JSON data required by AngularJS front end.  • Extensive Knowledge with Spring Core, Spring IOC, Spring Boot, Spring Data JPA, Spring AOP, Spring Security, Spring Transaction, Spring JDBC, Spring MVC, Spring Integration and Hibernate ORM.  • Had experience in developing several Microservices using Spring Boot, jersey, swagger to communicate through HTTP protocol for implementing SOA approach and Web services.  • Worked with Version Control Systems like CVS, SVN (Subversion), GIT, GitHub, Clear case.  • Skilled in using development tools such as Eclipse, Spring Tool Suite and Jet Brain IntelliJ.  • Sound knowledge in developing applications using three tier architecture frameworks such as MVC (Model View Controller) like Struts, Spring framework.  • Hands-on experience working with Continuous Integration (CI) build-automation tools such as Maven, Jenkins and Apache Ant  • Managing multiple AWS instances, and AMIs.  • End to end deployment ownership for projects on Amazon AWS.  • Advanced technical knowledge on QA industry tools - Selenium, Junit and SOAP UI.  • Solid experience in usage of Defect Management Tools like JIRA, Quality Center, TFS, HP ALM, Bugzilla.  • Create sketch, wireframe, prototype and visual mockups.  • Strong Knowledge on Application Development using Software Development Life Cycle SDLC using various methodologies like Waterfall, Agile.  • Conducted simultaneously queries and retrievals using Java multithreading techniques.  • Good communication and interpersonal skills and be able to work in a fast-paced environment. Work Experience Senior Java Developer Change Healthcare - Chicago, IL March 2018 to Present The Bulk Individual Fulfillment (BIF) system is an application that acts as a hub between Client systems and Fulfiller systems for bulk or individual orders. BIF is split into two systems. The first is the file-processing system, which is responsible for reading and writing order files, and in some cases for activating cards. The second system handles email sending and administration. Email sending system is responsible for automatically sending emails to Clients, Fulfillers, and the BIF support team (for errors). The administration system is a collection of web services used by the BIF Administration Console (and BIF Manager).    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Software Development Life Cycle phases like Requirement Analysis, Development, Unit/Integration Testing and estimating timelines for few requirements.  • Involved in making the POC with Spring integration of existing BIF application.  • Involved in converting the Mule based flows to spring integration flows.  • Build, Configure the Web sphere Commerce Server (WCS), DB2 Client, applying latest fix/feature packs FEP6, commerce instance creation, remote Http server setup, and common administrative tasks.  • Expertise in installation of WebSphere Application Server (Base/Network Deployment) on different Unix Platforms (AIX/Linux).  • Designed and developed various modules using Java, JSP/Servlets, XML, and MVC.  • Implemented Agile (Scrum) Methodology that includes daily scrum with team.  • Developed various components using Bounce framework which is customized Spring framework.  • Implemented J2EE standards, MVC architecture using Spring Framework.  • Developed the project using industry standard design patterns like Singleton, Business Delegate Factory Pattern for better maintenance of code and re-usability.  • Involved in implementation of Data Access, Service and Presentation Layers and intensively worked on Spring DAO Layer to access and perform CRUD operations on data.  • Used Soap UI for web services testing. Developed unit test cases using Junit framework for testing accuracy of code and logging with SLF4j and Log4j.  • Worked with NoSQL Databases like Mongo DB.  • Configured an AWS Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) and Database Subnet Group.  • Deployed and monitored scalable infrastructure on Amazon Web Services (AWS) & configuration management  • Created Puppet manifests, classes and modules to automate system operations.  • Automated deployment modules of IIS web applications, bindings and configuration settings using a combination of PowerShell scripts and Puppet.  • Created branches and managed the source code for various applications in GIT.  • Extensively worked on JSON for data transfer between different hardware components through HTTP request-response model.  • Extensively worked on XML binding (marshalling and unmarshalling) using JAX-BXML parser.  • Deployed applications on WebSphere Application server 8.0  • Designed various Services and factories by using AngularJS, Bootstrap and React components.  • Implemented various routing mechanisms in the webpage using AngularJS.  • Configured Data source using JNDI data pooling.  • Deployed the application in various environments and performed system integration testing ensuring thorough output.  • Extensively worked on Oracle SQL queries and PL/SQL stored procedures to perform CRUD operations in DAO layer.  • Responsible for building the application EAR, WAR and JAR files for different environments using ANT script. Written JUNIT test cases for performing unit testing.  • Resolving User Interface issues using various front-end technologies such as HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, Bootstrap, jQuery and AJAX.  • Responsible for code sanity in integration stream used Clear Case as version control tool.    Environment: Spring boot, Spring Integration, Spring Batch, XML, MVC, Spring framework, J2EE, Spring DAO, HTML CSS, Java Script, Angular JS, Bootstrap, jQuery, AJAX, NoSQL, AWS VPC, GIT, Json, XML, JNDI data pooling, Oracle SQL and ANT. Java Developer AARP - Washington, DC April 2017 to February 2018 AARP companies are leading providers of life insurance and retirement services around the world. Translate basic, low-risk solution designs into working code with direct oversight from team members. Perform unit and integration testing. Evaluate simple interrelationships between programs such as whether a change in one part of a program will cause an unwanted result in another part. Develop and document test cases, test data requirements and expected results. Assist with maintaining and updating documentation of project code and technical process following standards that are set by the team. Participate in technical walkthroughs and code reviews. Migrate basic, low-risk solutions into the production environment. Collaborate with analysts and IT teams to develop solutions that meet the requirements given by the business.    Responsibilities:  • Provided technical guidance to business analysts, gathered the requirements and converted them into technical specifications/artifacts.  • Configured Spring to manage objects and set their dependencies in a Spring context file and integrated middle tier with Spring application framework.  • Implemented the business layer by using Hibernate with Spring DAO and also developed mapping files and POJO java classes using ORM tool  • Implemented caching techniques, wrote POJO classes for storing data and DAO\'s to retrieve the data and did other database configurations using Hibernate  • Developed ORM mappings using Hibernate annotations and also established data integrity among all tables sitting on Oracle Database  • Designed and developed Customer registration and login screens using JSP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript  • Developed web pages to display the account transactions and details pertaining to that account using JSP, HTML, Spring MVC, AJAX and CSS  • Designed and implemented DAO, Singleton, Factory and DTO Design Patterns.  • Responsible for the configuration of Spring WebApplicaitonContext in web layer and web.xml.  • Developed SOAP-Web services in a Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) consisting of the integration tier with Web services external to organization, middle tier with Spring Application Framework.  • Configured handler mappings and view resolvers in Spring MVC Web layer.  • Followed Agile Methodology (TDD, SCRUM) to satisfy the customers and wrote JUnit test cases for unit testing the integration layer  • Developed various reusable Helper and Utility classes which are used across all the modules of the application  • Used log4j for tracking errors and debugging the code  • Wrote build & deployment scripts using Maven, shell scripts to build and deploy the application in JBoss Application Server  • Involved in implementing Branching Methodology Plan and performed Check-in/Check-out in Subversion.  • Developed various activities like transaction history, search products that enable users to understand the system efficiently  • Involved in unit testing using JUnit and system testing and also responsible for preparing test scripts for the system testing  Environment: Java, J2EE, Servlets, Spring MVC, Spring ORM, JSP, JDBC, JNDI, XML, HTML, Subversion, Eclipse, WSDL, JMS, AJAX, SOA, JBoss Application Server, JUnit, Sun Solaris and Oracle. UI Developer Cox Communications - Atlanta, GA December 2015 to March 2017 Cox Communications is an American privately-owned subsidiary of Cox Enterprise providing digital cable television, telecommunications and Home automation services in the United States. The aim of the project is to rebuild the existing E-commerce website to provide a better user experience as well as richer functionality. The tasks include redesigning and rebuilding of the existing page layouts, migration from the legacy website, and integration with new functionality as per the new business requirements. The new website is more attractive, efficient and interactive.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirements analysis, design and development of the project SAIL UI.  • Worked on using Object Oriented principles and developed the product using Java/J2EE technologies on SDLC and Agile Methodology.  • Responsible for creating sketch, wireframe, prototype and visual mockups.  • Worked on highly advanced user interface design and development using Angular 2, HTML and CSS.  • Involved in developing and migrating UI pages from Angular 1.5.8 to Angular 2 and calling the Rest API's from backend.  • Worked on Angular 2 concepts like building the Components and Data binding, Directives, Services and Dependency Injection, Routing and Observables, Pipes, Http and Optimization and Ng Modules.  • Communicating with external web services.  • Work together with development team to correct any UI problems or HTML/CSS related issues.  • Involved in installation, configuration, Deployment and management of web and enterprise applications on JBoss Application servers.  • Conducted usability tests, created user flows and wireframes, researched and documented usability standards.  • Implemented spring data with JPA.  • Developed Controller for request, response paradigm by spring Controllers using Spring MVC.  • Developed JSP for UI and Java classes for business logic.  • Responsible for creating and maintaining architecture for RESTful API using Spring Boot.  • Tasked with migrating all existing apps built in Angular 1.5 to version 2.  • Migrate all Angular 1.5 components to Angular JS 2.0 API over time.  • Used GIT as a code repository to check out project from it, make modifications, submit and commit changes to the local repository and then later to the central repository.  • Involved in designing User Interface (UI) applications and professional web applications using JavaScript, AngularJS 1.4, Bootstrap, jQuery, JSP, HTML5, DOM, XHTML, JSON and AJAX.  • Usage of Gradle build tool to facilitate simple approach towards application builds.    Environment: Core Java, J2EE, HTML5, CSS, Angular 2, DOM, XHTML, JSON, AJAX, JBoss, JPA, Spring MVC, JSP, RESTful Web service, GIT, Bootstrap, jQuery, JSP, Maven Java/J2EE Developer Caterpillar - Mossville, IL September 2014 to November 2015 Developed a web-based application used in assembly/machining operations of a shop floor. The software enables shop floor and associated personnel to record and analyze assembly/machining quality events that occur during the assembly process.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in designing use cases with the help of business analyst team and developed technical requirement documents.  • Helped the client project management team to identify the suitable technology and tools required for the projects.  • Developed Data Access Service layer using Spring and Hibernate for Analytical Data Center and Characteristics Data for reports.  • Involved in designing use cases with the help of business analyst team and developed technical requirement documents.  • Developed persistence layer by integrating Hibernate 3.2 ORM mappings with Spring Framework.  • Implemented Dependency Injection (IOC) and AOP using Spring Framework.  • Developed several REST web services supporting both XML and JSON to perform tasks. REST web services leveraged by both web and mobile applications. Prepared technical artifacts including UML Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams etc., using Rational Rose.  • Designed User Interface using Java Server Faces (JSF), HTML, CSS3, jQuery and XML in a responsive grid layout.  • Triaged QA tickets & provided support to troubleshoot issues during testing.  • Involved in production Support activity like working/analyzing production issues.  • Used Spring Framework for developing the application and used JDBC to map to Oracle database.  • Used AngularJS for the two-way databinding allowing auto synchronization of models and views.  • Use of SOAP UI to verify the WSDL endpoint URL.  • Implemented Microservices based Cloud Architecture using Spring Boot.  • Used Eclipse IDE for application Development. Used Jenkins Jobs for build automation to compile and generate EAR and WAR files.    Environment: Core Java, J2EE, JBoss Server, MVC, UNIX, Servlets, JSP, EJB, Hibernate 3.0, AJAX, XML, HTML, CSS 3, JSON, REST, SOAP UI, Spring 3, JavaScript, Oracle 10g/11i, jQuery, JUnit, AngularJS, Junit, Struts 1.2.8 Framework, JSF, Action Components, Tomcat Web Server. Full stack Developer I2U SYSTEMS June 2012 to August 2014 This Project aims to help the employees of HSBC GLT to refer candidates for open positions in the organization. Through this application admin can post new referral schemes for open positions in the organization and accordingly the employees can refer candidates and can get the benefit of cash rewards or gifts that are available under a referral scheme. This project also has various reports, which helps the admin to do a detailed analysis as per his criteria.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Designed and developed the UI using JSP, HTML4, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON  • Well experienced in Core Java - asynchronous programming, multithreading, collections and a few design patterns.  • Designed mock-up using HTML in Web logic environment.  • Working knowledge of developing and supporting ASP/ASP.NET, C# .NET, JavaScript and AJAX applications.  • Designed REST APIs that allow sophisticated, effective and low-cost application integration.  • Designed and documented REST/HTTP APIs, including JSON data formats and API versioning strategy.  • Developed SCM by using the JSP/HTML like one form for each functionality user interface, standard validations using JavaScript, Servlets used as the controllers for the business logic and business logic using JDBC, XML parsing techniques etc. using MVC and Programmed database using XML language.    Environment: Core Java, HTML4, CSS, JavaScript, XML, AJAX, JSON, JSP, Servlets, REST Web Service Education Bachelor's in COMPUTER SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING in COMPUTER SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Hyderabad - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jax, Jboss, jquery, Jsf, Jsp, Servlets, Struts, Ms visual studio, Visual studio, C++, Git, Gradle, Javascript, Jenkins, Scripting, Java J2Ee Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages Java, C, C++, PL/SQL.  J2EE Technologies Servlets 3.0, JSP 2.0, JSF, JDBC 4.0.  Frameworks Spring 2.5/3.0/4, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Hibernate 2.5/3.0/4.1, Struts 2.3  Scripting JavaScript (ECMAScript versions 1.5, ES6 and up), jQuery, AngularJS 1.5.8, Angular 2, Angular 4, PHP4.  Databases SQL Server, PL/SQL, MS SQL server 2008/ R2/2012, Oracle 10g.  IDE MS Visual Studio, Eclipse, Sublime, IntelliJ, STS.  Web Services SOAP JAX - WS, RESTful, JAX - RS  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, DHTML, XSLT, XML.  Continuous Integration Tool Jenkins.  Versioning Tools GIT, TFS, SVN  Application Servers WebLogic 10gR3/11gR3, WebSphere 7.0/8, JBoss 7  Build Tools Apache Maven, ANT, Gradle  Web Servers Tomcat 6.0/7.0  Operating Systems Unix, Linux, Windows, Mac OS X, Solaris  Methodologies Agile (Scrum), Waterfall