Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer Foster City, CA • Over 6 years of IT experience in Design, Development, Support and Implementation of Web based applications using JAVA/J2EE/GROOVY GRAILS Technologies (Core Java, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, XML, Spring, JUNIT, Hibernate, and Restful API).  • Development experience with Java such as OOPS Concepts, Strings, IO, Multithreading, Collections and Exception Handling.  • Very Good Experience with Servlets and JSP.  • Experience in spring frameworks like spring web flow, ORM, spring core, Spring AOP.  • Extensive knowledge in Spring Web MVC framework for the applying MVC Implementation to the web application.  • Good knowledge of spring's IOC, AOP, Spring MVC and spring's integration with Hibernate technologies.  • Diverse experience utilizing Java tools in business, Web, and client-server environments including Java Platform, Enterprise Edition ( Java EE), Enterprise Java Bean (EJB).  • Hands on experience in Struts, SOA Web Services Architecture and Development.  • Experience with web API lifecycle.  • Struts (MVC) is used for implementation of business model logic.  • Used HQL and SQL as the query languages in Hibernate Mapping and Integrated Spring and Hibernate framework.  • Created SQL, PL/SQL statements for the effective retrieval and storage of data from the database.  • Good knowledge at SOAP/WSDL and REST FUL interfaces in java. Created and executed both load and functional tests for web services.  • Expert level skills in developing web-based GUI s using HTML, DHTML, XML, CSS, and Java Script for web enabled applications and D3 Data-Driven Documents for producing dynamic, interactive data visualizations in web browsers.  • Deep knowledge of AngularJS practices and commonly used modules based on extensive work experience.  • Development of a well responsive SPA (single page application) using AngularJS framework in conjunction with HTML5, CSS3 standards, with front-end UI team.  • Implemented AngularJS Validation to validate user inputs and to create user-friendly web application.  • Used Angular Two Way Data Binding to achieve the feedback functionality from the user.  • In-depth knowledge of Apache Subversion (SVN) and Jenkins Continuous Integration Server-Installation, Configuration, Design and Administration and integrating these tools with other systems.  • Responsible for the analysis, documenting the requirements and architecting the application based on J2EE standards. Followed Test-Driven Development (TDD) and participated in scrum status reports.  • Designed and developed the application using Agile methodology and followed TDD, Scrum, pair programming.  • Used JIRA to test and track the Issues and Bugs related to software or Application.  • Exposed with different web application servers like Tomcat Apache Server, IBM WebSphere server, BEA Web Logic Server, JBOSS Application server.  • Very good knowledge on IBM Web Sphere Commerce.  • Worked with IBM Commerce team, Business Analysts and Managers and resolved key issues.  • Experience with Agile / Scrum and Waterfall Methodologies.  • Exceptional skills in Agile Development and Test Driven Development (TTD).  • Involved in resolving Production Support tickets.  • Assisted in responding to emergency support calls and submitting a weekly log to management and in developing network integration policies.  • Part of a response team that worked on support issues throughout the company.  • Responsible for compiling and submitting an error report for management each week.  • Expert knowledge of data structures, computer logic and flow-charting, program design methods and techniques, database vendor versions, compiler versions  • Excellent critical and creative problem solving ability and analytical thinking with quick learning, interpersonal and client interfacing skills.  • Assisted project manager in defining project scope, time & effort estimates and deliverable management. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Visa Inc - Foster City, CA July 2016 to Present Description: The Risk and Authentication development group is responsible for designing, developing and implementing applications that provide Visa client authentication solutions and products which detect, prevent, and mitigate fraud for Visa and Visa client payment systems. The ECIP Token Project is an extension of Visa Risk Management (VRM) system to detect and deter fraudulent transactions applied to Visa's next generation cloud based payments like VisaCheckout, ApplePay, and AndroidPay etc. As part of VRM, all web based payments and e-commerce transactions supported by Visa are authorized and authenticated based on certain Rules & acceptance criterion defined by Visa's clients who include major banks, financial institutions, companies, and vendors.    Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile Methodologies - SCRUM to manage full life-cycle development of the project.  • Developed software code that complies with design specification and code software solutions to meet development and support deliverables.  • Participated in the design and development of new programs and subprograms, as well as enhancements, modifications, and corrections to existing software.  • Experienced with object-oriented design and development of enterprise-class web applications.  • Java programming with Multi-threading and performance tuning experience.  • Involved in web services design and development. Created and consumed web services using JSON, XML, and REST.  • Developed end to end data flow between backend and UI using JMS, IBM MQ series and RESTful web services.  • Programming in UNIX environments Linux  • Demonstrated experience with 3-tier web application development utilizing Java, Spring, Hibernate.  • Integrated data from automated backend Hadoop job with the application over a config-driven transfer server.  • Solved complex software development/design issues by implementing SOA architecture.  • Involved in process orientation and planning, organizational and problem solving session.  • Involved in configuration and deployment of applications on the cloud using AWS.  • Used AWS Code deploy for automated deployment of EC2 instances.  • Involved in Coding of Enterprise Java Beans, which implements business rules, and business logic.  • Used Junit for unit testing & Jenkins for automated build and deploy process.  • Used Maven for application build.    Environment: J2EE, Spring 4.x, Hibernate, JSON, Angular.js, Unix, Maven, JUnit, Jenkins, REST,  WebServices, JMS, IBM MQ series, IBM WebSphere, GIT, AWS, IBM RAD 9.1, DB2, HTML, CSS and Java  Script. Java/J2EE Developer AT&T - Dallas, TX January 2015 to June 2016 Description: AT&T Inc. is an American multinational telecommunications conglomerate, headquartered at Whit acre Tower in downtown Dallas, Texas. AT&T is the second largest provider of mobile telephone services and the largest provider of fixed telephone services in the United States, and also provides broadband subscription television services through DirecTV    Responsibilities:  • Exposed to Software Development Life Cycle (Scrum) with JIRA Agile following Agile methodology.  • Used HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap for layout design, navigation, animation buttons and icons and developed the application as Responsive Web Application using CSS media queries and Bootstrap.  • Developed the application as Single Page Application which can switch to different components using Angular JS; also worked on Angular JS controllers and created functions factory to interact with the RESTful Services using AJAX services like $http and $resource.  • Enhanced an existing Angular JS application to follow MVC patterns for improving source code maintenance which results in significant percentage of code reduction, ease of upgrade and scalability.  • Developed Custom Directives using Angular JS for Data Grid and Pagination & created Custom factories and Services using Angular for refactoring Code reuse.  • Created Angular JS custom filters to sort data from table and utilized some core angular js filters in our application.  • Functionality is implemented by developing RESTful web services using spring boot, JPA, Cloud foundry and Oracle Responsibilities.  • Designed and created some reporting charts such as bar & pie charts using jQuery fusion charts.  • Implemented Spring MVC framework in the application. Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in spring framework using Dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IOC).  • Configured Hibernate-ORM to map java objects such as clients and claims with database tables  • Involved in up gradation and maintenance of company's website to the new layout using the Grid orientation model Bootstrap framework.  • Used Bootstrap to create drop-down menus, forms and modal effects for styling the webpage such as creating a modal effect to display a form which is needed to be filled in order to modify user's information.  • Manipulated data using CRUD (Create, Read, Update and Delete) operations of MongoDB data base management system and handled database access and data transmission based on RESTful web service.  • Developed Object-Relational (O/R) mapping using Hibernate 4 to create high performance persistence layer to interact with various databases using Hibernate Query Language, Criteria API and Native SQL queries.  • Created Java Mail API is used to send notifications about important updates such as claim status change.  • Created Tables, Stored Procedures, User Defined Functions, Views and Triggers for different data operation on the database using SQL server using Java.  • Involved in sprint planning, code review, and daily standup meetings to discuss the progress of the application.  • Improvised the performance of web pages by performing minification on CSS and JavaScript assets which were configured through Grunt.  • Used GitHub for version control and Karma& configured Maven for dependencies and Log4J for logging.    Environment: Core Java/J2EE, Servlets, JSP, Java Spring, JSTL, EJB, JMS, XML, XSLT, JDBC, AJAX, IBM  Web Sphere Application Server 7.0, Oracle 10g, Angular JS, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Eclipse, UML, Rational  Rose, Windows XP, CVS. Java Developer Concur Technologies October 2013 to December 2014 Description: Concur technologies holds expertise in developing applications that allow large  organizations to manage their employee's travels and associated expense. It also avails the risk  messaging systems to keep traveler alert about various activities going at his visiting location.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on designing a web page to provide config access using React and Redux frame work.  • Implemented New Relic based analytics system.  • Used Log-Stash and Elastic search for application logging and error monitoring.  • Created MicroService using Spring boot.  • Added enhancements to the application by using Spring framework and Hibernate ORM  support.  • Worked in large teams with agile methodology to add new features to the application.  • Designed new front web pages with implementation of JSF framework and faces Utils.  • Worked on normalizing MS SQL server database and data entries.  • Developed new REST and SOAP based web services.  • Performed release jobs via Jenkins to promote the code to various environments and servers.  • Generated Junit test cases to test the integrity and functionality of the code.  • Volunteered other teams to move and upgrade the old code base from progress to java coding standards.  • Collaborated with international teams to maintain follow the standards as per respective laws..  • Implemented SMS notification service provided by Upside Wireless.  • Set up Java Message Service using tomcat active MQ libraries.  • Implemented spring quartz based thread module to be executed in fixed time interval scene.  • Added app based notification service to provide notification to android apps.  • Used Enterprise Java beans paradigm to avail the functionality of java bean modules.    Environment: Java 1.7, Spring 3.2, JSF, HTML, CSS, Apache tomcat, Spring IoC, Spring batch, Maven,  Caching, SOAP Web-service, Windows, MS SQL, Oracle 11g, NetBeans, Fortify analysis tool. Java Developer Computer Power Group - Hyd September 2011 to August 2013 Description: Portfolio analyzer intimating System is a new development Project for the users to monitor  Client's Portfolio and sets respective alerts on their portfolios. These alerts triggered when the portfolios do not meet the respective targets outlined by the users for their respective client applications. The Client applications are operated from remote locations. To implement this functionalities web services SOAP is used to hit the endpoints of the applications. Spring is used to implement the feasible betterment of fine-grained approach in the application.    Responsibilities:  • As a Developer in Java, involved in System Requirements analysis and conceptual design.  • Experience in using VSS as source control.  • Developed the application using User interface using Struts, Html and JavaScript, CSS.  • Experience in using JSON, JavaScript functions to get dynamic data and client side validation.  • Experience in handling designed, Developed and Implemented document transformation applications using XML Spy tool and XSD's.  • Experience in developing JDBC to interact with the database  • Involved in developing applications for workflow using JSP's, spring MVC module, Hibernate, AJAX, JavaScript technologies using Apache Tomcat and integrated it with the actual system to improve the quality of the existing system.  • Experience in initiating with 'Workflow module' of the Project which is a product intended to automate the workflow related functions of any organization.  • Experience in designing full life cycle development of web applications and modification of existing applications to incorporate new components and features emphasizing maintainability, reliability, scalability and performance.    Environment: Java, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, Spring, Ajax, Hibernate, Java JDK 1.6, Apache Tomcat 6.0, MySQL  Query Browser, Windows XP Professional. Education Bachelor's Skills EJB (3 years), Java (5 years), JMS (3 years), web services (5 years), XML (4 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Languages: Java1.8,1.7,1.6, PL/SQL, C, XML 1.0, XSL 2.0  Java/J2EE Technologies: JDBC, Servlets, JSP 1.2/2.0, JMS, EJB 2.0/3.0  Web Development: HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, CSS3, Java Script, AJAX  Frameworks: Struts 1.x/2.x, hibernate 3.x, Spring 2.5/3.1  XML/Web Services: XML, XSD, WSDL, SOAP, Apache Axis, DOM, SAX, JAXP, JAXB, XML Beans  Messaging Technologies: JMS  Application/Web Servers: BEA Web Logic 9.1/11g, Apache Tomcat 5.x/6.x, JBOSS 4.x/3.x  Methodologies/Design Patterns: OOAD, OOP, UML, MVC2, DAO, Factory pattern, Session Facade  Databases: Oracle 8i/9i/10g, SQL Server 2000/2005, IBM DB2  IDEs: Eclipse, RAD, WSAD  Build Automation: Ant, Maven  Testing/Logging Frameworks: JUnit, Log4J  Reporting Tools: Crystal Reports 11  Tools: Rational Rose, Microsoft Visio, XML Spy, TOAD  Operating Systems: Windows 98/2000/NT/XP, OSX, Sun Solaris, HP-UX.