Sr. Full Stack Java Developer Sr. Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Full Stack Java Developer Edison, NJ • 9+ years of professional experience in software design and development with a strong Java, J2EE back ground and UI Development.  • Experience of enterprise level application development with Java centric technologies in the domain of Banking and Insurance.  • Extensive experience working in a Test-Driven Development and Agile-Scrum Development.  • Experience in working in both Windows and UNIX platforms including programming and debugging skills in UNIX Shell Scripting.  • Good working knowledge of J2EE best practice toolsets such as Ant, Maven, Log4j, Slf4j.  • Employing Java Object/Relational bridge technologies such as Hibernate, JPA, and spring.  • Developed applications using frameworks and API like Struts, Spring MVC.  • JAVA/J2EE development experience in server side and client side programming.  • Extensive experience in Java/J2EE programming - JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JMS.  • Experience in Multithreading.  • Experienced in Web Services approach for Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  • Experienced in web development using HTML, DHTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, DOJO, Angular JS, Angular 4 and AJAX technologies.  • Developed applications based on Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture using core design patterns (creational, structural, behavioral) and J2EE design patterns (Data Access Object, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Session Façade etc.).  • Sound working knowledge of performance tuning in JAVA and J2EE including hibernate tuning  • Experience in using various Configuration Management tools like CVS, GIT and SVN.  • Experience in using ANT tool, Maven to compile, package and deploy the components to the Application Servers.  • Extensive experience with Amazon Web Services (AWS), Open stack, Docker Puppet, Chef, Ansible, AWS Cloud Formation, AWS Cloud Front and Experience in using containers like Docker and familiar with Jenkins.  • Experience in Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF) and the implementation of micro services in PCF.  • Strong experience in XML related technologies including XSD, DTD, XSLT, XPATH, DOM, SAX, JAXP, JAXB, XML-RPC and XML Beans.  • Expertise in developing and consuming Web services including different technologies and standards like DTD, XSD, SOAP, WSDL, JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, WS-I and Apache Axis, JAX-RPC.  • PCF VALET using Grafana and Extrahop  • Good knowledge in Restful Web Services.  • Good Knowledge of using IDE Tools like Eclipse, NetBeans, JBuilder, Rational Application Developer(RAD) for Java/J2EE application development.  • Experience in configuring MQ-Series and experience in developing messaging systems using JMS.  • Experience in installing, configuring, tuning IBM Web Sphere 6.x/5.x, Apache Tomcat 5.x/6.x, JBOSS 5.x/4.x.  • Developed API for using AWS Lambda to manage the servers and run the code in the AWS.  • Proficiency in working with databases like Oracle, MySQL.  • Expertise in database modeling and development using SQL, T-SQL and PL/SQL in Oracle and SQL Server environments.  • Experience in Unit testing using JUnit, Selenium.  • Experienced in using Operating Systems like Windows XP/7/8, AIX, and Sun Solaris.  • In-depth knowledge of PL/SQL with the experience in constructing the triggers, tables, functions, user defined data type, procedures etc.  • Exposure to Oracle, DB2, and MySQL databases in developing applications using SQL Scripts, Stored Procedures.  • Experience using an Integrated Development Environment like Eclipse, RAD 7.5/8.5 for code development.  • Extensive experience on support tools like Application Life Cycle Management to perform Unit testing and Application integration testing.  • Experience of configuration tool CVS, Clear Case and Tortoise SVN developing on Linux, Windows Operating Systems.  • Extensive experience in developing Web Services applications using REST Client, REST API, SOAP UI, dozer mapper.  • Experience with web development technologies like HTML, CSS,JQuery, AngularJS, JavaScript, JSP and JSON. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Full Stack Java Developer Diaspark Inc - Edison, NJ September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile Software Development Methodology in the progress of the project.  • Involved in design of Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Event Diagrams as part of Documentation.  • Used SAAS as a software distribution model through which apps are available to the customers.  • Designed and developed the application to be responsive for desktop, mobile and tablets using Twitter Bootstrap (HTML5, CSS, and JavaScript).  • Developing the web site for online trading using E-Commerce such as Electronic Data Exchange.  • Extensively used Web Storm for development in the front end and used Subversion as version control system and Tortoise client for SVN.  • Developing application design guidance and consultation, utilizing a thorough understanding of applicable technology, tools and existing designs.  • Used AngularJS and Handlebars.js framework where data from backend is stored in model and populated it to UI.  • Deployed application using Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF) CLI. Used Pivotal Cloud Foundry, the connection/service binding details are injected from the deployed cloud platform itself.  • Created AngularJS Controller which Isolate scopes perform operations in UI.  • Using AngularJS created custom directives for data manipulations and to display data in company standard format in UI.  • Wrote Cloud Formation templates and deployed AWS resources using it.  • Converted the pages from XMI (XML Metadata Interchange) to AngularJS and in this process had to deal with converting the XMI request and response in the front end to JSON ( Java Script Object Notation).  • Wrote the controller in Spring MVC which delegates the request from front end to the delegator layer and to make calls with backend systems  • Ran the standalone front end application in Grunt Server. Used Google Chrome for debugging the application.  • Conducted Code Reviews  • Used various AWS services like EC2, VPC, Auto Scaling, RDS, ELB, Route 53 to create highly available and scalable infrastructure in AWS environment.  • Managed source control and version control using SVN  • Project status tracking using JIRA  • Integration room responsibilities.  • Experienced in problem analysis in both technical system and application programs.  • Essentially involved in all phases of SDLC to structure the unformatted requirements.  • Designed the ER diagrams and structured data in the database with enforcing normalization for a consistent output.  • Used advanced level of HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3 and pure CSS layouts (table less layout).  • Defined and developed the application's presentation layer using HTML5, CSS3, JSP, JavaScript and Backbone.JS with Dust.JS templating.  • Developed client's interface in PHP in MVC modelling using code igniter framework.    Environment: Windows XP, XML, Spring, HTML, Hibernate, EJB, JSP,JPA, JDBC2.0, Java Script, Angular 4, Eclipse, JSON, JQuery, Rest Web services, Tomcat Server, SQL server, AWS,TOAD , Java Junit, Jenkins, Xpath, TestNG, QC, GIT, Putty, Angular 4, Windows XP, Oracle 11g PL/SQL Developer, UNIX ,PCF Sr. Java Developer Doylestown, PA April 2016 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  • Entire Lifecycle for a CRM project.  • As Technical Lead/ Architect involved in all facets of development life cycle  • Applied agile methodology for design/ development, Prepared project plan and test plans  • Developed REST webservices to expose the Middleware services.  • Designed and developed the gateway framework with caching features.  • Applied design patterns such as delegator, singleton and other J2EE patterns  • Architecture solution, Requirement gathering, Estimation and Prepare the Technical Design and Architecture document. Co-ordinate technically between Business user and Technical team. Estimate the effort and provide end-user training.  • Good knowledge in Spring Micro services , IBM Bluemix Platform , PCF , Cloud Foundry and also Private Cloud setup with IBM ODM /BPM on pureapp Power 8 Servers and deploying with patterns.  • Created read replicas of AWS-RDS-Nosql Mongo DB in various regions and AZs using backups and snapshots and scale out AWS-RDS-Nosql Mongo instance to additional AZs and regions based on requirements using DB snapshots  • Create storyboards and wireframes for front end.  • Architect Java skeleton code.  • Formulated technical strategy with various functional areas across application  • Developed and coded for Logging, Exception.  • Implemented persistence to database using the hibernate ORM.  • Developed front end pages using HTML/CSS/JS.  • Using Angular 4 for front end development.  • Implemented Spring MVC.  • Implemented Thread Based Multi-Taskingconcept.  • Created deployment models for Cloud Foundry, explaining the underlying VM, Container, and application layout across multiple PCF foundations spread across the globe  • Review team work products/deliverable(s) for quality  • Using JIRA for project Management and previously used Tiaga.io.  • Provide a technical solution to the team If there is any technical issue  • Coordinating for Performance test  • Design and use of REST full web services.  • Created S3 buckets and managing policies for S3 buckets and Utilized S3 bucket and Glacier for storage and backup on AWS.  • Using Jenkins for continuous integration for testing and deploying code into production.  • Developed and executed test strategy and coordinated QA testing in Agile Environment.  • Supported solution designing activities and automated test scripts  • Worked on writing test plans, test cases for various major and minor projects and skillfully executing them.  • Writing Test Data and Test cases for the new features.  • Enhanced test plan with new test cases at regular intervals of time.  • Developed automation framework for web application testing.  • Performing Regression and Functional, testing in QA,Stage and Production environments.  • Tested the response format of REST services in XML, and JSON.  • Used various drivers specific to each browser to write scripts for testing across various browsers.  • Responsible for UAT project planning like creating testing scenario, test plans, and test scripts  • Defined the Scope of testing for User Acceptance Testing.    Environment: Java 1.7, Web storm, AngularJS 1.3, Ext JS, HTML5, CSS3,AWS, JSON, JavaScript, XMI, Maven 2, Eclipse Kepler, Eclipse Juno, XML, Silk SVN, Tortoise SVN, PCF, SQL Developer, Spring MVC, Oracle DB, Grunt, Jasmine. Full Stack Java Developer Diaspark Inc - Edison, NJ September 2015 to March 2016 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for designing and developing all the GUI screens using Java Swing.  • Designed and developed Calendar Object for the application using Java Swing.  • Servlets used as the controllers for the business logic and business logic using JDBC, XML parsing techniques etc.  • Added Planned Start date, Planned End Date features using Java Swing.  • Added Scaling Duration and calling hour's features using Java Swing.  • Used RAD IDE for developing GUI.  • Responsible for maintaining technical and functional documentation  • Involved in implementation of enterprise integration with Web Services and Legacy Systems using SOAP and REST (Using Axis and Jersey frameworks).  • Generated DAO's to map with database tables using Hibernate. Used HQL (Hibernate Query Language) and Criteria for database querying and retrieval of results.  • Uses Second Level Cache to enhance performance and Proper Memory Management  • Involved in J2EE Design Patterns such as Data Transfer Object (DTO), DAO, Value Object and Template.  • Used Spring IOC, AOP modules to integrate with the application.  • Developed SQL Queries for performing CRUD operations in Oracle for the application.  • Used Maven for generating system builds and Bamboo for continuous integration.  • Used LOG4J, JUnit for debugging, testing and maintaining the system state.  • Wrote JUNIT Test cases for Spring Controllers and Web Service Clients in Service Layer using Mockito.  • Designed and developed the application using AGILE-SCRUM methodology.  • Developed presentation layer using JavaScript, HTML and CSS.  • Enhancing the product with new features as per client requirements.  • Developed custom web forms a JavaScript.  • Implemented feedback form.  • Used simple XML to build/process xml documents.  • Worked with the design of the templates and skins in CSS.  • Upload the code and do necessary changes and test the application in server, if needed then fix the bugs and test again.    Environment: Java/J2EE, Core Java, Jdk1.6, Spring, Hibernate, Webservices, JAXRS, Mockito, WADL, SOAPUI, JSP, JDBC, JQuery, AJAX, Html, CSS, AngularJS, Maven, log4j, Oracle, MY SQL, PL/SQL, SQL Developer, JIRA, JMS, APACHE AXIS, Source Tree, IntelliJ, GIT, UNIX, AGILE-SCRUM. Full Stack Java Developer Genuent, LLC - Houston, TX June 2012 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the architecture team for design and implementation of system.  • Working in a team of 10 members and involved in architecture, requirements gathering, analysis, detailed design, preparing class diagram, flow diagram etc.  • Developed Web Services using XML messages that use SOAP. Developed Web Services for Payment Transaction and Payment Release.  • Created WSDL and the SOAP envelope  • Generated Model layer of MVC using EJB  • Developed application using Spring MVC and AJAX on the presentation layer, the business layer is built using spring and the persistent layer uses Hibernate.  • Wrote huge JavaScript to do client side validation like login, address, email, Tel No. validation.  • Improved performance for interactive components through use of AJAX.  • Developed Custom Tags to represent data in a desired unique table format and to implement paging logic.  • Developed views and controllers for client and manager modules using Spring MVC and Spring Core.  • Used Spring Security for securing the web tier Access.  • Business logic is implemented using Hibernate.  • Developed and modified database objects as per the requirements.  • Involved in Unit integration, bug fixing, acceptance testing with test cases, Code reviews.  • Interaction with customers and identified System Requirements and developed Software Requirement Specifications.  • Implemented Java design patterns wherever required.  • Involved in development, maintenance, implementation and support of the System.  • Involved in initial project setup and guidelines.  • Implemented Multi-threading concepts.  • Developed the application using Core Java, J2EE and JSP's.  • Installation and deploying in Tomcat server  • Different types of testing viz Unit, System, Integration testing etc. is carried out during the testing phase.    Environment: Java/ J2EE, JSP, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, Hibernate, Spring, XML, EJB, Web Services, SOAP, Eclipse, Rational Rose, HTML, XPATH, XSLT, DOM and JDBC. Java Developer Reston, VA January 2010 to May 2012 Responsibilities:  • Developed multiple user tools with core Java and DB2 using eclipse IDE.  • Implemented multiple design patterns like factory, façade, etc.  • Extensive code reviews on adherence to design and performance.  • Extensive real time production support.  • Wrote HQL queries as part of development.  • Designed and implemented XML parsing for XML order conformations.  • Created database pool, multi-pool, data source and mapped them to roles.  • Used spring for creating the object using dependency injection (IOC).  • Developed the web-services and analysis of SOAP envelope using SOAP UI.  • Created Rest web services using Hibernate framework.  • Configured action mapping (in XML) for each logical request that may be submitted.  • Seed Hibernate as Object Relational (OR) Mapping Tool for the backend data.  • Have used DOJO toolkit to construct Ajax requests and build dynamic web pages using JSP, HTML and JavaScript.  • Wrote batch jobs and was involved in performance tuning of complex queries.  • Monitored the error logs and fixed the problems.  • Developed the different components of the application such as JSP, Servlets, DAO and Used Sub Version (SVN) for version control.  • Developed additional UI Components and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX (JQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience.  • Built ANT scripts for automated deployment and for the build operation of the entire application.  • Developed web pages using HTML/CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed many JSP pages, used Dojo in JavaScript Library, jQuery UI for client side validation.    Environment: Core Java, SQL (DB2), Design Patterns, Spring, OOPS/OOAD (UML), XML, Hibernate, DOJO 1.5, Eclipse IDE, Tortoise SVN source control, Bugzilla,Autosys, Aqua Studio, Cygwin. Education Bachelor's Bachelor's Skills Css (9 years), database (9 years), Html (9 years), Java (9 years), Javascript (9 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Java/J2EE (JSP, Servlets, JSTL, and other java related technologies.)  Scripting jQuery, JavaScript, Shell Script,Node.Js,React.Js  Frameworks Spring (MVC, AOP, ORM, Web Service, DAO, Social, Security, etc.), Hibernate, Bootstrap, Struts, Tiles, DWR (Direct Web Remoting)  IDE Eclipse, IntelliJ, NetBeans, IBM Rational Application Developer (RAD)  Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS, SSL, XML, AJAX, Web Services, REST  Web Servers JBoss, Weblogic, WebSphere, Tomcat, Jetty, Apache  Databases Oracle, MySQL, MSSQL Server, Sybase, PostgreSQL  Database Tools SQL Developer, DB Artisan, TOAD, MSSQL Server Management Studio  Reporting Tools Jasper Reports, BIRT, Crystal Reports  Build Tools Gradle, Maven, ANT  Other Tools JIRA, Confluence, Bamboo, Sonar, Fisheye, Taiga.io  Version Control Git, SVN,PCF,AWS, CVS, VSS(Visual Source Safe)  Operating Systems Windows (XP, 7, 8/8.1, 10), Linux, Unix