Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer Dallas, TX ? About 8+ years of experience in analysis, design, development and testing of Web/Enterprise based applications & extensive relational database-based applications.  ? Extensive experience in design and development of J2EE applications using Core Java, Java collections framework, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, XML, XSLT, Java Beans, Struts Framework, Spring Framework, IBM Activiti 2.0.  ? Expertise in various open source frameworks like Struts2.0/1.2, Spring4.0 MVC, Spring Batch, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring Integration, Spring Boot, Spring Data JPA, JSF1.2, IBM Activiti 2.0 and ORM Technology like Hibernate 3.0/4.0, Spring JDBC.  ? Experience with multiple web and application Servers like Apache Tomcat, IBM Web Sphere, Oracle Web Logic, Glass fish and JBoss.  ? Experience working with standard JAVA Design Patterns (MVC, Singleton, Session Facade, DAO Factory, Business Delegate, Value Object, Front Controller).  ? Strong experience in developing the client or server-based applications using Oracle Relational Database Management System, Heidi SQL.  ? Expertise in Client-Server application development using Oracle 12g/11g/10g, SQL PLUS, TOAD, SQL Developer and SQL*LOADER, Heidi SQL.  ? Experience in developing Web Applications using technologies like React, HTML 5.0, JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap JS, CSS, XML, JSON, XSL/XSLT and AJAX.  ? Extensive development experience on different IDE's like Eclipse, Intellij, NetBeans and RAD.  ? Experience in developing Micro Services using Spring Boot and deploying in AWS Cloud.  ? Good understanding and hands on experience in writing Power Shell scripts.  ? Good understanding on AWS Cloud infrastructure like VPC, EC2, S3, ECS, IAM services.  ? Experience in implementing SOA using J2EE Web Services, Axis2, WSDL, SOAP, REST Web services.  ? Hands on experience in UML Modeling, Rational Rose.  ? Extensive experience in implementation of the version control software SVN, CVS, Git, IBM Rational Tools (RTC, RRC), Mercurial.  ? Experience in various agile methodologies like Test Driven Development, SCRUM, Waterfall and Pair Programming.  ? Experience in developing Unit Test Cases using JUnit tool, Mockito.  ? Involved in Integration testing and User Acceptance testing extensively.  ? Involved in Performance Tuning for the entire application using OEM tool.  ? Used continuous integration tools like Quick Build, Jenkins, and RTC.  ? Good knowledge on Document repositories like EDM, Mobius and IBM FileNet.  ? Worked on tools like Siebel, JMT, WINSCP, LOTUS NOTES, and JENKINS.  ? Experience in working with HOSPITALITY, FINANCIAL, STATE GOVERNMENT (HEALTH /WEALTH) domains.  ? Team Player, quick learner and self-starter with effective communication, motivation and organizational skills combined with attention to details and business process improvements.  ? Proven ability to analyze problems, root causes and develop innovative solutions to business challenges and streamlining operations. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer Business Travel Services - Dallas, TX July 2018 to Present Tools/Technologies Java 1.8/J2EE, Spring Framework4.0 (Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring Data JPA), Heidi SQL, MQ, Swagger, Jenkins, Git.    Description: PMS-V4(Property Management System-Version4) application is a migration project from PMSV3 for better performance, maintenance and scalability. The application is used at the hotel's front desk to create a reservation, check-in the guests, check-out the guests. It is also used for housekeeping purpose and various room services like wakeup calls through the phone or PBX machine which is a third-party interface.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Analysis, Design and Implementation of Business User requirements.  ? Setting up the Developer's workstation on own with provided manual.  ? Agile methodology has been followed. Experience with Sprint Planning, grooming, Stand-ups, Retrospective and Sprint Review meetings.  ? Rally software has been used to manage the application.  ? Service layer was implemented using Java8 and IOC Framework.  ? Persistence layer was developed using Spring Data JPA to fetch or insert data.  ? Involved in developing the Client Communications Platform UI using React.  ? Used Heidi SQL as the Database Management system.  ? Used SQL to communicate with HeidiSQL database.  ? Used Version Control tools like GIT for maintaining code repository.  ? Used SonarQube for continuous inspection of code quality.  ? Used Intellij IDE to develop the code and see the code coverage of the java classes.  ? Used Maven for project management and build automation and Continuous Integration is done using Jenkins.  ? Jenkins is configured to place the war built on S3 bucket which can be used to deploy on cloud.  ? Developed Micro Services to provide the interface to the various clients running on both Java and Non- Java applications.  ? Tested the micro services functionality using Swagger by passing Test Data.  ? Experience in using Splunk software to view, analyze and search the data from application logs.  ? Tested the developed components using JUnit4.0 and Mockito frameworks.  ? Performed Unit test and integration testing in Dev and Test environments before pushing the build to QA environments.  ? Used IBM Activiti 2.0 BPMN tool in the BTS application.  ? Experience in coordinating with the offshore team. Java Developer TIAA - Charlotte, NC June 2017 to June 2018 Tools/Technologies  Java 1.7/J2EE, Spring Framework4.0 (Spring Integration, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring JDBC,Spring Batch), SOAP Web Services, REST Ful, FTL, SQL Developer, Oracle 12g, JS, AJAX, Eclipse IDE, Oracle Web Logic server, Gradle, Jenkins, Active MQ, SOAP UI, Apache ActiveMQ 5.13, HTML5, CSS3, JSON, XML, AngularJS.    Description: Client Communications Platform (CCP) is a migration project from Document Composition Service (DCS) for the better maintenance, performance and track the status of the communication even after it's sent out of CCP. CCP receives the request from source systems through File Share, MQFTE or Web service. It also supports the communication through various delivery channels like Standard print, Email or SMS.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Analysis, Design and Implementation of Business User requirements.  ? Setting up the Developer's workstation on own with provided manual.  ? Agile methodology has been followed. Experience with Sprint Planning, grooming, Stand-ups, Retrospective and Sprint Review meetings.  ? Service layer was implemented using Spring Integration and IOC Framework.  ? Developed Batch processing jobs using Spring Batch Framework.  ? Persistence layer was developed using Spring JDBC to fetch or insert data.  ? Implemented Expanded Logging of Exceptions through Spring Integration.  ? Involved in developing the Client Communications Platform UI using HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, AJAX.  ? Used SQL Developer as the Database Management system to interact with Oracle database.  ? Used SQL, PL/SQL to communicate with oracle database.  ? Used IBM Rational Tools like RTC as Version Control tool.  ? Used SonarQube for continuous inspection of code quality.  ? Used EclEmma tool to see the code coverage of the java classes.  ? Used Gradle tool for building the project and Jenkins for continuous integration and deploying the application on Web logic Application Server.  ? Developed SOAP & REST Web Services to provide the interface to the various clients running on both Java and Non- Java applications.  ? Tested the SOAP & REST Webs service functionality using SOAP UI & CREST by passing Test Data.  ? Experience in using Splunk software to view, analyze and search the data from application logs.  ? Tested the developed components using JUnit4.0 and Mockito frameworks.  ? Responsible and active in the analysis, definition, design, implementation and deployment of full software development life-cycle (SDLC) of the project.  ? Experience in coordinating with the offshore team. Java Developer ADP - Boston, MA January 2016 to May 2017 Technologies  Java 1.7/J2EE, Spring Framework4.0 (Spring MVC, Spring IOC), SOAP Web Services, Hibernate 4.0, Toad Oracle 12g, Eclipse, Oracle WebLogic server, XML, Maven, ANT, Siebel, Mercurial, Jenkins, File Tool.    Description: ADP's employee benefits administration solution is designed to help simplify how you manage and deliver your company's retirement, insurance and other benefits. Consider the advantages of integrating benefits administration with those other areas. Having a single data set makes managing all your services more efficient. You get support from a single provider and have just one interface to learn.    Responsibilities:  ? Working on the Service Request from production like Data issues, configuration issues using different tools like Siebel for various clients that are associated with ADP.  ? Analyzing the Service Request based on the business of the Client.  ? Fixing the issues either by making changes to the configuration files like XML or JS as per the BRD based on the issue.  ? Cloning the client specific code from Mercurial using the commands through command prompt.  ? Running the respective jobs using JMT tool in all the environments like Test, QA, UAT and Production, and QuickBuild is used as a continuous integration tool.  ? Developed the Application layer or GUI framework using JSP, HTML, CSS, Spring MVC, JavaScript.  ? Bean injections in the java application were done using Spring F/W's Dependency Injection module.  ? Transferring and receiving of input and output files from and to different clients through FTP server.  ? Jenkins is configured easily through web GUI which helps to check the errors on the fly. Java Developer MASSDOT (Deloitte) - Boston, MA November 2014 to December 2015 Duration November 2014 - December 2015  Technologies  Java 1.7/J2EE, Spring Framework4.0 (Spring MVC, Spring JDBC, Spring Batch, Spring IOC), JSP2.0, SOAP Web Services, Hibernate 4.0, HTML, Bootstrap JS, Toad Oracle 12g, SQL Developer, JQuery, AJAX, Eclipse IDE, Oracle WebLogic server, Java Beans, IBM Rational Tools (RTC, RRC), ANT, JUnit, OEM tool, OBPM, HP Live Editor, HP Exstream.    Description: The RMV's mission-critical application, which is called the Automated Licensing and Registration System (ALARS), the RMV's mainframe and database for all registry transactions. ALARS is used to maintain all records for Massachusetts-licensed drivers, including licenses, registrations, criminal and civil citations, inspection stickers, and various miscellaneous fees. The primary actors for the ALARS MDI solution are Customers, Employees and Business Partners. The primary entities are Application, Vehicle data, Identity, Determination, Violation, Customer Interaction, Correspondence Request, Report Request etc.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Analysis, Design and Implementation of Business User requirements.  ? Developed the Application layer or GUI framework from scratch using JSP, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap JS, AJAX. Client-Side validations were done using Bootstrap JS.  ? Used AJAX for request response processing without reloading the complete page.  ? Written complex HQL Queries using Hibernate criteria, projections to fetch or insert data into or from different tables in DB.  ? Developed Batch processing jobs using Spring Batch Framework.  ? Bean injections in the java application were done using Spring F/W's Dependency Injection module.  ? Written complex SQL Queries using Spring JDBC to fetch or insert data for the Batch processing.  ? Used IBM Rational Tools like RTC as Version Control tool.  ? Used SonarQube for continuous inspection of code quality.  ? Developed & consumed XML/WSDL/SOAP Web Services to provide the interface to the various clients running on both Java and Non- Java applications.  ? Extensively involved in developing core persistence layer using Hibernate 4.0 framework, writing HQL queries, creating hibernate mapping (.hbm) files.  ? Ran the batch jobs on UNIX OS through the command prompt and moved the logs from UNIX machine to Windows machine with the help of WINSCP tool.  ? Prepared Test Cases to perform Unit, Integration and System Testing. Tested the developed components using JUnit4.0 and Mockito tools.  ? Involved in Performance Tuning for the entire application using the OEM tool, since the development was from scratch.  ? Responsible and active in the analysis, definition, design, implementation and deployment of full software development life-cycle (SDLC) of the project.  ? Waterfall methodology has been followed. Experienced with stand-up, Retrospective meetings.  ? Experience in coordinating with the offshore team.    5. #Name  Integrated Eligibility System (IES) & MDM Data Integration,  BEACON 3 Matches (Benefit Eligibility and Calculation Online Network) Java Developer Common Wealth of MA(XEROX) - Boston, MA January 2012 to October 2014 Technologies  Java 1.5/J2EE, Spring Framework 2.5, Web Services, Hibernate 3.0, HTML, JavaScript, Toad Oracle 10.6g, JQuery, AJAX, Eclipse IDE, Web logic, XML, XSLT.    Description: The Department of Transitional Assistance (DTA) is implementing business process changes for the Application, Recertification and Maintenance of cash and SNAP cases. The primary change involves developing a statewide "First Available Worker" (FAW) model that is client-centric and flexible enough to respond to increases in case volume. The FAW model will be incorporated into the DTA eligibility system known as BEACON and will exist alongside the current caseload assignment model.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Analysis, Design and Implementation of Business User requirements.  ? Responsible for system analysis, design and development using Vantage Frame work which is built on top of Java J2EE architecture and Spring 2.5 MVC.  ? Developed the Application layer or GUI framework using HTML, CSS, and GUI Builder tool.  ? Client-Side validations were done using JavaScript.  ? Used AJAX for request response processing without reloading the complete page.  ? Written complex SQL Queries to fetch data from different tables in a DB.  ? Used CVS (Concurrent Version System) for Versioning as the configuration management tool.  ? Extensively involved in developing core persistence classes using Hibernate 3.0 framework, writing HQL queries, creating hibernate mapping (.hbm) files.  ? Ran the batch jobs on UNIX OS through the command prompt.  ? Actively involved in getting the production issues resolved. Java Developer V-Empower Pvt. Ltd June 2010 to December 2011 Technologies JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JavaScript, HTML, Apache Tomcat Server, Oracle 9i, PL/SQL.    Description: The application was a Student Record Access system developed for a University, which aimed at automating the process of course, registration. The application consisted of two roles-student and University. The students could go online to check the list of classes available and register for the open sections. The registration was notified via email.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed the application using Java, J2EE, created web pages using Servlets and JSP's for generating HTML pages dynamically through Eclipse IDE.  ? Involved in developing forms using HTML and performing client-side validations using JavaScript.  ? Experience in writing XML file and validating it using XSD schema.  ? Used queries to get the data from the Oracle database using SQL. Education Bachelor's in Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Hyderabad - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2010