Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - Optimity Advisors Washington, DC • Over 9+ years of experience in full stack development by using the JAVA/J2EE technologies in all phases of SDLC which involves design, development,and execution of Web-based applications and client-server multi-tier applications.  • Hands on experience in UI technologies like HTML5, XHTML, DHTML, CSS3 (SASS, LESS), Bootstrap and AJAX to build responsive and dynamic web pages.  • Expertise in using JavaScript/TypeScript to build interactive web pages and hands-on experience in JavaScript frameworks like jQuery, ReactJS and HandleBar JS.  • Expertise in obtaining MVC functionality by implementing ReactJS with Redux and flux patterns.  • Proficient knowledge on Angular 2.x/4.x with NGRX to obtain MVVM design flow, developed front-end applications by using Angular JS, Backbone JS, Ember JS, Knockout JS,andExtJS to obtain Model View Controller (MVC) design flow.  • Good knowledge in implementing ES6 features like arrows, block scoping, enhanced object literals, promises,and modules.  • Proficient experience in building dynamic SPA (Single Page Application) using MEAN full stackjavascript framework.  • Expertise in developing Restful API with Node JS (ExpressJS, HapiJS).  • Developed web admin for sales application using AngularJS with bower, npm,andgulp to handle plugins.  • Hands on experience in Automated and Manual testing with AngularJS framework (Karma, Jasmine, Protractor) and Mocha, Chai for ReactJS.  • Experience in Java 8 features likes Concurrency, Multi-threading, Functional interface, Lambda functions, Time API, Stream API, Collection API, Filter API, Exception Handling and Transaction Management.  • Good knowledge of Relational databases (Oracle, MySQL, Microsoft SQL Server, PostgreSQL, and DB2) and NoSQL databases (MongoDB, Cassandra,and Redis).  • Worked with various J2EE frameworks like JSP, JMS, JDBC, EJB and Servlets and web spring MVC like Structs, JSF, Spring MVC,and master level experience in spring modules like Spring Security, Spring Batch, Spring Boot, Spring JTA, Spring Cloud, Spring AOP.  • Expertise in using servers like Apache Tomcat, JBoss, IBM WebSphere,andWebLogic to configure and deploy applications.  • Expertise in configuring, designing and programming IBM Collaboration Server (PIM) version 10/11.  • Monitoring and troubleshooting the performance of WebSphere Commerce server.  • Enhanced and deployed applications based on Micro Services using Spring Boot and Spring Cloud.  • Expertise in creating DAOs (Data Access Objects) by utilizing Spring Data JPA at compile time.  • Proficient in using JSP to implement the view layer, using Spring2.0(IOC, AOP) to implement the business layer, and using Hibernate and DAO to implement persistent layer.  • Extensive knowledge in developing efficient, reliable, scalable enterprise and web applications using EJB, JMS, JSP, JNDI, Struts, JSF(Prime Faces).  • Good experience with RESTful services (JAX-Rs and Spring Boot), SOAP services (JAX-WS, Apache CXF, Apache Axis2, WSDL) and WADL and Swagger are used to automate documentation.  • Experience in achieving Test Driven Development (TTD) goals using JUnit, SpringJUnitRunner, Mockito Easy mock, Test, NG,and Spock.  • Expertise in providing authentication and authorization for web services using Open ID Connect (OIDC) with OAuth 2.0.  • Expertise in themessagingqueues like JMS, IBM MQ, Rabbit MQ, Active MQ,and Apache Kafka.  • Experience in integration tools like Mule ESB, Spring Integration, Apache Kafka and Apache Camel.  • Build areal-time application on Apache Web servers using Elastic Search, Kibana 4.0(ELK), Logstash, Splunk.  • Experienced in setting up Amazon EC2 instances, virtual private cloud (VPCs), and security groups, Data Pipeline,and Lambda.  • Strong Knowledge of behavioral testing and integration testing of the application using Cucumber and Selenium respectively Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer Optimity Advisors - Washington, DC July 2017 to Present OPTIMITY ADVISORS helps its clients design and implement new strategies, products, services, processes, business models and applications that transform their businesses. Optimity's clients range from financial institutions to Healthcare, including Insurance, Media and Entertainment industries.    Responsibilities:  • Followed agile methodology and involved in daily SCRUM meetings, sprint planning, showcases and retrospective and used JIRA as a tracking tool for the sprints.  • Implemented Core Java design patterns like Facade, Service locator, Singleton, Factory method, Template method, Observer, Data Access Objects, Transfer Object, etc.  • Have written applications to Multithreaded along with NIO to achieve high throughput; Used both Synchronous and Asynchronous execution types.  • Created an external API using Spring Boot with an annotation driven approach.  • Implemented Authentication and Authorization flows using Auth0, OAuth2 and Spring Security.  • Developed REST controllers using Spring MVC to serve the UI with required JSON data.  • Developed REST Exception Handling controller advices to respond to bad requests and server-side exceptions.  • Developed cache mechanisms using EhCache.  • Wrote test cases using JUnit. Used POSTMAN to test the REST services.  • Used GSON to serialize/deserialize Java Objects.  • Used Hibernate in the persistence layer and implemented DAOs to access data from MS SQL Server database.  • Wrote SQL Queries for MS SQL on several occasions.  • Worked on Java EJB based internal Web Services.  • Worked with Middleware using Message driven by POJO (MDP) after creating Queues on JBOSS server and using JMStemplate for asynchronous functionality for multiple users.  • Wrote a decoder for JSON Web Tokens (JWT).  • Used Apache POI framework with Java to handle Spreadsheets.  • Designed the front-end screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap.  • Created models, views, events, triggers, listeners using Backbone.js.  • Took part in setting up the routing configuration using Backbone Router to connect pages to actions and events.  • Configured Gulp to perform various UI build and test related tasks and used NodeJS NPM and Bower to manage the dependencies.  • Developed unit test cases using Karma.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python in order to extract and load data into database and used Test driven approach.  • Wrote Python Scripts to generate dummy data and requests.  • Worked on their test automation framework written in Python and Selenium.  • Used GIT as version control system, to keep track of all the work & all changes, allowing several developers to collaborate and used Maven as build and configuration tool.  • Involved in configuration and usage of Apache Log4J for logging and debugging purposes.  • Prepared Documentation for Unit Test Plan and Unit Test Results for the QA purpose. Participated in the release night shakeouts/overnight deliveries and QA Support.  • Was involved in builds and deployments on TeamCity, Tomcat and JBOSS servers.    Environment: Java 8, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Security, EhCache, Auth0, OAuth2.0, Hibernate, JPA, JBOSS, Tomcat, Python, MongoDB, Apache POI, GSON, MS SQL Server, HTML5, CSS3, Backbone.js, JQuery, JavaScript, GIT, JMS, Agile, JIRA tool, Selenium, Log4j, Maven. Full Stack Java Developer AT&T sales channels - Dallas, TX April 2016 to June 2017 COS is a web based application where customers can access or check their order status information for orders placed through all AT&T sales channels such as Online, IVR, and Call Centres on orders placed in the past 30 days. COS has different type of orders like New Order, Change Order, Account update order and Disconnect the order. It mainly caters to the AT&T services.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysing Software Requirements, Specification, Design and implementation of application using Agile (Scrum) methodology.  • Extensively worked on both consumption & producing of RESTful based Webservices using JAX-RS & jersey parsers.  • Used REST API, HTTP requests and implemented JSON format for data exchange for communication of microservices with one another and pushed it to Docker Container.  • Implemented the project as a multi-tier application using Spring MVC, Spring boot, Microservices & used core Spring concepts like MVC, AOP, IOC.  • Expertise in Core Java with strong understanding and working knowledge of Object Oriented Concepts like Collections, Multi-Threading, Concurrency framework.  • Developed applications using the latest Java/ J2EE technologies and worked with the latest features of Java 8 and Java 7.  • Used Agile Methodology for the project.  • Developed several SOAP Webservice stubs using AXIS 2.0 engine, SOAP UI, JAX-RPC, WSDL, Document literal.  • Used JMS to place the import run requests into JMS Queue.  • Developed the UI screens using HTML5, CSS3, Ajax, jQuery, Angular 2.0 and was involved in resolving cross browser JavaScript issues.  • Implemented many Restful API webservices using Spring REST API and Jersey Jars.  • Implemented design patterns like DAO, singleton, factory, proxy, adaptor to achieve design principles.  • Developed the application implementing Spring MVC Architecture with Hibernate as ORM framework.  • Used Hibernate 4.0 ORM framework for persistence to database by integrating it with Spring framework using Spring Hibernate template.  • Used GitHub for efficiently managing the source code versions with the development team.  • Designed and developed Junit/JMockito test cases during the development phase.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration and Maven for building the EAR file.  • Served as POC for on call support in the production team on a rotation basis.    Environment: Java 1.7/1.8, Spring 4.0, Spring Boot, Microservices, Hibernate 4.0, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Docker, JQuery, Angular JS 2.0,Maven, XML, XPATH, Linux/Unix, Junit, JMockito, Test NG, Apache Tomcat 8, Jenkins,GitHub,Spring Boot, Angular 2.0. Full Stack Java Developer Assurant - Wayne, PA December 2014 to March 2016 Assurant, Inc. is a global provider of risk management products and services with headquarters in New York City. Its businesses provide a diverse set of specialty, niche-market insurance products in the property, casualty, extended device protection, and preneed insurance sectors. The company's three operating segments are Global Housing, Global Lifestyle, and Global Preneed.    Responsibilities:  • Design, Implement and Maintain ABMS Batch Interfaces and identify the methods which can serve as microservice.  • Coordinated with the business analyst team to gather the requirements.  • Developed UNIX scripts for Java batch jobs.  • Developed RESTful, JAX-WS and Accenture Batch Framework to interact with several State (KDHE and DCF(SRS)) and Federal Agencies.  • Identified and worked closely with teams to create a list of methods, which can be decoupled and reused, and create a list of microservices.  • Created Technical Design Documents (TDD) and walkthrough with clients to get the approvals.  • Worked with processing XML and JSON request and responses.  • Used Spring IOC to couple different layers of application such as web, business,andDAO layers.  • Implemented User Interface in Model-View-Controller Architecture, which accomplishes tight and neat co-ordination of Spring MVC, JSP, Servlets and JSTL.  • Used Apache Sling to manage and store the content and jackrabbit (JCR) as the content store.  • Used JDBC API to query the JCR repository, JCR deployed on WebLogic server.  • Designed and developed data access layer using Data Access Object (DAO), Session Facade, Business Delegate,and Singleton design patterns.  • Responsible for implementing Angular2 components using CLI for the provider portal.  • Configured AWS IAM and Security Group in Public and Private Subnets in VPC.  • Build servers using AWS, importing volumes, launching EC2, RDS, creating security groups, auto-scaling, load balancers (ELBs) in the defined virtual private connection.  • Involved in provisioning AWS S3 buckets for backup of the application and sync this content with remaining S3 backups, by creating an entry for AWS S3 SYNC in crontab.  • Configured hibernate to make use of second level caching to display the static lookup data from the database.  • Used GIT HUB as version control software to manage the source code and to keep track of changes to files which is fast and lightweight system.  • Used Log4J as the logging framework.  • Developed Unit testing framework driven by Test First methodology (TDD), to develop test cases for business layer and User Interface using mock objects.    Environment: Java 7.0, J2EE, Eclipse IDE, JSF2.0, Spring Portlets, Spring MVC, Spring JDBC, JDBC, Hibernate 3.2.6, Oracle, Web services, SOAPUI, SQL, jQuery, JSP, Servlets, JSTL, HTML5, AngularJS, NodeJS, AWS, Maven, Git/GitHub, CSS, Internationalization, Adobe Live Cycle etc. Full Stack Java Developer Nationwide Insurance - Columbus, OH April 2013 to November 2014 Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company and affiliated companies is a group of large U.S. insurance and financial services companies based in Columbus, OH. The company also operates regional headquarters in Des Moines, IA; San Antonio, TX; Gainesville, FL; Raleigh, NC; Sacramento, CA, and Westerville, OH.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the requirements analysis, designing, development, testing and deployment of the enhancements  • Develop Servlets, Session and Entity Beans to implement business logic and deploy them on the Web Sphere Server.  • Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural Pattern using Struts Framework including JSP, Servlets, EJB, Form Bean and Action classes  • Used Web logic server for deployment and eclipse 3.0 as Java IDE tool for creating JSP's, Servlets.  • Involved in developing raw java back end programs for back end Interfaces programs which would involve processing the batch files and the mock-up files.  • Used JSP, JavaScript, JSTL, EL, Custom Tag libraries, Tiles,and Validations provided by struts framework.  • Worked extensively on SOAP Web Services, XML, JMS,and Spring Controller.  • SOAP (JAX-WS) web services have been developed to be consumed by a middleware module to push the communication center messages into the web module.  • Created relevant staging tables to load the CSV files, identified the business validation rules. Created SQL Loader script generator application using UNIX shell scripting and PL/SQL.  • Coded different action classes in struts responsible for maintaining deployment descriptors like struts-config, EJB-jar,andweb.xml using XML.  • Developed authentication and authorization classes and manage it in the front controller for all the users per their entitlements.  • Implemented caching techniques, wrote POJO classes for storing data and DAO's to retrieve the data and did other database configurations using EJB.  • Prepared EJB deployment descriptors using XML.  • Involved in Configuration and Usage of ApacheLog4J for logging and debugging purposes.  • Created log scripts in XML and the corresponding code in the Java classes.  • Developed Action Classes to service the requests from the UI, populate business objects & invoke EJBs.  • Develop the User Interface Screens for presentation logic using JSP, Struts,and HTML.  • Created Web service methods and worked on with making changes to the WSDL and SOAP protocols as required by the design for the application.  • Written and debugged the ANT Scripts for building the entire web application.  • Created JUnit test classes for the services and prepared documentation.    Environment: Core Java, JEE, Struts, JSP, JSTL, Servlets, JDBC, Log4J, Ant, Apache Tomcat Server, XML, AJAX, JavaScript, Eclipse, GIT, Oracle, PL-SQL. Java Developer Vision Info Tech Pvt. Ltd November 2011 to March 2013 Vision Infotech was established in the year 2011. We are a global IT solutions provider company with an experience of several years and an extensive workforce of efficient employees.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Design, Development Phases of quotes, customer service modules.  • Developed the front-end using JSP, Struts, MVC, JavaScript, HTML,andDHTML.  • Used Struts-validation Framework to provide Validation.  • Developed middleware business logic using Enterprise JavaBeans.  • Release deployment planning and execution of releases.  • Used ClearCase for version control.  • Utilized frameworks such as Hibernate and Spring for persistence and application layers  • Implemented database connectivity using Spring JDBC framework and PHP to work upon different modules  • Used Spring Boot at back-end which helps to develop an application with ease  • Worked in the development of DAO classes for the data access logic.  • Designed the table fewer web applications using CSS and with the help of and tags as per W3C standards  • Continuously provide input to project management activities throughout the project lifecycle influencing scope, risk plan, project plan, issues and status    Environment: Java, J2EE, Struts, XML, SOAP, WSDL, AJAX, JSP, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Log4J, JAXB, JUnit, Tomcat 5, JBoss 5.0. Java Developer Hucon Technologies January 2010 to October 2011 Hucon Solutions is an Integrated HR Service Provider for all Corporates all over India. We are backed by a good ERP and enough experience in HR and related activities. Hucon Solutions was launched in April 2008, with an aim to grow into a one-stop shop for all HR requirements for clients in India.    Responsibilities:  • Gathered user requirements followed by analysis and design. Evaluated various technologies for the Client.  • Developed HTML and JSP to present Client-sideGUI.  • Involved in the development of JavaScript code for Client-Side Validations.  • Designed the HTML based web pages for displaying the reports.  • Developed Java classes and JSP files.  • Responsible to create CRUD methods using Hibernate & Spring framework  • Wrote SQL queries and Spring Controller to handle data and request to Spring application  • Extensively used XML documents with XSLT and CSS to translate the content into HTML to present to GUI.  • Developed dynamic content of presentation layer using JSP.  • Worked on Web Logic application server to deploy JSP and EJB applications.  • Created and implemented PL/SQL stored procedures, triggers.    Environment: Core Java, J2EE, EJB 2.1, JSP 2.0, Servlets 2.4, JSP, JNDI 1.2, Java Mail 1.2, JDBC. Education Bachelor's Skills database. (7 years), Java (9 years), JavaScript (8 years), Model View Controller (7 years), Model-View-Controller (7 years)