Java/AWS developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/AWS <span class="hl">developer</span> Java/AWS developer - CapitalOne McLean, VA • Java/J2EE Developer with around 7 years of experience in Software Development, Design, Analysis, and development of Web Applications in Client/Server environment using Core JAVA/J2EE applications.  • Experienced with the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) process and Iterative Development Model.  • Experience in spring framework modules like Spring MVC (Model View Controller), Spring DAO (Data Access Object), DI (Dependency Injection) Spring Boot and Spring JPA using Hibernate.  • Developed RESTful web services interface to Java-based runtime engine and accounts.  • Experience with Core Java concepts such as Serialization, IO, Multithreading, Collections and Exception Handling.  • Experience in Web-Development technologies like JavaScript, Angular, AJAX, jQuery, JSP, JSON, HTML and XML.  • Experience in core AWS services (S3, EC2, ELB, Route53, VPC, Subnet, Auto Scaling, cloud Trail, cloud Watch, ECS etc).  • Good knowledge on other services in AWS like DynamoDB, SQS and SNS.  • Created AWS security groups for deploying and configuring AWS EC2 instances.  • Hand on experience in development of microservices and deploying in AWS ECS (docker container).  • Experience in deploying web applications with different Servers like Apache Tomcat, Web Logic and JBoss.  • Extensive experience in IDE tools like Eclipse, Net Beans and WID (Web Sphere Integration Designer).  • Proficient in RDBMS concepts and experience in working with Oracle 11g and MySQL Database.  • Knowledge in process improvement, normalization/ de-normalization, data extraction, data cleaning and data manipulation.  • Experience in design and development of JUnit test cases using Mockito.  • Experience in working with Test Driven Development (ATDD) and pair programming.  • Experience in writing Maven build scripts and providing logging facility using Log4j.  • Worked in delivering builds and deploying code into various environment like Dev/QA/UAT/Prod.  • Experience in debugging the java code with all the testing tools and logic flow using Eclipse UML plug-in and rational testing tools.  • Resolved application and connectivity problems in Java programs.  • Substantial design skills implementing Unified Modeling Language (UML), Object Modeling Technique (OMT) and Java Design Patterns.  • Experience in version control tools like GIT, SVN and Microsoft visual SourceSafe.  • Experience working on JIRA for bug tracking and functional testing.  • Complete knowledge on Agile and SCRUM structure of software development by conducting meetings and coordinating with the team members to meet the deliverables.  • Excellent communications skills. Adept at building strong working relationships with co-workers and management.  • Cohesive team worker, having strong analytical, problem solving and interpersonal skills.  • Strong interpersonal and communication skills with an ability to lead a team and keep them motivated.  • Received- On the Spot Award: In appreciation of my outstanding contribution and on time completion rate.    Technology Certification:  AWS Certified Solutions Architect - Associate (SAA) (July 2017) (78%).  Technical Experience:    Programming Languages Core Java, J2EE, C, C++.  Web Technologies JSON, Servlets, JDBC, Web Services, JMS, RESTful, HTML, HTML4, CSS, DHTML, Java Beans, JavaScript, Angular JS, AJAX.  XML Technologies XML, XSL, XSLT, XML Beans and JAXB.  Web/App Servers Apache Tomcat 4.0/5.0/6.0, Web Sphere Application Server 8.0, JBoss  IDE Eclipse, Net Beans, Red Hat Developer Studio, RAD, IBM RSA development IDE  Tools TOAD, Xml Spy, Ant, PL/SQL Developer, JUnit, JMock  HTML Editors MS-FrontPage 2003, Adobe Dreamweaver. Work Experience Java/AWS developer CapitalOne - McLean, VA January 2019 to Present Description: Card Fraud, customers if they see a charge that may be a fraud transaction then they will file a fraud through Empath (Computer)/Ease (Mobile) these channels will call our API to Determine the Fraud Type and process the Fraud Claims that were claimed on the credit card for an authorized / primary user.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the requirements Analysis meetings, grooming sessions and understand the requirements to develop the modules.  • Worked for 4 modules on agile base development cycle with a By-weekly sprint.  • Implemented modules using Core Java API's, Java Collection, Java 8(Streams) and object - oriented designs.  • Development of spring boot Microservices and deploy them in the docker container.  • Deploy performance wire mocks on perf cluster using Jenkins CI/CD pipeline.  • Working knowledge on running a docker -enable application on an Amazon ECS cluster behind the load balancer.  • Creation of Aws components SQS, EC2, ELB, ECS.  • Checking of AWS logs and docker logs if any issues during deployment.  • Used spring core annotations for dependency injection.  • Designing and developing Restful API and services using best practices to interact with in the micro services.  • Wrote POJO classes to map to the tables in the database using JPA - Hibernate integration.  • Responsible for writing SQL queries for data manipulation.  • Involved in post-production support with LTA (live testing accounts).  • Effective tracking of code using Log 4j2 and Log back.  • Wrote unit test cases using Junit and Mockito.  • Wrote ATDD for integration testing.    Environment: Java 8, Spring Boot, Maven 3.3, Spring REST, Spring JPA, Hibernate, SDP, ECS, Docker, EC2, SQS, S3, Cloud Watch Logs, Splunk dashboard, Cucumber, JUnit 4, Mockito, GIT, Java Beans, Jenkins, Eclipse Luna, PostgreSQL, JIRA, JSON. Java/J2ee developer Johnson & Johnson - Somerville, NJ October 2016 to November 2018 Description: Business to Business transactions involving peer-peer flow of transaction with integrity and atomicity. Used Java Technologies to develop pages for the business flow and Web components have been integrated to support the business.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the requirements Analysis meetings and understand the requirements for the modules for development.  • Worked on 5 verticals of an application on agile base development cycle with a By-weekly sprint.  • Used Eclipse as IDE tool to develop the application and JIRA for bug and issue tracking.  • Implemented navigation using Spring MVC controllers, configured controllers using Spring MVC annotations and configuration files.  • Designed and Developed End to End customer self service module using annotation-based Spring MVC, Java Beans and jQuery.  • Provided connections using Spring JDBC to the database and developed SQL queries to manipulate the data.  • Customized RESTful Web Service using Spring RESTful API, sending JSON format data packets between front-end and middle-tier controller.  • Designed and developed very complex and large web pages using AngularJS, HTML 5, and CSS.  • Used Spring DAO concept in order to interact with database (PostgreSQL) using JDBC template.  • Utilized Spring annotations and XML configuration for Dependency Injection.  • Involved in Analysis, Design, development, testing and Maintenance using UML.  • Swing components should be updated directly only in the context of callback methods invoked from the event dispatch thread.  • Used Maven to build the J2EE application.  • Worked on Database Stored Procedures and Functions and views.  • Used GIT controls to track and maintain the different version of the project.  • Used HTML4, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery to create user login, search & portfolio and report creation interface.  • Developed Use Cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Data Models using Microsoft Visio.  • Wrote unit test cases using JUnit, JMock.    Environment: Java 7, Spring 4.0, Maven 3.3, Spring MVC, Spring JDBC, HTML5, JavaScript, JMS, AJAX, JUnit 4, JMock, GIT, Java Beans, Jenkins, Eclipse Luna, PostgreSQL, JIRA, JSON. Java developer Synovus Bank - Columbus, GA December 2015 to September 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various stages of application development through requirement analysis, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed the application using Agile Methodology.  • Developed web application using Spring MVC framework.  • Functionalities include writing code in HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and AngularJS.  • Designed REST APIs that allow sophisticated, effective and low-cost application integration.  • Developed server-side application to interact with database using Spring Boot and Hibernate.  • Used Spring IOC for dynamic bean injection and Spring AOP to modularize cross-cutting concerns in aspects.  • AngularJS library has been used for creation of powerful dynamic Web Pages and web applications by using its advanced and cross browser functionality.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking, issue tracking and project management.  • Created Class and sequence diagrams by using Enterprise Architect.  • Used Maven to build, run and create JARs and WAR files among other uses.  • Used Spring IOC, Auto Wired Pojo and DAO classes with Spring Controller.  • CSS was used to keep uniformity in look of the application.  • Deployed the application to TOMCAT server.  • Created numerous test cases using JUnit framework and JUnit for front end UI testing.  • Used SVN for code repository and Eclipse for IDE.  • Used Log4j for application logging and debugging.  • Developed Junit test cases for all use cases and executed them.    Environment: Java 7, Spring 4.0, Hibernate 4.0, Maven 4.0, Spring MVC, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, AngularJS, JUnit, SVN, Jenkins, Eclipse Luna, SQL Server 2012, JIRA, JSON, JSP, Servlets, Log4j. Java Developer TCS, Federal Reserve Bank - IN November 2014 to September 2015 Description: FedCash Central caters the need of 5th district Federal Reserve banks like Richmond, charlotte, Sfo and Baltimore. FedCash Central is a fully automated project to make the money receiving and payment process easier. FedCash Central is through new name for the Standard Cash Application (SCA) replacement system. This application will support Reserve Bank currency and coin operations.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, design and development using Agile Methodology and developed specifications that include Use Cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Activity Diagrams.  • Developed and designed the Graphical User Interfaces using Ajax.  • Developed the presentation layer using JSP, HTML, CSS and client validations using JavaScript.  • Participated in Design and Analysis sessions within team in developing performance enhance algorithmic implementations in every sprint.  • Used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database and writing stored procedures.  • Implementation of SSL Security using Spring Security and Integration of JSF 2.0 with Spring MVC.  • Implemented modules REST web services.  • Developed server-side applications using Angular JS.  • Used Code Coverage tools (fire bug).  • Used JNDI for naming and directory services.  • Implemented Controllers by leveraging the business logic.  • Developed JUnit test cases for Unit testing of the applications.  • Deployed the application in IBM WebSphere Application Server version 8.5.  • Expertise in writing Triggers and Stored Procedures and hands on experiencing with configuring JNDI settings in IBM Console and in application.  • Expertise in working on with Oracle SQL developer workbench.  • Involved in Maven based build process and continuous integration of the project using Jenkins.  • Involved in configuring the maven process writing pom files.    Environment: Spring MVC, REST, JUNIT, Mockito's, IBM WebSphere Application Server 8.5, Oracle SQL Developer Workbench. Core Java Developer TCS, Morgan Stanley - IN September 2011 to October 2014 Description: Morgan Stanley is a leading global financial services firm providing a wide range of investment banking, security, investment management and wealth management service.    Responsibilities:  • Reviewed technical architecture, design documents, and traceability matrix to validate that the project is designed to meet business requirements.  • Implemented mail alert mechanism for alerting the users when their selection criteria are met.  • Developed client-side testing/validation using JavaScript.  • Preparation and execution of unit test cases. Reviewing and committing the code changes done by other team members.  • Used MVC architecture with J2EE standards.  • Used multithreading for writing the collector parser, which was getting real time data in format of JSON, using multithreading improved the performance. More over using concurrency package of collections made it thread safe.  • Developed a Message Driven Bean that uses JMS to manage backend transactions.  • Designed and developed front end using JSP, AJAX, XML, JavaScript.  • Design and development of Action & Form objects as part of Struts frame work.  • Implemented the persistence of data using hibernate. The object data model and corresponding XML implementation were designed and implemented.  • Used Stored Procedures to crunch data and creating view for fetching data from multiple tables on My SQL Server.  • Used MySQL database and Eclipse IDE.  • Creating Design Documents for requirements.  • Used versioning tools like SVN and tracked defects using JIRA.    Environment: Core Java, Jira, SVN, Struts 1.x, SOAP Web Services, UML, JMS, HTML, JSP, JUNIT, XML/XSLT, JavaScript, MySQL. Education Masters in Computer Sciences The College of Saint Rose - Albany, NY 2015 to 2017 Bachelors Andhra University - Eluru, Andhra Pradesh 2007 to 2011 Skills DB2, JDBC, MS SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER, ORACLE, Java, Java J2Ee, J2Ee Additional Information Operating systems Windows, UNIX, Linux, Sun Solaris.  Databases Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g/12c, My SQL, MS SQL Server, DB2.  Defect Tracking JIRA, Bugzilla, Rational ClearQuest  Frameworks  Struts, CSS Frameworks, Spring (Spring core, Spring JDBC, Spring RESTful API), Spring DAO, Spring JPA, Spring Boot, Log4j2, Log Back    OO Modeling UML, Rational Rose.  Version Control systems CM Synergy, SVN, Git.  Cloud Computing AWS - EC2, RDS, S3, ELB, Auto Scaling, Route 53 Dynamo DB, SQS