Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - McKesson Clear Brook, VA • 4 years of experience in analysis, design, development and implementation of, enterprise and web applications, with skills in wide range of Java technologies.  • Good understanding of the System Development life cycle (Requirement, Design, Development, Testing, Deployment and support).  • Experience with development, implementation and maintenance of large web/portal application systems using J2EE technologies (using Core Java, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JMS, Swing, Struts, Spring, Shell Scripting, Hibernate, XML, a, Web service, Axis, NetBeans, Eclipse, ANT.  • Strong programming skills in designing and implementation of multi-tier applications using web-based technologies like Spring MVC and Spring Boot.  • Experienced in working with spring frameworks and ORM mapping tools like Hibernate and MyBatis, which implements Java Persistence API (JPA).  • Good experience in MVC (Model View Controller) architecture using Struts, Spring, spring web flow, JPA 2, JTA, JNID implementing JSTL (JSP Standard tag library) & custom tag development.  • Strong experience in Spring Framework in developing applications using Spring MVC, IOC, AOP,JDBC, JPA, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud and Spring Batch.  • Proficiency in front end development languages like JSP, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, JQUERY, AJAX, JSON, DOJO, XML, XSL, XSLT, AngularJS, ReactJS, Sencha EXT-JS and Bootstrap.  • Experienced in developing SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) and J2EE Web Services based on RESTful, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, JAX-WS, JAXB, JAX-RS using tools like Apache Axis.  • Proficient in working with XML related Technologies XML, XSLT, XPATH, XSL, DTD, DOM, and XML Spy tool.  • Well versed in Web Development Technologies like HTML, DHTML, CSS, XSLT, XML (SAX, DOM), Custom Tags, JAVA SCRIPT.  • Experienced in using JavaScript library JQuery, MS FrontPage, JSP, Struts Tag Library, AngularJS, Jasmine.  • Good knowledge in JSON, JAXB, JAXP and Extensive experience in development and implementation of Restful Web Service as a Provider along with JSON as messaging medium and have also implemented Soap based web services using apache-CXF.  • Experience in using PL/SQL in Oracle, MS SQL Server for developing database to create its objects like tables, views, functions, triggers, RDBMS Design, DB normalization, ER modeling, SQL, PL/SQL, procedures, cursors, functions and stored procedures packages along with knowledge on SQL and HQL Queries. And having knowledge of NO SQL databases like Mongo-dB, Cassandra.  • Experience in Unix/Linux, Shell Scripting, Build and Deployment.  • Experienced with JUnit for unit testing and Log4J for extensible logging, debugging and error tracing.  • Experienced with build tools include Maven, Gradle and Jenkins Version/Source Control tools including SVN and Rational ClearCase. IDE tools like RAD, WSAD, Eclipse, Spring STS, and Borland JBuilder and Oracle Jdeveloper.  • Involved in developing Test plans, Test Cases (Manual/Automated) tools such as Selenium IDE, Selenium Grid, Junit, Test Procedures and white-box and black-box testing.  • Used Continuous delivery / Continuous Integration (CD/CI) tools Docker, Jenkins to deploy this application to AWS along with GIT for Version Control of code for incremental development.  • Worked on various application servers and web servers like WebSphere, BEA Web logic, JBoss and Tomcat Work Experience Java Developer McKesson - Clear Brook, VA May 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of project including requirement Analysis, Designing, Building, Unit testing and Deployment.  • Design and developing web application using core Java and J2EE technologies and worked on various development activities on front-end redesign.  • Developing front end UI screens using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, LESS, Bootstrap, CSS3, Angular-UI and AngularJS.  • Redesigning the E-Z-Pass website to be feasible with HTML 5 and functionality changes according to client requirements. Creating custom, general use modules and components, which extend the elements and modules of core AngularJS.  • Implemented code according to coding standards and created AngularJS Controllers, Services, Directives and Filters. Tested all the application controllers extensively with AngularJS built-in testing features and Jasmine. Implemented spring modules Dependency Injection and Aspect Oriented Programming.  • Developed server side application to interact with database using Spring boot and Hibernate.  • Developing Controllers, Service Classes and DAO based on MVC architecture.  • Integrated Spring DAO for data access using Hibernate, used SQL for querying databases, designed & developed persistence service using Hibernate framework.  • Implemented Server caching using IBM proprietary API classes and used Log4J logging framework for logging messages at various levels.  • Performing unit testing and reviewing the results with the team and participated in daily meetings with the business analysts to document the requirements and enhancements.  • Meetings with the offshore team to address the integrated application issues.  • Extensively used Liquid XML and SOAP UI for testing the web services.  • Worked with third party database tool TOAD to write/fine-tune the SQL queries.  • Coordinating with server admins in application deployments and server configuration.  • Travelled to offshore locations to train the resources and work with the QA analysts.  • Proposed and implemented various ideas like shared libraries, design patterns in developing, deploying and integrating the applications.  • Developed the message listener beans and session beans to read and process queue messages. Configured JMS queues and activation specifications on the application server.  • Configured the EJB container with listeners, data sources and session beans.  • Developed simulator applications using servlets and jsp to test the back end jobs.  • Providing trouble shooting and error handling support for multiple applications.  • Used code version controlling using Tortoise SVN.  Environment: Java 1.7/1.8, EJB 3.1, Servlets 3.0, JDBC 4.0, spring 4.2, Hibernate 4.0, HTML 5, AngularJS 1.6, WebSphere 8.5, Oracle, SOAP UI 5.2, TOAD, Liquid XML, log4j, JUnit, Jenkins, Gradle Tortoise SVN, Win SCP, Windows, Linux. Java/J2EE Developer Arista Networks - Santa Clara, CA September 2017 to April 2018 Responsibilities:  • Analyzed use cases, created interfaces and designed the core functionality from presentation layer to business logic layer.  • Implemented and designed applications using Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) that includes Requirements Analysis, Design, Coding, Testing.  • Implementation and maintaining applications along with methodologies like Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD).  • Responsibilities include analysis of applications, designing of the enterprise applications, functional, technical and project management.  • Design and Developed applications using Core Java, Java Collection, JDBC, Servlets, JSP.  • Implementing Spring and Struts Framework and Re designing the existing applications.  • Working on front-end and back-end application development. Have upgrade additional functionalities and services with the use cases provided. Attended JAD sessions for collecting the business requirements. Worked on creation of MOCKUP screens using BluePrint and presented to the users before development.  • Re-developing JSP elements, Custom Tag Libraries and JavaScript code for JSP's to upload applicant case documents and also retrieve the documents from Enterprise Content Engine.  • Worked on implementing Web-Services SOAP and RESTFUL services in which request and responses are Image documents being transferred between applications.  • Implemented IBM Content Management architecture for an efficient implementation of the view level customizations and interfaced with the application logic.  • Implemented Persistence Layer Queries, Stored procedures, Functions, Packages.  • Used Maven and Ant build scripts to build the application. Use MVC Design Pattern in the application. Incorporated an efficient way of doing builds and deploying the application to Weblogic and TomCat Application Server.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4J and fixed the problems. Used HCS (Health Commerce System) system with Single Sign On for Applications. Used Oracle & MySql Server to manage data and create tables Used Eclipse Luna, Neon Oracle IDE for developing project.  • Developed Parser and Builder XML, XSLT, Java Beans, J-Query. Used JUnit testcases for creating and testing the app.  Environment: J2EE, JSP, Struts2, Spring, IBM Content Management, HTML5, Web Services, RDBMS, JavaScript, XML, JDK, MAVEN, IBM Rational Clear Case, JPA, JSF, JQuery, Weblogic Application Server, GIT, Log4j. Java Developer Bitranet - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2015 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  • Implementing the design patterns like Singleton, value object pattern and Data access objects in the project.  • Involved in system design and development in core java using Collections, multithreading and exception handling. Designed and developed the UI using HTML, CSS and JSP.  • Responsible for development of presentation layer using JSP, spring.  • Business logic was developed using Session beans and container managed persistence services via Hibernate. Involved in developing web services using SOAP (UDDI, WSDL), XML.  • Deployed entity beans on WebSphere Application Server.  • Worked on LDAP configuration for accessing and maintaining distributed directory information services over Web security protocol network.  • Implemented MVC architecture using struts, JSP & Enterprise Java Beans.  • Involved in development of services based architecture utilizing open source technologies like Hibernate ORM and Spring MVC Framework.  • Exposed to all phases of software development life cycle, including in-depth knowledge of RUP. Designing and coding of Action classes and Business Layer and DAO Classes and wired them using Spring Framework.  • Worked on Persistence layer from simple DAO to Spring/Hibernate. Designed Stateless Session Beans fitting the requirement of the business and implemented its interfaces.  • Experience in writing Queries, Stored procedures, Functions, Packages, and Triggers.  • Implemented Data Access Objects (DAO pattern) using JDBC.  • Developed batch programs to update and modify metadata of large number of documents in FileNet Repository using CE APIs  • Extensively used JavaScript to provide the users with interactive, Speedy, functional and more usable user interfaces. Designed Asynchronous communication using Ajax.  • Worked on creating Packages, Stored Procedures & Functions in Oracle using PL/SQL and TOAD. This clearly separates the Business Logic from the Backend access to the Database and the Front end Presentation layer.  • Worked on creating a test harness using POJOs, which would come along with the installer and test the services every time the installer would be run. Involved in the Code review Team that suggests the best way so that the product is stable and is implemented with the best performance and efficiency.  • Used the JDBC for data retrieval from the database for various inquiries. Java Stored Procedure used to generate PDF reports.  Environment: J2EE 1.3, HTML, Java Script, Ajax, JDBC , SQL procedures, Hibernate, Struts Framework 1.1, SAML, Ant, SOA, SOAP, DAO, XML, XSLT, JSP 2.1, JTA 1.1, JQery, Servlet 2.5, Web Service 1.2, IBM WebSphere 6.x, IBM Rational Clear Case, LDAP, MS- Office 2007, Oracle 9i, Eclipse 3.4. Education Bachelor's Skills ECLIPSE, JAVA, SPRING, JAVABEANS, JBOSS, JSP, Javascript, J2Ee, Hibernate, Java J2Ee