Senior Java Developer / webMethods Developer Senior <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> / webMethods <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Java Developer / webMethods Developer - MassMutual Springfield, MA Full Stack Java Developer with 10 years of experience in analysis, development, testing, implementing Web based, Client/Server Applications along with Enterprise and Distributed applications across the entire Software Development Life Cycle using Java and J2EE Technologies.  • Expertise in Java/J2EE Enterprise development based on Struts, Spring Framework.  • Extensively worked with Spring MVC services and Integration.  • Has good knowledge in RESTful web services.  • Experience in developing and consuming Web Services using WSDL, SOAP.  • Worked on Rich User Interface technologies such as CSS3, HTML5, JQuery, Ajax, AngularJS, D3, JSF, JSON and JSP  • Implemented Design patterns such as MVC, Decorator, Data Access Objects, Singleton, Observer, Factory, Builder and Session Facade.  • Well versed with entire development life cycle facilitating Agile Practices  • Expert in Object Oriented Design and good exposure to Functional Programming.  • Excellent working knowledge Jasper and BIRT reports.  • Good experience in working with XML, XSLT.  • Good working experience in Software AG webMethods.  • Worked on Database servers DB2, MySQL and SQL Server.  • Well versed in coding with ORM Frameworks like Hibernate  • Good experience in handling JBoss, Websphere Application Servers.  • Hands on experience in creating Android mobile applications in Android Studio environment.  • Hands on experience in PHP, .Net Framework and Drupal CMS.  • Good experience in GIT, PVCS, TFS code repositories.  • Good knowledge in working on Jenkins Continuous Integration tool.  • Extensive experience of HP Quality Center, Service Manager.  • Experience in using Build Automation scripting like, Apache ANT and Maven.  • Good experience in source control management concepts such as Branching, Merging, Labeling/Tagging and Integration.  • Have worked extensively with Business users for Requirements gathering, designing, and presenting final functionality/deliveries to clients and have worked closely with offshore teams for accomplishing projects with stringent deadlines.  • Experience in working with multiple vendors and geographically distributed teams.  • Certified SAFe Agilist.  • Experience in Leading Development teams including Offshore.  • Successfully implemented complex projects with global implementation model, and rapidly evolving requirements. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Senior Java Developer / webMethods Developer MassMutual October 2016 to Present Project Title: Business Enhancements and Maintenance for Life Insurance Systems (MMLIS), Compensation and Licensing Systems  Description: This project is for enhancements and steady state maintenance for all web based and reporting applications for MML Investors Services, LLC is a Broker-Dealer and Registered Investment Adviser subsidiary of Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company (MassMutual). The project involves addressing and implementing the requests created by Business area of MMLIS. The enhancement requests addressing addition or change in existing business rules like change in federal Compliance or tax rules, report format, automation of Business manual process, introducing new product or new reports etc. The maintenance and enhancement requests, which address bugs fixes, changes and addition of new functionality to the existing applications.    Role and Responsibilities:  • Interacting with the Business Analyst for requirement specification for a software system containing complete description of the behavior of the system to be developed and the enhancements that needed to the present system.  • Helped Business Analysts in requirement gathering during JAR (Joined Application Requirements) session. Provided necessary inputs which helps in finalizing requirement and project time line.  • Created UI Design templates and JQuery scripts for data manipulation and validation and presented during JAD (Joined Application Development) Sessions.  • Prepared Detail design of solution for the given set of requirements with the primary focus on Performance, Flexibility, Interoperability, Reliability and Testability. Technical Design Document and Unit Test case documents created using Excel, Word templates.  • Prepared Use case and Class diagrams using Visio.  • Responsible for creating database models and preparing ER-Model diagrams.  • Created Dynamic pages using HTML5, CSS3 following latest W3C Standards.  • Coded for Client side validation, drop down menus, tab navigation using JavaScript, JQuery  • Created D3 visualizations such as stacked bars, streamgraph, grouped bars.  • Created API for preparing JSON format data from business layer.  • Creating Controllers using Spring MVC APIs.  • Coded SOAP Web Services to call middleware with JAX-WS  • Responsible for developing flow services for Complex Client requirements  • Worked on JDBC Adapter and used Adapter services, Stored Procedures and Adapter notifications.  • Extensively worked on Flow services, Java services, Adapter services, JDE Business functions and Adapter notifications.  • Created JUNIT test case and SOAPUI test suites for testing.  • Participated in code and design reviews and used VERACODE tool for code quality improvements.  • Managed B2B Packages and services to include copying packages between environments, updating services, and activating/deactivating packages.  • Used Maven dependency management system to deploy snapshot and release artifacts to Nexus to share artifacts across projects and environments.  • Experienced in authoring pom.xml files, performing releases with the Maven release plugin, and managing artifacts in Sonatype NEXUS repository.  • Other responsibilities include work allocation for the team members, scheduling and tracking the same  • Co-ordinated with offshore team in all phases of the software development life cycle.    Environment: Java, Spring MVC, XML, JQuery, JQuery-Ajax, JAX-WS, JSON, D3.js, SOAP, DB2, WebSphere, HTML5, CSS3, Software AG webMethods. Senior Java Developer MassMutual October 2015 to September 2016 Project Title: Enhancement Projects for Compliance Systems  Description: This project is for enhancements and steady state maintenance for all web based and reporting applications of Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company (MassMutual) in Compliance domain. As part of this project, we have to create an application to supervise and maintain the funds flowing into the company. This was once of the federal rule and company had to monitor funds, in order to be compliant. This application used by financial operations and servicing teams, we have provided options to create custom user reports and this application had both batch and UI component. Batch used to load and transform the fund information, and UI screen where used to monitor /maintain the funds and generate the reports. The maintenance and enhancement requests, which address bugs fixes, changes and addition of new functionality to the existing applications.    Role and Responsibilities:  • Interacting with the Business Analyst for requirement specification for a software system containing complete description of the behavior of the system to be developed and the enhancements that needed to the present system.  • Prepared Detail design of solution for the given set of requirements with the primary focus on Performance, Flexibility, Interoperability, Reliability and Testability. Technical Design Document and Unit Test case documents created using Excel, Word templates.  • Created Framework using a combination of Builder Pattern to support Multiple Vendors following Open - Closed Principle.  • Responsible for Use-Case development, UML Modeling (Activity Diagram, Sequence Diagram, and Class Diagram) using Microsoft Visio.  • Designed and coded DAOs using Hibernate framework.  • Created business layer API implementations.  • Analyze and resolve conflicts related to merging of source code for GIT.  • Coordinate with Release Management to configure and maintain Jenkins to implement the CI process and integrated the tool with Maven to schedule the builds.  • Created XML data from Java objects using JAXB API  • Created JUNIT test case for testing.  • Analyzed memory footprint for the application and categorically removed unused, redundant variables and re organized large methods.  • Participated in code and design reviews and also used check style tool for code quality improvements  • Other responsibilities include work allocation for the team members, scheduling and tracking the same    Environment: Java, Spring, Struts, XML, JQuery, JQuery-Ajax, JAX-WS, JSON, SOAP, DB2, WebSphere, HTML5, CSS3, Hibernate 4 Senior Java Developer MassMutual January 2014 to September 2015 Project Title: Sales Illustration Report Enhancements  Description: This Project conceptualized with the vision to move from the older PDFS report engine, which will have limited support in the future, and make sure the use of new report futures available with BIRT 4.0 Report engine. Building the reports in BIRT 4.0 is in the alignment with sales illustration longer term vision/strategy as this effort will stream line and modernize the reports and introduce new products that utilize the existing functionality, features and riders of the Legacy products. In addition, this project aligns with customer experience strategy, as it will create better customer experience. At the end of this project, all life reports converted to the BIRT 4.0 strategic report engine.    Role and Responsibilities:  • Prepared Detail design of solution for the given set of requirements with the primary focus on Performance, Flexibility, Interoperability, Reliability and Testability. Technical Design Document and Unit Test case documents created using Excel, Word templates.  • Create BIRT report Design templates and BIRT scripts for data manipulation  • Designed and coded DAOs using Hibernate framework.  • Created business layer API implementations.  • Created XML data from Java objects using JAXB API  • Created JUNIT test case for testing.  • Participated in code, design reviews and code quality improvements.  • Other responsibilities include work allocation for the team members, scheduling and tracking the same    Environment: Java, Business Intelligence Reporting Tool (BIRT 4.0), XML, JAXB, Hibernate 4 Senior Java Developer MassMutual September 2013 to December 2013 Project Title: Geotrax with Text Analytics and Entity Enrichment  Description: This project Client requirement was interested in taking advantage of online activity in order to identify sales opportunities in geographic locations throughout the United States. There is an assumption that certain "watershed events" that occur in a certain area make the business owners in that area more likely to purchase the Insurance products. By using online user activity data, these "watershed events" are detected and agents in those locations made aware of them and the marketing team identify business owners with the highest propensity to buy the insurance products and use this information to support the agents in each location.    Role and Responsibilities:  • Interacting with the Business Analyst for requirement specification for a software system containing complete description of the behavior of the system to be developed and the enhancements that needed to the present system.  • Created business layer Java API using Stanford JavaNLP API.  • Created API for preparing JSON format data from business layer using GSON API.  • Coded RESTful Web Services to call middleware with JAX-RS  • Created D3 visualizations such as stacked bars, streamgraph, and heat map.  • Creating responsive UI for the web pages using HTML5, CSS3.  • Creating JavaScript functions to manipulate data at frontend.  • Worked for the initiative under agile model with daily Scrums.  • Other responsibilities include work allocation for the team members, scheduling and tracking the same    Environment: Java, D3 JS, AngularJS, XML, JSON, HTML5, CSS3, Stanford NLP API. Senior Java Developer The WineBaron July 2012 to September 2013 Project Title: Inventory Management -SysDNA  Description: This is a product for Sales and purchase and retail business. Which provides simple and professional solution to the Industries. It has the flexibility to customize as per customer's requirement. Also, provide ability to track the inventory and create various kinds of reports online and created a simple android App for price handling.    Role and Responsibilities:  • Analyzing the business requirement and Preparing detail design of solution for the given set of requirements with the primary focus on Performance, Flexibility, Interoperability, Reliability and Testability. Technical Design Document and Unit Test case documents created using Excel, Word templates.  • Responsible for creating database models and preparing ER-Model diagrams.  • Creating responsive UI Design templates and JQuery scripts for data manipulation and validation.  • Created Struts 2 controllers and services implementations.  • Created business layer Java class implementations.  • Created Jasper Report designs and backend java API for preparing data for the reports.  • Participated in code, design reviews and code quality improvements.  • Preparation of UTP and testing. '  • Other responsibilities include work allocation for the team members, scheduling and tracking the same.  Environment: Java, Struts 2, XML, Hibernate, JQuery, MySQL, JBoss, Jasper Reports, SOAP Web Services Senior Java Developer KSRTC January 2012 to July 2012 Project Title: Vehicle Monitoring System  Description: This solution is for monitor the vehicle's speed, fuel consumption, GPS tracking, distance travelled and driving behavior. Information received through the TCP/IP protocol from a hardware installed in the vehicle. This system will help fuel saving, improve driving habit and track the vehicle information.    Role and Responsibilities:  • Analyze the business requirement. Analyzing the business requirement and Preparing detail design of solution for the given set of requirements with the primary focus on Performance, Flexibility, Interoperability, Reliability and Testability. Technical Design Document and Unit Test case documents created using Excel, Word templates.  • Responsible for creating database models and preparing ER-Model diagrams.  • Creating responsive UI Design using HTM5 and CSS3 and JQuery scripts for data manipulation and validation.  • Created business layer Java implementations using Java inbuilt Socket programming API.  • Participated in code, design reviews and code quality improvements.  • Preparation of UTP and testing.  • Other responsibilities include work allocation for the team members, scheduling and tracking the same    Environment: Java, Java Concurrent API, Struts 2, XML, Hibernate, JQuery, Jasper Reports, Socket programming, Mysql, JBoss Java Developer Savinirs InfoTech Private Limited June 2011 to December 2011 Project Title: HR-SysDNA  Description: A web based product, which provides simple and professional solution to the Personnel Management in Organizations. HR-sysDNA has the flexibility to customize as per customer's requirement. It has Timesheet Management, to help you manage your employee compensation and work time. Also provide ability to Create own Performance Appraisal tools, setting up own leave management.    Role and Responsibilities:  • Creating responsive UI Design using HTM5 and CSS3 and JQuery scripts for data manipulation and validation.  • Created business layer Java implementations.  • Creating UI Design templates and JQuery scripts for data manipulation and validation.  • Create business layer Java class implementations  • Creating JavaScript functions to manipulate data at frontend.  • Participated in code and design reviews and also used check style tool for code quality improvements  • Preparation of UTP and testing.    Environment: Java, Struts 2, XML, Hibernate, JQuery, Jasper Reports, MySQL, JBoss Java Developer September 2010 to June 2011 Project Title: Asset Tracking  Description: Asset tracking is a highly customized web based product. Active RFID asset tracking uses the tags, which holds a battery and a transmitter. Receiver will receive the signals from tag and send to sever as UDP data. Application in the Server will read this data through java socket programming and provide the result in the UI in user understandable formats such as graph, images, etc.    Role and Responsibilities:  • Analyze the business requirement  • Created multithreaded application architecture to read data from different ports simultaneously using Java Concurrent API.  • Creating UI Design templates and JQuery scripts for data manipulation and validation.  • Created business layer Java implementations using Java inbuilt Socket programming API.  • Created Jasper Report designs and backend java API for preparing data for the reports.  • Creating JavaScript functions to manipulate data at frontend.    Environment: Java, Struts 2, XML, Hibernate, JQuery, Jasper Reports, Java Concurrent API, Socket programming, Mysql, JBoss Java Developer Health care Global January 2010 to September 2010 Project Title: Medical Transition Quality Audit System  Description: A web based application for Quality auditing. Automate the process of Medical transition documentation Quality audit and stores the auditing information and generating various kinds of reports. This system is useful for the client to improve their documentation quality and able to make various reports    Role and Responsibilities:  • Creating UI Design templates and JQuery scripts for data manipulation and validation.  • Create business layer Java class implementations  • Creating JavaScript functions to manipulate data at frontend.  • Created Jasper Report designs and backend java API for preparing data for the reports.  • Preparation of UTP and testing.    Environment: Java, Struts 1.2, XML, Hibernate 4, JQuery, Jasper Reports, MySQL, JBoss Education Master of Computer Application Anna University Chennai - Chennai, Tamil Nadu 2009 Bachelor of Science in (B.Sc.) - Computer Science St.Xavier's College 2006 Skills Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jax, Jaxb, Jax-ws, jquery, Servlets, Struts, .net, Visual studio, Design patterns, Git, Javascript, Jenkins, Json, Php, Pvcs, Visio, Restful, Soap, Core Java, Angular, webMethods (3 years) Additional Information SAFe Agilist