Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - T-Mobile • 8+ years of experience in Software analysis, Design, Development and Implementation. Involved in hands-on development using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Expertise in Core Java with strong understanding and working knowledge of Object Oriented Concepts like Collections, Multi-Threading, Concurrency Framework.  • Expert in UML, Design methodologies and design patterns.  • Expertise in application development frameworks like Struts, Spring, and Hibernate & Angular Js  • Extensive knowledge in working with J2EE technologies such as Servlets, JSP, JDBC, EJB, Java Beans, JMS and Object-Oriented Programming techniques.  • Experienced in using Pivotal Cloud Foundry to deploy Micro Service applications and provide Centralized configuration management for Micro Services using Spring Cloud Config Server.  • Experience in XML related technologies like JAXP, JAXB, XML, XSL, XSD, XPATH and XML Schemas.  • Expertise in developing front - end systems with JavaScript, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, MVC frameworks such as Angular JS as a platform for Web applications.  • Experience in major web application servers: Apache Tomcat, JBoss, Express,  • Expertise in various open source frameworks like Struts 2.x, 1.x, Spring, JSF, Ext JS and ORM Technology like Hibernate.  • Strong RDBMS concepts including expertise in PL/SQL queries like DML, DDL, Stored Procedures, Views, User Defined Functions (UDF), Triggers, and Cursors etc.  • Experience in implementing web-based projects using Web/Application Servers such as Web Logic Apache Tomcat, and WebSphere.  • Extensive experience in writing complex PL/SQL queries.  • Expertise in using IDE's like Eclipse, Net Beans, My Eclipse, for development.  • Have knowledge/experience in Software Development Processes like SDLC, Waterfall, Test Driven Development (TDD), Iterative and Agile Methodologies.  • Exceptional ability to quickly master new concepts and a proactive team player. Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer T-Mobile - Bellevue, WA July 2018 to Present T-Mobile Universe 2.0/ Rebellion has three channels Retail, Care and Web. Retail Application is in store system, Care Application is used by Customer Care Representatives and Web Application is direct customer interactive system. All three systems interact with Façade API and have almost similar set of flows. Enterprise architecture has all three layers Façade, Core and Ericsson (backed system).  Responsibilities:  • Involved in all the phases of SDLC including Requirements Collection, Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications and Development of the Application  • Extensively worked on both consumption & producing of RESTful based webservices using JAX-RS &jersey parsers.  • Developed responsive web Interfaces using Angular JS, Bootstrap, jQuery, JavaScript, Ajax, CSS and HTML 5  • Used Hibernate to improve the application throughput and created the mappings to fit the existing table structure.  • Implemented the order grouping module using heavy multi-threading concepts & latest java concurrency features to make the code thread safe.  • Involved in performance tuning of application, monitoring the end of day load and application behavior using JProfiler.  • Used Spring JDBC template to perform the database operations.  • Developed the UI screens using HTML5, CSS3, Ajax &Angular JS.  • Used JSF framework in developing user interfaces using JSF UI Components, Validator, Events and Listeners.  • Design classes in backend to process various requests from front end and to generate responses using Servlets, core java and PL/SQL.  • Involved in Performance tuning of MySQL scripts and procedures using different methods.  • Developed Session Beans to process user requests and to load and store information from database.  • Wrote Stored Procedures and complex queries in Oracle 11c database.  • Designed and developed test cases during the development phase.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration and Maven for building the EAR file.  • Involved in building and maintaining cloud-based infrastructure on AWS.  • Used CVS for efficiently managing the source code versions with the development team.  • Served as POC for on call support in the production team on a rotation basis.    Environment: Java 1.8, Spring 4.0, Spring Boot, Microservices, Maven 3, Selenium, Test NG, WebLogic 12, Hibernate 4.2,Oracle 12c, PL/SQL, Github, , Angular JS 2.0, HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, Jenkins, XML, XPATH. Full Stack Java Developer Voya Financial - Windsor, CT September 2016 to June 2018 Maestro CL is an existing commercial loan origination and review application used in Voya for the commercial loan process. It provides an intuitive User Interface with enhanced search capabilities, information security and role-based user access to the various functionalities. The Module Borrowers and Proposals part of Maestro CL facilitates searching for borrowers and creating new Proposals and editing the existing Proposals. The application provides the ability to generate the approval documents in different forms like Long, Short, Extension, CAR, ACH etc.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in all the phases of SDLC including Requirements Collection, Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications and Development of the Application.  • Implemented the project as a multi-tier application using Spring MVC, Spring boot, Microservices & used core Spring concepts like AOP, IOC  • Worked on server-side implementation using spring core, spring annotations navigation from presentation to other layers using Spring MVC and integrated spring with Hibernate using Hibernate template to implement persistent layer.  • Implemented Spring Boot and Micro Services to divide the application into various sub modules.  • Expertise in Core Java with strong understanding and working knowledge of Object Oriented Concepts like Collections, Multi-Threading, Concurrency framework.  • Implemented UI using Angular JS, Java Script, jQuery, HTML5 and CSS3.  • Developing stored procedures to implement the business logic, and calling from Hibernate using callable statements and used applications using JSP, Servlets, JDBC, and Hibernate  • Maintenance and support activities of MySQL v5.0 environment.  • Designing REST APIs, supporting JSON, that allow sophisticated, effective, and low-cost application integration  • Using REST APIs with JAX-RS to consume Web Services, to handle two interfaces, XML and JSON.  • Prepared the JUnit test cases, Integration scenarios to test the implementation.  • Generated the WSDL files to implement the Web Service.  • Experience in dealing with CI/CD tools like Jenkins, Git Stash.  • Resolved production issues while deploying the application and provided the production support while the application is in UAT.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration, GitHub for version management & Maven for building the application in the cloud leveraging AWS API's.  • Served as POC for on call support in the production team on a rotation basis.    Environment: Java 1.7, Servlets, JSP 2.1, Spring 3.0, Hibernate 3.0, Spring Boot, SoapUI, JBoss, Maven, Git, Log4j, Junit, HTML 5.0, CSS 3, JavaScript, Ajax, JQuery, Angular JS 1x, Oracle 11g, JMS, Web services. Java Developer GAP Inc - San Francisco, CA March 2015 to August 2016 An order management system (OMS) automates and streamlines order processing for businesses. An OMS provides constantly updated inventory information, a database of customers, a record of customer returns and refunds, information on billing and payments, order processing records. Due to the limitations like, use of third party OMS (IBM Sterling), slow processing of orders at peak times, DB limitations and to cut down the annual maintenance cost for license leads to replace the existing system.    • Extensively involved in performance optimization of the core collections/hash map and troubleshooting the problems for high concurrent user load.  • Handled Java multi-threading part in back-end component.  • Extensively worked on XML, XSLT, XQuery, XPath, XSD.  • Designed and developed multi-threaded, Java based, real-time payments processing system.  • Writing complex business logic using PL/SQL Packages, stored procedures and SQL queries.  • Designed and developed front end using JSPs, HTML5, CSS3, Ajax, Javascript, JQuery.  • Prepare and review the technical design for the system that adheres to the MVC architecture using Front Controller, Business Delegate and DAO patterns.  • Involved in injecting dependencies into code using concepts like IOC of Spring MVC Framework  • Extensively used Core Java for writing business logic and Helper Classes  • Involved in Coding for the Creation of Session beans for throttling component  • Involved in writing SOAP based Web Services using Axis2 framework to expose some Bill pay services to Banks  • Responsible for development of configuration, mapping and Java beans for Persistent layer ORM using Hibernate.  • Involved in writing and reviewing unit test cases using JUnit, TestNG, SoapUI  • Involved in writing shell scripts for deploying application on ALL UNIX Flavors.  • Supported the application in Production environment.  • Involved in configuration and deployment of all components on WebSphere Application Server and provided support in debugging deployment issues  • Designed and implemented the logging mechanism using Log4j API.    Environment: Java 1.6, HTML 4, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery 1.7, AJAX, ANT, SVN, Windows XP, Linux, Spring Core 3.0, Spring MVC, Hibernate 3.5, DAO, Oracle 11g, PL/SQL, JDBC, Oracle WebLogic 10. Java Developer UHF Solutions - Karachi, PK October 2011 to February 2015 Generic System - Generic Workflow is a single end-to-end system, which is used to track documents that are received for each and every line of business. This system is used track/publish reports. It is mainly developed to cater to all healthcare & non-health care line of business specific requirements in the BPO industry.    • Analyze the new enhancements and translate Business Requirements into Functional Requirements and prepare Design Documents.  • Front end design using JSP and business logic in Servlets.  • Analysis, design and development of Application using J2EE technologies like JSP, Servlets, and EJB.  • Developed the database and UI design for the web module.  • Developed EJBs, JSPs and Java Components for the application using Eclipse.  • Implemented Struts framework in the presentation tier for all the essential control flow, business level validations and for communicating with the business layer.  • Developed various helper classes needed following Core Java multi-threaded programming and Collection classes.  • Involved in the understanding and designing of the complex back-end middleware framework.  • Used Java Servlets, JSPs, AJAX, HTML and CSS for developing the Web component of the application.  • Planned and implemented various Oracle Tables, stored Procedure, triggers, views, cursors.  • Involved in the analysis, definition, design, implementation and deployment of full software development life-cycle (SDLC) of the project.  • Participated in the technical code reviews, prepared.    Environment: Java 1.5, HTML 4, JavaScript, Hibernate 3.0, JBoss 5.0,JUnit, log4j, JMS, Apache Tomcat 6.0, XML, AJAX, SOAP, WSDL, UML, Oracle 10g Database, Shell Scripting. Education Master's in Finance in Finance Coventry University Skills ECLIPSE, EJB, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE