Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - Blue Cross Blue Shield ? Around 9 years of experience in Software analysis, Design, Development and Implementation. Involved in hands-on development using Java/J2EE technologies.  ? Expertise in application development frameworks like Struts, Spring, and Hibernate.  ? Expertise in Core Java with strong understanding and working knowledge of Object Oriented Concepts like Collections, Multi-Threading, concurrency framework.  ? Expert in UML, Design methodologies and design patterns  ? Expertise in developing front - end systems with JavaScript, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, MVC frameworks such as Angular JS as a platform for Web applications.  ? Experienced in using Pivotal Cloud Foundry to deploy Micro Service applications and provide Centralized configuration management for micro services using Spring Cloud Config Server.  ? Expertise in various open source frameworks like Struts 2.x, 1.x, Spring, JSF, Ext JS and ORM Technology like Hibernate 3.0.  ? Experience in the design and development of SOAP and RESTful web services, and integrating with the existing applications.  ? Expertise in Agile and Waterfall Software Development Methodology including Scrum and Test-Driven Development.  ? Having good knowledge of cloud-based infrastructure on AWS.  ? Extensive experience in writing complex PL/SQL queries.  ? Experience in build scripts for enterprise applications using ANT, Maven and Gradle.  ? Excellent communication and interpersonal skills. Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer Blue Cross Blue Shield - Chicago, IL May 2018 to Present Billing and payments is the application which provides Billing information that is retrieved from Facets and payments service is a utility that consumers will used to change payment preferences. This service has also the feature to perform submit Payment and review pending/Reject payments. The payment service also includes reinstatement of user account. This service will provide functional and data services required by all the Backend applications of Blue Cross Blue Shield of Illinois.  Responsibilities:    ? Involved in Analysis, Design, Development, UAT phases of the application.  ? Developed REST web services for implementing the business logic for different functionalities in the features that are developed.  ? Utilized CSS3, HTML5, JQuery, JavaScript and Angular JS 2.0 for the development of UI.  ? Designed and developed the REST based Microservices using the Spring Boot.  ? Refactored the code for JVM Optimization and performance of application using Jprofiles, concurrency API and multithreading.  ? Implemented J2EE standards, MVC architecture using Spring Framework.  ? Worked on Spring Core layer, Spring ORM, Spring AOP in developing the application components.  ? Developed the application using Eclipse IDE and worked under Agile Environment.  ? Used JPA with Hibernate provider and implemented business logic components.  ? Developed complex queries, stored procedures, triggers, functions and sequences.  ? Implemented logger for debugging using Log4j  ? Wrote Junit and JMockito test cases for unit testing and followed TDD approach  ? Actively participated in the daily scrum meetings and bi-weekly retro meetings for knowledge sharing.  ? Used Jenkins as integration tool and Maven build tool and deployed into Web Sphere 8.5.  ? Used Git for version control.  ? Served as POC for on call support in the production team on a rotation basis.    Environment: Java 1.8, CSS 3, HTML 5, Spring 4.0, JPA, Hibernate 4.2, Spring Boot, Maven 3.0, Log4J, JavaScript, JUnit, My SQL, Github, Oracle 12c, Angular 2.0, REST Web Services, Jenkins, JUNIT 4.0, IBM WebSphere 8.5. Full Stack Java Developer Master Card - O'Fallon, MO June 2016 to April 2018 Donation platform provides ability for the cardholders to sign-up to a program where make small donation to the charities every time they make transaction using the master card.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in all the phases of SDLC including Requirements Collection, Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications and Development of the Application.  ? Participated in JAD sessions gathering along with the Business Analysts and have expertise in implementing the Agile methodology.  ? Developed the UI screens using HTML5, CSS3, Angular JS & Jquery.  ? Using AngularJS as the development framework to build a single-page application.  ? Implemented the project as a multi-tier application using Spring MVC & used core Spring concepts like AOP, IOC.  ? Used Hibernate to improve the application throughput, and created the mappings to fit the existing table structure.  ? Extensively worked on both consumption & producing of RESTful based webservices using JAX-RS & jersey parsers.  ? Designed the application using Micro-services Architecture (based on Spring Boot) and Angular framework.  ? Applied various j2ee design patterns such as Front Controller, Factory, Singleton, Business Delegate, Session Façade, Service Locator, DAO etc. throughout the application for a clear and manageable distribution of roles.  ? Implemented the order grouping module using heavy multi-threading concepts  ? Involved in performance tuning of application, monitoring the end of day load and application behavior using JProfiler.  ? Wrote Stored Procedures and complex queries in Oracle 11g database.  ? Designed and developed JUnit test cases during the development phase.  ? Used Bamboo for continuous integration and Maven for building the EAR file.  ? Used CVS for efficiently managing the source code versions with the development team.  ? Served as POC for on call support in the production team on a rotation basis.    Environment: Java 1.7, Oracle 10g, PL/SQL, Spring 3.0, HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, Angular JS 2.0, Maven, Linux VMs, Selenium, Test NG, JMockito, Weblogic 12, Hibernate 3.0, Bamboo Java Developer AT&T - Dallas, TX November 2013 to May 2016 AT&T's Hosting and Application Services deliver a range of hosting and management capabilities that provide organizations with a global, secure network infrastructure and managed hosting services. Designed to support business applications with leading technologies, high-performing facilities, comprehensive capabilities and the leading-industry customer portal, AT&T's expansive portfolio includes security, storage, intelligent content distribution, load balancing, multiple-carrier failover IP connectivity, utility computing and virtual services offerings, professional services, VPN and data networking integration and more.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in analysis, design and development and testing phases of SDLC using Agile Methodology.  ? Involved in implementation of the presentation layer (GUI) for application using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, JQuery and Angular JS.  ? Used Spring MVC framework to enable the interactions between JSP/view layer and implemented different design patterns with J2EE and XML technology.  ? Using Spring Framework implemented dependency injection, Action classes through Application Context XML and initialized managed beans and services.  ? Designed and developed REST/HTTP APIs, including JSON data formats and API versioning strategy.  ? Used Swagger and YAML for documenting the REST API's.  ? Created and consumed SOAP Web Services using Axis 2.0.  ? For reporting, logging and Transactions purposes used Spring AOP.  ? Developed persistence layer Data access objects using DAO pattern, JDBC, Hibernate.  ? Designed Hibernate mapping files based on business logic and Object relationships.  ? Deployed the application on WebSphere application server.  ? Implemented the application using Spring Boot and Microservices.  ? Develop SQL and PL/SQL scripts to transfer tables across the schemas and databases.  ? Focused on Test Driven Development thereby creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality before writing the functionality.  ? Used Jenkins for continuous integration.  ? Analyzed the Maven dependency management in base code to annotate the dependencies on to Spring Boot application in to Gradle for Micro Services.    Environment: Java 1.6, Spring 3.0, Hibernate 3.0, Angular JS, JQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Websphere 8.0, SVN, Eclipse, Windows, Junit, Selenium Jenkins. Web/ Java Developer Infolyte IT Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana October 2009 to October 2013 Generic System - Generic Workflow is a single end-to-end system, which is used to track documents that are received for each and every line of business. This system is used track/publish reports. It is mainly developed to cater to all healthcare & non-health care line of business specific requirements in the BPO industry.  Responsibilities:    ? Designed and Implemented User Interface (UI) for General information pages, Administrator functionality.  ? Pages and internal administration interface.  ? Front end design using JSP and business logic in Servlets.  ? Analysis, design and development of Application using J2EE technologies like JSP, Servlets, and EJB.  ? Developed the database and UI design for the web module.  ? Built prototypes of complex modules and analyzed the performance.  ? Developed EJBs, JSPs and Java Components for the application using Eclipse.  ? Implemented Struts framework in the presentation tier for all the essential control flow, business level validations and for communicating with the business layer.  ? Developed various helper classes needed following Core Java multi-threaded programming and Collection classes.  ? Used Java Servlets, JSPs, AJAX, HTML and CSS for developing the Web component of the application.  ? Planned and implemented various Oracle Tables, stored Procedure, triggers, views, cursors.  ? Involved in the analysis, definition, design, implementation and deployment of full software development life-cycle (SDLC) of the project.  ? Participated in the technical code reviews, prepared unit test cases, detailed time estimation, impact analysis and code review documents.    Environment: Java 1.5, Struts 1.2, Hibernate, EJB, WebLogic Server 8.1, HTML, CSS, JUnit, JSP, Servlets, Oracle 9i, Windows XP, MVC Pattern, SVN, Log4J. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Mechanical in Mechanical S.V University. 2001 Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Intellij idea, Spring, Jax, Jaxb, Jax-ws, Jboss, jquery, Jsf, Jsp, Jstl, Servlets, Struts, Junit, Selenium, Testng Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages  Java 1.8/1.7/16. /1.5. J2EE, Servlets 2.5/2.4, JSP, JDBC 3.0, JSON, Ajax, JDBC, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS 3, Bootstrap, JSF, XML, XSD, XSLT, XPATH, SQL, PL/SQL, WSDL, JUnit, Regular Expressions.    Frameworks/ORM Spring 4.0, Hibernate 4.2, Struts 2.0,  Web Technologies/J2EE JSP2.2/2.1, EJB 3.0, Jquery 2.1, JSTL 1.2, AJAX, XML, JavaScript, Angular JS 4.X/2.X, EXT JS, HTML5, CSS3, JSON, XSLT.  IDE's Eclipse, My Eclipse, NetBeans, IntelliJ IDEA, Spring Tool Suite (STS).  Databases Oracle 12c/11g/10g, MySQL 5.0/4.1, SQL Server  Web Services RESTful web service, SOAP, WSDL, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, JAXB.  Version control/Build Tools Git, SVN, CVS, Clear Case, Jenkins, Maven 3.0, Ant.  Testing Tools JUnit, TestNG, Selenium, Mockito.  Web/Application Servers WebLogic 10.0/9.0/8.0, Tomcat 7/6, JBOSS 7.x/5.x, Web sphere 8.5  Operating Systems Windows 10/8/7/NT/XP/2000/98, Unix, Linux