Application Support Engineer Application Support Engineer Java Engineer - AT&T Seattle, WA • Java/J2EE Application Engineer with 4+ years of experience in software development lifecycle including Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing.  • Currently working as Application Support Engineer with Amazon Treasure Truck team.  • Extensive Experience in working with J2EE (Core Java, JSP, Servlets, Java Beans), AWS (EC2, DynamoDB,S3,RDS ,Redshift ) ,HTML, Hibernate, Spring, Struts 1.2, SOAP and Restful Web services  • Worked on Application Servers like Apache Tomcat and Karaf.  • Well versed with complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) process which includes analysis, designing, developing, testing, implementing and documenting the entire life cycle using various methodologies like Waterfall and Agile.  • Exposure to complete SDLC and extensive experience in Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC).  • Very strong CS fundamentals including algorithm design, data structures.  • Sound understanding in mapping business requirements to technical solutions, documentation, development and testing.  • Experienced in Retail ,Banking, Financial, Energy and Utility domain.  • Strong experience in working with databases like MySQL and Oracle.  • Experience in using SQL to write Complex Queries.  • Expertise in using version controls like CVS, SVN and GitHub  • Extensive work experience with JUnit for performing Unit Testing.  • Developed applications based on Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture.  • Expertise in using Design Patterns like MVC, Factory, and other J2EE design patterns.  • Proficient in Functional, Regression and System Integration (SIT) Testing.  • Worked on SOAP and RESTful Web Services.  • Developed Java applications in IDEs including IntelliJ and Eclipse.  • Functional knowledge of Java script, JQuery and Angular JS.  • Functional knowledge in implementation of AWS Cloud based technologies like Elastic Servers, EC2 Instance and S3.  • Functional knowledge in Hadoop.  • Experience in building applications using ANT and Maven.  • Fast adaptability on new platforms and languages.  • Working Knowledge of other programming languages like C,C++ and Markup Languages like XML, HTML 5 and CSS.  • Designed the automated test cases using the Selenium Web Driver inside the Eclipse IDE using Java.  • Experience developing test automation (unit, functional, and integrated).  • Experience developing or working with commercial or open source automation tools and frameworks  • Demonstrate test management processes and technical skills, including an understanding of manual and automated test execution and performance related tools  • Demonstrate knowledge using version control and defect tracking methods.  • Extensive experience in developing unit testing frameworks using Junit and manual testing.  • Conceptual thinker, results oriented, creative, thorough, initiative, technical, pragmatic, Proactive, analytic/ systematic thinking, excellent written and verbal communication skills, great problem-solving skills, able to identify and justify the optimum solution. Work Experience Application Support Engineer Amazon.com Services - Seattle, WA December 2018 to Present 1)    Applications Engineer  Amazon.com Services, Seattle, WA     Responsibilities:   ·      Develop automation to support the Treasure Truck business.  ·      Build tools, publish metrics, and build inventory dashboards to provide transparency to the business.  ·      Support engineering and troubleshooting on issues related to Treasure truck application.  ·      Worked on maintenance driven coding projects, primarily in Python and Java based projects.  ·      System and Support status reporting.     Environment                :           Java, Python,AWS EC2 ,S3 ,DynamoDB  Duration                      :         Dec 2018 to present Java Developer AT&T - Bothell, WA February 2017 to December 2017 Environment: Java, Apache Karaf,Rest API,Eclipse ,Rally ,HP QC, Log4j, SVN    Combined Cart Checkout (CCC) application has been developed at AT&T to serve the business need of combining checkouts for wireless and wireline. This specific project focused on migrating the combined checkout application from Oracle ATG framework to Apache Karaf.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on CCC application migration from Oracle ATG framework to Apache Karaf  • Involved in the development of Rest API.  • Deployed project in Apache Karaf container.  • Debugging the code using Karaf and eclipse.  • Used Rally for user stories.  • Used AGILE Methodology to accommodate changing customer needs, quick release deliveries, accommodate field issues and provide daily updates through scrum meetings.  • Used HP QC for defect tracking. Coordinated with QA team to fix the defects.  • Used Log4J for logging and analyzing system performance and flow. Involved in code refactoring and bug fixing.    3) Java/J2EE Project Engineer  Wipro Technologies, Bangalore, India    Project: CMS Module Java/J2EE Developer RWE nPower December 2012 to November 2013 Environment: J2EE 1.4 (Core Java, JSP, Servlets), Spring, MySQL,UC4,JUnit, Eclipse, Apache Tomcat, Log4j, SVN    RWE nPower is a leading electricity and gas supplier to homes and businesses. Its energy services business provides servicing and repair of boilers and central heating systems through its home team brand.  Complaint Management System in nPower became the popular productivity enhancement tool within the organization, with the process of booking complaints via operators and analysis of complaints which are made or are pending. MS allows a booking operator to book and lodge complaints and automatically schedules and prompts operators to source complaint to concerned departments. Automated Complaint Processing system extracts communicative actions and their subjects and classifies a complaint as valid or invalid (submitted due to a customer misunderstanding, bad mood or other unrelated issues).    Responsibilities:  • Analyzed the requirements provided by business team and involved in designing the technical specification documents.  • Involved in system analysis and design methodology as well as object oriented design.  • Involved in development and unit testing of CMS module.  • Used AGILE Methodology to accommodate changing customer needs, quick release deliveries, accommodate field issues and provide daily updates through scrum meetings.  • Used Spring MVC framework for Development.  • Developed presentation layer using JSP, HTML, XML and CSS.  • Integrated Hibernate with Spring and used hibernate for loading and storing objects.  • Used Eclipse as the Development IDE and Tomcat as the application Server  • Used UC4 for creating and batch jobs  • Log4j was used for logging.  • Documented the system and server setup process.  • Done Functional Testing and participated in UAT activities.  • Coordinated with QA team to fix the defects.  • Incident Management, Problem Management, Monitoring and Maintenance, Defect fixing, small enhancements/projects.    4) Java/J2EE Project Engineer  Wipro Technologies, Bangalore, India    Project: PMIS Java/J2EE Developer Wipro Technologies - Bengaluru, Karnataka February 2012 to December 2012 Environment: J2EE 1.4 (Core Java, JSP, Servlets), Spring, MySQL, Eclipse, Apache  Tomcat, Log4j, Junit, IBM Rational Functional Tester    This project was for the development of online project management tool. Several projects that come up were first sent for approval to PMO and a manager was assigned. After assigning the manager, all required documents/ templates were uploaded and the division of project into Initiation, Planning, Implementation, Monitoring and Controlling and Termination phases was done. Monitoring and controlling phase lasted throughout the project and any deviation from the standard baseline would trigger an alert to the manager and the project would be suspended until it was approved by the manager.  Responsibilities:  • Gathered requirements, analyzed, designed and coded for a web based tool used for project Management.  • Involved in system analysis and design methodology as well as object oriented design.  • Designed and developed business layer using Spring Framework.  • Used Spring MVC and Spring JDBC modules for the development process.  • Designed the automated test cases using the Selenium Web Driver inside the Eclipse IDE using Java.  • Used Log4j Logger for all logging purposes.  • Performed backend testing using SQL queries to retrieve and verify information in the database.  • Responsible for Planning, creating and analysis of Test Plan, Test cases and Test Script.  • Written complex queries in SQL for retrieving, inserting and changing data in database.  • Used detailed knowledge of application features and functions assess scope and impact of business needs throughout analysis and completion of all enhancement specifications.  • Defect tracking and fast fixing of bugs using Bugzilla.  • Applied design patterns including MVC pattern and Factory Design Pattern.  • Used Eclipse as the development IDE and Apache Tomcat as the Application Server.  • Responsible for User and Technical Documentation of the System.  • Created unit test cases using JUnit for the project.  • Used IBM Rational Functional Tester for Regression Testing.    5) Java/J2EE Project Engineer  Wipro Technologies, Bangalore, India    Project: Corporate and Investment Banking Solutions Java Developer Standard Bank of SA May 2010 to February 2012 Environment: Java, Spring MVC, Spring JDBC,SQL, UNIX, Oracle11g, Postilion, Ciboodle, Eclipse, Apache Tomcat, Selenium,BMC Remedy, JIRA    Standard Bank of SA is a leading banking group focused on emerging markets globally. The Corporate and Investment Banking division provides banking, finance, trading, investment, risk management and advisory services to larger corporate, financial institutions and international parties in developing economies around the world. The scope of this project is to enhance, maintain and support 135 applications spread across 6 portfolios namely Business Operations (core banking), Vehicle and Asset Finance, Credit systems, Self Service Channels, Home Loans and Cards portfolios. These applications were developed in different technologies like Mainframes and Java.  Responsibilities:  • Develop and Design CR solution framework to deliver the plan within agreed timeframes and scope.  • Used Spring MVC and Hibernate modules for the development process.  • Used Struts for enhancement of IB module.  • Written JUnit test script for testing the source code.  • Written complex queries in SQL for retrieving, inserting and changing data in database.  • Defect tracking and fast fixing of bugs using BMC Remedy.  • Applied design patterns including MVC pattern and Factory Design Pattern.  • Used Eclipse as the development IDE and Apache Tomcat and Glassfish as the Application Server.  • Coordinated with QA team to fix the defects.  • Created technical design documents for enhancements.  • Worked on consuming and producing RESTful web services  • Used JAX-WS and JAX-RS for building of Web Services.  • Tested the web services using SOAP UI. Education Bachelors of Technology in Score Anna University June 2005 to June 2009 Skills ECLIPSE, EJB, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, jQuery, JSP, SERVLETS, STRUTS, APACHE, LINUX, UNIX, APPLICATION SERVER, DESIGN PATTERNS, HTML, SVN, XML, BUGZILLA, JIRA, MYSQL, Git, Javascript Additional Information Technical Skills:    Technologies J2EE (Core Java, EJB, JSP, Servlets) , JDBC,Log4j, AWS (EC2 ,S3,DynamoDB,RDS,Redshift )  Frameworks and Tools Hibernate, Spring , Struts 1.2  Application Server Apache Tomcat , Karaf  IDE Tools Eclipse, IntelliJ,Net Beans  Design Patterns MVC, Factory Pattern and other J2EE design patterns  RDBMS MySQL ,Oracle 11g  Web Technologies HTML, XML, CSS, Java script, JQuery and Angular JS.  Testing tools Junit , SOAP UI , IBM Rational Functional Tester  Test Management tools Testlink , JIRA  Defect management Tool BMC Remedy , Bugzilla, HP QC  Version Control Tools CVS ,SVN , GitHub  Automation Tools Selenium IDE  Scheduling tool UC4  Office Tools MS-OFFICE  Operating Systems Windows ,Unix, Linux