Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - United HealthCare Hartford, CT • Experienced Java/J2EE professional with extensive back ground in Software Development and Testing Life Cycle.  • Over 6+ years of experience in designing and developing enterprise level multi-tier and Single-page web Applications in UN agency, Banking and Retail domains.  • Experience in utilizing open-source frameworks such as AngularJS, NodeJS, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, JSF and Jquery.  • Experience in consuming RESTful services using Angular $http, $resource and jQuery to exchange (request / responses) information with databases such as Oracle and MySQL.  • Experience in developing web applications using Java/J2EE, JSP, Servlets, EJB, JDBC, Spring, Struts, JSF, Hibernate, Web Services and XML.  • Expertise in SOA, Web Services (CXF, XML Beans), Apache Camel and XML technologies (XSLT, Xpath).  • Proven software development experience using different methodologies - Agile, Waterfall and TDD.  • Experienced in MEAN stack development (MongoDB, Express.JS, Angular.JS & Node.JS).  • Hands-on experience in relational databases like Oracle 11g, MySQL, MS SQL Server using SQL, PL/SQL programming and NoSQL database Mongo DB.  • Strong experience in deploying J2EE components on JBOSS, Apache Tomcat, BEA WebLogic, and IBM WebSphere application servers, good exposure to cloud computing with Amazon Web Services(AWS).  • Thorough knowledge of Web technologies: XML, WML, SAX/DOM Parser, AJAX, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and JavaScript.  • Strong experience on various Java Design Patterns such as Session Façade, DAO, DTO, Delegate, Front Controller, Factory, Business Object, Prototype and Singleton.  • Proficient in integration of Enterprise Java Beans (EJB) with existing applications and using services provided in distributed applications through Web Services (JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, JAX-RS).  • Extensive development experience on different IDE's like Eclipse, IBM Rational Application Developer, WebSphere Integration Developer and NetBeans.  • Test Driven Programmer with thorough knowledge in Unit testing with JUnit, Mockito and using SoapUI, Postman for Web Service testing, performance testing with JMeter and automated testing with Test Driven Development (TDD) in Extreme Programming model.  • Experience in AWS Solutions using EC2, S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Dynamo DB and Autoscaling Groups.  • Experience with GitHub and AEM and container orchestration like Kubernetes.  • Strong QA Automation experience with Selenium Webdriver, Jbehive and Cucumber.  • Expert in coding using core java concepts like multithreading, collections, serialization, synchronization, exception handling and database connections.  • Experienced in writing complex Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views and triggers with major databases such as Oracle, DB2 and MySQL.  • Experienced in database GUI/IDE Tools using TOAD, DB Visualizer and MySQL Client.  • Strong experience working with version control software like TFS, CVS, ClearCase, Apache SubVersion, GIT and build tools ANT, Maven, Gradle and Jenkins.  • Good working experience in operating systems like UNIX, Solaris and Windows.  • Skilled and experienced in co-coordinating efforts among multiple teams (on-site and off-shore and third parties).  • Experience in handling/executing projects using Agile methodologies (SCRUM) along with Test Driven Development techniques. Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer United HealthCare - Hartford, CT August 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed the single page application following Agile Scrum, participated in daily standups, sprint reviews, Kickoffs and used Jira for project management.  • Responsible for requirements analysis, technical design, implementation and testing according to Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC).  • Involved in designing UML and Sequence Diagrams using Microsoft Visio to model the detail design of the application.  • Used Microservices architecture with Spring boot to develop REST based Web Services with minimal configuration  • Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Development of Cloud deployed applications  • Implemented DAO layer using JPA (Hibernate framework) to interact with database.  • Designed and developed web pages using HTML, JSP, JavaScript and XSLT, involved in writing new JSPs, designed pages using HTML and client validation using JavaScript and jQuery.  • Developed single page applications using Angular, Typescript, HTML5, CSS3, and Bootstrap.  • Moved the project to Java 8 to extensively use Lambda expressions and have better connectivity to Cloud in addition adding Spring Boot Libraries and UI Enhancement.  • Extensively used Core Java API, Spring API in developing the business logic.  • All the functionality is implemented using Spring IOC, Spring Boot and Hibernate ORM.  • Implemented Java EE components using Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring transactions and Spring security models.  • Designed and Developed Representational state transfer (REST) based services and Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) based services as part of the requirement.  • Implemented REST Microservices using spring boot. Generated Metrics with method level granularity and Persistence using Spring AOP and Spring Actuator.  • Used spring config server for centralized configuration and Splunk for centralized logging. Used Concourse and Jenkins for Microservices deployment.  • Experience in Automation testing using Selenium Web Driver, JUnit and Maven.  • Responsible for overall Docker & Kubernetes setup, configuration and Architecture.  • Integration and configuration of Amazon Web Services (AWS) with applications infrastructure.  • Involved in writing Spring configuration XML file that contains declarations and business classes are wired up to frontend managed beans using IOC pattern.  • Virtualized the servers using Docker for the test environments and dev-environments needs, also configuration automation using Docker containers.  • Images/data is stored on Amazon S3 buckets and rendered using lambda functions.  • Configured and maintained a large-scale Docker based PaaS environment using Kubernetes.  • Virtualized the servers using Docker for the test environments and dev-environments needs, also configuration automation using Docker containers.  • Design/Implement large scale pub-sub message queues using Apache Kafka  • Implemented all the components following test-driven development methodology using JUnit.  • Used Maven for build framework and Jenkins for continuous build system.  • Used Version one as the product management tool to complete stories and fix/log defects.  • Used Log4J 2.8.2 as the logging framework to print information, warning and exception data to the logs.  • Fixed and tracked defects using Version One as the product management tool effectively.    Environment: Java 1.8, J2EE, Hibernate 4.3, Spring 4.x , Spring Boot, Microservices, JSP, Servlets 2.2, JavaScript/jQuery, Maven, Angular, Log4J, REST, SOAP, WSDL, HTML5, XML, XSLT, Jenkins, SVN, Oracle 9i, Unix, Bootstrap 2.1, Amazon Web services (AWS), EC2, Junit, EasyMock, Log4J, Docker, Kubernetes, SoapUI, Postman, Git, SQL, HQL, Oracle SQL, Microsoft Visio, Kafka. Full Stack Java Developer Mastercard - St. Louis, MO October 2017 to July 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development, and Testing of the application using AGILE methodology (SCRUM).  • Developed the web interface using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, and Bootstrap.  • Designed Java Components and integrated using Spring framework with Hibernate Object/Relational persistence mechanism.  • Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML file that contains declarations and business classes are wired-up to the frontend managed beans using Spring IOC pattern.  • Implemented the application using Spring IOC, Spring MVC Framework, and Spring Batch and handled the security using Spring Security.  • Involved in installing, upgrading, configuring and Troubleshooting IBMWeb Sphere Application Server and IBM MQ on AIX and Linux.  • Used Web Services for transmission of large blocks of XML data using SOAP.  • Tested the application functionality with JUnit Test Cases.  • Identified and fixed various production issues related to IBM MQ server on Linux, UNIX,and Windows system.  • Involved in integrating JAX-RS into Spring Boot application.  • Implemented Microservices using Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Spring Microservices. Deployed the Docker image of services building Docker file and build a continuous delivery pipeline for containers using AWS Code Pipeline and Amazon ECS.  • Implemented Restful Web Services to retrieve data from client side using Microservices architecture.  • Designed and developed DAO layer with Hibernate standards, to access data from SQL Server.  • Created SQL Server logins and assigning roles and Authentication models as a part of Security.  • Used multithreading in programming to improve overall performance using Singleton design pattern in Hibernate Utility class.  • Designed, built and deployed application using the AWS stack (Including EC2, Mongo DB, Docker, Kubernetes Orchestration container (EKS) focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance and auto-scaling.  • Developed the persistence layer using Hibernate Framework, created the POJO objects and mapped using Hibernate annotations and Transaction Management.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking, issue tracking, and project management.  • Used GIT as source control management giving a huge speed advantage on centralized systems that must communicate with a server.    Environment: Java, Agile Methodology, Microservices, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Drools, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Spring Batch, Spring Security, HTML5, CSS3, Node.js, Bootstrap, AngularJS, JSTL, jQuery, AJAX, AWS EC2, S3, Hibernate, Restful API, JIRA, RabbitMQ, MAVEN, JUnit, Log4J, GIT. Java/J2EE Developer Computer Sciences Corporation - Columbia, MD April 2015 to September 2017 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements from the client business unit by participating in design discussions and implementation feasibility analysis with business analysts at all levels.  • Worked on SOA to develop RESTful Web service to generate and consume services from different modules. Implemented MVC Framework to make single page applications [SPAs] for responsive services.  • Developed the application using JSF Spring Framework that uses Model View Controller (MVC) architecture with JSP as the view and JQuery validation framework for front end validations.  • Used MVC frameworks like Spring MVC along with JSF and Rich faces. Involved in developing front end screens using JSF, JSTL, JQuery, XHTML, HTML5, CSS, AJAX and JavaScript. Also, involved in adding the Internationalization to the existing application.  • Used Spring ORM Support for Hibernate to manage Hibernate Resources and consistent exception hierarchy. Integrated Spring DAO for data access using with Hibernate and Spring Validation Framework for Server side validation.  • Used Spring MVC, Spring ORM and Spring Security modules to integrate with MySQL database to implement persistence layer in Hibernate.  • Developed Business components using core java concepts like Interfaces, Polymorphism, Collections, Serialization etc. Used multithreading concepts to overcome errors in the process of concurrent quote transactions. Deployed the application in clustered environments for load balancing and Server failover conditions.  • Designed stored procedures, triggers and functions in MySQL and DB2 for business critical requirements. Created E-R graphs and relationships among different database and creation tables with low coupling.  • Developed generic database Connection Pooling with WebLogic Admin server using Spring, SQL query optimization.  • Developed objects using JMS API for asynchronous communication and used JMS-MQ bridge as provider to send messages in a secure, reliable and asynchronous method.  • Involved in performing Unit and Integration testing (JUnit). Strictly followed TDD using Agile methodologies.  • Used Apache JMeter for load testing and log4J for debugging with various levels. Used Subversion for version control across common source code used by developers and deployed the applications on WebLogic Application Server. Utilized Gradle for continuous integration.    Environment: Java 1.6, J2EE, JSP, JSF, JSTL, Servlets, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Security, MySQL, SQL, MySQL, DB2, WebLogic Application Server, JMS, XML, JavaScript, JQuery, SOAP, UML, SVN, JUnit, Log4J, Gradle, TDD, JMeter. Java/J2EE Developer Netsmartz House - Chandigarh, Chandigarh June 2014 to March 2015 Responsibilities:  • Used OOAD for building applications. Involved in gathering business requirements, analyzing the project and creating use Cases and Class Diagrams.  • Created sequence diagrams, collaboration diagrams, class diagrams, usecases and activity diagrams using Rational Rose for the Configuration, Cache & logging Services.  • Designed and developed the project using MVC design pattern and developed front end using Spring MVC framework, business components using Spring.  • Developed Spring MVC validators to perform server side business object validations.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries, Spring Tag libraries and Java Script to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Developed RESTful API with Spring Framework for benchmarking purposes.  • Implemented Spring framework in the presentation tier for all the essential control flow, business level validations and for communicating with the business layer.  • Worked on Spring Web Flow on Spring MVC to build an application from scratch using Spring XML configurations, annotations. Wrote controllers to handle incoming requests and send output to the UI Configured.  • Used JSP, JavaScript, JSTL, EL, Custom Tag libraries, Tiles, Interceptors, and Validations provided by Spring framework.  • Wrote authentication and authorization classes and manage it in the front controller for all the users according to their entitlements using Spring security.  • Implemented caching techniques, wrote POJO classes for storing data and DAO's to retrieve the data and did other database configurations using Spring.  • Developed SOAP based Web Services for Integrating with the Enterprise Information System Tier.  • Involved in setting up Jenkins for continuous integration and continuous builds by polling the repositories.    Environment: Java/J2SE 1.5, JSP, Servlets, JAXB, XSLT, DOM, XML, Spring 3.0, Web Services, JNDI, J2EE, RSA, JBoss6.0, Rational Rose, Spring, CVS, XML, Log4J, Oracle9i, gradle, Junit, Jenkins, Junit, Rational Rose, JavaScript, DHTML. Java Developer 4SquareLogic - Jalandhar, Punjab April 2013 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in complete SDLC management - Requirements gathering, Design, Analysis, Development and Testing  • Developed UML diagrams to develop use cases for University's Financial Services web application.  • Implementing the Struts 1.3 framework for Model View Controller (MVC) pattern.  • Used Struts framework along with JSP, Servlets, HTML, CSS, JQuery and JavaScript to construct dynamic web pages.  • Performed validation for client side as well as server side with the help of Struts Validation Frame Work.  • Involved in the implementation of Stateless session beans (EJB) for business logic layer and Entity beans for persistence.  • Supported existing applications developed using Spring MVC, AOP framework.  • Used JPA mapping techniques such as One to One, Many to One and Many to Many mappings to represent relation between various entities in the project.  • Configured and used JBoss application server for creating Datasource and enabling JNDI for beans and database lookups.  • Deployed components on JBoss and Web Sphere application server.  • Worked Oracle database to create databases of student and faculty login information and their desired areas of study.  • Developed codes for ActionServlet, RequestProcessor and Action classes by extending Struts package.  • Used EJB 3.0 Message Drive Beans to initiate daily process.  • Executed quality and assurance testing in developed application, reduced performance errors on average by 95%.  • Resolved Blackboard problem tickets and made 100% follow ups maximizing the customer satisfaction.  • Installed SSL certificates on the developed application.  • Provided weekly status reports to the manager with the latest information of all ongoing activities.  • Followed the Java coding standards for scalability, reusability and ease of maintenance.    Environment: Java 1.5, TDD, Struts 1.3, EJB 3.0, Jquery, JSP, HTML, CSS, Servlets, SOAP, WS-Security, JMS, MQ, Eclipse, SVN, Ajax, JNDI, JBoss, Selenium WebDriver, Junit. Education Master's Skills ECLIPSE, EJB, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, JAX, JAX-WS, JBOSS, JMS, JNDI, jQuery, JSF, JSP, JTA, RMI, SERVLET, STRUTS, WSAD, APPLICATION SERVER Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages: Java/J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, Perl, UML, XML, XSL, XSLT, jQuery  J2EE Standards: JDBC, JNDI, Java Mail, JTA  Web Technologies: JSP, Servlet, JAX-WS, AXIS, REST (JAX-RS), SOA, SOAP, JMS, Bootstrap, EJB, Angular-JS, RMI, IBM MQ Series  Databases: Oracle, MySQL, Sybase, SQL-Server-2008, Mongo-DB  IDE's: Eclipse, NetBeans, Intellij, Sublime, Brackets, RAD, WSAD  Web/App Servers: WebSphere Application Server, WebLogic, JBoss, Apache Tomcat  Frameworks: Struts, Spring, Spring Boot, JSF, Hibernate, Apache Camel  Operating Systems: Windows, UNIX, Solaris, Red Hat, AIX  Version Control Tools: CVS, SVN, Git, ClearCase  Tools/Utilities: Log4j, Ant, JUnit, Caliber, Maven, Gradle 2.1, Jenkins, SOAPUi, AWS.  Methodologies: Agile (Scrum, TDD), Waterfall