Senior Software Developer Senior Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer - MVC, Factory Texas City, TX ? Over 5+ years of IT experience in analysis, design, development and implementation.  ? Extensive experience with Java EE - JSP, EJB, Servlets, JMS, JDBC and Java EE design patterns- MVC, Singleton, Session Facade, Service Locator, Visitor, Observer, Decorator, Front Controller, Data Access Object.  ? Experience in building applications using various technologies like Java, Spring, Struts, JSF, Hibernate, JSP, JavaScript and XML.  ? Expert level skills on jQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, GWT, JSON, HTML 5, DHTML, CSS, Tiles, Tag Libraries. Used Core Java Concepts based on Multithreading, concurrency.  ? Hands-on experience with Spring AOP, Spring Transactions, Spring Security, Spring Quartz batch jobs. Used Executor Framework to deal with Java Multi-threads.  ? Used Version Control like CVS, SVN (Subversion) and ClearCase. Strong experience in test driven development, particularly using JUnit framework. Worked in Agile/SCRUM and Waterfall development methodology.  ? Hands-on experience with build tools like ANT, Maven and logging tools like Log4J.  ? Expertise in testing with Junit using tools like JMeter.  ? Experience in Jenkins integration service for software development.  ? Developing scripts for build, deployment, maintenance and related tasks using Jenkins, Docker, Maven and Bash.  ? Experience with front-end frameworks - Twitter Bootstrap, Materialize CSS, jQuery Mobile.  ? Deep knowledge in Angular and Experience in developing single page applications using AngularJS, Angular 5/6 and React JS.  ? Hands on experience on apache and Cloudera Hadoop environments.  ? Compare the xml response with the response obtained from mainframe and show the result in a Jface tree viewer.Very good with numbers, and algorithms and data structures.  ? Good Knowledge on algorithms and data structures.  ? Experience in creating rules using Business Rules Engines: Drools, ILOG.  ? Proven experience in writing Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Functions and Packages using TOAD.  ? Experience in database modeling, design and development of PL/SQL stored procedures, packages in relational databases: Oracle 9i/10g, IBM DB2, MySQL, Sybase, SQL Server 2000.  ? Knowledge on HBASE, Cassandra, MongoDB database as part of Open Source participation.  ? Expertise in debugging and troubleshooting existing code using Firebug and Developer Tools. Smoke Test and Acceptance Testing with Selenium in multiple Java and JavaScript platforms.  ? Experience in mentoring junior developers & troubleshooting. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Software Developer MVC, Factory - Fort Worth, TX December 2018 to Present Responsibilities:    ? Designing and developing code using the Java EE platform. Extensively using MVC, Factory, Delegate and Singleton design patterns.  ? Implementing SOA to develop REST based Web services using Apache Axis.  ? Using Hibernate framework for back end development and Spring dependency injection for middle layer development and Using Spring Framework AOP Module to implement logging in the application to know the application status.  ? Integrated application with Spring Security for authorization.  ? Created a view using Jface tree viewer with drag and drop capability to show the worklist of different Engineering users.  ? Removed duplicates in the J face tree viewer. Used Eclipse Contexts, Jface Actions and lot of anonymous classes.  ? Install, configure, test, monitor, upgrade, and tune new and existing PostgreSQL database  ? GUI designing using SWT/Jface. Writing unit tests using JUnit and integration testing.  ? Introducing and implementing Continuous Integration principles and practices for the Billing Development Team using Jenkins & JNLP Nodes,Sonarcube, HPFortify Subversion, VMWare, ClearQuest, JUnit, DBFit, FitNesse, Atlassian JIRA.  ? Developed UNIX Shell Scripts and PL/SQL procedures to import and export data.  ? Used ReactJS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  ? Worked on creation of custom Docker container images, tagging and pushing the images.  ? Configured an optimal Spring-Boot micro- service which exposes Cassandra NoSQL payload via JBoss RESTEasy platform and multiple Transaction Managers.  ? Used GIT repository for software configuration management and version control. Set up and administer other cloud-based services (JIRA, Confluence wiki, BitBucket Git repo).  ? Using XMLHttpRequest Object to provide asynchronous communication as part of AJAX and GWT implementation.  ? Monitoring the data loading jobs and tuning the SQL queries.  ? Designed and implemented a Node. js based mobile text and voice messaging app and its cloud backend.  ? Developing Ant and Maven scripts to automate the compilation, deployment, and testing of Web and J2EE applications.  Environment: J2EE, Spring framework, Spring MVC, Spring quartz, Drool, Jira, JDK/1.7, Hibernate 4.x, jQuery, JSON, JSF, Servlets 2.3, JDBC, AJAX, Jenkins, Web services, EJB, JMS, Cucumber, Selenium, SOAP, Java Beans, SOA, WSDL, JAXB, CICD, JSON, Apache POI, JavaScript, Oracle 11g, Eclipse, Web Sphere 8.x, Agile Methodology, Multi-Threading, Drools,Design Patterns, SVN, Apache Maven, Adobe Flex, JUnit, Html Unit, XSLT, HTML/DHTML. Sr. Java/ J2EE Developer Playmouth Rock - Boston, MA February 2017 to November 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Developed the J2EE application based on the Service Oriented Architecture.Developed using new features of Java 1.7 Annotations, Generics, enhanced for loop and Enums. Used Spring and Hibernate for implementing IOC, AOP and ORM for back end tiers.  ? Developing and editing user Interface Screens using JSP, HTML5.0, JavaScript and Node.js and Improve presentation of webpages CSS 3.0, Adobe Flash and JQuery plug - INS.  ? Designed SOA integration using Apache CXF. Enabled rapid service tier development.  ? Implemented the database connectivity using JDBC with Oracle 11g database as backend.  ? Fetched data from existing Oracle database to HBase using Sqoop and MapReduce.  ? Implemented Akka Clustering API, Backend system  ? Developed application by implementing the Single Page Application (SPA) using Angular ui-router.  ? Implemented complex back-end component to get the count in no time against large size MySQL database (about 4 crore rows) using Java multi-threading.Handled Java multi-threading part in back-end component, one thread will be running for each user, which serves that user.  ? Worked on Cross-browser Compatibility of UI pages. Implemented for internet browsers such as Chrome, Firefox, and IE 8/9/10/11.  ? Created and injected Spring services, Spring controllers and DAOs to achieve dependency injection and to wire objects of business classes. Used Spring Inheritance to develop beans from already developed parent beans.  ? Developed the back-end platform as Single Page Application using Angular framework  ? Developed Applications using Rule Engines, Drools. Explored Drools modules such as Drools Expert, DroolsFusion, and Drools Flow.  ? Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for a web application, page navigation using Angular 5/6  ? Used Hibernate Transaction Management, Hibernate Batch Transactions, and cache concepts.  ? Implemented a Scala based websocket and restful endpoint with Akka HTTP for pushing data to the frontend  ? Developed various generic JavaScript functions used for validation. Developed screens using jQuery, JSP, JavaScript, AJAX.  ? Used Hibernate framework for back end development and Spring dependency injection for middle layer development.  ? Working with Java libraries to access AWS facilities as Simple Storage Service. Worked with Web services components JAX-RS services and worked with Restful Web services interact with external systems.  ? Used Maven and Jenkins to automate the build and deploy process and SVN was used for project management and version management.  ? Instrumental in implementation and deployment of a Multi-tenant software as a service(SaaS).  ? Developed the presentation layer and GUI framework in JSP and Client-Side validations were done.  ? Smoke Test and Acceptance Testing with Selenium in multiple Java platforms. Familiar with Cucumber, Selenium Web Driver, Selenium commands and x-path.  ? Designed and developed websites/pages in Adobe CQ/AEM by implementing the responsive Design.  ? Created user-friendly GUI interface and Web pages using HTML, JQuery and Java script.    Environment: J2EE, Spring framework, Spring MVC, Hibernate 3.x, jQuery, JSON, JSF, Servlets 2.3, JDBC, AJAX, Jenkins, Multi- Threading, Web services, SOAP, XML, SaaS, Java Beans, X Stream, Net Tool, Apache CXF 2.6, Apache POI, jQuery, JavaScript, Drools, Oracle 10g, IBM RAD, WebSphere 7.0(WAS LIBERTY), Design Patterns, SVN, Apache Maven, JUnit, HTML Unit, XSLT, HTML/DHTML. Java Developer Orange Business Services May 2014 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the Requirements collection & Analysis from the business team.  ? Created the design documents with use case diagram, class diagrams, and sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  ? Implemented the MVC architecture using Apache Struts1.2 Framework.  ? Implemented Action Classes and server-side validations for account activity, payment history and Transactions.  ? Implemented views using Struts tags, JSTL2.0 and Expression Language.  ? Implemented Tiles Framework for the view's layout.  ? Implemented session beans to handle business logic for fund transfer, loan, credit card & fixed deposit modules.  ? Worked with JAXB, SAXP and XML Schema for exporting data into XML format and importing data from XML format to data base and JAXB in the web service's request response data marshalling as well as marshaling process.  ? Implemented the web services client to consume the third-party service API for validating credit cards. Used XMLWeb Services using SOAP to transfer the amount to transfer application that is remote and global to different financial institutions.  ? Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information such as payment status report.  ? Developed Unit test cases using JUnit.  ? Developed Ant scripts and developed builds using Apache ANT.  ? Used Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  ? Used Clear Case for source code maintenance.  Environment: J2EE, Java, Struts, Tiles, JSP, JNDI, Clear Case, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, JAXB, JAXP, Schema (XST), EJB 2.0, ANT, JavaScript, JMS, Rational Rose, WSAD, DB2. Education Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science JNTU Skills Git, Html, Svn, Visio, Database, Db2, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Junit, Ant, Maven, Linux, Unix, Ooad, Rational, Rational rose, Sdlc, Uml, React, Angular, Java, Javascript, Node Additional Information Java/J2EE Technologies  Servlets, JSTL, JDBC, JMS, JPA JNDI, RMI, EJB, JFC/Swing, AWT, Java Beans, Applets, Multithreading, Java Networking, Spring data, Spring framework, Spring JDBC Templates, java mail, Google API, Hibernate 3.2/3.5, Web Services, SOAP, Hadoop    Programming Languages Java JDK1.4/1.5/1.6/1.7, C++, C, SQL, PL/SQL  Application/Web Servers: Oracle/BEA WebLogic 8.1/9.1, (WAS) IBM WebSphere 5.1/6.0/6.1/7.0, JBoss, Tomcat 5.0.28/6.0, Jetty Server, jerkins, AEM 6.0.  Frameworks Struts 2.x/1.x, Spring 3.x, Hibernate 3.x, JSF 1.2/2.0,iBatis,RCP  IDEs Eclipse 3.x, IBM WebSphere Application Developer 5.x, IBM RAD,STS  Web technologies JSP, jQuery, AJAX, XML, XSLT, HTML, DHTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Ext JS, Backbone JS, SQL.  Web Services JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI,REST  XML Tools JAXB, Apache Axis, Altova , XMLSpy    Methodologies Agile, Scrum, RUP, TDD, OOAD, SDLC Waterfall model  Modeling Tools UML, Rational Rose, Visio  Testing technologies/tools JUnit, JMeter, HTML Unit  Database Servers Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11i, DB2, SQL Server, MySQL, Pivotal GPDB and DB2.  Version Control CVS, SVN, GIT  Build Tools ANT, Maven  Platforms Windows 2000/98/95/NT4.0, UNIX, Linux