Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Full Stack Developer - T-Mobile Glendale, CA ? Experience in Agile software development process, Test Driven Development and Scrum methodologies.  ? Proficient in applying design patterns like MVC, Singleton, Session Facade, Service Locator, Visitor, Observer, Decorator, Front Controller, Data Access Object.  ? Experience in developing applications using Java/J2EE technologies like Servlets, Struts, Java Beans, EJB, Spring, Spring Boot, JDBC, Hibernate, JBPM, JMS, JSF.  ? Strong experience in Spring 4.2.0 Framework modules such as Spring Core (IOC, Dependency Injection), Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring Boot, Spring Data, Spring Security, Spring REST and Spring Cloud.  ? Expertise in UI technologies like XML, XML Spy, HTML, HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, CSS, CSS3, PHP, XSLT, JSON, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, ReactJS, BackboneJS.  ? Used Grails, front end libraries such as JavaScript/jQuery, HTML, Sand-slight techniques applied in Groovy.  ? Hands-on experience working and customizing Bootstrap framework to achieve responsiveness.  ? Experience in creating Single Page Applications (SPAs) using JavaScript libraries like AngularJS with good knowledge with Two-way binding, Dependency Injection, Filters, Services, Controllers and Directives.  ? Experienced in working with Spring JDBC Templates, JMS Templates, Spring EAI, Spring Rest Templates  ? Experience in implementing SOA and Web Services using SOAP, REST, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, AXIS.  ? Strong understanding of Microservices Design patterns - Hystrix, DTD, Aggregator, Proxy Chaining.  ? Diverse experience utilizing tools in N-tier and Microservices architecture applications using Spring Boot, Spring Cloud config, Netflix OSS components (Eureka, Zuul, Hystrix), Pivotal Cloud Foundry, AWS, Rabbit MQ, Kafka, Zookeeper, Cassandra, My SQL, Restful Web Services.  ? Strong Knowledge in scripting technologies like Python, Shell, Groovy on Grails and Perl.  ? Worked on creating Docker images, Containers, push/pull and on integration with Spring Boot.  ? Proficient in developing UML/Vision diagrams using tools like Enterprise Architect, Visio and Rational Rose.  ? Experience in working with Relational databases like SQL Server 2000, MySQL, Oracle DB 10g/ 11g, IBM DB2 and Non-Relational Databases like MongoDB, Cassandra.  ? Expertise with tools like SQL Workbench, SQL Developer and TOAD tool for accessing the Database server  ? Good Working knowledge of ANT, MAVEN, Gradle.  ? Designed and implemented interface elements using Google Web Toolkit GWT.  ? Extensive experience in testing on multiple operating systems including Unix, Linux and Windows.  ? Experience in configuring and deploying the applications on Tomcat, Glassfish, WebSphere, WebLogic, JBoss.  ? Expertise in using configuration management tool like SVN and GIT for version controlling.  ? Well experienced in using JUnit, Log 4J, SOAP UI and POSTMAN for testing framework.  ? Expertise on Selenium Data Driven framework and integrating it with Maven [Build Management Tool], TestNG [Unit Testing tool] and Jenkins [Continuous Integration Tool].  ? Excellent team player, quick learner and self-starter with effective communication, motivation and organizational skills combined with attention to details and business process improvements. Work Experience Sr. Java Full Stack Developer T-Mobile - Glendale, CA November 2017 to Present T-Mobile is a leading Telecom Domain company based in USA. T-Mobile Equipment Installment Program (EIP) team works with clients to help their customer's finance their Mobile devices from various available installment plans introduce new plans and calculate down payment and monthly Instalment using Credit Information of an end user. Also, helps them Return or Exchange their Mobile. Device and upgrade to a new mobile device using jump Upgrade Option    Responsibilities:  ? Implemented UI components using Angular 4.0 dependency Injection, Models, data binding and controllers.  ? Developed custom Angular directives, components, services, templates and integrated with Spring forms.  ? Used Spring Boot Actuator to externalize application's configuration properties for different environments.  ? Developed microservices with Spring Eureka to retrieve API routes for the entire cluster. Using this strategy each microservice in a cluster can be load balanced using Ribbon and exposed through one API gateway.  ? Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modelling, analysis, design, development and testing Followed Agile methodology.  ? Used Java 1.8Lambdas to make anonymous inline function calls and used Streams to work effectively with Collection objects.  ? Designed Prototype and project layout skeletons using Bootstrap, Ajax jQuery and HTML5.  ? Implemented Circuit breaker pattern, integrated Hystrix dashboard to monitor Spring microservices.  ? Create and configured the continuous delivery pipelines for deploying microservices and lambda functions using CI/CD Jenkins server.  ? Worked on Swagger API and auto-generated documentation for all REST calls  ? Extensively used Hibernate 4.2 concepts such as inheritance, lazy loading, dirty checking and transactions.  ? Used Hibernate, object-relational mapping (ORM) technique for mapping data from MVC model to MySQL Relational data model with an SQL-based schema.  ? Worked on Swagger API and auto-generated documentation for all REST calls  ? Extensively used Hibernate 4.2 concepts such as inheritance, lazy loading, dirty checking and transactions.  ? Used Hibernate, object/relational-mapping (ORM) technique for mapping data from MVC model to MySQL Relational data model with an SQL-based schema.  ? Implemented service methods and SQL queries, PL/SQL to interact with the Oracle Database.  ? Wrote controllers with Groovy to connect front-end interfaces with java services and used to achieve functionality with reduced code length.  ? Secured the REST API's by implementing OAuth2 token-based authorization scheme using Spring security.  ? Worked on REST APIs, and Elastic Search to efficiently handle and searching JSON data.  ? Worked with NoSQL MongoDB to store, retrieve, and update and manage all the details for Ethernet provisioning and customer order tracking.  ? Worked on creation of MongoDB databases, collections and deploying JavaScript's using mongo shell.  ? Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information such as payment status report.  ? Used Jenkins and pipelines to drive all microservices builds out to the Docker registry and then deployed to Kubernetes, Created Pods and managed using Kubernetes.  ? Worked with Container service Docker with build port and other utilities to deploy Web Applications.  ? Installed, secured, and configured AWS cloud servers and Amazon AWS virtual servers (Linux).  ? Deployed Spring Boot based microservices Docker container using AWS EC2 container services and AWS admin console.  ? Worked on spinning up AWS EC2 instances, Creating IAM Users and Roles, Creating Auto Scaling groups, Load balancers and monitoring through Cloud Watch for the applications, S3 buckets, VPC etc.  ? Deployed applications on multiple WebLogic Servers and maintained Load balancing, High availability and Fail over functionality.  ? Used GIT for version control, experience with GIT-Bash and GIT-Hub.  ? Created Ansible playbooks to automatically install packages from a repository, to change the configuration of remotely configured machines and to deploy new builds.  ? All aspects of testing JUnit, FIT, and SIT, End to End, Regression, User acceptance and Performance.  ? Developed Unit test cases using JUnit, Mockito and Easy mock.    Environment: HTML 5, CSS 3, Bootstrap, Python, Angular 4.0, Node JS JavaScript, Ajax, Maven, Spring 4.x, Hibernate 4.x, Docker, REST, WebLogic Server, Groovy, Swagger API, Kafka, Kubernetes, Jenkins, GIT, Junit, Mockito, Oracle, MongoDB, Agile Scrum. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Change Healthcare - Lombard, IL August 2016 to October 2017 This is a web application which provides web-based access to inpatient and outpatient data from the Data Repository. Users can review as well as update or enter new data through data repository. Many clinicians use Data Repository daily for accessing patient data, which aids in making important clinical decisions. Data Repository is mainly composed of various modules running inside of the application. The project aims to provide the company with data to develop evidence-based health policy decisions as well. The client programs are used for issuing or retrieving data from the database depending on the query for finding health policy premium.    Responsibilities:  ? Java developer involved in back-end and front-end developing team. Took part in developing, maintaining, reviewing and supporting quality code and services.  ? Involved in Daily SCRUM meetings and weekly SPRINT Meetings.  ? Handled Java Multi-Threading part in back-end component, one thread will be running for each user.  ? Implemented and developed UI components using Angular JS features like dependency Injection, Models, data binding and controllers.  ? Developed Interactive web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and Bootstrap.  ? Exposing the Microservices to base on RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  ? Implemented Rest based web services using JAX-RS annotations, Jersey Provider and consumed using HTTP services from Angular JS modules.  ? Developed Application to asses JSON and XML from Restful web service using Angular JS.  ? Implemented the application using design patterns such as Session Facade, Business Delegate, Bean Factory, Singleton, Data Access Object, and Service Locator.  ? Implemented various features of spring framework such as Dependency Injection, IOC, Annotations and Spring integration with Hibernate.  ? Implemented application architecture of the System is based on Spring MVC (Model View Controller) Integrated application with Spring Security for form-based authentication.  ? Experienced in working with Spring JDBC Templates, JMS Templates, Spring EAI, Spring Rest Templates.  ? Extensively used Hibernate 4.2 concepts such as inheritance, lazy loading, dirty checking and transactions.  ? Used Hibernate, object/relational-mapping (ORM) technique for mapping data from MVC model to MySQL Relational data model with an SQL-based schema.  ? Experience in working with Spring Quartz framework and developed various quartz jobs  ? All the functionality is implemented using Spring IO / Spring Boot, Thyme leaf and Hibernate ORM.  ? Performed importing data from various sources to the Cassandra cluster using Java/Python APIs.  ? Configured internode communication between Cassandra nodes and client using SSL encryption  ? Developed Applications using Rule Engines, Drools 4.x, and ILOG to validate the business User Roles.  ? Administered and deployed applications into jBoss Server.  ? Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) for asynchronous exchange of information such as payment status.  ? Worked on creation of Docker container images, tagging, pushing images, integration of Spring boot.  ? Apache Ant was used for the entire build process.  ? Worked on Spring cloud for Routing, Service-to- service calls, Load balancing.  ? Worked on creation of custom Docker container images, tagging, pushing images, integration of Spring boot.  ? Used SVN as version management, Jira for defect management system.  ? Used JUnit for unit testing of the application and log4j for logging.    Environment: Java 1.7, hibernate 4.0, Spring IOC, Web Services, HTML5, Java Script, CSS3, JQuery, XML, AngularJS, Node JS, Java Swings, Agile ActiveMQ and Scrum,Cassandra, Spring MVC, Spring ORM, Scala, Agile Méthodologie, Jenkins, Docker, Design Patterns, Apache Maven, Junit, Jenkins, Log4j. Java Developer Comcast - Philadelphia, PA November 2015 to July 2016 Accuracy assurance Comcast is one of the leading players in the high-speed internet sector. Comcast offers data plans in some markets, to audit the data measurement system, Comcast wanted a device(s) monitoring system which measures data consumed by the device(s) accurately by using three different channels, IPDR, DPI and SNMP.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the design and development phases of Agile Software Development.  ? Developed web GUI involving HTML, React JS, Java Script under MVC architecture.  ? Develop various screens for the front end using ReactJS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and Redux library.  ? Created Managed Beans for handling JSF pages and logic for processing of the data on the page.  ? Used Object/Relational mapping tool Hibernate to achieve object to database table persistency.  ? Involved in configuring hibernate to access database and retrieve data from the database  ? Created simple user interface for application's configuration system using MVC design patterns  ? Created and injected Spring services, Spring Controllers and DAOs to achieve dependency injection and to wire objects of business classes.  ? Used Spring Inheritance to develop beans from already developed parent beans.  ? Involved in the configuration of Spring Framework and Hibernate mapping tool.  ? Monitoring WebLogic/JBoss Server health.  ? Written Web Services (JAX-WS) for external system via SOAP/HTTP call.  ? Did load testing of SOAP Web Services using SOAP UI and Apache JMeter tools. Used Log4j framework to log/track application.  ? Involved in developing SQL queries, stored procedures, and functions in MYSQL database.  ? Used Rational Clear Case for Version Control.    Environment: FileNet, Scala, Java 1.5, JSP, Servlets, Core Java, Spring, Swing, Hibernate, JSF, SOAP/HTTP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, ReactJS, JAX-WS, Web Services- SOAP, SOAP UI, XML, IBM WebSphere 6.1, JMeter, Rational Clear Case, Log 4j, IBM DB2. Sr. Java Developer Flagstar Bank - Troy, MI September 2014 to October 2015 Participated in the development of a paperless web-based document tracking and management system for department specializing in home mortgage loans. Responsible for both front end and back end development. HTML5, JavaScript/jQuery, and Java Server Pages were used on the front end. Implemented backend rules and logic using Java/J2EE and Spring Tools. SCRUM (Agile Development) was the methodology used for the development of this product. Eclipse IDE was used for development.    Responsibilities:  ? Built Rich Prototypes and Applications using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, JSON, Ruby and rails, Bootstrap with MySQL database.  ? Developed source code to consume JSON response received through XHR/AJAX calls using jQuery.  ? Participated in development of a new business application for the layout using Grid orientation model Bootstrap framework.  ? Integrated the frontend jQuery UI with backend REST API.  ? Worked with core java and Drool rule engine and participated in all aspects of software life cycle including analysis, design, development, production deployment and support.  ? Designed and Implemented the DAO layer using Spring, hibernate.  ? Implemented RPC integration style using Restful web services.  ? Used Spring Core for concept Inversion of control (IOC) implemented using dependency injection.  ? Implement the authentication, authorization, and access-control features by using Spring Security.  ? Developed application using Spring MVC, JSP and AJAX on the presentation layer, the business layer is built using spring and the persistent layer uses Hibernate.  ? Created Stored Procedures, User Defined functions, Views and implemented the Error Handling in the Stored Procedures and SQL objects and Modified already existing stored procedures, triggers, views, indexes.  ? Developed test scripts in Selenium Web Driver using Java Language. Developed unit testing using JUnit.  ? Used JENKINS for continuous integration(CI) and continuous deployment(CD).  ? Created and maintained complex triggers for logon and some R/I.  ? Facilitated User Testing sessions to solicit feedback on prototypes.    Environment: Struts 2.0, Hibernate 3.0, JSP, JSON, JavaScript, Bootstrap, SOAP, Oracle, PL/SQL, Eclipse, Bean, Junit, JBOSS, Struts, DAO, AOP Spring, Spring Core, MVC Spring, AJAX, Jenkins. Java Developer IT Soft December 2012 to August 2014 IT Soft is one of the nation's leaders in health care, dental, pharmacy and disability insurance. IT Soft puts information and helpful resources to work for its members to help them make better informed decisions about their health care. IT Soft provides insurance protection to more than 1 million businesses and professionals in the U.S. and internationally.    Responsibilities:  ? Designed the application using the J2EE design patterns such as Session Façade, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Value Object, Value List Handler, Singleton.  ? Developed Use case diagrams, Object diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using UML.  ? Developed presentation tier as HTML, JSPs using Struts Framework.  ? Developed the middle tier using EJBs.  ? Developed session, entity beans and message driven beans.  ? Entity Beans used for accessing data from the SQL Server database.  ? jQuery opinionated about how a CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) application should be built.  ? Prepared high and low-level design documents for the business modules for future references and updates.  ? Deployed the application on WebSphere application server in development and production environment.  ? Undertook the Integration and testing of the different parts of the application.  ? Developed automated Build files using ANT.  ? Used Subversion for version control and log4j for logging errors.  ? Developed test scripts in Selenium Web Driver using Java Language. Developed unit testing using JUnit.    Environment: Java/J2EE, Struts 1.2, Tiles, EJB, JMS, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JUnit, WebSphere 7.0, Eclipse, SQL Server, log4j, Subversion, Selenium Web Driver, Windows NT Java Developer Serco July 2010 to November 2012 This system provides Patient Administration, Billing and Pharmacy Management functions for the hospital. The Major function of this system is to provide and share the patient health records and access with other insurance companies through SOAP services    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in complete software development life cycle with object-oriented approach of client's business process and continuous client feedback.  ? Involved in understanding and analyzing the requirements of the project.  ? Implemented server-side programs by using Servlets and JSP.  ? Designed, developed and User Interface using HTML, JavaScript, AJAX and CSS.  ? Used Eclipse for application development.  ? Involved in Code reviews for other modules developed by peers.  ? Deployed Applications on Apache Tomcat Server.  ? Helped design the database tables for optimal storage of data.  ? Responsible for Integration, unit testing, system testing and stress testing for all the phases of project.  ? Responsible for coding SQL Statements and Stored procedures for back end communication using JDBC.  ? Wrote PL/SQL stored procedures, Prepared statement and used API. Used Junit for unit testing.  ? Created Unit, Acceptance and Integration Test Documents and Code Review Documents    Environment: JAVA, J2EE, JSP, SERVLETS, JDBC, HTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, AJAX, ECLIPSE, JUNIT, MVC, APACHE TOMCAT AND MYSQL. Education Bachelor's Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages Core Java(J2SE), J2EE, SQL and PL/SQL  Java/J2EE Technologies SERVLETS, JSP 1.2/2.0/3.0, JavaBeans 3.0, Java Servlet API 3.0  Frameworks Spring, Hibernate, Angular JS 1.X JSF  Application/Web servers IBM WebSphere 8.x/7.x/ 6.x/5.x, BEA Web Logic 8.1/9.1, Apache Tomcat 5.x/6.x/7.x/8.x, JBOSS 4.x/3.x, Web Sockets.  Databases Oracle 10g/11g/12C, SQL server 2012/2014/2016, MySQL 5.7, DB2 11.1, MongoDB, Cassandra.  Internet Technologies HTML 5, JavaScript 1.8, XML 2.0, CSS 3 and CSS 4, ReactJS, jQuery 2.11, AngularJS, Angular 2.0/4.0, BackBone.JS 1.3.1, Node JS 6.0.  Cloud Environments Azure, AWS, Netflix Eureka, Kubernetes.  Operating system Windows 10, Linux Mint 18.1, Unix  Testing and Logging Frameworks JUnit, Log4J, SoapUI, Test NG, easy mock and power mock.  Reporting Tools Crystal Reports XI, SSRS 5.0, IDQ Analyst Tool 9., Swagger2& Jasper Reports 6.0,  Methodologies Agile, waterfall, TDD (Test-Driven-Development), Scrum  Developer IDE Platforms Eclipse, Edit plus, Notepad ++, TEXT PAD, JBuilder, Net Beans 8.0.2, IntelliJ 2017.1, Spring Tool Suite (STS) 3.8.3, GITHUB 2.12.0  Build Tools Ant 1.10, Maven 3.3.9, Gradle 3.4.1  XML & Web Services SOAP 1.2, REST 2.0, XML, XSD, Apache Axis, DOM, SAX, JAXP, JAXB, XML Bean