Sr. Java/J2EE developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">developer</span> Sr. Java/J2EE developer - MUFG Newark, NJ • Around 8+ years of certified professional IT experience in Projectanalysis, Design, Development, Testing and Deployment of Web Based Applications using Java/J2EE. Actively involved in each phase of Software Development Life cycle (SDLC)  • Experience in Front-End UI technologies like HTML, DHTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, Node JS, Angular JS, Backbone JS, Bootstrap, Tag Libraries and JSTL  • Complete understanding of Object Oriented Design and Development of web-based and client/server systems on multiple platforms in a distributed environment.  • Developed core modules in large cross-platform applications using JAVA, J2EE, Hibernate, JPA, JTA, JSP, Servlets, EJB, JDBC, XML and Multi-Threading  • Solid experience in building N-Tier Web Enabled Applications using Struts, Springs, Hibernate  • Excellent implementation and good knowledge of J2EE Design Patterns such as Session Facade, ServiceLocator, Business Delegate, DAO (Data Access Object) and Singleton and also worked with Hibernate, Spring and StrutsFrameworks  • Extensive experience working in Application, Micro Services and WebServers like WebLogic, Web Sphere, JBoss, Apache Tomcat. Have hands on experience in the design and development of Web Services, REST, WSDL, SOAP, JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, RMI, JTA, JMS  • Strong skills in RDBMS implementation and development using MongoDB, MySQL, Oracle, IBM DB2 Database Servers and hands on experience with NoSQL, SQL and PL/SQL  • Having Experience on UNIX commands and Deployment of Applications in Server  • Experienced in JMS to exchange over messaging the information in more reliable and asynchronous way in enterprise Applications. Used Apache ActiveMQ and IBM MQ as JMS provider  • Excellent in deploying the applications in AWS as EC2 instances and create snapshots for the data that have to be stored in AWSS3  • Created and Configure Micro service architecture for CDT Directory project and integrated with AngularJS application  • Experienced in the formation and mentoring of project teams working on Agile methodologies to deliver business critical software applications  • Created continuous deliverypipeline for CDT Directory to run the war, Ami and deploy jobs in Jenkins brew master instance, which reduces the time for the deployment of Micro services  • Knowledge on grid Controls, Pie Charts and other Swing Components  • Expertise in testing with Junit using tools like JMeter  • Domain knowledge and business expertise in Banking, finance, E-Commerce, Insurance, Healthcare  • Subversion SVN, CVS, GIT and Visual Source Safe as versioning software tools.  • Hands on experience in building tools like ANT, Maven, Gradle.  • Involved in issue tracking and agile project management using JIRA.  • Experience in developing applications on Windows, UNIX and Linux platforms.  • Highly experience with Java complaint IDE's like STS, Eclipse, IntelliJ and RAD.  • Excellent analytical and critical thinking, creative problem solving, quick learning, interpersonal and client interfacing skills.  • Good communication, presentation and interpersonal abilities and a participating group member Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java/J2EE developer MUFG - Monterey Park, CA, US July 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in all the phases of SDLC including Requirements Collection, Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications, Development and Customization of the Application using SOA  • Developed front-end content usingHTML5, CSS3,JavaScript,JQuery,JSP, XLTS, Bootstrap, and AngularJS.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive usingAJAX,JavaScript.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Restful Web Services usingAJAX, JSON.  • System builds using Spring Model View Controller (MVC) architecture.  • Involved in using Spring AOP framework for reusability logging purpose.  • Designed and Implemented the DAO layer using Spring with Hibernate.  • Worked on coding persistence layer components using Hibernate.  • Used Hibernate, ORM solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with an SQL-based schema.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency InjectionSpring DI andSpring MVC for REST API s andSpring Boot for micro-services.  • Created Rest service for authentication using Spring Boot with embedded Tomcat server.  • Used Spring Security(Oauth2) for authentication and authorization.  • Implemented Restful web services using JAX-RS annotations, Jersey as provider and implemented security using OAUTH.  • Consumed Rest based services from Angular JS using HTTP services  • Written SQL Queries and storedprocedures to interact with Oracle DB.  • Experience in developing application, automated scripts leveraging MongoDB.  • Worked with NoSQL database MongoDB and worked with it to perform many different operations.  • RESTful web services using Jersey for JAX-RS implementation.  • Designed, built, and deployed a multitude applications utilizing almost all of the AWS stack (Including EC2, R53, S3, RDS, DynamoDB, SQS, IAM, and EMR), focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling.  • Developed AWS S3 to copy project artifact into S3 bucket.  • Integrated Open stack API with Amazon EC2 cloud based architecture in AWS.  • Developed an AWSLambda & RDS function to send a request for internal service end points through API Gateway using apache Http Client.  • Extensively used JMS to exchange messages withIBM MQ/MQqueues.  • Created and Configure Microservices architecture for CDT Directory project and integrated with AngularJs and NodeJS applications.  • Create Groovy scripts used in Jenkins for multi pipeline plugins  • Used Groovy Shell to automate build Process.  • Implemented Service Oriented Architecture using JMS for sending and receiving messages while creating web services  • Implemented test cases for unit testing of modules using Junit andMockito.  • Focused on Test Driven Development; thereby creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality before writingthe functionality.  • Used TortoiseSVN to maintain the version of files and took the responsibility to do the code merges from branch to trunk and creating new branch when new feature implementation starts.  • Used Maven as build automation tool for deploying the project on WebSphere Application Server and used Jenkins to perform continuous Integration.  • Used GIT for version control tool and Spring Tool Suite (STS) for IDE.    Environment:HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Ajax, JQuery, Bootstrap, JSON, XML, Tortoise SVN, JSP, Spring MVC, Maven, Web Sphere, JMS,IBM MQ,Agile Methodology, AWS, Amazon Cloud, Groovy,Spring, Spring Batch, Spring Boot, Spring Security, Hibernate, Web Services, Restful,JIRA, Log4J, JUnit,Mockito, Linux, STS, Oracle. Sr. Java developer Relus Technologies - Peachtree Corners, GA, US May 2015 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  • Planning, analysis, design and implementation of different modules using Agile (Scrum) Methodology.  • Involved in Daily Scrum meetings, Sprint planning and estimation of the tasks for the user stories, participated in retrospective and presenting Demo at end of the sprint.  • Developed front end UI application using Angular JS and given support to the existing applications.  • Added dynamic functionality to the application by implementing JQuery, NodeJS.  • This Application was developed using Spring-MVC and IOC/Dependency Injection integrating different layers of the application.  • Communicating with different web Services by using Spring Integration.    • Wrote Hibernate classes, DAO's to retrieve & store data, configured Hibernate files.    • Developed Java Persistence API (JPA) through Hibernate and Worked on Hibernate and Spring-JDBC in development of DAO Layer.  • Implemented data persistence and retrieval of data like service plan, information on current customer enrollment etc. by using Hibernate as ORM tool.  • Implemented REST Web Services within the application with the use of URI templates and content negotiation.  • Worked in establishing JMS connections for Handset Purchase for Customers to buy plans from their prepaid mobile phones.  • Wrote services to store and retrieve user data from the MongoDB for the application.  • Converted data from XML format into Java objects and injected into MongoDB.  • Integrated Open stack API with Amazon EC2 cloud based architecture in AWS.  • Worked on installing and configuring ActiveMQfor durable message service.  • Used JMS to send messages for two or more clients.  • Provided Production Support by executing the sessions, diagnose problems and fix the mappings for changes in business logic.  • Create and Update database design as per requirement in Oracle andPostGreSql.  • Application was developed using IntelliJ IDE and SVN for version control and deployed using WebLogic application Server in Windows environmentand also in UNIX environment.  • Performance testing, optimization of Throughput and increase of Scalability of the application by using NodeJS.  • Executing tasks on XML registry, XSLT/XQuery and transformation capabilities.  • Validating mapping definitions, schemas and transformations using XSLT.  • Used GIT as version control and JIRA for bug tracking  • Wrote JUnit Test Cases for action classes and service layer classes.    Environment: Java, J2EE, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, AngularJS, Spring, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring Boot, Hibernate, JPA, JSP, JDBC,AWS, JMS, ActiveMQ, JAXB, Oracle, PostgreSQL, MongoDB,Teradata,Log4j, REST Web Services, Maven, JIRA, JUnit, WebLogic Application Server, XSLT, IntelliJ, GIT. Java/J2EE Developer Buxton Consulting - Pleasanton, CA, US March 2013 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing UI pages using HTML, CSS, JSON, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS and Ajax  • Developed the responsive web pages using Bootstrap.  • Used AJAX API for intensive user operations and client-side validations.  • Wrote client side validations for DOJO and XML files which checks for the valid values for the different events that are being logged.  • Implemented MVC Architecture using Struts Framework.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries, third party libraries and Java Script to simplify the complexities of the application.  • RESTful web services using Jersey for JAX-RS implementation.  • Designed and developed HibernateDAO's using spring framework's Hibernate Dao Support and Hibernate Template  • Involved in creating various Data Access Objects (DAO) for addition, modification and deletion of records using various specification files.  • Involved developing web services usingSOAP, XML, WSDL, UDDI, XMLSchemas, and JAXP.  • Wrote SAX and DOM XML parsers and usedSOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface.  • Created tables, triggers, stored procedures, SQL queries, joins, integrity constraints and views for multiple databases, Oracle gushing Toad tool.  • Used multithreading in programming to improve overall performance using Singleton design pattern in Hibernate Utility class.  • Developed Java and EJB in Mainframe DB2 environment.  • Implemented routing logic and navigation from screen to screen and implemented login functionality on the client side  • Wrote Stored Procedures and complicated queries for IBM DB2.  • Worked on parsing the XML files using DOM/SAX parsers.  • Involved in Unit Testing of various modules by generating the Test Cases.  • Developed Ant Scripts for the build process and deployed in IBMWebSphere.  • Involved in Bug fixing of various modules that were raised by the testing teams in the application during the Integration testing phase.  • Implemented PL/SQL procedures and views in Oracle Database.  • Implemented Log4J for Logging Errors, debugging and tracking using loggers, spender's components.  • Used Rational Clear Case for version control and Clear Quest for bug tracking.  • Performed deployment of applications on IBM WebSphere Application Server.  • Worked on UNIX environment for development.    Environment: Java, J2EE, HTML, CSS,JQuery, JavaScript, AngularJS, Bootstrap, XML, Struts, Hibernate, REST Web Services,SOAP,WSDL,SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle, Log4j, Subversion, IBM WebSphere, Maven, Eclipse, JIRA, UNIX. Java/J2EE Developer Laguna Hills, CA, US January 2011 to March 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases of the Software development life cycle (SDLC) using Agile Methodology.  • Involved in the development of the User Interfaces using HTML, JSP, JS, Dojo Tool Kit, CSS  • Used AJAXAPI for intensive user operations and client-side validations.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries, third party libraries and Java Script to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Developed the application using JSF MVC Framework.  • Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML file that contains declarations and other dependent objects declaration.  • Inserted Dependency Injection between components using Spring(IOC) concept.  • Designed and developed Hibernate DAO's using spring framework's Hibernate Dao Support and Hibernate Template.  • Involved in creating various Data Access Objects (DAO) for addition, modification and deletion of records using various specification files.  • Implemented Asynchronous messaging between components using JMS  • Used multithreading in programming to improve overall performance using Singleton design pattern in Hibernate Utility class.  • Developed Java and EJB in Mainframe DB2 environment.  • Wrote Stored Procedures and complicated queries for IBM DB2  • Implemented SOA architecture with Web Services using SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and XML using CXF framework tool/Apache Commons. Worked on parsing the XML files using DOM/SAX parsers.  • Created tables, triggers, stored procedures, SQL queries, joins, integrity constraints and views for multiple databases,Oracleusing Toad tool.  • Wrote client side validations for DOJO and XML files which checks for the valid values for the different events that are being logged.  • Involved in UnitTesting of various modules by generating the Test Cases.  • Developed Ant Scripts for the build process and deployed in IBMWebSphere.  • Involved in Bugfixing of various modules that were raised by the testing teams in the application during the Integrationtestingphase.  • Implemented PL/SQL procedures and views in Oracle Database using Altova Database Spy.  • Implemented Log4J for Logging Errors, debugging and tracking using logger's components.  • Used Rational Clear Case for version control and Clear Quest for bug tracking.  • Performed deployment of applications on JBoss Application Server.  • Worked on UNIX environment for development. Java developer Lenmar Consulting - Jersey City, NJ, US November 2009 to January 2011 Environment: Java, J2EE,HTML, CSS, JQuery, XML, Hibernate, SQL, PL/SQL, Spring, Oracle, Log4j, Subversion, JBoss Application Server, Maven, Eclipse, JIRA, UNIX.  Lenmar Consulting , Jersey City, NJ Nov 2009 To Jan 2011  Java developer  Responsibilities:  • Extensively use of Core Java features including collection, exception handling, generics and annotation in the logic tier to implement the mortgage calculator algorithms such as monthly payment for fix rate and ARM.  • Designed the back-end server, build web service to provide result and generate report and the front-end user interface.  • Developed Presentation and validation layers using JSP, HTMLand CSS3 Custom Tag Libraries.  • Retrieved data from the Restful web service for calculation using AJAX call.  • Developed JUnit test cases for DAO and Service Layer methods.  • Extensively used JQuery validation package to make client side user input validation.  • Used JSP, JavaScript and JDBC to create web Servlets.  • Created tables in database based on the Entity-relationship model that is provided by the database architect.  • Used SVN for version control.  • Used IBMRAD7 as IDE tool to develop the application and JIRA for bug and issue tracking.    Environment: Java, J2EE, HTML, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Struts, JDBC, JSP, Web Services, REST, Oracle, JUnit 4, AJAX, SVN, JIRA. Education Bachelor's Skills database (9 years), J2EE (9 years), Java (9 years), JSP (9 years), Oracle (9 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages Java, J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL  J2EE Technologies Servlets, JDBC, JSP, JSF, JMS, EJB, JNDI, Java Security  Mark-up/XML Technologies HTML, CSS, JavaScript,AJAX, JQuery, AngularJS, Node JS, React JS, Bootstrap, XML, XSD,XSL/XSLT, SAX/DOM, JSON  Tools & Framework  Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Web Flow, Spring IOC, Spring  AOP, Spring Boot, Spring Security, JSF, SOAP UI, Groovy, ANT, Maven, Jenkins, ApacheActive MQ    Web services SOAP, Restful, UDDI, WSDL, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, JAX-B, Axis2, Micro Services, AWS (Amazon Web Services)  Web/App Servers IBM Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat, JBoss, Web Logic Server, Glassfish  Database Oracle, SQL-Server, MySQL server, TOAD, MongoDB/NoSQL  IDEs Eclipse, IntelliJ, Spring Tool Suite(STS), RAD  O-R mapping Hibernate, MyBatis, iBatis  Modeling/ CASE Tools Rational Rose, MS Visio Professional  Testing Tools/ Others JUnit, Soap UI, Putty, Rational Clear Quest, RTC, StarTeam  Version Control Tortoise SVN, CVS, Rational Clear case, Git and Mercurial  OS & Environment Windows, Win 2k Server, Sun Solaris, UNIX, Linux