UI/ Java Developer UI/<span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI/ Java Developer - Brinks Inc Coppell, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UI/ Java Developer Brinks Inc - Coppell, TX February 2018 to Present Description: Brink's U.S, a division of Brink's Incorporated, is the premier provider of global security services including secure logistics, currency and coin processing, ATM servicing and other value-added services to financial institutions, retailers and other commercial and government entities.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Agile methodologies to do requirements gathering, analysis and planning  ? Developed RESTful web services using Spring and JAX RS.  ? Used CSS3 and HTML 5 in the Front end to Design the Pages and content where the content is the JSON Object.  ? Developed User Interface using JSP, JSTL, HTML, CSS, Java Script, jQuery and AngularJS.  ? Used Spring to define Controller, action mappings, forms and View pages.  ? Used JMS to pass messages as payload to track different statuses, milestones and status.  ? Involved in the config set for Web logic servers, Data Sources, JMS queues and the deployment.  ? Used Java Message Service (JMS) API to create, send, receive, and read messages.  ? Used MongoDB to save the messages that are sent by Queue Generator.  ? Worked extensively on technologies Spring boot, XML, JMS and MongoDB.  ? Experience using various web/application servers like Apache Tomcat, IBM WebSphere server.  ? Developed Message Driven Beans (MDBs) for receiving and processing data from IBM MQSeries using JMS.  ? Developed Java classes that used JMS to communicate with the Queue managers.  ? Used Spring Controller to pass the control of the application and validate user input.  ? Integrated the application with Spring-MVC using Spring Boot, Spring Dependency Injection (DI), and Spring Annotations.  ? Used Maven to define the dependencies / plug-in and build the application.  ? Used Rest Controller in Spring framework to create RESTful Web services and JSON objects for communication.  ? Tested Rest APIs in Spring-Controller at backend for JSON data using Postman.  ? Worked on Spring Boot for development of web-based applications using Service and Dao layers.  ? End to end design and implementation using Spring Boot.  ? Version Controlled using SVN.  ? Implemented Application issues on Jira.  Environment: Java 1.8, Spring 3.0, Hibernate, Tomcat 7, Oracle 11g, My Eclipse, SVN, Maven 3.3, Web Services, REST, Spring Boot, IBM MQ series, MongoDB, Active MQ. UI/ Java Developer CBRE - Richardson, TX September 2016 to January 2018 Description: CBRE offers a broad range of integrated services, including facilities, transaction and project management; property management; investment management; appraisal and valuation; property leasing; strategic consulting; property sales; mortgage services and development services.  Responsibilities:  ? Developed multiple screens for the application using Java, HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Designed new application portal using J2EE and Liferay Portal technologies.  ? Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries (JSTL) to simplify the complexities of the application.  ? Developed the whole application using Spring Modules following MVC II design Pattern.  ? Involved in development of Spring Controllers and Views.  ? Designed and developed the persistence tier using Hibernate framework. Used DB2 Database.  ? Create Myasis mapping XML to map SQL Result Set to java objects and integrated spring with Myasis.  ? Developed SOAP Web services for getting credit card information from third party.  ? Worked on JSON and XML for representing data records over Http protocol using GET, POST, PUT and DELETE methods.  ? Used Apache Axis for testing the web services.  ? Developed test cases using JUnit and used Log4j as a logging framework.  ? Used JMS API for asynchronous communication by putting the messages in the Message queue, such as PDF, Excel report generation.  ? Involved in configuration of Liferay Portal admin settings.  ? Responsible for creating an instance on Amazon EC2 and deployed the application on it.  ? Used JIRA to track/update project changes.  ? Used SVN as Source Control.  ? Build and deployed application using Maven and used it for dependency management.  ? Used WebsphereApplicationServer6 / WebSpherePortalserver6.0 to create, debug and deploy application modules.  ? Used IBM MQ Series for messaging services to various branches.  ? Used Win Merge tool for code merge and integration.  Environment: JDK1.7, HTML5, CSS, EJB, JSP, JSTL, Java Script, Spring, Hibernate, DB2, Myasis, XML, Soap, WSDL, JUnit, Apache Axis, SQL, PL/SQL, IBM Application RAD, IBM WebSphere 6, IBM MQ, SVN, JIRA, Amazon EC2, Portal, Maven. Java Developer Excel Soft Services Private Limited - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2015 to January 2016 Description: ESS was founded in 2003 by a team of software and vertical experts, and maintenance, e-commerce and database-driven web services solution creation and maintenance.  Responsibilities:  ? Created Technical documentation, Sequence Diagrams, Class level design, UML Diagrams for modules.  ? Implemented Business Delegate, Data Access Objects (DAO), Data Transfer Objects (DTO), Service locator, Session Facade, View Helper and Value Object design patterns for all the modules.  ? Implemented the Spring framework for collaborative integration.  ? Implemented a multi-threaded application which is built on top of Spring framework.  ? Used Spring (MVC based) concept of Front Controller to handle requests from the client and process it at the backend.  ? Created Web.xml, Struts-config.xml files to integrate all the components in the Spring framework.  ? Implementing the validations using front end technologies like JavaScript, jQuery and AngularJS.  ? Developed JSP forms, Controller classes, Log4j 4jand Spring Configuration file.  ? Developed Hibernate mapping files and hibernate configuration for persisting data to the database.  ? Used Object Relational Model (ORM) for java persistence API (JPA).  ? Developed SOAP based Web services using Mule ESB based on SOA architecture.  ? Created a Single Sign on using SAML based web service.  ? Used SAX parser for parsing XML files.  ? All code was written using the Eclipse IDE, used WebSphere server for deploying the web content.  ? Written queries, stored procedures and functions using SQL, PL/SQL in Oracle using tools like TOAD.  ? Extensively used JUnit for unit testing, integration testing and production testing.  ? Used Trello for Issue tracking and collaborative work.  ? Used ANT Builder extensively for the code building and created Daily Rolling Log using Log4j.  ? Used SVN as Version Control System.  Environment: Core Java, JSP 2.0, JNDI, SQL, JavaScript, XML, Spring, API, Eclipse 3.4, Mule ESB, WSDL, SOAP/ SAML, SAX parser, Single Sign on, IBM WebSphere Sphere7.0, Hibernate 3.0, ANT, JUnit, Log4j, Oracle 9i UI/ Java Developer Sprint Corporation - Overland Park, KS January 2014 to February 2015 Description: Sprint is a telecommunications company with a huge corporate headquarters in Kansas. Sprint was ready to leave the landline phone business behind, so the company created the Embarq brand, which later turned into CenturyLink.  Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for planning, designing.  ? Designed and developed Site Hierarchy interface and other GUI Screen applications with java.  ? The User interface for setting-up the website creation tool, configuration settings, pop-up Windows were coded in JAVA, DHTML and JavaScript.  ? Developed Presentation tier as Java Server Pages implementing in servlets.  ? Implemented presentation logic in JSPs, Servlets  ? Developed Servlets and designed web.xml for the servlets.  ? For Bean management we use Spring Framework's Dependency Injection.  ? Involved in implementing MVC CRUD operations, Pagination, File Upload, JMS, RMI, and DAO classes.  ? Implemented Validation framework for field validations.  ? Threads scheduling is used for the calendar tool.  ? Involved coding and review of the system.  ? Involved for preparation of user entry screens and web forms.  ? Client-side validations were done using JavaScript.  ? Worked on writing PL/SQL Stored Procedures using Oracle.  ? Used JDBC for connectivity.  Environment: Java 1.6, JSP, Struts, Servlet, JDBC, Spring, MyEclipse, Java Script, HTML, CSS, XML, Tomcat Application Server, Oracle, Maven. Java Developer Ameriprise Financial - Phoenix, AZ October 2012 to December 2013 Description: Ameriprise Financial, Inc. is an American diversified financial services company. Ameriprise Financial engages in business through its subsidiaries, providing financial planning, products and services, including wealth management, asset management, insurance, annuities, and estate planning.  Responsibilities:  ? Worked on various projects from UI to the Server side.  ? Involved in designing UML Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams.  ? Participated in day-to-day meeting, status meeting, strong reporting and effective communication with project manager and developers.  ? Created User interface using JSP, CSS, Java script and jQuery API.  ? Modified existing software to correct errors, upgrade interfaces and improve performance  ? Used bootstrap as CSS framework for design layout.  ? Configured JDBC Data Sources, JDBC Connection Pools and Bridge to provide interoperability between WebLogic JMS  ? Extensively used Java Multi-Threading concept for downloading files from a URL.  ? Experience in Spring MVC Framework.  ? Used Hibernate, object relational-mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with SQL-based scheme.  ? Called the RESTful web service calls with $http.  ? Developed web pages applying best standards.  ? Used GITHUB for the version control.  Environment: Java 1.6, JSP, JSTL, J2EE, JDBC, Servlets, HTML, HTTP, CSS, UML, MVC, Struts 1.3, XML, JavaScript, Log4J, WebLogic 10, JDeveloper, VSS, Windows, Oracle 9i. Jr Java Developer Alliance Global Services - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2011 to September 2012 Description: The new e-store solutions will provide e-commerce services for TAA business unit. It is a comprehensive suite of automated information system for selling products and distributing content over the Internet. E-store Increase the reusability across the enterprise, reduce deployment time for new business capabilities, reduce operational costs.  Responsibilities:  ? Worked on Portal applications. Involved in developing of Group portal and Member portal applications.  ? Used various Core Java Such as Exception Handling, Collection APIs to implement various features and enhancements.  ? Designed dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML, CSS3, jQuery and JavaScript  ? Developed html views with HTML, CSS3, JSON and AngularJS.  ? Used SOAP Web services for transmission of large blocks of XML data over HTTP.  ? Wrote SQL queries, stored procedures, and triggers to perform back-end database operations.  ? Used SQL statements passed through a JDBC connection to the server.  ? Developed stored procedures and triggers using SQL to calculate and update the tables to implement business logic using MySQL database  ? Wrote SQL queries, stored procedures, and triggers to perform back-end database operations using MySQL  ? Used SQL statements passed through a JDBC connection to the server operations using MySQL  ? Used JMeter for performance testing.  ? Used the Eclipse and IntelliJ IDEs for extensive development.  ? Used JUnit for unit testing.  ? Git was used as source control tool.  Environment: Java 1.6, JSP, JSTL, J2EE, JDBC, Servlets, HTML, HTTP, CSS, UML, MVC, Struts 1.3, XM, JavaScript, Log4J, WebLogic 10, MySQL, Oracle 9i. Education Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science & Engineering in CSE Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University 2011 Skills Javascript, Front End, Angular, UI, React