Sr. Java Developer Sr.<span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Adient Northwood, OH • Over 8+ years of strong software experience in design, development and deployment of web-based Client-Server business applications using OOP, Java/J2EE technologies.  • Ability to efficiently translate algorithms, ideas and concepts to software applications.  • Expertise in design with Use Case, Sequence diagrams, Activity diagrams, Class diagrams with exposure to UML, tools like Rational Rose and use of Rational Unified Process (RUP).  • Experience in Java, JDBC, JavaBeans, Hibernate, Struts, JSP, JavaScript, JFC, Servlets, EJB, and GWT.  • Experienced in implementing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) with XML based Web Services (SOAP/UDDI/WSDL) and REST web services with Spring Boot and Micro Services.  • Experienced in transferring data from different data sources into HDFS systems using Kafka producers, consumers and Kafka brokers.  • Experienced in using Amazon Web Services (AWS) and AWS SNS/SQS for delivering messages.  • Expertise in designing and developing web and mobile applications using HTML 5, CSS3, Less, Sass, JavaScript, jQuery, nodeJs, AngularJS. Skilled at progressing from problem statement to well documented designs.  • Experienced in Development of services that utilize AWS SDK's (Dynamo DB, Elastic Beanstalk, EC2, Lambda)  • Experience with frameworks like Struts, Spring, JSF, AJAX frameworks and ORM frameworks like Hibernate.  • Developed reusable and interoperable Web service modules based on SOA architecture using SOAP, RESTFUL.  • Experienced in writing Components, Pipes and Services to separate concern and handle different situations by using Angular2 and Worked on Angular4 Enhancements.  • Experience in working on modern MEAN Stack- MongoDB, Express, Angular and Nodejs.  • Expertise in XML technologies such as XSL, XSLT, XML schemas, XPath, XForms, XSL-FO and parsers like SAX/DOM.  • Expertise in developing SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) and J2EE Web Services based on SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, JAX-WS, JAXB, JAX-RPC using tools like Apache Axis.  • Spearheaded Application Developer conversant with developing Applications using J2EE Design patterns such as MVC, Singleton, Session Facade, Service Locator, Visitor, Observer, Decorator, Front Controller, DAO.  • Experience with Maven and Gradle for dependency, version management and Jenkins continuous integration (CI) to setup automated builds and good knowledge on Quick Build and Bamboo.  • Knowledge of XML and related technologies like XSL, XSLT and parsers like JAXP (SAX, DOM) and JAXB.  • Proven experience with Application Servers like IBM WebSphere 6.x/5.x/7.0, Oracle/BEA WebLogic 9.x/8.x/7.x/6.x, JBoss and Tomcat 5.x/4.x/3/x.,  • Experienced in major relational databases Oracle [ ] SQL Server [ ] DB2, MySQL.  • Extensive development experience in different IDE's like Eclipse 3.x, Jbuilder 9.x/8.x, WSAD 5.x, IBM RAD and Altova XMLSpy.  • Worked on creating responsive website for Smart devices using responsive design, media queries and bootstrap. Was involved in test automation for Mobile Devices based on iOS and Android. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Adient - Northwood, OH April 2017 to Present Description: Restructuring the existing research publication architecture dividing into multiple components, which can be easily maintainable as the Data load, Increases, Created a new Editor for the Analyst to create publications with a User-friendly interface Migrated existing UI code to Angular JS 2.  Responsibilities:  • Analyzed the technical requirements and created various models required for the project. Implemented Model View Controller (MVC) architecture using SpringFramework Involved in design and development of a multi module Java, spring and Hibernate projects.  • Implemented the web-based application following the MVC architecture using Spring Framework  • In addition, used different spring modules like Spring Core, Spring AOP, Spring MVC and Spring Security.  • Created new functionalities through enhancements and worked to troubleshoot issues and resolve bugs in software, working both internally amongst fellow developers, business analysts, and members of the support team, as well as externally, directly with clients.  • Involved in design, development micro services with Restful and SOAP web services using Spring REST.  • Developed Single Page applications using Angular JS 2, HTML, CSS, Semantic UI libraries and TypeScript.  • Used Node JS to create backend REST API/JSON Response for a component.  • Using Java Persistence API (JPA) for accessing, persisting, and managing data between Java  • Objects / classes and a relational database  • Worked closely with Devops team to set up CI/CD pipeline using Jenkins, Ansible, AWS, Maven and GIT.  • Deploying Rest API's Application in AWS Cloud and Cloud Foundry.  • Using Hibernate ORM tool for mapping object-oriented domain model to relational database (SQL  • Server).  • Developed faster interactive Front-End using Angular UI components such as grid, Accordion, tab and progress bar components  • Created the Node.js EXPRESS Server combined with Socket.io to build MVC framework from front-end side AngularJS to back-end MongoDB, in order to provide broadcast service as well as chatting service.  • Build REST web service by building Node.js Server in the back-end to handle requests sent from the front-end jQuery Ajax calls.  • Implementing batch processing for feed using spring batch framework.  • Working with SQL Server Database, creating Stored procedures, views, tables, constraints, indexes  • Etc. used SQL Server Management Studio.  • Working with NO SQL database MongoDB using Mongo Booster.  • Used H2 Database for in Memory Testing for Java Application.  • Used Liquibase Library for tracking, managing and applying database schema changes.  • Working with JBoss and Tomcat Application Servers.  • Worked on Debugging for fixing the issues for optimal performance.  • Deploying application into UNIX Servers using Nolio and Manually.  • Used JRebel Plugin to reduce the server redeploys when code changes made  • Merging/maintaining code using repository systems such as GIT  • Using JUNIT and Mockito for Testing.  • Used Cobalt platform for testing our application  Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, JQuery, AJAX, GWT, GWT/GXT, JavaScript, Angular.JS, Node .JS , React .JS, PL/SQL, JDBC, Rest, Eclipse, AWS, Cloud Foundry, Web logic, Clear Case, Junit, Agile, UML JSP, JSTL, Servlet, Maven, SOA. Java Developer Verizon Communications - Silver Spring, MD March 2017 to March 2017 Description: Verizon Communications Inc. operates as a holding company, which provides broadband and other wireless and wireline communications services to consumer, business, and government and retail customers. It also provides converged communications, information and entertainment services over America's most advanced fiber-optic network, and delivers integrated business solutions to customers. It is also a retailer for the mobile devices with connection.  Responsibilities:  • Designed, coded, implemented, optimization and tested new features and modules for the derivatives system as part of an Agile team and improved automation test suites.  • Involved in Designing and Developing Single Page web applications (SPA) using AngularJS, and NodeJS with other UI technologies/ libs such as Backbone, jQuery, Bootstrap 3 and HTML5.  • Wrote GWT code to create presentation layer using GWT widgets and event handlers.  • Custom Node.js proxy used to simulate API responses before client implementation was complete, and to proxy requests to finished client APIs, handling authentication, custom headers, virtual application root, etc.  • Developed Swing, Spring and J2EE based MVC (Model-View-Controller) framework for the application.  • Employed Spring Boot for initialize & bootstrapping the build configuration for the boot based web applications.  • Involved in batch processing using Spring Batch framework to validate feed files and load data into corresponding EBX5 tables.  • Configured the Web sphere application server to connect with Oracle Server in the back end by creating JDBC data source and configured MQ Series and JMS Queues with IBM RAD and WAS to create new connection factories and queues.  • Developed several REST web services which produces both XML and JSON to perform tasks, leveraged by both web and mobile applications.  • Exposed and consumed SOAP based Web Services to communicate between systems and used SOAP UI Pro version for testing the Web Services.  • Involved in deploying systems on AWS Infrastructure services EC2, S3, RDS, SQS, Cloud Formation.  • Used Docker for creating Docker images for launching containers on AWS EC2.  • Worked Integration of AWS, Elastic Search, Beanstalk and Docker with Kubernetes.  • Extensively Used Jenkins as Continuous Integration tool to deploy Spring Boot Microservices to Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF) using build pack. Used Pivotal Cloud Foundry to quickly build, deploy & update the applications.  • Used log4j for logging and SVN for version control.  • Used JMS for reliable and asynchronous exchange of valuable information such as payment status report.  • Extensively worked on Redshift database development with copying data from S3, Insert Bulk records, create schema, cluster, tables and tune the queries for better performance.  • Composed and executed MongoDB scripts and queries to fetch and test data from NoSQL databases.  • Developed Unit test cases using JUnit, Mockito and Easy mock.  • Oversaw all aspects of testing JUnit, FIT, and SIT, End to End, Regression, User acceptance and Performance.  • Used JMeter to test performance of SOAP protocol.  ENVIRONMENT: ReactJS, jQuery, CSS/LESS, HTML5, JSP, AJAX, CSS3, Backbone, Bootstrap, GWT, Swing, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, REST, Pivotal Cloud Foundry, Redshift database, EC2, S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Java Messaging Services (JMS), MongoDB, JUnit, Mockito, JMeter, SIT, Jenkins, Maven, Kubernetes. Sr. Java Developer Viacom - New York, NY September 2014 to July 2016 Description: Viacom is a renowned mass Media company, mainly into Movie and Cable television industries. It is one of the largest broadcasting and Cable Company globally. Worked on their application NEWSL that collect subscriptions across all the Viacom websites and stores it in a centralized database. Responsibilities:  • Involved in design and development of a multi module Java, Scala, spring and Hibernate project in developing UI components, services, rules and workflows with JBPM.  • Involved in Front End development including HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Designed and developed application using Data Structures and algorithms.  • Used the Agile methodology iterative process for each of the module in the project.  • Developed application in Spring Boot Framework.  • Bean configuration has been performed using spring context.  • Hibernate has been used as the ORM framework in the project using JPA for connecting to Oracle.  • Developed advance stored procedure, functions and custom on Oracle DB.  • Module management using Maven and POM configuration.  • Understanding Integration scenarios develop Angular structure according to the UI specifications and product requirements given by the client.  • Written Test Cases, Scripts and used Selenium for Testing.  • Helped in creation of in time build and releases (Manual and Jenkins).  • Used GitHub repository to submit code changes that are in turn reviewed by the dev leads before they are merged to the branch before production and used bower, npm.  • Used Jira to capture and assign the issues and to follow-up on team activity.  • Handled cross browser/platform compatibility issues (Firefox, Chrome, Opera and Safari) on both Windows and Mac.  • Used elastic search java API through maven dependency.  • Developing Web Services Using REST.  • Used Chrome Networking tools to monitor performance and chrome developer tools to debug the JavaScript files.  • Used Open Stack cloud services for database connectivity to Oracle in PAAS environment.  • Write unit tests after the development of a feature has been done to check for any build fails and reduce Bugs in new features or the existing features.  Environment: java, Spring, Hibernate, HTML 5, CSS 3, DOM, Gradle, Apache Camel, XHTML, Jenkins, GIT, Angular.js, CSS3 (sass), Ajax, Node.js, JavaScript, MS Office, Jira. Java Developer USAA - San Antonio, TX November 2012 to August 2014 Description: United Services Automobile Association provides banking and financial products and services for the military community in the United States. The company offers banking products and services comprising checking and savings accounts, and certificates of deposit; auto and personal loans, as well as motorcycle, recreational vehicle, and boat loans; credit cards and home mortgages; extended vehicle protection and car buying services; and credit and identity protection.  Responsibilities:  • J2EE deployment on WebLogic/JBOSS servers - QA & Staging  • Troubleshooting issues that may occur during the test cycle (Functional & load test) for the J2EE applications on Struts and Spring framework running on WebLogic/JBOSS servers.  • Developed services that are reusable and interoperable, based on SOAP, WSDL, JAXWS, JAXRPC Web services.  • Well versed with core Java concepts like Collections, Swing, Serialization and Servlets & JSP.  • Developed POJO objects and used Hibernate as the Object-Relational Mapping (ORM) tool to access the persistent data from SQL Server.  • Hands-on writing Stored Procedures, functions, triggers, DDL, DML SQL queries. Experience in writing SQL, PL/SQL programming and SQL Loader.  • Worked on Hibernate object relational mapping according to database schema.  • Did load testing of SOAP Web Services using SOAP UI and Apache JMeter tools.  • Implemented Internationalization using Spring MVC Interceptors and spring core modules.  • Implemented the MVC architecture using Backbone.js, NodeJs and Angular.js, ReactJS.  • Used Spring Validation framework to implement the server-side validations and used Ext JS AJAX to get the data from the server asynchronously by using JSON objects.  • Effective use of data structures and algorithms to solve complex problems, reducing time complexity and memory usage.  • Delivered mobile app for book reading capability with HTML5 Sencha and online services with Flash/Flex.  • Technology leadership for the direction of the Cloud based application using Node.JS, PDFJS, MongoDB and MS SQL Server integrating to a proprietary framework.  • Used JMS ( Java Mailing Service) API to mail notifications upon the success or failure when the backend processes are completed and to send mail notifications regarding any system related problems.  • Defined collections to store data in MongoDB.  • Developed user interface using JSP with JavaBeans, JSTL and Custom Tag Libraries, JS, CSS, JQuery, Node.js, HTML, SASS and Ajax to speed the application.  • Prepared and presented UNIX production and implementation schedules to the Project Manager and client.  • Wrote PL/SQL Queries, stored procedures, triggers and prepared statements.  • Responsible for developing the connection pooling for Filenet Server implementing spring framework concepts such as Transaction management and DAO support.  • National level complex problem-solving competition, using JAVA, Data Structures and Algorithms.  • Built Web pages those are more user-interactive using jQuery plugins for Drag and Drop, jqValidator, AutoComplete, AJAX, JSON, Angular JS, and Node.JS.  • Implemented Screen Navigation using JQuery and Spring MVC.  • Developed Business components using Java Objects, Core Java, Multithreading, Servlets, and JSP.  • Involved in creating dynamic web site design and programming using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Developed cross browser compatibility code using CSS and jQuery.  • Built HTML5 and CSS system for controlling text display issues cross-platform and cross browser.  • Develop batch processes for financial reporting applications and modules using Perl and Korn shell scripts on Oracle database, with partitions and sub-partitions.  • Developed Test classes using JUnit and Easy Mock and test coverage using EMMA plug-in.  Environment: Java, J2EE, JDK 1.5, UNIX, JBoss 3.0, Spring core, MongoDB, JMeter, Swing, Hibernate, Core java, Perl, Spring MVC, Hibernate, SOAP/Rest Web services, Filenet, Ajax, XML, jQuery, Ext JS, HTML5, CSS, TC Server, SASS, JAX-B, SVN, Maven, Jenkins, Splunk, SFX, Splunk, Angular JS, React JS, Node JS. Java Developer Jackson National Life Insurance Company - Lansing, MI November 2010 to September 2012 Description: Jackson National Life Insurance Company provides life insurance and institutional products in the United States. It offers a range of retirement solutions, including variable, fixed, and fixed index annuities; and institutional products, such as medium-term notes, funding agreements, and guaranteed investment contracts.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the design and development phases of Agile Software Development.  • Analyzed current Mainframe system and designed new GUI screens.  • Developed the application using 3 Tier Architecture I.e. Presentation, Business and Data Integration layers in accordance with the customer/client standards.  • Automate report generation in MongoDB using JavaScript, shell scripting, java.  • Played a vital role in Scala framework for web based applications  • Used Filenet for Content Management and for streamlining Business Processes.  • Created Responsive Layouts for multiple devices and platforms using foundation framework.  • Implemented printable chart report using HTML5, CSS3 and jQuery.  • Applied JavaScript for client-side form validation.  • Worked on UNIX, LINUX to move the project into production environment.  • Created Managed Beans for handling JSF pages and include logic for processing of the data on the page.  • Used Object/Relational mapping tool Hibernate to achieve object to database table persistency.  • Worked with Core Java to develop automated solutions to include web interfaces using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and Web services.  • Created simple user interface for application's configuration system using MVC design patterns and swing framework.  • Developed web GUI involving HTML, Node JS, Java Script under MVC architecture.  • Creation of WebLogic domains and setup Admin & Managed servers for JAVA/J2EE applications on Non-Production and Production environments.  • Involved in the configuration of Spring Framework and Hibernate mapping tool.  • Monitoring WebLogic/JBoss Server health and security.  • Creation of Connection Pools, Data Sources in WebLogic console.  • Implemented Hibernate for Database Transactions on DB2.  • Written Web Services (JAX-WS) for external system via SOAP/HTTP call.  • Used Log4j framework to log/track application.  • Involved in developing SQL queries, stored procedures, and functions.  • Creating and updating existing build scripts using Ant for deployment Tested and implemented/deployed application on WAS 6.1 server.  • Used Rational Clear Case for Version Control.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, FileNet, IBM RAD 6.0, Scala, Java 1.5, JSP, Servlets, Core Java, Spring, Swing, Hibernate, JSF, ICE Faces, Hibernate, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, NodeJs, UNIX, Web Services- SOAP, WAS 6.1, XML, IBM WebSphere 6.1, Rational Clear Case, Log 4j, IBM DB2. Java Developer Axis Bank - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2009 to October 2010 Description: Evolent Health is comprised of an experienced and committed group of health care professionals, unified by a passion for transforming the way health care is delivered and experienced in America.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for the technical design, development, unit and integration testing.  • Followed agile software development with Sprint methodology.  • Attending daily stand up meetings.  • Designed front end using JSF, JSP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed code using Design Patterns like Singleton, Abstract Factory, Factory Pattern, Singleton and Prototype.  • Used OOPS concepts for message passing and data binding.  • Responsible for developing the functionality end to end. It includes UI design, Business development in backend, writing Unit Test cases and Integration Testing.  • Writing complex queries to fulfil the requirements.  • Used log4J for enabling logging and debugging at the runtime.  • Handling dependencies using WebSphere Seam configurations.  • Used Hibernate as the persistent side frameworks.  • Wrote Test cases with JUnit and tested the code coverage.  • Created the SVN Repository and managed the central file repository.  • Understanding the customer requirements, mapping them to functional requirements and creating Requirement Specifications.  • Used HQL, Criteria queries to perform all the required CRUD operations against the MySQL.  • Deployed Enterprise JavaBeans (EJB) using stateful and stateless beans.  • Closely worked with Product Managers and Business Analysts to understand the Stories.  • Created application using STS IDE.  • Used XML Web services for transferring data between different applications.  • Creating class and sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Configured Maven dependencies for application building processes that created Pom.xml files.  • Generated API documentation in HTML Format using Java docs.  • Developed server-side services using Web Services like SOAP.  Environment: Java, JSF, JSP, Servlets, EJB, Hibernate, Webservices, Maven, log4j, Linux, JUnit, WebSphere, MySQL, STS, SVN, Java docs, Rational Rose, XML. Education Bachelor's Skills JAVA (8 years), CSS (8 years), WEB SERVICES (8 years), HTML (8 years), JAVASCRIPT (8 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Java/J2EE Technologies Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JDBC, JMS, JNDI, RMI, EJB, JFC/Swing, AWT, Applets, Multi-threading, Java Networking  Programming Languages Java Java/J2EE, C, C++, JDBC, DTD, UML, Design Patterns, ANT, Shell Scripts, HTML, PHP, JavaScript, SQL and PL/SQL  Application/Web Servers Apache Tomcat 5.x/4.x, IBM WebSphere, BEA WebLogic  Web technologies HTML, CSS, DHTML, Servlets, JSPs, EJB, JNDI, JMS, XML, XSLT, XSD, JSF, jQuery, Ajax, AngularJS, Angular 2, Node Js, React Js, JSON.  Web Services AXIS, SOAP, JAX-WS, WSDL, JAX-P, JAX-B and Restful  Database Servers Oracle 8i/9i/10g, DB2, SQL Server MySQL