College Partnership Program, Java Developer College Partnership Program, <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> College Partnership Program, Java Developer Work Experience College Partnership Program, Java Developer Wakefern Foods - Edison, NJ February 2019 to May 2019 Worked alongside the Point of Sales (POS) team to create an automatic scanner for checkout using Java and IntelliJ IDE  ? Provided support to the team and worked on a Shoprite POS software and hardware  ? Implemented a feature that recorded the amount of time spent by each consumer at the register in Java  ? Connected store inventory database using MongoDB to be used with auto scanner software  ? Wrote and ran unit tests using JUnit and mockito  ? Stored and presented user experience data to the POS team School of Engineering IT Help Desk Rutgers University - Piscataway, NJ September 2014 to May 2019 School of Engineering IT Support  ? Provided support and troubleshoot hardware/software issues from Rutgers students and facility  ? Managed and updated the user database of engineering students and graduates  ? Worked done mainly on Ubuntu Linux and Windows OS Vice President and Co-founder Games Society September 2014 to May 2019 Global POS Developer Intern Tiffany and Co., Parsipanny, NJ May 2018 to August 2018 Provided support for the company's mobile POS software, internationally and domestically  ? Implemented updates and changes to multiple store servers  ? Created scripts in Powershell to help automate tasks  ? Resolved incidences and incorporated changes in ServiceNow system Rutgers University October 2016 to December 2017 Designed an Android app to keep track of ingredient price trends at local supermarkets using user input  ? Implemented a graphical user interface using Java within Android Studio  ? Created a recipe price calculator which displays the cheapest dish, given the current ingredient prices    EXTRACURRICULARS/AWARDS: Rutgers University January 2017 to January 2017 Developed a keylogger using C++ that recorded a user's keystrokes consisting of ANSI characters  ? Extended the robustness by enabling the program to be able to detect and run on Windows, MacOS, and Linux HackRU April 2015 to April 2015 HackRU: 2nd place for Optum Category for app design April 2017 Education Bachelors of Arts in Computer Science Rutgers University - New Brunswick, NJ September 2014 to May 2019 Skills Eclipse, Java, Git, Html, Javascript, Python, Sql, Css Additional Information SKILLS:  Languages: Java, Python, SQL, HTML, JavaScript, CSS  Tools: Unity Engine, Eclipse, IDLE, ServiceNow, Jupyter Notebook, Git