Senior Java Developer Senior <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Java Developer - Comcast West Chester, PA • 8years of Experience in Java/ J2EE development in all phases of Software development life cycle including Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Implementation, and Documentation.  • Very strong knowledge in Object Oriented Analysis and Designing, Object oriented programming and Design Patterns.  • Experience in development of applications using java Java/J2EE web applications using Java, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, Struts, Spring, EJB, JMS, AJAX.  • Excellent knowledge and experience of developing applications with Model View Architecture (MVC) using Struts framework, spring framework.  • Experienced in creative and effective front-end development using JSP, JSP Tag Libraries, Servlets, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, ANT, Maven, jQuery, Ajax and CSS.  • Hands on experience on Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST API s and Spring Boot for micro-services.  • Build microservices using spring boot for the delivery of software products across the enterprise.  • Experience in Front End Technologies: JSP, HTML, Rich faces, Bootstrap, jQuery and Angular 2.0, Angular 4.  • Experience in CSS pixel-level layout, Consistency with browsers, Version and Platform Independence.  • Experience in Requirement gathering & analysis, designing UML - for developing application specific Object model, Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams & State diagrams.  • Have extensive experience in building and deploying applications on Web/Application Servers like JBoss, WebLogic, WebSphere, Glassfish and Tomcat.  • Experienced in configuring of build files with ANT, Maven and logging using log4J.  • Experience in XML technologies like XSL/XSLT, SAX, DOM, SOAP, WSDL, DTD, Schema, SOA, JAXB, and JAXP.  • Experience in Service Oriented Architecture using Web Services like SOAP & Restful.  • Experienced in writing simple Stored Procedures, understanding complex Stored Procedures and performance tuning of SQL Queries.  • Experience in Design and Development of custom software solutions, and Re-engineering to enhance existing frameworks to work with newer technologies  • Developed and deployed EJBs on BEAWebLogic 8.0/7.1 application server.  • Extensive experience in SOAP, XML and WSDL (Web Services)  • Pleasant experienced git in Version control using CVS, SVN.  • Experience in using Junit for unit testing and Test-Driven Development.  • Strong command on Bug tracking tools like Bugzilla and other like Quality Center.  • Hands on experience in giving Production and Deployment Support.  • Experience on Iterative development using Agile Scrum Methodology included iterative application development, weekly Sprints, stand up meetings and customer reporting backlogs. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Java Developer Comcast - West Chester, PA April 2017 to Present Project Description: Einstein application that is used by call centre agents to resolve customer issues. Call centre agents can load the account and see customer information like, bill statements, payment information, devices/services used by the customer. Using Einstein application, agents can also help customers in troubleshooting their issues with their internet/TV/Voice/Home security connections using interactive trouble shooting guides feature available in Einstein application. Agents can also access a payment widget to help setup automatic payments scheduling or accept a payment.    Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile/Scrum methodology to iterate quickly on product changes, developing user stories and working through backlog, used Rally to record and monitor the stories and backlogs.  • Involved in functional requirement discussions with product team and converted the functional requirements to technical requirements.  • Prepared Technical scoping, high level design and low-level design documents for new features of the application.  • Coordinated closely with Architecture team to get the scope and design reviewed and signed off.  • Implemented Micro Services based on Cloud Architecture using Spring Boot.  • Designed and developed applications using Spring boot, Spring REST, Spring Security, Spring Data and Spring Cloud Config Server.  • Implemented RESTful and SOAP based web services.  • Used Couchbase DB for caching the data so that can retrieve faster.  • Developed Unit Tests using JUNIT, Mockito and Rest Assured.  • Migrating existing application into Rest based microservices to provide all the CRUD capabilities using spring boot.  • Using spring core annotations for spring DI and spring MVC for REST API spring boot for micro services.  • Developed Gradle build scripts to automate building of applications.  • Deployed and ran applications on PCF (Pivotal cloud Foundry) using cf commands and manifests files and used to Monitor, Restart, Restage and Bind the services to apps using CF UI.  • Automated and streamlined build-test-release cycle by using CI/CD tool GoCD.  • Have exposure to ELK stack (Elastic, Logstash and Kibana) and used to debug prod issues by querying logs on Kibana.  • Experience of AWS Elastic Block Storage (EBS), different volume types and use of several types ofEBS volumes based on requirement.  • Developed and designed web pages using with HTML5, CSS3, Ajax, Angular4 and jQuery based on the w3 standards.  • Validations are done using SoapUI, Postman and Ready API testing tool framework in different environments.  • Used GitHub for source control and helped team with code management process.  • Learned about Cable/Telecom/Wireless services and got a good exposure on authenticating customers, understanding customer plan/packages information, billing information, device provisioning and troubleshooting device issues and etc.    Environment: Spring Boot, Spring Core, Groovy, Spring IOC, Spring REST, Spring Data, Microservices, Rest Assured, Junit, Gradle, Couchbase DB, Pivotal Cloud Foundry, GitHub, GoCD, SOAPUI, Ready API, POSTMan, Rally Senior Java Developer Mastercard - O'Fallon, MO January 2016 to April 2017 Project Description: The E-Service Online project is designed and developed for MasterCard Worldwide customers. The Online Reports application to provide MasterCard customers an online view into their mandatory as well as optional reports. MasterCard customer user can request access to the Online Reports tool including the ability to view/export/print specific mandatory and/or options reports. The Online Reports tool receives and loads reports into eService database. The reports are received from the provider systems. This tool has billing feed process to provide accuracy & flexibility to handle various kinds of billing models.  Responsibilities:    • Involved in designing, developing, bug fixing, documenting and unit testing the application.  • Implemented MVC pattern using Spring MVC.  • Implemented interceptors to check things like Terms & Conditions and Customer Hierarchy at login.  • Developed Business logic with the help of spring and Data Access was implemented by using Hibernate.  • Used spring framework in the development of a business bean and to interact with the Hibernate ORM tool.  • Handled the security and Authorization using Spring Security and OAuth authentication Protocol.  • Performed CRUD operations like Update, Insert and Delete data in MongoDB.  • Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, replication and schema design etc.  • Implemented DAO pattern to work with the database.  • Developed different dynamic UI Screens using HTML, jQuery and JavaScript.  • Wrote application level code to add functionality to the perform client-side validation usingAngular2 and JavaScript.  • Understanding, Analyzing the Business requirement, developing the Require Components.  • Involved in development and of support search, pricing and order management services.  • Collaborated with technical team members to integrate back-end and front-end elements.  • Product development was in an Agile (SCRUM) methodology, where progress and task assignment are discussed in everyday meetings.  • Implemented unit testing using JUnit.  • Used Maven for building and managing dependencies of the application.  • Used SVN (Subversion) for version control.  Environment: Java 1.8, J2EE, Spring MVC, jQuery, Log4J, OAuth, Eclipse, Micro services, WebLogic, Maven, JUnit, SVN, MongoDB, Ajax, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery. Senior Java Developer UnitedHealth Group - Salt Lake City, UT November 2014 to December 2015 Project Description: Optum provisioning allows internal teams to provision users to get access to various organizations, services through accounts. For example, organization can be an insurance organization and services can be diverse types of insurance coverages. This web application controls user access using distinct roles like admin, organization admin, service admin etc. Various micro-services are developed as a part of this web application development like Data Connection Management system, provisioning service - to move away from monolithic architecture to micro-services architecture.  Responsibilities:  • Participating in Design, planning and implementation of the project.  • Designed and developed rich front-end screens using JSF (Ice faces), JSP, Docker, CSS, HTML, AngularJS and jQuery.  • Developed Managed beans and defined Navigation rules for the application using JSF.  • Worked on generating the web services classes by using SOA, WSDL, UDDI and SOAP.  • Responsible for developing Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams and process flow diagrams for the modules using UML and Rational Rose.  • Configured the Hibernate mapping files for mapping the domain objects to the database tables and their corresponding properties to the table columns.  • Queries for accessing data were built using the Hibernate API.  • Hibernate Session Factory, hibernate mapping files, dependencies between delegate classes, DAOs, controller classes, validation classes and the domain Objects are configured as part of the Spring configuration file.  • Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of essential information such as payment status report to MQ Server using MQ Series.  • Worked with JMS for reliable exchange of information across applications.  • Used Restful Web Services to retrieve data from different applications.  • Consumed Restful Web service to pull the customer information.  • Developed XML documents for storing user specific information, which includes various options selected by the user.  • Used RAD as IDE for development, build, deployment and testing the application.  • Used Log4j framework for logging the application.  • Used Maven for build and deployment.  • Used SVN as a version control tool and used WebSphere server.  • Performed some Unit Testing on the application and the web services before its release to QA.  • Tested the whole module using SOAPUI.  • Involved in writing database connection classes for interacting with Oracle database. Incorporated Singleton Pattern to implement the database access classes.  Environment: JDK 1.7, JSF 1.2/2.0, Ice Faces 3.0, Spring 3.0, Hibernate 4.0, JMS, Web Services (Restful), Maven, TDD (Test-driven development), Singleton Design pattern, SVN, JSP, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular JS, jQuery, Agile, SQL, WebSphere, AWS, JUnit and Log4j. Java Developer Walmart - Bentonville, AR June 2013 to October 2014 Project Description: Distribution Center Allocation is an internally developed application where demands of the store are collected and sent to vendors. This was a spring MVC based application with oracle as the backend database. On this project I was heavily involved in writing several new business components like order Replenishment, order Fulfillment picking and Packing. One of my major contribution was to create several new DAOs using hibernate for persisting and querying data in our shipment database. Created several Restful web services like get Shipment Details, get Backorder Status etc. DCA receives shipment details and run the allocation based on demands of the stores. Internal algorithms for allocation are defined. The goods then reach Warehouse Management Center (WMC) for receiving respective barcodes. For this project I was involved right from the analysis phase to the delivery for several third-party customers like Nature's Own, Faded Glory etc. I also worked closely with the BA and project manager as development coordinator  Responsibilities:  • Involved in designing the overall System Architecture of Project based on MVC (Model View Controller), Struts Framework, Spring Framework and J2EE specifications.  • Configured Java environment and Programmed on Linux operating system.  • Developed JSP pages for presentation layer using Struts 1.2. Also, client-side validations using Struts Validate framework/ JavaScript.  • Development methodology used was the agile methodology. Process included iterative development, 2-week sprints, and daily stand.  • Extensively used Hibernate POJOS, Spring Annotations, Spring AOP and Spring DAO.  • Used spring framework IOC and AOP modules for injections and interceptions.  • Involved in core java technologies multithreading, exception handling.  • Used Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping.  • Implemented the business logic writing Struts action components and configuring XML files using Struts, spring and Hibernate framework.  • Developed SQL to pull out various combination closing fee details.  • Developed various user screen using JSP, HTML and JavaScript.  • Performed problem analysis and fixed Prod issues.  • Used Glassfish as application server for some of the web applications.  • Participated in environment stabilization meeting and closed defect quickly.  • Coordinated the overall execution of the test plan with Development and business representatives.  Environment: Java 1.6, JSP, HTML, JavaScript, XML, CSS, Eclipse IDE, JBoss AS 7.0 & Spring MVC 3.0, AJAX and JQuery, Struts, SVN, JDBC, JIRA and Oracle 11g. Java Developer Allied Insurance Company March 2012 to May 2013 Description: The project includes development of billing solutions to help different telecom providers to deal efficiently with account creation and billing process for their end users and to provide analysis of data to discover frequent patterns of customers.  Responsibilities:    • Involved in Design, Development, Testing and Integration of the application.  • Designing JSP using Java Beans.  • Used HTML, DHTML, Java script and AJAX for implementing dynamic media play outs.  • Involved in preparation of scope and traceability matrix for requirements and test scripts.  • Implementing business logic and data base connectivity.  • Client-side installation and configuration of project.  • Implemented Struts (Action and Controller classes) for dispatching request to appropriate class.  • Used simple Struts Validation for validation of user input as per the business logic and initial data loading.  • Co-ordinate Application testing with the help of testing team.  • Writing database queries on Oracle 9i and Involved in the JDBC queries as part of implementation  • Ability to quickly adjust priorities and take on projects with limited specifications.  • Maintained a separate DAO layer for CRUD operations.  • Effective team player with excellent logical and analytical abilities.  • Followed coding guidelines and update the status leads in time.  • Supported the applications through production and maintenance releases.  • Involved in Level 5 company assessment & followed the process.  • Instrumental in tuning the framework to meet the performance standards.  • Excellent written and verbal communication skills, inter-personal skills and self-learning attitude.  • Excellent in designing and developing store procedures  • Involved in writing JUNIT test cases and Code version controlling using SVN.  • Involved in building the code using Ant and the deployment.    Environment: Core Java (J2SE 1.4), JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, HTML, UML, CSS, EJB, Java Beans,  JUnit, CVS, JDeveloper, Groovy, Multithreading, Apache Tomcat Web Server, Oracle WebLogic,  Application Server, Eclipse IDE, Oracle. Java Developer Infor Global Solutions Pvt. Ltd September 2010 to March 2012 Description: Automotive manufacturers need to onboard suppliers as quickly as possible, no matter where they are based, and share electronic data interchange (EDI) documents and details as easily as possible. With Infor Automotive Exchange, your business becomes an integral, synchronized part of your customer's supply chain. You can direct your supply to reduce risk and improve profitability, know what your customers require immediately, and track and manage transactional information within a single integrated solution.  Responsibilities:  • Designed the workflow for the client side and server side in UML using Rational Unified Process (RUP) and created detail Design documentation.  • Involved in walk through with the analysis for Use Cases and feasibility scope.  • Designed Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Object Diagrams, using IBM Rational Rose to model the detail design of the application.  • Developed front-end using JSPs, HTML and used JavaScript for client-side validations.  • Implemented Session beans that encapsulate the backend business processes.  • Used JMS ( Java Messaging Service) for asynchronous communication between different modules.  • Used XML, WSDL, UDDI, SOAP, SAX parser and Web Services for communicating data between different applications.  • Developed the User Interfaces using JSP, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Developed logging module-using Log4J to create log files to debug as well as trace application.  • Used CVS for version control across common source code used by developers.  • Tested the application functionality with JUnitTest Cases.  • Used ANT scripts for automated deployment and preparing the build of the entire application.  • Deployed the applications on IBM WebLogic Application Server.  • Completely documented the flow and functionality of the code for further reference.    Environment: Java, J2EE, WSAD, Hibernate, Swing, SPRING, Struts, Servlets, JSP, JNDI, XML Web Services, SOAP, WSDL, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Windows XP, DB2 UDB, JUnit, CVS, ANT, Log4J. Education Bachelor's in technology Satyabhama University June 2010 Skills JAVA (8 years), JUNIT (6 years), JAVASCRIPT (6 years), WEB SERVICES (5 years), AJAX (5 years), Java J2Ee, Spring, Hibernate, J2Ee, Rest, Angular, Node, React, C#, Jquery, Nodejs Additional Information Technical Skills:  Operating Systems Windows XP/Vista/7/10, Linux, Unix  Languages Java, C, C++, UML, SQL, PL/SQL  J2EE Technologies JSP, JSF, JNDI, JDBC, Servlets, EJB, JPA, Java Beans  Frameworks Spring 4.3, Spring Boot, Hibernate 4.3.0, JSF  Web Technologies HTML5, XML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON  Databases Oracle 8.x/9.x/10g/11g/12c, Toad, MS Access, MySQL 5.x, MS SQL Server 2008/2012, MongoDB, Cassandra, DB2 Forac  Web Servers Apache Tomcat, IBM Web Sphere 7.0/6.0, BEA Web Logic, IBM WebSphere, 11g/10.3/8.1, JBoss 5.1/6.0/7.0  Build Tools Ant, Maven, Gradle, Jenkins  Web Services XML, SOAP, REST, WSDL  Tools and IDEs Eclipse, Spring Tool Suite (STS), IBM RAD, IltelliJ, NetBeans IDE, MS Visio, StarUML, Jenkins, Maven, JIRA, Gradle, Postman.  Testing Tools JUnit, Easy Mock, JMock, Mockito.  Version Control SVN, CVS, JIRA, Clear Case, GIT, Bitbucket, GitHub.