Controller Controller Controller - AIG Capital Services • Energetic individual with almost7 years of experience in UI design, development, coding, testing and implementation of various projects.  • Having strong knowledge in coding with latest web technologies, frameworks like Angular 2, Angular 4, Angular 5, ReactJs, Node.jsand strong experience in developing Responsive Design UI development.  • Hand full of experience in the basics and essential web technologies such asHTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, JSON, XML, AJAX and JQuery which helps in building plain and simple web application.  • Mastery in CSS Box Model, Pseudo-elements, Navigation, Selectors, Animations and experienced working with the CSS preprocessor LESS and SASS to build the DRY code.  • Well-versed in the Object-OrientedProgramming (OOP) concepts like Objects, Functions as Classes, Methods, Constructors, Inheritance, Polymorphism, Abstraction, Encapsulation with JavaScript and the Typescript.  • Expertise using AJAX to create interactive web applications and adopted using XML and JSON as data interchanging formats, to store structured data.  • Good understanding of Document Object Model (DOM), Advanced JavaScript and Standards of ECMAScript versions.  • Experience onSingle Page Application development, working with Directives, Services, Filters, Guard and Validations in the Angular 2, Angular 4 and Angular 5.  • Highly experienced with Node.js (Server side), Express (Web server Framework), MongoDB (Database) as a software stack.  • Expert in deploying the code through application servers like WebSphere/Web Logic/Apache Tomcat/JBoss.  • Extensive working experience with various J2EE Frameworks like Struts, SpringMVC, JSF and proficient knowledge on springframework modules like Spring Batch, Spring Security, Spring Data, Spring Boot, SpringCloud, SpringJTA, SpringAOP, SpringCore.  • Experience in Transaction implementation, Servlets, JMS, JavaBeans, XML, Web Services, Microservices, JNDI, Multithreading Executor Services etc.,  • Had experience in developing RestfulServices and Web Service Clients (JAX-RS or JAX-WS) with data representation in different formats such as XML and JSON.  • Installed and configured required software for application development (RAD, Oracle database) WebSphere, Tomcat, plugin's for Eclipse, required framework jars.  • Experienced in Routing, RXJS and REST API's to build the dynamic web applications.  • Involved in utilizing the task runners like Grunt, Gulp.  • Much familiar with the different IDE's such as Visual studio, Eclipse, Intellij and the version controls SVN, Gitand Putty.  • Experience in developing MicroservicesArchitecture using Springboot.  • Responsive in developing the ReactJs applications with reusable components, Forms, Event handlers, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Good understanding and implementation knowledge on deploying the application using Heroku.  • Implemented Heroku Cloud platform-as-a-service (PaaS) for building the node-based backend, monitoring and scaling the applications  • Experience in SQL and PL/SQL for database queries, table connections, database development, indexes, triggers, stored procedures and worked on Oracle 11g and MySQL databases.  • Experience with JavaScript unit testing framework like Karma, Jasmine with debugging skills.  • Experienced in debugging and troubleshooting the existing code using chrome developer toolbar and able to identify problems in the initial stages and execute quick resolutions.  • Participation in Systems Development Life-Cycle (SDLC) and great ability to write clear, reusable, well maintained, documented and efficient code for web development.  • Experienced in working in Waterfall and AGILEmethodologies-based development environment  • Self-motivated Team player with excellent interpersonal and communicational skills.  • Excellent logical and critical thinking abilities with a sharp expectation to learn and adapt, understand new strategies.  TECHNICIAL SKILLS  Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, LESS, SASS, XML, AJAX, JSON, JavaScript, Typescript, JQuery  Programming Languages C, Java, Python, PL/SQL  Frameworks & Libraries AngularJS, Angular 2/4/5/6, Bootstrap, Node.js, ReactJs  Application Servers Web Logic, WebSphere, Tomcat, JBoss  Databases Oracle 10g, Oracle 11g, SQL, MySQL, MongoDB Work Experience Controller AIG Capital Services - Woodland Hills, CA March 2017 to Present Woodland Hills, CA March 2017 - Present  Role: Full Stack JavaDeveloper    Responsibilities:  • Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud Microservices and develop spring-based application with very less configuration.  • Implementing Spring MVC with Spring Boot which includes writing Controller classes for handling requests, processing form submissions and performed validations.  • Developed Micro Service to provide Restful API utilizing Spring Boot with various data persistence frameworks such Hibernate, JPA and messaging engines.  • Using Spring's MVC framework to better control the presentation, business and navigational aspects of the applications  • Increased efficiency of environment setup to become 80% faster by using Spring Boot&Maven to simplify configuration, development, and deployment.  • Integration with spring security in web application.  • Development of web modules and middleware components using AWS and spring integration.  • Developing Single page application (SPA) using the latest technologies like Angular5, Typescript, Bootstrap, JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5.  • Worked onRe-usable components and routing to implement navigation between the components using Angular framework.  • Facilitates Angular components like modules, controllers, built-in and customized directives, Pipes and using Bootstrap created application Mockups.  • Implemented applications with Lazy Loading concept to decrease the initial payload time and downloading time for the application.  • Developed Restfulweb services (Microservices) supporting both XML and JSON (Jackson) via Spring Rest Template.  • Installed and configured required software for application development (RAD, Oracle database) WebSphere, Tomcat, plugins for Eclipse, required framework jars.  • Developed all the page styles by using Bootstrap and LESS to gain better structure of style sheets for maintenance purpose.  • Used shared Services to transfer the data between sibling components.  • Used Angular Life Cycle hooks to the application for adding more functionality to components at phase of the component creation.  • Used HTTP methods in services to communicate and retrieval of data from the API.  • Developed server-side software modules and client-side user interface components deployed entirely in Compute Cloud of Amazon Web Services (AWS)  • Used spring boot Actuator to externalize application configuration properties for different environments.  • Experienced in handling Version Control Systems like SVN and GIT.  • Experienced in build tools like Ant and Maven, Log4j for Logging and Junit, Mockitofor testing.  • Involved in AgileScrumMethodology and Test-Driven Development (TDD) for the software development process to produce high quality application  • Used Jenkins for CI/CD Continuous Implementation and Continuous Delivery.  • Worked as per Agile Methodology (Scrum) to meet customer expectation, timelines with quality deliverables.    Environment: Java 1.8, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, WebSphere, JavaScript, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring Annotations, Groovy, Angular 5/6, Restful Web Services, JQuery, GitHub, AWS, NPM, Microservices, Mongo DB, Tomcat Server. Cox Communications December 2015 to February 2017 Dec 2015 - Feb 2017  Role: Full Stack JavaDeveloper    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle including gathering Requirements, Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance.  • Developed Spring Framework based Restful Web Services for handling and persisting of requests and Spring MVC for returning response to presentation tier.  • Created and injected Spring Services, Spring Controllers and DAOs to achieve dependency injection and to wire objects of business classes.  • Designed and developed application using Spring Framework-IOC/DI, Spring MVC, Servlets, POJO and EJB integrating with Hibernate framework.  • Used Spring Batch for processing large amount of data like transaction management, job processing, resource management and logging.  • Configuring and working the routes and queryparameters to implementing the single page application (SPA) with Programmatic Navigation.  • Used GIT for version control software along with Jenkins and implemented CICD for automating tasks using scripts.  • Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Displaying Data on the machine withdirectives, binding properties, Event handling and Custom Pipes.  • Performed the client-sideauthentication and authorization, JSON Web Tokens (JWT), Protective routes and redirecting the users to desired pages.  • Created Template Driven Forms and Reactive Forms in the application with ngModel, ngModelGroup, ngform, formArray, formbuilder and adding Validation to the forms.  • Implemented the HTTP Services to connect to the backend and API's with CRUD Operations.  • Designed and maintained databases and tested and implemented applications built using Java.  • Optimizing the application for deployment, build deployable packages and working with different environments.  • Used ReactJs in development of the web application to bind the data/model that is being retrieved from a database through services provided in a controller to the view using scope.  • Designed, implemented and maintained our Microservices architecture using cutting edge technologies.  • Worked on scalable environment in Agile methodologies and prepared Test on multiple platforms like Mac and Windows.    Environment: Java 1.6, J2EE, Servlets, Spring MVC, Spring Annotations, Spring AOP, Microsoft SQL Server 2008, Tomcat 6, SOAP, Maven, Log4J, JDBC, AWS, Spring JDBC, Junit, Mockito, Microservices, Hibernate, Windows, JavaScript, React JS, Node.js, AJAX, REST, PL/SQL, CSS, Linux. Java Developer QUALCOMM/Philips August 2012 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the lifecycle of the software design process including, requirement Definition, prototyping, design, interfaceimplementations, unit testing and maintenance.  • Used various Core Java concepts such as ExceptionHandling, Collection APIs toimplement various features and enhancements.  • Designed and implemented web applications using Spring with relational databases such as MySQL.  • Written SQL statements for manipulating database, using JDBC.  • Created Action Classes, Domain Objects Request processor for the application using Model View Controller (MVC) approach.  • Implemented Spring MVC architecture and Spring Bean Factory using IOC. ConfiguredBean properties using dependency injection.  • Created Application Server, nodes at a cell level, created clusters, defined Data Sources for Database connectivity, Created Bus members, and defined Activation Specs to provide configurations for messaging queue in Web Sphere.  • Managed builds and made necessary changes to Ant build scripts for Java/ Web sphere based applications.  • Created and maintain build automation shell, manage building fixes, merges, and release cuts as needed, written scripts for environment changes in Bash, Perl, and Python for WebSphere mapping modules to the enterprise application.  • Implemented the caching mechanism in Hibernate to load data from Oracle, My SQLdatabase.  • Designed and developed queries using Hibernate Query Language and data validation viathe HibernateValidator framework.  • Used Data Access Objects (DAO) to abstract and encapsulate all access to the data source.  • Developed application components using Spring Framework.  • Tested the functional requirements using Junit test cases.  • Implemented Restful web services using Spring MVC framework.  • Worked extensively with Java collection API's such as Lists, Sets, And Maps and Java utility packages to make the application more interactive with the collection frameworks and annotation.  • Implemented SQL queries like Select, Insert, Delete, and Update statements.  • Involved in frontend frameworks that consisted of HTML.  • Performed client-side validations using JavaScript.    Environment: Java 1.7, Maven, Spring MVC, Spring JDBC, WebSphere, Restful web services, GIT, Jenkins, Agile, Scrum, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Hibernate, JPA, MySQL, Tomcat Server. Education Master's in Information Systems Engineering Harrisburg University Bachelor's in Computer Science Engineering JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills Git (6 years), ECLIPSE (2 years), Subversion (2 years), SVN (2 years), .NET (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Methodologies Agile and Waterfall  Version Controls SVN, GIT, Putty  Operating system Windows 10/8/7  IDE & Tools Visual Studio Code, Eclipse, Intellij, Adobe Photoshop, Chrome Developer Tools, Microsoft Suite.