Java Web Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer Temple City, CA Experienced NeuSoft which is biggest IT Corporation in North-East of China and over 4 years of experience in  Coding, and long time in related positions. Good reputation for resolving problems, and driving overall  operational improvements. Talented Computer Programmer able to deliver clean code on tight deadlines.  Comfortable with Agile frameworks and working either alone or as part of a team. Work Experience Java Web Developer Neusoft - Shenyang, CN January 2019 to June 2019 Java Web Developer  Neusoft, Shenyang, LiaoNing , PRC    Developed Online-Shopping programs using programming languages JavaEE and  framework such as SpringBoot and MyBatis? and other technologies such as Ajax, junit .  Developed code fixes and enhancements for inclusion in future code releases and  patches.  Maintained existing applications and designed and delivered new applications..  Collaborated with product management to design, build and test systems. E-Business Assistant/ Technical Support W&Sunny Enterprise Inc - Alhambra, CA September 2014 to December 2018 W&Sunny Enterprise Inc., Alhambra, CA  Address:507 S Stoneman Ave  Alhambra, CA 91801    Assessed system hardware and software and suggested modifications to reduce lag time  and improve overall speed.  Removed malware, ransomware and other threats from computer systems.  Led support team(3 person) as level-three supervisor providing assistance to average of  1000 users globally in 24/7 support environment.  Monitor and Maintain the daily performance and security of computer systems  Troubleshoot system failures or bugs and provide solutions to restore functionality Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science California State Polytechnic University - Pomona, CA September 2016 to January 2019 Associate of Science in Computer Science East Los Angeles College - Monterey, CA September 2013 to June 2016 Skills Ajax (1 year), CSS (2 years), MySQL (2 years), HTML (2 years), Java DataBase Connectivity (2 years), Javascript (1 year), JDBC (2 years), junit (4 years), Maven (2 years), Spring (2 years), MyBatics (2 years), SpringMVC (2 years), JQuery (1 year), Ajax (2 years), JSP (2 years), Java J2Ee (3 years), Java (4 years) Publications Project Name: WebServer https://github.com/Jeffreylsq/WebServer-Demo.git 2018-05 • Technology: Object Oriented Programming Theroy?HTTP Protocol?ExecutorService? JAVA  • Reflection?dom4j?Exception Handler(build new Exception)  • Project Content: Make a little-G Servlet which imitate Tomcat . Very similar to Tomcat Server but simplify it.  • Project Module: Core Module, Http Module, Servlet Module  • Description: more information please see in GitHub Project Name: SmartMVC https://github.com/Jeffreylsq/SmartMVC-Demo.git 2017-10 • Technology: Object Oriented Programming Theroy?Forward and Redirect,HTTP  • Protocol?ExecutorService? JAVA Reflection?dom4j?Exception Handler(build new Exception)  • Project Content: A simple Framework similar to SpringMVC  • Project Module: DispatcherServlet, HandlerMapping , Handler , RequestMapping  • Description: Edit web page based on AdminLTE 2, Compare the different between using annotation and  • create new servlet. For more detail please see demo picture in the GitHub Student E-Business Store https://github.com/Jeffreylsq/E-business-Store.git 2019-04 Technologies: SpringBoot(MyBatics) Ajax and Junit test  This is traditional E-business project which includes Mapper, Controller  Service, Html.   And we also do connection (MyBatics) interact with MySql  In user login and register part we add MD5 data encryption technology  Project Includes that client register, login, order item , save item to shopping cart, Shipping default Front-end web page