Sr. Full Stack Java Developer Sr. Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Full Stack Java Developer - Berkley Risk New York, NY, NY • Over 7 years of IT experience in analysis, design, development, documentation, implementing and testing of web using Java and J2EE, Springs Framework, Struts Framework, Hibernate, Web Services (SOAP, Restful), JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Angular JS, AJAX and XML.  • Hands on experience in JAVA, JEE, JSP, Servlets, REST Web Services, Hibernate, Spring, Struts, JavaScript and AJAX technologies in design, coding, performance tuning, testing, maintenance and support of software applications.  • Experienced in designing the Front-end pages using scripting languages like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, TypeScript, JQuery, JSF, AJAX, Angular JS/2.0/4.0, ReactJS, & NodeJS, BOOTSTRAP. Developed single page applications using Angular 2, web pack and Angular CLI, NPM.  • Serialization, IO, Collections framework, Java Beans, Executor Services, Thread pools.  • Experience in working with open source frameworks like Spring, Struts and ORM frameworks like Hibernate and Spring JPA.  • Expertise in developing and implementing Web applications using Java/J2EE Technologies including JSP Custom Tags Libraries, XML, Networking, Threads, IO, Servlets, JNDI, JDBC, Struts, JMS, EJB 3.0/2.x, Java Beans, JAXB, JMS, RMI, Spring, Hibernate, JSF and SOAP/REST web services.  • Extensive experience of J2EE Design Patterns like MVC, Singleton, Session Facade, Factory, Producer Consumer, DAO, DTO, Business Delegate, Factory, Abstract Factory, Service Locator.  • Experience working with applications developed using Object Relational Mapping frameworks like Hibernate and MVC frameworks like Struts, JSF etc., and IOC frameworks like Spring and its subsidiary modules such as Spring MVC, Spring, Spring Boot and Spring AOP  • Worked on integrating internal security model into new projects with Spring Batch, Spring Microservices and Spring Boot.  • In depth knowledge on core java concepts such as OOPS, Collections, Threading, generics, Exception handling, Multi-Threading, Execution services, concurrent utilities, File IO, Garbage Collection and Serialization.  • Possess good experience in designing and developing SOA based interface and web services (SOAP, WSDL, UDDI) using Apache Axis2 and RESTful web services in java with JAX-RS reference implementation Jersey.  • Good knowledge on ECS, VPC, AutoScaling, Security Groups, AWS CLI, Cloud watch.  • Good experience in using Amazon Web Services (AWS) and AWS SNS/SQS for delivering messages.  • Extensively worked on XML related technologies like XSL, XQuery, XSLT, SAX, DOM, XPath, WSDL, DTD, XSD, Apache Axis, JAXP (SAX, DOM), JAXB, XML Beans parsers for parsing XML in to Java object.  • Good working knowledge on message driven programming using JMS.  • Experience in working with application servers like IBM Web Sphere, Web Logic, JBOSS, and Apache Tomcat.  • Hands on experience in configuring and using Maven and Ant build tools.  • Expert in using version control tools such as such as SVN, CVS and Serena Dimesions.  • Experienced in writing and implementing unit test cases using Junit, Easy mock and Mockito.  • Strong experience on various development environments (IDE Tools) like Eclipse, IRAD, and My Eclipse.  • Good experience in unit testing, Integration testing and User Acceptance testing using JUnit. Work Experience Sr. Full Stack Java Developer Berkley Risk - Minneapolis, MN October 2017 to Present Description: Berkley risk is a national provider for insurance management and strategic planning services that designs, implements and manages a wide variety of alternative market property and casualty programs to help the customer control their total cost of risk.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Client Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of the application using AGILE methodology (SCRUM).  • Designed various modules using technologies like CSS Media Queries, HTML5 , AJAX, JSON, and JavaScript.  • Worked on JavaScript and HTML5 Browser Cache mechanism for storing and retrieving data for the website.  • Designed, developed a custom, singlepage, responsive web application on front end using AngularJS.  • Used AngularJS to connect the web application to back-end APIs, used RESTFUL methods to interact with several API's, and wrote custom directives for a responsive, CSS-animated user interface.  • Implemented routing logic and navigation from screen to screen and implemented login functionality on the client side in AngularJS.  • Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in NodeJs.  • Used Java 1.8 Lambda expressions and Stream API to support functional-style operations on streams of elements.  • The Stream API is integrated into the Collections API, to perform bulk operations on collections, like sequential  • Used Multi-Threading and collection framework including List, Map etc.  • Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing Spring Inversion of Control (IOC), AOP, MVC and Hibernate.  • Developed the persistence layer using Hibernate Framework, created the POJO objects and mapped using Hibernate annotations and Transaction Management.  • Creating REST API implementation using Spring Boot framework and writing test cases for those API's.  • Hands on experience working with Java IDE's like Intellij.  • Extensively used Junit and JMockit for writing unit test cases.  • Hands on experience in creating Docker containers and images and deployed the code using docker and AWS Services.  • Involved in CICD process using GIT, Nexus, Jenkins job creation, Maven build, Create Docker image and deployment in AWS environment.  • Designed and developed API specification with testing case.  • Used Log4j to capture the logs that include various levels of information like error, info, debug into the log files.  • Tracking the bugs and improvements through JIRA.  • Handling the project with GIT version control.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery AJAX, Bootstrap, AngularJS, EXTJS, NodeJS, Agile(SCRUM), SpringBoot, Hibernate, DynamoDB, Docker, Terraform, Nginx, GIT, JUnit, Maven, Restful, JAX-RS, Log4J, AWS, Swagger, MicroServices, JIRA, Jenkins. FullStack Java Developer Blackboard Inc - Washington, DC January 2017 to October 2017 Description: Blackboard Inc. is an educational technology company, provides education, mobile, communication, and commerce software and related services to clients including education providers, corporations and government organizations.  Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile methodology and involved in daily SCRUM meetings, sprint planning, showcases and retrospective and used JIRA as a tracking tool for the sprints.  • Designed the front-end screens using AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap and Spring Boot.  • Developed Angular controllers, services, filters and developed HTML templates with various Angular directives such as ng-app, ng-controller, ng-repeat, ng-if,ng-show, ng-hide,ng-change, ng-blur etc  • Used various Angular UI Bootstrap components such as calendars, masks, uploaders, sliders, alerts, modal dialogs etc.for developing the UI.  • Developed Angular services making use of resource service to perform REST API calls to the backend.  • Developed unit test cases using Jasmine and Karma and performed end to end tesing using Protractor and Selenium  • Developed REST controllers using Spring Data REST to serve the UI with required JSON data.  • Developed REST exception handling controller advices to respond to bad requests and server side exceptions.  • Used complete annotation driven approach to develop the application using Spring Boot and was also involved in setting up the Spring bean profiling.  • Consumed SOAP/ JAX-WS based web services using Spring framework and used SOAP UI for testing these services.  • Used REST Client and POSTMAN to test the rest based services and used Junit and Mockito to test the middleware services.  • Worked with Middleware using Message driven by POJO (MDP) after creating QCF, Queue on WebSphere server, and using JMS template for asynchronous functionality for multiple users.  • Used Hibernate in the persistence layer and implemented DAO's to access data from database.  • Used Node.js to run Grunt tasks and build properly the project (compile, minify, concat etc.) and Implement modules into Node JS to integrate with designs and requirements. Used GruntJS, BowerJS, Express from NodeJS.  • Involved in enhancing existing MEAN (MongoDB, Express, Angular and Node) stack applications and provided the required support.  • Build REST web service by building Node.js Server in the back-end to handle requests sent from the front end jQuery Ajax calls.  • Made the integration of data in several applications in favor JSON documents with dynamic schemas using MongoDB (NOSQL) database.  • Created various MongoDB collections and wrote services to store and retrieve user data from for the application on devices and used Mongoose API in order to access the MongoDB from NodeJS.  • Used GIT as version control system, to keep track of all the work & all changes, allowing several developers to collaborate and used Maven as build and configuration tool and Jenkins for continuous integration tool.  • Involved in configuration and usage of Apache Log4J for logging and debugging purposes. Used RAD as IDE tool to develop the application.  • Prepared Documentation for Unit Test Plan and Unit Test Results for the QA purpose.  • Took part in setting up the application with Jenkins and AWS and is involved in builds and deployments to Tomcat server.  Environment: Java 7, STS, Tomcat 7, Gulp, Spring Tool Suite, Spring, Spring Boot, Hibernate, MongoDB, RESTful Web Service, Oracle, HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, AngularJS, Node Js, Express, JavaScript, GIT, JMS, Jenkins, Agile, JIRA tool, Selenium, Log4j, Maven, AWS. FullStack Java Developer TD Auto Finance - Farmington Hills, MI March 2015 to December 2016 TD Auto Finance is a competitive U.S. auto financing company focused on providing customers with a personal, worry-free and easy automotive finance experience. TD Auto Finance is part of TD Bank Group, ranked as one of the safest banks in North America by Global Finance Magazine and one of the few Aaa-rated banks listed on the New York Stock Exchange. With offices around the world, TD Bank Group offers a full range of financial products and services.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and Developed User Interactive (UI) Web pages using HTML5, React-JS, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX and NodeJS.  • Created reusable components used across various modules using React-JS, React-DOM, Bootstrap and JSX.  • Involved in creating REST services using Node-JS, Express-JS, Mongoose and Body-Parser NPM modules.  Developed the ReactWeb UI components using Atom IDE and made backend REST calls using whatwefetch.  • Used Bootstrap CSS for dialogs, tabs, date picker, model pop up's and advanced components to implement UI model.  • Create, edit and maintain sites implementing responsive design & themes using front-end development frameworks including Bootstrap.  • Developed routing components in the application using thereact-router module for various components and views.  • Developed the DAO layer for the existing applications using Spring, Hibernate and developed various business logic and reports using HQL and Hibernate Criteria.  • Interacting with the offshore team to assist them in the development and help them understand the requirements and performed Code Reviews.  • Experience in upgrading and migrating various versions of Mongo database on different platforms. Designed and developed custom Mongo applications specific to clients' needs.  • Developed Spring JMS message listeners to consume JMS messages from queues and used Spring transaction management to manage the transactions in the application.  • Used Spring Framework at Business Tier and uses Spring container for initializing services and used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection such as Bean, Component, Repository, Autowired etc  • Used Spring Framework with Hibernate to map to Oracle database and mapping using Hibernate Annotations.  • Involved in setting up the application to run on AWS environment on multiple EC2 instances with ELB's using Jenkins.  • Validating the Application by Deploying and testing on JBoss Server.  • Created various unit test cases and integration tests for the DAO, Service, and Controller components using JUnit, DbUnit, and Spring Test support.  • Updated legacy Ant build infrastructure to thenewGradle-based build system, enabling more robust test, build and release procedures.  • Integration testing, bugs fixing, handling change requests and code reviews.  • Developed REST controllers using Spring Data REST to serve the UI with required JSON data.  • Used extensively Eclipse in thedevelopment and debugging the application.  • Followed Agile methodology and involved in daily SCRUM meetings.  Environment: Java 1.6, Junit 4, JBoss 7, Oracle 10g, HTML,JSP, JavaScript, React-JS, Node-JS,Mongo-db, Spring, Hibernate, Eclipse, Atom, Restful Web services, Gradle, Junit, log4j, JavaScript, Subversion, Jenkins, AWS. Java/J2EE Developer Atlantic Telecom - East Hanover, NJ November 2012 to February 2015 Project Description: Atlantic Telecom deals with selling calling cards globally. The application allows users to use cards to make calls all over the world. It supports VOIP calls over the internet. Users can register and make one time payments or use the option of a monthly recharge. The application supports a set of schemes to attract different age groups with price flexibilities to capture a better market. It supports several features for service subscription and notification.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in meeting with business to gather requirements.  • Involved in analyzing business requirements and compose them into a technical use cases.  • Involved in creating class and sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Responsible for IVR (Interactive Voice Response) and reporting software development.  • Designed and developed the application based on MVC framework.  • Created HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSTL and JSP pages for Presentation Layer.  • Involved in implementing Spring DAO layer to access the database.  • Deployed the Enterprise Java Beans in Web Sphere App Server.  • Involved in transforming XML to HTML using XSLT.  • Used XPATH to navigate through Attributes and Elements in an XML Document.  • Developed DAO's to invoke DAP's (Data Access Programs) to access data from .CSV files and to query Oracle database.  • Wrote various Struts framework Action classes for interfacing with the business logic, form beans for presenting the data to JSPs.  • Involved in Java and PL/SQL code reviews.  • Developed Database Objects like PL/SQL packages, Stored Procedures and Materialized Views.  • Wrote batch jobs for loading data from .CSV files into database.  • Designed and implemented RESTful APIs based on SpringMVC and Jersey.  • Developed online adhoc reports using Jasper framework.  • Wrote Shell Scripts for executing the batch jobs.  • Interacted with the Users and Documented the Application.  • Involved in designing test plans, test cases and overall Unit, Integration and Security testing of system.  • Used RAD as IDE for development and unit testing.  • Used PVCS as repository to control versioning of projects.  • Prepared documentation and participated in preparing user's manual for the application.  Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, JSTL, GWT, (GWT-EXT), JavaScript, , Skills Used IVR: Interactive Intelligence PL/SQL, Struts, Spring, Oracle 10g, PL/SQL, XML, XSLT, CSS, Log4j, UML, Jasper (Reports), Rational Rose, WebSphere Application Server, RAD, PVCS, Clear Quest, Windows XP. Java/J2EE Developer Peers Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2011 to October 2012 Responsibilities:  • Implemented automated Test-Suite for Layer 7 integrated Web Services.  • Implemented SOA architecture using SOAP web services by using Apache CXF and JAX-WS.  • Worked closely with the customers and involved in reviewing and understanding the Business requirements.  • Worked on Layer7 Security suite by CA Technologies Integration to FAL  • Actively involved in requirement understanding discussion, technical architecture discussion, knowledge sharing, design discussion with Customers and Offshore team members.  • Developed EJB 3.0 components and SOAP web services for the UI integration.  • Integrated Spring Security, SFDC IDP (SAML 2.0, and OAuth) for single sign on for a different audience.  • Developed SOA composite Applications using BPEL, Business Rules, Human Task and Mediator.  • Customized the SOA Integrated Repository to expose standard functionality in oracle EBS  • Implement monitoring tools and techniques for Fusion Middleware components, particularly SOA and OSB services.  • Developed business layer using spring, Hibernate and DAOs.  • Developed the service classes for better data exchange between the MVC layers.  • Worked on designing screens using Swing and Ajax.  • Created User Interface in DOJO/AJAX and Struts2 tags for different customized screens for each type of Provider.  • Using Maven build automation tool, Jenkins to build the application code base  • Coordinating the JSON data with the UI/UX as a responsive iOS app.  • Designed and developed a web site application using J2EE, XML, EJB, Servlets, JSP under the Apache Struts Framework.  • Developed and implemented UI controls and APIs with ExtJS.  • Domain Data Model Design and implementation of Cassandra spanning multiple datacenters on Amazon Web Services  • Developed common XML schema's (XSD) as client contracts used to publish Top Down approach based Web Services  Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring 3.0, Struts, Hibernate, Web services (Rest), ESB, JSP, HTML5, CCS3, JavaScript, Dojo, Ajax, JSF, JMS, PLSQL, SQL Server, Shell Scripting, MVC, JUnit Education Bachelor's Skills ECLIPSE, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING Additional Information Technical skills    Operating system Windows 98,2000,XP, windows7/8/10, Mac, Linux  Languages Java (JDK 1.4, 1.5, 1.6 and 8)/ J2EE, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, SQL and XML  Frameworks Struts 2.x/1.x, Spring 3.x/ 2.x, Hibernate 3.x, JSF 1.2/2.0,iBatis,Flex UI Frameworks JQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap  Web/ApplicationServer Apache Web Server, WebSphere, WebLogic , Tomcat and JBoss  IDE Net Beans, Eclipse, RAD  Tools  Splunk, HPSM, Track, Selenium, pgAdmin, Adobe Live Cycle Designer ES2, WPS, AEM (Adobe Experience Manager), Adobe reader, CMSA, Adobe PVCS.    Version Control GIT, SVN, CVS, and PVCS  Build/Deploy Apache ANT, Maven and Jenkins, Chef, Puppet  Methodologies Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Waterfall and Agile, Jira  Database NoSQL, PgSQL 9.2, DB2 9/10  Web Services JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, REST,SOAP UI XML Tools JAXB, Apache Axis