Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer San Diego, CA • Results-driven software professional with a demonstrated ability to successfully design and implement critical large-scale, N-tier, distributed, real-time enterprise applications. Expertise in object oriented analysis and design with specialization in Java, J2EE technologies. Outstanding track record of driving the project to success through various stages of Software Development Life Cycle.  • Having 6 years of IT Experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Deployment and Implementation of Multi-Tier distributed applications using Java, J2EE Technologies.  • Excellent Java development skills using J2EE, J2SE, Servlets, JSP, Java Script, JSON, HTML, JMS, JDBC and Java beans.  • Strong front-end UI development skills using scripting languages like JSP, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery and CSS.  • Experience on XML, XSL, XSLT and parsing methodologies like DOM and SAX.  • Extensive experience in design, development and implementation of Model-View-Controller frame works using Struts and Spring MVC.  • Extensive experience in development and implementation of ORM framework Hibernate/ Hibernate with Spring Data Access.  • Strong database skills in Oracle 8i/9i/10g, Sybase, DB2, and MySQL.  • Expertise in programming with SQL, PL/SQL and Stored Procedures.  • Expertise in designing applications using various J2EE design patterns like Singleton, Value Object, Data Access Object, Factory, Session Façade, Business Delegate and Service Locator etc.  • Experience with various Software Development Methodologies like SDLC, Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), Agile Software Development, Scrum Methodology.  • Expertise in using and configuring various web & application servers like Web Logic, Tomcat, IBM Web Sphere and JBoss.  • Proficiency in programming with different Java IDE's like Eclipse, JBuilder, Web logic Workshop and Toad.  • Used log4J for application logging and notification tracing mechanisms.  • Expertise in development of test cases using Junit.  • Experience with SCM tools like VSS, SVN, and CVS.  • Experience in finding Memory, DB Connection leaks and analyzing heap & Thread dumps.  • Ability to learn quickly in work environment, fluent in communication, productive interpersonal skills with the ability to understand and cooperate with group requirements efficiently Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer Dassault Systemes - San Diego, CA December 2016 to June 2019 Description: The project involves the design and Development of the Learning Portal solution that brings together learning content producers/publishers, training providers, testing service providers and certification authorities on one common platform to create, manage and distribute learning content and solutions to learners across the globe. Custom development initiatives, the portal seeks to establish itself as the leader in worldwide Learning Content Management and Distribution Space.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Responsible for understanding the High Level and Low level Design documents for the new functionalities being implemented including Use case Diagram.  • Developed class libraries in core java for the system.  • Design and Coding of User Interfaces using JSP and Servlet.  • Responsible for data validation on the Client side by using JavaScript.  • Implemented the application using Struts Framework which is based on Model View Controller (MVC) design pattern.  • Preparing Database updating scripts.  • Developed custom tags for reuse of the functionality.  • Developed and modified UI pages with HTML 5 with Java Script as scripting language.  • Developed error reports based on business rules.  • Fixed many development issues using Core Java, multithreading and JSP.  • Performed Unit testing and stored the logs.  • Prepared the Proof of Concept and the Presentations to demonstrate the solution to the business users.  • Implemented various functions in Unix Shell Scripts as per the internal standards.  • Resolved the Issues related to WebSphere server Setup.  • Involved in Unit integration, bug fixing, acceptance testing with test cases and Code reviews.  • Deployed the application on web Sphere application server.  Environment: JDK, JSP, EJB, Spring, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, DOJO, XML, Tomcat, Eclipse 3.x, JUnit, Oracle, PL/SQL, CVS and Web Content. JAVA Developer Petco Inc - San Diego, CA December 2015 to December 2016 Description: Enterprise Customer Hub is an upgrade of existing project currently known as Master Data Management. Enterprise customer Hub keeps a single, complete, and accurate record of all the customers of Petco. The application allows the inserts, updates, lookup, and deletes of Customer records. Name, Address, Contact number (phone / email /fax) of Customers (Person / Organization) are added, updated, looked up, and deleted via this application. All the request and response data is embedded in the XMLs.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the module which can transform raw input data into XML files conforming to the schema definition acceptable by ECH application.  • Involved in requirement gathering, business flow analysis, preparing Use Case, SRS documents, presentations and manage the team in bug fixing.  • Adopted Spring IOC to increase application flexibility and replace the need for hard-coded class based application functions.  • Integrated Spring framework with Hibernate to interact with the database tables.  • Used Spring framework's declarative transaction management to handle transactions with the Hibernate layer.  • Involved in refactoring the exception handling mechanism for the entire application.  • Written shell scripts which could be invoked as Tidal jobs to perform daily and weekly data load operations with the ECH application.  • Developed the java modules which can en queue and de queue messages into / from the configured queues.  Environment: Struts 2, spring, JSP, Servlets, XML, SMTP, Oracle 10g, UNIX, XSLT, JQuery, JUNIT, Oracle Application Server, Eclipse. JAVA Developer Tata Consultancy Services - IN June 2012 to February 2015 Description: The project involves the design and Development of an e-commerce website with modules like inventory control, ware house management, order management, payment gateway and reverse logistics. The website allows placing an order, modifying the details and processing it through different statuses. It is monitored through IBM Sterling order management tool which can be customized using Java.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Created application interfaces and modified existing interfaces using JAVA.  • Created XML inputs compatible to the application interfaces and passed them to the third party systems  • Configured various modules of IBM Sterling tool like Order Management, Warehouse management, Reverse logistics and Inventory control  • Involved in designing and developing the front end of the application using JSP, Java script, HTML and CSS.  • Extracted test data from database through stored procedures.  • Involved in bug fixing and troubleshooting of the defects raised.  • Maintained the latest code versions in SVN.  • Deployed the code in JBoss Server and monitored the servers and queues.  Environment: IBM Sterling Order management tool 9.3, JBoss Server, DOM parser, JSP, Servlets, XML, Oracle 10g, UNIX, Eclipse. Education Bachelor of Technology in Communication Engineering Electronics & Communication Engineering Gitam University - Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh June 2008 to May 2012 Skills JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, JMS, JSP, SERVLETS, STRUTS, C++, JAVASCRIPT, JSON, XML, DATABASE, SQL SERVER, MYSQL, SQL, HTML5, AJAX, CSS, FRAMEWORKS, MAC, Angular Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/sunita-boda-b85541aa/ Additional Information Technical Skills  Programming Languages: Java, C, C++  Web: HTML5, CSS, XML, SQL, JavaScript, JSP, Servlets, AJAX, JSON  Frameworks: Struts, Spring, Hibernate, React  Messaging Technologies: JMS  Database: MySQL, SQL Server  Operating Systems: Windows, Mac OS