Java FullStack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> FullStack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java FullStack Developer - CNSI • Over 7 years of experience as Full Stack Java developer involving analysis, design, implementation, integration, administration, and testing of various enterprise applications.  • Experience of development using software development methodologies as Agile, Waterfall development and Test-Driven Development (TDD) environments.  • Expertise in designing Use Case, Sequence and Activity diagrams with UML, using tools like Rational Rose and RUP.  • In depth knowledge on core Java concepts such as OOPS, Collections, Threading, Generics, Exception handling, Thread pools, Execution services, File IO and Serialization  • Experience in developing applications using Core Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Struts, Spring 3.2, Spring 4.0, Hibernate, Web Services (SOAP, REST), JAX-RS, JAX-WS, JMS, JDBC, XML, JavaScript, Angular, XSLT, JSON, Ajax and jQuery.  • Expertise in designing and developing Web-centric applications using HTML5, CSS3, Java Applets, JavaScript, XML, XSD, JSON, Ajax, jQuery, Bootstrap, Angular.js, Angular 2, Node.js, ReactJS, Tag Libraries, Google Web Toolkit (GWT) and Custom Tags.  • Experience in deployment of the J2EE applications on Tomcat, IBM Web Sphere, BEA Web logic and JBOSS.  • Ability to assimilate new technologies very quickly and apply that knowledge to the fast growing and ever-changing markets of Information Technology.  • Developed applications using latest technologies like EJB3.0, Spring2.x/3.x/4.x, Hibernate3.x/4.x, and REST based Web services, XML API and tools.  • Strong hands experience developing applications using Spring Framework, Spring Core, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring ORM, Spring DAO, Spring Netflix, Spring Zuul, Inversion of control and Dependency Injection.  • Expertise in MVC architecture Web Framework Struts 2.0, Spring 4.0 (Dependency Injection, Data Access Objects, MVC Framework and Spring Web Flow) and know how to use Spring Framework in business layer for Dependency Injection, AOP, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, transaction management and used Hibernate as a persistence layer that use the POJOs to represent the persistence database.  • Knowledge of J2EE design patterns like MVC, Front Controller, Factory, Abstract Factory, Command Pattern, Singleton, Session Facade, Transfer Object, Business Delegate and Data Access Object etc.  • Experience in Microservices, Pivotal Cloud Foundry and Engagement using Spring Boot.  • Experience in implementing Service oriented architecture and Web Services using SOAP, RESTFUL.  • Experience in database modeling, design and development of PL/SQL stored procedures, packages in relational databases: Oracle 9i / 10g / 11g, SQL Server 2005/2008, DB2, and MySQL.  • Strong experience with development and migrations from SQL relational databases to NoSQL databases like MongoDB, Apache Cassandra and CouchDB.  • Good exposure with using IDE tools NetBeans, Eclipse, IntelliJ, Spring Tool Suite (STS) configuring and deploying the applications on Apache Tomcat, IBM WebSphere, Oracle WebLogic and Red Hat JBoss Servers.  • Developed CI/CD system with Jenkins on Kubernetes container environment utilizing Kubernetes.  • Experience with build tools like Ant, Maven, Gradle and Logging tools like Log4J, SLF4J.  • Experience in Unit /Integration test cases using Easy Mock, Selenium tools, and SoapUI.  • Focused on Amazon Web Services (AWS) services like EC2, Elastic Beanstalk, Cloud Watch, Cloud Front, Cloud Formation, IAM, S3, RDS, Elastic Cache, SNS, SQS, AMI. Work Experience Java FullStack Developer CNSI - Rockville, MD January 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in Client Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of the application using AGILE methodology (SCRUM).  • Designed various modules using technologies like CSS Media Queries, HTML5 , AJAX, JSON, and JavaScript.  • Worked on JavaScript and HTML5 Browser Cache mechanism for storing and retrieving data for the website.  • Designed, developed a custom, single page, responsive web application on front end using AngularJS.  • Used AngularJS to connect the web application to back-end APIs, used RESTFUL methods to interact with several API's, and wrote custom directives for a responsive, CSS-animated user interface.  • Used SoapUI and Postman tool to test web services.  • Used Spring Security to secure application services.  • Implemented routing logic and navigation from screen to screen and implemented login functionality on the client side in AngularJS.  • Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in NodeJs.  • Used Java 1.8 Lambda expressions and Stream API to support functional-style operations on streams of elements.  • The Stream API is integrated into the Collections API, to perform bulk operations on collections, like sequential  • Used Multi-Threading and collection framework including List, Map etc.  • Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing Spring Inversion of Control (IOC), AOP, MVC and Hibernate.  • Designed Front-end Screens using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angularjs, jQuery, JSTL, JSP, AJAX, NodeJS and Bootstrap.  • Worked on AngularJS controllers, views, and services for new website features.  • Used Spring 4.0 Framework for Dependency injection, Spring Web Services framework.  • Used Hibernate 3.0 in data access layer to access, update and insert information in the database.  • Used Java API for XML Web Services (JAX-WS) to convert Java Objects to XML conversions  • Developed the persistence layer using Hibernate Framework, created the POJO objects and mapped using Hibernate annotations and Transaction Management.  • Creating REST API implementation using Spring Boot framework and writing test cases for those API's.  • Hands on experience working with Java IDE's like Intellij.  • Extensively used Junit and JMockit for writing unit test cases.  • Hands on experience in creating Docker containers and images and deployed the code using docker and AWS Services.  • Involved in CICD process using GIT, Nexus, Jenkins job creation, Maven build, Create Docker image and deployment in AWS environment.  • Designed and developed API specification with testing case.  • Used Log4j to capture the logs that include various levels of information like error, info, debug into the log files.  • Tracking the bugs and improvements through JIRA.  • Handling the project with GIT version control.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery AJAX, Bootstrap, AngularJS, EXTJS, NodeJs, Agile(SCRUM), SpringBoot, Hibernate, DynamoDB, Docker, Terraform, Nginx, GIT, JUnit, Maven, Restful, JAX-RS, Log4J, AWS, Swagger, MicroServices, JIRA, Jenkins. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Infinity Insurance - Birmingham, AL November 2017 to December 2018 Description: This is an online insurance quoting and policy application, which enables customers to quote an insurance coverage policy through web. This application delivers online services including customer information, policy premium, and monthly payments, new product offerings and customer correspondence with the company. Auto insurance laws may vary from one state to another.  Responsibilities:  • Provided technical guidance to business analysts, gather the requirements and convert them into technical specifications/artifacts.  • Designed and developed Customer registration and login screens using HTML, Servlets and JavaScript.  • Configured spring to manage Actions as beans and set their dependencies in a context file and integrated middle tier with Hibernate.  • Developed screens based on JQUERY to dynamically generate HTML and display the data to the client side.  • Worked on Client Side code that was written in Backbone JS and Server Side Code was developed using MVC design.  • Configured and worked with ANT, Maven for automation, code building and deployment.  • Used SVN as a version control system, an important component of Source Configuration Management (SCM).  • Extensively used JSP tag libraries.  • Designed and Developed UI using Angular.JS, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Utilized Angular.JS framework to bind HTML template (views) to JavaScript object (models).  • Created Custom Directives in Angular.JS, making use of Modules and Filters objects according to the application requirement.  • Developed views using Bootstrap components, Angular-UI and involved in configuring routing for various modules using angular UI router.  • Used Spring Security for Authentication and authorization.  • Created proof-of-concept using responsive web design, Node.js, React JS.  • Designed and developed Application based on Spring MVC Framework using MVC design pattern.  • Used Spring Core for dependency injection/Inversion of control (IOC).  • Used Hibernate Framework for persistence onto Oracle database.  • Wrote JavaScript validations to validate the fields of the user registration screen and login screen.  • Designed a network of web pages, where the user progresses through an application by selecting links, resulting in the next page being transferred to the user and rendered for their use using REST.  • Developed high-performance web applications using spring and XML Http Request.  • Configured JDBC in the application server.  • Involved in coding of Java, JDBC and Servlets interact with client and Database.  • Involved in debugging the product using Eclipse and JIRA Bug Tracking.  • Converted and automated builds using Maven and Make. Scheduled automated nightly builds using Jenkins.  • Test automation for web application using Cucumber.  • Configured and used WebLogic content management to display content in JSP view components.  • Developed UI with AJAX, DHTML and JavaScript for more interactive web pages.  • Implemented Spring MVC architecture and increased modularity by allowing the separation of cross-cutting concerns using Spring AOP.  • Deployed flow of Execution in the Servlet Environment using spring MVC and defined Navigation Rules.    Environment: Java, JEE, Servlets, JMS, Hibernate, Spring, Web services, React Js, REST, UML, HTML, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, XML, XSD, Log4j, Oracle 11g, PL/SQL, JUnit, JNDI, JIRA, Cucumber. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Citizens Bank - North Haven, CT January 2016 to October 2017 Description: This Banking application allows customers to access their Bank account through World Wide Web. Using their User ID and Password, their Checking, Saving, Loan, Mortgage accounts can be accessed. The application provides the Account Summary, Transfer funds, Loan Payment, Payments option to the user. The user has option to change the personal profile. Application deals with credit card issuers and cardholders to manage the life cycle of credit card accounts online. Applications are developed as modular solution that can be tailored to the unique needs of banks e-business strategy.  Responsibilities:  • Involved on test-driven development, continuous integration systems, and Agile software development.  • Involved in writing RESTful web services for supporting web application consuming those services on different applications.  • Involved in Development using Java (Back-end), Hibernate (Also SQL), JAX-RS (for REST) and Junit following Agile Methodologies. Used SVN and Maven for version control.  • Used Hibernate core interfaces, mapping associations to implement DAO layer.  • Integrated Spring with Hibernate and made as Spring bean using Hibernate Template.  • Used SpringIOC framework to integrate with Hibernate.  • Created RESTful Web service for updating customer data from sent from external systems.  • Involved in design, development and implementation of front end part of the web application using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, Angular JS and Bootstrap.  • Worked on latest features like creating various effects, shading, 2D 3D animation, Shapes, Handling multimedia files for the developed web pages using HTML 5.  • Responsive development is implemented using Bootstrap and CSS3 media queries.  • Worked on extending HTML attributes with directives and binding data to HTML with expressions.  • Compiled dynamic sheet language LESS on to CSS.  • Reusable HTML-like elements and behavior of presentation components and the attributes that define data bindings are implemented using AngularJS directives.  • Used RDBMS applications store data in a tabular form.  • Worked extensively on all client side UI validations and implementing business logic using jQuery.  • Datepicker, Tabs, Slider, Accordion and Dialog plugins in jQuery are used.  • Worked extensively on jQuery and AJAX for parsing data fetched from APIs.  • For rendering domain-specific layout XML to the web, JavaScript libraries are used.  • Consumed and created Restful web services.  • Worked on Twitter Bootstrap plugins to build Rich Internet Application (RIA)  • Faster responsive web pages were created by minimizing page load through adjustments, content analysis, other UI performance improvements and using best practices.  • UI screens were developed using MVC features of AngularJS and JavaScript.  • Defined new validations through AngularJS for the form fields.  • Data- Binding concepts with developed controllers, filters, directives integrated with back-end services were extensively implemented using AngularJS.  • Bootstrap is an HTML, CSS, JavaScript framework that you can use as basis for creating web sites or web applications.  • Strong understanding of supporting XML and JSON based REST web-services, integrating with the front-end.  • Used Http client, Jackson libraries to consume REST based services and to handle JSON based responses.  • Converted existing functionality to Web APIs using RESTful Web Services, Jersey/JAX-RS and Java.  • Used Mockito to test individual methods for unit testing.  • Used Ember CLI to Converts java properties files to a ES6 module which exports the object version.  • Strong experience in web deployment best practices like image optimization, web server tuning.  • Working knowledge in package manager tools such as Bower, and task runner tools such as GruntJS.  • Worked on tools like GIT and JIRA for version control and bug tracking.  Environment: Spring4.0, Hibernate, RESTful web services, Jersey, HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, GruntJS, Bower, Bootstrap, JSON, Ajax, dynamic HTML, Agile methodology, Adobe Photoshop , Drools, CS4, GIT, SQL, ATG9.0, TDD, Agile, Bootstrap, Development, Jira. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Electrolux - Charlotte, NC October 2014 to December 2015 Description: Developed web-based Product Registration Portal where the owners can register their purchased Electrolux product online for extended customer support and warranty.  Responsibilities:    • Involved in Design, Development and Support phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Used AGILE methodology and participated in SCRUM meetings.  • AWS EC2 instances were configured in developing and QA environments with NodeJS  • Designed and implemented the user interface using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and Angular JS.  • Developed Hibernate mapping files using different mapping strategies such as table per class hierarchy and also used Hibernate Persistence Strategy to interact with database.  • Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly.  • Developed a tool to retrieve and send data to third party service provider this feature was implemented using REST  • Created Buckets in AWS and stored files. Enabled Versioning and security for files stored  • Used RESTFUL client to interact with the services by providing the RESTFUL URL mapping  • Built MAVEN scripts for automated deployment and for the build operation of the entire application.  • Deployed the application in WebSphere Application Server 6.0.1 and Configured JMS in the WebSphere application server to send messages on the queue.  • Spring Controllers were used with Angular JS to route the control to desired Java services.  • Implemented scripting with Ajax and XML to dynamically refresh the page contents.  • Developed Controller for request, response paradigm by Spring Controllers using Spring-MVC. Used JSON as response type in REST services.  • Involved with bug fixing on functionality, performance and designing issues with JavaScript, JQuery, HTML5, CSS3 and Angular JS.  • Developed core Java programs for all business rules and workflows using spring framework.  • Designed and developed Restful service interface using Spring MVC to the underlying customer event API. Involved in building Restful Web services using JAX-RSAPI.  • Worked on Cloud implementation by installing, building and deploying applications using Cloud Foundry and using AWS.  • Created custom Plugins, templates, and functions for Angular JS application.  • Implemented Hibernate for data persistence and management.  • Analyzed and fixed issues related to REST Web services and Application responses.  • Used Maven as the build tool and Tortoise SVN as the Source version controller.  • Used Subversion (SVN) as the configuration management tool to manage the code repository.  • Performed unit testing using JUnit.  • Followed Agile Scrum methodology and used TDD for writing test cases.  • Involved in developing stored procedures and Triggers on Oracle11g  • Used NPM to manager server side packages.    Environment: Java 1.7, J2EE, Spring Framework 4.0, Hibernate, AJAX, Oracle 11g, Web Services, AWS, Agile, REST, XML, SOA, WebSphere, JavaScript, Angular JS, NodeJS, Bootstrap, JQuery, JBOSS, JUnit, Grunt, GITHub, SQL, JMS, HTML5, JSP, CVS, CSS, MVC, Maven and SVN. Java Developer MACTECH IT SOLUTIONS INDIA March 2012 to September 2014 • Used Rational Clear case as the configuration management tool and Eclipse as an IDE for application development with AWS  • Developed common rest services for Save, Edit, View, Delete and Reference Data Services using document DFC APIs and JSON objects.  • Responsible for generating a result tree using XSLT  • Developed web pages using HTML/CSS and JavaScript and Implemented validation using JavaScript.  • Used Log4j for logging, JUnit for Unit Testing, CVS for configuration management  • Responsible for configuring WAS to access Database by setting Data Source  • Used XML, XSLT, and XML Schema for parsing and transforming the XML documents received from the external applications  • Involved in configuration, deployment into the Apache Server  • Responsible for implementing the business logic involved in checkout process given by Target    Environment: Java/J2EE, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AWS, Servlets, XML, XSLT, JUnit, Eclipse, Oracle, JSON, Apache Geronimo Server, Agile Methodology and Log4j. Skills ECLIPSE, EJB, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, AWS, Jquery, Nodejs, Angular, Javascript, React, Node