Sr. Java Full stack Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> Full stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Full stack Developer - McKesson Corporation Livonia, MI • 8+ Years competitive work experience in Software Design, Development and Implementation of Enterprise applications using Java, J2EE technologies with strong Object-Oriented Programming skills.  • Extensive experience in designing websites with W3C standards using HTML5/4, CSS3/2 to get best cross-browser user experience for long-term user retention and engagement.  • Strong experience in working with scripting languages like JavaScript, AJAX, and jQuery.  • Extensive knowledge in working with J2EE technologies such as Servlets, JSP, JDBC, EJB, JNDI, Java Beans, and JMS.  • Expertise in various open source frameworks like AngularJS, Bootstrap, JSF, Struts, spring, and Hibernate.  • Creating custom, general use modules and components which extend the elements and modules of core AngularJS.  • Expertise in deploying enterprise applications on Web /Application servers like IBM Web Sphere, JBoss, Apache Tomcat, and BEA Web Logic.  • Hands on experience in creating components using React.js  • Developed the web component using HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Redux and React JS.  • Expertise in implementing IOC and DI features in various aspects of Spring Framework (Core, Web, JDBC, MVC and DAO) and also experienced in integrating Spring Web Flow with other frameworks like JSF.  • Experience in working on Hibernate such as integrating legacy databases, writing custom CRUD statements, integrating stored procedures and functions and polymorphic associations.  • Strong Experience in implementing Service Oriented Architectures and XML technologies such as SAML, XML, XSD, XSL, XSLT (DOM, SAX), and JAX.  • Experience with and solid understanding of Micro services in implementing client-server business applications to build independent task and flexible application.  • Experience building SOA implementations including SOAP and RESTful based web services.  • Extensive development experience on different IDE's like Eclipse, Net Beans, Intelli J Idea, Web Logic Workshop, and WSAD/RAD.  • Extensive experience in developing web applications using Struts framework implementing Action Classes, Action Forms, Struts Validation Framework, Struts Tiles, and Struts Tag Libraries.  • Expertise in writing SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers and data connectivity.  • Extensive experience in implementation of the version control software's SVN, CVS, GIT, and Clear Case.  • Experience in Web Services Technologies like REST, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, JMS, and Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  • Strong experience in container-based technologies like Docker, Kubernetes.  • Expertise in working with cloud services like AWS and No SQL databases like Cassandra, Mongo DB and Couch base.  • Good working knowledge in extreme programming tools like Ant, Maven, Gradle, Log4j, and Junit.  • Designed and coded application components in an Agile Environment, Test Driven Development (TDD) and Waterfall Model.  • Understanding and implementing the virtualization concepts underlying SDN technology - Open Flow, Flow Visor and Controller.  • Good knowledge of UNIX and Linux environment (Solaris and Red Hat).  • Hands on experience in using tools like ANT, Gradle, MAVEN, JAltova, XML, SOAPUI, Git & JIRA.  • Expertise in working with IBM MQ Series and Web Sphere Message Broker on various platforms like Sun Solaris 8/9, AIX, SUSE Linux, and Windows.  • Experience in Cloud based deployments and Container based deployments using Docker, Open Stack and AWS (EC2, S3, and RDS), also Azure Cloud.  • Experience in using Bootstrap and AngularJS, React.js, Redux, Bable.Js, Ember JS and Node.js in effective web design.  • Expertise in design and development in SOA architecture with Web Services which includes implementing and handling of XSDs, SOAP, WSDL files, JAX-B, JAX-WS, authentications using RESTFUL Web Services.  • Effective communication skills, interpersonal skills, leadership skills, self-motivated, quick learner and team player. Work Experience Sr. Java Full stack Developer McKesson Corporation - Livonia, MI April 2018 to Present Description: McKesson Corporation is an American company distributing pharmaceuticals and providing health information technology, medical supplies, and care management tools. The company had revenues of $208.4 billion in 2018.McKesson is based in the United States and distributes health care systems, medical supplies and pharmaceutical products. Additionally, McKesson provides extensive network infrastructure for the health care industry; also, it was an early adopter of technologies like bar-code scanning for distribution, pharmacy robotics, and RFID tags.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the application using agile methodology and followed TDD, Scrum, pair programming.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5,CSS3, Bootstrap, JQuery, Java Script.  • Worked with Angular2 MVC framework including authoring complex directives, services, controllers and filters.  • Integrated the service call with UI using $http and $resources which are substitutes for AJAX in angular.  • Used Angular2 Factories and Services to make Ajax calls or Restful Calls to get data in JSON Format.  • Developed various reusable Helper and Utility classes that are used across all the modules of the application.  • Used Angular2 $http, ng Resources services for accessing content from Restful web service, provided custom services to integrate database with view pages along with pagination, Sorting of data, deep linking (Angular2 route service)  • Developed REST services using spring and Jersey based JAX-RS implementation.  • Configured spring security in the application with LDAP Template and access controls using spring security annotations based on user roles.  • Worked with HTML5, CSS3, JSON, JavaScript, React JS, Redux and ES6 for developing user interface.  • Construct powerful and modern frontend architecture, involving React and Redux.  • Developed Spring Jersey resources for various HTTP methods and to send the requested data in JSON format to the web interface.  • Used spring declarative transaction management and Spring Batch and scheduling for backend data processing.  • Developed ORM mappings using Hibernate and wrote criteria, named and HQL queries for data retrievals in the DAO layer.  • Wrote data Components for Plan Setup, wrote and called Stored Procedures using Java, HQL and Hibernate.  • Exposing and consuming the SOAP web services to the downstream applications using Apache CXF and Apache camel framework.  • Developed Apache Camel endpoints and used producer template to route messages to JMS queues.  • Developed Message Driven Beans (MDBs) for receiving and processing data from Active MQ Series using JMS. Consumed messages in the form of JSON and persisted them with NOSQL database Mongo DB.  • Used Spring Data Mongo DB as the persistence framework in retrieving the Customer application details from Mongo DB.  • With the concept of React JS Worked on usage metrics and end to end events tracing for analysis purpose.  • Used Kubernetes to deploy and manage containers (pods) on Google Container Engine (GKE).  • Created private cloud using Kubernetes that supports development, test and production environments.  • Wrote Restful Service to retrieve billions of data records from Oracle and then pushed the data to Couch base database with 24 hours' time frame.  • Developed REST service documentation using Swagger UI and developed test cases using Junit, Mockito, Spoke framework.  • Expertise in developing, documenting, and executing test cases manually as well as generating automated scripts using Selenium.  • Developed REST exception handling controller advices to respond to bad requests and server-side exceptions.  • Used Oracle to import the data into and feed into web services and displayed it onto the browser.  • Involved in Design, Development and Support phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Performed bug tracking using Jira 10 and Jenkins is used as a build tool.    Environment:  J2EE/J2SE, Java 1.8, JavaScript, Angular2, React.js, Redux , Node.js, Spring Frame Work, Spring Batch, Hibernate, JDBC, Rabbit MQ, JMS, Apache Axis 2.0, Tomcat Web server, LDAP, WSDL, SOA, SOAP, XML, HTML, Log 4j, RAD 7, Cassandra, Mongo DB Oracle, DB2, SunOS (UNIX), Subversion, Maven and Windows 7. Sr. Java Full stack Developer Oracle - Seattle, WA December 2016 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  • Developed Angular JS components such as controllers, filters, models, services, and used Http Service for rest service invocation.  • Configured routing in the single page application promoting rich user experience.  • Created Custom directives for reusable components used across the application.  • Developed UI screens for attendance module using Angular-JS, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap and, JavaScript.  • Responsible for working on consuming and producing SOA Micro services /Web Services.  • Played key role in the design and development of application using J2EE and Rest web service (Jersey frameworks) for Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) with JSON.  • Implemented Angular JS Service layer with utility functions to get data from back end using Rest based service calls and pass back to Angular Controllers.  • Designing user Interface using Angular UI components such as tabs, grids, dropdowns etc. and configured the routing service using Angular JS router.  • Designed and developed individual Micro services for search modules.  • Secured the REST services using Spring Boot Framework and created documented REST services using Swagger and Jersey.  • Consumed REST services using Apache HTTP Client for various HTTP methods like GET, PUT, POST and DELETE.  • Provided required Caching to cache data for REST services using Cache Control directives and HTTP SQUID Cache.  • Consumed REST based Micro services with Rest template based on RESTful APIs.  • Configure CI/CD pipeline for Restful API and deploy API on AWS stack.  • Also, refactored micro service to make it RESTful, thread-safe, more configurable and went live without problems.  • Involved in implementing Ansible configuration management and maintaining them in several environments on AWS cloud and VMware.  • Writing Chef Recipes for automating tasks and managed Chef to configure Web Apps and deploy them on AWS server.  • Deploying and maintaining production environment using AWS EC2 instances and ECS with Docker.  • Virtualized the servers using Docker for the test environments and dev-environments needs, also configuration automation using Docker containers.  • Developed Java Spring Boot RESTful API services, extensive use of Camel framework and components, Kafka pub/sub, ensuring real-time updates of Cassandra clusters across AWS cloud regions and the legacy datacenters.  • Prepare Solr queries & Sql queries to support Micro Services integration with Cassandra cluster.  • Worked on creating Docker Containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle.  • Design and develop the Process Engine framework using JBPM.  • Created Hibernate mapping files, sessions, transactions, HQL Queries to fetch data from data base.  • Business objects developed using POJOs and data access layer using Hibernate.  • Maintaining the customer support and customer data from database tables in Oracle database.  • Consumed messages in the form of JSON and persisted them with Oracle 11g database.  • Used Rabbit MQ as Message queue application which connects to the queue and transfer a message onto it.  • Worked with business analysts and coordinates with them to make sure the data is being populated properly.  • Extensively performed Database testing using Selenium.  • Configured Maven for dependency management and build the entire application.  • Involved in working, updating and closing the tasks created in GIT.  • Was responsible for analyzing the issues, providing technical & functional support to the users and fix them.    Environment:  Java1.8, Spring 4, Spring boot, Apache Camel, Angular-JS 1.5, Angular-UI, Bootstrap, CSS, HTML5,JMS, Tomcat, Jersey, Karma, Gulp, LDAP, Hibernate, Agile, Oracle11g, Rabbit MQ, Node-JS, Unix, Eclipse, Brackets, Maven, GIT, Jenkins, Selenium, SQL Developer, Junit. Java Developer Frontier Communications - Irving, TX October 2015 to November 2016 Responsibilities:  • Created Call flow diagrams for IVR applications. Used STRUTS framework in designing the IVR application.  • Used ECMA Script for revalidations when caller provides input thru DTMF or thru Voice. Used Java Servlets and JSPs to generate VXML code dynamically.  • Developed reusable code for Application Root.jsp, Header, Footer using JSF and JSP. Developed Struts View Components, Action Classes and JSP's and configuration components while employing MVC, Data Access Object, Session Façade, Service locator and Factory design patterns.  • Reviewed NUANCE ORS Logs, Pop Gateway, T server, I server logs in troubleshooting when GVP does not answer the calls. Involved as Team member in Analysis, Design and Development using Servlets, JSP, and Apache Struts.  • Created voice applications using GVP-VPM and configured the application URLS with local host and tested the application call flows. Developed JSPs that generates VXML pages and also invokes Struts action classes using <Sub><Submit><Goto> VXML tags.  • Wrote External SRGS grammars and validated using Parse tool. Provided recommendations to the VUI design and re-designed some of the dialogue states, prompts and grammar files. Supported the ONCALL production system.  • Performed Speech tuning after analyzing the call logs thoroughly. Wrote SQL queries to extract the back end data for the required test cases. Designed the Speech Applications with Call Flow charts using the Visio and was actively involved during the VUI design and grammar development requirements phase.  • Analyzed the call logs and provided recommendations to improve performance based on where most of the calls were failing or callers getting transferred, recognition failures etc. Assisted in restarting the Watchdog, Speech Media Server, T server, I server.  • Introduced VUI design principles and created VUI design document by working. Prepared Sanity test cases for every dialogue states that IVR application supports.  • Participated in QA project meetings and helped then in writing the IVR QA test cases. Called the Web services and then extracted each member's policy information into the IVR application. Web Services in turn get the data from the back-end Mainframe systems. Utilized the NBest techniques.  • Copied the audio, Nuance grammar files into the Linux boxes using WINSCP tool. Used ECMA script for revalidations when caller provides input thru DTMF or through Voice.    Environment:  Spring, Hibernate, Security, JSF, JPA, EJB 3.0, AJAX, JBoss, Java/J2EE, JSP, IBM, Web Sphere, JavaScript, Fast R web, AWK, Python Programming, HTML5, Struts, CSS, Java 1.5, Java, 1.6, Oracle10g, Microsoft Visio, CVS, JMS and Eclipse.</Goto></Submit></Sub> Sr. Java/J2EE Developer HSBC - Chicago, IL March 2014 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Provided technical guidance to business analysts, gather the requirements and convert them into technical specifications/artifacts.  • Part of 6-member team that developed an innovative virtual keyboard module used in the product and the same has been patented.  • Designed and Developed the UI screens using JSF Rich Faces, jQuery, and Xhtml.  • Involved in writing JSF Backing Beans for controlling the UI and writing custom components and validations.  • Implemented JSF Converters to handle formatting and Localization and configured the faces-config.xml to create a web application navigation rule using Spring Web flow.  • Used AJAX with JSON to fetch data on fly.  • Implemented J2EE design patterns such as Session Facade, Factory, DAO, DTO and MVC.  • Used log4j for logging mechanism.  • Developed web services transferring data through soap over http using top down methodology.  • Designed and Developed xml schema to represent the data model objects in an xml.  • Developed XML, XML Schema and Parsers using SAX and DOM, implemented System Oriented Architecture methodologies.  • Configured JDBC and LDAP Security in the application server.  • Implemented caching techniques, wrote POJO classes for storing data and DAO's to retrieve the data and did other database configurations using Hibernate.  • Wrote Hibernate configuration file, hibernate mapping files and define persistence classes to persist the data into Oracle Database.  • Developed Messaging frame work for Asynchronous service using JMS.  • Used log4j for tracking errors and debugging the code.  • Used Sonar (SonarQube 6.0) as code quality and assurance tool for Integrated Eligibility System.  • Involved in unit testing and system testing and responsible for preparing test scripts for the system testing.  • Coordinating with the testing team and fixing Bugs at various stages of the application development.  • Developing test requirements by decomposing the functional requirements and interacting with End-users, business analysts and developers.  • Have done User Acceptance testing team for the in-house product.  • Wrote Junit test classes for the services and prepared documentation    Environment:  Java 1.5, Servlets, JSF 2.0, Spring 2.5, JMS, Web Services 6.0/6.1, SOAP, WSDL, JDBC, Hibernate 3.0, RAD 7, UML, HTML, JavaScript, XML, Web Sphere 6.1, Log4j, SQL Server 2005, Junit, JNDI. Java/J2EE Developer Spencer's - Bengaluru, Karnataka January 2013 to February 2014 Responsibilities:  • Implemented J2EE design pattern of type MVC.  • This project was to develop the e-commerce platform of Spencer's in India.  • Built the home page, implemented the add product functionality along with the variations in the product features.  • Implemented the checkout functionality and the payment gateway.  • Created Single Page Application with loading multiple views using route services and adding more user experience to make it more dynamic by using AngularJS framework.  • Involved in designing the user interfaces using JSPs.  • Developed a multi-user web application using JSP, JSTL, Action Forms, Action Classes, JavaScript and JDBC to provide the needed functionality.  • Developed Junit test cases for all the developed modules.  • Designed and implemented four Agile Scrum teams for product development  • Developed the UML Use Cases, Activity, Sequence and Class diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Developed the User Interface Screens for presentation using JSP, JSTL tags, HTML and CSS.  • Developed JSP pages and Servlets for customer maintenance  • Experience with SQL and basic CRUD operations  • Developed and debugged JSP, Servlets, and EJB's.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration testing for all the modules of the system.  • Developed Web Pages using HTML and used JavaScript for validations  • Implemented J2EE and Core design patterns - Value Objects, DAO, and Singleton.  • The application architecture of the System is based on MVC (Model View Controller) framework  • Used JDBC and JNDI for database connectivity  • Developed code to communicate with Oracle 8i database using JDBC API.  • Building the test cases based in the business logic.    Environment:  Java, JSP, EJB, J2EE Design Patterns, VO, singleton, MVC, HTML, Java Script, CSS, Oracle 9i, JDBC, XML, Junit, Eclipse, ANT. Java/J2EE Developer ING Vysya Bank - Delhi, Delhi May 2011 to December 2012 Responsibilities:  • Developed UI for Customer Service Modules and Reports using JSF, JSP's, Prime Faces and Apache My Faces Components, Ajax4JSF framework (Ajax), JavaScript and Backing Beans.  • Implemented Ajax using Ajax4JSF Framework and nested taglibs API along with other standard taglibs in the application.  • Designed and developed business components using spring.  • Used spring's JDBC Template for the database operations.  • Designed and developed handler to log performance, request and responses.  • Developed various reusable Helper and Utility classes which are used across all the modules of the application.  • Developed SOAP based web services using JAX-WS.  • Used log4J for tracking errors and de-bugging the code.  • Responsible for coding SQL Statements and Stored procedures for back end communication using JDBC.  • Wrote stored procedures using PL/SQL for data retrieval from different tables.  • Extensively used Oracle 9g as backend database for the application for retrieving the Order/Customer history and for providing data scrubs.  • Worked extensively on bug fixes on the server side.  • Part of performance tuning team and implemented caching mechanism and other changes.  • Configured XML Bridges' request and response queues using SonicMQ to process XML messages from other interfaces and applications and invoke the responsible EJB handler.  • Responsible for fixing defects and implementing stories in Fast-track SDLC development cycles.  • Responsible for conducting Impact analysis for the given Change Request.  • Worked on Requirements Gathering, Design, coding and various phases of testing with very stringent timelines.  • Involved in preparing the Documentation of the project to understand the system efficiently.  • Participated in meetings of internal developer groups for development standards.    Environment:  Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JSF 1.2, Spring 2.0, EJB 2.1, XML, JavaScript, Ant, RAD6, SQL, Oracle 9i, Hibernate, Toad, Log4j, Web Sphere 6.1, Windows NT/2000, UNIX, SOAP, XML, XSLT. Education Bachelor's in computer science in computer science Acharya Nagarjuna University Skills Eclipse, Java, Spring, Javabeans, jquery, Rmi, Wsad, .net, C++, Design patterns, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Node.js, Redux, Svn, Xml, Xsl, Xslt, Db2 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/athafhussain-shaik-285069188/ Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages C, C++, Java (J2SE1.5/1.4, J2EE1.5/1.4), SQL, PL/SQL, UML2.0  Technologies  JSP2.1/2.0/1.2, Servlets2.x, JavaBeans, JDBC, Struts2.x/1.x, RMI, EJB3.0/2.1, Hibernate3.x/2.x, Spring 3.0/2.0/1.0, Web Services, SOA, JMS1.1, SAX and DOM Parsers, AJAX, JAXB2.1/2.0, JAXP1.x, LDAP, .NET, Sybase Power Designer    Web Technologies HTML/DHTML, XHTML1.1, JavaScript/jQuery, Angular JS, Bootstrap, Node.js, React JS, Redux , XML, XSL, XSLT, CSS  Development Tools (IDEs) Eclipse3.2/3.0/2.1.1, My Eclipse 6.0/5.1.1, RAD7.0/6.0, WSAD 5.x/4. x.  Web/Application Servers Tomcat 6.x/5.x, WebLogic10.3/9.2/8.1/7.0, IBM Web Sphere 6.x/5.x/4. x.  Design Patterns MVC, Front Controller, Session Façade, Singleton, Business Delegate and DAO patterns  RDBMS Oracle 12c/11g/10g/9i/8i, MS SQL Server 2008/2005/2000, MySQL 5.1/4.1, DB2 9.1/8.1/7.2  Platforms Windows, UNIX, LINUX  Testing Tools JUnit 4.x, Load runner 11.0/11.5, Quick Test Pro, HP Performance Center  Version Control CVS, SVN, VSS and Rational Clear Case  Methodologies Agile (Scrum, TDD), Waterfall.