Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - JPMorgan Chase & Co Columbus, OH • Around 6+ years of Information Technology experience with strong experience in Java/J2EE Application Development, Web Application Design, and Object-Oriented Programming, testing and implementation Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Extensive experience in J2EE technologies including specialization in JAVA SE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JNDI, Java Beans, XML, Struts, Oracle, HTML, and EJB for building Server-side Application with multilayer architecture.  • Extensive experience in Web application development using - HTML, DHTML, CSS, XML, UML, JavaScript, Ajax, spring, Hibernate, Struts, J2EE (JSP, JMS, Servlets, JDBC, Java Beans, EJB).  • Experienced in deploying J2EE Application Sever like Apache Tomcat7.x, JBoss 4.2.3, Weblogic8.x/9.x and Web sphere 6.x, 7.0 servers.  • Working knowledge with Ant and Maven as Dependency Management and build tool in single module and multi module environment.  • Knowledge of using Model View Controller (MVC) Architecture based presentation using JSF framework.  • Strong Knowledge on Microsoft azure cloud services, storage accounts and virtual networks.  • Strong exposure working with J2EE design patterns like MVC, Singleton and Factory Method.  • Good knowledge in bug tracking tools like JIRA.  • Expertise in using of Node JS, Express JS, and Mongo DB along with Mongoose.JS to create server side applications.  • Extensive use of Version Controls like SVN, CVS and GIT subversions.  • Experienced in Maintaining BEA WebLogic Server, on different UNIX (Sun Solaris 9/10, HP-UNIX, and AIX) Red Hat Linux, SUSE Linux and Windows XP/ 2003/2008 setting up the Development, Testing, Staging and Production environments.  • Installed JDK, WebLogic, SOA suite, in GUI, Console and Silent mode  • Experienced in configuring WebLogic servers in a Cluster solution for High Availability, Load balancing and fail over support.  • Good Knowledge on Selenium IDE and creating Scripts in Selenium RC by using Java.  • Good knowledge in Spring Boot Application.  • Experienced in Maintaining BEA WebLogic Server, on different UNIX (Sun Solaris 9/10, HP-UNIX, and AIX) Red Hat Linux, SUSE Linux and Windows XP/ 2003/2008 setting up the Development, Testing, Staging and Production environments.  • Good Experience in web application design using open source Struts, Spring MVC, Amazon Web Services (AWS), JSF, Frameworks and J2EE Design Patterns.  • Working knowledge of Cloud-based infrastructure tools and components of AWS (EC2, S3, Virtual Private Cloud (VPC), Lambda (Serverless computing) and RDS/dynamo DB).  • Expertise on most of the Linux command-line commands.  • Proven experience in writing SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Functions and Packages using TOAD, MySQL and Oracle database tool.  • Strong knowledge of OOPS ( Java) along with understanding of SQL.  • Good understanding of Views, Synonyms, Indexes, Joins, and Sub-Queries.  • Experience with XML and related standards and technologies like Web Services, SOAP, WSDL, HTML, CFML, CSS, and JavaScript Angular1.6.  • Strong exposure with Agile Methodologies and Waterfall Model.  • Excellent understanding of project issues, tracking, solving and closing issues. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java Developer JPMorgan Chase & Co - Columbus, OH January 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked on Agile Methodology for development of the application.  • Involve in gathering the requirements, analyzing the user specifications, and developing the application.  • Used Java, J2EE, Hibernate and Spring Framework on server side.  • Used J2EE Design Patterns such as Singleton Pattern, Factory Pattern etc.  • Used Spring MVC framework on implementing backend Controllers.  • Used Hibernate ORM to implement the middle tier with Spring IOC, AOP, Hibernate DAO Support and other features.  • Used Hibernate, object/relational-mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to MySQL Relational data model.  • Used Data Access Objects (DAO) to abstract and encapsulate all access to the data source.  • Create fully functional Restful web services supporting both XML and JSON message transformation.  • Used optimistic locking skills to solve the issue of the data conflicts and concurrent edit.  • Used Spring Boot to develop the RESTful controller and service layer to handle the user's request.  • Extensive use Java 8 features such as Lambda Expressions, Stream API on collections for effective sorting mechanism.  • Performed Backend testing based on the Junit test and Mockito. Used Git for version control.    Environment: J2EE, JDK 1.8, Spring, Spring boot, Spring MVC, Hibernate, JavaScript, Angular, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, REST, Web Services, JMS, JUnit, MySQL, Maven, Linux. Full Stack Developer Walgreens Co - Deer - Field, IL, US March 2018 to January 2019 Responsibilities:  • Developed the business logic layer components in middle tier of the application using Spring Designed Framework and Spring Boot.  • Used Spring AOP terminologies to handle transaction management and logging.  • Involved in developing new Front-end pages using Angular1.6.  • Used Spring framework for Dependency Injection and integrated with Hibernate.  • Developed project by Agile Methodology, test driven development (TDD) and scrum status meetings and worked closely with client to handle Distributed Scrum teams.  • Built Weblogic 12c and Tomcat domains on Linux and Windows environments.  • Performed Weblogic server administration tasks like configuring Managed servers and setup cluster environment.  • Experienced in transferring data from different data sources into HDFS systems using Kafka producers, consumers and Kafka brokers  • Developed RESTful services in Java Spring Boot to integrate with LDAP for user registration, login and reset/change password functionalities, also for payment processing etc.  • Designed and developed XML processing components for the dynamic display of the menu on the application.  • Used Core Java concepts OOPs, Multi-threading, Collections, Exception handling, Java 8 and Interfaces for the implementation of Core Concepts.  • Used Java8 features to develop the application like lambda expressions, Streams, Functional Interfaces and used default and static methods in interfaces.  • Involved in developing Web Services using RESTful and SOAP frameworks and created SOAP using WSDL, XML and SOAP for transferring of data.  • Worked with jQuery Plugin Message, jQuery slider plugin and Node.js  • Independently developing a REST API with Node.js, MySQL on AWS RDS, and Express on AWS EC2.    • Extensively used Hibernate, ORM mapping solution technique, to map data representation from MVC model and Oracle Relational Data Model with a SQL based schema.  • Developed SQL Queries for retrieving the data from the database  • Configured and built Spring MVC application on Tomcat web server.  • Used JUnit framework for Unit testing of application and developed Test classes.  • Used Oracle 11g database for tables creation and involved in the creation of the Data Access Objects (DAO) to query, store and retrieve the data from the Database using SQL, calling Oracle Stored Procedures.  • JavaScript is used for client-side validation and scripting functions.  • Deployed WARs, EARs using Weblogic Admin Console as well as running scripts.  • Tested Rest web services using Postman.  • Configured and built Spring MVC application on Tomcat server.  • Implemented Ajax for creating interactive web application and for avoiding reloading of page for each request.    Environment: Hibernate, spring, Spring Boot, AWS, JSP 2.4, HTML5, CSS3, Weblogic Server 10.3.x,Angular 1.6, jQuery, Node JS, XML, XSLT, SQL Server, React.JS, Node.Js, Java 8, Maven, JDBC, Apache Tomcat, Eclipse, Git, Windows XP, postman, Oracle. Sr. Java Developer Black knight Financial Services - Cincinnati, OH February 2017 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  • Implemented SOA to develop Spring Restful/Microservices as a part of service discovery using Apache Axis.  • Extensively worked on developing Thread safe blocks for multithreaded access and distributed transaction management.  • Worked on Converting UI module into Single Page application using Angular 1.6 with Routing and Custom directives.  • Coordinated Kafka operations and monitoring with dev ops personal formulated balancing  • Involved in developing production Node.JS applications with the use of Express module.  • Used Amazon Web Services like EC2 and Elastic Bean Stalk for deployment.  • Hands on experience with MongoDB installation, Configuring, Monitoring and designing the Environment.  • Used GIT as version configuration tool and JIRA for defect management system.  • Used NodeJS architectural concepts like event loop, callbacks and event emitters.  • Involved in developing ORM mappings using Hibernate and created HSQL Queries for data retrieval in the DAO layer.  • Built a prototype front-end React /Node.js application that utilizes a third party API.  • Implemented email and SSO integration using Node.js for backend and Angular.js in frontend.  • Used J2EE design patterns like Session Facade, Factory, DAO design patterns to build the application.  • Involved in Writing Ant build files, for the build (Creation of JAR, WAR and EAR) and deployment of application on the server. Worked on mapping the database schema, writing Hibernate Classes, gathering Business requirements to build the page logic, and implementing to match the mockup. Maintained and updated the Jasper Reports  • Built Weblogic and Tomcat domains on Linux and Windows environment using HPSA tool.  • Performed Weblogic server administration tasks like configuring Managed servers and setup cluster environment.  • Used Spring Inversion of Control (IOC) for injecting the beans and implemented the Model View Controller using Spring MVC.  • Involved in Creating Junit test cases to test the application.  • Used Java8 features in the application like Lambda Expressions, Streams, Functional Interfaces and used default as well as static methods in Interfaces.  • Extensively worked with making calls to APIs to fetch the data from the backend as JSON response and parse it on the UI for DOM/CSS Manipulation.    Environment: Java SE, MongoDB, Angular 1.6, AWS, NodeJS, HTML, OOPs, Multi-threading, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JBOSS EAP 6&7, AJAX, SOAP, Weblogic Server 10.3.x/9.x, SOA, RESTFUL Web Services, PL/SQL, JSP, Servlets, Spring MVC, DHTML, JSON. Java/J2EE Developer Union Bank - Monterey Park, CA October 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in designing, developing and testing of J2EE components like Java Beans, Java, XML, Collection Framework, JSP, spring and Hibernate.  • Used Spring/MVC framework to enable the interactions between JSP/View layer and implemented different design patterns with J2EE and XML technology.  • Involved in handling transactions using Spring Declarative Transaction management.  • Implemented Caching mechanism using Spring Gem Fire Template.  • Implemented DAO layer using different hibernate techniques like strategies, Inheritance, annotations and criteria interfaces.  • Used SOA Integration service for Data Integration Service and Functional Integration Service. Used SOAP UI for the functional testing and inspection and invocation of spring-based Web Services.  • Designing new components to fit in the already existing architecture using core Java, multi-threading different design patterns like the factory method, Abstract factory pattern, Singleton. While developing web-based applications used Web Services, both SOAP/WSDL and REST.  • Developed Web application using JavaScript, AJAX, Java applets and servlets, HTML, XML and template languages.  • Implemented PL/SQL queries and used Oracle stored procedures, and built-in functions to retrieve and update data from the databases. Worked on server-side web applications using Node.js.  • Involved in Construction of UI using jQuery, AngularJS, Ext.js, Bootstrap and JavaScript.  • Implemented Ajax and jQuery-based navigation system visually identical to previous table-based system to improve ease of maintenance and organic search engine placement.  • Developed real time tracking of class schedules using Node JS (socket.io based on socket technology, Express JS framework).  • Developed the war/ear file using Ant script and deployed into Web Sphere Application Server.  • Developed specialized search system using Cassandra DB, Angular 1.6, Java Servlets, JUnit, Maven.  • Deployed, Managed and Monitored Cassandra DB Replica Sets / Databases. Prototyped Mongo DB new features across multiple stacks.    Environment: Java SE, MongoDB, AWS, NodeJS, HTML, OOPs, Multi-threading, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, SOAP, SOA, Maven, JDBC, Apache Tomcat, Eclipse, Git, Windows XP, postman, Oracle. Software Engineer Amdocs - Pune, Maharashtra August 2012 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the requirements gathering. Design, Development, Unit testing and Bug fixing.  • Developed a Restful web application using Spring Framework, Spring, Hibernate.  • Used Multithreading to enable multiple operations to be performed simultaneously.  • Developed Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams and Sequence diagrams to express the detail design.  • Implemented MVC architecture using spring framework developed Controllers, Form beans and configured the spring configuration file.  • Used validation framework in the application.  • Worked with EJBs (Session and Entity) to implement the business logic to handle various interactions with the database.  • Worked on Messenger service in various modules to communicate with JMS for asynchronous communication within Loan Application System.  • Wrote stored procedures, functions and triggers in PL/SQL.  • Developed critical elements of the server framework like user authentication, access control.  • Implemented messaging interfaces for asynchronous communication.  • Deployed business components into WebSphere Application Server.  • Wrote SAX and DOM XML parsers and used SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface.  • Used XSL/XSLT for transforming and displaying reports. Developed Schemas for XML.  • Involved in design and developing re-usable web services using SOAP, XML, WSDL, UDDI, DOM, XML Schemas, JAXP, and XSL.  • Involved in writing the ANT scripts to build and deploy the application.  • Extensively used WSAD 5.1 while writing code & used CVS for version control.  • Utilized Hibernate for Object/Relational Mapping purposes for transparent persistence onto the Oracle 9i database using HSQL.  • Consistently produced the highest quality code through disciplined and rigorous unit testing and integration testing.    Environment: Java, J2EE, spring 2.0, EJB 2.0, JDBC, Servlets 2.4, JSP 2.0, JSTL, XML, XSL, XSLT, JMS, JNDI, SOAP, Oracle 9i, ANT, JUnit, WebSphere Application Server 6.1, WSAD 5.1, CVS, Log4J, JavaScript, Hibernate 2.0, Windows XP. Education Master of Science (MS) in CS in CS Northwestern Polytechnic University Bachelor's in Computer Science Engineering in Computer Science Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills Bea, Bea weblogic, Eclipse, J2ee, J2se, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jboss, Jms, jquery, Jsf, Jsp, Servlets, Application server, Design patterns, Dtd, Git, Javascript, Json, Angular Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages Java 8/J2SE 1.7, 1.6, XML, AWS Shell Script, SQL, PL/SQL  J2EE Technologies JAVA /J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JMS, Web Services, REST, SOAP  Web Technologies JavaScript, jQuery, CSS/CSS3,HTML5, Angular1.6, XML, JSON, AJAX  Frameworks Struts2, LOG4J, Spring Core, Spring MVC, JSF, Hibernate, Junit, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Spring Security  Databases Oracle 9i/10g/11g, MS Access, IBM DB2, MS SQL Server 2005/2008, My SQL.  IDE & Development Tools Eclipse, RAD, J Builder, NetBeans. Spring Tool Suite, SQL Plus, XML Spy, Pipeline Pilot  XML Technologies XML, XSD, XSL, XML Schemas, DTD, DOM, SAX, FOP  Web/App Servers Tomcat.9, WebSphere Application Server, BEA WebLogic, JBoss  Version Control Tools CVS, Git, Sub Version  Operating Systems UNIX, Linux, MS DOS, Windows NT, 2000, XP, 2003/XP/Vista/7/10  Methodologies SDLC, RUP, Agile/SCRUM, UML, Design Patterns, SOA  Testing Tools JUnit 4.x, JIRA, Rally, TestNG, Version1, SoapUI JUnit 4.x, TestNG