Developer and Production Support <span class="hl">Developer</span> and Production Support Developer and Production Support Arizona City, AZ ? Around 8 Years of Strong software experience in design, development and deployment of web-based Client-Server business applications using UI authoring and web technologies.  ? Experience in Web based Application Development includes Java, Spring, Hibernate, Spring Boot, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, ES2015, React, Angular, Node, REST Web Services.  ? Developed micro services architecture using Rest APIs, Spring boot and AWS.  ? Worked with React, React Router and Redux state management of application.  ? Worked on Redux Thunk/Sagas as a middle ware to make AJAX calls using fetch.  ? Good experience on CSS background, layouts, Positioning, Animation, Borders, Padding, Tables, Pseudo classes and Pseudo elements.  ? Worked with Bootstrap for Responsive Web design. Worked with SASS preprocessor.  ? Worked with Angular pipes, services, directives, components, integration with backend.  ? Migrated existing Angular JS application to Angular 2/4  ? Used Node for developing REST web services using Express and integrating with Mongo db.  ? Developed a Mobile application for android and iOS with React Native and phone gap in different projects.  ? Design, develop, test and maintain the application built on J2EE, Spring, and Hibernate.  ? Implementation of jQuery and AngularJS, to build UI and its integration with Spring framework.  ? Experience in developing web applications using JSP, servlet, JSTL, JMS and Spring  ? Proficient in developing applications as Microservices using Spring Boot.  ? Hands-on experience with Amazon Web Services (AWS) like EC2, Lambda, S3 Bucket, DynamoDB, API Gateway, CloudFront, RDS, Elastic Beanstalk.  ? Experience in Apache Tomcat Server, JBoss, Web Logic/Sphere Application Server.  ? Experience in developing project (SDLC) in Agile and Waterfall methodology.  ? The application was developed in Java/EE based on Spring Web MVC framework.  ? Extensive experience with Core Java , Transaction Management, Exception Handling and Collections.  ? Worked with Microservices using J2EE Web Services based on Spring Boot and created dynamic documentation of RESTful endpoints using Swagger API.  ? Experienced in design and development of Service Oriented Architecture(SOA) Web Services using JAX-WS (SOAP) with Apache-Cxf framework and JAX-RS (REST) with Jersey framework.  ? Hands on experience in using Spring Data JPA that helped in creating automatic Data Access Objects (DAOs) at the compile time.  ? Solid Experience with ORM frameworks such as Hibernate, Spring JPA and Ibatis, Spring Data and Spring JDBC.  ? Good experience in writing stored procedures, functions and triggers using PL/SQL in JDBC, ODBC and in WebLogic server.  ? Strong experience with the version controls GIT, GITHUB, Bit Bucket, SVN.  ? Experience in conveying and arranging application servers, for example, IBM WebSphere, Oracle WebLogic and Apache Tomcat. Work Experience Developer and Production Support Nike March 2019 to July 2019 DESCRIPTION: Experience in analysis, development and maintenance of various Java/J2EE web applications. Have rich experience in Retail domain.  Roles Responsibilities  ? Extensively worked on Technologies such as Core Java 8, Spring Boot, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and ReactJS.  ? Developed the Spring Features such as Spring boot Spring Core, Spring DAO and implemented Spring JMSTempltae using Hibernate ORM (Object Relational Mapping).  ? Developed user interface by using the React JS, React Router for SPA development. Worked with Redux for state management of React application.  ? Used Node for developing REST web services using Express and integrating with Mongo db.  ? Developed Micro Services and Web Services using Java 8 & Spring Boot.  ? Worked with Bootstrap for Responsive Web design. Worked with SASS preprocessor.  ? Supported an AngularJS, Angular6, Angular7 application in production.  ? Team management from onsite and offshore.  ? Incident, problem and change management process to make team followed the guideline.  ? Application System Monitoring, Performance monitoring, DB monitoring and acknowledge escalations within defined SLA. (LAE Console, Splunk and Elastic Load balancer).  ? Experience in web based Application monitoring tools & reporting.  ? Providing Quick solutions for critical service and high business impact incidents.  ? Work closely with War room for prioritizing the normalization issues.  ? Support change management for any infra changes and test Prod system availability.  ? Track ownership for Incident, problem, Change management.  ? Review and deliver the quarterly /monthly metrics within given SLA  ? Provide technical expertise while actively participating in projects including requirements gathering, implementation, development, testing, and deployment.  ? Experience working with ServiceNow, Remedy and Heat for Incident tracking/ticketing systems  ? Research products, methods, or tools, that may assist in enhancing work activity.  ? Provided 24/7 on-call support for production, strong team player, good analytical skills.  ? Have excellent logical, analytical & debugging skills Possesses high working qualities with good interpersonal skills, highly motivated, fast learner, good team player and very proactive in problem solving with providing best solutions.  ? Involved in Business Requirement analysis, Application Maintenance and Support.  ? Knowledgeable with Agile model of software development.  ? involved in the enhancements, Data analysis and providing the support during the cut over and post production cut over support. I have worked on Data& Services,User and Access Privileges application which comes under GTM Sales 2.0 program.  ? User Access and privileges is the application that controls the access of the users and the geo-admins over various Nike.net applications.    Environment: Java 8, Spring Boot, Hibernate, Unix shell scripting, Angular6, Angular7 Elastic search, Soap UI, MongoDB, Spring, SOAP UI, Java, HTML, Angular JS, React JS IntelliJ IDEA, MYSQL, Git, GITHUB    Work Experience JAVA UI Developer VARG, California, CA May 2018 to February 2019 DESCRIPTION: IT services company that provides end-to-end IT solutions such as systems integration, outsourcing, consulting. It is committed to add value to their customers. They also help their clients to reduce operating costs, boost productivity, and enhance customer service.    ? Designed and developed the web application by using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, React.js, Redux, Jest, Node.js and MongoDB.  ? Designed and implemented a SPA (Single Page Application) in React JS which consume JSON from a Spring Boot, using Spring Security to secure the Application.  ? Worked on building micro services projects from scratch using spring boot.  ? Used Hibernate as an O/R mapping tool for selecting, inserting and updating the records in the database.  ? Extensively used Spring MVC architecture for the application development.  ? Extensively used Eclipse IDE for developing, debugging, integrating and deploying the application.  ? Implemented Log4j by enabling logging at runtime without modifying the application binary.  ? Primarily worked on the spring components such as Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers, Model and View Objects, View Resolver. Designed various types of controllers needed for services, utilities, helpers and other classes and packages including business logic handlers.  ? Used Node.JS for running the applications and involved in the development of node grunt files and other bower files.  ? Responsible for React UI and Building components library, including Tree, Slide-View, and Table Grid.  ? Implement various screens for the frontend using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM and redux library.  ? Worked with Node.js environment set-up and interacted Node Service team to get the Service.  ? Having experience in Amazon web services (AWS) for handling the code versions and production releases.  ? Installed application on AWS EC2 instances by setting up Virtual Private Cloud (VPC's) and also configured the storage on S3 buckets.  ? Built NoSQL schemas and maintaining sessions by MongoDB  ? Written SQL Queries and stored procedures to interact with Oracle DB.  ? Worked with Mocha unit test framework to write unit tests for JavaScript code.  ? Utilized Maven as fabricate computerization apparatus for sending the venture on Tomcat Application Server.  ? Involved in development of individual Sprints with the help of GitHub.  ? Worked on JIRA to maintain and update the task.  ? Use Github for Version Control to track check-ins and rollback code; Managed all source code on GitLab.  ? Design and develop UI classes to build the business logic of product.  ? Used Bootstrap framework for developing customizable and fully responsive for various screen sizes in mobile, tablet and desktop. Extensively used SOAP-based web services.  ? Responsible to manipulate HTML, CSS in JQuery as well as making page's dynamic using AJAX, JSON and XML.  ? Worked on ReactJS Virtual Dom and rendering views using components which contains additional components called custom HTML tags.  ? Expertise in developing MVC architecture for web based applications using Struts and Spring MVC framework.  ? Good experience in working with Web/Application servers likes Jboss Application Server, WebLogic, Web Sphere and Apache Tomact.  ? Hands on experience in Agile and all stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)    Environment: MYSQL5, CSS, d3.js, AJAX, Java 8, 1.4.1, React.js, Bootstrap, HTML, JavaScript, MS Word, Grunt, UNIX, Eclipse IDE 5.5.0, Github, Angular6, Angular7 Java Full Stack Developer Verizon, FLORIDA, FL June 2017 to April 2018 Building applications using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Java, Spring, Ajax, JSON, Angular 2, AngularJS and Bootstrap with MySQL database.  ? Developed an application using Spring MVC for RESTful web services.  ? Used hibernate for database persistence.  ? Experienced in developing a user interface application using HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, Type Script, React, Angular 2 and Node JS.  ? Maintained an existing React, Redux, jQuery, Angular JS based application.  ? Developed application with React, Redux, JSX and Webpack.  ? Migrated with AngularJS with Angular 2.  ? Worked with Angular 2.0 directives, components, and services.  ? Participated in development of a new business application for the layout using Grid orientation model Bootstrap framework.  ? Integrated the frontend JQuery UI with backend REST API.  ? Developed source code to consume JSON response received through XHR/AJAX calls using JQuery. Implemented Angular 2 application to follow strict MVC patterns for improved source code maintenance.  ? Creating cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS based page layouts.  ? Built responsive site using Bootstrap that fits devices of different visual sizes.  ? Involved in Designing, Implementation, Maintenance and Testing of Databases and Web pages.  ? Used NodeJS and Java to perform server-side backend operations.  ? Developed and prepared test cases for unit testing with JUnit.  ? Wrote the backend to modify the tags in the database using JSON for data transmission.  ? Developed the UI using SWT to add/remove tags.  ? Developed callback functions to parse and handle JSON data returned from the server.  ? Created popup forms using Bootstrap Modals, Angular Modals and Angular2 Components. Used Custom Angular2 pipes to provide better search experience.  ? Used different JQuery selectors, traversing through HTML DOM elements using JQuery provided methods.  ? Experience in Transaction management in Spring JDBC template by using Prepared Statement.  ? Defined new validations through Angular js for the form field validation implemented through HTML5.  ? Used IBM WebSphere web application servers.  ? Experience in writing Queries, Stored procedures, Functions, Packages, and Triggers.  ? Developed JUnit test cases for all the developed modules.  ? JavaScript has been traditionally implemented as an interpreted language, but more recent browsers perform just-in-time compilation.  ? Used the Struts Validator Framework to validate the form data.  ? Worked on React JS Virtual Dom and React views, rendering using components which contains additional components called custom HTML tags.    Environment: HTML, CSS, SASS, JavaScript, Angular2, AngularJS, JSON, Bootstrap, Angular6, Angular7, MVC Framework, Node JS, JAVA, Spring, Hibernate Apache Tomcat, Notepad++, Sublime text, MySQL, Microsoft Azure, Tortoise SVN Java Full Stack Developer Ameriprise Financial Inc - Minneapolis, MN December 2015 to May 2017 • Involved in creating dynamic web site design and programming the application using Angular-JS, HTML, Bootstrap, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed Angular services, controllers and created models for two-way data binding.  • Designed user Interface using Angular UI components such as tabs, grids, dropdowns etc and configured the routing service using Angular-JS router. Involved in developing Angular-JS directives to do reusable UI components.  • Implemented Angular form validations and used Bootstrap to show error, warning and info messages.  • Used Angular Resource and http services to retrieve the data from server and to display the content on the browser and took part in creating custom reusable components.  • Involved in creating a custom grid directive, which used JQuery slick grid for handling large data.  • Developed web services using Spring framework and REST and exposed the data to the UI in JSON format.  • Worked on Hibernate to connect and retrieve the data from SQL Server database. Configured with Spring to get properties dynamically and connected with SQL Server database.  • Used Apache Tomcat application server for application deployment and used NPM for JavaScript packaging.  • Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation within the forms.  • Used Spring declarative transaction management to manage transactions in the application.  • Used Maven build tool to build and deploy the application and Jenkins for continuous integration.  • Used Maven build tool to build and deploy the application and Jenkins for continuous integration.  • Worked on POC for Order Processing Integration using AWS services-Lambda functions, Step functions, S3 bucket, EC2 and DynamoDb.  • Installed application on AWS EC2 instances and also configured the storage on S3 buckets  • Used Splunk for logging, analyzing, monitoring of data.  Environment: Java, J2EE, JDK 1.8, Angular-JS, Spring, SOAP/Rest, web services, NPM, JavaScript, AWS, Angular6, Angular7 UML, HTML, CSS, BootStrap, RAD 7, JMS, AJAX, JQuery, SQL, Cucumber, JUnit, Maven, GIT, SVN, SPLUNK, Oracle 10g. Java Developer Charter Global INC - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2011 to November 2015 Coding of activity module and remainders module.  ? Extensive experience building single page applications (SPA) using AngularJS with expertise in creating User Controls, Web Forms and client side validations using JavaScript, jQuery and AngularJS.  ? Used Node Package Manager (NPM) to manage the modules and used it to install useful tools.  ? Involved in the conversion of tree data into the HTML and viewing in the special frame. Involved in the process of analysis, design, and development of the application.  ? Developed user interface using JSP, Struts and Java Script to simplify the complexities of the application.  ? The entire application was developed in J2EE using an MVC based architecture with help of Apache Struts.  ? Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several Java/J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate, MVC, Singleton, Data Transfer Object (DTO) and Service Locator  ? Used JavaScript for client-side validations, and AJAX to create interactive front-end GUI.  ? Used Form Based Authentication.  ? Used Web logic as the application server for deployment.  ? Involved in writing stored procedures, complex queries using SQL to process the data on Oracle DB.  ? Implemented Log4J for Logging Errors, debugging and tracking.  ? Developed JSP Custom tags which are required for the presentation layer.  ? Developed the application using Eclipse IDE.  ? Created Tables, Views and Indexes on the Database, Roles and maintained Database Users.  ? Involved in developing database modeling and database schema.  ? Developed Unit test scripts for every module in the application.  ? Tested existing web services using SOAP UI.  ? Worked on Java scripting in developing front end.  ? Administered Oracle database and SVN repository.  ? Client side installation and configuration of project.  ? Developed using simple Struts Validation for validation of user input as per the business logic and initial data loading.  ? Writing stored procedures, Packages, Views, Cursors, Functions and triggers using SQL in the back end.  ? Created and implemented Oracle Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers and complex queries using SQL.  ? Implementing business logic and data base connectivity.  ? Developed UI modules using HTML, JSP, JavaScript and CSS.  ? Using SQL and writing queries performed backend testing of GUI application mainly to confirm correctness of data entered and data manipulation.  ? Used JIRA to log, track and report defects.    Environment: Java 1.3, JDBC, Swings, Servlets, Win CVS, SQL-Server, WebLogic, JavaScript, HTML, J2EE, JSP, CSS, DHTML, EJB, JSP Custom Tags, JavaScript, Eclipse, UML, JDBC, Apache Tomcat, Oracle, Junit Education Bachelor's Skills Visual studio, CSS (8 years), Java, Html (8 years), Javascript (8 years), Bootstrap, Redux, Webpack, Jenkins, Json (8 years), Orm, Eclipse, Java, Hibernate, Java technologies, Spring, Spring Boot, jquery (8 years), Ajax, Svn Additional Information TECHNICAL EXPERTISE  Java Technologies Java,Spring Boot, Spring, Hibernate, JDBC, Apache Maven,  Frameworks Spring,Hibernate  Front End Technologies  HTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, Angular2.x/4.x, Angular6, Angular7 AJAX, JSON, Bootstrap, jQuery, React JS, Redux, Backbone JS, Handlebar JS, Node JS and Express JS.    Database Mysql,Oracle,  IDEs Eclipse, Net Beans, IBM RAD, JBuilder, WebStorm, Intelli J.  Servers Websphere, Tomcat, GlassFish. , IIS  ORM Framework Hibernate, TopLink, OpenJPA, iBatis  Version Control GIT, SVN.  Continuous Integration Jenkins, Bamboo  Build Tools Ant, Maven, Gradle, Jenkins, Bamboo Gulp, Grunt, Webpack, NPM and Bower  Code review Tools Eclipse, Visual Studio, Xcode, Maven, WordPress, SquareSpace, WorkBench, GitHub,sonar  Issue Tracker System HP Quality Center, JIRA, Rally  Testing Framework Junit,selenium, Rest Assured, cucumber, spring test, DBunit,Robot  Operating System Windows, Linux, Mac OS,LINUX,UNIX