Java Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Full Stack Developer - American Tower Corporation Boston, MA ? 8+ Years of IT experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as Planning, Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance of Web Based, Client-Server and N-tier Architectures  ? Extensive experience of designing and developing software applications with Java, J2EE, EJB, JSP, JSF, Servlets, Java Beans, ORM, Web Services, JDBC, XML, CSS, SOAP, REST.  ? Strong experience with frontend technologies like HTML5, CSS3, Scripting languages like JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Angular JS, Angular2/4, NodeJS, BackboneJS and good knowledge in ReactJS, EmberJS.  ? Proficient in Java/J2EE Design Patterns including Singleton Factory, Model View Controller (MVC), Data Access Object (DAO) and Business Delegate. Well versed with core Java concepts like collections, multithreading, serialization, Java beans.  ? Responsible for designing Presentation Tier (web pages) using the concepts such as Themes, Skins, HTML, XML, CSS, Java Script and JQuery using AJAX.  ? Extensive experience in design and architecture of J2EE based large applications and good working experience in using different modules like Spring Core Container Module, Spring Application Context Module, Spring MVC Framework module, Spring AOP Module, Spring ORM Module, Spring Batch in Spring Framework.  ? Extensive experience in implementing MEAN Stack (MongoDB, ExpressJS, AngularJS, NodeJS) with RESTful stands  ? Experience in writing numerous test cases using JUnit framework. Expertise in developing dynamic web pages in HTML with AngularJS for UI and developed single page application by using AngularJS  ? Worked on IDE's such as Eclipse/MyEclipse and WSAD/RAD for developing, deploying and debugging the applications. Experience in developing applications using frameworks like Struts, Hibernate and Apache CXF.  ? Experience on MS-SQL 2008, MongoDB, Sybase, MySQL and expertize in managing MongoDB environment from availability, performance and scalability perspectives.  ? Proficient with development of RESTful Web Services using JAX-RS for exchange of JSON and XML representations. Expertise in developing dynamic web pages in HTML with AngularJS for User Interface and developed single page application by using AngularJS  ? Experience in Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) using Unified Modeling Language (UML) and Rational Unified Process (RUP) using Rational Rose, Enterprise Architect and MS Visio.  ? Experienced in using ANT and Log4j. Experience working with databases such as Oracle 8.x/9i/10g, MS-SQL Server 2008/2005, MySQL and using PL/SQL to write stored procedures and functions for different Data Models.  ? Worked on integrating internal security model into new projects with Spring Batch, Spring Microservices and SpringBoot.  ? Experience in AWS Cloud platform and its features which includes EC2, AMI, EBS, Cloud watch, AWS SQS and AWS S3.  ? Experienced in a fast paced Agile Development Environment including Test-Driven Development (TDD) and Scrum. Hands-on experience with Reporting Tool Crystal Reports to create reports in various formats and tuning the performance.  ? Experience in using Integration tools like Jenkins, Cruise control.  ? Designed and developed custom Mongo applications specific to clients' needs and proficiency in multiple databases like MongoDB, Cassandra, MySQL, ORACLE and MS SQL Server. Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, schema design.  ? Experience in Configuration Management, setting up company Version policies, build schedule using SVN, CVS and Git.  ? Expertise working on Application Servers and Web Servers like WebSphere 6.x/7.x, WebLogic 8.x/9.x/10.x, Apache Tomcat 5.x/6.x/7.x.  ? Experience in Build and deployment automation through tools like Jenkins, Bamboo for CD/CI.  ? Extensive experience in Database Development using SQL, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, Functions, SQL Developer & TOAD, Triggers and SQL Server Management Studio  ? Good experience in log4J implementation for persist the data into log files and experience with Ant and Maven for the build and deployment of applications  ? Experience in developing test cases and test plans besides involving in Unit testing, Integration testing and User Acceptance testing extensively.  ? Highly self-motivated and goal oriented team player with strong analytical, debugging, problem solving skills. Diversified knowledge and ability to learn new technologies quickly. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Full Stack Developer American Tower Corporation - Boston, MA July 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Involved in programming, testing, debugging, implementing and maintaining of Java EE client/server distributed application to meet the organization's needs.  ? Architected, designed and implemented a SPA (Single Page Application) in AngularJS which consume JSON from a Spring MVC, using Spring Security to secure the Application  ? Implemented nested views and routing using AngularUI Router as per the requirement. GUI was developed using JSP, HTML, and AngularJS and created reusable components in AngularJS using Custom Directives Filters, Services and Partials.  ? Expertise in developing application using Angular Js, React, Angular, Nodejs, Boot Strap, Django, Java script.  ? Implemented the presentation layer for front-end of the application with the help of Angular JS, Node JS and boot strap programming and XHTML pages.  ? Exposed Stateless session beans as RESTful web services using JAX-RS. Implemented Angular promises to handle asynchronous communication with our Rest API for various requirements.  ? Developed pages using AngularJS directives, expressions, routing capabilities for bookmarking, filters, validations and AngularUI components such as grid, buttons, carousels, date pickers, modal dialogs and other input components.  ? Defined new validations through AngularJS for the form field validation implemented through HTML5.  ? Mainly involved in development and maintenance of the website using HTML5, CSS, Ajax, jQuery, JavaScript, AngularJS and Node.js.  ? Involved in the preparation of use case, sequence diagrams, class diagrams, activity diagrams etc. using Rational Rose. Involved in developing reusable core libraries using core java Classes and Interfaces.  ? Successfully identified the performance bottlenecks and improved the performance by parameter HQL Query Tuning as well as Application Tuning.  ? Developed existing network mapping microservices using python nmap and deployed it on kubernetes  ? Build Rest services using NodeJS and ExpressJS and used a full complement of Express, AngularJS, NodeJs, and MongoDB to store and present assessments  ? Developed different reports in JavaScript by implementing the AngularJS SPA framework and common packages for the application using Generics.  ? Extensively used Java concurrency features like ThreadPool executor, Future and Callable to parallel process the securities.  Configured Java Messaging Services (JMS) on WebSphere Server using Eclipse IDE.  ? Developed queues using AWS SQS with JMS for services to subscribe and listen events. Implemented logic to listen and to subscribe events.  ? Used ExpressJS to route different endpoints, made RESTful services to manipulate data in MySQL.  ? Developed a feature in utility application and Verification Monitoring tool to verify the application statistics like pollers, consumers, loggers using AngularJS, Node.js and Bootstrap.  ? Familiar with MongoDB write concern to avoid loss of data during system failures and implemented read preferences in MongoDB replica set.  ? Involved in writing queries, stored procedures and modifications to existing database structure as required per addition of new features.  ? Configured Docker containers and Kubernates to manage dozens of micro services.  ? Created ant build files to create the EAR and WAR files and involved in development of CPRS system using the Spring MVC framework. Involved in development of Hibernate objects in order to persist data into the database.  ? Design and Built Generic Playbooks to remotely configure the micro-services on kubernates and Used Kubernetes as the monitoring tool for health check of the servers.  ? Involved in writing SQL scripts and creating backend database table for complex business operations. Participated in building web-services using SOAP that allowed integrating the business application with the legacy applications and also facilitates for future applications.  ? Developed a production Node.js application with Express module and persisted user information in MongoDB using Mongoose ORM, Node JS to manage dependencies, and ExpressJS to quickly build a modular server code-base.  ? Microservices have been built using SpringBoot, Spring security and deployed to AWS cloud.  ? Worked on MongoDB concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, sharding, replication, schema design. Involved in configuring WebSphere servers, database connections and participated in back-end Database programming using Oracle and developed SQL Queries using Toad for SQL Server.  ? Used AngularJS Routing for navigation between nested HTML views in the application and created AngularJs custom directives that were used along with HTML elements for DOM manipulation.  ? Used Log4j API for logging in development, testing and production environments, configured to send email notifications.  ? Created Spring MVC components like Dispatch servlets, configure Request mapping annotation controllers, view resolver components and implemented transaction management using Spring declarative transaction management with Spring AOP concepts.  ? Develop Rest web application by SpringBoot and implemented single sign on by OAuth2.  ? Implemented version controlling using SVN and used Jenkins for continuous integration. Wrote build & deployment scripts using Ant, Maven on UNIX environment.  ? Used GIT for version control and used eclipse as the IDE for developing the application, Used Rational Clear Quest for defect fixing. Involved in guiding, mentoring new contractors to understand the application  ? Co-ordinated with QA lead for development of test plan, test cases, test code and actual testing responsible for defects allocation and resolution of those defects  Environment: Java 8, J2EE, JDK, HTML, CSS, Ajax, AngularUI, jQuery, ExpressJs, JavaScript, AngularJS, Python, Node.js, Bootstrap, Oracle, Spring, Hibernate, PL/SQL, AWS, Web Services (SOAP), JMS, RESTful, Multithreading, WebSphere, Apache, Maven. Full stack Developer Texas Instruments - Dallas, TX October 2015 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Designed application modules, base classes and utility classes using core java and implemented web services (WSDL) and effectively worked with SOAP, XML, XSLT.  ? Build this application using spring easy as a REST API server and BackboneJS as a single application. Built rich prototypes and applications using Backbone.js.  ? Designed User Interfaces using JSP, JQuery, CSS, HTML, Bootstrap, NodeJS, Less CSS and Lodash for front end view as per the requirements that are provided.  ? Used spring validation and wrote validation rules. Developing customer facing software for managing advertisements using BackboneJS.  ? Expertise in developing application using Angular Js, React, Angular, Nodejs, Boot Strap, Django, Java script.  ? JQuery library, BackboneJS has been used for creation of powerful dynamic Web Pages and web applications by using its advanced and cross browser functionality.  ? Designed dynamic web pages using JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and BackboneJs for single page applications. Developed customized directives which could be reused by all teams.  ? Developed a Human Resource Tracking Tool using NodeJS and Bootstrap as a value add to my Organization , this tool provides an ability to get all the statistics of the project resources real time.  ? Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in spring framework using Dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IOC) using annotations. Used BackboneJS to optimize in-browser use and to load the module and to improve the Speed.  ? Implemented Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using JMS for sending and receiving messages while creating web services  ? Worked on creating various types of indexes on different collections to get good performance in MongoDB and created documents in MongoDB.  ? Designed and developed RESTful web services to support JSON for other developers to access to speed up development using Spring Batch, Spring MVC, Spring Web Services, JSON, Log4J, RESTful, POSTGRESql and Maven.  ? Apache Mesos and Kubernetes were used as the best ecosystem to deploy and manage Microservices.  ? Implemented the application following the J2EE best practices and patterns like Singleton, Factory, Session Façade, Spring MVC and DAO. Used BackboneJs for Fetching Data from the Server by giving URL to get JSON data for model and to populate model from the server.  ? Migrated MongoDB systems from No-SSL authentication to SSL authentication using certificates and performed CRUD operations like Update, Insert and Delete data in MongoDB.  ? Developed business components using Java Objects and used Hibernate framework to map the Java classes to the database.  ? Used Backbone.js and ReactJS to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.  ? Used Hibernate, object/relational-mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with a SQL-based schema.  ? Developed Hibernate DAO classes and with the spring frame work manager classes retrieve and save the data from the database.  ? Worked on the modernization of a legacy and outsourced UI using Backbone.js, Require.js, and JQuery. Used JS framework such as BackboneJS for heavy DOM Manipulation.  ? Implemented Spring ORM with Hibernate taking advantage of Java features like annotation metadata, auto wiring, and generic collections.  ? Developed payment flow using AJAX partial page refresh, validation and dynamic drop down list. Implemented Maven Script to create JAR, WAR, EAR & dependency JARS and deploy the entire project onto the WebLogic Application Server  ? Developed microservices using springboot exposed as REST API and integrated with angularJS based web applications.  ? Developing scripts for build, deployment, maintenance and related tasks using Jenkins, Docker, and Maven.  ? Virtualized the servers on AWS using the Docker, created the Docker files and version control, built various containers using Docker engine and Docker Machine environments, to deploy the microservices oriented environments for scalable applications.  ? Utilize in-depth knowledge of functional and Technical experience in Java/J2EE and other leading-edge products and technology in conjunction with industry and business skills to deliver solutions to customer.  ? Implemented Log4j for logging purposes and debug the application. Prepared Junit test cases and executed the test cases using Junit in eclipse.  ? Involved in bug fixing during the System testing, Joint System testing and User acceptance testing.  Environment: J2EE, JSP, JavaScript, JDK 1.6, UML, Eclipse, Oracle, Microservices, React.JS, Springboot, WebLogic Application Server 10.3, UNIX, JSP 2.0, SOAP, SOA, Spring 3.0, Spring MVC, Hibernate, RESTful, XML, CSS, HTML, Junit 4.4, SVN, Log4j, MongoDB, BackboneJs, Oracle10g, Jenkins, UNIX, Ant 1.8, Maven. Java/J2EE Developer SuperValu - Minneapolis, MN June 2013 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in requirement analysis, component architecture design and sequence activity diagrams for the necessary Service Components.  ? Played an active role in development as part of which developed JSP, Servlets and EJB and gathered information from Architect and Business Analysts to design Functional Specifications.  ? Performed Requirement Gathering & Analysis by actively soliciting, analyzing and negotiating customer requirements and prepared the requirements specification document for the application using Microsoft Word.  ? Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using AJAX, JavaScript, and ReactJS.  ? Developed use case diagrams, business flow diagrams, activity/state diagrams and adopted J2EE design patterns like Service Locator, Session Facade and Singleton.  ? Developed advanced JavaScript modules such as capture visitor information, browser version, button animation, and timing object. Extensively used JSTL tag libraries. Used JSF Frame Work for front- end design  ? Involved in meetings handled by Architect to review the Design Documents of the Project. Designed and developed Servlets to communicate between presentation and business layer.  ? Developed Persistence Framework consisting of components like Persistence Code Generator, Persistence Manager and Data Access Objects which hides JPA complexities and offers transparent access to database.  ? Experience in shell scripting and Python in Unix/Linux environment.  ? Involved in using React JS components, Forms, keys, Events, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  ? Configured faces-config.xml and applicationcontext.xml for JSF and Spring AOP Integration and developed GUI policy forms implementing JSF-lifecycle.  ? Involved in developing business components using EJB Session Beans and persistence using EJB Entity Beans.  ? Used Spring Cloud AWS Core, Spring Cloud AWS Context, and Spring Cloud AWS Messaging.  ? Utilized AWS Lambda platform to upload data into AWS S3 buckets and to trigger other Lambda Functions Including EC2, MongoDB focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling.  ? Developed test harness to test the web services which helps test teams to test web service components independently using various request and response xml.  ? Followed Spring MVC Framework for the development of the project and used Spring Security to provide authentication, authorization, and access-control features for this application.  ? Use of Agile Methodology for development and involved in development RESTful Web Services.  ? Implemented MVC Architecture, integrating JSF with spring framework. Involved in design and development of JSF Modal Dialog boxes. Java/J2EE Developer Hibu - Cedar Rapids, IA November 2011 to May 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Designed and developed user interface using front-end technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX.  ? Designed the application architecture of the System based on MVC (Model View Controller), Struts Framework and J2EE specifications.  ? Developed Struts validators, services and dao's for backend interactions and operations and used Struts Controller component and integrates with other technologies to provide the Model and the View for the Model.  ? Developed web application using Struts framework using MVC and written client validations using Struts Validation frame work.  ? Integrated the Spring with Struts to achieve the more reliability in web development and worked heavily with the Struts tags- used struts as the front controller to the web application.  ? Created Web.xml, Struts-config.xml, Validation.xml files to integrate all the components in the Struts framework.  ? Developed application using Spring MVC, JSP, JSTL and AJAX on the presentation layer, the business layer is built using spring.  ? Implemented Cross cutting concerns like logging and declarative transaction management using Spring AOP.  ? Developing or maintaining a production-level cloud-based architecture in AWS, including creating machine Images like AMI.  ? Model is a combination of EJB and Java classes and web implementation controllers are Servlets and developed Message Driven Beans for Messaging communication in our application using EJB.  ? Used EJB 3.0 Session beans using JBOSS Seam Context Management (Application, Conversation, Session scopes) and implemented Business processes such as user authentication, Transfer of Service using Session EJBs  ? Involved in developing & exposing web services and also consumption of Web Services like RESTFUL Web services.  ? Used MAVEN for project management and build automation. Used Subversion as a version control for implementing the application.  ? Wrote Junit classes for the services and prepared documentation and configured logging in the application using log4j api.  ? Used CVS for version control across common source code used by developers and deployed the applications on WebLogic Application Server.  ? Eclipse is used for development as IDE and used JUnit for unit testing and repeatable tests for the application.  Environment: Java 1.5, HTML, CSS, Struts MVC, Maven, Spring, EJB, WebLogic, XML, JavaScript, Soap, Oracle, HTML, SVN, JUnit, RAD, LDAP, Apache Commons Libraries, Eclipse, Web Sphere Application Server. Java Developer GS Technologies August 2010 to October 2011 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in various SDLC phases like Design, Development and Testing. Interact with business managers to transform requirements into technical solutions.  ? Designed the application using the J2EE design patterns such as Session Façade, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Value Object and Singleton.  ? Configured Spring to manage Actions as beans and set their dependencies in a Spring context file. Developed presentation tier as HTML, JSPs using Struts 1.1 Framework. Used AJAX for faster page rendering.  ? Developed General Ledger module, which streamlines analysis, reporting and recording of accounting information. General Ledger automatically integrates with a powerful spreadsheet solution for budgeting, comparative analysis and tracking facility information for flexible reporting.  ? Developed client-facing Struts web applications by creating and modifying Java classes, JSPs, Struts Delegates and DAOs, AJAX.  ? Implemented the MVC architecture using Struts framework. Developed various Action Classes that route requests to appropriate handlers, Coded Struts Action Servlets to process requests and forward to Struts Action classes.  ? Developed JSP and Java Helper classes for In-patient and out-patient Information. Wrote Actionclasses, Request Processor, Business Delegate, BusinessObjects, ServiceClasses and JSP pages.  ? Application integration with Spring Web Services to fetch data from external Benefits application using SOA architecture, configuring WSDL based on SOAP specifications and marshalling and un-marshalling using JAXB  ? Developed web pages using Servlets and XML for various modules and involved in environment set up with Ant, Eclipse, JBoss and SQL Server 2005.  ? Used Oracle as the backend database and wrote PL/SQL packages, stored procedures, views and functions at the Oracle database.  ? Designed generic database Connection Pooling with JDBC using Oracle and involved in the SQL query optimization. Developed the components for parsing XML documents using SAX and DOM parsers.  ? Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in spring framework and used Spring MVC to implement the Model View Controller pattern. Used Spring IoC to inject data into Java beans.  ? Developed project in Eclipse IDE and created DB interactions using Hibernate. Provided management with technical documentation for Java applications using MS Visio and MS Word.  ? Worked on JDBC for data persistence and prepared high and low level design documents for the business modules for future references and updates. Deployed the application in JBoss Application Server in development and production environment.  ? Implemented CVS as Version control system and used Maven as a build and dependency management tool to manage various dependencies.  ? Used ANT as build tool and Junit for writing Unit tests.  ? Involved in the functional test of the application and tested Java applications using Functional Testing, JBoss and log statements. Code Walkthrough/ Test cases and Test Plans.  Environment: CoreJava, J2EE, JSP, Struts, Servlets, Spring, Hibernate, JDBC, Oracle 8i, AJAX, XML, ANT, Junit, CVS, Maven and JBoss Application Server. Education Bachelor's Skills Ajax (8 years), Apache (5 years), AWS (7 years), CSS (5 years), Eclipse (6 years), HTML (6 years), J2EE (8 years), Java (8 years), Java script. (7 years), jQuery (5 years), JSP (8 years), Maven (6 years), MongoDB (5 years), Oracle (6 years), servlets (6 years), SOAP (6 years), Subversion (5 years), UNIX (5 years), version control (6 years), web services (8 years)