Sr. Java Developer Sr.<span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Best Buy Hopkins, MN * Overall 8+ years of strong experience in complete software development life cycle including requirement gathering, analysis, design, development, writing technical/system specifications, interface development and implementation of client/Server, distributed applications using Object Oriented Methodologies and NoSQL Database.  * Proficient in using Web technologies like JSP, JavaScript/jQuery, CoffeeScript, Angular, CSS, HTML, XML.  * Expertise in implementing application using Spring MVC and Spring Integration Frameworks, Rest API, Ruby/Rails Framework, Angular, ReactiveX, Spock Testing framework.  * Worked in Agile Development and Test-Driven Development for 2 years.  * Experience in unit testing the application using Spock, JUnit and in Test Driven Development (TDD).  * Extensive experience in programming, deploying, configuring and administering middle-tier J2EE Application Servers like IBM WebSphere and Web Server like Apache Tomcat, Jetty  * My greatest strengths are: Flexible team player, eager to meet challenges, quickly assimilates new concepts, self-motivated, energetic performer with positive attitude and creative.  * Excellent analytical and problem-solving ability.  * Excellent Technical skills; Subject-matter expert.  * Feasibility study, quality management, communication, testing, documentation and training.    * Expertise in using various IDE Tools like Eclipse Luna/Mars, RSA, RAD, GGTS, intellij IDEA  * Effectively prioritized and handled multiple complex projects simultaneously.  * In-house and Off-shore team handling. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Best Buy - Richfield, MN July 2018 to Present USA  Responsibilities: Worked as Agile java developer where we work on a two-week sprint. System Analysis, Finalize Requirements, Estimation and Planning, Construction and Unit Testing, Design Presentation, Co-ordinate / Provide Testing Support, Quality Assurance, Defect Root cause analysis, Defect Fix and Testing, Performance Testing, Implementation, Team Management, Training and Customer Communication  Technologies: Java/J2EE, Spring, Rest API, Angular, ReactiveX, JUnit, cucumber, Cassandra DB, Oracle DB.  Tools: Jenkins, , Docker, intellij IDEA, Eclipse, Postman  * Project: Service Delivery Platform (SDP) provides Best Buy the capability to quickly configure, order and activate both subscription and non-subscription software, movies, POSA Cards, Digital and Gaming products through in-store as well as online channels. These functionalities are performed by orchestrating with internal and external partners with immediate code redemption and email delivery fulfillment. The products sold under this capability include software subscriptions, physical software subscriptions, tech support plans, Geek Squad plans, Apple Care plans, digital product activation and digital subscriptions. Apart from being an activation engine for software, digital products, subscription software & Tech Support SDP provides a large suite of core feature/functionality which aids in business & operational processes and research.  Responsibilities -  * Participated in requirement gathering sessions/discussions. Validate business requirements/ functional  * Implemented Rest API with Spring.  * Developed microservice for fulfilling digital products.  * Developed User Interface using Angular framework.  * Designed, developed, tested, integrated, and deployed large numbers of complex rules in rule flows using Drools.  * Used Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exception and for logging info and are helpful in debugging the issues.  * Used Agile practices and Test-Driven Development techniques to provide reliable, working software early and often  * Prepare / review Implementation plan. Perform Implementation and monitoring. Provide User Acceptance Test and Production test support.  * Involved in multiple high priority releases with aggressive deadlines Sr. Java Developer Best Buy - Chennai, Tamil Nadu June 2016 to July 2018 TN, India  Responsibilities: Worked as Agile java developer where we work on a two-week sprint. System Analysis, Finalize Requirements, Estimation and Planning, Construction and Unit Testing, Design Presentation, Co-ordinate / Provide Testing Support, Quality Assurance, Defect Root cause analysis, Defect Fix and Testing, Performance Testing, Implementation, Team Management, Training and Customer Communication  Technologies: Java/J2EE, Spring Integration, Rest API, Ruby on Rails, SPOCK testing framework, Cassandra DB, Mongo DB, Oracle DB, RabbitMQ.  Tools: Jenkins, Chef, Vagrant, Docker, intellij IDEA, Eclipse, Jetty, Postman  * Project: Product Content Management is a part of Enterprise content management solutions within BestBuy. It offers an end-to-end platform to aggregate product-related data from content providers, validate them against pre-configured rules and publish them to dot com and product metadata users.  Responsibilities -  * Participated in requirement gathering sessions/discussions. Validate business requirements/ functional  * Implemented Rest API with Spring MVC framework.  * Used Spring integration to communicate between microservices.  * Developed User Interface using Ruby on rails framework.  * Implemented distributing data architectures using NOSQL technologies such as data distribution networks to deliver data into the data storage layer and API components for Client. Worked and familiar with Mongo DB, Cassandra  * Designed, developed, tested, integrated, and deployed large numbers of complex rules in rule flows using Drools.  * Used Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exception and for logging info and are helpful in debugging the issues.  * Used Agile practices and Test-Driven Development techniques to provide reliable, working software early and often  * Prepare / review Implementation plan. Perform Implementation and monitoring. Provide User Acceptance Test and Production test support.  * Involved in multiple high priority releases with aggressive deadlines Java Developer Target Corp - Minneapolis, MN January 2015 to May 2016 USA  Responsibilities: System Analysis, Finalize Requirements, Estimation and Planning, High Level Design, Low Level Design, Construction and Unit Testing, Design Presentation, Co-ordinate / Provide Testing Support, Quality Assurance, Defect Root cause analysis, Defect Fix and Testing, Performance Testing, Implementation.  Technologies: Java/J2EE, Spring Framework 3.0, Rest API, JSP, HTML, jQuery, CSS, iBatis, MS SQL, SPOCK testing framework.  Tools: RSA 7.5, TFS, PMD, SONAR, MS SQL server 2012, WebSphere.  Software/Products: HP Quality Center, MS Office, MS Visio, ServiceNow.  * Project: Upstream Distribution Center is an inventory positioning study led by Merchandising and Distribution. The objective is to purchase smaller quantities of slow-selling, volatile merchandise and hold it further upstream in the supply chain. Project Goals: Improved Profitability, Supply Chain Segmentation and Position Target to be More Competitive. Worked for Waving module were distribution user can create wave for store orders and assign the same for packing.  My Responsibilities -  * Participate in requirement gathering sessions/discussions. Validate business requirements/ functional specifications. Prepare / review development estimates, project plan, system design, code, unit testing and test results. Present design documents to customer.  * Developed 8 new screens in Java/J2EE, Spring MVC framework for waving applications in distribution area.  * Perform root cause analysis on defects.  * Prepare / review Implementation plan. Perform Implementation and monitoring. Provide User Acceptance Test and Production test support.  * Prepare and share regular status updates, project execution report with the customer.  * Visited distribution centers and trained users how to use the application.  * Trained my team members to take up next level role and responsibilities. Java Developer Bank Of America - Chennai, Tamil Nadu June 2014 to December 2014 Work Location: Chennai, TN, India  Responsibilities: System Analysis, Finalize Requirements, High Level Design, Low Level Design, Construction and Unit Testing, Co-ordinate / Provide Testing Support, Quality Assurance, Defect Root cause analysis, Defect Fix and Testing  Technologies: Java, Spring Framework 3.0, Hibernate, Rest API, SOAP Web service, Tools: RSA 7.5, TFS, PMD, SONAR, PLSQL, WebSphere, Soap UI.  Software/Products: HP Quality Center, MS Office, MS Visio, ServiceNow.  * Project: WebSphere Customer center(WCC) is the core Customer hub for consumer leveraging the IBM MDM product for customer Data Integration. WCC is System of record for Customer Profile and Customer to Account linkages. The high significance of WCC lies on the fact that only WCC gives a single enterprise view of all the customer data and almost all the customer transactions pass through WCC with the help of various API's.  My Responsibilities -  * Participate in requirement gathering sessions/discussions. Validate business requirements/ functional specifications. Prepare project plan, system design, code, unit testing and test results. Present design documents to customer.  * Developed API's in Java (Both REST and Soap) to support/customize the WCC functions as per business requirement.  * Perform root cause analysis on defects.  * Prepare / review Implementation plan. Perform Implementation and monitoring. Provide User Acceptance Test and Production test support.  * Prepare and share regular status updates, project execution report with the customer. Java Developer Bank Of America - Chennai, Tamil Nadu February 2013 to June 2014 Work Location: Chennai, TN, India  Responsibilities: System Analysis, Finalize Requirements, High Level Design, Low Level Design, Construction and Unit Testing, Co-ordinate / Provide Testing Support, Quality Assurance, Defect Root cause analysis, Defect Fix and Testing  Technologies: Java/J2EE, JavaScript, HTML, jQuery  Tools: Eclipse, Tomcat Server, TFS, Apache Solr.  Software/Products: HP Quality Center, MS Office.  * Project: World Bank has a dedicated Search Application called Enterprise Search. Apache SOLR acts as the Database Index at the Back-end for this application. Search Project in World Bank involves development, maintenance and support of Enterprise Search applications including Intranet Search, External Search. Indexing the sensitive documents.  My Responsibilities -  * Participate in requirement gathering sessions/discussions. Validate business requirements/ functional specifications. Prepare project plan, system design, code, unit testing and test results. Present design documents to customer.  * Developed API's to index the data from Oracle Database, Categorizing the documents using SAS and loading the same to Apache Solr.  * Perform root cause analysis on defects.  * Prepare / review Implementation plan. Perform Implementation and monitoring. Provide User Acceptance Test and Production test support.  * Prepare and share regular status updates, project execution report with the customer. CenturyLink, Java Developer Bank Of America - Chennai, Tamil Nadu June 2011 to January 2013 TN, India  Responsibilities: System Analysis, Construction and Unit Testing, Co-ordinate / Provide Testing Support, Quality Assurance, Defect Root cause analysis, Defect Fix and Testing.  Technologies: Java/J2EE, structs, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS, HTML, jQuery, SQL.  Tools: Eclipse, Tomcat Server, Serena Dimensions, SQL Developer.  Software/Products: HP Quality Center, MS Office.  * Project: The Integrated Ordering Tool (IOT) provides CenturyLink customers the ability to order products and services from CenturyLink over the Internet. IOT is a complete ordering tool which starts form log in page to order summary page. Interact pricing, ordering and many other applications.  My Responsibilities -  * Developed/maintained web pages where user can order internet products and services.  * Perform root cause analysis on defects.  * Prepare / review Implementation plan. Perform Implementation and monitoring. Provide User Acceptance Test and Production test support. Education Bachelor of Technology in Electronics and Communication Engineering LBS College of Engineering July 2005 to May 2009 Skills Eclipse, Java, Intellij idea, Spring, Mvc, Sdlc, Api, Application server, Docker, Git, Jenkins, Json, Ruby, Rails, Scripting, Svn, Jira, Rest, Database, Db2, Javascript, HTML, Jquery, Angularjs, Java J2Ee