Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java/J2EE Developer - SEI INVESTMENTS Philadelphia, PA ? Highly motivated software professional with 8+ years of experience in Design, Development, Testing and Implementation of various desktop and web-based applications using Java, J2EE technologies.  ? Experience in Software Development Life Cycle - SDLC (Analysis, Design, Development and Testing), requirement gathering, client interaction and understanding.  ? Extensive experience in Object Oriented Analysis in developing server side and front-end framework using J2EE design patterns.  ? Strong expertise in Core Java programming using Design Patterns, Collections and Multi-Threaded programming.  ? Well versed with consuming and publishing Web services as SOA Architecture based SOAP, WSDL UDDI Components and REST working with data-exchange formats like XML and JSON formats.  ? Proficient in XML technologies like XSL/XSLT, SAX, DOM, DTD, XSD, JAXB, JAXP, Apache Axis  ? Experience on different IDEs such as RAD, Eclipse, Spring Tool Suite[STS], IntelliJ and deployment using Application Servers like BEA Web Logic, JBOSS, IBM Web Sphere and Apache Tomcat  ? Hands-on experience working with Continuous Integration (CI) build-automation tools such as Maven, Jenkins and Apache Ant  ? Experience in J2EE Testing in developing test cases with JUnit for Unit testing, and logging using Log4j.  ? Effective team player with excellent communication skills and insight to determine priorities, schedule work and meet critical deadlines.  ? Research-oriented, motivated, proactive, self-starter with strong technical, analytical and interpersonal skills.  ? Hands on experience working with TDD methods within Agile environment and continuous delivery, pair programming with developers, regularly involved in estimation and planning.  ? Proficiency in implementing Multi-threaded applications and in using design patterns like Factory Method, Abstract Factory, and Singleton.  ? Worked extensively in Model View Controller (MVC) architecture for web development using JSF, Struts and Spring MVC, JSP, JavaBeans and Servlets.  ? Expertise in client scripting languages and server scripting languages like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, JSP, Node JS.  ? Hands on experience in Micro services.  ? Developed Micro Services with the help of JHipster and Spring Boot.  ? Expertise in front end development and design using Servlets, Struts, Ajax, bootstrap and JUNIT.  ? Extensively used Node.js to optimize our application's Throughput and Scalability.  ? Well exposed to Hibernate and spring and thorough knowledge on Hibernate configuration file.  ? Handled Java Multi-Threading part in back-end component, one thread will be running for each user, which serves that user.  ? Used Hibernate and JDBC to connect to databases like Oracle, MYSQL and PL/SQL to store, delete, manipulate and retrieved data from them in many of my applications.  ? Proficiency in multiple databases like MongoDB, MySQL, ORACLE and MS SQL Server. Work Experience Sr. Java/J2EE Developer SEI INVESTMENTS - Malvern, PA April 2018 to Present Description: SEI Investments is a financial services company with its operations across the global. SEI provides products and services to institutions, private banks, investment advisors, investment managers, and private clients. Our team designed and enhances App Admin application used by all our partners, brokers and stakeholders. This is an important application which drives most of revenue generating business for the firm.  Responsibilities:  ? Used Micro service architecture with Spring Boot based services interacting through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka message brokers.  ? Worked on Creating Kafka topics, partitions, writing custom partitioned classes.  ? Involved in developing of presentation layer for the application modules using HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, AJAX and Angular 2.  ? Code staging in GitHub and building in Jenkins for release night regressions.  ? Working with Agile Technologies, analyzing user requirements; envisioning system features and functionality.  ? Attended regular AGILE/SCRUM, meetings/ retrospective and story pointer-based iteration meetings.  ? Utilized Java 8 features like Lambda expressions and Stream API for Bulk data operations on Collections that would increase the performance of the Application.  ? Managed Declarative Transactions using Spring AOP and also integrated Spring with REST.  ? Involved in transforming XML data into Java Objects using a JAXB binding tool.  ? Used GIT as source control management giving a huge speed advantage on centralized systems that have to communicate with a server.  ? Implemented CI/CD pipelines with Jenkins to setup pull request, pre-prod and prod deployment workflows with regression test suites  ? Implemented the Project structure based on Spring MVC pattern using spring boot.  ? Written client interfaces and implementation classes to consume the web services.  ? Used JSON parsing to implement REST Web Services.  ? Worked with Swagger UI to extensively test new changes  ? Developed the project using industry standard design patterns like Singleton, Business Delegate Factory Pattern for better maintenance of code and re-usability.  ? Manipulated data using CRUD (create, read, update and delete) operations of database management system and handled database access and data transmission based on RESTful web service.  ? Proficient in SQL, PL/SQL Stored procedures, Functions, triggers to interact with Oracle 11g.  ? Developed application using JMS for sending and receiving Point-to-Point JMS Queue messages.  ? Implemented various features for file upload/download, excel report export, streaming large allowance reports.  ? Implemented JMS messaging process to send/receive messages to/from various app components with JMS Templates, Message Listener.  ? Used Log4J API for logging and debugging.  ? Worked on migration from Angular 4 to angular 6.  Environment: Java, J2EE, JUnit, JMS, Kafka, Jenkins, Source tree, Micro Services, JHipster, Spring MVC framework, Hibernate, Spring4x, XML, UNIX, JSP, HTML, Jar, Database, Maven, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, Log4J, DB2, MVC, Spring MVC annotations, Spring AOP (Aspect-Oriented Programming), Spring Boot, Spring security,Oracle12c, Oracle, Agile, JSP, AJAX JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, GIT, JIRA, Swagger, PL/SQL, JAR, STS (spring tool suite), eclipse, Apache server, JBOSS Application Server. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer CENTENE CORPORATION - St. Louis, MO April 2017 to April 2018 Description: A health insurance company that improves the customer's well-being, productivity and health by providing them with benefits, service and expertise. In this project we develop a real-time, fully automated claims processing system for online mediation of disability, medical, vision and dental claims. The timely and efficient management of all the data related to clinical, administrative and finances throughout the organization is done by the application which in turn enables the information sharing between subsystems.  Responsibilities:  ? Followed Agile Methodology to analyze, define, and document the application which will support functional and business requirements.  ? Actively participated in the daily scrum meetings to produce quality deliverables within time information and helped clearing ambiguity in requirements document.  ? Followed Spring MVC framework for the development of the project.  ? Used Spring framework including Spring core /IOC, Spring Web-MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Security, Spring ORM, Spring AOP modules.  ? Create RFP (Request for Proposal) micro service to provide RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  ? Build REST/SOAP based Services for all user-based operations like enroll user, modifying user and authenticate user depending on risk factor of the user login.  ? Developed and consumed REST based Web services to allow communication between the applications.  ? Designed and developed business and persistence layer components using Spring IOC and Hibernate and Spring JDBC framework.  ? Used Hibernate in persistence layer and developed POJO's, Data Access Object (DAO) to handle all database operations.  ? Used Hibernate as ORM tool for data persistence and retrieval of data like information of current customer enrollment etc.  ? Wrote complex SQL queries, Stored Procedures PL/SQL using SQL developer & TOAD, executed on Oracle Database.  ? Maintained SVN repositories for DevOps environment automation code and configuration.  ? Used Maven automated build scripts to compile and package the application and implemented Log4j for the project.  ? Log4j framework has been used for logging debug, info & error data.  ? Set up Jenkins server and build jobs to provide continuous automated builds based on polling the Git source control system during the day and periodic scheduled builds overnight to support development needs using Jenkins, Git, JUnit and Maven.  ? Deployed the application on to Apache Tomcat Server.  ? Written JUnit Test cases using Mockito framework.  ? Used Git for version control tool and Spring Tool Suite (STS) for IDE.  ? Used JIRA as a defect tracking system for all projects.  ? Performed the technical design reviews and code reviews.  ? Developed Micro Services with the help of Spring Boot and JHipster.  ? Designed and Developed advance dynamic views using JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and Angular JS.  ? Used Angular JS and jQuery library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application.  ? Written Angular factories and Services with JSON objects response of the Spring REST API.  ? Created the Spring MVC controllers to handle/route the user requests.  ? Involved in setting up spring security in securing the app based on user roles.  ? Used Spring IOC (inversion of control) to remove the object dependencies across the application.  ? Implemented the Spring-Security and Transaction Management (Spring-TX) in the Application.  ? Implemented the application using Spring Boot Framework and handled the security using Spring Security.  Environment: Java, Hibernate, Spring4x, XML, UNIX, JSP, DB2, MVC, J2EE, JUnit, HTML, Jar, Database, Maven, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, Log4J, Jenkins, Source tree, Micro Services, JHipster, Spring MVC framework, Spring MVC annotations, Spring AOP (Aspect-Oriented Programming), Spring Boot, Spring security,Oracle12c, Oracle, Agile, JSP, AJAX JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, GIT, JIRA, Swagger, PL/SQL, JAR, STS (spring tool suite), eclipse, Apache server, JBOSS Application Server. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer J.P. Morgan Chase - Wilmington, DE April 2015 to April 2017 Description: Relationship Management System is a real time application that creates, processes, tracks and monitor files and reports to support various partners and vendors. My role is to  enhance the existing old technology with latest technology.    Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for discussing and understanding the requirements received from the client and preparing design document with approach details for the implementation of the enhancement.  ? Followed Agile Methodology to emphasize on real time communication over written documentation.  ? Interacted with Business Analysts to come up with better implementation designs for the application.  ? Integrated spring (Dependency Injection) among different layers of an application.  ? Developed Web services to allow communication between applications through RESTFUL Web service.  ? Used Spring MVC framework controllers for Controllers part of the MVC.  ? Created rich client using Ajax to pull the data from database.  ? Developed User- Interface screens involving Servlets, JSP, and JavaScript, AngularJS and XML DOM parser.  ? Implemented various Java design patterns like Front Controller, Service Locator, Business Delegate, and Data Access Object, Factory Pattern etc.  ? Used J Profiler and Java Performance Analysis Tool for performance tuning and optimization.  ? Implemented Hibernate for data persistence in Workflow screens.  ? Developed web logs functionality to track the number of hits for the Webpages using Angular JS, Schedulers and Spring Batch.  ? Implemented JDBC for Non-workflow screens, Alerts and batches.  ? Involved in development of Agent Verification System using Spring MVC/BOOT framework.  ? Used Spring AOP for logging, auditing and transaction management to distinguish business logic from the cross-cutting concerns.  ? Used Spring Security for Authentication and Authorization of the application.  ? Created data model and generated Hibernate mappings and domain objects using Hibernate tools.  ? Implemented Java Persistence API (JPA) through Hibernate.  ? Worked with WebLogic, Tomcat as the application servers and JMS as the message Server.  ? Performed Clear Quest defects, Database change requests logging using Clear Quest.  ? Used Maven Cruise-Control for project builds.  ? Used SQL Developer, TOAD, XML SPY, and Ultra-Edit as tools in building the application.  ? Provided additional server side and client-side validations.  ? Wrote Shell scripts for automatic database start-up/shutdown.  ? Implemented various complex SQL queries.  ? Used JIRA for the issues reported by the testing team.  ? Developed various JUnit, test cases for Unit and Functional Testing respectively.  ? Worked with Testers in resolving various defects in the application and was an integral part of the team.  ? Developed producer and consumer RESTful web services component.  ? Used LDAP Authentication for single sign and authentication, logging and Validating User Credentials.  ? Client-side validations using JavaScript.  ? Did unit testing and integration testing for the stop and transfer modules.  ? Working with production support tools like HP Service Manager, Alarm Point, REACT, Control-M, Tivoli Work Station and Enterprise Password Vault.  Environment: Java 1.8, C++, Spring4.2.2, Hibernate 4.2.21, JNDI, JSP, Servlets, JMS, AJAX, HTML, XML, Apache Tomcat application server, WebLogic Application Server, AngularJS, JBoss, REST Web services, Apache Axis, Unix Shell Scripting, Log4J, JUnit, Maven, UML, Intellij, DB2, J Profiler, Java Performance Analysis Tool, Eclipse Memory Analyzer. Full Stack Developer T-Mobile - Atlanta, GA February 2012 to April 2015 Description: T-Mobile.com, My tmobile.com are the two TMOBILE web-based and mobile applications to sell devices and register plans with various selling features. It also helps in maintaining customer accounts so that customer can view and manage their billing monthly details. These apps let third parties like Walmart to sell T- mobile products.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development and understanding of business requirements and implement the process using Agile (Scrum) methodology  ? Implemented the front end using HTML 5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JQuery and Angular JS.  ? Created responsive web pages using Bootstrap and wrote client-side application in a clean MVC model using Angular JS2.  ? Developed RESTful Web Services with JAX-RS using Spring Boot and Micro Services Architecture.  ? Implemented the application using Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring4x, Spring Boot, Spring Security and Hibernate.  ? Used Spring IOC framework for Dependency Injection and Spring AOP for logging purposes.  ? Implemented the authentication and authorization of the application using Spring Security and OAuth.  ? Implemented Core Java concepts like Multithreading, Concurrency, Exception Handling and Collections wherever necessary in the application.  ? Spring beans were used for controlling the flow between UI and Hibernate.  ? Implemented the application using various design patterns such as Singleton, DAO, Factory and Service Locator.  ? Developed Micro-Services based architecture to enable the application to be deployed on AWS.  ? Responsible for creating an instance on Amazon EC2 (AWS) and deployed the application on it.  ? Worked on AWS services to deploy static websites and dynamic Web Apps on EC2 using Elastic Beanstalk and Elastic Container Service-Docker.  ? Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins and GitHub  ? Maintained SVN repositories for DevOps environment automation code and configuration.  ? Used Spring Data Framework to use the features of Spring JDBC and Spring ORM classes like JDBC Template and Hibernate Template to perform the database operations by connecting to Data sources available.  ? Performed CRUD operations like Update, Insert and Delete data in Mongo DB.  ? Worked on Mongo DB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication and schema design etc.  ? Written SQL, PL/SQL, stored procedures for Oracle database.  ? Used Mockito for testing the application and Log4j for logging all the debugging and error information.  ? Used Maven as build automation tool and responsible for Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) process implementation using Jenkins.  ? Used GitHub as Version Control tool, Jira for issue tracking and Intellij as IDE.  ? Deployed and tested the application on Web Sphere Application Server.  Environment: Java1.8, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Hibernate, RESTful, SOAP, Hibernate, Mockito, Micro Service Architecture, Amazon Web Services, Swagger, Oracle, MongoDB, Maven, Jenkins, GitHub, Jira, UNIX and Web Sphere Application Server. Education Bachelors of Technology in Computer Science Engineering in Computer Science Engineering JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jax, Jax-rpc, Jax-ws, Jboss, jquery, Jsf, Jsp, Servlet, Struts, Api, Case tools, Design patterns, Git, Javascript, Json Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Languages Java, J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL.  Enterprise Java JSP, Servlet, JDBC, Log4J API, Java security  Mark-up/XML Technologies DHTML, XHTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, CSS, XML, XSD, XSL/XSLT, SAX/DOM, AJAX, JQuery, JSON  Tools & Framework  Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, JSF, JUnit, SOAP UI, Mockito, Power Mockito, Easy Mockito , Kafka.    Web services SOAP, RESTful, UDDI, WSDL, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS JAX-WS, JAX-B, Axis2, CXF  Web/App Servers WebSphere, Apache Tomcat, JBoss EAP, Web Logic Server  Database Oracle, SQL-Server, MySQL server, TOAD  IDEs Spring Tool Suite, Eclipse, Net Beans, IBM Web Sphere Rational Architect and IntelliJ  Modeling/ CASE Tools Rational Rose, MS Visio Professional  Testing Tools/ Others Soap UI, Apache JMeter, Postman, Swagger  Version Control Tortoise SVN, CVS, Git  OS & Environment Windows, Sun Solaris, UNIX, Linux  Design Patterns MVC, Front Controller, Singleton, Business Delegate and DAO patterns  Micro Services Spring Boot, JHipster