Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Freddie Mac McLean, VA * Around 6+ years of experience in design, development and Agile methodologies like SCRUM, Test Driven Development (TDD), Incremental and Iteration methodology and Testing using Software Development Life Cycle.  * Strong programming skills in Java, C/C++, Multi-Threaded applications, and J2EE technologies like JDBC, JSP, JMS, servlets.  * Experienced in Development, Testing and Deployment of enterprise applications on Windows, Linux and UNIX platforms using IDEs such as Eclipse, NetBeans, IntelliJ1.  * Experience in building single page applications (SPA) using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript.  * Experience in development of web applications using Java/J2EE, Servlets, Hibernate (ORM), JSP, JSF, JSTL, Spring, Spring boot, EJB, JMS, Servlets, Web Services (SOAP, REST), E-Commerce, Micro Services, JDBC, JAXP, Swing.  * Experienced in MVC (Model View Controller) architecture with Struts and Springs framework involving various J2EE design patterns  * Experience in Java technologies which include Java Collections, Interfaces, Synchronization, Serialization, IO, Exception Handling, Multi-Threading, Java Beans, REST API, WSDL.  * Expertise in design and development of enterprise level spring-based web applications using Spring REST, Hibernate, EJB, Struts, Servlets 3.x, JSP and JSF for User Interface Applications.  * Rich experience in consuming Restful web services by making asynchronous calls to the server using Ajax, Super-agent, Axioms, isomorphic-fetch and resolving the JSON from the response  * Experience in working with the NoSQL and Apache Cassandra.  * Experience in testing with JUnit Framework using Mockito and Easy Mock, Spring JUnit Runner, JMeter.  * Experience in working with Relational Database (RDBMS) concepts like database designing, Normalization, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, Triggers etc.  * Experience in writing SQL queries, Stored Procedures for accessing and managing databases such as Oracle, MySQL, MS SQL Server, DB2.  * Implementing Micro services to base on Restful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC and Apache Kafka.  * Good experience with Spring AOP, Spring Transactions, Spring Security, Spring Quartz batch jobs. Used Executor Framework to deal with Java Threads.  * Involved in building and deploying Apache ANT/ MAVEN scripts for deployment and customizing WAR/ JAR file management for web applications.  * Experience with Docker images, Containers, push/pull with Spring Boot, used Jenkins for CICD and AI.  * Experienced in web Application servers like Web Logic 10.0, JBoss 7.1.0, WebSphere 8 and Tomcat 8.  * Strong Understanding in using Amazon Web Services AWS and experience focusing on services like EC2, VPC, Cloud Watch, Cloud Formation, IAM, S3, Amazon RDS, Elastic Cache, SNS, SQS.  * Expertise in several testing environments like JUnit, Selenium, CURL, Jenkins, SoapUI and System Testing.  * Developed applications using latest technologies like EJB3.2, Spring, Hibernate3, and REST based Web services.  * Good knowledge in front end testing tools using Jasmine, Karma and Protractor.  * Experience with CICD-Ant, Maven, Gradle, Jenkins, Hudson, CVS, Git, GitHub, Nexus, Jenkins job creation.  * Worked on Web Services testing using Selenium, RC Server, Selenium Grid/Web Driver Testing, SOAPUI & Testing.  * Very good communication and analytical skills and can work independently as well as in a team environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer Freddie Mac - McLean, VA January 2019 to Present Description: As a JAVA/JEE Developer for Central Data Store - Loan APP and Contract APP, under the umbrella of Single Family. In the sphere of FHLMC, APPs are highly available, business critical and sustenance applications, intended to receive mortgage related-data from the various upstream systems, subsequently storing it and provisioning for the downstream consumers; with interaction through event messages and/or web-services.  Responsibilities:  * Used Agile methodology and attended daily and weekly SCRUM meetings to update working status etc.  * Developed Graphical User Interfaces using HTML5, CSS3, bootstrap, AngularJS and JSP's for user interaction.  * Implemented controllers, models and used ng-repeat to render JSON response to DOM  * Developed SPA (Single Page Applications) for presentation layer (UI) using Angular 2 with client-side validations.  * Implemented Spring MVC architecture and Spring Bean Factory using IOC, AOP concepts.  * Extensively used Core Spring MVC Framework for Dependency Injections of components.  * Worked on Thread handling to maintain continuity of execution and extensively implemented Multithreading concept to handle Transaction Management with isolation and propagation levels.  * Built microservices with Spring Boot to serve multiple applications across the organization. The data is provided & consumed in JSON  * Created Hibernate mappings and debug issues related to data integrity  * Created RFP microservice to provide RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Microservices.  * Used Web Logic for design, development, and deployment of applications.  * Developed the Web Services Client using REST, RSDL for verifying the new customer history to a connection.  * Strong Knowledge on Hibernate and in using Hibernate Connection Pooling, HQL, Collections, Hibernate Caching and Hibernate Transactions.  * Experience in developing and implementing Micro services and applications using Spring-boot on Docker.  * Extensive experience developing Web based applications using Java, J2EE, Web Services (SOAP & REST).  * Used J2EE design patterns like MVC, Singleton, Factory, DAO, DTO and Service Locator etc.  * Developed RESTful web services using Jersey, Spring framework and JAX-RS.  * Created REST based web services by establishing links using HATEOAS from Spring based application.  * Used Spring core for dependency injection/inversion of control (IOC), and integrated with Hibernate.  * Spring Boot Microservices were developed with microservice architecture using REST and Apache Kafka.  * Identified Re-Usable components in all modules and written Re-usable functions using Selenium Web driver and Java / Java Script.  * Developed and Implemented micro services applications using Cloud Foundry, Spring Boot.  * Deployed Docker contained Spring boot micro services into Spring EC2 container service using AWS admin console  * Experience with building Docker Images and running them on Docker container.  * Developed Python OO Design code for logging and debugging code optimization.  * Prepare Java/J2EE development structure for Eclipse, maven, Jetty.  * Used Jenkins as the integration tool and improved scalability of applications on cross-platforms.  * Used JIRA to keep track of bugs and issues.  * Using JUnit test in Eclipse, developed Unit test cases and test suite. Curl was also implemented to test  * Used Maven for build and deployment to Tomcat server and Splunk as log monitoring.  * Developed Ansible to manage Web applications, Environments configuration, Users, Mount points and Packages.  * Used Git for version control and JIRA for bug Tracking and Project Management.  * Participated in requirements Analysis work with Business/system analyst team to understand requirements.  * Complete development with limited supervision from the development Technical lead.  * Provide resolutions to defects on projects, production issues, controls, testing under limited supervising.  * Follow established methodology and controls guidelines.  * Participated in root cause analysis, reviews when applicable.  * Recommended changes to procedures which result in operational optimization.  * Interacting with project stake holders and various project members to ensure the specified business need or met.  * Assists in post implementation analysis to ensure that requirements are fulfilled.  * Maintaining current technical knowledge in the technologies used and proactively identify opportunities for improvement.  * Provide technical support to other developers and production support team.  * Support root cause analysis of complex production issues.  * Contribute to the enhancement of loan or contract application, development and delivery standards, tools and process.  * Evangelize new technologies and tools promote code quality by leading design and solve challenging issues related to performance tuning and scalability.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring 4.x, Hibernate, Spring Boot, JavaScript, Angular, Typescript, HTML 5.0, CSS3, NPM, Web pack, Swing, UNIX, Apache Tomcat, eclipse, Oracle 11g, Log4J, JUnit, Selenium, XML, Web Services, Rest full, Git, Micro services, Docker. Full Stack Java Developer JP Morgan Chase - New York, NY September 2017 to December 2018 Description: This application is to generate reports and improve the performance of existing reports. Major transactions include account transactions, credit card transactions and wire transactions. Customers can do banking from anywhere in the world using Internet. Other functionality includes payments of bills, account summary, current transactions, history of transactions, stop payments, check clearings, download transaction listings, online applications, enrollment for account holders and email facility.  Responsibilities:  * Developed and tested modules using Agile (SCRUM) methodologies and developed Technical design documents.  * Followed Agile with JIRA for a 2-week release approach of development/deployment strategy.  * Responsible for Acceptance Test Driven Development (ATDD) or Behavior Driven Development (BDD) approaches to developing and testing software.  * Used jQuery to make the HTML, CSS interact with JavaScript functions to add dynamism to web page.  * Worked with controller, service and view components in applications using Spring Boot framework.  * Implemented Spring modules like Controller, DI/IOC, Auto wiring, Spring security, AOP and AspectJ.  * Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) was exposed through RESTful web services with loose coupling between layers using Spring framework during development.  * Designed and developed Microservices using REST framework and Spring Boot.  * Enterprise level web applications were supported by building Spring based Java micro services.  * Created Single Page Application (SPA) which can data bind and synchronize server with AngularJS framework.  * Java expression tags were avoided using Bean, HTML and Logic Tags, and used display tags to render large data.  * Involved in developing role-based HTML navigational menu, where in menu items change dynamically based on the values derived from database in the form of XML data.  * Hibernate DAO classes were developed to retrieve and save data using Spring framework manager classes.  * Experience in Creating, Dropping Indexes, Tables, Stored Procs and Views on Oracle DB.  * Designed and developed front end screens for new reports using Swing components.  * JSON used as the main data-interchange format in place of XML.  * Implementation of data access layer has been cumbersome for a while and this was greatly resolved using Spring JPA through implementation of data access layers there by reducing boiler-plate-code.  * Used Micro-services to ensure the scalability of application on cloud infrastructure.  * Involved in developing the persistence layer using Hibernate framework.  * Used Hibernate as an implementation engine for JPA API.  * Developed store procedures and complex queries using tool called PL/SQL developer.  * Used Maven for building, deploying application, creating JPA based entity objects and compiling GWT application.  * Configured WebSphere Application Server (WAS) on multiple platforms for both horizontal and vertical scaling.  * Installing, configuring and administering Jenkins CI tool using Chef on AWS EC2 instances.  * Developed, Tested and Deployed application in Apache Tomcat 8.0 server.  * Log4J is used for logging purposes and debug levels are defined for controlling what we log.  * Writing Unit test cases using JUnit testing framework and performed unit and system testing.  * Used Jenkins for continuous integration in which all development work is integrated and involved in deploying the application using Docker to AWS environment.  * Developed DAO layer using Cassandra and expertise in CQL (Cassandra Query Language), for retrieving the data present in Cassandra cluster by running queries in CQL.  * Created and configured management reports and dashboards using Splunk.  * Used Subversion (SVN) as source control tool.  Environment: Java/Jdk 1.6/1.8, Eclipse, Neon, Spring, Mvc/Boot/Batch, Hibernate, Xml, Json, Rapid Sql, Oracle Web Logic, JAX_WS, Soap Api, Rest Api, JAXB, JMS, EJB, JPA, JDBC, Jenkins, Db2, Sql, Junit, Git, Micro Services, Mango Db, ServiceNow. Full Stack Java Developer Ameriprise Financial - Minneapolis, MN January 2017 to August 2017 Project: The objective of new advisor compass is a portal that addresses advisers concerns with the current portal is site, to improve. Advisor satisfaction with Ameriprise technology, and to provide an attractive and compelling portal which is easily connects advisors with tools and information they needed to serve their clients.    Responsibilities:  * Responsible for all stages of design, development, and deployment of applications. Active role in Test Driven Development termed as TDD apart from Agile Software Development  * Extensively worked with CSS Background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table, type script Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors in CSS.  * Involved in Java Multithreading to cascade multiple changes on multiple records in only one transaction  * Using Struts Framework developed and implemented the web-based application following the MVC.  * Written application level code to interact with RESTful Web APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON, XML and jQuery.  * Designed dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML, CSS, jQuery, Typescript JavaScript and AJAX.  * Developed the presentation layer using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery  * Involved in Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  * Responsible for large-scale conversion of ActionScript 3 simulation/training program type script.  * Used Spring Framework AOP Module to implement logging in the application to know the application status.  * Spring MVC Framework IOC (Inversion of Control) design pattern is used to have relationships between application components. It is also used to separate the application configuration and dependency.  * Used multithreading to improve performance in generating the reports in Java.  * Designed and developed Web Services (SOAP, WSDL). Created and compiled XML Schema to generate Java Bean classes using Apache Axis.  * Used Spring Framework for Dependency Injection and integrated it with the Struts Framework and Hibernate.  * Used the Struts Validation and Tiles Framework in the presentation layer.  * Worked on performance tuning with Web Services and Hibernate to minimize the response times to as minimal as possible (milliseconds) as per the SLAs.  * Used XML Http Request Object to provide asynchronous communication as part of AJAX implementation.  * MQ was used to provide a single unifying transport that reduces cost and maintenance efforts, including support for HTTP, REST and JMS. WSDL was used for publishing Web Service interfaces.  * Used SOAP for Web Services by exchanging XML data between applications over HTTP.  * Designed and implemented Java Classes to use JAXP parser to create Java objects to be able to modify the data received in the response.  * Used Git-Hub repository for version control. Wrote Ant Scripts to automate the build and deploy process.  * Deployed J2EE applications in WebSphere application server by building and deploying ear file using ANT script.  * Involved in Code Review, Unit Testing and Integration Testing, Selenium Web Driver.  * Worked on Oracle 10g for applications containing Annotated EJB3.0 entities relating to JPA.  * Configured Log4j tool to log the entire application  Environment: Agile (SCRUM), Subversion (SVN), XML, XSL, HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3, Ajax, Spring4.x, Hibernate 4.x, AWS, WebSphere, Swing, Web Services, JMS, TestNG, JSON, Maven, Log4j, Micro services, Oracle DB. Java Developer Brandsafway - Milwaukee, WI January 2016 to December 2016 Project: This application helps agents track their team members daily activities. Both agents and team members log their daily activities. Agents can track their daily activities. while team members can view their daily tasks.    Responsibilities:  * Involved in various phases of software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  * Extensively used core Java Collections, Generics, Exception Handling, and Design Patterns for functionality Involved in writing different Design Patterns like Filter, Action, Business Delegate, Service Locater, Data Transfer Objects (DTOs) and Data Access Objects (DAOs)  * Written ANT scripts for building application artifacts. Monitored the error logs using Log4J and fixing the problems.  * Wrote PL/SQL stored procedures, prepared statement and used API.  * Involved in writing and executing stored procedures, functions and triggers for Oracle to create a Database  * Used JDBC/Hibernate in persistence layer of the application.  * Log4J is used for logging purposes and debug levels are defined for controlling what we log.  * Writing Unit test cases using JUnit testing framework and performed unit and system testing.  * Used Jenkins for continuous integration in which all development work is integrated and involved in deploying the application using Docker to AWS environment.  * Used multithreading to improve performance in generating the reports in Java.  * Designed and developed Web Services (SOAP, WSDL). Created and compiled XML Schema to generate Java Bean classes using Apache Axis.  * Participated in requirements Analysis work with Business/system analyst team to understand requirements.  * Complete development with limited supervision from the development Technical lead.  * Provide resolutions to defects on projects, production issues, controls, testing under limited supervising.  * Follow established methodology and controls guidelines.  * Participated in root cause analysis, reviews when applicable.  * Recommended changes to procedures which result in operational optimization.  * Interacting with project stake holders and various project members to ensure the specified business need or met.  * Assists in post implementation analysis to ensure that requirements are fulfilled.  * Maintaining current technical knowledge in the technologies used and proactively identify opportunities for improvement.  * Provide technical support to other developers and production support team.  * Support root cause analysis of complex production issues.  * Contribute to the enhancement of loan or contract application, development and delivery standards, tools and process.  * Evangelize new technologies and tools promote code quality by leading design and solve challenging issues related to performance tuning and scalability.  * Able to navigate a large corporative environment and ensure appropriate process are met.  * Used multithreading to improve performance in generating the reports in Java.  * Designed and developed Web Services (SOAP, WSDL). Created and compiled XML Schema to generate Java Bean classes using Apache Axis.  * Used Spring Framework for Dependency Injection and integrated it with the Struts Framework and Hibernate.  * Used the Struts Validation and Tiles Framework in the presentation layer.  * Used XML Http Request Object to provide asynchronous communication as part of AJAX implementation.  * MQ was used to provide a single unifying transport that reduces cost and maintenance efforts, including support for HTTP, REST and JMS. WSDL was used for publishing Web Service interfaces.  * Used SOAP for Web Services by exchanging XML data between applications over HTTP.  * Designed and implemented Java Classes to use JAXP parser to create Java objects to be able to modify the data received in the response.  * Used Git-Hub repository for version control. Wrote Ant Scripts to automate the build and deploy process.  * Deployed J2EE applications in WebSphere application server by building and deploying ear file using ANT script.  * Involved in Code Review, Unit Testing and Integration Testing, Selenium Web Driver.  * Worked on Oracle 10g for applications containing Annotated EJB3.0 entities relating to JPA.  * Configured Log4j tool to log the entire application.  Environment: Core Java/J2EE, Servlets, JSTL, CSS, JSON, JMS, XML, XSLT, JDBC, Ajax, Spring AOP Module, Ant Scripts, HTML, JavaScript, Eclipse, UML, WebSphere Application Server, CVS, JUnit, Ant, Oracle 10g. Java Developer Marks and Spencer's - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2013 to July 2015 Project: It is used by the Boeing client to maintain their product information and used to develop next version of product using existing information.  Responsibilities:  * Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  * Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular, jQuery, AJAX and JSON. Developed dynamic e-mails using JavaScript, and hand coding of HTML5, XHTML.  * Created Dashboards using Java and Servlets along with HTML and JavaScript.  * Extensively used core Java Collections, Generics, Exception Handling, and Design Patterns for functionality Involved in writing different Design Patterns like Filter, Action, Business Delegate, Service Locater, Data Transfer Objects (DTOs) and Data Access Objects (DAOs)  * Created Servlets which route submittals to appropriate Enterprise Java Bean (EJB) components and render retrieved information. Developed various EJB components to fulfill the business functionality.  * Developed Session Beans to process requests from the user and used entity beans to retrieve and update customer  * Involved in writing the exception and validation classes using Struts validation rules.  * Implemented the Email module, which included setting up JMS message queue.  * Used Apache Axis for consuming Web Services.  * Used JDBC/Hibernate in persistence layer of the application.  * Used WebSphere Application Server for deploying various components of application.  * Persistence layer was implemented using Hibernate Framework.  * Front-end is designed by using HTML, CSS, JSP, Servlets, JSTL, Ajax and Struts.  * Involved in developing the CSS sheets for the UI Components. Used JavaScript for the web page validation.  * Written ANT scripts for building application artifacts. Monitored the error logs using Log4J and fixing the problems.  * Wrote PL/SQL stored procedures, prepared statement and used API.  * Involved in writing and executing stored procedures, functions and triggers for Oracle to create a Database  * Gradle build tool used to add dependencies to the project.  * Used XML with SAX parser to transfer data between applications. Used JUnit for unit testing.    Environment: J2EE, Java SDK, XML, SAX, JSP, JMS, HTML, JavaScript, Struts, Hibernate, Servlets, Eclipse, Web Services, JUnit, Unix, Ajax, EJB, RMI, JNI, WebSphere Application Server, ANT, CVS, Gradle, Oracle 10g. Java Developer SJI Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana February 2013 to June 2013 Project: This project covered hospital functions, management activities and decision-making. It provided all-round and all-angle support for the modern hospital.  Responsibilities:  * The system was designed per J2EE specifications. Servlets were used as a Front Controller gateway into the system. Helper classes were used to limit the business logic in the servlet. EJB was used to talk to the database and JSP along with HTML, XML was used to control the client view  * Developed Action Classes, which acts as the controller in Struts framework  * Created table and different batch programs to clean up tables in DB2 database  * Extensively used Collections and Exceptions in the batch program for database cleanup  * Establishing JDBC connection using database connection pool  * Wrote complex SQL statements to retrieve data from the DB2 database  * The application was developed using Eclipse on Windows XP.  * Implemented Log4j to maintain system log.  * Used Junit framework for Unit testing of application  * Used Clear Case for version control.    Environment: JAVA, J2EE, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, windows/Unix, Struts, Servlets, JSP, EJB, Eclipse, JDBC, DB2, ClearCase Education Master's Skills Api, C++, Gradle, Html, Javascript, Jenkins, Reporting tools, Xml, Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Javabeans, Jax, Jax-rpc, Jax-ws, Jbuilder, jquery, Jsp Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  LANGUAGES C, C++ with OOPS, Java 1.7/1.8, J2EE  WEB TECHNOLOGIES SERVLETS 3.1, JSP 3.0, JavaBeans 3.0, Java Servlets API.  FRAMEWORKS Spring 4.x, Hibernate 4. x.  APPLICATION/WEB SERVERS Tomcat 8, IBM WebSphere 8.x/9.x, Jetty, Jenkins, WebSphere MQ.  RELATIONAL DATABASES Oracle 10g/11g, SQL server, MySQL, DB2.  NOSQL DATABASES MongoDB  INTERNET TECHNOLOGIES HTML 5, JavaScript, XML 2.0, CSS 3, jQuery, Angular,  IDE Eclipse, NetBeans, Intellij, Spring Tool Suite (STS)  OPERATING SYSTEM Windows 10, Linux Mint, Unix  BUG TRACKING TOOLS JUNIT, JIRA, Bugzilla.  REPORTING TOOLS Jasper Reports 6.0, Crystal Reports XI, SSRS 5.0  METHODOLOGIES Agile, waterfall, TDD (Test-Driven-Development), Scrum  DEVELOPER IDE PLATFORMS Eclipse, Edit plus, Notepad ++, TEXT PAD, JBuilder, Net Beans, Intellij, Spring Tool Suite (STS), GITHUB.  BUILD TOOLS Ant, Maven, Gradle.  WEB SERVICES SOAP, REST, JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS