Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Tech Data Corporation Clearwater, FL • Overall 8+ years of experience as Java developer involving analysis, design, implementation, integration, administration, and testing of various enterprise applications.  • Experience in all phases of software development life cycle (SDLC), which includes User Interaction, Business Analysis/Modeling, Design/Architecture, Development, Implementation, Integration, Documentation, Testing, and Deployment.  • Experience in Java/J2EE IBM WebSphere Application Server Administration, MQ, Message Broker and IIB on Linux and Windows Platforms and good knowledge in WebLogic  • Development experience using Java/J2EE (JDK 1.6, Java, JSF 2.0/1.2, JSP 1.1/1.2, Servlets 2.3, JDBC1.0/2.0, EJB 2.0, MDB, JTA, JPA, JNDI, JMS, IBM MQ, Web Services (Axis, JAX-RPC, JAX-WS), MVC Struts 1.2, 2.0 frameworks, Hibernate 3.0, Spring 2.0, Log4j, JUnit4, Maven and ANT)  • Development and deployment experience with BEA Web logic [ ] IBM WebSphere V7.0/6.1, Apache Tomcat 6.0 and JBoss 4.0 Application Servers.  • Experienced in J2EE Design Patterns, MVC, Session Façade, Service Locator, Data Access Object, Data Transfer Object / Value Object, Business Delegate and Factory.  • Used performance test tools (i.e Apache JMeter and JProfiler) to analyze and resolve performance bottlenecks  • Extensive experience in installing, configuring, maintaining, design, development, implementation, and support on IBM AIX 5.x /6.1/7.X (p505, p570, p720, p770 and p795) and Windows Operating  Environments.  • Sound experience in Python, Java, Object Oriented programming and Multithreading, etc.  • Developed presentation layer using JSF, JSF, JSTL, HTML5, DHTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Technical Expertise in Spring Framework features, Dependency Injection, AOP, JDBC Templates, Hibernate Integration, Hibernate Template, JMS Template and POJO objects.  • Used XML, XSD, DTD, SAX and DOM Parsers in developing multiple projects  • Experienced with Relational Databases Oracle 10g, MYSQL Server.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle of the application like requirements gathering, Design, Analysis, Development and Testing  • Experience with Front-end JavaScript frameworks like Angular JS, Node.js.  • Implemented load-balancing with NGINX to allow dozens of Node.js instances to handle thousands of concurrent users.  • Experience in client and server-side scripting languages like Typescript, Angular 4.  • Exposed the application using Rest Web Service, developed http post, get methods based on requirement and handled the errors using http status codes.  • Designed and developed Microservices based on the card accounts using Spring Boot.  • Used Spring MVC, Spring IOC to handle/intercept the user requests and used various controllers to delegate the request flow to the Backend tier of the application.  • Used spring integration for integrating the application with Microservices using spring integration workflow files.  • Developed Consumer-based custom features and applications using Python and HTML. Experienced with Software Development Life Cycle, strong experience in data engineering, Database designs, agile methodologies, coding, testing of enterprise applications and IDE's such as Jupiter Notebook, PyCharm and Atom  • Hands on experience on Azure VPN-Point to Site, Virtual networks, Azure Custom security, Endpoint security and firewall.  • Experienced troubleshooting Mule ESB, including working with debuggers, flow analyzers, and configuration tools.  • Architected Integrations using Mule Soft ESB environments for both on premise and Cloud hub environments.  • Experience in configuring databases like oracle, DB2, SQL server with WebSphere 5.x/6.x/7.x/8.x, JBOSS 5.x/6.x, and Application servers. Experience in deploying J2EE applications on JBOSS 5.x/6.x Enterprise application platform.  • Responsible for creating and maintaining architecture for Restful API using Spring Boot.  • Good experience on Unix/Linux.  • Designed and developed an internal virtual meeting software using Angular 4+.  • Configuration and maintenance of Redhat Satellite server. Includes registering new servers, keeping the channels synced and providing entitlements to new servers as needed.  • Implemented systems that are highly available, scalable, and self-healing on the AWS platform.  • Experience in testing tools like JMeter and Postman.  • Perform analysis of new and different application programming solutions, enhancing current systems and supporting overall business goals.  • Used Apache Kafka (Message Queues) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information between multiple business applications.  • Filtering and cleaning data using Scala code and SQL Queries.  • Experienced in Software Development Processes like SCRUM, Waterfall, Iterative and Agile Methodologies.  • Have started working with new tools like Jenkins, Chef and Rabbit MQ.  • Creating and supporting of JMS, MQ connection factory, topics, queues, channel, listeners.  • Good experience using version control tools; CVS, SVN, GIT, and Rational Clear Case.  • Experienced in developing the unit test cases using JUnit 3.0/4.0.  • Experienced in code audit, performance testing and application tuning.  • Set up build environment by writing ANT build.xml, taking build, configuring and deploying applications in all the servers.  • Excellent Client interaction skills and proven experience in working independently as well as in a team. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Tech Data Corporation - Clearwater, FL August 2018 to Present Tech Data Cloud empowers information technology solution providers by offering access to our portfolio of cloud technologies with best-in-class vendors, the ability to power their solutions through Stream One platform and the tools needed to master the cloud journey with a proven track record of enablement services    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Agile software development.  • Involved in migration of a project from .Net to Java  • Worked with Cisco, IBM (Maas 360, Kenexa), Symantec, Autodesk and Oracle  • Developed applications using Angular2, Java8 and new features of java (lambda expressions)  • Developed screens using HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX.  • Design and developed the application using framework Angular 2 with HTML5, CSS3 and Typescript.  • Developed UI components using Angular 2 dependency Injection, Models, data binding and controllers.  • Implemented Angular 2 Router to enable navigation from one view to another.  • Used Protractor to perform End to end testing for single page application developed using Angular 2.  • Developed Application to asses JSON and XML from Restful web service from consumer side using Angular 2.  • Integrated all of these services within the Mendix platform on which we developed.  • Worked on Responsive Web Design using Bootstrap and Plygrid framework.  • Developed various generic JavaScript, Angular functions to implement client-side validations.  • Involved in developing Thread Safe blocks for multithread access and distributed transaction management.  • Created and injected spring services, controllers and DAOs to achieve dependency injection.  • Heavily used Spring Inheritance, Auto-wiring, Core Container, Security, AOP and Spring Quartz for scheduling tasks to generate reports and emails to clients.  • Developed Persistence layer using Spring Data to interact with the Database.  • Developed Spring Restful/Microservices and implemented Spring Restful/Micro Services and implemented Spring Eureka, Netflix, Ribbon as part of Services Discovery using Apache Axis.  • Implemented Spring MVC flow to interact with different modules and extensively used Spring AOP and Dependency injection during various modules of project.  • Developed Microservices with Spring Eureka to retrieve API routes for the entire cluster. Using this strategy each spring service in a cluster can be load balanced and exposed through one API gateway.  • Used Micro service architecture with Spring Boot based services interacting through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka message brokers.  • Implemented Authentication & Authorization with Site Minder and Spring security.  • Implemented REST based web services using JAX-RS annotations, Jersey provider and consumed using HTTP services from angular 2 modules.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) like EC2, S3, cloud watch and Elastic Bean Stalk for code deployment.  • Writing Entities in Java, Play Framework along with named queries to interact with database.    Environment: Java 1.7, J2EE, GWT, Hibernate, Spring framework, J-unit, Mockito, Sql, Understand Pl/SQL (Indexes, Views, functions, Procedures etc), Oracle, J2EE, WINSCP, Putty, Git, Bit-Bucket, Sql Developer. Sr. Java Developer Century Link - Denver, CO August 2016 to July 2018 Partner in a team environment or be able to independently design, develop, code, test and debug new software or significant enhancements to existing software of moderate complexity. Develop solutions across many disciplines and be responsible for explaining solutions and procedures. Apply principles, theories and concepts and use methodologies, tools, documentation processes and test procedures to complete projects related to moderately complex software.    Responsibilities:  • Interacted with Business team and third party for Requirements gathering and also participated in the implementation of new Application according to the Business Requirement Document (BRD)  • Developed project using MongoDB, ExpressJS, Angular 2, NodeJS, Typescript, HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap  • implemented optimization techniques to reduce page size and load times to enhance user experience using sprites  • As a Technical Team Lead, analyze the system specifications/requirements and participate in the client's meetings, convert the requirements into tasks and assign to the team.  • Designed the front end of the application using Python 3.6.5, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery. Worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.Involved in database connectivity using JDBC Database and Connection pools. Managing and Monitoring the JVM performance by analyzing Heap Size, garbage collection, JDBC Pools on JBoss.  • Developed Kafka consumers to consume data from Kafka topics  • Used Bootstrap and AngularJS, React.js and Node.js in effective web design.  • Responsible for creating web-based applications using React JS, Node.js, and Redux workflow  • Build prototype for various required services such as Scheduling, Logging and Notification Service using third party Node JS based JavaScript library.  • Developed various web applications /web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, React JS, NodeJS. Designed various web concepts like security (OAuth, SiteMinder and OpenID), session controlling, storage.  • Experience in Web Application Development, hands on experience of Python/Django, Flask, SQL Alchemy, SQLite, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML5/CSS3, Bootstrap and JSON/AJAX.  • Experience in developing web services (REST) and consuming web services with python programming language.  • Have knowledge in Angular 2 to build interactive web applications.  • involved in migrating development architecture to microservices by implementing Docker  • Extensive knowledge and working experience of web development technologies such as, JavaScript, jQuery UI, AngularJS, Angular2/4, HTML5, CSS3, SASS and Bootstrap.  • Experience in designing and developing integration solutions using WebSphere Message Broker and Message Broker Toolkit.  • Responsible for setting up Prod/Dev environments using Java Eclipse, JBoss, ANT, and Oracle 9g, MS SQL Server database  • Automated WAR deployment procedure in production environment running on JBOSS EAP 5.x using UNIX shell script.  • Development of small Shell Script programs for Red Hat Linux server such as Log files handle, check status of applications, check tables spaces on database servers and so on.  Supervision of Development Teams and Offshore Teams for development and maintenance application activities.  • Used JPA ( Java Persistence API) with Hibernate as Persistence provider for Object Relational mapping.  • Engineered, designed, and operationalized Cloud Foundry in an extremely large-scale environment to host over 700 applications across multiple geographically dispersed datacenters.  • Deployed infrastructure on AWS utilizing as EC2 (Virtual Servers in the Cloud), RDS (Managed Relational Database Service), VPC and Managed Network and Security, Route 53, Direct Connect, IAM, Cloud Formation, AWS Ropeworks (Automate operations), AWS S3, Glacier (Storage in the cloud) and Cloud Watch Monitoring Management  • Developed the Front end for the application using HTML5, Angular JS, JSP and JavaScript.  • Coded in Angular JS MVC Framework to make single page and Allocation price configurations pages.  • Used MongoDB third party tools (ROBO MONGO, MongoDB access manager) and mongo-built in binaries to monitor and analysis the performance of MongoDB  • Implemented Angular app with CRUD features utilizing all concepts of Angular 4 i.e. Data binding,  Components, Directives, in-built and user-defined directives, Routing, Observables, Forms, Pipes, Services with Dependency Injection  • Configured WebSphere Application Server in conjunction with DB2, Oracle  • Extensively used Mule components that include Data Weave, JAXB, File Transport, SMTP Transport, FTP/SFTP Transport, and JDBC Connector and VM.  • Have designed API using RAML and defined JSON schemas based on API led connectivity i.e. System API, Process API and Experience API.  • Checking the coding standards using checklists, JTest.  • Involved in writing JUnit test cases for Unit Testing service classes.  • Used Serena Dimensions to automate the build process and deploy the application to Web Sphere Application Server.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Java SE 6, UML, JSP 2.1, JSTL 1.2, Servlets 2.5, Spring MVC, Hibernate, JSON, Restful Web services, jQuery, AJAX, Angular Js, JAXB, IRAD Web Sphere Integration Developer, Web Sphere 7.0, Active MQ, Rabbit MQ, Eclipse Kepler-Maven, JBoss application servers 5.1.x and Tomcat 5.x, 6.x, 7.x Oracle. Project: Service Marketing and Program Administration Rewrite (SMPA), Linux RedHat and Windows 2008 servers, Senior Java Developer Caterpillar IL October 2014 to July 2016 To rewrite the existing SMPA screens to work in conjunction with 7 other existing SMPA programs. Streamline and simplify the dealer program enrollment, maintenance and execution for these SMPA programs.    Responsibilities:  • Interacted with Business team and third party for Requirements gathering and also participated in the implementation of new Application according to the Business Requirement Document (BRD)  • As a Technical Team Lead, analyze the system specifications/requirements and participate in the client's meetings, convert the requirements into tasks and assign to the team.  • Implemented "Maven Module based with Model View Controller (MVC2) " framework to obtain "Layered Architecture" to isolate each layer of the application for easy customization and avoid the complexity of integration.  • Rebuilt marketing website utilizing HTML5/CSS3/Bootstrap/JavaScript  • Used Spring Framework for managing transactions and dependency injection (IoC) using annotations.  • Used JPA ( Java Persistence API) with Hibernate as Persistence provider for Object Relational mapping.  • Developed the Front end for the application using HTML5, Angular JS, JSP and JavaScript.  • Coded in Angular JS MVC Framework to make single page and Allocation price configurations pages.  • WebSphere monitoring by gathering diagnostic data using administrative tools for problem solving proficiency  • Advised as a SME on the functional and security controls of Google App Engine, Google Storage, Compute, Google Functions, and Big Query.  • Focus on Compute Engine, App Engine, Kubernetes Engine, Cloud IAM, Cloud VPN, Deployment Manager, Stackdriver Logging & Monitoring, Storage & Processing Options (BigQuery, Cloud Storage)  • Developed Action Script classes for Event handling, Response handling and Error handling.  • Developed RESTful Web services to produce the data to internal systems.  • Developed SOAP JAX-WS Web services to produce data (Campaign program) to third party vendors and to fetch the data from third party vendors.  • Used JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX for displaying data in customized format on User Interface.  • Used Test-Driven Development methodology (TDD) to grow software capability and refractor into well-designed maintainable software.  • Used Serena Dimensions to automate the build process and deploy the application to Web Sphere Application Server.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Java SE 6, UML, JSP 2.1, JSTL 1.2, Servlets 2.5, Spring MVC, Hibernate, JSON, Restful & JAX-WS (SOAP) Web services, jQuery, AJAX, Angular Js, JAXB, IRAD Web Sphere Integration Developer, Web Sphere 7.0, Eclipse Kepler-Maven, SOAP UI, Serena Dimensions, Unix, JUnit, DB2, Oracle. Project: Configuration Intelligence Agent (CIA) Java Developer Cruise Lines - Miami, FL April 2013 to September 2014 Responsible for the technical design, architecture and development of internal and external software applications. Provides leadership, direction and coordination to development resources in support of project and company objectives.    Responsibilities:  • Interacted with Business team and third party for Requirements gathering and also participated in the implementation of new Application according to the Business Requirement Document (BRD)  • As a Technical Team Lead, analyze the system specifications/requirements and participate in the client's meetings, convert the requirements into tasks and assign to the team.  • Implemented "Model View Controller (MVC2) " framework to obtain "Layered Architecture" to isolate each layer of the application for easy customization and avoid the complexity of integration.  • Developed RESTful Web services to fetch the data (dealer's related data) from internal upstream systems and also to produce the data to internal systems.  • Developed SOAP JAX-WS Web services to produce data to third party vendors.  • Used JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX for displaying data in customized format on User Interface.  • Working on Oracle12c/10g data base for storing and retrieving the application data  • Involve in configuring JMS and JNDI in rational application developer.  • Involve in the usage of JPA API for configuration of ORM tools.  • Perform building and deployment of EAR, WAR, JAR files on test, stage systems in WebLogic Application Server, worked in WebLogic system administration infrastructure.  • Using Business Delegate, Service locator, Factory, Session Facade, DTO and DAO design patterns.  • Involve in code review and deployment of the application on development, testing of production servers.  • Write various Struts action classes to implement the business logic.  • Involve in the design of the project using UML Use Case Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Object diagrams, and Class Diagrams.  • Understand concepts related to and written code for advanced topics such as Java IO, Serialization and multithreading.  • Using java features such as Generics, Collections API  • Perform unit testing using JUNIT framework and tested DAO's and Business Services.  • Analyzing the client requirements and production issues  • Design and Development for enhancements & change requests  • Provide technical support for external users    Environment: Java, J2EE, Java SE 6, UML, Spring, JSP 2.1, JSTL 1.2, Servlets 2.5, Java Mail API 1.4, Restful JAX-WS (SOAP) Web services, Hibernate, jQuery, AJAX, Web Sphere 7.0, IRAD Web Sphere and Integration Developer, SOAPUI, Serena Dimensions, Unix, DB2.Project: Canada Dealer Event Registration Java Developer Wipro December 2011 to March 2013 Marketing Product Information, MPI application is the Marketing Data management tool. This application is a facilitator for adding, maintaining, controlling and distribution of the data required by various marketing agencies and units.    Responsibilities:  • Interacted with the Business Analysts in the development of requirements definition, use case analysis and implemented Functional Specification Document (FSD)  • Always followed Model View Controller (MVC) architecture to obtain Layered Architecture to isolate each layer of the application for easy customization and avoid the complexity of integration.  • Used Test-Driven Development methodology (TDD) to grow software capability and refractor into well-designed maintainable software.  • Involved in writing JUnit test cases for Unit Testing service classes  • Performing Load Test, Backend Failure Test and Memory Leak Test.  • Used Serena Dimensions to automate the build process and deploy the application to Web Sphere Application Server.    Environment: Java SE 6, Java, J2EE, IRAD Web Sphere Integration Developer 7.0, JSP 2.1, JSTL 1.2, Servlets 2.5, Struts, RESTful Web services, JavaMail API, DB2, Oracle, Unix, Serena Dimensions, TOAD Project: International Wholesale and Inventory Tracking (IWIT) Java Developer Value Labs June 2010 to November 2011 Responsibilities:  • Interacted with the Business Analysts in the development of requirements definition, use case analysis and implemented Functional Specification Document (FSD)  • Implemented "Model View Controller (MVC) " architecture to obtain "Layered Architecture" to isolate each layer of the application for easy customization and avoid the complexity of integration.  • Involved in writing JUnit test cases for Unit Testing service classes.  • Performing Load Test, Backend Failure Test and Memory Leak Test.  • Migrated the application from Web Sphere 6.0 to 7.0.  • Designed and developed Web Services using JWS JBoss Annotations.  • Provided UNIX scripting to drive automatic generation of static web pages with dynamic news content.  • Participated in requirements analysis to figure out various inputs correlated with their scenarios in Asset Liability Management (ALM)  • Assisted design and development  • Involved in design and implementation of the application using Struts 1.2 framework  • Worked extensively on server side using SOAP Webservices.  • Developed Stateless Session EJB for Server-side processing.  • Installed, configured and deployed components on IBM Web Sphere.  • Used for asynchronous processing.  • Accessed back- JMS/MQ end data source of DB2 with JDBC API.  • Did unit testing using Junit  • Involved in performance tuning.  • Used CVS for version Repository maintenance.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Java SE 6, Struts 2.0, JSP, Servlets, JavaMail API, AJAX, Web Sphere 6.0/7.0, IRAD Web Sphere Integration Developer 7.0, Serena Dimensions, Unix, DB2. Project: Capacity and Options Planning System (COPS) Education Bachelor's Skills J2EE (8 years), JAVA (8 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (8 years), WEB SERVICES (8 years), DB2 (8 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Operating Systems Windows, UNIX, LINUX  Programming Languages Java 5/6/7/8, Java Beans, SQL  J2EE Technologies Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JNDI, RMI  Frameworks Struts, Spring, Spring MVC, Spring security, Hibernate  Databases Oracle 11g, DB2, MySQL, SQL Server  Development tools IntelliJ, Eclipse, IBM RAD, NetBeans.  Web/Application servers JBoss, Web logic 10.x/8.0/7.1, Apache Tomcat, IBM WebSphere. Glassfish  Web Development HTML, DHTML, XHTML, CSS, XML, XSL, XSLT, XSD, JWT.  Scripting Languages JavaScript, Ajax, Jquery  Design Patterns Business delegate, Session Facade, Singleton, DAO, DTO, Factory Pattern  Version Controllers SVN (Apache Sub Version), GIT, CVS, Clear Case  Build/Testing tools ANT, Maven, Junit  Logging Tools Log4J, SLF4J  Web Services SOAP, WSDL, REST  Others/Tools Agile, RUP, JIRA, TOAD, MobaXterm, Test Driven Development (TDD)