Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Verizon Wireless Irving, TX • Around 6+ years of experience in analysis, design, implementation, and testing of Object-Oriented Applications in Client/Server environments using Java/J2EE.  • Experienced in Java Web-based, Desktop Based Development with Concepts of, Object Oriented Design (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis (OOA), Object Oriented Programming (OOP) and its implementation.  • Experience working with various Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodologies based on Agile, Scrum, Waterfall Model, Iteration.  • Expertise in design and development of various web and enterprise-level applications using Java/J2EE technologies Such as Spring, Hibernate, Struts framework, EJB, Servlets 3.x.  • Experienced in Middleware persistence framework like Hibernate/JPA for mapping Java classes to thedatabase and using Hibernate Query Language (HQL).  • Experienced in Front End frameworks such asjQuery, Ajax, JavaScript, Nodejs, ReactJS, BackboneJS, AngularJs.  • Experience with setup and maintenance of WebLogic Server, Apache, Tomcat, LDAP.  • Experienced in creating dashboards, reports using BackboneJS.  • Experienced in Full stack front-end technologies using GruntJS, Gulp Server, Yeoman generator for Angular.  • Implemented based on corresponding view components with view components JSP, Html, html5, CSS 3, XSD, XSTL.  • Proficient with Java Swing, AWT, SWT, JBoss, and Hibernate.  • Experienced in implementing Service-oriented architecture and Web Services using SOAP, RESTFUL.  • Solid Hands-on experience in end to end implementation of CI and CD (Continuous Delivery), DevOps processes using AWS Code Commit AWS Code Deploy, AWS Code Pipeline, Jenkins, and Ansible.  • GUI development using Swing and Eclipse RCP.  • Experience with Java 8 features such as lambda expressions, Parallel operations on collections and for effective sorting mechanisms and new Date Time API.  • Handled operations and maintenance support for AWS cloud resources which includes launching, maintaining, and troubleshooting EC2 instances, S3 buckets, Auto Scaling, Dynamo DB, AWS IAM, Elastic Load Balancers (ELB) and Relational Database Services (RDS). Also created snapshots for data to store in AWS S3.  • Experience in developing and a solid understanding of Service Oriented Architecture and Microservices Architecture.  • Red Hat JBoss was used for Building, deploying, and hosting enterprise Java applications and services.  • Proven experience in writing Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Functions, and Packages using TOAD.  • Excellent experience with major relational databases - Oracle [ ] SQL Server [ ] DB2, My SQL.  • Worked in Building application platforms in the Cloud by leveraging Amazon Web Services, open source technologies & best engineering practices of CI/CD.  • Proficient in NoSQL DB with Apache Cassandra DB, Mongo DB.  • Performance optimization by indexing, grouping, map-reduce on NoSQL DB.  • Experience with creating and workflows and Mappings, running jobs in Informatica 9.5/ETL.  • Experience in software configuration management using CVS, SVN and IBM Clear Case.  • Hands on experience with build tools like ANT, Maven, Jenkins and logging tools like Log4J.  • Expertise in testing with JUnit using tools like JMeter.  • Experienced with JUnitframeworks such as Mockito, Easy Mock.  • Experienced inMicroservices frameworks like Spring Boot, jersey and API  • Expertise in using IDEs like Eclipse, Net Beans, and RAD for developing and debugging rapid web and enterprise Java applications.  • Good working experience in using ANT and Maven scripts for building and deploying the application in web/App servers.  • Expertise in developing REST APIs with Resource-basedURLs and HATEOAS techniques using Jersey and REST Easy implementations of JAX-RS.  • Extensive experience in working on multiple operating systems including UNIX, Sun Solaris, Linux and Microsoft Windows.  • Goal oriented individual with excellent analytical, problem-solving, communication and interpersonal skills with the ability to interact with individuals at all levels and work independently. Work Experience Java Developer Verizon Wireless - Irving, TX April 2018 to Present Description:Verizon Wireless is an American telecommunications company which offers wireless products and services. It is a wholly owned subsidiary of Verizon Communications. Verizon Wireless is the largest wireless telecommunications provider in the United States.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle including Requirement Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance.  • Participate in IPM and Three Amigo sessions to understand the requirements and to come up with estimates  • Working on migrating the current large enterprise web architecture into cloud native architecture  • Setting up the self-service cloud infrastructure to automate the application deployment and to keep all configurations same from Dev through PROD environment.  • Migrating the existed API's into Spring Boot, Spring Data and Spring Cloud technologies.  • Expertise in using Angular JS directives, Controllers, Filters, Services, Templets, Events and Injectors.  • Developed front-end code with Ajax call in Angular JS and jQuery to retrieve data as JSON Object from controllers in back-end RESTful Server, then display the well-organized result in web pages by writing Angular JS controller, directives, services, and route providers. Also used Angular.js filter to make the data searchable and sortable.  • Developed project using Mongo DB, Express JS, Angular 2, Node JS, Typescript, HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap.  • Used Bootstrap and Angular JS, React.jsandNode.js in effective web design.  • Responsible for creating web-based applications using React JS, Node.js, and Redux workflow.  • Used JPA ( Java Persistence API) with Hibernate as Persistence provider for Object Relational mapping.  • Used Spring Web MVC framework for the applying MVC Implementation to the web application.  • Worked on creating the Kubernetes cluster and setup the Pod configurations.  • Created the docker images and deployed them into the Kubernetes cluster and create the multiple replicas to handle the workloads.  • Helped in automate the Kubernetes container orchestration by developing multiple CI/CD scripts.  • Release Support- Managing Release deployments to lower Environments in terms of software deliveries and overnight activates.  • Developed story/task by following TDD/BDD and Pair programming concepts. Providing daily status in scrum meetings with the client.  • Supporting production defects  • Experience with static code analyzers like Sonar.  • Utilized Agile process to streamline development process with iterative development.  • Experience in using Chrome Developer Tools and Firebug for debugging and troubleshooting the code.  • Developed SQL queries to access data in Oracle database.  • Wrote Junit test cases for Java Application  • Used Liquibase with Maven and Eclipse for deployment of database.  • Extensively used the repositories like GIT and SVN.    Environment: Java, HTML, CSS, jQuery, JSP, AJAX, Java Script, JUnit, GIT, Maven, Eclipse, Apache Tomcat, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Data, Soap and Restful webservices, Angular JS, Tomcat, Oracle 11g, Mybatis. Java Developer Ameriprise Financial - Minnesota, MN, US June 2017 to March 2018 Description:we at Ameriprise Financial have stayed true to our mission: To help people feel confident about their financial future. During trying economic times our strength, integrity, our breadth of services and personal relationships have made us a longstanding leader in financial planning and advice.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the complete SDLC including thedesign of System Architecture, development of System Use Cases based on the functional requirements.  • Involved in Daily Scrum (Agile) meetings, Sprint planning and estimation of the tasks for the user stories, participated in retrospective and presenting Demo at end of the sprint.  • Designed and coded controller classes using J2SE that would talk to real hardware controller to access their states and gave the user control over the hardware through the multithreaded UI.  • Used JSP, HTML5, CSS3,and JavaScript to construct the dynamic web pages (presentation Layer) for the application.  • Used Spring Boot framework for building cloud Micro Services and to develop Spring-based application radically faster with very less configuration.  • Used AngularJS 4.0 and Backbone.JS for client-side validation.  • Wrote SQL stored procedures and views, Reviewed normalized/Denormalized schemas for effective and optimum performance tuning queries and data validation in OLTP environments.  • Created Single page application using Backbone.JS and Node.JS to handle thedata flow.  • Used JavaScript latest version of libraries based on running in the Node.js environment.  • Analyzed the Maven dependency management in thebase code to annotate the dependencies on to Spring Boot application into Gradle for Micro Services.  • Implemented API controllers (SOAP and REST) and web services client classes to interact with downstream systems.  • Deployed and Monitored Micro Services Using Pivotal Cloud Foundry, also Managed Domains and Routes with the Cloud Foundry.  • Worked with core Java technologies like Multi-Threading and synchronization.  • Working with CI/CD Principles According to Organizational Standards.  • Monitoring and Documenting Important Metrics (Number of deployments, Number of releases in a month, Failures in CI/Release Pipeline, Code Coverage, Bugs/Defects/Issues in Production, Number of code check-in pushes)  • Integrating SonarQubeIn the CI Pipeline for Coverage reports and Sonar Metrics.  • Implemented RESTful Web services to retrieve data from client side and made REST API calls from Angular JS and parsed the data to project to theclient and handled the security and Authorization using Spring Security and OAuth.  • Followed Test Driven Development (TDD) during the entire development phase.  • Worked withPython to determine optimal business logic implementations, applying best design patters.  • Worked with TERADATA, Fast Export, Fast Load, Multi Load to export and load data to/from different source systems including flat files.  • Developed Business objects using POJOs and data access layer using Hibernate framework.  • Responsible for maintaining and expanding AWS (Cloud Services) infrastructure using AWS Stack especially worked with database setup and maintenance on AWS EC2.  • Achieved Dependency injection by creating Spring services, Spring controllers and DAOs to wire objects of business classes.  • Implemented DAO pattern to fetch data from database using Hibernate to carry out various database operations and avoid redundant database access statements.  • Used Hibernate Transaction Management, Spring/Hibernate Batch Transactions and Hibernate cache concepts.  • Designed and developed Microservices business components using Spring Cloud.  • Used Spring Data Framework to use the features of Spring JDBC and Spring ORM classes like JDBC Template and Hibernate Template to perform the database operations by connecting to Data sources available.  • Developed user interface as JSF, prime faces, HTML and CSS and BOOTSTRAP with custom tag libraries using JSF Framework.  • Used Microservices to communicate using synchronous protocols HTTP and REST.  • Implementing or exposing the Microservices based on RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Developed and used REST web services for the reporting framework.  • Focused on Test Driven Development thereby creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality before writing the functionality.  • Developed build and deployment scripts using MAVEN as build tools in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments.  • Used MongoDB as data storage and utilized aspects like replica sets, Sharding,and clever document design to make service extensible scale and feature wise.  • Used JIRA ticketing system to keep track of issues and tasks on individuals.  • Used GITHUB as version control tool.    Environment: JAVA, J2SE, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Ajax, AngularJS 4, Bootstrap, Node JS, JSON, J2EE, Spring Framework 4.2.0, Spring MVC 4.2, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Data (Spring JDBC, Spring ORM), JSP2.0, Hibernate 4.0, Web services, RESTful, RAD, WebSphere, SonarQube, Agile/Scrum Methodology, Maven, JIRA, JBoss, JUnit, TDD, MongoDB, Micro Services, GITHUB. Java Developer Visa - Houston, TX October 2016 to May 2017 Description: Visa Inc. (also known as Visa, stylized as VISA) is an American multinational financial services corporation headquartered in Foster City, California, United States. It facilitates electronic funds transfers throughout the world, most commonly through Visa-branded credit cards, gift cards, and debit cards.    Responsibilities:  • Gathered user requirements, analyzed and wrote functional and technical specifications, we use SharePoint to maintain all our design docs.  • Followed Agile software methodology for software development (3-week Sprint)  • Worked on one of the UI based application and client focus more onthelook and feel of the UI. We use lots of customs components to design the UI. Chase standards and HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, AngularJs is being used intensively.  • Used Spring MVC framework on the server side for creating RESTful services by giving JSON out and modifying the DOM object on UI, by making HTTP calls and used GET and PUT.  • Implemented Core - Java concepts like Inheritance, Polymorphism, Abstraction,and Encapsulation.  • Created multiple mid-tier services to interact with multiple validations and worked on entitlements services to do user validations Interaction and worked on applying security systems.  • Worked with Oracle database and used Hibernate (ORM). Created POJO/Data  • Objects in mid-tier service. Hands on experience in implementing lazy loading, first and second level of caching.  • Understanding Business Coordinating withtheOffshore team in India and being flexible on gathering updated fromtheteam. Work closely with Database team and testing team.  • Involved inthediscussion of Data Model design for complex logic.  • Worked on Jasper reports using iReport tool and integrated that JRXML into spring framework.  • Developed Micro Services using Spring BOOT in various frame works to develop Spring Cloud for distributed systems and used for building or deploying and Spring Security for authorization and authentication support.  • Developed batch processes to perform the daily updates using Spring Batch module.  • Wrote SQL commands and Stored Procedures to retrieve data from Oracle database. Worked to plug this procedure in Java classes.  • Developed the application using Singleton, Business Delegate,and Data Transfer Object design patterns in the project.  • Integrated and developed UI components with business components. Worked on UI components and have worked intensively on HTML, CSS, AJAX, JAVASCRIPT. Also used IE/Firefox to debug and analyze the UI code. Interact with business on daily scrum and show them our daily progress on UI designs.  • Developed Middleware Technologies like security authentication, transactionmanagement, application servers and web servers.  • Created Stored procedures using PL-SQL for data modification (For insert, update, delete) in Oracle by joining business tables.  • We are using crucible while we commit code into SVN for reviewing the code.  • Worked on spring integration for loading files inthedatabase and worked on modifying stored procs. Used Unix commands to connect to servers and using PUTTY run the batches  • Written JUnit test cases during the development phase and used assert functions to compare two objects.  • Worked on Cucumber for Shift left testing.  • Written feature files and step Definitions. Expertise in writing cucumber feature file and debugging, setting the Data objects by preparing the values  • Used log4j for logging and SVN for version control.  • Configured and deployedaweb application in WebLogic Server.  • Created SOAP-based web services also consumed other services  • Used JIRA for bug and issue tracking.  • Good experience in documentation of designs and flow charts. Also worked on designing DATA Models and maintain the existing documents in share-point.  • Worked on Oracle coherence for clustered applications.    Environment: Java (JDK1.6 & 1.7), JEE, Spring (IOC, AOP, Batch), RESTful web services, Hibernate, Eclipse, Oracle 10g, WebLogic 10.1, UML, XSLT, HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, JavaScript, Ajax, Log4j, Jenkins, CVS, Maven 2.0, Tomcat 7.0, SOAP, Spring Integration, SVN, Scrum Methodology, EJB 2.0, iReport, SOAP, Jenkins, Crucible, Spring integration, JBoss, Unix, XML, WSDL, TDD. Java Developer JPMorgan & Chase - Dallas, TX August 2015 to September 2016 Description: J.P. Morgan is a global leader in financial services, offering solutions to the world's most important corporations, governments and institutions in more than 100 countries. The Firm and its Foundation give approximately US$200 million annually to nonprofit organizations around the world. We also lead volunteer service activities for employees in local communities by utilizing our many resources, including those that stem from access to capital, economies of scale, global reach and expertise.    Responsibilities:  • Developed and Implemented Web Services and used Spring Framework.  • Used the lightweight container of the Spring Framework to provide architectural flexibility for inversion ofthecontroller (IOC)  • Implemented the caching mechanism in Hibernate to load data from Oracle database.  • Implemented application level persistence using Hibernate and Spring.  • Used prototype javascript library for front-end validations.  • Implemented Persistence layer using Hibernate to interact with the Oracle database, Used Hibernate Framework for object-relational mapping and persistence.  • Developed Servlets and JSPs based on MVC pattern using Struts framework and Spring Framework.  • Write and tests Web Services calls manually and through automation.  • Test Automation Framework for QTP8.2/9.5 automation.  • Taken Care of Multithreading in backend java beans.  • Developed Angular4 with Email validation and animation.  • Used EXTJS 4.0Javascript Framework.  • Maintained JIRA for tracking and updating project defects and tasks  • Exposed various capabilities as Web Services using SOAP/WSDL13.  • Used JavaScript, Prototype, JSF and AJAX to support the functionalities of the front end.  • Responsible for analyzing various cross-functional, multi-platform applications systems enforcing, best practices and provide guidance in making long-term architectural design decisions.  • Responsible for build and release the code fromtheClear case, Subversion and Perforce.  • Utilized HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and AJAX for client-side developments and validations. Designed and developed Using Performance Engineering.  • Used AJAX (Asynchronous Java API for XML) for better performance.  • Applied model-view-controller design pattern using JavaBeans, Swing and conducted simultaneous queries and retrievals using Java multithreading techniques.  • Developed Middleware Technologies like security authentication, transaction management, application servers and web servers  • Wrote GWT code to create presentation layer using GWT widgets and event handlers.  • Created all the services to work with the various entities provided and rectified the services using REST APIs.  • Developed GUI using JSP, Struts, HTML3, CSS3, XHTML, Swing and JavaScript to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Simulated a vending machine using the Java Swing API.  • Developed UI screens using YUI, CSS, FLEX,andjQuery.  • Developed user interfaces using JSP, framework with AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, and CSS.  • Resolved update, merge and password authentication issues in Bamboo and JIRA  • Involved in the creation ofaninterface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using JS.  • Developed Web-based Dynamic Form Builder using DHTML, JavaScript Object-to-XML.  • Designed and developed the UI using Struts view component, JSP, HTML, CSS,and JavaScript.  • Executed automated Selenium scripts and reproduced failures manually.    Environment: Java 1.5, J2EE, Spring Framework, Soap, Hibernate, HTML 4.x, CSS2.x, JavaScript, Angular4, Adobe CQ, JQUERY, Junit, AJAX, JSON, XML, YUI, APACHE TOMCAT server, Multithreading, Angular JS framework, SOAP UI, REST web services, spring web flow, Bootstrap, Spring JP Java Developer Gain sight - Hyderabad, Telangana February 2013 to March 2015 Description: Gain sight is the leading customer success management company, it empowers the Customer Success movement to drive revenue and increase retention and helps companies to monitor customer satisfaction. I was part of development team of Administration of the Gain sight application where all the settings like customers, notifications, surveys, emails etc. done.    Responsibilities:  • Created Class diagrams and Use Case diagrams from design spec using Rational Rose. Implementation of J2EE Design Patterns like Singleton, Session Facade, Business Delegate, and Data Access Objects.  • Actively involved inthedesign of the application architecture in lines of their own Framework based on MVC2 Architecture with JSP Front End (HTTP Request/Response Integration) as View, Servlet as Controller and combination of EJBs and Java classes as Model.  • Designed and developed presentation layer using JSP which acts as View in a distributed MVC architecture, which involves model components and controller components.  • Used Entity Beans to manage the transactions with the database to deliver the content to the presentation layer and to store the data into the data layer.  • Wrote complex SQL queries and programmed stored procedures, packages,and triggers.  • Involved intheconfiguration of Spring MVC and Integration with Hibernate.  • Used Spring MVC framework for design and development of web application  • Used Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping and Persistence.  • Designed and developed business tier using EJBs. Used Session Beans to encapsulate the Business Logic.  • Developed XML and XSLT pages to store and present data to the user using parsers.  • Involved in configuration and deployment oftheapplication on WebLogic Application Server. Used CVS as Version Control System performed Module and Unit Level Testing with JUnit and log4j.  • Used Apache Ant for building the application. Gained a good knowledge of browser compatibility issues and their solutions. Executed and coordinated the installation of the project.  • Worked on web-based reporting system with HTML, JavaScript,and JSP.  • Involved in Maintenance and Enhancement of the project.    Environment: Java 1.5/1.6, J2SE, J2EE, JSP 2.0, Servlets, Struts 1.1, JDBC, XML, JavaScript, HTML, XSLT, Firebug, Lotus Notes 8.5, Putty, Toad for Oracle 10g, WebSphere Application Server 6.0, RAD 7.0, JAXP, Toad Data Modeler 3.4, ANT Education Bachelor's Skills Java (5 years), Junit (5 years), Model view controller (5 years), model-view-controller (5 years), Mvc (5 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages Java 8 (JDK 1.4/1.5/1.6/1.7/1.8), Java Swings, JSF, JUnit, Log4J, Ant, Maven, Python, Ruby on Rails.  Methodologies/Design patterns OOAD, OOP, UML, MVC, DAO, Factory pattern, Session Façade, Singleton, Agile, Scrum, Test Driven Development.  Web Technologies  JSP, Servlets, AngularJs, jQuery, angular2/4/5, React.JS, Node.JS, EJB, Hibernate, Struts, Spring, JDBC, HTML5, DHTML and XML, CSS3, Web Services, WSDL, SOAP, MQ Series, Apache Camel, Kafka, Spring Boot, Express.js.    Web Services SOAP, RESTful Web Services  Frameworks Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Web Flow, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Groovy.  Application/Web Servers JBoss, Glassfish 2.1, WebLogic, Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat Server.  IDE Tools Eclipse (Juno, Galileo, Helios, Indigo), Rational Application Developer (RAD) and NetBeans, STS.  Databases Oracle 11g, MySQL, SQL, TERADATA,MongoDB.  Reporting Tools Crystal Reports, BO XI R3.  Cloud AWS.  Version Control Tools CVS, SVN, Clear Case, Git.  Testing Selenium, Karma.  Tools  Rational Rose 2000, JBuilder 3.5/5.0, Visual Cafe 4.0, Visual Age Java 3.5, eclipse 3.X, MS-Office, Front Page, Ultra Edit 32, Clear Case, iReport -1.2.5.    Operating System Windows, Linux, Unix, Mac, Solaris.