Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - JPMorgan Chase Chicago, IL • Over 8+ years of IT experience in design, development, testing, maintenance and documentation of Enterprise applications using various technologies with diverse set of client's analyzing complex business requirements & mapping them to system specifications.  • Extensive experiences in web based multi-tier enterprise applications & Client / Server Applications using Java/J2EE technologies & have good exposure in Model View Controller (MVC) Architecture based applications using Spring Framework 3.2.2 and Struts Framework 2.3.12 with expertise in presentation, business and database layers.  • Hands on experience in developing web application using Spring Framework web module and integration with Struts MVC framework.  • Configuration of application classes in Spring configuration file.  • Experience in using Spring ORM module and integration with Hibernate ORM framework.  • Experienced in developing SOAP and Restful web services using JAX-WS and JAX-RS.  • Experience in developing applications using waterfall and Agile methodologies.  • Expertise in developing rich GUI interfaces using HTML, JavaScript, JSP and Servlets.  • Experience in writing applications using Java/J2EE& related technologies such as Hibernate3, EJB3, Struts, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, SWING, Java Beans, XML, XSL, Node Js ,HTML, SQL, PL/SQL middleware technologies such as Web Services, SOAP and WSDL.  • Extensive use of Open Source Software such as Web/Application Servers like JBoss 6/7, Apache Tomcat 6.0 and Apache Struts, LOG4J for logging information and exceptions, Apache ANT1.9 for making build scripts, VSS, SVN,Clear Case for version control system, Eclipse 3.x, Net Beans 6.x IDE.  • Extensive experience in Struts Tag Libraries and Custom-tag implementations in JSP to embedded business logic.  • Experience on Java Multi-Threading, Collection, Interfaces, Synchronization, and Exception Handling.  • Good experience in writing SQL & PL/SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers and data connectivity and data integration of Oracle.  • Created stored procedures to execute group of SQL statements for Cognos report generation  • Hands on experience in working on XML suite of technologies like XML, XSL, XSLT, DTD, XML Schema, SAX, DOM, JAXB.  • Worked with application servers and web servers such as Web Logic, Tomcat.  • Extensive development experience on different IDE's like Eclipse 3.2, 3.3, 3.5, My Eclipse 6.0 and NetBeans.  • Having experience with Cloud Computing environment like Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Experience in AWS Solutions using EC2, S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Dynamo DB and Auto Scaling Groups.  • Experience in application remote debugging using java debugger and Eclipse and used conditional breakpoint, exception breakpoint, logical structure and copy stack.  • Extensive experience in implementation of the version control software's like VSS and Clear Case.  • Developed Applications using Enterprise Layer, Business Logic Layer and Presentation Layer.  • Highly organized with the ability to prioritize work load, manage multiple projects and meet project deadlines by following project standards and procedures as per client specifications.  • Committed to enhancement of software reliability, performance and adherence to coding standards while contributing to the technical code documentation.  • Excellent analytical, problem solving, debugging & trouble shooting, communication & interpersonal skills with ability to perform independently and as part of a team.  • Experience in communicating with team members, discuss the designs and solutions to the problems.  • Expertise in writing JUnit test cases for different kind of applications and also development experience in mock object to simulate real objects. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer JPMorgan Chase - Chicago, IL November 2017 to Present Description: JPMorgan Chase & Co. is a leading global financial services firm and one of the largest banking institutions in the United States, with operations worldwide. I was responsible for creating Data Visualization development for the company's Finance division.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for the design and development of data loader and data exporter with file feed interface.  • Troubleshooting and debugging applications and providing fixes in a timely manner.  • Involved in SDLC stages of application including Requirements analysis, Implementation, Design and Testing.  • Extensively Used Spring MVC Framework for Controlling the Application.  • Extensively used Spring RESTful web services for designing the end points.  • Developed Web applications using Spring Core, Spring MVC, Ibatis, Apache, Tomcat, JSTL and spring tag libraries.  • Developed the web interface using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, and Bootstrap  • Used Ant to build and package the application.  • Used XML for data loading and reading from different sources.  • Enhance and modify the presentation layer and GUI framework that are written using JSP and client-side validations done using JavaScript & design enhanced wireframe screens.  • Deployed the Application on Tomcat server.  • Used eclipse as IDE to write the code and debug application using separate log files.  • Wrote unit and system test cases for modified processes and Continuous Integration with the help of QC team and Configuration team on timely manner.  • Successfully involved in test driven development model using JUnit.  • Used Clear Quest 7.0 as the bug reporting tool and Clear Case for version control.  • Applied Multithreading on data export to reduce process time.  • Working with management to estimate the level of effort, resource needs and task duration  • To develop & modified the Technical documents as per company standard process prototype.  • Participated in the daily stand up SCRUM agile meetings as part of AGILE process for reporting the day to day developments of the work done.  • Developed GIT controls to track and maintain the different version of the project    Environment: Java 1.5, J2EE, JSP/Servlets, Struts2.3.12, Spring Framework3.2.2, MongoDB, Hibernate3, Oracle 11g, SQL Developer, Web Services, XML, GIT, AJAX, GIT, jQuery , Eclipse, WebLogic 10.0 Application Server, Dimensions, Log4J, ANT1.9, HTML, SOA tool, bus tester. Java Developer Rockwell Automation - San Jose, CA January 2015 to November 2017 Description: Rockwell Automation, the world's largest company dedicated to industrial automation and information, makes its customers more productive and the world more sustainable.    Responsibilities:  • Participating in user requirement sessions to gather business requirements and technical walk through.  • Involved in requirements Analysis, Design, Development, Integration and testing of application modules.  • Involved in debugging and troubleshooting the bugs and resolved those issues.  • Deployed applications on JBoss Application Server.  • Developed Hibernate POJO Classes, Hibernate Configuration file and Hibernate Mapping files.  • Experience on Unit and Functional testing and coding with Junit framework.  • Utilized Model-View-Presenter (MVP) design pattern, decoupling view and presenter in front-end development.  • Used SVN as version control tools to maintain the code repository and Tortoise SVN client for execution.  • Extensively worked on core Java concepts for backend coding which involves Collection API and multithreads.  • Developed all the UI pages using HTML5, CSS3, JSON, JavaScript, Bootstrap and Node JS.  • Implemented a Single Page Web Applications (SPA) based front end for displaying user requests, user records history and security settings various users using JavaScript and Angular JS.  • AJAX is used to get the data from the server asynchronously by using JSON/XML object.  • Used the Node JS with Flux Frameworks in the development of the web applications.  • Implemented a Node JS server to manage authentication.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency injection, Spring MVC for RESTAPI's and Spring Boot for microservices.  • Implemented the project using the Vaadin Framework.  • Designed and developed base framework classes, common re-usable components.  • Used MAVEN to define the dependencies and build the application and used JUnit for suite execution and Assertions.  • Hands on experience in creating Docker containers and images and deployed the code using docker and AWS Services  • Created Jenkins job to trigger Cloud Formation scripts and deploy jar/ear file in AWS EC2 instance by triggering Ansible playbook from a Jenkins Job.  • Expertise in Back-end/server side java technologies such as: Web services, Java persistence API (JPA), Java. Messaging Service (JMS), Rabbit MQ, Java Database Connectivity (JDBC), Java Naming and Directory Interface (JND).  • Architecture with JSP as View, Servlet as Controller and combination of EJBs and Java classes as Model. Used Struts2, JSTL, Struts-el, Tag Libraries.  • Communicating with production, QA teams for support.  • Involved in Bug fixing and closing tickets raised by QA team.  • Experience working on writing SQL Queries and SQL server 2008/2012.  • Experience working with defect tracking tool JIRA.  • Good knowledge about Agile and Waterfall methodologies.    Environment: JDK 1.8, JSP, JBoss 7, Unit Testing, JDBC, XML, DOM, SAX, SVN, HTML DHTML, JNDI, Restful Web Services, Node JS, HTML 5, CSS, Micro services, Spring Boot, Soap UI, Groovy, Grails, AWS, PII Data, Jenkins, JUNIT, SQL, DHTML, SQL Server, PL/SQL Developer, Log4j, ANT, JIRA J2EE/ Java Developer Houston, TX March 2012 to December 2014 Description: AIG's experts deliver creative solutions to clients in more than 100 countries and jurisdictions. In fact, 99 percent of the Fortune 500 and 89 percent of the Fortune Global 500 turn to AIG for coverage and count on the expertise of 4,500+ claims adjusters who process more than 4 million claims a year commercial client and worked on use of enhanced claim reporting website. Report claim in minutes or get live technical support available through the site. Enhanced site features also include: Smart system questions: The website guides you through questions that gather only relevant information, streamlining the reporting process and saving you time.  Claim status indicator: Find out immediately when an AIG adjuster is assigned to your claim and when your claim has been processed and closed. Document attachment capabilities: Upload and add documents that support your claim throughout the process.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzed client requirements by interacting with various business divisions and consolidated the SRS (Software Requirements Specification) Document.  • Used mongodb to store claims data to do data analysis and generate reports which are helpful for organization to monitor and analyze the claims trend  • Involved in Software Development Life cycle starting from requirements gathering and performed OOA and OOD.  • Designed and created components for company's object framework using best practices and design Patterns such as Model-View-Controller (MVC).  • Worked on Spring modules like Dependency Injection (DI) and Aspect Oriented Programming (AOP).  • Spring AOP is used for logging, auditing, and security and transaction management to distinguish business logic from the crosscutting concerns.  • Used XML to read the data of current order details from the repository.  • Involved in the Analysis and Design of the front-end and middle tier using JSP, Servlets and Ajax.  • Implemented Database accesses through JDBC at Server end with Oracle as backend.  • The business logic was developed using J2EE framework (Spring MVC) and deployed components on Web sphere Application server.  • Finalize the functionalities and wireframes with Business Analyst  • Design and Development of Contract, Billing and Shipping functionalities  • Independent and System testing, deployment, Release management  • Used JUNIT to perform unit and system testing as per the test plans.  • Code refactoring and localization of the complete system    Environment: Java, Scala, Slick, JSP, Servlets, Web sphere, Mongodb, Oracle 9i, Spring MVC, Ant, CSS, Adobe/Flex, HTML, GIT, Log4J, VSS, MySQL, ClearQuest, Unix, JSON, JUNIT. Java Developer BHEL - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2010 to March 2012 Description: BHEL products is due to adherence to international standards by acquiring and adapting some of the best technologies from leading companies in the world including General Electric Company, Alstom SA, Siemens AG and Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd., together with technologies developed in its own R&D centres. Most of its manufacturing units and other entities have been accredited to Quality Management Systems (ISO 9001:2008), Environmental Management Systems (ISO 14001:2004) and Occupational Health & Safety Management Systems (OHSAS 18001:2007).  Responsibilities:  • Modeled UML 2.x (Class Diagrams and sequence Diagrams) using Rational Rose.  • Implemented different Design patterns like DTO, DAO, Service Locator Pattern, Singleton Pattern and MVC architectural design pattern for solving the architectural issues.  • Involved in the design of Relational Database Schema with Entity Relationship diagrams  • Analysis, design and development of Application based on J2EE and Design Patterns.  • Developed Application using an enhanced framework based on Apache Struts.  • Used JDBC for database connectivity with the application.  • Developed some of the presentation layer interfaces, JSP's and Java Beans.  • Client side Data Validations are performed using JavaScript.  • Used JSTL and custom tag libraries in place of Scriptlets.  • Extensively used XML and XSLT style sheets.  • Implemented the application and bug fixes in production environment.  • Created Tables and SQL Queries to insert and fetch the data from the database.  • Developed Enterprise Java Beans (Session Beans) to perform middle ware services and interact with DAO layer to perform database operations like update, retrieve, insert and delete.  • Involved in writing the ANT scripts for automating the process of building, testing and deploying the system.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4J and fixed the problems.  • Developed the test cases using Junit to test.  • Used Microsoft Visual SourceSafe (VSS) to check out project and maintain various versions of the project.    Environment: J2EE, Struts, Servlets, spring, EJB, AJAX, HTML, CSS, XML, Ant, JavaScript, Oracle 10G, Eclipse 3.0, VSS, WebSphere 5.x, Log4J. Education Bachelors in Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills HTML (8 years), JAVA (8 years), JUNIT (8 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (8 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (8 years), Java 1.5, J2EE, JSP/Servlets, Struts2.3.12, Spring Framework3.2.2, MongoDB, Hibernate3, Oracle 11g, SQL Developer, Web Services, XML, GIT, AJAX, GIT, jQuery ,Eclipse, WebLogic 10.0 Application Server, Dimensions, Log4J, ANT1.9, HTML, SOA tool, bus tester. (8 years) Additional Information Technical Summary:  Programming Languages: Java, J2EE, HTML5, PL/SQL.  Java Technologies: Collections, Multithreading, AWT, Exception Handling  J2EE Technologies: JSP, Servlets , Applet, JDBC, Java Beans, Tag Libraries, Groovy  Web Servers: Apache-Tomcat 5.x/6.x  Application Servers: Web Logic ,Tomcat, JBoss.  Markup & Scripting Lang: Java Script, HTML 5.  Framework: Spring 3.2.2, Struts 2.3.12, Spring MVC,Vaadin, Spring Core,JMS  GUI and Proto type Tools: AWT, JSP, CSS  IDE/Tools: Eclipse,RAD, Net Beans, Intelli J,Visual Studio, ANT,JIRA.  XML Technologies: XML, XSL, DTD/Schema, DOM/SAX API, JAXB.  Databases and Tools: Oracle MYSQL, SQL Server, MS Access, ORM Tool Hibernate 3.0.  Web Service Technologies: Web Services JAX-WS, JAX-RS, Apache CXF, SOAP, RESTful.  Testing / Bug Fix Tools: JUNIT, Clear Quest.    Operating Systems: Windows, UNIX, Linux.  Design Methodology/Tools: UML, Object Oriented Analysis and Design, J2EE Design Patterns.  Deployment & Build Tool: Apache Ant 1.9, Apache Maven 2.2.1  Source/Version: Control Dimensions, ClearCase, SVN,GIT,VSS.  Documentation Tool: Microsoft Word 2007, Microsoft Visio, Open Office.  Cloud Technologies: AWS, EC2, S3.