Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - Marlabs Inc Topeka, KS • Experienced Software Engineer and outstanding Fullstack Java Developer in all phases of development including  end-to-end implementation of project which includes Analysis, Design, Developemnt, Testing and Maintenance  in domains of Insurance, E-commerce and Hospitality Industry.  • Experienced in implementing various design patterns such as MVC, Factory, Singleton, DAO in the development  of Multi-Tier distributed Enterprise Applications.  • Specialized in J2EE technologies such as Servlet 4.0, JSP 2.3, JMS 2.0, JPA 2.2 and JDBC 4.3.  • Strong hands-on experience with developing and designing web application based on Spring 5 including Spring  MVC, Spring Security, Spring IoC, Spring AOP, Spring Boot, Spring Data and Spring Cloud with much  extensive practice in configuration, integration and implementation.  • Experienced in Spring Boot for developing Microservices and took advantage of REST to operate resources  from client-side using Microservice architecture.  • Strong knowledge and experience in XML and XML parsers, SOAP-based Web Services, RESTful Web  Services, UML.  • Extensive experience in Database design and development which involves ER Modelling, Relational Database  Schema, writing queries using SQL.  • Strong hands-on experience in RDBMS (MySQL 8, Oracle 12c, Postgres SQL 9) and non-relational NoSQL  databases (MongoDB 4, Neo4j 3).  • Knowledge and experience in ORM with Hibernate as data persistence layer including HQL and Criteria.  • Proficient in various messaging systems such as JMS, Apache ActiveMQ 5, and distributed streaming broker  Apache Kafka 2.2.  • Experienced in building applications on Application/Web Servers like Apache Tomcat 8.5, JBoss 4, and  WebLogic 12.  • Knowledge and experience in automating, configuring and delploying instances on Amazon Web Services (AWS)  cloud environment, and familiar with products such as EC2, S3, Elastic Block Store, Elastic Beanstalk, AWS  Lambda, VPC, ELB, DynamoDB, Amazon RDS, Cloud Formation, CloudWatch, Amazon IAM, SES, SQS,  Security Groups, and SNS.  • Experienced in frontend web technologies such as HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Boostrap 4, Angular 8, and  jQuery 3.  • Proficient in integration tests for existing microservices using JUnit and Mockito.  • Extensively using Git for version controlling and used JIRA for bug and issue tracking.  • Experienced in implementing Docker containers to create images of the applications and dynamically provision  salves to Jenkins CI/CD pipelines.  • Experienced in Java build automation tools (Maven, Gradle).  • Familiar with various IDEs such as Eclipse, IntelliJ, and Visual Studio Code.  • Experienced in conversion of legacy information systems to ditrbuted and web-based architectures.  • Specialized in Data Structure and Algorithm and knowledge in writing clean and reusable code.  • Ability to learn and use new systems and paradigms in considerably less time, solid communicator with exceptional  team-building skills. Work Experience Full Stack Developer Marlabs Inc - Piscataway, NJ April 2019 to Present As a trusted hotel partner with more than three decades of industry experience, TravelClick offers innovative, cloud-based    Cell # 732-709-0220      and data-driven solutions that help hotels around the world to maximize revenue. The Hotel Booking System delivers a simple, intuitive and responsive user experience to guests. Bring back users who have abandoned the booking process with an inviting recapture and re-engagement experience that makes it easy for returning guests to complete the booking  process.    Responsibilities:  • Develop a Single Page Application using Angular 6 components, routing and service modules, along with TypeScript, HTML5, CSS3, and Bootstrap4.  • Consume REST services using Angular HTTP and perform various REST Http operations for data retrievals and updates.  • Use Spring Boot and Spring Cloud for developing Microservices and used REST to retrieve data from client side  using Microservice architecture.  • Develop the persistence layer using Hibernate framework along with MySQL database, create the POJO objects  and map using Hibernate annotations and Transaction Management.  • Implement Docker containers to create images of the applications and dynamically provision slaves to Jenkins  CI/CD pipelines.  • Used Log4j for debugging and logging errors, and implemented Test Driven Development (TDD) methodology.  • Use Git as version control to check in/out the code, create branches and tagged the code in Git.  Environment:  Java 8, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, Typescript, Angular 6, Bootstrap 4, REST, Spring 5, Spring Boot 2, Spring Cloud, Hibernate 5, MySQL 8, Tomcat 8.5, Maven, Docker, Jenkins, Log4j, Git, Intellij IDEA Full Stack Programmer E-commerce Website February 2018 to January 2019 Project Title: E-commerce Website    University Bookstore was initiated in-order to provide a novel way of purchasing experience for students. The Project designed and developed an E-Commerce website which includes end-to-end e-commerce functionalities such as user login, user  authentication, shopping cart, order placing, payments, order tracking, notifications, messaging, catalog, fulfillment and  inventory.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, design, development, testing and production of the application using Agile methodology.  • Developed the front-end featuring rich web interface implemented using Angular 4 framework along with HTML5, CSS3, Boostrap 3 and Typescript.  • Produced content pages with CSS3 layout and style markup presentations, also used TypeScript methods and properties.  • Designed and developed application using various modules in Spring Framework like Spring IoC, Spring Boot, Spring REST and Spring Security for.  • Design a sound table relationships in the database and created data model and generated Hibernate mappings  and Domain objects using Hibernate tools.  • Worked extensively with Hibernate Query Language (HQL) to store and retrieve the data from MySQL database.  • Implement Kafka as a distributed messaging system to handle the paradigm when the huge amount of order  requests coming into the server.  • Utilized Spring Cloud for Microservices, deployed on AWS, and used Docker as the container.  • Configured MySQL databse on cloud using AWS RDS and implemented Triggers, Views and Stored Procedures  on database.  • Worked with GIS specialists and integrated application with Google API Services like Google Maps, Test Lab and Authentication.  • Used Maven as a dependency management tool and IntelliJ IDEA for application development.  • Developed test cases using JUnit with Mockito for every module in project for Test Driven Development approach.  • Committed code changes into repository using version control tool Git.  • Used Defect Management tool JIRA for issue/bug tracking and monitoring of work assignments in the system.  • Helped new team members to get trained in tools and languages which were required for this project.    Environment:  Java 8, J2EE, Angular 4, HTML5, CSS3, TypeScript, Bootstrap 3, Spring 5, Spring IoC, Spring Boot 2, Spring REST, Spring Security, Hibernate 5, MySQL 5, Kafka 2.2, Spring Cloud, Microservice, AWS, IntelliJ IDEA, JUnit, Mockito, Git,  JIRA Full Stack Software Engineer October 2016 to April 2017 Project Title: Hospital Management Application    Hospital Management Application dealt with the Appointment Scheduling, Sending Reminders to patients and Prescription  Generation as important modules. It is a web application based on Spring MVC with patients and hospital personnels.    Responsibilities:  • Built presentation layer based on AngularJS using JavaScript, HTML, Bootstrap, jQuery and CSS.  • Transitioned the project from AngularJS to upgraded version Angular 2.  • Developed a Single Page Application (SPA), which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with servers using Angular2.  • Worked with Angular Routers, Forms, Modules, DOM, Events, Expressions, Controllers, Filters and Http  Request.  • Developed the Web application using MVC patterns with Spring Framework along with Dependency Injection, Spring IoC, and Spring Security for OAuth2.  • Consumed and produced RESTful Web Services using Spring REST.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection and used Apache Camel to integrate Spring  Framework.  • Used Hibernate as an ORM tool to communicate with MySQL to design and create the mapping class, sessions, and transactions.  • Used Java Message Service (JMS) API for developing message oriented middleware (MOM) layer for handling  various asynchronous requests.  • Responsible for building the project dependencies using Maven.  • Developed various JUnit test cases for unit testing and implemented Mock objects using EasyMock for reducing  dependency and complete isolation for unit testing.  • Used Git as a version control and used JIRA for bug management.  • Worked on Jenkins for creating several free style jobs and CI/CD pipelines jobs for automating the work flow.  • Used logging techniques provided by Log4j tool for efficient logging and debugging.    Environment:  Java 8, J2EE, AngularJS/2, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap 3, jQuery, Spring 4, Spring MVC, Spring IoC, Spring  Security, REST, Hibernate 5, MySQL 5, JMS, Maven, JUnit, EasyMock, JIRA, Git, Jenkins, Log4j Software Developer ENA Motors Inc April 2015 to June 2016 Project Title: Car Rental System    This project involved a entire system of booking cars and booking order management on the admin side. It keeps records of customer information and their ride details, sends automatic emails and SMS notification, create quotes, tracks payments and  other documents.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed application using Spring Framework modules like Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring  IOC and handled security using Spring Security.  • Inplemented Spring MVC model integration for front-end request action controller and Spring AOP for transaction  management.  • Developed REST web service to perform CRUD operations on the database using JAX-RS.  • Provided authentication and authorization by using OAuth 2.0 framework.  • Established Database Connectivity through JDBC, Hibernate ORM mapping for storing the data into database  tables using MySQL.  • Used Hibernate annotation to control data fetching and cascading type and batch size to improve the data access  performance.  • Enhanced user interfaces to enable the inputs of additional personal information and vehicle information to generate  the final order using HTML5, CSS3, jQuery and AngularJS.  • Used Amazon SNS and SQS to send notifications to the customers about their order status and to customers who  have subscribed for any promotional notifications.  • Migrated the MySQL database to Amazon RDS and configured the auto scaling groups, optimized volumes.  • Developed various JUnit test cases for unit testing and implemented Mock Objects using Easy Mock for reducing  dependency and complete isolation for unit testing.  • Used Git as versioning system. Involved in bug fixing for other modules.  • Used Maven as a build tool, used JIRA for bug tracking and used Eclipse to develop the application.    Environment:  Java 8, J2EE, Spring 4, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, REST, Hibernate 4, MySQL 5, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, AngularJS, AWS, JUnit, EasyMock, Git, Maven, JIRA Java Developer United Health Group July 2014 to February 2015 Project Title: Student Resources    United Health Group is one of the leading health Insurance Provider. The web portal application is developed especially for students as customers and its designed at various milestones starting from quote, new business, amendment, claim the policy and get feedback for the same.    Responsibilities:  • Used front end technologies like HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript to design user-friendly UI.  • Implemented Web Application using J2EE technologies such as JSP, Servlet, JSTL, Struts 2, JDBC and integrated with MySQL database.  • Designed and implemented SQL for JDBC prepared statements to retrieve and manage the data from database.  • Involved in analysis and design of the problem, ER data model and relational model.  • Deployed and tested the web application on WebLogic application server.  • Handled dependencies using build automation tool Maven.  • Developed test cases for unit testing using JUnit and used Jenkins for automated deployment.  • Followed Agile methodology for scheduling of the project and better team dynamics.  • Worked and delivered results in extreme programming practices such as Scrum to produce quality deliverables in time.  • Used Slack to communicate during daily work and while release days, and used Git as version control to check in the code, created branches and tagged the code in Git.    Environment:  Java 8, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, MySQL 5, WebLogic 12, Maven, JUnit, Jenkins, Git Education Master University of Southern California Bachelor University of Washington Skills ECLIPSE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, INTELLIJ IDEA, SPRING, TECHNICAL SKILLS: Languages UI/Web Technologies Java 8, JavaScript, JavaScript, HTML 5, CSS 3, Bootstrap 4, TypeScript, SQL, HQL, XML AngularJS, Angular 8, jQuery 3 Server Side Java EE Technologies Spring MVC , Spring Boot 2, JPA 2.2, Servlet 4.0, JDBC 4.3, Spring Cloud, Hibernate 5, Struts 2 JMS 2.0, JSP 2.3 Web Servers \ Databases Apache Tomcat 8.5, WebLogic 12, Oracle 12c, PostgreSQL 9, MySQL 8.0, AWS (EC2, S3, RDS) MongoDB 4, Neo4j 3 Design Pattern Cloud Technologies Factory, Singleton, DAO, MVC IAM, EC2, S3, Elastic Beanstalk, SNS, RDS, Cloud Watch, SQS Testing/Bug Tracking/Logging IDE JUnit, Mockito, Jira, Log4j, Postman Eclipse, IntelliJ IDEA, Visual Studio Code Version Control Continuous Integration/ Container Git, Subversion Jenkins, Docker Build Automation Methodologies Maven, Gradle Agile (TDD, Scrum), Waterfall (5 years)