JAVA/J2EE DEVELOPER <span class="hl">JAVA</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> JAVA/J2EE DEVELOPER - Tata Consultancy Services ? Around 8 years of extensive IT experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) which  includes developing, design, analysis, testing and Integration of various web based and client/server  applications in multi-platform environments with JAVA/J2EE technologies.  ? Experience in developing applications using Agile Methodology, Waterfall Methodology.  ? Proficient in developing the application by implementing the OOPS and Core Java Concepts like Collections,  Exception Handling and Multi-threading.  ? Experience in applying best practice Design Patterns and Strategies to enterprise applications to reduce tight  coupling, maximize performance, and reduce maintenance/extensibility risks.  ? Created and Configure Micro Service architecture and integrated with AngularJS application.  ? Implemented RESTful services with JAX-RS using Spring Boot and Micro Services Architecture.  ? Expertise in design with Use Case, Sequence diagrams, Activity diagrams, Class diagrams.  ? Expertise in Front-End UI technologies like HTML, CSS, JSON, AngularJS.  ? Proficient in developing the enterprise application with Servlets, Struts, Spring Framework modules like  Spring IOC, Spring MVC (Model View Controller and ORM Frameworks like Hibernate.  ? Excellent experience in developing RESTful Services and SOAP based Web Services.  ? Involved in designing the client-side module architecture based on new Angular Framework.  ? Expertise in XML technologies such as XSL, XSLT, XML schemas and parsers like SAX and DOM.  ? Experience in developing messaging module by using Spring JMS.  ? Good experience in working with various Relational databases like MS SQL Server, Oracle.  ? Used Spring Boot for developing Micro services, REST to retrieve data from client-side using Micro service  architecture.  ? Expertise at JDBC API for connection and access to databases.  ? Experience using Hibernate for mapping Java classes with database and using Criteria API and Hibernate  Query Language (HQL).  ? Good experience with Data Access Object (DAO) pattern to introduce an abstraction layer between the  Business logic tier (Business object) and the Persistent storage tier (data source).  ? Excellent in writing SQL Queries, PL/SQL Stored Procedures.  ? Expertise in writing test cases with JUnit to test the application functionalities.  ? Hands on experience with various Servers like Web Sphere, Jboss and Apache Tomcat.  ? Experience in development, deployment and troubleshooting applications on Windows, UNIX and Linux  platforms.  ? Hands on experience with build tools like ANT, Maven.  ? Extensive experience in using different IDE's like RAD, Eclipse and IntelliJ.  ? Experience in using various version control tools like SVN and Git.  ? Experience as a Production Support and technical support for complex/ critical applications and coordinated  with other teams to resolve end-user issues promptly.  ? Excellent written and verbal communication skills, Analytical, Problem Solving skills, strict attention to detail  and ability to work independently and cross functional team environments.  ? Good understanding of Business workflow, Business logic and Business methods for further implementation of  user requirement in a distributed application environment Work Experience JAVA/J2EE DEVELOPER Tata Consultancy Services - Montvale, NJ July 2015 to Present Description: The Western Union Company is a financial services and communications company based in the United States. Its North American headquarters is in Englewood, Colorado. Western Union has several divisions, with products such as person-to-person money transfer, money orders, business payments and commercial  services. Western Union's website, westernunion.com allows users to send and receive funds to others, pay bills, or purchase gift cards.    Responsibilities:  ? Analyze the business requirement produced by the business teams and to provide suggestions and    feedback on the business requirement that would fit the current system architecture    ? Participate in all the business and software requirement walkthroughs and provide technical ideas and    inputs to implement the solution    ? Design the solution of the project based on the business and software requirements gathered    ? Prepare a technical design document encompassing the prototypes of various components involved,    overall system architecture, interface layouts, batch requirements    ? Develop the project solution based on the design that was agreed by all project stakeholders  ? Resolve the defects and queries that arise during Quality Assurance and User acceptance testing by    providing appropriate fixes    ? Perform the promotion process of the developed and tested code into the production environment    Environment: Java/J2EE, Java Script, Spring Framework, Angular JS, Hibernate, XML, Web Services, Oracle, PL/SQL, HTML, XSLT, Jetty Application Server V6.1.19, WebSphere Application Server v7.0, Jboss Application JAVA/J2EE DEVELOPER Tata Consultancy Services - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2013 to July 2015 June 2013 - July 2015  Location: Hyderabad, India  Role: JAVA/J2EE DEVELOPER    Description: The Equity Accelerator program is an accelerated electronic mortgage payment schedule based on the consumer's pay period that results in interest savings and accelerated equity build-up in the home that allows for early mortgage pay-off.    Responsibilities:  ? System Enhancements (Preparation of Design and Implementation)    ? Requirements analysis for the requests and development tools    ? Development and testing of the applications    ? Co-ordinate and Partner with other stakeholders / technology teams during implementation    ? Drive the use of Best Practices, Standards and guidelines    ? Identify and exploit opportunities to deliver new solutions through technological advances within a specific technical domain    ? Status reports to be provided to Western Union on a weekly basis on the activities    ? Perform root cause analysis of Production problems, identify and implement permanent fix JAVA/J2EE DEVELOPER Tata Consultancy Services - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2012 to June 2013 Environment: HTML, XML, AJAX, Java, JSP, Struts, Unix Shell Scripting, Oracle, JavaScript, SVN, HP Quality Center  10.0, WIN SCP, putty, Toad, eclipse, Beyond Compare  Employer: Tata Consultancy Services  Client: American Express January 2012 - June 2013  Location: Hyderabad, India  Role: JAVA/J2EE DEVELOPER    Description: The project involved design, development and testing of the web application Pegasus, which allows the American Express internal users to maintain the data of the corporate clients, process their applications, assess  credit risk involved with the help of a third party credit authorization system, create the account hierarchy that  best suits the client's organizational structure and feed this data to a central repository from where other systems  use this data to issue corporate cards under this accounts.    Responsibilities:  ? Design of web pages using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Code development using RAD 7.5 tool.  ? Involved in writing test cases for Unit testing, SIT and UAT.  ? Kept track of change requests right from their inclusion to implementation.  ? Communicated all the relevant issues across on-site and offshore team members.  ? Learned and incorporated best practices followed by other teams.  ? Documented all the change requests received and tasks accomplished during the build phase and shared  the same with Clients.  ? Maintaining Versions of the Code using SVN tool  ? Identified and resolved the defects through Mercury Quality Center tool.    Environment: Java/J2EE, Struts 1.2, HTML, CSS, Java Script, JSP, XML and Web services, RAD 7.5, Quality Center Skills Eclipse, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jboss, jquery, Servlets, Struts, Git, Html, Javascript, Svn, Xml, Xsl, JSP, J2Ee, Rest, Java J2Ee Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Languages C, C++, Java, SQL and PL/SQL.  WEB Technologies HTML, CSS, Javascript, JQuery, Ajax, Angular JS.  XML Technologies XML, SAX, DOM, XSL, XSLT, XSD, DTD, XPath, WSDL and SOAP.  Tools & Framework Servlets, Struts, Spring IOC, Spring-MVC, Spring -ORM, Spring-AOP, Spring  Batch, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Hibernate.  Web Services SOAP, RESTful, UDDI, WSDL, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS JAX-WS and Micro Services  Architecture.  Web/App Servers Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat and JBOSS.  Database Oracle, My SQL Server.  Development Tools Eclipse, IntelliJ, RAD.  Version Control GIT, CVS, SVN.  Testing Tools/ Others JUnit, Soap UI, Putty, Win SCP.  OS & Environment Windows, UNIX and LINUX.