Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - Capital One Richmond, VA • Worked extensively with Java 8, Multithreading, Transaction Management, Exception Handling and Collections achieving features of functional languages thus ensuring the clarity for the other developers.  • Experience in frameworks like Spring MVC and Struts (MVC architecture, interceptors, action mappings and resource builders).  • Worked with various frameworks in spring such as Spring IOC, AOP, Spring transaction Management, Spring Data, Spring JDBC, Spring Batch, Spring Boot, Spring REST, Spring JTA, Spring IO Spring Cloud and Spring Security (Spring security, Site Minder).  • Solid experience with various web MVC monolithic frameworks such as JSF, Spring MVC and Struts.  • Developed and deployed Micro Services based applications using Spring Boot and Spring Cloud.  • Developed projects on SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) and Microservices Architecture with RESTful services (JAX-RS with Spring Boot, Spring MVC) and implemented SOAP (JAX-WS, Apache CXF, WADL, WSDL)  • Solid Experience with Java based ORM frameworks such as Hibernate, Spring Data and Ibatis.  • Proficient in using Spring Data JPA that helped in creating automatic Data Access Objects (DAOs) at the compile time.  • Worked with spring cloud config, Ribbon, Hystrix and Zuul API-Gateway in the spring cloud and Netflix Eureka service to provide weighted load balancing based on several factors like traffic, resource usage, authentication, monitoring services and routing.  • Extensive experience in Front-End UI technologies like HTML5, CSS3 (SASS, LESS), Bootstrap JS, DOM in developing dynamic and responsive web pages.  • Extensively used JavaScript/Typescript, Ajax, and JSON to build highly interactive web pages.  • Strong experience in developing Single Page Application (SPA) using MEAN (Mongo, Express, Angular and Node) stack.  • Developed numbers of Typescripts (ES6) objects including Components, ngModules, Providers, Services, Interfaces and classes utilizing arrow function and optional types  • Experienced in Various Angular 2.0/4.0, Backbone JS, Knockout JS, and Ext JS for rapid CRUD front-end app development and to achieve MVC design flow.  • Proficient in usingHapi.JS thatenabled to focus on writing reusable application logic with built-in support for input validation, caching, authentication, and other essential facilities for building web and services applications.  • Involved in developing a full-fledged REST API server with an open source NoSQL database that uses a document-oriented data model MongoDB and Mongoose connector.  • Proficient in using RDBMS concepts and worked with Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11i, SQL server, and good experience in writing stored procedures, functions and triggers using PL/SQL JDBC, ODBC and JNDI in WebLogic server.  • Excellent experience with Relational databases like MySQL, Oracle, SQL Server, DB2 and No SQL Databases like CouchDB and Cassandra.  • Good understanding of React JS and working with Redux / Flux architecture.  • Implemented security functionality for various projects using spring security and Site minder (SSO).  • Professional experience in Log4J for extensible logging, debugging and error tracing.  • Worked with NoSQL based ORM frameworks like Mongoose Connector and Cassandra Node Driver.  • Experience with build tools like Ant, Maven, and Gradle for building applications to different environments.  • Extensive hands on experience in setting up CD/CI pipelines using Jenkins, Bamboo and GoCD.  • Experience in using DevOps tools like Puppet, Chef and Docker.  • Good Knowledge in documentation of REST API's using Swagger 2 and WADL.  • Proficient in using client-side JavaScript build runners namely Bower, Grunt, Gulp and Web pack.  • Expertise in integration testing automation framework like Selenium automation using Selenium WebDriver, Selenium Grid.  • Proficient in writing unit tests for JavaScript based Applications using Karma, Jasmine, Mocha and Chai testing frameworks.  • Wrote comprehensive test cases and test plans using JUnit, TestNG, Spock and Mockito for Java based backend applications.  • Designed and created highly scalable, highly available, fault tolerant, highly secured, distributed infrastructure (IAAS) using AWS EC2 instances, S3, SQS, EBS, ELB, API Gateway, Route 53, CloudFront, Auto Scaling, Elastic Bean Stalk, IAM, ECS, VPC, Cloud Watch, Cloud Trial, RDS, SNS, SQS.  • Hands on experience in implementation of Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF) services such as Pivotal Application Service, Pivotal Container Service and Pivotal Functional Service.  • Authenticated Users accessing RESTful services using Oauth 2.0, OIDC and JWT (Json Web token)  • Experience in messaging queue services like JMS, IBM MQ. Rabbit MQ, Active MQ and Apache Kafka.  • Extensive experience in Deploying and Configuring Application & Web Servers such as Oracle WebLogic, IBM WebSphere, JBoss, Glassfish and Apache Tomcat.  • Worked with Log Monitoring tools like Splunk and ELK (Elastic Search, Kibana and Logstash).  • Worked with Drools to provide Business Rules Management System (BRMS) solution that provides a core Business Rules Engine.  • Proficient in applying design patterns like MVC, Object Orient Design, Singleton, Factory, Session Facade, Service Locator, Visitor, Observer, Decorator, Front Controller, Data Access Object.  • Used various version control software such as SVN, GIT, CVS, Big Bucket for maintaining code repositories. Work Experience Full Stack Developer Capital One - Richmond, VA October 2018 to Present Description: Capital One Financial Corporation isa bank holding company specializing in credit cards, auto loans, banking and savings accountsheadquartered in McLean, Virginia. Capital One is on a mission to change banking for good and to help people live their best lives. Together, we will build one of America's leading information-based technology companies.  Responsibilities:  • I have been working as a full stack developer for developing the Application Program Interface (APIs) using the Java1.8 as a language and Spring as a Framework.  • Actively involved in Analysis, Design, Development, System Testing and User Acceptance Testing. Followed Agile methodology in the Scrum Cycle model.  • Worked with Microservice architecture using Spring Boot to modularized code and implemented Rest API's using Spring Rest and integrated Swagger API for documentation  • Implemented Spring Circuit breaker pattern, integrated Hystrix dashboard to monitor Spring micro services.  • Designed and Implemented SPA (single page application) using Angular4 Module, Component, Template, Metadata, Data Binding, Directives and Dependency Injection.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using component-based architecture provided by Angular4. Creating generic service which have async capability and details description about observables.  • Optimized the performance of application using Angular 4 Lazy Loading and ahead of time compilation.  • Used @ngrx/store container to manage the application state and Reducers/Actions to manipulate the state and @ngrx/effects to load blogs to store in Angular 4.  • To allow fully encapsulate custom elements, created custom elements, HTML imports and Shadow Dom using Angular 4 and implemented Angular Router to enable navigation from one view to the next as user performs application task.  • Implemented the security APIs with access token along with Api key for external consumers.  • Extensive experience working with APIGEE policies of traffic Management, Security and Mediations.  • Involved in the implementation of JWT Token which is used across the enterprise for the authentication and authorization of the users who can access the program.  • Configured Docker container service and build pipe-line JenkinsCI/CD tool for continuous integrating and deploying application on servers.  • Performed configuration, deployment and support of cloud services including Amazon Web Services (AWS). Launch various AWS EC2 instance to deploy the application.  • Performed queuing services for the cloud data processing for certain tasks like file upload, data processing, notice to the On-Premise application using the AWS service SQS (AWS Queuing System).  • Used Kubernetes as a portable, extensible open-source platform for managing containerized workloads and services, that facilitates both declarative configuration and automation.  • Deployed and Monitored Micro Services Using Spring Cloud Foundry Managed Domains and Routes with the Spring Cloud Service Registry. Netflix OSS (spring cloud).  • Used Apache Kafka in cluster as messaging system between the API sand microservices and worked on Splunk search processing language (SPL) queries, reports, dashboard and logging using Log4J.  • Implemented Relational Data Base like Oracle and PL/SQL store procedures  • Implemented NoSQL database like Cassandra to (store key values), for data analytics which is used as a Database for project.  • Worked with Web pack for bundling application source code in convenient chunks and for loading that code from a server into a browser.  • For back end testing we used Junit and Mockito for unit testing and embedded databases like HSQL and function testing we use Spring MVC mock.  • Implemented unit test cases using Karma and Jasmine on client side.    Environment: Angular 4, Java 1.8, TypeScript, J2EE, XML, JSF, Hibernate, SQL,PL/SQL, Spring Boot, Oracle10g, XMI, CSS, Log4j, Subversion, JQuery, JBoss Application Server, Maven, Eclipse, RALLY, UNIX, Cassandra 3.0, AWS, S3, EC2, ECS, ECR, IAM, EBS, JUnit, TestNG. Full Stack Developer AutoZone Inc - Memphis, TN October 2017 to August 2018 Description: AutoZone, Inc. is an American retailer of automotive parts and accessories, the largest in the United States. AutoZone aims to develop a software application that reduces the  gap between the time taken to purchase an item in store to an online purchase, which accelerates the process of delivering an automotive part to the customer. Thus, achieves its  primary goal "customer satisfaction".    Responsibilities:  • Developed use cases, drawn sequence diagrams and class diagrams for the application and responsible for writing program and functional specifications.  • Involved in total Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Used a Microservice architecture, designed and developed RESTFUL web services using Spring Boot and Apache CXF framework.  • Deployed Spring Boot based micro-services Docker container using Amazon EC2 container services.  • Experience in integrating the internal security model into new projects with Spring Batch, Spring Micro-Services and Spring Boot, Pivotal Cloud Foundry and Netflix Eureka.  • Designing and developed Micro Services using Mongo DB, Express JS, React JS and Node Js.  • Used Redux Frame-work architecture (like Reducers, Containers, Saga) for integrating the data with React-Native Application and created and used Reducers that received said Actions to modify Store State Tree  • Developed the Drag and Drop functionality using React-Dragabble.  • Used React-Autocomplete for creating google maps location search on the webpage.  • Handled Http Requests using Axios which supports Promise API functionality native to JZ oracle.  • Developed responsive applications using Bootstrap.js, Require.js and Node.js, D3.js which allowed the same application to be optimized for both mobile and desktop resolutions.  • Created and consumed RESTful API using Express.js to provide centralized logic and reusable data retrieval build on top ofNode.js.  • Implemented Node.js router to make cross-domain requests to API services like GitHub API, MongoDB.  • Used Node.js to run Grunt tasks and compile, minify, concat and build the project properly.  • Worked with build tools like NPM, Bower and Grunt.  • Used continuous build using Jenkins and supported the Application for production deployment and post-production.  • Worked with the Pivotal Cloud Foundry services such as Pivotal Application Service, Pivotal Container Service and Pivotal Functional Service.  • Deployed our Application on Pivotal Cloud Foundry which is used to reduce the development overhead by providing a ready to use platform.  • Configured Docker container service and build pipe-line Jenkins CI/CD tool for continuous integrating and deploying application on servers.  • Implemented OAuth 2.0, Basic AUTH and API Key policies for API Security.  • Designed, Developed and maintained Postgre SQL Database architecture.  • Developed back end interfaces using SQL packages, stored procedures, Functions, Procedure, Anonymous SQL programs, Exception Handling in PL/SQL programs.  • Developed unit test cases using Mocha and Chai as unit test runner to test various React JS components.  • Worked on the Splunk architecture and various components (indexer, forwarder, search head, deployment server), Universal and Heavy forwarder.    Environment: React.js, Express.js, Node.js, Babel, Redux, Docker, Jenkins, Pivotal Cloud Foundry, Mongo DB 3.2, Mongoose Connector, Chai, Mocha, Log4j, MAVEN 3.0 Senior- Java Developer Charter Communication, Long Beach, CADuration October 2016 to September 2017 Description: Client is one of the Internet service providers in Aurora, The Spectrum Guide team  oversees the infrastructure and configuration management for Charter's largest application.  Our goal is to run applications through a repeatable, reliable and secure process.  Spectrum is a rebranding initiative, intended to create a consistent marketing message for the variety of residential and commercial offerings created when legacy Charter merged with Time  Warner Cable (TWC) and Bright house Networks (BHN). The Spectrum TV Application merges  several areas of IP-based development into one consumer-facing product and is the first step  towards unifying the protocols, software, systems, technologies and experiences from a customer perspective. The Spectrum TV App (STVA) Program is comprised of multiple projects and supported by multiple delivery teams from across Charter.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in SDLC requirements gathering, analysis, design, development and testing of application developed using Agile methodology for building Service Oriented Architecture (SOA)  • Involved in developing user interface with HTML, CSS3, SAAS, JSON.  • Created a custom responsive web application to replace a legacy line-of- business web application using Angular JS.  • Developing and designing SPA user interfaces in AngularJS. Worked on Front end by using AngularJS, JavaScript.  • Used Angular.js for connecting the API's using Angular.js $http service. Designed dynamic and multi- browser compatible pages using AngularJS and JavaScript.  • Utilized various JavaScript and jQuery libraries, AJAX for form validation and other interactive features.  • Used Spring MVC and Dependency Injection for handling presentation and business logic. Dependency Injection for managing the components and bean life cycle is achieved in the application using Spring IOC  • Integrated Spring DAO for data access using Hibernate and handled Transaction Management using the provided data. Responsible for designing Hibernate mapping files based on business logic and Object relationships.  • Used Hibernate as Persistence framework mapping the ORM objects to table using Hibernate annotations.  • Developed and consumed SOAP Web Services using JAX-WS and Apache CXF.  • Used Jersey to consume HTTP-based RESTful Web Services. Used Uniform Interface Concept of REST to build API.  • Responsible to write the different service classes and utility API, which will be used across the framework.  • Used Hibernate Transaction Management, Hibernate Batch Transactions, and Hibernate cache concepts.  • Configured Hibernate second level cache using EH Cache to reduce the number of hits to configuration table data.  • Using second level cache (EH Cache) store entities between sessions scope in the session factory to redundant database calls.  • Implemented the function to send and receive AMQP messages on Rabbit MQ synchronously and asynchronously and send JMS message to Apache Active MQ on the edge device.  • Configured EC2 instance and Route53 for DNS hosting on AWS for dev environment and used AJAX framework for server communication and seamless user experience.  • Worked on Proof of Concept for developing application using Node Js and Mongo DB.  • Used Require Js to improve speed and quality of the code and Log4j for the logging the output to the files.  • Created automation framework and test scripts using Selenium Web-Driver for multiple platforms and browsers testing.  Environment: JDK 1.8, Spring(DI, MVC, Transaction Management, AOP) JSP, JSP-EL, JSTL, Servlets, AWS, Oracle SOA, TOAD, HTML, CSS, XML, Angular JS, ESB, SOAP, REST, JAX-RS, Log4J, Adobe Dreamweaver, Junit, Log4J, Sun Jersey, Quality Center, AJAX, Hibernate. Associate- Java Developer Easylink - Chennai, Tamil Nadu August 2015 to July 2016 Description: EasyLink's team of professionals work together to achieve a single goal - delivering to your bottom line. EasyLink offers a turnkey solution for all your e-business needs. The most successful websites on the internet focus on being user oriented instead of technology oriented. The underlying advantage of User Centered Design (UCD) is that the best products & services result from understanding the need of the end users the people who are going to use it  Responsibilities:  • UsedUnderscore.js and Handlebar.jsfor templating in most of the code while used Backbone.js as an MVC framework and used java script frameworks like jQuery  • Extensively used CSS and Bootstrap for styling the HTML elements.  • Developed dynamic web pages using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Less, CSS3(SASS) and AJAX.  • Development of Action Forms, Action Servlets, Action and Validating Action Forms in Struts framework.  • Transformed, Navigated and Formatted XML documents using XSL, XSLT.  • Developed application service components and configured beans using Spring IOC.  • Used JNDI to perform lookup services for the various components of the system.    • Worked with messaging queue services like Rabbit MQ.    • Implemented Backbone Js CRUD operations (Create, Read, Update and Delete) and Paginator for pagination for Tables.  • Developed and consumed SOAP Web Services using JAX-WS and Apache CXF.    • Involved in migrating code from SOAP to RESTful services.    • Written IBatis criteria queries for data retrievals and have performed the ORM mappings to map java entities to database tables.    • Developed Rest Ful web services in MULE ESB based on Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and used AXIS to send service requests to Web Services.  • Used Rabbit MQ for transport of data in Queue in between components of the application.    • Extensively used Java 8 Collections APIs &Multi-threading in handling batch service requests.    • Developed deployment descriptors for the EJB have to deploy on Web logic Application Server.    • Used MAVEN for project management and build automation.    • Developed code for handling bean references in spring framework using Dependency Injection (DI) using annotations.    • Developed stored procedures and triggers using PL/SQL in order to calculate and update the tables to implement business logic.    • Good working knowledge of tuning and debugging SQL queries and PL/SQL code.    • Performed unit testing using JUnit framework with Mockito.    • Experience in Unix and Shell Scripting.    Environment: HTML (v3.0), CSS (v3.0), Java (v7), JSF, SERVLETS, JSF Prime Faces JavaScript, JQuery, XML,JNDI, AJAX,SOAP, JAX-WS, WSDL, Apache Axis, SQL, PL/SQL, Hibernate, Spring, Oracle, Rabbit MQ (v2.0) TOMCAT server, Log4J, JUnit, Mockito, Eclipse, Maven, JIRA. Junior Java Developer Faujnet Solutions Private Limited - Bengaluru, Karnataka July 2013 to June 2015 Description: This project is to automate and reduce the manual process on recruitment and interview scheduling. As a First Phase, we released the product only for Add Candidate and Edit Candidate. In the second and final phase, we focused on the other modules of RMS Application. Data Collector is a web-based tool that requires zero development skills and simplifies the online form creation process for intranet and extranet users. The data can be viewed as an aggregated view (bar charts), as a table view (by record) or a report view. The collected data is stored in a SQL database, backed-up and maintained by the MIS database    Responsibilities:  • Responsible and active in the analysis, definition, design, implementation, management, and deployment of full software development lifecycle of project.  • Wrote object-oriented JavaScript for transparent presentation of both client- and server-side validation.  • Developed User Interface and implementing business process using HTML, JSP and Servlets.  • Development of the application that was used to create dynamic JSPs, given input from a database table containing information about the contents of the JSP being developed.  • Involved in writing the presentation layer in Java Server Pages (JSP).    • Developed deployment descriptors for the EJB have to deploy on Web logic Application Server.    • Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural pattern using STRUTS framework including JSP, Servlets, and EJB.  • Used Require Js to improve speed and quality of the code and Log4j for the logging the output to the files.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4J and fixing the problem using Junit and Mockito extensively for testing  • Wrote Servlet programming for the communication between web browser and server.  • Used multithreading in programming to improve overall performance.  • Responsible for coding SQL Statements and Stored procedures for back end communication using JDBC.  • Developed an API to write XML documents from a database.  • Utilized XML and XSL transformation for dynamic web-content and database connectivity.  • Generated Jar files are deployed on Apache Tomcat Server.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, HTML, CSS, XML, Java Script, Eclipse, XML, JBoss, JMS, SQL Developer, SQL,Oracle,DB2,Log4j,Junit. Education Bachelor's in Electronics and Communication Engineering in Electronics and Communication Engineering SJB Institute of Technology - Bengaluru, Karnataka