Java Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Full Stack Developer - Zions Bancorporation Fremont, CA • Around 9 years of full stack development experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) which includes Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of web based, enterprise business applications using the JAVA/J2EE technologies  • Experience in developing Web Applications with various Open Source frameworks: JSF 1.2, Spring Framework 2.0/3.0/4.0, Web Flow, Jakarta Struts Framework 1.1/1.2/2.0, Struts Validation and Tiles Frameworks.  • Extensive knowledge on the Spring Modules like Spring IOC and Dependency Injection, Spring MVC, Spring Batch, Spring Web Flow, Spring Security (Authentication and Authorization), Spring AOP for Code Modularity and Spring Boot  • Developed and deployed Micro Services based applications using Spring Boot along with Spring Rest and Node Js with Express and Hapi  • Implemented exception handling in Java Spring boot for REST API by making use of Exception Handler and Controller Advice annotations.  • Well experienced on implementing SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) using Spring REST to create REST resources that include several components like Jersey Framework, spring Boot, JAX-RS and used WADL for documenting REST API'S.  • Worked on SOAP protocol using JAX WS and integrated Apache CXF, AXIS-2 for WS-Remote Messaging, WS -Security, WS- Policy and other specifications and automated documentation using Swagger and WSDL.  • Experienced in configuring and deploying applications on different servers such as Apache Tomcat, Web logic, IBM WebSphere, JBoss.  • Expertise to interact with relational databases using ORM frameworks like Hibernate, Spring Data, JPA, IBatis, MyBatis, Java Persistence API (JPA), Hibernates second level cache - Ehcache.  • Have good knowledge on different databases like PostgreSQL, MySQL, DB2, Oracle 13c/11g, Microsoft SQL Server, NoSQL DB (Raven DB, Mongo DB and Cassandra, Couch DB, Redis,  Dynamo DB) and good experience in writing stored procedures, functions and triggers using PL/SQL in JDBC, ODBC and in WebLogic server  • Experience in writing stored procedures, triggers, views and functions using PL/SQL scripts and embedded DDL and DML statements in PL/SQL blocks  • Experience in Developing User Interface (UI) Rich Web Applications using Front End/User Interface (UI) Technologies like HTML4/5, XHTML, DHTML, CSS2/3(using SASS and LESS), Type Script, Bootstrap and AJAX by managing all facets and pipelines of application.  • Expertise in implementing the features of ES6 like arrows, modules, block scoping, promises and enhanced object literals,  • Experienced in working with MVVM design flow using client-side JavaScript framework Angular 2.x/4. X/5.0 with NGRX  • Expertise in using shadow DOM which is a feature of Angular 5 to encapsulate visual behavior.  • Good knowledge in providing support for passing messages between publishers and subscribers using observables as a part of Angular 5.  • Experience with features of Angular 4 like Ng Modules which configure the injector and the compiler and help organize related things together.  • Proficient with Angular JS, Backbone JS, Ember JS, Knockout JS, Ext JS for customize front end app development and to achieve MVC design flow.  • Well experienced in view rendering using jQuery, React JS, Handlebar JS and implementing React JS with Redux and Flux patterns to attain MVC functionality.  • Well experienced in developing Dynamic Single Page Application(SPA) using MEAN (MongoDB Express Angular Node) full stack development tool Kit  • Good amount of hands on Experience in developing server-side JavaScript frameworks using Node JS (Hapi JS, Express JS) to build event driven, non-blocking i/o model web applications  • Experience in installing dependencies using Package Managers like NPM, BOWER and running automated task using Gulp, Grunt and web pack for bundling, minification, loading images, configuration  • Experience on UI testing with Karma, Jasmine, Protractor for Angular JS and Mocha, Chai for React JS  • Unit tested web services using Junit, Mockito Easy mock, Spring Junit Runner, Spock, Test NG and hence achieved the goals of Test Driven Development (TDD)  • Well experienced in using various AWS (Amazon Web Services) Iaas (Infrastructure As a Service) Components like EC2 for running applications on virtual machines, S3 and Glacier for storing and long term back up of data, EBS for persistent block level storage, Elastic Cache,  Dynamo DB, SQS for message queueing, RDS for setting relational database in cloud and Lambda for server less program functions  • Expertise in using Microsoft Azure which is cloud computing service for building, testing, deploying and managing applications and services through a global network of Microsoft managed data centers.  • Good Knowledge and Experience on implementing Spring Cloud- Netflix OSS Stack for micro Services deployment, Zuul for API Gateway for routing, Hystix (Circuit Breaker) for latency and fault tolerance and Eureka for service registration  • Experience in applying JMS ( Java Messaging Service) for reliable information exchange across Java applications using Apache Kafka, Rabbit MQ, Active MQ and IBM MQ to communicate from Client to Server  • Good knowledge of Splunk architecture and various components. Expert in Splunk Development, Configuration and Administration and used Kibana to view using Elastic search (ELK)  • Hands on experience in implementation of PCF (Pivotal Cloud Foundry) Paas (Platform as a Service) services such as Pivotal Application Service, Pivotal Container Service and Pivotal Functional Service to continuously deliver applications on to the cloud.  • Implemented security functionality OAuth 2.0, Spring security, SSL and site minder (SSO), secure authentication with LDAP OAuth2 for generating tokens in the application using Spring Security, JWT for producing tokens  • Well experienced with build tools like Gradle, Maven and ANT.,  • Implemented Docker container service, build pipe line Jenkins, Bamboo and GoCD(Go Continuous Delivery) to achieve Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment that can run on the cloud or on-premises  • Hands on experience in managing this Docker Container using Kubernetes with zero downtime deployment.  • Used Kubernetes Linux container for deploying and scaling containerized applications.  • Good practical experience with Java-based logging utility i.e. log4J  • Good knowledge on Drools Rule Engines which corresponds to validating BRMS (Business Rules Management System)  • Experience in Java Thread Dump Analysis and familiar with thread dump techniques  • Have knowledge on Application monitoring tools like New Relic and Dyna Trace  • Strong Knowledge on automated java-based integration testing and behavioral testing of the applications using Selenium and Cucumber respectively  • Good experience in using Software development methodologies like Agile(Scrum), Water Fall and Rational Application Development methodologies  • Experience in using Mule soft which is light weight Java based Enterprise Service Bus (ESB) which allows connecting applications together quickly and easily, enabling them to exchange data.  • Experience in using open source framework Apache Camel which for message-oriented middleware with a rule-based routing and mediation engine that provides a Java object-based implementation of the Enterprise Integration Patterns (EIP) using an application programming interface to configure routing and mediation rules.  • Expertise in working with JAVA8 features like Functional Interfaces, Stream API, Time API, Transaction Management, Exception Handling, Collection API, and Lambda Expressions. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Full Stack Developer Zions Bancorporation - Salt Lake City, UT July 2018 to Present Description: This is a data migration project from IBM CLM tool to Microsoft Azure DevOps, As part of migration, Zion's Service Framework was developed to support the ALM migration and developing micro service extensions to extract data from different tools. Zion's Bank has number of applications running with IBM CLM tool, as part of this framework we developing different individual services to migrate data from Future Core, JIRA, RTC, RQM, DNG, Test Link and also maintaining all micro services and smooth migration of data from IBM CLM to Microsoft Azure DevOps.    Responsibilities:  • Involved client side designing and validation using HTML, Angular 6, CSS, JavaScript, JSP.  • Updated pages using HTML, CSS, in Angular JS framework and created Responsive Web Pages using Bootstrap framework.  • Developed screens using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and Ajax.  • UX design and implementation using HTML, CSS, Webpack, Redux.  • Involved in putting the entries to external XML files whenever required.  • Used Angular JS as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  • Developed Web API using NodeJS and hosted on multiple load balanced API instances.  • Involved in building stable angular components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages  • Involved in implementing the complete application in the in-build MVC Architecture with Angular 6.  • Used Java-script for the providing dynamic functionality and to create a highly responsive interface.  • Involved in the design of the application using J2EE, which employs Model/View/Controller (MVC) design pattern.  • Single web page applications are coded using JavaScript client framework, as well as restful API developments in Spring restful API and Spring boot.  • Used JSON to load data into JQUERY data grid and also as a response type in REST services.  • Created and injected Spring services, Spring controllers and DAOs to achieve dependency injection and to wire objects of business classes.  • Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in spring framework using Dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IOC) using annotations.  • Implemented Singleton, Service Locator design patterns in MVC framework and developed command, delegate, model action script classes to interact with the backend.  • Worked on the Multithreading Concepts Using executor frame work for file parsing the data or scheduling the Data into the application from the vendor services which are in both text and Xml into Json.  • Used Spring Security for Authentication and authorization extensively.  • Developed backend web services using Node JS and custom components for the web applications using angular 6.  • Experience working on Bootstrap, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Knockout.js, Responsive design and Media Queries.  • Implementing or exposing the Micro services based on RESTful API utilizing Spring MVC, Jersey and Apache CXF.  • Using Handlebar Js we can add templates to your HTML page that will be parsed and interpolated with the values from the data you passed to the Handlebars.js function.  • Configured the xml files for Hibernate and applied its Object Relational Mapping ORM to enable the data transactions between POJO and Oracle Database using caching on Session Factory as well as caching on query.  • Involved in writing and modifying Procedure, Queries, Views and Triggers.  • Used Hibernate Transaction Management, Hibernate Batch Transactions, and cache concepts.  • Used Maven for dependencies and configuration management.  • Developed Mean stack from Scratch including Mongo DB and Express JS server development  • Used Mongoose connector to connect Mongo DB through Express framework.  • Performed configuration, deployment and support of cloud services including Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • NoSQL database design and implementation with Cassandra and MongoDB.  • Involved in writing Multi-Threading Synchronization concepts in Java Programs  • Vue.js was used to fetch data from server using axios, prepare and transform data to display in the forms, validate user-entered data and then post data.  • Implemented Continuous Integration and Continuous Development (CI/CD) process using Jenkins.  • Setup front-end application using Web pack, NPM and Babel.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration and worked on Performance improvements for the application.  • Used Docker for managing and running applications within containers.  • Worked with Jasmine and Karma for performing unit testing of Angular JavaScript.  • Writing test cases using JUnit.  • Involved in Test driven software development by carrying out test plans.  • Used Splunk for Log management, monitoring, alerts, log analysis such as how many services consumed per hour based on the response methods, response time analysis.  • Involved in fixing existing bugs and also making modifications to already existing code.  • Worked on Selenium for automating the test cases.  • Implement technologies to improve development process using NPM and BOWER.  • Used Grunt Task Runner for packaging.  • Involved in taking the Clients requirement up-to-date and working on them accordingly.    Environment: HTML, CSS, Angular 6, Java Script, JQuery, Ajax, JSON, Backbone JS, Bootstrap, XML, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, DAO, Hibernate, Multi-threading, JAX-RS, Apache CXF, Jersey, Apache Kafka, Node JS, Mongo DB, Express JS, AWS, Jenkins, Docker, Jasmine and Karma, JUnit, Easy Mock, Selenium, NPM, Bower, Grunt. Java Full Stack Developer Volkswagen group of America - Auburn Hills, MI June 2016 to July 2018 Description: At Volkswagen Group is to develop innovations and technologies for future generations of cars, and to transfer technologies from many industries and research institutions into the automotive domain. My role in this position will be responsible for software infrastructure to bring new connected functionality and interfaces to the automotive market. And develop prototype implementations and interfaces to enable future connected vehicle applications, potentially developing system requirements and specifications that will influence future production systems.    Responsibilities:  • The application is built Micro Service Oriented Architecture using MEAN 4+ (Mongo, Express Angular and Node) stack and developed Single Page Applications (SPA)  • Designed and developed efficient user Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3-SASS and Twitter Bootstrap CSS framework and media queries to create responsive web pages.  • Used Web Pack module bundler for compilation of SAAS files into CSS and for monitoring the application.  • Developed multiple Angular 4.0 components which are compatible with latest versions of typescript, angular CLI.  • Configured various routes, directives for grid, pagination, conditional validations, templating, dynamic loading, lazy loading, Shadow DOM, ngrx store.  • Developed angular views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data with server as a SPA.  • Built-in AJAX HTTP Service with observables is used extensively for making quick and incremental updates to UI of the application.  • Implemented Node JS as a server-side proxy for an event-driven, non-blocking I/O model to make the application lightweight and efficient.  • Developing RESTful web services using Node JS and Express JS and used Node JS server to interact with the Rest services and database, hosted on multiple load balanced cloud instances.  • Implemented services call from Angular at client to Express JS at Node JS server.  • Utilized the inbuilt NPM package manager to configure the right versions of the packages and to achieve dependency management.  • Configured Express JS node http framework to set up middle-wares to respond to HTTP requests and used its front-end tooling like web packs, starter packs, boiler plates efficiently.  • Used complete annotation driven approach to develop the application using Spring Boot and was involved in setting up the spring bean profiling.  • Implemented a robust RESTful web service using Spring Boot to modularize code and automated documentation to the web services in the application is provided by Swagger  • Unit testing of web services is done using Spock framework by extending Groovy syntax.  • Configured Redis (Remote Dictionary Server) with node server for caching the responses via cat box.  • Karma test runner and Jasmine test framework tool are used to perform behavioral driven testing for the angular application.  • Testing for Node JS is done using Mocha and chai and for spring boot used Mokito, junit, mock mvc and thereby achieving Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Worked on ECMA 6 features as ES6 features implemented in Google's V8 which is used by Node JS.  • Configured OIDC (Open ID Connect) on top of OAUTH 2.0 authentication and authorization framework to provide the security to rest web services.  • Implemented Single Sign On and policy based authentication using Site Minder security framework.  • Configured JBOSS Application server and used Oracle database with Hibernate ORM framework and used the functionalities of Hibernates second level EHCache.  • Created dynamic schema design through NOSQL Mongo DB by writing rich queries and achieved data in a collection to be distributed across multiple systems for horizontal scalability as data volumes increase through Automatic Sharding.  • Implemented Mongoose Connector as our ODM framework.  • Unstructured data was handled using MongoDB and used Mongoose Connector for connecting to database  • Configured Kibana data visualization plugin for Elastic search, Log stash and created bar, line and scatter plots, or pie charts and maps on top of large volumes of data.  • Configured Docker container service and build pipe line Jenkins CI/CD tool for continuous integrating and deploying application on servers.  • Responsible for migrating existing modules in IBM MQ to Apache Kafka and worked on creating Kafka adaptors for decoupling the application dependency.  • Installed, configured, and administered NoSQL database clusters in AWS Virtual Private Cloud Network for available data on cloud.  • Implemented AWS solutions using E2C, S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto scaling groups, Optimized volumes and EC2 instances and created monitors, alarms and notifications for EC2 hosts using Cloud Watch.  • Developed Micro Services using Spring Cloud Netflix OSS stack to address Load balancing using Ribbon, API Gateway using Zuul, Fault fa  • Kubernetes is configured in the application for automating deployment, scaling, and management of containerized applications.  • Hands on experience on Dump Analysis and thread Dump common problem patterns (Thread race, deadlock, hanging IO calls, garbage collection / OutOfMemoryError problems, infinite looping etc.).  • Configured New Relic to measure and monitor the performance of application.  • Provided production support/on call support to fix production issues after the deployment.    Environment: Angular 5.0/4.0, Node JS, Express JS, HTML5, CSS3-SASS, Twitter Bootstrap4.0, Site Minder, Hibernate4.x, OAuth2.0, OIDC, Eclipse Java EE IDE, JIRA, Apache Kafka, IBM MQ, Jenkins, Babel,Log4j, Redis, Mongo DB, Mongoose Connector, Oracle, JBoss, Kibana, Elastic search, Log stash NPM, Web pack, EC2, S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Docker, Apache tomcat, Selenium, Spock, Karma, Jasmine, Mocha, Chai, Mokito, Junit, mock mvc, Kubernetes, New Relic, Dump Analysis, Netflix Zuul, Eureka, Swagger, Maven3.0. Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Epsilon - Irving, TX May 2014 to June 2016 Description: At Epsilon, provides unique solutions that strategically combine analytics, rich data and technology. It is committed to help their customers embrace the vast capabilities that the cloud has to offer. Areas such as infrastructure, development, software applications, business intelligence and platform solutions are all within our wheelhouse. My role is in development of various applications and maintain quality for same and perform trouble shot to resolve all application issues.    Responsibilities  • Involved in developing user interface with HTML5, CSS3, SAAS, JSON, AJAX, React JS, Type script, Es6.  • Implemented responsive web design using Bootstrap.  • Used Bootstrap front-end framework for faster and easier web development. Design website and maintain the website content up to date.  • Create, edit and maintain sites implementing responsive design & themes using front-end development frameworks including Bootstrap.  • Experienced in React JS and working with redux architecture.  • Designed modular and reusable React components using Redux Architecture and Material-UI.  • Worked on React JS Virtual Dom and React views, rendering using components which contains additional components called custom HTML tags.  • Implemented various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library.  • Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations, and Redux concept.  • Responsible for React UI and architecture. Building components library, including Tree, Slide-View, and Table Grid.  • Implemented application testability and diagnostics and fixing bugs with the help of REDUX (Reducers) architecture.  • Responsible for implementing UI mockups, integrating third party react libraries, and handling/creating redux store data.  • Developed React/Redux code using functional programming best practices to enable efficient pure function testing.  • Experienced in working with Redux and Alt JS architecture.  • Used Oath 2 which is a lightweight authentication framework with a central authorization server and generates an access token to access a protected resource on a resource server.  • Oath 2 simplifies all the communications between the client, server, and content provider.  • Designed and developed Spring Boot adapter applications using rest API.  • Developed REST full service interface using Spring Boot to the underlying Agent Services API and Implemented REST full web services.  • Used Spring Boot which removes boilerplate configuration and makes application faster.  • Developed some standalone Micro services using Spring Boot micro service architectural patterns  • Used spring Boot properties like actuators and health checkers to enhance micro service implementations.  • Worked on Socket.IO which enables the real-time bidirectional event-based communication.  • Documented Spring Restful APIs with Swagger to help customers better understand APIs.  • Integrated spring with Hibernate for data access from MySQL Database.  • Unstructured data was handled using Cassandra DB and used Cassandra Connector for connection.  • Composed and executed Cassandra DB scripts and queries to fetch and test data from No SQL databases.  • Used Apache Kafka (Message Queues) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of vital information between multiple business applications.  • Used Jenkins for continuous deployment and integration of the build and release process.  • Worked with the Node package manager (NPM) along with Grunt.  • Experienced in working with Babel and Web pack in application build and deployment processes.  • Extensively used Mocha and Chai JavaScript unit testing tools for testing JavaScript pages.  • Worked on creation of custom Docker container images, tagging and pushing the images.  • Designed, configured and deployed Microsoft Azure for a multitude of applications utilizing the Microsoft Azure Service focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance and auto-scaling.  • Extensively used GIT for version controlling and regularly pushed the code to Git Hub.  • Used MAVEN for building the project, dependency and documentation which is based on POM (project object model).    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, SAAS, JSON, AJAX, Bootstrap, React JS, Maven, Spring Boot, Spring IOC, Oath 2, Node JS, Express JS, NPM, Grunt, Babel, Web Pack, Docker, AWS, Apache Kafka, Restful, JAX-RS, Swagger, GIT, Jenkins, MySQL, No SQL, Cassandra DB, Mocha, Chai. Java Full Stack Developer Connexions Loyality - Richmond, VA April 2012 to May 2014 Project Description: The objective of Company is to have a framework in place for the organization, which allows the business users to add new customer configurations, customer product catalog, excluded product details list etc. without depending on the development team.  Responsibilities  • Involved in SDLC requirements gathering, analysis, design, development and testing of application developed using agile methodology for building Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  • Created user-friendly GUI interface and Web pages using HTML, JQuery, and AJAX.  • Used AngularJS to create views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data with server as a Single Page Applications (SPA).  • Worked on Angular JS expressions and built-in directives to render functionality to the UI and JQuery for DOM manipulation and two-way binding.  • Implemented AngularJS controllers to update entity models and used custom AngularJS Filters to provide better search experience.  • Implemented various AngularJS filters against data sets to filter and formatted data currency, strings rendered in the UI.  • Performed Verification and validation process for the code written by making use of Protractor framework by testing across various scenarios of the AngularJS applications.  • Extensively used JSON to parse the data from server side to satisfy the business requirement.  • Used SpringMVC and Dependency Injection for handling presentation and business logic.  • To maintain loose coupling between layers published the business layer as services and injected the necessary dependent components using Spring IOC and published cross cutting concerns like Logging, User Interface exceptions, Transactions using Spring AOP.  • Integrated Spring DAO for data access using Hibernate and handled Transaction Management using the provided data.  • Responsible for designing Hibernate mapping files based on business logic and Object relationships.  • Integrated spring and hibernate together and worked on developing backend components and services.  • Wrote PL/SQL queries, stored procedures, triggers, packages on Oracle database.  • Used Spring JMS module for lookup for the queues and MDBs for the listeners.  • Established Database Connectivity using Hibernate O/R mapping with Spring ORM for Oracle.  • Spring Batch was used for processing large volumes of records, including logging/tracing, job processing statistics, job restart, skip, transaction management and resource management in the application using Quartz Scheduler.  • Deployed the drools rules as a service in J2EE stack environment and packaged and deployed the application in JBoss.  • Used Spring Security for Authentication and Authorization of the application.  • Written LINUX shell scripts to identify user login information.  • Used Log4J for application logging and notification tracing mechanisms.  • Implemented Web service calls using SOAP (JAX-WS frameworks) to provide significant pre-build extensibility in the form of the WS* standards.  • Created WSDL (Web Services Description Language) document for client application web services.  • Developed SOAP web services (JAX-WS) for sending and getting data from different applications WSDL generation and exposed the service at server-side over the Internet and tested the services using JUnit.  • Modified WSDL and XSD schema while generating web service client artifacts by using jax-ws in Jboss server and RAD 8.x  • Used Maven tools for building and deploying the Web applications.  • Did Analysis and Bug fix of the production problems and defects along with enhancements  • Implemented JUNIT test cases for unit testing and Suites for end to end testing.  • Used Selenium web driver to run automation scripts.  • Used JIRA for tracking the Project Stories in Agile Methodology.  • Used Tortoise SVN to maintain the version of the files and took the responsibility to do the code merges from branch to trunk and creating new branch when new feature implementation starts.    Environment: HTML, JQuery, Ajax, Java script, Angular JS, JQuery, Drools, J2EE, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring DAO, Spring Security, Spring JMS, Spring ORM, MDB, JUnit, Jasmine, Karma, Protractor, Hibernate, SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle, JMS, SOAP, JAX-WS, Maven, Jira, Tortoise SVN, Linux, Log4J, Selenium, Spring Batch, Quartz Scheduler. Jr. Java Developer Ness USA inc - Chicago, IL March 2010 to April 2012 Description: Andhra Bank is a medium-sized public-sector bank (PSB) of with a network of 2803 branches, 4 extension counters, 38 satellite offices and 3636 automated teller machines (ATMs). I worked to build a portal through which users can check their pending loan amounts and due dates.    Responsibilities:  • The application is designed using J2EE design patterns and technologies based on MVC architecture.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Agile methodology is used for development of the application.  • Used J2EE design patterns like Value Object Pattern, Session Façade, Singleton, Factory and DAO.  • Created Stored Procedures & Functions. Used JDBC to process database calls for Db2 Server database.  • Involved in writing PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers and Views for SQL database.  • Developed back end interfaces using PL/SQL packages, stored procedures, functions, procedures, anonymous PL/SQL programs, Cursor management, Exception Handling in PL/SQL programs.  • Implemented various features of spring such as Dependency Injection, IOC, Annotations and Spring Integration with Struts.  • Developed the application using Struts Framework that leverages the classical Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture.  • Implemented persistence layer with I BATISORM.  • Involved in designing the user interfaces using JSPs.  • Developed JSTL custom tags to support custom user interfaces.  • Used Eclipse for developing JSPs, Servlets, Struts and with IBM WEB SPHERE server in the development phase.  • Used Spring Security framework to setup authentication and authorization for the application using firm wide single sign on.  • Implemented Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and web services using SOAP with JAX-WS.  • Used SOAP for transmission of large blocks of XML data over HTTP.  • Involved in the development of underwriting process, which involves communications without side systems using IBM MQ & JMS.  • Wrote Unit test cases using J Unit & Mockito framework.  • Used ANT for automated build and deployment on IBM WebSphere.  • Handled Java Multi-threading part in back-end component, one thread will be running for each user, which serves that user.    Environment: Db2, PL/SQL, Spring IOC, Struts, i Baits, JSP, JSTL, Spring Security, SOA, SOAP, JAX-WS, IBM MQ, JMS, J Unit, Miskito, ANT, IBM WebSphere, J2EE. Education Bachelor's Skills ECLIPSE, EJB, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE