Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - UCb Atlanta,GA Atlanta, GA • Over 8 years of software development experience in analysis, design, development, support and testing of application software in web-based environments, enterprise systems and client/server architectures.  • Working with Agile methodologyScrum, XP, and TDD , RUP, and UML.  • Extensive experience with server-side programming and technologies such as J2EEServlets, JSP, Java Beans, JDBC, JMS, JNDI, EJB, JPA, XML, XSLT,DOM , LDAP, Active Directory and UML  • Application development using ApacheStruts, Spring JDBC/IOC/MVC framework and experience with Hibernate.  • Extensive Experience in HTML5, JavaScript, CSS, JQuery,AJAX,JSON and JavaScript MVC framework Angular JS.  • Experience in Java Web Services, SOAP and Restful services using SOAP, WSDL, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, JBoss, Apache CXF, JAXBinService Oriented Architecture SOA.  • Hands on experience on Servlets, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax and Hibernate Expertise in client scripting language and server side scripting languages like JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, bootstrap, Angular.js, JSF and JSP.  • Comprehensive experience in design and development of various web and enterprise applications using J2EE technologies and open source frameworks like Spring, Spring Boot, Struts2, Hibernate, JSF Prime faces.  • Experience with Workflow management Batch processing. And Asynchronous processing using JMS IBM MQ Series.  • Experience with different development IDE tools like Eclipse, MyEclipse, NetBeans IDE, IBM RAD.  • Strong experience in implementing web services SOAP / RESTful  • Expert in Java Message Oriented Middleware MOM API from various providers, which includes Java Messaging Service, brokers Apache Active MQ, IBM MQ Series/Websphere MQ.  • Expert in using spring MVC, Security and Dependency Injection/Inversion of Control and Object Relational Persistence frameworks like Hibernate with mapping of persistent classes and usage of Hibernate Query Language.  • Development experience using Junit framework for unit testing.  • Experience with Oracle and DB2 databases. Experience in writing SQLQueries, PL/SQL Packages, Stored Procedures, and Functions.  • Expertise in using J2EE application servers such as IBM Websphere 6.x/7.x, JBoss and web servers like apache tomcat.  • Experienced in java GUI/IDE Tools using Eclipse, RSA  • Hands on experience on Concurrent Version Systems such as CVS and Subversion.  • Good experience on ANT building tool and application logging using the Log4J  • Experiencing in using Continuous delivery / Continuous Integration (CD/CI) tools Docker, Jenkins to deploy this application to AWS and used GIT for Version Control of code for incremental development.  • Used Log4J for extensible logging, debugging and error tracing also Worked on Junit , Mockito for unit /integration testing of application components also involved in developing Test plans, Test Cases (Manual/Automated), Test Procedures.  • Experience of developing applications in Ecommerce, Financial, B2B and Supply Chain Planning domain.  • Effective team player and excellent communication skills with insight to determine priorities, schedule work and meet critical deadlines. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer UCb Atlanta,GA - Atlanta, GA August 2018 to Present Description: UCB's ambition is to transform the lives of people living with severe diseases. We focus on neurology and immunology disorders - putting patients at the center of our world. We are Inspired by Patients. Driven by Science.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in documentation, review, and analysis of requirements  • Responsible for developing the full stack (from the Markup, JavaScript, Application Services, Database, and Build Scripts)  • Used JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5 to create front end screens of the module  • Worked with JavaScript, CSS, HTML pages in order to create web pages and fix bugs for the website  • Developed, Configured and Deployed a variety of Portals and UI Applications including HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript  • Responsible for coding DAO using struts with hibernate  • Migrated basic application from Angular 1.5 to Angular 2.0.  • Used the functionalities to write code in HTML5/HTML, CSS3/CSS, Angular.js, JavaScript, JQUERY, Ajax, JSON, and Bootstrap  • Complete exposure with MEAN (MongoDB, Express, AngularJS)full stack programming  • Wrote build and deployment script of the message adapter components using Maven  • Customizing JavaScript and Jquery  • Built the search engine for inquiry module with JavaScript, JSON  • All the functionality is implemented using Spring Data / Spring Boot and HibernateORM  • Developed and maintained modules based on AGILE methodology using JIRA  • Built UI for Admin module with JavaScript, AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3  • Used Spring MVC Framework Dependency Injection for integrating various Java Components  • Developed the front - end web page by using HTML, CSS taking advantage of the frameworks Angular 2.0.  • Conversion of designs into HTML/XHTML (Both table-based and table-less layouts).  • Used Gradle to build the project and JUnit to develop unit test cases  • Designed and developed the User Interface using JavaScript, AngularJS  • Done with automated building, testing and continuous integration Maven  • Created components in AJAX and helped design client-side of innovative application development toolkit  • Developed REST APIs in Spring Boot to consume JSON data and integrated the backend logic with frontend views.  • Developed site according to client specifications with HTML and Dynamic Cross-browser Javascript  • Conversion of designs into HTML5 (Responsive layouts).  • Designed Logos and Templates using HTML5, CSS3, AdobeDreamweaver and Adobe Photoshop  • Built the UI for generating customized reports  • Coded Java Server Pages for the dynamic front end content that use Servlets  • Dynamic web site design and programming using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery  • Configured the spring, Hibernate configuration files.  • Developed application using Struts, spring, Hibernate, Angular JS and SOAP/REST web services  • Maintained the database for the user subscriptions  • Worked at DAO for import module    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Java 1.8, JQuery, JSON, Ajax, DHTML, XML, Eclipse, Angular.js Java Developer Change Healthcare Nashville,TN - Nashville, TN May 2017 to July 2018 Description:Change Healthcare is a catalyst for your value-based healthcare system. We are a healthcare technology company that offers software, analytics, network solutions, and technology-enabled services to help create a stronger, more collaborative healthcare system. We help deliver measurable value not only at the point of care, but also before, after, and in between care episodes.    Responsibilities:  • Actively participated in all Agile meetings like Daily Stand-up, Iteration Planning, Pre-Estimation, Code Review and Show/Tell Meeting.  • Developed User-friendly Interfaces using React, Redux, Bootstrap, JQuery, Gulp, HTML5, CSS3 and ES6.  • Developed React components to implement various feature specific modules in the application and worked with a team to move existing web apps to React with ES6 Features.  • Configured Reduxstore in the application, created actions, reducer functions and used Redux- thunk to make REST calls and took part in developing unit test cases in the application using JEST, Enzyme and Nock  • Used React data grid to developed tabular views in the application and used react data components to implement pagination.  • Used React lazy load to load the components lazily to improve the performance of the views in the application.  • Developed UML Diagrams for Object Oriented Design: Use Cases, Sequence Diagrams and Class Diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Developed REST web services using Spring boot, Hibernate, Tomcat and took part in deploying the backend to AWS.  • Developed REST exception handling advices to send proper HTTP error codes to the clients and developed unit test cases to test REST calls using Cucumber, Spring Mock MVC and TestNG.  • Developed JMS messaging components to handle asynchronous messaging from queues using Tibco EMS and Spring JMS.  • Implemented transactions at service level using Spring transaction management and Hibernate transaction manager.  • Worked with SQL and search based data storage. Optimized SQL queries and indexes for SQL Server  • Created Jenkins pipeline jobs to perform builds and deployments using Maven to QA and Prod environment.  • Created AWS cloud formation templates to create the development stack and QA stack and involved in setting up RDS instance.  • Developed Test Scripts to implement Test Cases, Test Scenarios, and features for ATDD (Acceptance Test Driven Development) and BDD (Behavior Driven Development) Using Cucumber  • Log4J is used for Logging Errors, Exceptions throughout the project, also used SVN for Version Control tool and Clear Quest for bug tracking tool.    Environment: Agile, UML, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, XML2.0, Web Services, React JS, Redux, Bootstrap, Gulp, Java SE7, SQL, SQL Server 2012, Tomcat Application Server, Junit, Mockito, JQuery, REST, Jenkins, Cucumber2.0.2, Log4J1.2.17, SVN, Atom, Clearquest. Java UI/ AngularJS Developer Arbella Insurance - Quincy, MA January 2016 to April 2017 Description: Arbella provides car insurance, home insurance and business insurance in Massachusetts and Connecticut, as well as business insurance in New Hampshire and Rhode Island. Financially strong and customer focused, we've been here in New England for more than 30 years.    Responsibilities:  • Consumed Enterprise Web Services, generated client using Axis Frameworks in RAD IDE.  • Responsible for the full stack (front end development, application logic, services, data persistence)  • Coordinated with UI web designers for developing a user friendly application  • Received business logic specifications and design documents, and translated them into HTML5, CSS3, JSON files, JavaScript code and AngularJS  • Developing applications in MVC architecture using Struts framework  • Developed the front end of the application using HTML, CSS, JSP and JavaScript  • Developed a web site using dynamic HTML, HTML, JavaScript and XML DOM parser  • Create RFP (Request for Proposal) Micro service to provide RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC  • Dealt with and resolved issues around Gradle for handling the backend micro services  • Built UI for customized reports using AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3  • Involved in using Maven for the application building  • Developed the DAO layer using the Hibernate and for real time performance used the caching system for Hibernate.  • Using advanced level of JQUERY, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS and pure CSSlayouts  • Implementation of client side and server side programming using HTML5, Servlets, JSP, JQuery and JavaScript and CSS3  • Provided tabbed browsing view using AJAX scripting tasks  • Implemented the Project structure based on Spring MVC pattern using spring boot  • Used MAVEN build tools to maintain dependency  • Built UI to modify customer accounts with AngularJS and CSS  • Developed the front end of the application using HTML5, CSS3, JSP and JavaScript    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Ajax, XML, Eclipse, Angular.js, JQuery Java UI Developer Howard Hughes Corporation - Dallas, TX March 2014 to December 2015 Description:The Howard Hughes name is synonymous with an unrelenting passion for excellence. While his achievements in aviation and the silver screen are legendary, it was his visionary investments in real estate that form the foundation of our company.  Responsibilities:    • Deployed Application on web server using Tomcat  • Validated test cases with quality center  • Extensively worked on how updates and newsfeed will appear on the home screen with JavaScript, AngularJS, HTML, CSS3  • Created custom Filters which can format data in different ways based on the requirements and involved in two-way data binding technique with styling from Bootstrap  • Converted data from database into JSON or XML format files and retrieve useful information using AJAX calls to display them on the browser  • Designed and developed various Screens using JavaScript, HTML, JQuery and CSS3.  • Designed a responsive website using Bootstrap grid system to layout contents that fit different devices including tablet and desktop  • Developed UI for customized report generation using JavaScript, HTML, CSS3  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using DHTML (HTML, CSS3 and JavaScript)  • Used SpringMVC Framework Dependency Injection for integrating  • Worked extensively for DAO in inventory management module with Struts  • Developing HibernateConfigurationfiles for Oracle  • Designed UI for Customer information using AngularJS, CSS, HTML  • Worked in DAO for customer information using struts    Environment: HTML, CSS3, JavaScript, Eclipse, Angular.js, JQuery, Ajax, DHTML, XML Jr Java Developer Mastercom Tech - Bengaluru, Karnataka December 2012 to February 2014 Description:We are a rapidly growing Software System Integrator and Software Services Company focused on Communications IT. We combine our deep insight in communication industry, unmatched technical expertise and comprehensive service portfolio to deliver to superior value to our Telecom Services Providers, ISVs and OEM customers.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Technical software and application design. Web Development using J2EE Frameworks.  • Collaborating and consulting with business analysts. Developed web application using java, Spring MVC, RESTful Web Services, Apache Tomcat and Oracle.  • Provided technical Enhanced web pages using JavaScript, C#, JQuery and CSS/HTML.  • Translated prototype designs into HTML and CSS elements.  • Supported projects utilizing skills in Java, EJB, Oracle, XML, JSP and Ajax.  • Used CSS, HTML, jQuery, jQuery UI and JavaScript for developing rich user interface.  • Front-end Coding using but not limited to Magento Themes and HTML, JavaScript, jQuery and XML.  • Implemented Spring transaction management for some database transactions.  • Also, worked on enhancements with the existing application which was implemented using MVC paradigm, implemented by Spring Framework.  • Worked extensively on J2EE for developing Web and Distributed Applications by using JSP, JSF, Servlets, Struts, Hibernate, Spring Framework and Web Services, EJB, JDBC.  • Used Hibernate as an Object-Relational Mapping ORM tool to store the persistent data and for communicating with Oracle database.  • Worked with Springannotations like Request Mapping, Autowired, Qualifier, PreAuthorize etc.  • Web Interface is designed using J2EE, XML, RESTful Web Services and JDBC.  • Designed and developed user interfaces using JSP, Javascript, XML and HTML.  • Used Git for Versioning and concurrent access to the project files.  • Implemented Data Access Objects (DAO) to access the Oracle database using Spring DAO.  • Deployed the application on Apache Tomcat. Used Apache Maven to build, ivy to resolve dependencies.  • Involved in writing complex SQL queries.  • Experience in different phases of application implementation life cycle including Technical Design, Data Conversion, Oracle Forms development, and Oracle report development, Unit Testing, Integration Testing, End User Training and Production Support.  • Used log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions and debug information.    Environment: Java, J2EE (Servlets, JDBC), Spring 3(Spring AOP, Spring IOC, Spring Theme framework, Spring MVC, Spring Annotations), JMS, RESTful Web Services, Junit, Git, HTML, XML, Apache Tomcat, Maven. UI Developer Prime Soft Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2011 to November 2012 Description:We offer Product Development, Cloud, Quality Assurance and Consulting services to clients from venture funded startups to publicly traded companies in E-Commerce, Healthcare, Networking, Telecom and Banking.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for coding DAO  • Developed application using EclipseIDE  • Coding with MVC Infra (Propriety Framework) using XML and JavaScript  • Did manual testing by creating test cases and validating them  • Developed DAO for time-sheet module  • Responsible for coding of DAO Classes using Struts with hibernate  • Developed UI for customization of Reports  • Responsible for writing Serverside validation using JSF.  • Used JavaScript, CSS and HTML to create the front-end screens of the module  • Involved in the design and implementation of the architecture for the project using OOAD, UML design patterns  • Used AJAX framework for asynchronous data transfer between the browser and the server.  • Used best coding practices and naming conventions while writing code in JavaScript, HTML and CSS  • Created database for Payroll Module with struts  • Analysis, Design and Implementation of software applications using XML, XSLT and Web services    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, XML, Eclipse, JQuery, JSF Education Bachelor's Skills ECLIPSE, EJB, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, JAX, JAXB, JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, JBOSS, JMS, jQuery, JSF, JSP, JSTL, SERVLETS, STRUTS, C++, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, Spring, Rest, Soap, Core Java, Java J2Ee Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages Java, J2EE, C, C++, SQL, PL/SQL.  Technologies JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, Java Beans, MVC, Struts, EJB, JSF, JMS, SOA, SOAP, JavaScript, Jquery, AJAX, CSS 3, XML and HTML 5  ORM Hibernate  Internet Technologies HTML, DHTML, Java Script, Ext JS,GWT  Application/Web Servers Websphere, JBoss, Tomcat.  IDEs Eclipse, RSA, SQL Developer,  MessageOriented Middleware Apache Active MQ, IBM MQ Series/Websphere MQ.  Web Services SOAP, REST, JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, JAXB, WSDL and UDDI  Databases Oracle, DB2  Other Tools ANT, SVN, CVS.  Operating Systems Windows, UNIX