Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - DriveStaff, Inc Chicago, IL • 7+ years of solid work experience as a Java Programmer in analysis, design, implementation, testing, documentation, standard reviews and performance of Object Oriented Applications in Client/Server environments using Java/J2EE.  • Have strong working experience on Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Object Oriented Methodologies (OOAD), Aspect Oriented Programming (AOP), Service Oriented Architecture (SOA), Java, J2EE Design Patterns, Data Modelling and UML based system design.  • Good working experience on Multi-Tier Architecture and design using client-server and Web Technologies in multiple domains.  • Expertise in Core Java concepts like OOPS, Multithreading, Collections Framework, Exception handling etc.  • Good experience in implementing J2EE compliant applications using various Design patterns, Struts, Spring, MVC framework, Hibernate and Messaging Middle-ware using JMS.  • Experience in development of web applications using JSP, JSF, JSTL, JavaScript, HTML, HTML5, Angular JS 1.5 and 2.0 versions, Node JS, CSS, CSS3, XML, AJAX and JQuery libraries.  • Good knowledge in using Amazon Web Services (AWS) and AWS SNS/SQS for delivering messages and development of services that utilize AWS SDK's.  • Strong programming skills in XML related technologies like XML, XSL, XSLT, parsers like SAX, DOM, JAXP, schemas like DTD, XSD (XML Schema).  • Experience in designing of server side code with good knowledge of enterprise and persistence design patterns like Singleton, Factory, Prototype, Business Delegate, Session Facade and Service locator, DAO, ORM, MVC, IOC and AOP.  • Expertise in Spring framework, including Spring IOC/core, Spring DAO support, Spring ORM, Spring AOP, Spring Security, Spring MVC, Spring Cache, and Spring Integration.  • Excellent understanding and hands-on experience in deploying, configuring and administering application servers like Apache, JBoss (Jboss Fuse, Jboss BPM), Web Logic, Web Sphere.  • Good Experience in developing applications using SASS, JSP, AngularJS, Bootstrap, JSON, AJAX and JSTL.  • Good Experience in socket programming and server side programming like Servlets, JSP, JDBC and JMS.  • Experience in developing applications using Waterfall, RAD, Agile and Test First, Test Driven methodologies.  • Good knowledge in using Portal Server for real time applications using Web Services and IDE's like Netbeans.  • Expertise in working with SOA Architecture Web Services and its related technologies like SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, REST and RESTFUL Architecture.  • Proficiency in programming with different Java IDE's like IntelliJ, Eclipse, My Eclipse, NetBeans, RAD and Visual Studio.  • Experience with different version controllers like CVS (Concurrent Version Systems), SVN (APACHE Subversion), CLEARCASE, GIT, GITHUB and GITLAB.  • Experience in working with databases like Oracle (SQL, PL/SQL) Web center, SQL Server 2008 and Mongo DB.  • Written SQL queries, stored procedures and triggers using relational databases like Oracle, and SQL Server.  • Extensive Experience in Windows, UNIX and LINUX environment.  • Quick Learner, excellent communication skills and highly motivated team player with good organizational and analytical skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer DriveStaff, Inc - Wheaton, IL May 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Perform complete application life cycle function (SDLC) from conception to final release to users including design & analysis, Implementation, Testing, Deployment & Maintenance.  • Analysis and review of requirements specification document for clarifications from programming perspective and followed AGILE methodology.  • Involved in creating and extracting data from database using SQL queries, PL/SQL Stored procedures, triggers and packages on Oracle Database.  • Used Spring JDBC to execute database queries. Created row mappers and query classes for DB operations.  • Used JDBC calls in the Enterprise Java Beans to access Oracle Database.  • Created and managed application database connections and application database.  • Processed JSON data from RESTful web service by using Ajax to get resources from the database and populated the data to the client side.  • Implemented the project by using MVC framework.  • Used JSP for presentation layer, entity beans as the model to represent the persistent data and interacted with Oracle database as per MVC Architecture.  • Developed business logic layer using Spring Framework and integrated Hibernate.  • Involved in Spring Boot and Spring AOP framework implementation.  • Implemented java multithreading to access interfaces.  • Developed custom application API's based on workflows derived from design.  • Utilized modular structure within the Angular JS application in which different functionalities within the application were divided into different modules using Angular 2.0.  • Design Implementation of GUI using HTML, JSP and Java Script for front-end validations.  • Designed and implemented the User Interface using JavaScript, HTML, XHTML, XML, CSS, JSP and AJAX.  • Worked with JSON as well as XML to consume and produce Http Requests and Responses.  • Coded extensively in JQuery with Bootstrap to make rich internet web pages and created custom date picker on the website.  • Implemented AJAX framework for asynchronous data transfer between the browser and the server.  • Developed JSP, Action classes and EJBs for various user transactions.  • Developed the XML Schema for the data maintenance and structures.  • Developed internal services using Java and Node.JS  • Designed Java Servlets and Objects using J2EE standards.  • Coding groovy, domain class to handle the business logic.  • Used GIT for version control and deployed application to Tomcat.  • Involved in resolving Production Issues, Analysis, Troubleshooting and Problem Resolution and performance Management.  Environment: Java 8, Oracle DB, IntelliJ IDE, Jasmine, Karma, XHTML, AJAX, J2EE, JSP's, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Multithreading, MS Visio, JavaScript, Spring Boot, Spring AOP, Spring JDBC, Hibernate, XML, Angular JS, Node JS, WebLogic Server, Windows XP, UNIX etc. Full Stack Java Developer Echostar, Fortcollins, CO January 2015 to April 2018 Responsibilities:  • Implemented the Scrum Agile methodology for development of the application.  • Worked in the design team with extensive usage of Rational Rose in detail design phase through the detailed use cases with Sequence, Activity, Collaboration, and Class diagrams.  • Worked in analyzing the requirements and participated in discussions with business analysts.  • Implement J2EE design patterns such as Singleton, DAO, DTO and MVC.  • Developed this web application to store all system information in a central location. This was developed using Spring MVC, jQuery, JSP, Servlet, DB2, IBatis, HTML, Node JS and CSS.  • Updated billing pages using HTML, CSS in Angular.js framework.  • Created Angular JS controllers and services. Used Angular JS 2.0 filters for filter functionality in search box and integrator functionalities.  • Used Spring AOP module to handle transaction management services for objects in any Spring-based application.  • Implemented Spring Boot and Spring Transactions in business layer.  • Interaction with DB2 Database is implemented using Hibernate and Java to Database Connectivity.  • Used Apache CXF, JAX-WS, and JAX-RS for designing and developing REST and SOAP Web services.  • Developed data access components using JDBC, DAOs, and Beans for data manipulation.  • Designed and developed database objects like Tables, Views, Stored Procedures, User Functions using No SQL, SQL Developer and used them in WEB components.  • Worked in designing Web services (REST Service) framework in support of the product.  • Developed JavaScript and JQuery functions for all Client side Validations.  • Developed Junit test cases for Unit Testing & Used Maven as build and configuration tool.  • Worked extensively on maven.  • Debugged the application using Firebug and traversed through the nodes of the tree using DOM functions.  • Monitored the error logs using log4j and fixed the problems.  • Tested and fixed the bugs and also reviewed the code.  • Used GIT repository as Version Control.  • Used Eclipse IDE and deployed the application on Web Logic server.  • Responsible for configuring and deploying the builds on Web Sphere App Server.  Environment: Java 7 & 8, J2EE, Angular JS, Java Script, XML, JavaScript, JDBC, Spring Framework, Hibernate, Rest Full Web services, Web Logic Server, Log4j, Maven, Eclipse, JUnit, Selenium, ANT, No SQL, Soap UI, DB2, GIT. Full Stack Java Developer Xylem Inc - Seneca Falls, NY, US April 2013 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with the Requirements team, analyzed the Use cases and followed Waterfall methodology.  • Designed application modules, base classes and utility classes using core java and implemented web services (WSDL) and effectively worked with SOAP, XML, XSLT.  • Designed and developed RESTful API web services to support JSON for other developers to access to speed up development using Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring Web Services, JSON, Log4j, RESTful and Maven.  • Designed dynamic web pages using JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS for single page applications. Developed customized directives which could be reused by all teams.  • Implemented jQuery to make the frontend components interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Developed JBPM workflow process, rules with help of Drools engine. Wrote services for business layer using core java/Spring concepts.  • Used AJAX with jQuery to parse object to dynamically overlay contents on web pages.  • Developed code for obtaining bean references in spring framework using Dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IOC) using annotations.  • Developed business components using Java Objects, AOP and used Hibernate framework to map the Java classes to the database.  • Developed a web-based reporting for credit monitoring system with HTML, XHTML, and Tiles using Struts framework.  • Wrote various Struts frame work Action classes for interfacing with the business logic, form beans for presenting the data to JSPs.  • Implemented Hibernate, object/relational-mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with a SQL-based schema.  • Implemented Spring ORM with Hibernate taking advantage of Java features like annotation metadata, auto wiring, and generic collections.  • Working extensively with Hibernate Query Language (HQL) to store and retrieve the data from Oracle database. Developed Enterprise JavaBeans for implementing application's business rules and policies.  • Implemented Log4j for logging purposes and debug the application. Prepared Junit test cases and executed the test cases using Junit in eclipse.  • Involved in integrations using Maven and Jenkins and worked with Version Controlling Systems like Git.  Environment: Java 7, J2EE, JSP, JavaScript, JDK, UML, Eclipse, Oracle, WebLogic Application Server, UNIX, JSP, SOAP, SOA, Struts, Spring, Spring MVC, Hibernate, RESTful, XML, CSS, HTML, Junit, Selenium, Rally, SVN, Log4j, Agile Methodology, Oracle10g, Jenkins, UNIX, Ant, Maven, Git, Gitlab. Java/J2EE Developer Deutsche Bank - Jacksonville, FL, US December 2012 to March 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Developing Web Application with Full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) from Design to Deployment.  • Created detail design documents which has the UML Design diagrams, table information, object model etc. which are required for the developer.  • Designed Graphical User Interface (GUI) for various Webpages using HTML, CSS, JQuery and JavaScript.  • Implemented JQuery JavaScript libraries for providing richer user interface and facilitates asynchronous request invocations using AJAX.  • Extensively used DOJO Toolkit to develop the front end web application with DOJO's JavaScript tools.  • Worked extensively on Home Loans department and implemented several cryptographic techniques and worked with several algorithms in dealing with various security issues.  • Used Java Message Service (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information, such as loan status report, between the clients and the bank.  • Designed and developed Servlets and JSP pages for authentication and JUnit Framework are used for unit testing of all classes.  • Implemented Spring Framework's IOC Dependency Injection to inject Service Object using Service Locator Design Pattern into Action Classes.  • Worked with Java Persistence API (JPA) and Hibernate for performing the Database Transactions. Using JPA for designing and creating the entities and establishing the relation between the entities.  • Implemented web services (WSDL) and effectively worked with SOAP and XML, XSLT.  • Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing MVC architecture Struts Framework, Hibernate and EJB deployed on WebSphere Application Server connecting to a Mongo DB database.  • Worked on the Spring framework like Spring IOC and Spring DAO.  • Wrote complex Database PL/SQL Statement and did PL/SQL tuning for the performance of the Database.  • Used/modified Unix scripts and commands for fixing the issues as part of production support and maintenance.  • Deployed application on JBoss and JBPM.  • Involved in issue tracking and agile project management using JIRA.  • Written Test cases using JUnit to validate the application flows in different scenarios in the standalone application.  Environment: UML, HTML, CSS, JSF, JQuery, JavaScript, J2EE, Spring, Struts, Hibernate, Servlets, Socket programming, WebLogic, JSP, JPA, EJB, PL/SQL, SOAP, WSDL, XML, XSLT, WebSphere Server, Mongo DB, JMS, JSON, Rally, JBoss, JBPM, Jira, JUnit. Java/J2EE Developer Northwest Software - Beaverton, OR, US June 2010 to November 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis, Design, Implementation and Testing of the project.  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, XHTML, JavaScript, and CSS.  • Developed web components using JSP, Servlets and JDBC.  • Used AJAX with jQuery to parse object to dynamically overlay contents on web pages.  • Coded JDBC calls in the servlets to access the Oracle database tables.  • Generate SQL Scripts to update the parsed message into Database.  • Involved in fixing defects and unit testing with test cases using JUnit.  • Developed presentation layer using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. Developed Web Services for both Client and Service Side using SOAP and WSDL. Consumed Web services securely using JAX-WS API and tested using SOAPUI.  • Used Ext JS, Bootstrap, React JS as JavaScript application framework.  • Implemented jQuery to make the frontend components interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Developed stored procedures and triggers in PL/SQL.  • Deployed the application in WebLogic server.  • Responsible for Parsing XML data using XML parser and testing, fixing of the bugs and coding modifications.  • Involved in writing JUnit test cases and suits using Eclipse IDE.  • Used Maven and Nexus for building and deployment purpose.  • Prepared Unit test cases for existing functionality and execute them.  • Involved at the time of deploying the code in the production environment and do the functional checkout and merging code using the distributed version control system (GIT).  Environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, HTML, jQuery, JavaScript, Maven, CSS, JNDI, SQL Server2008, SOAP, WSDL, PL/SQL, JUnit, Eclipse, Servlets, WebLogic, Swings, Maven, Nexus, GIT. Education Bachelor's Skills JAVA (8 years), jQuery (8 years), JSP (8 years), HTML (8 years), JAVASCRIPT (8 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages Java, C, C++, HTML, HTML5, DHTML, SQL, CSS, JavaScript  Java Technologies  Core Java, JDBC, Hibernate, JSF, XML Parsers, JSP, Servlets, Portals, EJB, JMS, Swing,  Java Beans, POJOs, Web Services, Design Patterns    XML Technologies XML, SAX, DOM, XSL, XSLT, XPath, WSDL, SOAP, Rest  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, Java Script, AJAX, JQuery, React JS and Angular JS 2.0  Frame Works Struts, Hibernate, Spring, Groovy on Rails, ADF, Angular JS, Node JS, Bootstrap  Tools Eclipse, IntelliJ, WSAD, RAD, CVS, JBuilder, JDeveloper, Ant, Maven  Design Tools Rational Rose, Ms Visio  Servers IBM Web Sphere 6.x/5.x, BEA Web Logic 8.1/9.1, Apache Tomcat 5.x/6.x, JBOSS 4.x/3.x  Operating System Windows, UNIX  Database Oracle11g/10g/9g, MS SQL Server, DB2, MySQL, No SQL, Toad