Sr. Java AWS developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> AWS <span class="hl">developer</span> Sr. Java AWS developer - Aspect Phoenix, AZ • Incisive professional with 8+ years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Implementation of Web Applications in Client/Server environment using Core JAVA /J2EE applications.  • 3+ years of professional experience in core AWS services (S3, EC2, ELB, EBS, Route53, VPC, Auto Scaling etc.), deployment services (Elastic Beanstalk, Ops Works and Cloud Formation) and security practices (IAM, Cloud Watch and Cloud Trail).  • Handled operations and maintenance support for AWS cloud resources which includes launching, maintaining and troubleshooting EC2 instances, S3 buckets, Virtual Private Clouds (VPC), Elastic Load Balancers (ELB) and Relational Database Services (RDS).  • Experience in creating JSON scripts for Cloud Formation based on requirements and launch stacks.  • Created AWS Security Groups for deploying and configuring AWS EC2 instances.  • Well experienced in Spring Framework such as Dependency Injection, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring DAO, Spring Boot and Spring ORM using Hibernate.  • Extensive experience in using databases such as IBM DB2, Oracle 11g/10g, SQL Server, PL/SQL and MySQL.  • Creating snapshots and Amazon machine images (AMIs) of the instances for backup and creating clone instances.  • Performed configuration, deployment and support of cloud services including Amazon Web Services.  • Good knowledge of other services in AWS like Cloud front, Glacier, Cloud Trail and SNS.  • Having knowledge on Java 1.8 features like Lambda expressions and functional interfaces, and Parallel Streams.  • Experienced with Core Java concepts such as Serialization, IO, Multithreading, Collections, Concurrency and Exception Handling.  • Experience in design and development of web based applications using HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, J-Query, Angular-JS, React-Js, JSP and Servlets.  • Experience with back-end JavaScript technology Node.js utilizing Event-driven architecture to optimize throughput and scalability in Web applications.  • Experience on Relational and NoSQL database like DynamoDB and MongoDB.  • Experience in RDBMS Design, ER modelling, SQL, PL/SQL, procedures, cursors, functions and triggers.  • Created Tables, Stored Procedures, User Defined Functions, Views and Triggers for different data operation on the database using SQL server using Java Competence in using Java IDE tools like Eclipse, NetBeans, IntelliJ, Notepad++ and Sublime to develop dynamic web applications.  • Hands on experience in working on XML Suite of technologies (XML, XSD, DTD, XML Schema, DOM, SAX).  • Designed and developed SOAP and Restful web services using WSDL, SOAP, JAX_WS, JAX-RS, CXF, AXIS, JERSEY, REST Template and SOAP UI.  • Experience working on Python Scripting in various projects for automating tasks.  • Extensive experience in building, deploying EAR, WAR, JAR files on test, stage and production servers.  • Experience in the design and development of JUnit test cases, load balancing and failovers with cache servers and application servers.  • Configured and used JIRA for bug tracking and functional testing.  • Experience in working with Test Driven Development (TDD) and Pair Programming. Involved in developing test plans, test cases (Manual/Automated), test procedures, white-box and black-box testing.  • Experience in writing ANT, Maven build scripts and providing logging facility using Log4j.  • Proven capacity to meet deadlines. Excellent communication and presentation skills. Ability as a good developer and effective interaction with end users. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java AWS developer Aspect - Phoenix, AZ December 2018 to Present • Designed AWS Cloud Formation templates to create custom sized VPC, subnets, NAT to ensure successful deployment of Web applications and database templates.  • Experience on various AWS services like S3, EC2, ECS, Cloud trail, VPC, RDS, Route 53, SNS, and Lambda.  • Proficient experience in Web application development using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSON, j Query, Type Script, Angular2/4, Angular JS, React JS, Node.js, DOM and Ajax.  • Expert knowledge in designing SPA using Angular JS, Angular2.  • Designed and developed Microservices using REST framework and Spring Boot and used Bootstrap along with AngularJS in creating the Application.  • Used NodeJS for doing non-blocking design operation for server-side code and Angular.js framework in developing various UI components.  • Developed the responsive UI web pages using XHTML, jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Angular JS 2, JavaScript, node JS and has worked with Angular JS filters in expressions and directives to filter data in the UI. Extensively used MVC, Factory, Delegate and Singleton design patterns.  • Development of Python API's for monitoring of data acquisition and automation of data quality check process.  • Responsible for maintaining and expanding AWS (Cloud Services) infrastructure using AWS Stack especially worked with database setup and maintenance and created AWS EC2 instances.  • Designed services to store and retrieve user data using Mongo DB database and communicated with remote servers using REST enabled Web Services on Jersey framework. Involved in writing Spring Container and Controller classes.  • Used Hibernate to extract and HQL to query the data from MYSQL database.  • Used Jenkins to perform Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment.  • Implemented a Git mirror for SVN repository, which enables users to use both Git and SVN.  • Implemented Continuous Integration using Jenkins and GIT.  • Deployed JAVA /J2EE applications through Tomcat Application servers.  • Deployed Spring Boot based microservices in Docker and Amazon EC2 container using AWS.  • Worked with RabbitMQ for messaging with social application in the bank monitored it.  • Used JIRA tool for Issue/bug tracking, monitoring of work assignment in the system.  • Re-design and implement CI build system using Jenkins.  • Worked with executed unit test cases by using JUNIT for accuracy of code and logging with log4j    Environment: JDK 1.8, Spring, Hibernate, HTML5, CSS3, Maven, JavaScript, GIT, Eclipse, Windows 10, MYSQL, Restful, EC2, S3, EBS, IAM, Cloud Watch, Web Sphere Application Server, Spring MVC, Angular 4, jQuery, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON, DOJO, SOAP, JDBC, DB2, Log4j, Agile. Sr. Java AWS Developer NewRelic - San Francisco, CA August 2015 to November 2018 • Designed and developed the application using agile methodology and followed SCRUM.  • Used Atlassian tools like confluence for documentation, bitbucket for code repository, JIRA to create epics, tasks and subtasks and hip chat for internal messaging.  • Ownership of BPM apps and lead the migration of all BPM flows supporting transportation finance business from Web sphere process server 7.0 to BPM IBM 8.5.6.  • Defined execution strategy and Lead the migration of monitor models from Web Sphere Business  Monitor v7.0 To BPM Business Monitor 8.5.6.  • Utilized AWS Cloud platform and its features which include EBS, EC2, SNS, RDS, Cloud Watch, Cloud Trail, EMR, Lambda, Cloud Formation, Auto scaling, Cloud Front, S3 and Route 53.  • Created instructions for BPM and BAM cross cell configuration for DEF, JDBC data sources, queue connection factories and monitor tables.  • Integration testing of over 50 web service interfaces with multiple operations orchestrated in BPM process and fix issues w.r.t to SSL and basic auth.  • Configured AWS IAM roles and Security Group in Public and Private Subnets in VPC.  • Created EC2 instances by setting up virtual private cloud (VPCs) and security groups.  • Worked on core AWS services such as setting up new server (EC2) instances/services in AWS, configuring security groups, setting up Elastic IP's, Auto Scaling and Cloud Formation.  • Deployed applications on AWS by using Elastic Beanstalk.  • Developed API for using AWS Lambda to manage the serverless architecture and run the code in AWS.  • Worked with the team in writing Python functions to create AWS Lambda function events required to develop the serverless microservices architecture.  • Implemented modules using Core Java APIs, Java Concurrency, Java collection, Java 8(Streams), multi-threading and object-oriented designs.  • Developed Java API to interact with the Amazon SQS for sending bulk emails.  • Created complex SQL queries and used JDBC connectivity through Oracle 11g to access the database.  • Worked on spring and hibernate for managing the alerts generated to store into the database.  • Involved in the migration of data from one database to another database.  • Involved in the process of data mover for disaster recovery platforms Backup and recovery.  • Used JAX-RS for creating Restful API web service where the request and response are in JSON format.  • Worked on maintaining load balancing for incoming traffic to websites by providing load balancers. Created Auto Scaling group based on the traffic diverts to instances.  • Involved in designing web pages using web technologies like HTML5 and CSS3.  • Designed and developed JMS messaging services using J2EE by developing queues/topic, sessions and endpoints in ESB.  • Involved in developing JUnit Test Cases to validate the type of data in the XML Files.  • Used Log4J for logging and tracing the messages.    Environment: Java 1.8, Eclipse 3.2, Python, JQuery, Spring 4.0, Web Services, Oracle 11g, DB2, SQL, MVC, Jersey, JSON, HTML5, CSS3, Unix, Linux, Log4j, JUnit, STS, Apache Tomcat, Gradle, Bit Bucket, JIRA, EC2, S3, VPC, SQS, SNS, SWF, IAM, EMR, Cloud watch, MongoDB, AWS Lambda, Postman. Java/J2EE Developer Elavon Inc - Atlanta, GA March 2014 to July 2015 • Worked on designing and developing Multi-tier enterprise level web applications using various J2EE technologies including Servlets2.x, JDBC, Apache Ant1.5, HTML, XHTML, DHTML, CSS, Java Script3.x, JSP and XML technologies.  • Used Subversion (SVN) version control system to maintain current and historical versions of files such as source code, web pages, and documentation.  • Use Eclipse and Tomcat web server for developing & deploying the applications.  • Developed web pages using JSP, JSTL, Custom Tag libraries, HTML, Java script, J-Query, JSON, Ajax and CSS.  • Parsed JSON data and displayed it in the front end screens using J-Query.  • Used JSF framework in developing user interfaces using JSF UI Components, Validator, Events and Listeners.  • Implemented Spring MVC framework for developing J2EE based web application and used various J2EE design patterns like DTO, DAO and Singleton.  • Developed back-end logic with Core Java using technologies including Collection Framework and Multi-Threading.  • Involved in the coding of Distributed Multi-threaded Enterprise applications using J2EE technologies Servlets, EJB, JDBC and JMS.  • Implemented a RESTful service on the server side using Spring and used Hibernate that interacts with the Database to obtain the claim details.  • Good knowledge and experience with multiple Servers like Apache Tomcat and JBoss.  • Used Maven to build the application and deployed on Web Logic Application Server.  • Used Spring MVC for implementing the Web layer of the application. This includes developing Controllers, Views and Validators.  • Implemented the caching mechanism in Hibernate to load data from Oracle database.  • Developed Front End pages of the application using HTML5, CSS3.  • Implemented Oracle stored procedures and SQL scripts for data loading.    Environment: Java 1.5, JSF 1.2, Spring 2.5, AJAX, Web services , Eclipse3.4, Agile, J-Boss, Web Sphere Application Server 6.1, Apache Camel, Restful, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Oracle 10g, SQL. Java/J2EE Programmer Capital First - IN November 2012 to February 2014 Involved in designing and developing new rest services for mobile application and implemented new changes in existing rest services with versioning for backward compatibility.  • Actively involved in developing services for migration of site pseudo membership to full membership with social and non-social accounts.  • Actively involved in developing services for business profile and order entry redesign.  • Worked with SOLR index for nightly load process and search related development work  • Implemented data abstraction layer using Hibernate DAO objects  • Used Design Patterns such as Singleton, Factory pattern, Session Façade, Business Delegate, MVC, and DAO.  • Involved in developing administrative utilities for uploading offer codes, promo codes and tracking codes.  • Used agile methodology along with test driven development using JUnit and Mockito.  • Used node.js which is event-driven model for data-intensive real-time applications.  • In the project we used PL/SQL commands to work on Oracle database.  • Involved in redesigning partner xml feeds processing  • Involved in user interface development using JSP, JSTL, jQuery, JavaScript, HTML, CSS.  • Involved in production deployment of sprint releases to multiple JBoss servers.    Environment: Agile, Java, J2EE, Struts 2.x, Hibernate, Solr, RESTEasy, SOAP, SyBase, JSP, JQuery, Java Script, HTML, CSS, RapidSQL, Starteam, JBoss, Barracuda, Tomcat, JSON, AJAX, JUnit, Mockito, Ant. Java Developer Cyient - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2010 to October 2012 • Developed the application using MVC Architecture using JSP, Servlet and Struts.  • Participated in client requirement gathering.  • Involved in developing Class diagrams, Sequence Diagrams using UML.  • Preparation of the Low-Level Design document which include program specification and unit test plan.  • Developed HTML and JSP pages for user interaction and data presentation.  • Developed JSPs to implement the presentation logic and use java beans to retrieve the data.  • Involved in developing the Java classes and JavaBeans.  • Involved in Creation of tables in database.  • Extensively used Netbeans for writing code.  • Extensively used - HTML, CSS, XML, UML, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, AngularJS, J2EE (JDBC, Java Beans, EJB) for developing the Web Application.  • Involved in Unit and Integration Testing.  • Used SVN for source code version control.  • Supported Maintenances and bug fixes.  • Involved in System Analysis and Design methodology as well as Object Oriented Design and development using OOAD methodology to capture and model business requirements.    • Environment: Java 1.5, WebLogic Application Server, Apache Tomcat Web Server v6.0, HTML, JSP, Servlets, Struts, Java Beans, MySQL, JUnit, CV Education Bachelor's Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages C, C++, JAVA 1.4, 1.5, 1.6, 1.7, 1.8, J2EE, SQL, Python, Ruby.  Web technologies J2EE - Servlets, JSP, JDBC, EJB, JMS, AJAX, JSF, HTML, Java Script, XML, JSON.  AWS Cloud technologies  EC2, Elastic BeanStalk, IAM, DynamoDB, AuroraDB, Cloud Watch, Cloud Trail, Cloud Formation, S3, Glacier, Route53, VPC, Lambda, Auto Scaling, Docker, Redshift, SNS, SQS, SWS, SES.    Database Oracle 9i/10g/11g, MySQL, MongoDB.  Frameworks Hibernate, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Angular JS, NodeJS-Express, Struts 1.1/2.0  Build tools & IDE's Maven, Ant, Eclipse, Net Beans, IntelliJ, STS  Testing tools Cucumber, JUnit 4.1, J-Mock, Easy Mock, Spring Test and Spock  Version control Rational Clear Case, SVN (Apache Subversion), CVS and GIT.  Design Methodologies Rational Unified Process, Agile, Scrum, Test Driven Development  Operating System Windows, Linux.