Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - King County Trenton, NJ ? Java Programmer with 6+ years of IT experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Deployment using Java-J2EE technologies and related frameworks  ? Sun Certified Java Programmer and Microsoft Certified Professional in SQL server Database.  ? Goal Driven, self-organized Developer with comprehensive understanding of various software development approaches such as Waterfall, Agile, Iterative and Spiral methodologies.  ? Strong programming skills and development experience using Java, Spring, Web Services, Hibernate, JSP, Servlets, Java Beans, JSP Custom Tags Libraries, JDBC and RMI.  ? Hands-on experience in using J2EE frameworks: Spring, Spring MVC, Hibernate, AXIS and Jersey Frameworks  ? Quick-witted Competent with skillful ability in using Spring 4.0 (Dependency Injection/Inversion of Control/ Aspect Oriented Programming) and Object Relational Mapping frameworks like Hibernate 3.x/4.x with mapping of persistent classes and usage of HQL.  ? Proficient in Spring Templates(Spring JDBC, Spring Hibernate, Spring JMS, Spring Rest Templates)  ? Expertise in Creating and Consuming Web Services, related technologies and tools: SOAP, Restful, WSDL, UDDI. Experience in testing web services using SOAP UI tools.  ? Knowledge in using Cassandra and MongoDB. Good Understanding in Hadoop architecture and various components such as HDFS, MapReduce, Pig, Hive programming paradigm.  ? Experienced with frontend technologies like HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX.  ? Multitalented Coder with extensive programming capability using IDE's: Eclipse, OEPE, NetBeans, STS & RAD.  ? Technically Savvy with far-reaching talents using multiple RDBMS products like Oracle, IBM DB2, and MySQL  ? Expertise using Core J2EE patterns like MVC, Business Delegate, Value Object, Session Facade, Composite Entity, Service Locator, and Data Access Object  ? Experience in deploying business applications using application servers and web servers like IBM WebSphere, WebLogic, JBoss and Apache Tomcat and resolving Build Issues and verifying log4j and server logs.  ? Experience with unit testing using JUnit, Test NG, Mockito frameworks  ? Deploying the J2EE applications to Application Servers using Ant, Maven & Shell Scripts for creating Build Scripts.  ? Good knowledge in version control system tools like CVS, SVN, GIT  ? Supported the application in production and used SPLUNK to get the application logs to handle the incidents  ? Experience in working in Offshore delivery model. Pro-active and well organized with effective time management skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer King County - Seattle, WA April 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Involved in life cycle, User Interaction, Requirement gathering, Design, Development, Testing, and Implementation, Prepare Business Requirement Document.  ? Used Spring MVC Framework Dependency Injection for integrating various Java Components.  ? Experience in working with Spring MVC Controllers and Spring Hibernate template.  ? Hands on experience with data persistency using Hibernate and Spring Framework.  ? Developed the DAO layer using the Hibernate and for real time performance used the caching system for Hibernate.  ? Participated in the implementation of client side and server side programming using HTML, Servlets, JSP, and JavaScript and CSS.  ? Consumed Enterprise Web Services, generated client using Jersey & Axis Frameworks in RAD IDE.  ? Configured the Spring, Hibernate, Log4j configuration files.  ? Helped UI to integrate the JavaBeans data using JSTL, springtags.  ? Involved in testing and deployment of the application on WebSphereApplicationServer during integration and QAtestingphase.  ? Used Maven Scripts to build and deploy applications and helped to deployment for ContinuousIntegration using Jenkin and Maven.  ? Wrote SQL queries and StoredProcedures for interacting with the Oracle database.  ? Was part of production support team to resolve the production incidents.  ? Documentation of common problems prior to go-live and while actively in a Production Support role.    Environment: Java, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services, SOAP, RESTUFL, JDBC, JNDI, Eclipse IDE, XML, HTML, Java Script, CSS, jQuery, Rally, Agile, ANT, MAVEN, JSTL, JUnit, Mockito, SVN, SQL, Oracle, SQL Developer, WebSphere, Centos(Linux), Rational Application Developer(RAD). Java/J2EE Developer Walmart January 2016 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the Analysis, Design and implementation using AGILE methodology for iterative development of the application. Participated in Scrum, Retrospective and Release Planning Meetings  ? Developed application using Spring, Hibernate, Web Services (RESTFUL)  ? Worked on Spring Controllers and configured using annotations to handle the presentation requests and integrated with services and DAO using annotation  ? Developed and Consumes Restful web services and tested using SOAP UI  ? Developed JUnit for Unit Testing and Mockito as Mocking framework  ? Used JAXB, JAXP for parsing auditing information in xml format.  ? Used JSP, JSTL and spring tags for retrieving and displaying data. Used jQuery Framework.  ? Developed Mongo DB Schemas, functions and procedures  ? Used NoSQL DB like Mongo DB for the proof of concept.  ? Helped the build team to integrate the code Continuous Integration using Jenkins.  ? Used the Log4j frame work to log the system execution details to log files.  ? Used SVN version controlling to maintain project versions  ? As a part of Quality assurance participated in the Code review process.  ? Analyzed web applications, documented detail Test plans, Test cases and expected results based on the business functional requirements.  ? Used SPLUNK to search and reviews the logs information while working on the incidents  ? Used Tomcat Web server to deploy application locally and used IBM Web Sphere to deploy application in production    Environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, Spring MVC/ DI/ AOP/ Templates, Hibernate, Web Services, RESTFUL Services, SOAP, SOAP UI, Jersey, Axis, RAD, JUnit, HQL, PL/SQL, JSTL, Spring Tags, Mongo DB, HTML, CSS, ANT, Maven, Jenkin, Rally, UML, SPLUNK, TOAD, WebSphere, IBM HTTP Server, RAD, Oracle, Linux/Unix. Java/J2EE Developer Well Point - Woodland Hills, CA October 2014 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Developed application using Agile Methodology  ? Responsible for creating functional design documents, technical documents, flow charts and data flow diagrams.  ? Developed Spring Controllers, Service Components, DAOs, Web Services and UI Integration for processing the member request for two modules.  ? Developed the DAO layer using the Hibernate annotations and configuration files.  ? Used Spring MVC Framework Dependency Injection for integrating various Java Components.  ? Consumed Enterprise Web Services& generated client using Jersey and Axis Frameworks.  ? Developed specialized search system using Mongo DB, Java Servlets, JUnit, Maven.  ? Helped UI to integrate the java beans data using JSTL, Spring tags  ? Used Maven Scripts to build and deploy applications and worked closely with build team to resolve CI, Maven site and Report Issues  ? Unit Testing Java code using JUnit 4 and Integrating with Jenkin.  ? Wrote SQL queries and Stored Procedures for interacting with the Oracle database.  ? Involved in testing and deployment of the application on WebLogic Application Server during integration and QA testing phase  ? Was part of production support team to resolve the production incidents  ? Co-ordinate with the QA lead for development of test plan, test cases, test code and actual testing responsible for defects allocation and those defects are resolved  ? Documentation of common problems prior to go-live and while actively in a Production Support role.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, XML, Spring 3.x, Hibernate, Web Services, SOAP, Restful, WSDL, Jersey, Axis, SOAP UI, Eclipse, Oracle11, TOAD, JUNIT, SQL, PL/SQL, JSTL, Spring Tags, HTML, CSS, ANT, Maven, Jenkin, UML, TOAD, WebLogic, Linux. Java/ J2ee Developer Citi Bank - Irving, TX August 2012 to September 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Define and execute a new strategy for improvements in GTS Cash Client on Boarding and electronic Bank account management.  ? Developed front-end components using JSP, Struts layout.  ? Install, configure and administration of Bea WebLogic Server 8.1/9.x in various environments.  ? Involved in JavaScript coding for validations, and passing attributes from one screen to another.  ? Used spring aspects for implementing cross cutting functionalities like transactions.  ? Used Spring core, Spring Context, Spring MVC Framework etc are used for the application configuration of different components, services in the application  ? Used Spring Framework Transaction Management feature called Hibernate Transaction Manager for handling transactions along with Hibernate  ? Utilized the weblogic.Admin utility for retrieving and analyzing the Thread dump information, inding the Web Logic's Server state information, license information, storing user credentials etc.  ? Troubleshooted emerging application issues, from WebLogic configuration side.  ? Used Spring as an integrated framework and implemented IOC concept.  ? Defined persistent classes that are mapped to database tables based on the analysis of the business domain.  ? Created an XML configuration file for Hibernate Database connectivity.  ? Implemented persistence layer using various features of Hibernate framework like HQL queries, Criteria, projections etc.  ? Wrote custom JSP tag libraries. Implemented role based handling in JSP pages.  ? Used GWT for different modules in the application development and developed user interface.  ? Hands on experience of testing services using SOAP UI.  ? Carried out bug fixing by rigorous testing using JUnit test cases.  ? Defined an interface for integrating business tier of a service with WPS workflow i.e. initiate workflow.  ? Documented all stages of the project, generated documentation using Java API Documentation Generator (javadoc).  ? Build ear file with jars and war files releasing for Production.  Environment: Java, JSP, Javascript, HTML, IBM WebSphere Application Server 6.1, RAD 7.0, WebLogic server 8.1/9.2/10.0,11g, Apache Axis, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, WSDL, SOAP, JUnit, SOAP UI, Oracle, Red Hat LINUX, IBM AIX. GWT JAVA Developer Metlife New York NY - New York, NY July 2011 to August 2012 Responsibilities:  ? Developed the Servlet and Session Beans for Bulk upload module.  ? Involved in the development of the Java Thread based connect architecture using Factory and Singleton pattern to handle different stages of bulk processing.  ? Use the XML based request and response messages for communication and uses the DTDs for validation.  ? Developed the Message Driven Beans for purging utilities of audit log tables using JMS services.  ? Worked on the presentation and UI components using XSL, CSS and JavaScript with Builder design pattern.  ? Used Log4J for logging framework to debug the code  ? Handle the configuration of JMS Queues and JDBC connection pools on IBM Websphere 5.1.  Environment: J2EE (EJB, Servlets, JavaScript, XSL, XML, DTDs), JDBC, JMS, JNDI, Java Threads, CSS, ANT, Oracle 9i DB, Web-logic, Windows. Education Bachelor's Skills JAVA (6 years), UI (6 years), USER INTERFACE (6 years), XML (6 years), J2EE (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Languages: Java, C, .Net, C#, PHP, Python, PL/SQL  J2EE Technologies JSP, Servlets, JDBC,JNDI, Java Beans, JMS, Web Services, SOAP, Restful  Web Technologies JSP, Servlets, HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, XML, JSON, AJAX & JQuery.  Frameworks/Tools Spring, Hibernate, MVC Architecture, Web Services, AXIS, Jersey, Log4j, Maven, JUnit, TestNG.  Web/Application Servers WebSphere, WebLogic, JBOSS, Apache Tomcat, Apache HTTP Server, IIS Server  Software Methodologies Agile Scrum, Waterfall, TDD.  Databases MySQL, MS SQL Server.  IDEs/tools Eclipse, OEPE, RAD, Spring Source, Jenkin, Toad, SOAP UI, RALLY, JIRA, Quality Center, Tortoise, GIT, SVN, Firebug, FirePath, SPLUNK.  Testing Tools Selenium IDE, JUnit, JMeter.  Big Data MapReduce, Hadoop, Cassandra, Pig, Hive, MongoDB  Operating System MAC, UNIX,LINUX, DOS, Windows