Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Full Stack Developer - Synechron Inc New York, NY • Over 9+ years of experience in delivering enterprise solutions in multiple domains like E-commerce, Finance, Telecom, Insurance, Health and other related domains. Expertise in conceptualizing, designing and coding technical solutions using Java/J2EE and UI technology stacks to satisfy complex business problem statements.  • Expert in Various Agile methodologies like SCRUM, Test Driven Development(TTD), Incremental and Iteration methodology, Pair Programming, Agile Development &Testing using Software Development Life Cycle.  • Experienced in Full stack UI technologies using Gruntjs, Gulp Server, Yeoman generator for Angular.  • Expert level skills on JSON, HTML, DHTML, CSS, Tiles, Tag Libraries and UI frameworks - Twitter Bootstrap, Materialize CSS, jQuery Mobile.  • Experience with jQuery, Ajax, JavaScript, Nodejs, ReactJs, BackboneJs, AngularJs, Angular 2.x/4.x and Client-side validations.  • Experienced in Java Web-based, Desktop Based Development with Concepts of Object Oriented Design (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis (OOA), Object Oriented Programming (OOP) and its implementation.  • Expertise in the implementation of Core Java concepts of Java, J2EE Technologies: JSP, Servlets, JSF, JSTL, EJB transaction implementation (CMP, BMP, Message-Driven Beans),Struts, Spring, Swing, Hibernate, iBatis, Java Beans, JDBC, XML, Web Services, JNDI, Multi-Threading, Data structures.  • Experience in Spring Modules Spring MVC, AOP, IOC, Spring Boot, Spring Microservices, Spring REST, Spring Eureka, Spring Ribbon, Spring Netflix, Spring Hystrix, Spring Dashboard, Spring Zuul, Spring Security.  • Experienced in developing web-applications using various design patterns, including session facade, MVC, Data Access Object, Singleton and Factory Pattern.  • Proficient in using Amazon Web Services (AWS). Extensive experience focusing on services like EC2, Elastic Beanstalk, CloudWatch, CloudFront, CloudFormation, IAM, S3, RDS, ElastiCache, SNS, SQS, AMI.  • Experience with Docker containers, leveraging Linux Containers and AMI's to create Docker Images/ containers.  • Experienced in building Web Services using SOAP and RESTFUL.  • Expertise in XML technologies such as DTD/Schemas, DOM, SAX, XSLT, XPATH, Castor.  • Experience in configuring and deploying the applications on Tomcat 5.x/4.x/3/x., GlassFish, WebSphere 6.x/5.x/7.0, Web Logic9.x/8.x/7.x/6.x, and JBoss Servers.  • Experienced in developing UNIX shell scripts for batch processing.  • Experience in database modeling, design and development of PL/SQL stored procedures, packages in relational databases: Oracle 9i / 10g / 11g, SQL Server 2005/2008, DB2, PostgreSQL and MySQL.  • Strong experience with MongoDB development (reports, schema design, map reduce functions) and migrations from SQL relational databases to NoSQL databases like MongoDB, Cassandra and CouchDB.  • Good Experience in software configuration management using CVS, GIT and SVN.  • Experienced in performing unit testing using JUnit, Test NG, Mockito, integration and deployment of applications using tools such as ANT, Maven, Gradle, Jenkins & debugging through log4j and Splunk.  • Created Test automation framework using Cucumber and Selenium web driver.  • Knowledge of writing rules directly in the Drools Rule Language (DRL), and decision table.  • Expertise on UI testing with Karma, Mocha, Jasmine and Chai.  • Experience using secure authentication mechanisms like LDAP, SASL and Kerberos v4.  • Good knowledge on dependency management tools such as NPM and Bower.  • Developed Interactive graphs using D3.js with JSON data.  • Knowledge on tools like BigF5, Gomez. Work Experience Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Synechron Inc - New York, NY September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application.  • Developed applications using Angular2, Java8 and new features of java (lambda expressions).  • Developed screens using HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX.  • Design and developed the application using framework Angular 2 with HTML5, CSS3 and Typescript.  • Developed UI components using Angular 2 dependency Injection, Models, data binding and controllers.  • Implemented Angular 2 Router to enable navigation from one view to another.  • Used Protractor to perform End to end testing for single page application developed using Angular 2.  • Developed Application to asses JSON and XML from Restful web service from consumer side using Angular 2.  • Experience with Responsive Web Design, Bootstrap and Plygrid framework.  • Developed various generic JavaScript, Angular functions to implement client-side validations.  • Involved in developing Thread Safe blocks for multithread access and distributed transaction management.  • Created and injected spring services, controllers and DAOs to achieve dependency injection.  • Heavily used Spring Inheritance, Auto-wiring, Core Container, Security, AOP, Spring Quartz for scheduling tasks to generate reports and emails to clients.  • Developed Persistence layer using Spring Data to interact with the Database.  • Developed Spring Restful/Microservices and implemented Spring Restful/Micro Services and implemented Spring Eureka, Netflix, Ribbon as part of Services Discovery using Apache Axis.  • Implemented Spring MVC flow to interact with different modules and extensively used Spring AOP and Dependency injection during various modules of project.  • Developed Microservices with Spring Eureka to retrieve API routes for the entire cluster. Using this strategy each spring service in a cluster can be load balanced and exposed through one API gateway.  • Used Micro service architecture with Spring Boot based services interacting through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka message brokers.  • Implemented Spring Circuit breaker pattern, integrated Hystrixdashboard to monitor Spring micro services.  • Implemented Authentication & Authorization with Site Minder and Spring security.  • Implemented REST based web services using JAX-RS annotations, Jersey provider and consumed using HTTP services from angular 2 modules.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) like EC2, S3, cloud watch and Elastic Bean Stalk for code deployment.  • Used GWT and Amazon AWS (EC2/S3/EBS) for prototyping and subsequent evaluation.  • Developed quality code adhering to Scala coding standards and best practices.  • Worked with Kafka Cluster using ZooKeeper. Developed Applications using Rule Engines-Jboss Drools 4.x,Work flows, Human tasks to implement Business rules validations.  • Developed data transformer for converting legacy data from Source tables to avro format and fed into Kafka using Camel.  • Worked on creation of custom Docker container images, tagging, pushing images, integration of Spring boot.  • Worked with the automation team to understand the Selenium scripts and review the code, run the tests and review the results and provide inputs to the team.  • Used Maven and Jenkins to automate the build and deploy process and Git was used for project management and version management.  Environment: Java 8, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Angular 2, HTML5, CSS3, JSON, JavaScript, Node.js, Spring Data, Protractor, Mongo DB, Oracle 11g, IntelliJ IDEA, Junit 4.4, Mockito, Git, Selenium, Scala, Spark, Drools, AWS, Docker, Spring Cloud, RESTful web services, Apache Tomcat, Apache Kafka, Camel, Maven, Jenkins, Karma, Jasmine. Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Principal Financial Group - Des Moines, IA January 2017 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for React UI and architecture. Building components library, including Tree, Slide-View, and Table Grid.  • Responsible for Building applications using React.js which allowed us to render pages on both the client and server using the same codebase.  • Implemented React.js code to handle cross browser compatibility issues in Mozella, IE 7, 8, 9, Safari and FF. Used Babel plugin tool for conversion of ECMA versions to support all type of browsers.  • Developed the flux pattern by using Redux framework as a core dependency.  • Integrated Redux data store allowing React components to have access to data resulting in highly maintainable code.  • Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application.  • Used Java-J2EE patterns like Model View Controller (MVC), Business Delegate, Data Transfer Objects, Data Access Objects, factory patterns.  • Designed and developed the End Points (Controllers), Business Layer, DAO Layer using Hibernate and Spring IOC (Dependency Injection).  • Extensively used MVC, Factory, Delegate and Singleton design patterns.  • Used Spring MVC Transaction Management and Hibernate cache concepts.  • Modified the Spring Controllers and Services classes to support the introduction of spring framework.  • Creating Docker containers leveraging existing Linux Containers and AMI's in addition to creating Docker containers from scratch and developing Docker images to support Development, Testing Teams and their pipelines, distributed Jenkins, Selenium and JMeter images, and Elasticsearch, Kibana and Log stash.  • Installed Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF) on EC2 to manage the containers created by PCF.  • Used Docker to provide virtualize deployment containers and push the code to EC2 cloud using PCF.  • Experience in data structure design, Data Modeling in Cassandra.  • Developed JUnit, Chai, Mocha and Gulp test cases for unit, integration, and functional tests.  • Ran Log aggregations, website Activity tracking and commit log for distributed system using Apache Kafka.  • Used Log4j to print logging, debugging, warning and info on server console. Debugged the MAVEN scripts for building entire web application.  • Implemented Cucumber for behavioral testing of application.  • Developed reusable UI components using ES6, Handlebars and Webpack.    Environment: React.js, Node.js, Babel, Redux, Bootstrap, Docker, Jenkins, Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF), Docker, Cassandra, JUnit, Chai, Mocha, Gulp, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Apache Kafka, Log4j, MAVEN, Cucumber, Webpack, Babel. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer First Federal Bank - Defiance, OH July 2013 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Designed, coded, implemented, optimization and tested new features and modules for the derivatives system as part of an Agile team and improved automation test suites.  • Utilized Modernizer extensively to build HTML5/CSS3 based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible.  • Implemented client-side Interface using React JS. Worked on responsive design and developed a single ISOMORPHIC responsive website that could be served to desktop, Tablets and mobile users using React JS.  • Implemented application testability and diagnostics and fixing bugs with the help of REDUX (Reducers) architecture.  • Utilized create-react-app to launch product to stay update with current Webpack and Babel build configurations.  • Handled HttpRequests using Axios which supports Promise API functionality native to JS ES6.  • Gained Knowledge on Electrode Platform NodeJS/Web platform built on top of the ReactJS and HapiJS frameworks.  • Developed Web API using Node JS and hosted on multiple load balanced API instances.  • Developed Spring Boot to fasten the application for removing boiler plate configurations.  • Used loosely coupled architecture Spring Boot. Developed Micro Services in the application by using Spring Boot.  • Developed Micro Services for service oriented architecture to build flexible and independently deployable software.  • Developed RESTWeb Services clients to consume those Web Services as well other Enterprise Wide Web Services.  • Worked with Spring AOP module to perform logging operations.  • Developed independent Microservices using Spring Boot Rest Controller model and are deployed on UNIX boxes.  • Employed Spring Boot for initialize and bootstrapping the build configuration for the boot based web applications.  • Development of cloud hosted web applications and REST APIs using Spring Boot with embedded Tomcat.  • Extensively Used Jenkins as Continuous Integration tools to deploy the Spring Boot Microservices to Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF) using build pack. Used Pivotal Cloud Foundry to quickly build, deploy and update the applications.  • Utilized Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping (ORM) purposes for persistence on to the database.  • Developed different join strategies with Hibernate to improve performance while retrieving collection items.  • Used Spring MVC, AOP, IOC and Hibernate to establish the Connection with Database for Stored Procedures.  • Involved in implementing Queries to the backend MongoDB database using Http service to fetch JSON contract.  • Unstructured data was handled using Mongo DB and used Mongoose Connector for connecting to database.  • Composed and executed MongoDB scripts and queries to fetch and test data from NoSQL databases.  • Responsible for installation & configuration of Jenkins to support various Java builds and Jenkins plugins to automate continuous builds and publishing Docker images to the Nexus repository.  • Used CI/CD tools Jenkins, Git/Gitlabs and Docker registry for configuration and automation using Ansible.  • Used Drools as rule engine to categorize salient level rule to every business rules base on the business needs.  • Experienced in working with Babel and Webpack in application build and deployment processes.  • Created plugins to extract data from multiple sources like Apache Kafka, Database and Messaging Queues.  • Ran Log aggregations, website Activity tracking and commit log for distributed system using Apache Kafka.  • Deployed and monitored scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services specifically on AWS EC2.  • Performed UI and front-end testing using Selenium. Developed test case and performed unit testing with Mocha.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, React JS, Babel, Spring Boot, Spring AOP, Spring IOC, Hibernate, Redux, Axios, Node JS, Hapi JS, Webpack, JSON, Ansible, Pivotal Cloud Foundry, Jenkins, GIT, Docker, Drools, Nexus, Mongoose, MongoDB, Chai, Webpack, Mocha, Selenium, Apache kafka, EC2, AWS. Java Developer Medecision - Wayne, PA November 2011 to June 2013 Responsibilities:  • Worked as a Java Developer and involved in analysis of requirements, the design, development, integration, deployment and testing.  • Developed the application under J2EE architecture using JSP, spring, JavaBeans, and iBATIS.  • Used AJAX in user validation and suggestion list and to display dialog boxes.  • Involved in preparing the High Level and Detail level design of the system using J2EE.  • Developed Web Interface using Java Script, HTML and CSS.  • Involved in the development of model, library, struts and form classes (MVC).  • Used Spring Framework and created the Dependency injection for the Action classes using ApplicationContext.xml.  • Worked on MQ with J2EE technologies on the WebSphere MQ.  • Used display tag libraries for decoration and used display table for reports and grid designs.  • Worked on core java, using file operations to read system file (downloads) and to present on JSP.  • Providing fixes to the issues identified in testing phase.  • Implemented SOA architecture with web services using SOAP and XML.  • Analyzed, designed and implemented DAO pattern for accessing Database using connection pool.  • Used PL/SQL stored procedures for applications that needed to execute as part of a scheduling mechanisms.  • Involved in configuration of XML flat file and parsing the XML file using the SAX Parser.  • Worked on diverse ways to increase performance of the Application through use of methodologies like asynchronous calls to database, stored procedures in place of Dynamic SQL, etc.  • Used Rational Clear Case for version control and JUnit for unit testing.  • Implemented JReport for annual report generation with charts.  • Provided troubleshooting and error handling support in multiple projects.  • Worked on Reconciliation, which involves in providing root cause analysis and data fixes.  • Configured Glassfish Application server and deployed the web components.  • Extensively involved in designing UI, reporting and specification documentation.  • Responsible for the user module, setting rights and permission to users through the keywords set with database and testing.    Environment: JDK1.5, JSP, JSF, Struts, iBATIS, Spring, HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, CSS, XML, EJB, PL/SQL, Glassfish, JUnit, SOAP, SAX Parser. Software Developer Toyon Associates, Inc - Concord, CA May 2010 to October 2011 Responsibilities:  • Worked as a Java Developer and involved in analysis, design, development, deployment and testing.  • Implemented MVC-Model 2 architecture using Struts and other J2EE design patterns for the application development.  • Used Struts Framework along with JSP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript to construct the dynamic web pages.  • Designed DTDs, XML Schema for data transmission and XSL style-sheets.  • Adopted J2EE design patterns like Singleton and used DTO's transfer the data.  • Designed, developed and maintained the data layer using the ORM frame work called Hibernate.  • Involved in the development of SQL queries to get data from MySQL.  • Used ANT for building and deploying NBT application to servers.  • Extensively worked on Object Oriented Programming aspect of Java using JDK1.5 for collections along with comparator, Multithreading, thread synchronization.  • Used Hibernate to persist the Data into the Database.  • Using Eclipse IDE for bluestone application development of Java related classes and components.  • Involved in Agile development process.  • Deployed the application on Tomcat 6/5.5 and used shell scripting for maintaining servers.  • Production supported after release.  • Worked with offshore and ensuring on time delivery of deliverables.  • Deployed the NBT application in WebLogic, Tomcat servers on Solaris and Windows environments.  • Developed Unit Tests and Test Suites using JUnit.    Environment: java1.6, Struts2.0, Spring2.5, JSP 2.0, Ajax, XML, HTML, ANT, CSS, JavaScript, JBuilder, custom JSP tags, JSTL, Mercurial, FTP, UNIX (AIX), Hibernate3, MySQL, WebLogic, Continuum, Tomcat6.0/ 5.5, Windows XP. Education Bachelor's Skills AJAX. (3 years), Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (5 years), Apache (5 years), API (4 years), AWS (4 years), EC2 (5 years), HTML5 (4 years), J2EE (8 years), Java (9 years), JavaScript (3 years), Junit (5 years), REST (4 years), Selenium (5 years), testing (9 years), Tomcat (5 years), UI (7 years), UNIX (5 years), USER INTERFACE (7 years), web services (5 years), XML (3 years) Additional Information TECHNICALSKILLS:    Languages Java 1.5/1.6/1.7/1.8, J2EE, UNIX Shell Scripting, Python 3.6.0, Scala 2.12.1, C, C++.  Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, DHTML, XML, CSS, Bootstrap, JSF, JavaScript, SERVLETS 3.1, JSP 3.0, JavaBeans 3.0, Java Servlets API 3.0, AJAX.  Frameworks Spring 4.3, Hibernate 4.3, Angular JS 1.0/1.5/2.0, Struts 2.x/1.x, Log4J.  Application/Web servers Apache Tomcat 8, IBM WebSphere 8.x/9.x, Jetty, Jenkins 2.50, JBoss, Tomcat 5.0/6.0/7.0, Glassfish, WildFly.  Relational Databases Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g, SQL server 2012/2014/2016, MySQL 5.7, DB2 11.1.  NoSQL Databases MongoDB, Cassandra, Couch DB.  Internet Technologies HTML 5, JavaScript 1.8, XML 2.0, CSS 3 and CSS 4, JQuery 2.11, Angular JS 2.0, BackBone.JS 1.3.1, Polymer.JS, Node JS 6.0.  Web Services JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, REST, SOAP UI.  Cloud Environments Azure, AWS, Netflix Eureka, Mesos.  AWS Skills  EC2, Simply Storage Service, Cloud Front, Relational Data Base, Virtual Private Cloud, Route 53, Cloud Watch, Cloud Trial, Identity and Access Management, Simple Notification Service, AWS EMR, AWS CLI.    Operating systems Windows, MS-DOS, UNIX, Mac OS, Linux and Ubuntu.  Testing Tools Junit 4.12, Win Runner, Jenkins, Selenium WebDriver/Grid, JIRA 7.0., Bugzilla 4.4.12, Jasper Reports 6.0.  Methodologies Agile, waterfall, TDD (Test-Driven-Development), Scrum, SDLC.  Developer IDE Platforms Eclipse, Edit plus, Notepad ++, TEXT PAD, JBuilder, Net Beans 8.0.2, Intellij 2017.1, Spring Tool Suite (STS) 3.8.3, GITHUB 2.12.0.  Build Tools Ant 1.10, Maven 3.3.9, Gradle 3.4.1.  Case Tools Rational Rose, UML, OOAD, RUP.