JAVA DEVELOPER <span class="hl">JAVA</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> JAVA DEVELOPER - HERSHY'S,Derry Township,PA Pennsylvania Treaty Park, PA • Around 5 years of experience in Design & Development of Enterprise Applications, Web Applications, and Web Services in Java/J2EE and related technologies.    • Experienced in working on projects with Waterfall and Agile methodologies such as Test-Driven Development (TDD) and SCRUM.    • Proficient in using HTML5, CSS3, XML, XSL, XSLT, JAXP, JAXB, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, JSON, JSTL, Backbone JS, PHP, Express JS, YUI (yahoo UI) Ext JS, React JS, Node JS and AJAX meeting W3C standards.    • Experienced in code using Java 8 features like lambda expressions, streams, predicates and new date time API and a Web Application using Java with the Google Web Toolkit API with PostgreSQL.    • Experienced in Core Java concepts - Collection Framework, Exception Handling, IO, Serialization, Multi-threading, Concurrency etc.    • Experienced in designing and developing application based on Spring Framework, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring Templates, Hibernate, Microservices, AWS Web Services using Axis and Jersey Frame works, Java 8.    • Experienced in working on various Frameworks like Spring, Struts, JSF, and ORM Technologies like Hibernate, and IBatis, which implements JPA.    • Utilized microservice architecture with Spring Boot interacting combination of REST and apache Kafka and Clara message brokers.    • Proficient in Spring Core, spring batch, Spring security, spring boot, spring MVC and spring's integration with Hibernate and Struts technologies.    • Experienced in AWS (EC2, IAM, EBS, S3, RDS, SES, ELB, Cloud Formation, Elastic Cache, Cloud Watch, Lambda, SNS, Dynamo DB)    • Experienced in working and good understanding of Cloud Modules like Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) Platform as a Service (PaaS), Software as a Service (SaaS) and IT web Apps.    • Experienced in deploying, configuring and administering application servers such as IBM WebSphere, WebLogic, JBoss, JAX-WS, Glassfish and Apache Tomcat.    • Proficient in design, development, reviews in Microservices Framework with technologies involving Apache Kafka, Drools, Spring Boot, Kubernetes, Docker, Oracle DB. Developed multiple microsystems that communicated through RabbitMQ.    • Utilized design and development of various web and enterprise applications using Type safe technologies like Scala, Akka, Play framework, Slick.    • Proficient in using JavaScript/TypeScript to build interactive web pages and hands-on experience in JavaScript frameworks like jQuery, ReactJS and Handlebar JS.    • Experienced on Hibernate and used Hibernate Connection Pooling, HQL, Hibernate Caching.    • Experienced in using JSP and Servlets to create web interfaces and integrating apache tools like Kafka and worked on (JMS) MQ's like IBMMQ and Active MQ.    • Proficient in Grunt task runner and installed latest version of libraries with Bower based on running in the NodeJS environment.    • Experienced on API development using node JS, express JS and Mongoose.    • Experienced with various Applications servers and Web servers (IBM Web Sphere Application Server, WebLogic, JBoss, and Tomcat).    • Proficient in Design and Development of database systems using RDBMS concepts including Oracle, PostgreSQL, MySQL and experience in writing SQL queries, PL/SQL, T-SQL, Stored procedures, prepared statements and triggers.    • Experienced in one or more NoSQL Document Store databases such as MongoDB, Cassandra.    • Utilized automated functional testing tools like Selenium and test-driven development using Junit and debug tools like log4j.    • Utilized Selenium Web Driver and TestNG to run parallel testing by creating Groups and categorizing test cases.    • Developed and maintained automation framework using Ruby and Selenium WebDriver.    • Experienced in writing Build Scripts using Shell Scripts, ANT, MAVEN and using CI (Continuation Integration)tools like Continuum, Jenkins and Hudson.    • Expertise in writing JUnit test cases using Junit Frameworks like Mockito and JMock.    • Proficient in working with Jasmin-Karma, Protractor for client-side unit testing and experienced on working client-side build tools like NPM, Grunt, Gulp, Bower.    • Utilized Maven and ANT as build script for application build and deployment, Junit and log4j for unit testing and logging and Client-side java script Unit testing tools such as Jasmine along with karma, coffee, Jest, mocha, chai scripts. Work Experience JAVA DEVELOPER HERSHY'S,Derry Township,PA January 2018 to Present • Involved in Client Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of the application using AGILE methodology (SCRUM)  • Developed UI pages using HTML5, Angular 4, Bootstrap, CSS3, jQuery, AJAX and NodeJS.  • Validated the data using JavaScript. Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, XHTML and JavaScript Strong Web Technology and Scripting languages experience with HTML5/4, CSS3/CSS, JSP, AJAX, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, AngularJS, and Node JS.  • Reverse engineered shell application and redesigned in Java using Spring, Maven, and Hibernate.  • Used JUnit for local testing; used Maven-based testing to run local server and simulate web servers (applied to both RESTful and SOAP web services). Exposed to SOAPUI.  • Involved in CI/CD process using GIT, Nexus, Jenkins job creation, Maven build, Create Docker image and deployment in AWS environment.  • Developing Applications using latest Java/J2EE technologies such as Cassandra, Java 8, Junit.  • Extensively worked in designing and implementation of multi-tier applications using Java 8, J2EE.  • Used new Java 8 features, such as Lambda expressions, Streams and Functional Interfaces.  • Designed and developed using the Java collection API with Java 8 features and other java processes to fulfill business case requirement, such clients account statements and clients running balance based on each transaction.  • Worked with Java 8 Lambda for adding functionality processing capability and Stream API to facilitate pipeline processing and used Filter method to eliminate elements based on the criteria  • Implemented Spring Boot services in combination with Angular as front end to form a Microservice Oriented application .Experienced on spring framework applications like Spring Core, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring Batch, Spring Security and Spring Boot and did integration to Micro services into existing system architecture.  • Used MongoDB to store claims data to do data analysis and generate reports which are helpful for organization to monitor and analyze the claims trend  • Worked with messaging frameworks (ActiveMQ, RabbitMQ, Kafka). Experience on Apache Kafka, used for Messaging broker, Log Aggregation and Stream processing. Developed applications using MQ Series.  • Assisted team mate in setting up Hibernate framework, configured mapping.xml files, wrote PL/SQL stored procedures. Wrote PL/SQL stored procedures and triggers  • Created REST API implementation using Spring Boot framework and writing test cases for those API's. Used Multi-Threading and collection framework including List, Map etc.  • Used NoSQL database Amazon Dynamo DB to store data of reporting Application.  • Implemented RabbitMQ client to read incoming notifications that are placed on queue.  • Developed fully functional responsive modules based on Business Requirements using Scala with Akka, Arango DB. Used Scala for the concurrency and synchronizing process for the functional yet Object-Oriented features.  • Created Docker images, Containers, push/pull and integrating with Spring Boot for running applications. Extensively used Core Java such as Exceptions, I/O, Multithreading and Collections.  • Developed Angular JS frontend for the application using Angular JS controllers, partial views and routers and services Designed, developed a custom, single page, responsive web application on front end using AngularJS. Used AngularJS to connect the web application to back-end APIs, used RESTFUL methods to interact with several API's, and wrote custom directives for a responsive, CSS-animated user interface.  • Used ReactJS and AngularJS for building web-apps and is highly efficient in integrating with Restful services.  • Responsible for the server administration (Apache Tomcat) and system source code version control. Standardized project and department by integrating with Maven, SVN, Jira, and Confluence.  • Setup and build AWS infrastructure various resources, VPC EC2, S3, IAM, EBS, Security Group, Auto-Scaling, and RDS in Cloud Formation JSON templates.  • Configure and deploy Amazon Web Services (AWS) Lambda service to run codes in response to events and automatically manage resources. Writing the code using Lambda Expression and StreamAPI on JDK. Developed API for using AWS Lambda to manage the servers and run the code in AWS.  • Analyzed current legacy infrastructure, established business case, and build consensus for virtualized IaaS/ PaaS near term strategy with SaaS mobile cloud services end state.  • Excellence experience in AWS cloud computing mostly for building, testing, web services like SaaS PaaS and IaaS.  • Worked on AWS cloud resources which includes launching, maintaining and troubleshooting of EC2 Good experience on checking in/ checking out CI's in Oracle Repository Manager.  • Developed unit test using tools like Mockito to check correctness of functionality.  • Designed and developed business logic using UML Modeling tools, code complexity tools.  • Worked on AWS cloud resources which includes launching, maintaining and troubleshooting of EC2.  • Involved in converting Hive/SQL queries into Spark transformations using Spark RDDs,and Scala.  • Hands on experience in Automated and Manual testing with AngularJS framework (Karma, Jasmine, Protractor) and Mocha, Chai for ReactJS.  • Extensive experience with ReactJS/ Redux tech stack, implement React to build UI components, Redux for managing app state and interaction.  • Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in NodeJS.  • Hands on experience with Terraform scripts and designed and developed API specification with testing case (Swagger)  • Tracked the bugs and improvements through JIRA and handled the project with GIT version control. Java Developer COLGATE-PALMOLIVE, NY August 2016 to December 2017 Involved in the design and development phases of Agile Software Development. Developed the application using Spring Framework that leverages classical Model View Controller (MVC) architecture.  Developed complete Web tier of the application with Spring MVC framework.  • Used MVC architecture to develop Web Components Servlets, JSPs and Web Services both SOAP and REST based , WebSphere Portal, Hibernate, Spring, JSF.  • Designed, developed and maintained the data layer using Hibernate and performed configuration of Spring Application Framework.  • Developed the Application Framework using Model-View-Controller Architecture using the technologies Spring, Hibernate and DOJO.  • Worked on the Spring and hibernate integration from the scratch.  • Developed various web applications /web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, React JS, NodeJS.  • Created reusable components using typescript on the client side in Angular Js, used fast data access purpose React Js, NodeJS.  • Implemented various tasks which would help in building the UI code by minifying the HTML5, CSS3 and JS code using gulp, NodeJS.  • Developed front-end code with Ajax call in AngularJS, ReactJS and jQuery to retrieve data as JSON Object from controllers, and then display the well-organized result in web pages by writing AngularJS controller, directives, services, and route providers.  • Developed user interface by using the ReactJs, Redux for SPA development and implemented client-side Interface using ReactJs .Performed Unit testing on ReactJS applications using Jasmine.  • Developed Java based Web App for internal portal (PLM) using modern frameworks like Spring Boot, Spring MVC, RESTful Web Services, LESS and jQuery.  • Used spring security features to impersonate user without password by making use of RESTful web services.  • Developed Representational state transfer (REST) based services and Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) based services.  • Consumed REST based microservices with Rest template based on RESTful APIs.  • Created RESTful Web Service based on Jersey Restful API, provide data accessibility.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for RESTAPI's and Spring Boot for Microservices.  • Developed microservices to load the data from DynamoDB to Kafka topics for reporting and Used Git to control the build version  • Used Apache Kafka cluster as messaging system between the Microservices.  • Used Apache Kafka for keeping the track of all the activities on the website, used for some of the large-scale message processing applications and Inter process messaging for temporary storage of messages rather than the messages being stored in long term memory storages.  • Implemented the function to send and receive AMQP messages on RabbitMQ synchronously and asynchronously and send JMS message to Apache ActiveMQ on the edge device.  • Used RabbitMQ Queues for implementation of multithreaded synchronization processes and used JMS queues for consumption requests.  • Configured RabbitMQ as JMS service provider, for processing service requests  asynchronously (MDB) with backend and integrated applications.  • Designed, built, and deployed a multitude application utilizing almost all the AWS stack (Including EC2, MongoDB focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling).  • Responsible to install, configure, monitor systems developed on Cloud IaaS environments with Pivotal Cloud Foundry PaaS running on top of it.  • Involved in setting up AWS services with EC2 instances, S3 bucket, IAM, RDS took part in deploying application in AWS  • Extensively used Hibernate framework for Object Relational Mapping. Developed JUnit based unit test classes.  • Developed and implemented GUI Functionality using GSP, Groovy, and AJAX, JavaScript, jQuery.  • Developed automation test scripts using Selenium Web Driver and Java.  • Performed repetitive tasks like modification, building, compiling, Unit testing using Grunt.  Involved in implementing spring dependency injection for a maven project using Annotation.  Used spring modules (annotations) i.e. Spring Core, IOP, AOP, Security, spring batch and spring boot.  • Used using Maven, Grade for auto uniform building of our project.  • Involved in implementing authentication and authorization to our application using spring security.  • Wrote PL/SQL in Oracle Database for creating tables, triggers and select statements. Java Developer MICROSOFT CORPORATION - IN May 2014 to December 2015 India  • Involved in writing Hibernate annotation-based mapping java classes with Oracle Database tables. Implemented JMS API for messaging.  • Involved in designing and developing of Object-Oriented methodologies using UML and created Use Case, Class, Sequence diagrams.  • Implemented Multithreaded concepts in java classes to avoid deadlocking.  • Created Core java Interfaces and Abstract classes for different functionalities.  • Wrote Spring Core and Spring MVC files to associate DAO with Business Layer.  • Created Data Source and deployed web application in the IBM WebSphere application Server.  • Implemented JSF in Presentation layer programming using JSTL, AJAX, GWT Development.  • Worked with HTML, DHTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, JSON in UI pages. Used PL/SQL procedures also.  • Created controller Servlets for handling HTTP requests from JSP pages.  • Wrote JavaScript functions for various validation purposes. Wrote Java Beans to contain data objects. Implemented session beans, entity beans and message driven beans.  • Developed client user interface using JSPs and Servlets.  • Used Version Control Tool to perform Checking-out and Checking-in of codes from the repository.  • Developed web services in Java and proficient with SOAP.  • Developed and maintained Ant Scripts for the build purposes on testing and production environments. Education MS in Computer Science in Computer Science Northwestern Polytechnic University 2017 Skills Application server, C/c++, C++, Html, Javascript Additional Information SKILLS    Technology: Java, Core Java Object Oriented and multi-threaded Programming, J2EE, JDBC, JavaScript, JSP, EJB, Servlets, XML, HTML.  Languages: Java, SQL, PL/SQL, Flex, C/C++(academic experience only)  Application Frameworks: Spring(IOC, ORM, DAO, AOP), MVC (Struts), Flex Cairngorm  Data Access Frameworks: Hibernate, iBatis  SOA: SOAP/Restful web services  Testing Frameworks: JUnit, Flex unit  Database: DB2, Sybase, SQL Server, Oracle, Teradata  Build/Deployment Tools: Ant, Encore, Jenkins  Development Tools: RAD, Net Beans, Eclipse, Oracle PL/SQL Developer, TOAD, Flex Builder  Application Server: IBM Web sphere, Web logic, Apache Tomcat  Methodologies: Agile methods, SCRUM, Waterfall