Android Developer Android <span class="hl">Developer</span> Android Developer - Rock well collins Cedar Rapids, IA • 8+ years of experience in J2EE / J2SE and Google Android development using Java , Android SDK , SQL Lite, Eclipse , Android Debugger , Phone Gap ( Cross Platform tools ).  • Experience includes developing applications on various technologies including Android, JME and Blackberry, Symbian's, and Window.  • Comprehensive understanding of Android application architecture, UI components & controls, Intents, Application classes like Activity, Service, Intent Receiver, Content Provider to manage data.  • Proficiency in working with multi - threaded apps, XML&JSON, and web services.  • Mobile base social networking application (Void- Audio based tute application, Rocke Talk - Messaging app).  • Experience in using Fragments, Activity workflow, Action Bar Navigation, Menu designs, custom views, and Loaders.  • Implemented various 3rd party libraries that are available in the market for improving the performance of the application. Libraries like Picasso, GSON, Retrofit, Butter knife, Leak Canary, and Mix panel & Appetitive.  • XML, JSON Parsing, Restful Services, Criticism, Social Logins SDK, GCM/Firebase Push Notifications, Fresh Desk SDK, Video Cipher OTP, Media Player, Android Web view, Core Java, JavaScript's, Object Oriented Programming, SDLC Agile, MVC, MVP.  • Knowledge of Appium and android Automation and Jenkins. Android2.3 and higher version.  • Different Layout usage, Handling HTTP Request in Android device.  • Developed Mobile Device Management (MDM) product, enabling BYOD for the enterprise.  • Good Knowledge on Notifications, Toast, Locations and Map API, graphics.  • Dedicated to Android application performance, security, and efficiency.  • GPS system, Google Map API. (Latitude and Longitude, Marker), API for Facebook.  • Worked on RX Java, Dagger Dependency Injection in Android.  • Proficient with common Android Framework API's (Email, Web View, Contact Manager, Camera, Notifications).  • Retrofit and MVP pattern knowledge and worked on crash reporting tools like ACRA, Criticism.  • Strong analytical and troubleshooting skills, resourceful, innovative, inventive.  • Experience with source code control management such as subversion ( SVN ) and GIT and Team  • Foundation Server (TFS) and issue trackers like JIRA and Kanban Trello.  • Confidence in working with other IOS developers to complete detailed projects.  • Worked on Library like OkHttp, Volley, and Retrofit.  • Expert in object-oriented programming principles, strong working knowledge of design patterns, and proficient in clean code best practices  • Expertise in working with public API's such as Facebook, Google Maps, GCM.  • Hands on experience with Android Unit testing and used tools like J-Unit and Monkey Runner.  • Knowledge of Web service for parsing XML and JSON data (Rest Web service).  • Web Services knowledge (Rest Web service) for parsing XML and JSON using SAX Parser and Dom Parser both.  • Layout Designing, Updating JSON data in List View using List Adapter.  • Simple Adapter and Different adapter class, Maintain SVG file in PNG Using Ink space Tools.  • The connection of Android using PHP, SQLite, MySQL.  • Experienced with Android testing frameworks and proficient writing clean unit test cases.  • Specializing in applying object-oriented principles and time proven design patterns to platform development.  • Working Experience in architecture design skills proved by complex applications designed from scratch.  • Excellent Communication Skills, Self-motivated, Quick learner, and excellent team mentor & player, ability to meet deadlines. Work Experience Android Developer Rock well collins - Cedar Rapids, IA August 2018 to Present Description: Rockwell Collins was a multinational corporation company headquartered in Cedar Rapids, Iowa providing avionics and information technology systems and services to government agencies and aircraft manufacturers. At Collins Aerospace, we work side-by-side with our customers to tackle the toughest challenges in aerospace and defense. We're combining boundless imagination with a broad portfolio and an unmatched dedication to customers - all to make the skies and spaces we touch smarter, safer and more amazing than ever. We are redefining aerospace.    Responsibilities:  • Discussed the requirements with the client and documented the requirements.  • Prepare the prototype based on the client requirement and share to client manager.  • Involved in designing the interface along with the Design and UX team for better usability and handling across Android and maintain their relative nativity (phones and tablets).  • Developed user-friendly user-interfaces using widgets like Menus, Dialogs, Different Layouts, Buttons, Edit boxes.  • Use frameworks and libraries such as RxJava for event-bussing, and Dagger 2 for dependency injection.  • Created Selection widgets like List View using Array Adapters and Scroll View as per client need.  • Involved in "send text" and numbers to the handset using the PC keyboard using SMS Manager.  • Versatile to identify the root cause of application issues while working on Android devices.  • Making the Restful Service Calls using Retrofit Library at the various stages of the app development cycle and parsing the responses back from the web servers according to the application requirement.  • Used GPS provider to quickly find allocation using Location Manager and navigates the directions to the nearest bank or ATM.  • Designed the Custom Dialog using the Fragment Activity.  • Designed the Custom Action bar, Custom Progress bar while making service calls. Consumed restful web services to fetch user profile and daily transaction details report data.  • Worked closely with another mobile app developer, leading the other platform development.  • Used Dalvik Debugging Monitoring Service (DDMS) for monitoring log activity, threads, network connectivity, errors, and memory allocation.  • Identifying Critical/Crash/Hidden defects in applications using mobile apps and Ability to give suggestions for a quick fix by analysing logs.  • Tested the app across different versions of Android and different android phones to assure quality and performance.  • Worked with Android Espresso for unit testing and instrumentation testing.  • Proficient in creating test data for Business users, Personal users, Commercial users and used to unit test and requirement validation purpose.  • Working in agile methodology, working as ateam player and participating in daily stand-up meetings and involved with scrum project estimation meeting on bi-weekly.    Environment: Android SDK, Android 6.0(Marshmallow), SQLite, Android Studio, XML Web service, JDK 1.8, Log cat, GIT (version control), DDMS console, Jenkins, JSON Web Services, Trace View, Log cat, Windows 7. Android Developer Eli Lilly - Indianapolis, IN May 2017 to July 2018 Description: Lilly was founded in 1876 by Colonel Eli Lilly, a man committed to creating high-quality medicines that met real needs in an era of unreliable elixirs peddled by questionable characters. His charge to the generations of employees who have followed was this: "Take what you find here and make it better and better.    Responsibilities:  • Understanding the client requirements and collecting information about the project.  • Developing the MVC and MVP architecture.  • Integrated Android SDK using Eclipse IDE and Android Studio.  • Worked closely with the web application development team to ensure proper integration between mobile application and web application.  • Implementing complex custom layout designs for the applications without any memory leaks.  • Use of open source libraries/tools including RXJava.  • Integrating lessons from the internal server and made application flexible to update changes at any point of time using SVN.  • Implementing application to support different screen sizes.  • Developing screens using XML, 9-patch and integrated them into the application.  • Handled JSON and Rest Client web services to get and send data.  • Integrating GCM Notifications and handled app without any memory leaks.  • Debugging and Root cause analysis of Development issues  • Responsible for consuming the REST services, getting JSON response and parsing them to get the required information.  • Implemented unique design for portrait and landscape mode.  • Implemented SQLite database.  • Work closely with the web application development team to ensure proper integration between mobile application and web application.  • Debugging and Root cause analysis of production issues.  • Involved in Project Handover Process with Third Party.  • Involved in feature testing and proactively fixed bugs well ahead of the release.  • Worked on a WINCE based prototype for the hardware using the Free scale PCB board  • Developed the programming modules for Menu Browsing, Categories, Ordering, and Bill summary.  • Tested the application on various Android devices.  • Providing Post Production support in the form of Work Requests.    Environment: Android SDK 2.2, Eclipse IDE 3.5, ADT Plugin, JDK 1.6, XML, JSON, HTML, CSS, SQLite, Web Services, Trace View, Log cat, Windows 7. Android Developer CopartInc - Dallas, TX January 2016 to April 2017 Description: This application gives access to thousands of salvage and clean title cars in vehicle auctions every day. User can scan barcodes at a Copart location to quickly find the details of any vehicle. Users can add vehicles to watch list and place bids in Copart's online auto auctions. Vehicle Finder tool is added in app to quickly find vehicles or search online inventory by type, year, make, model, location.    Responsibilities:  • Developed the User Interface layers and the web modules for the activities including Home Screen, Sign In, Profile, Settings, and Questions.  • Worked with Broadcast Receivers to receive system notification which was later used to send out reminders.  • Used Android SDK 2.0 and Eclipse IDE for development.  • Utilized web-services (HTTP based, XML, SOAP, JSON or other services), in order to tie our applications to critical server-side A PIs.  • Served as a technical lead within the company to develop the technology stack.  • Dalvik Debug Monitor Server (DDMS) for debugging and testing.  • Constructed the user interface by using list view, custom view, compound view and various layouts.  • Used the Fragment capabilities to handle multiport views and different screen size devices.  • Tested the user interface implementing Espresso.  • Implemented Material design feature of Recycler View, toolbar, Card View.  • Tested the application on various devices and emulators to determine compatibility.  • Incorporated the communication between the application and the other Android applications backed by the customer.  • Integrating lessons from the internal server and made application flexible to update changes at any point of time using SVN.  • Implemented full social network integration with Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube SDKs.  • Created Widgets to help customers manage the launcher.  • Creating SharePoint site for the Bid Smart Application.  • Handled JSON and Rest Client web services to get and send data.  • Debugged and tested the application using Roblectric.  • Created Selection widgets like List View using Array Adapters and Scroll View as per client need.  • Including support for backward animation using Nine Old Android library.  • Providing Support and Development on Lotus Notes in the project.  • Requirement gathering and preparing the detailed system designing document  • Performing testing and writing test cases.  • Providing support on Lotus Notes Mailing server.  • Implemented Dagger to work with a Dependency Injection environment to help with the unit testing.    Environment: Android Studio, Android 4.0 and up versions, Android SDK 4.1, Java 1.6, SQLite 3.0, Junit, DDMS Android Developer First Data - Austin, TX March 2014 to December 2015 Description: This project is to use your smart phone to easily accept credit and signature debit card payments anywhere using wireless coverage. The powerful Mobile Pay app is easily downloadable to your Android device, turning it into a mini credit card transaction terminal that performs as a traditional wireless terminal, but at a lower cost. First Data deals with Retail, eCommerce and financial institutions can manage transactions more efficiently.    Responsibilities:  • Worked in different phases of the project cycle like design, development, and testing.  • Discussed the requirements with the client and documented the requirements  • Developed the activities and UI layers  • Regular interaction of Restful API design calls to populate the UI on the app using GET,PUT,POST and DELETE.  • Used Android SDK and Eclipse IDE for development.  • Implemented optimized performance List View's in different points of the app.  • Implemented Fragments to make the app usable on both Smart phones and Tablets.  • Worked on Generic Grids and Custom List Views to list the XML feeds.  • Developed the app to adapt to different orientations (Landscape/Portrait) and various resolutions (dpi/ mdpi/ hdpi) based on the device.  • Designed and implemented all the basic UI and screen navigation with Navigation Bar.  • Implemented the XML Parser class to parse the XML feed from the URL.  • Worked on testing the application using the J-Unit testing framework.  • Worked on locating nearby the Bank and ATMs with respect to the customer location/zip code entered with the ability to navigate to the branch or ATM or call the branch location directly.  • Linked it to Google maps to provide the address and navigation.  • Contributed in Database Management.  • Contributed in code debugging using Logcatand DDMS.  • Value-added services - Entertainment, media, Infotainment  • Mobile Prepaid recharge services  • New product information and demonstration  • Implementation of UI for Various Samsung Devices.  • Implementing the custom layouts and custom views.  • Services beyond Telecom - Movie tickets etc.  • Involved in the implementation of enabling search feature for particular links.  • Tested the app across different versions of Android and different android phones to assure quality and performance.    Environment: Android SDK 2.2, Eclipse IDE 3.5, ADT Plug in, JDK 1.6, XML, JSON. Java Developer Purple Talk Inc - Hyderabad, Telangana December 2012 to February 2014 Description: Purple Talk is about Digital Innovation, building a culture of excellence and exploring new frontiers to bring unique solutions for business problems.    Responsibilities:  • Used agile methodology for developing the application.  • Deployed the application on the Jboss server using ANT tool using struts architecture with the JSP client  • Configured Struts Dyna Action Forms, Message Resources, Action Message, Action Errors, Validation.xml, and validator-rules.xml  • As part of the lifecycle development prepared the class model, sequence model, and flow diagrams by analysing Use cases using Rational Tools.  • Used Multi-Threading concepts in application Management for alternate uses and implemented Exception Handling and Errors.  • Reviewing and analysing data model for developing the Presentation layer and Value Objects.  • Extensive use of Struts Framework for Controller components and view components.  • Involved in writing the exception and validation classes using Struts validation rules.  • Used OR mapping tool Hibernate for the interaction with the database.  • Developed various java objects (POJO) as part of persistence classes for OR mapping.  • Developed tabs with rollover effect using JavaScript plus other effects  • Developed web services using SOAP and WSDL with Axis for Integrating.  • Developed, implemented, and maintained an asynchronous, AJAX based rich client for improved customer experience using XML data and XSLT templates.  • Involved in writing the parsers for parsing and building the XML documents using SAX and DOM Parsers.  • Developed SQL stored procedures and prepared statements for updating and accessing data from the database.  • Developed the Dao's using SQL and Data Source Object.  • Development carried out under Eclipse Integrated Development Environment (IDE).  • Used JBoss for deploying various components of application  • Used Ant for building Scripts.  • Used JUnit for testing and check API performance.  • Used log4j for application & error logging.  • Used Clear case Version Control for Project Configuration Management.    Environment: Java1.7, J2EE, JSP, Servlet, Struts 2. 0 , Agile - Scrum Methodology , JDBC, Eclipse , Oracle 11g, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS, Tomcat v7, Restful Web Service, Angular.js Java Developer Silver Cloud Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2011 to November 2012 Description: This app shows the list of stores available in the mall. By using this app user can easily find out what are the offers provided in each store. We have also added mall related social network sites like FB, Twitter, LinkedIn etc. User can add a store as his favorite store. By using Share option, users can share app information via Bluetooth, WhatsApp, face book, Twitter etc. Included Google maps which shows where the mall is located.    Responsibilities:  • Participated in the entire life cycle (Software Development Life Cycle) of the project right from the initial requirements gathering to the implementation.  • Used agile methodology and effectively took part in Scrum gatherings to deliver quality deliverables within time (extensively used Scrum Do for Project Management).  • Participated in business process analysis and requirement gathering for new customization.  • Created Use cases, Sequence Diagrams, Class Diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Designed and developed User Interface, application modules using JSP, spring, Servlets, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Extensively used Twitter Bootstrap to develop the front end of the application.  • Used Angular JS JavaScript framework to bind data to HTML using expressions.  • Integrated Tiles 3 framework with Spring MVC to simplify the development of User Interface.  • Developed some part of the application using Spring-MVC and IOC/Dependency Injection integrating different layers of the application.  • Wrote DAO classes to interface with Database using hibernate.  • Defined Object Relational Mapping for Hibernate and performed spring integration with Hibernate for data access.  • Expertise in using Named queries to pull all HQL data using annotations.  • Wrote code for consuming a Restful Web service with Angular JS.  • Created dynamic and interactive Data visualizations with D3 charts and Angular JS.  • Performed indexing and searching on large documents using Apache Lucene.  • Used Apache Tika for text attraction from documents  • Implemented Java Persistence API (JPA) through Hibernate.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4J and fixed the problems.  • Developed logic and code for the registration and validation  • Learned and implemented Java design patterns like Front Controller,Service Locator, Business Delegate, and Data Access Object, Factory Pattern, Session Fade, etc  • Used transaction Management to coordinate transactions among various resources in the application.  • Used Web Services to exchange information. Used SOAP framework and WSDL.  • Design and developed caching framework EhCache to cache the site data  • Used SoapUI to manually connect to the web server and check data.  • Parsed XML , JSON responses received in Java code through Web Services  • Used JUnit for test cases  • Extensively participated in the code and peer review of the project.  • Participated in meetings weekly status report and also involved in web operations with clients for gathering required information.    Environment: Java 1.7, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Hibernate, Spring, PostgreSQL, Apache Tomcat Application Server, REST and SOAP Web services, Servlets, UML, Rational Rose, CVS, Log4J, Unix, Win XP, Eclipse, SoapUI, Scrum Do, WINDOWS,HTML, JavaScript, AJAX,XML,JSON Twitter Bootstrap, AngularJS Education Bachelor's Skills C++, Gui, Javascript, Bootstrap, Json, Orm, Pvcs, Python, Subversion, Svn, Visio, Xml, Xslt, Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jax, Jax-ws Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages Java 8, J2EE, SQL, C, C++, Python  Operating Systems Windows (10/8.1), Ubuntu, Mac  Android  OSAndroid 2.x to Android 8.x ( clair, Froyo, Gingerbread, Honeycomb, Ice cream sandwich, Jellybean, Kit Kat, Lollipop, Marshmallow, Nougat, Oreo).    Web Development JavaScript, HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, CSS, XML, XSLT, XSD, AJAX, GWT, JAX-WS.  Testing Frameworks Application Unit Testing, Android Unit Testing, Robotium, UIAutomator, and Espresso.  Databases Oracle, MySQL, MSSQL Server, Sybase, PostgreSQL, MongoDB.  IDE Eclipse, IntelliJ, NetBeans, IBM Rational Application Developer (RAD)  OpenGL  ES, PhoneGap, Apache Cordova, layout design, fragments, multi-threading, NDK sensors, Beacons. OpenGL-ES, layout design, fragments, multi-threading, lifecycle, NDK sensors, multi-touch, profiling NFC, Beacons, Retrofit, Rxjava2, Dagger2, Butter Knife.    Data Access Objects, object Oriented design, Model View Controller Architecture and Front Controller.  Version controls SVM, GitHub, RStudio, Spyder, Octave GUI, KNIME, Coggle.  Web Services JBoss, WebLogic, WebSphere, Tomcat, Jetty, Apache  Frameworks Spring (MVC, AOP, ORM, Web Service, DAO, Social, Security, etc.), Hibernate ORM, Bootstrap, Struts, Tiles, DWR (Direct Web Remoting)  Other Tools Swing, Agile, RUP, Subversion, Jasper, Reports, JMock, Microsoft Visio.  Design/Version Control Rational Clear Case, CVS and Tortoise SVN and PVCS  Parsing Techniques JSON Parsing and XML Parsing.