AWS Engineer AWS Engineer AWS Engineer Addison, TX • Consistently high-performing Information Technology professional withoverall 4years of experience in delivering business value through innovation and continuous improvement.  • Currently working as DevOps engineer/Build and release implementing applications using RTC, make file, Python, Maven Perl, Jenkins, GIT, CAN messages, Docker and Batch Files to achieve continuous integration and continuous Deployment.  • Hands on experience in standing up AWS accounts, migratingworkloads, enforcing security and automation best practices.  • Hands on experience in installing and administrating CI tools like GIT, Hudson/Jenkins, Sonar, Subversion, Fisheye and Nexus.  • Performed integration of Code Quality Analysis Techniques like Check styles, Find Bugs, PMD with CI tools like Hudson/Jenkins.  • Comprehensive knowledge on configuration management tools like Chef and Ansible.  • Strong Hands on experience in configuring authentications for accessing HUE, Hive, Presto applications on AWS EMR Service.  • Experience in creating OOZIE workflows and executing them as Stepactions on EMR clusters.  • Full stack developer leveraging AWS Cloud, Microservices, Continuous Integration, and regularly adapting to latest toolset including AWS Lambda, Docker, etc.  • Experience with source control management software, such as Subversion SVN, Git, Bitbucket.  • Experience in Build Automation tools like Jenkins and Bamboo  • Hands on experience in creating VPNs between AWS VPC and customers datacenters using SOPHOS  • Experience includes creating dashboards, reports and alerts in Splunk and Kibana.  • Provides design guidance for modern cloud projects and integrationwith legacy applications.  • Experience with Disaster Recovery setup and implementation of costoptimization techniques using automation scripts Ruby and Python.  • Experienced in creating Mobile automation testing framework from scratch for Native Apps (IOS and Android) and Web BasedApplications which includesWebdriverIO (wdio), NodeJS, JavaScript, NPM, Java, Selenium, TestNG, Cucumber, Appium, Maven and Jenkins  • Passionate about technology, quick learner, hands-on, hard worker, great problem solver, team player and mentor.  • Exposure to all stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Agile methodology Work Experience AWS Engineer Otsuka Pharmaceuticals - Princeton, NJ January 2018 to November 2018 Responsibilities:  • Worked on Design architecture, deployment, and maintenance of clients' on-premise infrastructure comprised of several multiple nodes on AWS platform.  • Worked on migration of clients on-premise Mongo dB database to aws cloud using migration tools  • Setting up AWS infrastructure by creating public, private subnets, Route Tables, NAT devices, VPC- Peering  • Creating required Security Groups, IAM Roles for specified EC-2 Instances  • Configured ELB to route traffic to instances sitting on different availability zones and added them to Auto-Scaling group to achieve high availability.  • Used VS Code to access the application code and worked on implementing the code to achieve required functionalities.  • Worked on Installing Mongo DB and Nodejs applications on an EC2 instance for development.  • Installed MongoDB Enterprise edition to use it for client data storage on aEC2 instance.  • Enabled Mongo dB Authentication and attached User Role to the required database to Securely authenticate mongo shell from command line.  • Successfully migrated the collections stored in on-premise Database to MongoDB running on EC2 in aws cloud.  • Migrated the On-premise application codes to aws cloud.  • Worked on backing up S3 bucket data to Ec2 Instance by running the backup script using cron job.  • Configured and maintained SVN as version control tool to use it as a code repository.  • Used AWS ELASTIC Beanstalk to deploy Nodejs application code.  • Worked in creating Cloud formation templates to enable deployment of an entire stacks.  • Currently working on setting up Cloud Watch Alarmsmonitor the load on the instances and to trigger if the load is too high or low.  • Created S3 buckets to use it for storing the Image files coming from the client applications.  • Closely worked on the infrastructure documentation for HIPPA compliance.  • Worked on planning and Implementing the required ENCRYPTION, BACKUP OF DATA, and AUDIT for HIPPA compliance.  • Created IAM role for S3 Bucket access and Installed AWS CLI on the instance to access the S3 Buckets.  • Enabled VPC Flow Logs and attached to CloudWatch Logs for monitoring for Audit Logs and enabled mongo side audit logs from config file.    Environment: EC2, Mongo, Nodejs, Python Scripting, Linux (Red Hat), JSON, VPC (virtual private cloud), AMI (Amazon machine image), CFT (cloud formation template) AWS/Devops Engineer Orion Inc - Edison, NJ August 2017 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Setup AWS infrastructure by creating public, private subnets, Route Tables, NAT devices, VPC- Peering, Bastion hosts and defining ACL's for enhanced secured at subnet level.  • Enabled enhanced security at instance level by creating Security Groups, IAM Roles specific for EC-2 instances.  • Used AWS API for python to manipulate the resources such as EC-2, S3 to list and check the instances.  • Maintained high availability and elasticity in cloud by configuring ELB to route traffic to healthy instances in different availability zones and adding them to the Auto-Scaling group to spin up and down the EC-2 instances based on cloud watch alarms.  • Implemented additional layer of security for S3 buckets by defining customized bucket policies, enabling multi-factor authentication for accidental deletion and enabling CLOUD TRAIL to track API calls for auditing all AWS resources.  • Reduced AWS billing costs by applying Lifecycle Policies and Expiration policies on S3 buckets and taking proactive measures for accidental deletion of objects in S3 by enabling versioning.  • Automated CI-CD pipeline using Jenkins API's/SDK's such as Jenkins with Python to automate all aspects of the pipeline and also across multiple Jenkins masters.  • Configured End-End CI-CD pipelines with Jenkins file using Ant, Junit, Git, Ansible, SonarQube, Docker by defining stages for Junit testing, Jar packaging, Functional testing on Docker containers, SonarQube code analysis, deployment through ansible playbook and triggering notifications post success all this automatically triggered by a git commit and promoting to other environments.  • Organized Ansible Playbooks as Roles for reuse such as created roles for Apache, MySQL, Docker, Jenkins, and Nagios for including them in other ansible playbooks instead of constructing from scratch.  • Configured multiple Control-M jobs to create and terminate EMR clusters.  • Created a custom Python script to check and issue success signal based on EMR step action status.  • Implemented multiple Bamboo build plans and deploy plans using JAVA  • Enabled LDAP authentication for accessing HUE UI using Ansible playbooks and run during cluster creation automatically.  • Developed a custom Bash Script to retrieve service account's password from ID vault server residing at vanguard's on-premises.  • Responsible in generating Splunk reports and alerts based on the logs generated from EMR clusters.  • Implemented lambda function to terminate the EMR clusters in non-prod environments based on tags values.  Environment: EC2, Python scripting, Bash Scripting, Bamboo, Python, Java, HUE UI, LADP (Light Weight Directory Access Protocol) DevOps Engineer Value Labs - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2016 to November 2016 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for Builds, Deployment of apps into different Environment Support.  • Experienced in defining various branching, labelling and merging strategies.  • Deployments of DEV, TEST, UAT into different environments.  • Troubleshooting network and system related problems.  • Troubleshoot Build issues and coordinate with development team on resolving those build issues.  • Installed and configured Jenkins with different tools (plug-ins) for continues integration process.  • Maintain knowledge base to track different issues encountered.  • Automating manual tasks using Shell scripts.  • Providing on Call Support to the Corporate and to the 24x7 System Support Designing, implementing and supporting fully automated Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery processes  • Application/Web Server Log files analysis to troubleshoot application problems on application and web server side.  • Create new environments for deploying applications.  • Involved in Build and Deployment activities.  • Good Understanding of Software Development Life Cycle.  • Alert Handling and Troubleshooting for all applications.  • Perform deployments on different environments like QA and Production environments.  • Perform deployments of Java artifacts on Apache Tomcat application server.  • Experience with Build Management tools Ant and Maven for writing build. xmls.  • Troubleshoot all the issues related to Linux OS and provide support for all DEV and QA environments  • Volume management and Creating EBS volumes and assignment. For storage managing EBS and S3.  • Installation and setup of volume management for data backup and storage. Additionally, using logical volume management (LVM) on Linux platforms  • Performed routine management of Linux environment like monitoring Disk Space and CPU Utilization.  • Created and modified users and groups with SUDO permission. Java Developer Infotech Solutions April 2015 to December 2015 Description: Cisco ANA (Active Network Abstraction) is a flexible andpowerful vendor-neutral device management system that doubles as an enabling platform for value-added network and service management applications in a multi technology (IP, Ethernet, and so on.), multiservice network environment.    Responsibilities:    • Developing VNE Drivers parsers for Juniper, Alcatel and Huawei Devices. (Juniper MX, M and T series)    • Developing L2/L3 Technologies which are supported by non-Cisco devices.    • Responsible for developing VNEs for new software versions and network modules.    • Design and developed Link Aggregation Group (LAG) protocol -- a feature of ANA    • Performed inventory testing for Juniper devices.    • Worked on VNE Customization Builder - a feature of ANA.    • Developing and testing Traps and Syslog's handling code for Juniper, Tellabs, Alcatel and Cisco devices.    • Involved in documenting SFS and product reference guide.    • Involved in unit testing and bug fixing.    • Worked in Agile Methodology - BDD approach.    • Involved in daily Scrum meetings, Retrospective meetings on the on-going Sprints & respective Stories.    • Designed & executed automation test scripts using Java as a programming language.    • Setting up the Mobile Automation Framework from scratch using Appium, Cucumber, Selenium, Java, TestNG and Jenkins pipelines for Mobile Automation Testing.    Environment:VNE, ANA, SFS, Java, TestNG, Jenkins, LAG (Link Aggregation Groups), Juniper, Alcatel and Huawei Education MS in cybersecurity & information Assur University of Central Missouri B. Tech in Mechanical engineering SRKR Engineering College - Bhimavaram, Andhra Pradesh Skills JAVA (2 years), LINUX (1 year), AUTHENTICATION (1 year), AWS (1 year), PYTHON (1 year) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Architecture expertise Cloud (AWS) services, Micro-services, Analytics and visualization.  Languages Python, Ruby, Java, Shell scripting, Troposphere.  CI, Test & Build Systems Maven, Jenkins, Bamboo  Automation Tools Chef, Ansible, Jenkins, Packer, Docker, Terraform, Packer, AWS CFTs.  Databases AWS RDS, Oracle, MySQL, DynamoDB, MongoDB  Logging & Monitoring Tools Splunk, ELK Stack, Cloud Health, Cloud Aware.  Operating Systems Red Hat Linux, Ubuntu, CentOS, Windows Server 2008/2012, Cisco IOS, Juniper OS.  Analytics Tools Hadoop, OOZIE, Hive, Tez, Presto, HUE, EMR.  Version Control Software's SVN, Git, Bitbucket.  Networking TCP/IP protocols, AWS Security groups, VPCs, VGWs, NAT, SOPHOS VPNs.  Testing tools JavaScript, Selenium Grid, JUnit, TestNG, Server Spec.  Authentication LDAP, SAML 2.0, Federated authentication  Agile PM tools Rally, Jira, Confluence, Hip chat, Slack, HP-ALM, MS Project