Sr. Salesforce Developer Sr. Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Salesforce Developer - Square, Inc San Francisco, CA • Over 8+ years of overall professional IT experience with 5+ years of experience in Salesforce.com and Force.com platform developer.  • Experience in Force.com Apex Classes, Apex triggers, Visual Force, Batch Apex, Integration, REST, SOAP based Web Services, Force.com API, SOQL and SOSL, Sales force AppExchange, JAVA and C#.  • Certified Force.com Developer (DEV 401).  • Experience in working with Debug Apex Scripts using Debug Logs and System Log Console to catch Exceptions and execute Governor Limits.  • Experience on working with Chatter objects.  • Integrated SFDC with Marketo Tool to make Marketing process easy to access Leads and opportunities.  • Experience in SFDC Integration using Web Service and Apex Programming, Sales force.  • Worked on various Salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Opportunities, Products, Cases, Leads, Campaigns, Forecasts, Reports and Dashboards.  • Pervasive experience in performing the administrative and development related tasks like creating Roles, Profiles, Visualforce pages, Validation Rules, Users, Custom Objects, Reports, Workflow Actions, Approval Process, Email Alerts, Entity Relationship Diagrams and Page Layouts.  • Strong Experience in creating, managing Applications, Custom Objects, Custom tabs, Fields, Relationships, Page Layouts, Record Types, Validation Rules, Email Templates, Report Types, Workflow Rules, and Approval Process.  • Strong knowledge about Sales cloud, Service cloud, Marketo configuration and customization and good understanding with Client/Server architecture, Object-Oriented design techniques and web application design.  • Extensive experience in lead, case management, web-to-lead, Web-to case, Email-to-case.  • Good understanding of Salesforce.com Governor Limits with an ability to optimize code to respect those limits.  • Good experience in working on Eclipse IDE with Force.com Plug-in for writing business logic in Apex programming language.  • Experience on VEEVA CRM implementations.  • Performed administration activities for SFDC/Veeva including System Configuration, Analytics Reporting, Data Migration, User Acceptance Testing, End User Training Development & Delivery and System Testing.  • Highly proficient with Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Service Max web service, Force.com, Community Portal, Chatter, Knowledge One and App-exchange on Sales force.  • Designed various web/landing pages to provide registration for various downloads and event attendance through Marketo.  • Proficient in Data Migration from Traditional Applications to SalesForce using Import Wizard and Data Loader Utility.  • Experience in working with Salesforce.com sandbox, Integration and production environments.  • Experienced in Creating Roles, Profiles, Email Services, Page Layouts, Workflow Alerts and Actions, and Approval Workflow.  • Excelled in working with various salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Opportunities, Products, Cases and Leads.  • Competent in SFDC Administrative tasks like creating Profiles, Roles, Users, Email Services, Approvals, Workflows, Dashboards, Tasks and Events.  • Experience in web technologies like HTML, XML, and JavaScript, ExtJS and also experienced on working with data structures to manage large amount of data efficiently.  • Proficiency in Object Oriented Languages like C++, Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets and other Java technologies.  • Strong Database (RDBMS) development experience in writing queries, functions, stored procedures, triggers, and views in Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL and MS Access.  • Excellent Client management skills, presentation skills, operational metrics, time management, analytical, great communication and interpersonal skills. Work Experience Sr. Salesforce Developer Square, Inc - San Francisco, CA June 2017 to Present Description: Square, Inc. is a financial service, merchant services aggregator, and mobile payment company based in San Francisco, California. Responsible for the day-to-day system administration including: user management, basic configuration, identifying and troubleshooting issues, and documentation. Collaborate closely with Sales, Marketing, Customer Support and Engineering teams to meet the needs and goals of the business. Worked on different apps likes Truly, Salesloft, Chilipiper, Jira and Rollup Helper.  Responsibilities:  • Working on a Large-scale & complex Salesforce development projects along with integrating date from other systems/Repositories.  • Salesforce Configurations across all the Standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, and Cases etc.  • Worked on configuring standard Salesforce Chatter and also customizing it by including custom logics on chatter objects using triggers and Classes and VF Pages.  • Designed, Implemented and deployed the Service Cloud with various custom built Page layouts, Custom tabs, Custom Apps to suit the needs of application and also created various Profiles to enable the Service Cloud.  • Provided daily user support in managing users, creating and maintaining custom objects and fields, handling bulk data migration, maintenance of page layouts, and installation and support of App Exchange applications like Exact Target and Marketo.  • Installed and applied App Exchange applications like Marketo to enhance business requirements.  • Designed and developed various Visualforce Pages, Apex Classes, Controller Classes, Extensions and Apex Triggers for functional needs in the various applications.  • Tested Users on Veeva Irep  • Created Various Validation Rules & Workflows specific to limited user groups by filtering out through their Profiles while working on Service Cloud.  • Created surveys for the Business users, added survey questions and publish the Survey to end users online and Veeva Irep.  • Designed very complex Visual force pages using JavaScript, CSS, HTML, JQuery and Controllers.  • Created various Record Types, Support Processes, Assignment Rules, Public Groups, Queues, Custom Settings, Sites, and Time-Based Workflows etc.  • Used complex SOQL Queries in the Codes and also in the tools like Data Loader to Extract, Insert or Update vast data (millions of records) from/into custom objects & Standard objects.  • Responsible for my Project deployments for all the releases and for Post deployment Testing.  • Developed Documentation of all the Projects those I worked on and maintained them in SharePoint.  • Responsible for guiding QA & UAT teams for testing the assigned Projects for all the releases both in Sandbox and Production Orgs.  Environment: Agile, Salesforce Unlimited Edition, Service Cloud, Sales Cloud, Apex, Veeva CRM, VisualForce (Pages, Component & Controllers), JQuery, JSON, XML, HTML, CSS, Workflow & Approvals, Marketo, Reports, Custom Objects, WSDL, Custom Tabs, Eclipse/Force.com IDE. Sr. Salesforce Developer Kroger - Cincinnati, OH August 2016 to May 2017 Description: Kroger needs a secured system for communicating with clients globally. And also it requires cost-effective solution. So customized the application to support various activities including acquiring leads, scheduling the appointments with clients, sales team and marketing team to enhance the business relations.  Responsibilities:  • Created both Managed and Unmanaged Packages with deprecated annotations to be available for partner Sales force users and other external users.  • Used Data Loader for insert, update, and bulk import or export of data from Salesforce.com Objects. Used it to read, extract, and load data from comma separated values (CSV) files.  • Implemented case management automation (on Case Object) to track and solve customer's issue and also Implemented Web-to-Case entry and manual case entry for entering customer's cases.  • Created Visual force pages that could be rendered as PDF's, build dashboard components and define email templates.  • Created and customized value propositions and a summary of the key items to in order to maximize deployment value using Marketo.  • Maintained an E-mail to Case system with auto-notifications sent to users when a case is created for their respective departments.  • Developed Apex Triggers to update fields and child objects.  • Developed Apex Classes & Triggers to implement the business logic as per the requirements.  • Implemented Wrapper classes for better visual force pages management and smooth functioning.  • Created Custom controllers implementing complex code for Sales Force, VF pages, also integrated force.com application on mobile platform like I-phone, Blackberry and Android.  • Handled SOAP/Restful Web services consumption for fetching content from the Internal Web server.  • Used SOQL & SOSL with in Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using Force.com Explorer.  • Migrated complex Excel validation rules in regular expression into Salesforce validation rules.  • Followed Agile methodology for the execution of day to day work related activities.  Environment: Force.com IDE, Apex Classes, Apex Triggers, VisualForce pages, Marketo, Validation Rules, Formula Fields, Data Loader, Reports and Dashboards, Workflow & Approvals, Web Services. Sales force Developer Copart - Dallas, TX September 2015 to July 2016 Description:  Copart is a provider of online vehicle auction and remarketing services. Copart provides vehicle sellers with a range of services to process and sell salvage and clean title vehicles over the internet using its patented virtual auction Technology. Copart implemented salesforce application for its sales and marketing team, Relationship Managers, Implementation Mangers and other teams to improve the sales process.  Responsibilities:  • Interacted with Business users for requirements gathering, analysis and development.  • Worked on various Salesforce.com Standard Objects including Accounts, Reports, Dashboards, and Events.  • Written Test Cases to check code coverage in Apex Classes and Apex triggers.  • Developed various Apex classes, Controller classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Developed various Custom Objects, Formula fields, Master-Detail, Lookup relationships, Tabs, validation rules.  • Created various Profiles, Roles, and Page Layouts and configured the Permissions based on the Organization hierarchy requirements.  • Designed and deployed Custom tabs, validation rules, Approval Processes and Auto-Response for automating business logic.  • Developed Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) for creating effects in Visual force pages.  • Implemented Pick lists, Dependent Pick lists, Master detail relationships, and formula fields to the custom objects.  • Created email templates and inbound emails using Visual Force for clients and customers.  • Enabled Chatter for the Organization and effectively communicate with the users in the Organization.  • Developed business documents for Salesforce.com Custom objects.  • Worked on different portals like Self Service Portal, Partner Portal and Customer Portal.  • Implemented Salesforce.com web services client using Sales force web services API, Java, XML and partner WSDL.  • Developed several Custom Reports & Dashboards to better assist managers and report folder to provide report accessibility to appropriate personnel.  • Involved in Agile methodology, Scrum that dramatically improved productivity and reduced errors.  Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Workflow & Approvals, Custom Objects, JavaScript, Dojo, JSP, Ajax ,Sandbox data loading, Eclipse IDE Plug-in. Sales force Developer Catamaran - Denver, CO January 2013 to July 2015 Description: Catamaran is redefining pharmacy benefit management (PBM) by providing a broad range of pharmacy spend management solutions and information technology capabilities by providing software applications, application service provider (ASP) processing services, and professional services. Involved in multiple projects that was based on creating an application by automating and processing the claims. Farmers Insurance was built to last, with a firm foundation of reliable businesses and a dedication to continual improvement. What began as simple car insurance companies for farmers have become a multi-line, multi-company insurer and financial services group with a solid reputation for doing the right thing for the right reason.  Responsibilities:  • Used SOQL & SOSL with in Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using Force.com Explorer.  • Created Custom controllers implementing complex code for Sales Force, VF pages, also integrated force.com application on mobile platform like I-phone, Blackberry and Android.  • Developed Visualforce Pages, with standard and custom controllers.  • Developed Apex Classes & Triggers to implement the business logic as per the requirements.  • Used Data Loader for insert, update, and bulk import or export of data from Salesforce.com Objects. Used it to read, extract, and load data from comma separated values (CSV) files.  • Created and customized value propositions and a summary of the key items to in order to maximize deployment value using Marketo.  • Migrated complex Excel validation rules in regular expression into Salesforce validation rules.  Environment: Force.com IDE, Apex Classes, Apex Triggers, VisualForce pages, Marketo, Validation Rules, Formula Fields, Data Loader, Reports and Dashboards, Workflow & Approvals, Web Services. Java Developer Teamware Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2012 to December 2012 Description:  Teamware Solutions is a business division of Quantum Leap Consulting Private Limited, offers cutting edge industry solutions for deriving business value for our clients' IT initiatives. Offering deep domain expertise in Banking, Financial Services and Insurance, Oil and Gas, Infrastructure, Manufacturing, Retail, Telecom and Healthcare industries, Teamware leads its service in offering skills augmentation and professional consulting services.  Responsibilities:  • Used Struts validation framework extensively. Developed JSP's using Struts tag libraries.  • Struts framework, which internally uses the J2EE design patterns, is used for Logging and tracing were used.  • Responsible for design and architecture of the project by using MVC framework.  • Used JSP for presentation layer and sessions as controller, entity beans as the model to represent the persistent data and interacted with Oracle database as per MVC Architecture.  • Design Implementation of GUI using HTML, JSP, AJAX and CSS.  • Designed and developed the JSP for the different modules.  • Developed EJB and Action Servlets for implementing controller and model layer.  • Developed the XML Schema for the data maintenance and structures.  • Used the XML Parsers like SAX parser to parse the data.  • Worked with various Style Sheets like Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) and XSL.  Environment: Java Server Pages (JSP), Struts 2.0, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS, Java 1.4, Struts 2.0, Hibernate 3.2/ 3.3, Web Services, EJB, Servlets, Oracle 10g, IBM Web Sphere 6.0, Eclipse 3.1, CVS, Win CVS, ANT Build Scripts. Java Developer Magna Infotech Pvt. Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2011 to June 2012 Description:  Magna Infotech has been a leading provider of technology staff augmentation & solutions in the Indian sub-continent. Magna provides customers with a comprehensive talent management solution specific to an industry, geography or business purpose.  Responsibilities:  • Worked with business and user groups to identify and implement functional enhancements and new requirements.  • Extensively used XSL as a XML parsing mechanism for showing Dynamic Web Pages in HTML format.  • Used Portal Enable, Portal Extend for personalization, content publishing, document management, productivity functions along with the scalable portal framework.  • Involved in the development of Standard XML reports using the Xalan parser and XSLT style sheets.  • Developed billing system pages using Struts Framework and written some of the custom tags.  • Used Spring IOC and MVC for enhanced modules.  • Implemented SOAP protocol to get the requests from the outside System.  • Used Rational Clear Case as a source control for code changes.  • Provided development support for System Testing, Product Testing, User Acceptance Testing, Data Conversion Testing, Load Testing, and Production.  • Involved in configuration and deployment of application on Web Logic server.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, Struts, Web services, XML, HTML, Java Script, SOAP, Log4J, Oracle, Linux. Education Bachelor of Technology in Electronics and Communications Engineering in Electronics and Communications Engineering Jadavpur University 2011 Skills C#, Html, Javascript, Xml, Ajax, Dhtml, Web services, Apex, Eclipse, Java, jquery, Change management, Force.com, Ms access, Ms sql server, Ms sql server 2005, Sql server, Sql server 2005, Mysql, Oracle Links http://Salesforce.com Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLSET:    Salesforce Technologies  SFDC Certified Force.com Developer, Salesforce CRM, Salesforce SFA, Apex Language, Apex Classes/Controllers, Apex Triggers, SOQL, SOSL, Visual Force Pages / Components, S Controls, Apex Web Services, AJAX, Workflow & Approvals, Dashboards, Analytic Snapshots, Case Management Automation, Custom Objects.    Salesforce Tools  Eclipse, Force.com Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Force.com Explorer, Veeva CRM, Apex Data Loader, Force.com, Workbench, Force.com Platform (Sandbox and Production), Marketo.    Other Programming Languages Java, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML, XML, DHTML, C, C#.  Databases MS SQL Server 2005/2008, PL/SQL, RDBMS, Oracle 8i/9i/10g, MS Access, and MySQL  Operating Systems Windows NT / XP Pro / Vista, Windows Server 2008, Linux.  Business Processes Incident Management, Change Management through BMC Remedy, HP Service center