Appian Developer Appian <span class="hl">Developer</span> Appian Developer - PWC Washington, DC • BPM Consultant with 8+ years of experience in IT Industry, with around 3 years of experience in Appian Developer and 4 years of experience in Java Developer, exclusively in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Maintenance and Support of BPM applications using Appian BPM technology.  • Worked with Business to understand their requirement and design and develop them into to Workflows / process flows and models.  • Proficient in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) achieving milestone using Agile (Scrum).  • Participated in designing security applications, created a process modular  • Involved in Process Modular design using Appian  • Integrating with other services, using Web services&HTTP method  • Expertise in SAIL Forms, SAIL Dashboards, SAIL Reports, Service and Entity Backed Records.  • Knowledge of Appian best practices and design principals.  • Implemented business rules by using Decision Rules, Declarative Rules.  • Experience in using Services and Connectors SOAP Services, Connect-SOAP, and JM Sand Connect-SQL to integrate with external systems.  • Proficient in using the Construction and debugging tools like Tracer, Rules Inspector, SMA and Clipboard.  • Experience in using System Management Application (SMA) for Administrative work.  • Expertise with Report definitions, List view reports and Summary view reports.  • Conducted Detailed Analysis to support designing and development of BPM applications.  • Provided Technical assistance for troubleshooting and resolution of workflow system problems  • Supported technical team members in testing changes for user interface and Application functionality  • Participated in development of analytical and computational methods for problem solutions  • Assisted in designing, developing and modifications to support efficiency. Worked on creating database Tables, Views, Procedures, Triggers, Functions and Sequences.  • Experienced in handling XSD validated xml document request and responses  • Excellent communication and presentation skills. Work Experience Appian Developer PWC - Washington, DC March 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Works with other business technology teams to understand requirements and patterns and ensure consistency in design across applications built on the Appian platform  • Hands on coding and development experience on Appian BPM platform.  • Define, design, and develop Appian / BPM shared components by doing a quick POC to prove the value add.  • Perform the detailed analysis of the business requirements provided, for Appian development  • Helps define and drive application standards and best practices across the Appian /BPM platform.  • Handled the Approval form workflow and notifications.  • Provided the Dashboards and to track the measure the impact of external innovation activities.  • Requested the form for dynamic content rules  • Design and Development of Appian applications  • Unit Testing of application components  • Help on-board new Appian applications in Appian platform  • Build and deploy of applications Help Review application design and code review  • Defect Fixing & issue resolution for the application developed.  • Created different areas to be displayed in the form, for each user group, depending upon the contract category in the Form.  • Involved in the different types of Reports, Rules and Interfaces.  • Involved in different type of validations in the Workflow Process  • Developed the SAIL form interfaces.  • Involved in adding the members in different type of User Groups.  • Created and modified CDT's. Involved in data migration from traditional apps to salesforce using data loader utility.  • I have handled the requests, collected the specific information by contract typed categories.  • Handled the Approval form workflow and notifications.    Environment: Appian V17.X, Microsoft Management studio, GIT, Version One Appian Developer IEM - Washington, DC February 2015 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  • Works with Product owner& team to understand requirements and ensure consistency in design across applications built on the Appian platform  • Developing MRT (Model Risk Tool) for Freddie Mac  • Design the UI effectively from the information in the user stories  • Design and develop complex process models  • Develop Query rules, Expression rules, and SAIL (Self-Assembling Interface Layer)  • Create Appian Records, Tempo Reports, and Portal Report  • Work on Document management and Data Management  • Deploy Application to different environments and help test the application  • Fixing & issue resolution for the application  • Create CDTs using XSDs and link them to Database  • Notifications are sent to different user groups  • Create tables and complex views in Microsoft Management studio.  • Good experience in version control SW like GIT,  • Handling Appian Packaging and deployment  • Take Part in all the Agile activities  • Take part inversion One for user stories ting visual workflows to automate field updates and new record creation  • Experience with Appian product administration activities and implementation of Appian SAIL components.  • Developed web components in SAIL and gained experience in working with plug-ins for digital signature that are embedded in PDF format    Environment: Appian V 16.1, Java 1.6, Struts 1.2, Jboss 5.1, Eclipse, Web Sphere, Oracle 10g, Windows Server 2003/2008. Java developer HSBC August 2013 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • This project is to provide Web Services to clients and vendors.  • Involved in design and development of a multi module java, Scala, Spring and Hibernate project in developing components, services, rules and workflows.  • Designed and developed application using Data Structures and algorithms.  • Used the Agile methodology iterative process for each of the module in the project.  • Developed application in Spring Boot Framework.  • Design of application components using java collections and providing concurrent database access using multithreading.  • Bean configuration has been performed using Spring context.  • Hibernate has been used as the ORM framework in the project using JPA for connecting to MYSQL.  • Developed advance stored procedure, functions and custom on MYSQL DB.  • Module management using Maven and POM configuration.  • Written Test Cases, Scripts for Testing.  • Used GitHub repository to submit code changes that are in turn reviewed by the dev leads before they are merged to the branch before production.  • Used Jira to capture and assign the issues and to follow-up on team activity.  • Used elastic search java API through maven dependency.  • Developing Web Services Using REST.  • Write unit tests after the development of a feature has been done to check for any build fails and reduce Bugs in new features or the existing features.  • Worked extensively with Data Structures and Collections framework.  • Added logging and debugging capabilities using Log4j and Junit.  • Involved in the design of test plans with QA to ensure functional, usability, and performance requirements    Environment: JAVA, Spring MVC Framework, Spring Web Framework, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Oracle, SQL Developer, Eclipse IDE Java Developer CRDB March 2011 to July 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirements gathering, analysis, and design and development of application based on J2EE using Spring 4.x and Hibernate 3.x.  • Followed AGILE (SCRUM) methodologies with sprint planning every two weeks and daily stand up meetings to monitor the status.  • Implemented the business layer using spring framework and achieved data persistence through Hibernate ORM framework.  • Used Hibernate annotation for Object Relational Mapping (ORM) with Oracle 12c database.  • Extensively wrote the PL/SQL and SQL programs and Designed and developed the views, materialized views, functions, procedures, packages, triggers and cursors.  • Re-factored an existing legacy application to be compatible with newer applications.  • Involved in creating Mongo DB, collections and documents and developed Mongoose Schema objects to perform CRUD operations.  • Responsible to manipulate HTML5, CSS3 in JQuery as well as making the pages dynamic using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Implemented views using Struts tags, JSTL2.0 and Expression Language used jQuery for client-side validations, and AJAX to create interactive front-end GUI.  • Created and configured EC2 instances on Amazon Web Services (AWS) for establishing clusters on cloud and also created S3 buckets for our application.  • Developed messaging module using Spring JMS and ActiveMQ to exchange the information in more reliable and asynchronous way in Enterprise Applications.  • Worked on Unix Shell scripting during deployment, error altering and automating project management task.  • Developed Web Services using REST interfaces using MuleSoft's Mule Enterprise Service Bus (ESB) platform to deliver fast, reliable and scalable integration API code.  • Developed REST architecture-based web services to facilitate communication between client and servers.  • Used JAX-RS annotations to specify the type of data producing or consuming, validate the user requests, map user requests and to pass input parameters.  • Core contributor to the development of a private PaaS offering that hosts Red Hat's next generation applications.  • Implemented external customer page using Spring MVC pattern and IOC.  • Used Oracle database for data persistence and written various Yaml files- Liquid base for triggering data into database.  • Responsible in developing Spring Boot Microservices from scratch.    Environment: Java 1.8, Eclipse IDE, Tomcat 8, JMS(Active MQ), HTML5, CSS3, Angular.JS, Spring MVC, Oracle 12c, PL/SQL, Java 1.8, Git, JIRA, Mockito , Linux, Agile, Hibernate, Bootstrap, Ajax, Rest API, Mule ESB, MongoDB, AWS,JSON/Yaml. Education Bachelor's Skills Database (5 years), J2ee (2 years), Java (5 years), Oracle (5 years), Sql (3 years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Technical Skills:    Operating System: UNIX, Windows - NT  BPM: Appian 16.x, 17.x  Programming Languages: C, C++, Java 1.4, 1.5, J2EE, JavaScript  Database: SQL Server 2008 Oracle 11g, Oracle 10g, 9i, 8i, MySQL, MS Access  Document Management: StarTeam, MS SharePoint  Development Methodologies: Waterfall, Agile