Fullstack Java Developer Fullstack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Fullstack Java Developer - Consumer Energy Jackson, MI, MI • 7+ Years of experience in design, development and implementation of software applications using Java, J2EE, technologies. Having good experience in the Information Technology Industry and also healthy participation in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including analysis, design, coding.  • Experience in Pair Programming, Test Driven Development, Waterfall model and agile methodologies like SCRUM.  • Expertise experience in estimations, analysis, design, development, testing, maintenance, performance tuning and deployment of internet, e-commerce and client-server applications using Java, Servlets, JSP, JavaBeans, JDBC, Spring, Hibernate, AJAX, JavaScript.  • Experience with different IDE's like Eclipse, NetBeans, Intellij.  • Good knowledge and experience in Core and J2EE design patterns like Singleton, Abstract Factory, Builder, MVC2, Business Delegate, DAO etc.  • Expertise in various open source frameworks like Angular JS, Node JS, Struts 2.0/1.2, Spring 2.5/3.0, Spring MVC, IoC, Web and ORM Technology like Hibernate 3.0, JPA, EJB3.0, IBatis, Mybatis, JQuery.  • Expertise in Distributed and Web environments, focused in JAVA Technologies - Java collections, Threads, J2SE, JDBC, Struts, Spring, Hibernate Framework.  • Expertise in Web-Development technologies like Servlets, JSP, JSTL, HTML5, JSON, JavaScript, CSS3, XML, XSL/XSLT, AJAX, JQuery.  • Good OOAD skills and data modeling using UML (Use-cases, Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams etc.) Used UML tools like STARUML.  • Extensive knowledge of XML-based standards and protocols (such as WSDL and SOAP), Service Oriented Architecture (SOA), development of XSD schemas and implementing both SOAP and REST web services.  • Experience in using DOM4J, JAXB, JAXP parsing and XML Bean to process, validate, parse and extract data from XML files.  • Experience in Continuous Integration tools such Jenkins and Bamboo.  • Good knowledge and experience with multiple Servers like IBM Web Sphere, IBM Web Sphere ESB (Enterprise Service Bus), Web Logic server, Apache Tomcat, JBoss.  • RDBMS experience includes Oracle, SQL Server; database programming and connectivity using JDBC, ODBC, SQL, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, triggers, Queries etc.  • Experience in open source continuous integration tools - Hudson, Ivy and Artifactory.  • Experienced in generating logging by Log4j to identify the errors in production test environment and experienced in Ant, Maven and Gradle tools.  • Strong experience in UNIX and Shell scripting.  • Worked with various Application servers like JBOSS7, Webshpere, and Glassfish 3 and Tomcat7 webserver.  • Experience in SVN and Perforce for version control and used maven for building  • Good experience in working with team members from vendors and internal departments to coordinate activities across multiple applications.  • Ability to manage multiple project tasks and deadlines along with troubleshooting skills to facilitate effective and efficient resolution of problems. Work Experience Fullstack Java Developer Consumer Energy - Jackson, MI April 2016 to Present Consumers Energy has provided customers with reliable, affordable power to fuel Michigan's amazing innovation, production and progress. We have a bold vision to continue to safely and affordably meet the future energy needs of Michigan customers while continuing to protect our environment and mail future of this project is Manage customer account anywhere, anytime view and pay bills, view 18 months of account history, go paperless with eBill and newsletter, view energy use graph and report power outages or meter reads.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the application using agile methodology and followed TDD, Scrum, pair programming.  • Wrote Technical design document with the class, sequence, activity diagrams in each use case.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using JQuery, JavaScript and AngularJS.  • Implemented J2EE design patterns such as Session Facade, Factory, DAO and DTO.  • Developed various reusable Helper and Utility classes that are used across all the modules of the application.  • Designed and developed Business components and Integrated with spring framework.  • Wrote data Components for Plan Setup, wrote and called Stored Procedures using Java, HQL, and Hibernate.  • Extensive experience in working IDE tools like Eclipse, Net Beans, RAD, WID (Web Sphere Integration Designer)  • Configured System.js to bundle Angular2 version app and created Call flow diagrams for IVR applications using VISIO  • Involved in configuring and integrating spring and Hibernate frameworks.  • Involved in design and implementation of MVC architecture in different modules.  • Responsible for writing utility classes, UI development using JSP, CSS3, HTML, JavaScript, Angular.  • Integrated business layer using Hibernate with Spring DAO.  • Used Angular JS Factories and Services to make Ajax calls or Restful Calls to get data in JSON Format.  • Used connection pooling for optimization using JDBC interface.  • Worked with Angular JS MVC framework including authoring complex directives, services, controllers and filters.  • Involved in designing and developing the JSON, XML Objects from Spring MVC rest full webservices.  • Played key role in the design and development of application using J2EE and Rest web service (Jersey frameworks) for Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) with JSON.  • Responsible for working on consuming and producing SOA/Web Services.  • Designed and Developed web services using JAX-WS, SOAP, JAXB, Apache CXF. Exposing and consuming the web services to the downstream applications using Apache CXF and Apache camel.  • Designed developed and maintained the data layer using Hibernate and performed configuration of Struts, Application Framework.  • Used WebSphere server for deploying the application.  • Involved in mapping of all configuration files according to the JSF Framework  • Extensively experienced in Middle Tier Development using Servlets, JSPs, and EJB (3.0)  • Developed Presentation Layer using HTML, CSS, and JSP and validated the data using AJAX and Ext JS and JavaScript.  • Migrated corporate Linux servers from physical servers to Amazon AWS virtual servers.  • Customized Angular JS filters in several locations to get the required output.  • Implemented Angular Controllers to maintain each view data.  • Utilized Angular.JS UI-bootstrap components like time picker, directives, model pop-ups, ng-grid, router, progress bar, ng-Idle, ng-Upload.  • Integrated the service call with UI using $http and $resources which are substitutes for AJAX in angular.  • Used Angular JS Directives like ng-app, ng-model, ng-init for initialization of Angular JS application data.  • Implemented Angular JS Service layer with utility functions to get data from back end using Rest based service calls and pass back to Angular Controllers.  • Designing user Interface using Angular UI components such as tabs, grids, dropdowns etc. and configured the routing service using Angular-JS router.  • Developed REST service documentation using Swagger UI and developed test cases sing JUnit and Mockito framework.  • Testing and production support of core java based multithreading ETL tool for distributed loading XML data into Oracle11g database using JPA/Hibernate.  • Performed the Backend Testing to ensure data consistency on front-end by writing and executing SQL statements on SQL Server Database Manually.  • Developed REST exception handling controller advices to respond to bad requests and server side exceptions.  • Build REST web service by building Node.js Server in the back-end to handle requests sent from the front end jQuery Ajax calls.  • Used JUnit framework for unit testing and subversion control for implementing the application.  • Developed SOAP web service  • Used MongoDB to import the data into and feed into web services and displayed it onto the browser.  • Involved in Design, Development and Support phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  • Worked on Agile, SCRUM development methodology and built the application with Test Driven Development (TDD)  Environment: Java 1.8, Java Script, Angular JS, Node.js, Ext JS, Spring Frame Work, Spring Batch, Hibernate, JDBC, JMS, Webservices, Apache Axis 2.0, MongoDB, Tomcat Web server, LDAP, WSDL, SOA, SOAP, XML, HTML, Log 4j, RAD 7, Oracle, SunOS (UNIX), Sub Version, Maven and Windows 7. Fullstack Java Developer Allied Insurance - Denver, CO April 2015 to March 2016 Web-based Java application which provides rates for the insurance policy premiums based on customer information    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering all required information and requirements for the project.  • Developed UI modules using JSP, JavaScript, CSS and Ajax.  • Developed the enterprise application by integrating JSF/Spring/Hibernate Frameworks.  • Used J2EE design patterns such as MVC, DAO and DI/IOC, Business Delegate, Singleton for the applications.  • Designed Database Schema and Writing SQL queries.  • Used spring framework to implement the MVC design pattern for implementing business logic of the application.  • Created REST and SOAP services to provide patients information.  • Primarily focused on the Spring components such as Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers, Modeland View Objects, View Resolver  • Complete business layer is set of WebServices includes both SOAP and Restful.  • Gathering requirements and understanding of business requirements and implement the process using Agile (Scrum) methodology.  • Designed and developed service layer using spring with Inversion Control.  • Developed configuration files, mapping files and Annotations to map the POJOs to DB tables managing associations and classes specific to the spring and Hibernate.  • Implemented data access using Hibernate (Object Relational Mapping Tool) persistence framework.  • Experience writing production-grade Node.js and Ext JS applications.  • Build servers using AWS which includes importing necessary volumes, launching the EC2 instance, creating security groups, auto-scaling, load balancers, Route 53 and SNS as per the architecture.  • Implementation of a responsive UI using Angular, HTML, JSON, CSS, Bootstrap etc.  • Created RESTful APIs in Express and returned logic through AngularJS data binding.  • Developed REST based Web Services to interact with backend/internal systems  • Designed and Implemented Web service using Apache AXIS and REST (also used Apache HTTP Client)  • Developed the client application using Struts framework  • Used Hibernate for persistence to Oracle Database  • Used Spring JDBC to access the data stored.  • Developed Session and Entity (CMP) beans (EJB) for crucial business logic.  • Developed Message Driven Beans to work with JMS Queues  • Worked on XML Parsing (DOM/SAX), XML Schemas/DTD and XMLBeans  • Performed Unit Testing using JUnit, and also developed build script using ANT  • Developed packages, functions, and Stored-Procedures  • Built web-based maintenance application to maintain complex specification documents. Used JQuery, Wicket, and iBatis against a MySQL database  • Oracle 11 g database have been used in the storage section. Having responsibilities to create lots of sql queries, stored procedures and triggers.  • Used ANT build tool to build and deploy the application.  • Developed Ant Scripts for the build process and deployed in IBM WebSphere.  • Performed Unit Testing Using JUnit.  • Worked with the Web services using CXF to check the credit history.  • Used GIT as a version controller.  • Implemented Log4J to trace logs and to track information.  • Used JSP for the front end, Lots of JSTL tags. HTML 5 tags and CSS3 JavaScript, JQuery functions have been used  • Used Clear Case for Source Control and Version Management.  • Executed Manual Testing on different modules of the application.  • Followed test driven design (TDD) technique and worked on Pair programming  Environment: Java 1.7, JDK 1.6, JSP, JSTL, JavaScript, C++, HTML5, CSS3, CSS, AJAX, Webservices, Spring 2.5, Hibernate 4.0, SQL Server 2008, ANT, Apache CXF 2.5.2, IBM WebSphere, Log 4j, JUnit, ClearCase, AngularJS, Ext JS, My Eclipse, Eclipse CA SCM, Eclipse GWT, Ext JS 4.0, CSS 3, Servlet 2.2, JSP 2.0, JDBC, Oracle 10g, CVS, ANT 1.5, TOAD, Log4j 1.2and Windows 7. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Jefferson Bank - San Antonio, TX January 2014 to March 2015 Jefferson Bank provides funds or loans to people with small business requirements. Applicants get their loans sanctioned based on their credit history. The applicant information is maintained in a database along with the details of the loan for repayment. This data is filtered into different categories based on parameters like type of account, loan amount, due date. The filtered data is used for statistics for generating reports.    Responsibilities  • Designed the Web application Using Spring MVC (Model View Controller) pattern to make it extensible and flexible.  • Analyzed, designed, implemented web based application using Java, JPA, JSP, spring, XML, and SQL.  • Used agile methodologies during the complete project life cycle.  • Helped in preparing the design documents like process flow, sequence, component diagram.  • Implemented DIM Web service using Spring Framework.  • Used agile methodology XP for development using User Stories.  • Used annotations in the complete project development, webservices, and MVC design.  • Used JMS for consuming pin verification, device connect disconnect messages.  • Used JPA as data persistence API for all the DAO, database operations.  • Generated Hibernate Objects, and used Hibernate ORM for SOTI Publisher application.  • Used Maven project management tool for build and deployment of the application.  • Used spring quartz timer to load the DIM data base with device battery information on regular intervals of time.  • Developed Spring REST Web services for opening, closing the locker door webservices operations.  • Developed the presentation and controller logic for the screens related to my user stories using JSPs, HTML, bean and form tag libraries.  • Collaborated with product management and engineering teams for development scalable integrations within API Platform applications.  • Developed code for user stories (based on user requirements) and successfully approved it from QA  • Used Spring Cache Abstraction and Ehcache to reduce the number expensive executions.  • Developed rule modules using Rule Engines, Drools.  • Used Subversion (SVN), ClearCase as source controls.  • ActiveMQ for app to app EDS communication.  • Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Established continuous integration (CI) practices and standards for PSCU with Jenkins.  • Spring XML configuration for Camel Integration to messaging XML documents.  • Front end development utilizing HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript leveraging the Bootstrap framework and a Java backend  • Utilized various JavaScript and JQuery libraries, AJAX for form validation and other interactive features.  • Parse XML documents like Device Connect, disconnect messages using JAXB.  • Used Microsoft Visio to design the work flows and sequence diagrams, class diagrams.  • Writing unit and integration tests with Mockito framework.  • Involved in deployment of the application at various environments (Development, Testing, Staging, and Production)  Environment: JDK 1.6, Eclipse 3.6, Agile, Spring FW 3.1.0, Cache Abstraction, REST Webservices, Tomcat 6, Oracle 11g, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Drools, JPA, Maven, JUnit, Log4j, HTML5, CSS3, Hadoop, JavaScript, ExtJs, JSON, JMS, DB Visualizer 7.1, Weblogic, UML, Mockito, JSP, XML, JAXB, Unix, Subversion (SVN), ClearCase, Jenkins. Java Developer Optima Health - Milwaukee, WI October 2011 to December 2013 Developed web application for brokers of small market health insurance for group or individual customers. Basic functionality was to get customer physical address, marital status, family health and their individual health information. After all the required information provided by customers application would figure out the best available health plan in small market and output to customers for their selection.  Responsibilities:  • Worked on complete life cycle, Design, development and testing using OOA and OOD.  • Used JSP, HTML, and CSS for content layout and presentation.  • Used JQUERY for UI and AJAX for reports display  • Created the web application using MVC pattern to manage runtime content, in the form of POIs.  • Used Webservices to extract patient related product data from machines and servers using WSDL, XML, and SOAP using Service Oriented Architecture.  • Worked on the design and development of application in Struts 2.0 framework  • Implemented the functionality of fetching of data from different sources and persisted the data through Hibernate, to separate DAO layer from Database layer.  • Worked on multithreading and thread pool design pattern.  • Worked on regenerated code, through Hibernate, and created services for existing modules and tested them through JUnit.  • Implemented business logic using Session Beans, Servlets and PL/SQL stored procedures  • Participate in technology/tools evaluation and software technical proof of concepts.  • Used JUnit for Unit testing the application.  • Performed production support of the application in production.  • Developed and maintained ANT Scripts.  • Managed daily production issues.  Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, MVC, Web Logic 8.1, Hibernate Spring 3.0, Web Services, MAVEN, SOAP, WSDL, JavaScript, PL/SQL, CVS, Oracle 10gi, JUnit, UNIX. Jr. Java Developer Macro Soft Inc January 2010 to September 2011 Macro soft has a powerful combination of business experience and technological expertise that provides clients best-in-class solutions in software development projects. Macrosoft delivers high-quality, cost-effective, full lifecycle solutions to complex software development projects. The company has over 20 years of successful engagements and over 300 professionals working for an exceptional client list.    Responsibilities:  • Study and analyze the business process flow and existing system.  • Identified the areas of improvement and the scope of the enhancements in the system.  • Upgraded this application from application wise storage to Lever-wise storage for better relation and feasibility with client.  • Developed various Servlets and Java Interfaces as part of the integration and process flow required for the system.  • Created a loosely couple component model to give the better flexibility to handle frequent business changes.  • Participated in design discussions and object model development workshop sessions for different lines of business.  • Involved in developing Use Case, Class, and Sequence & Components Diagrams as part of the documentation.  • Performed unit testing and comprehensive scenario testing of the modules I worked on.    Environment: Core Java 1.5, JSP, Servlets, EJB 2.0, WebSphere Application Server, Oracle 10g Database, Toad 9.7, SVN (Subversion Version Control System), My Eclipse IDE. Education Bachelor's Skills JAVA (8 years), JSP (8 years), ORACLE (8 years), HTML (6 years), J2EE (6 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages: Java/J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, Perl, UML, XML, XSL, XSLT, jQuery  J2EE Standards: JDBC, JNDI, Java Mail, JTA  Web Technologies: JSP, Servlet, JAX-WS, AXIS, REST (JAX-RS), SOA, SOAP, JMS, Bootstrap, EJB, Angular-JS, Angular 2, RMI, IBM MQ Series  Databases: Oracle, MySQL, Sybase, SQL-Server 2008, Mongo-DB  IDE's: Eclipse, Netbeans, Intellij, Sublime, RAD, WSAD  Web/App Servers: WebSphere Application Server, WebLogic, JBoss, Apache Tomcat  Frameworks: Struts, Node-JS, spring, JSF, Hibernate, Apache Camel    Operating Systems: Windows, UNIX, Solaris, Red Hat, AIX  Version Control Tools: CVS, SVN, Git, ClearCase  Tools/Utilities: Log4j, Ant, JUnit, Caliber, Maven, Gradle 2.1, Jenkins, SOAPUi    Methodologies: Agile (Scrum, TDD), Waterfall