Java Developer/Senior Software Engineer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Senior Software Engineer Java Developer/Senior Software Engineer - Cummins Chicago, IL Over 7 years of extensive Experience in designing User Interface (UI) applications and professional web applications with emphasis on Java/J2EE Technology, AWS,Spring boot, Angular2, Microservices, HTML 4.0/5, CSS2/CSS3, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, AJAX, JSON, SOAP, REST APIs  • 7 years of experience in designing, developing and deploying n-tier web applications and client/server applications using JAVA, J2EE technologies and Web Technologies for enterprise applications.  • Experience working in Agile by following agile standards like TDD and BDD.  • Good Experience in Core Java concepts like JavaBeans, Collections Frameworks, Multi-threading, Exception Handling etc.  • Experience in designing both Front end & Backend applications using Java, J2EE Web frameworks, Java Servlets, JSP, JSTL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS.  • Experience applying the latest development approaches including MVC, event-driven applications using AJAX, Object Oriented (OO) Java Script, JSON, and XML  • Extensive experience in Creating & Consuming Web Services in Maven Project /Dynamic Web Project/ EAR Project with SOAP and Restful  • Expert in writing SQL queries and using Hibernate framework with Spring ORM in interaction with the RDBMS  • Extensive experience in using, WSDL, XML, SOAP, HTML5 and DHTML.  • Proficient with development and optimization of SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, Views and Triggers using TOAD with PL/SQL.  • Excellent knowledge of design patterns (Model View Controller, Singleton, Factory pattern, DAO, Session Facade)  • Solid working experience in various IDE's: Notepad++, Sublime Text, Komodo IDE, Eclipse, Visual Studio for developing User Interfaces.  • Experienced in developing and deploying applications on IBM WebSphere, JBOSS and Apache Tomcat servers.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like Safari, Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox and Google chrome.  • Experienced in database systems like Cassandra, Oracle, MySQL, IBM DB2, SAP Hana and MS SQL Server 2005/2008 server to manage tables and created views, indexes, sequences, stored procedures, functions, and triggers for the fast retrieval and manipulation of data.  • Strong experience in built Maven Based Projects and use POM file for create complete clean Project Documentation with POM file in Maven.  • Experience in client management, business requirement specification, writing technical documents and architecting solution.  • Good working knowledge of Extreme Programming using Agile methodology with iterative and incremental software development  • Hands on experience in using the build and integration tools like Jenkins.  • Hands on experience in version control using SVN/Subversion, CVS, GIT and VSS.  • Well versed with complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) process eliciting, analysing, specifying, validating, managing the requirements, preparing software requirements specification documents, designing, developing, testing, providing production support, collaborate with co- developers in delivering the required work under the agreed timeframes adhering to the Agile environment best practices. Work Experience Java Developer/Senior Software Engineer Cummins - Indianapolis, IN April 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, SRS design, Design, Customization Development, Data Migration, UAT support and post go-live support.  • Finacle CRM and Integrator Customization requirements have been developed using JAVA/J2EE, Web Services, JDBC, Spring, Hibernate, Servlets, SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle 11g, XML, HTML, JavaScript etc.  • Implemented some of the new features of Java8.  • Designed and developed a RESTful web service with JAX-RS API's using Jersey framework and deployed on Apache Tomcat server.  • Implemented dependency injection using spring framework 3.0.5 version.  • Involved in Recon activity to maintain version concurrency.  • Performed code reviews and provided guidelines for best practices of software management, Coding Standards and Code Commenting for better understand-ability.  • Improved the maintainability of the project by implementing and improving Exception Handling and Collection APIs  • Design and develop the processes using multithreading to make it asynchronous.  • Developed multiple formatting, validation utilities in Java, JavaScript functions and CSS.  • Used RESTful web services for transferring data between applications.  • Experience in to prepare Test Cases and JUnit Testing  • Knowledge of Test-Driven Development (TDD) and Behaviour Driven Development (BDD)  • Designed and developed various Oracle database Simple and Complex Queries, PL/SQL procedures, Stored Procedures, Trigger and Functions.  • Worked as a Part of Support Team Understanding the requirements (both functional and non-functional) by going through the specifications.  • Developed the application using Eclipse IDE.  • Integrated different software modules using Jenkins 2.32.  • Designed Unix/Linux Shell scripting.  • Involved in creating a web interface using JSPs and HTML.  • Coding on java classes to generate log files.  • Establishing to connections through JDBC to MySQL.    Environment: JAVA, J2EE, JSP, JDBC, Servlets, Hibernate, REST Web services,Spring boot,Microservices, Oracle 11g, Eclipse, Apache Tomcat, Jenkins, HTML, XML, Java Scripting, JQuery, AngularJS Angular 2. Senior Java/ UI Developer Medpro - Remote Location May 2016 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases of Software Development Lifecycle including Requirements gathering, Design and Analysis of the Customer Specifications.  • Used Angular JS, HTML5, JSP, JavaScript, jQuery, JSTL, Custom Tag for designing the user interface.  • Used interactive data binding, filters and animation events using AngularJS.  • Built CSS and JavaScript system for controlling text display issues cross-platform and cross browser.  • Used jQuery to make the HTML, CSS interact with JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web page.  • Implemented few modules using frameworks like Backbone JS and Node JS.  • ExtJS is used to design executive dashboard, feed viewer, portal, ticket application, responsive design.  • Developed the pages that are complaint to W3C and ADA standards.  • Used Dependency Injection feature of Spring 3.0 MVC framework and O/R mapping tool Hibernate 4.0 for rapid development and ease of maintenance.  • Implemented Ant and Maven build tools to build jar and war files and deployed war files to target servers.  • Implemented cross cutting concerns like business transactions, security, logging and monitoring mechanism using Spring AOP.  • Maintained relationship between objects using SpringIOC.  • Extremely used plain JavaScript and JQuery, JavaScript Library to do the client-side validations.  • Developed Web Services using REST, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, CXF and XML using JERSEY.  • Produced RESTful web services in Jersey Framework.  • Used AJAX to get the data from the server asynchronously by using JSON object.  • Involved in code review and deployment of the application on development, testing of production servers.  • Performed unit testing using JUNIT framework and tested DAO's and Business Services.  • Used CVS as a version control system, an important component of Source Configuration Management.  • Analyzing the client requirements and production issues.  • Design and Development for enhancements & change requests.    Environment: Java1.6, Eclipse, Maven, SOAP, restful, AJAX, XML, JSON, JQuery, Spring boot,Microservices, Angular JS, Backbone JS, Node JS, Spring (), Hibernate, JMS, Oracle 11g, Clear case, WebLogic Application Server. Sr. Java Developer ConsolidatedRail Corporation - Philadelphia, PA July 2015 to April 2016 Responsibilities:  • Requirements gathering and analysis with the customer based on component specifications.  • Followed Waterfall industry-based standards.  • Prepared Functional and Technical Design document product following UML design procedures/standards.  • Organized Technical and Functional Design meetings within the team and across teams of different modules.  • Responsible for assigning work to the team and getting the deliverables within time.  • Documented and managed deployment process.  • Install, configure, support, and administer 3rd party software (e.g. Jenkins, Sonar and Splunk)  • Designed and developed various components which included working technologies like Java, JSP, Servlets, Spring, JDBC and XML processing, Maven, Soap Web Services.  • Responsible for writing and reviewing the Junit test cases.  • Responsible for mentoring the team.  • Responsible for configuring and creating the database for the application server using SAP Hana  • Worked with revision control tool SVN.  • Lead a team of 6.    Environment: JDK1.6, Java, J2EE, JSP, JavaScript, HTML,Spring boot,Microservices,Servlets, Spring, UML, RAD, Web Sphere App Server 6.x/7.x, Windows 2000/XP, DB2, SVN repository. Junior JavaDeveloper Bank of America - Fort Wayne, IN August 2013 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed the application using Java/J2EE, with the help of JSPs, Servlets.  • Developed the application using Eclipse IDE.  • Requirements gathering through Email or through setting up a meeting with onshore person.  • Coding on java classes, JSP's and java scripts.  • Developed back-end logic for business applications, e.g. views, procedures/functions, triggers  • Worked on XML parser (SAX/DOM).  • Involved in writing JSP using Bean, Logic, HTML, and Iterate Tags.  • Developed session Beans using EJB  • Application enhancement belongs to two categories: server-side coding (business logic), UI development and another is the report generation system.  • Application development includes developing web pages using the Hibernate framework and java scripting along with Java Programming.  • Writing stored procedures to process the data and store it in an organized manner.  • Carrying out the release of the application to the pre-production environment by preparing the war and deploying it.    Environment: Java Programming, Java Beans, Spring boot,Microservices ,Struts, JSP, Life Ray Framework, XML, Java Scripting, AJAX, JQuery, Oracle programming. JAVA/UI Developer Goodricke Group Ltd June 2012 to June 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis, development, testing, integration and deployment of the web services.  • Involved in Agile methodology to get updated with team  • Involved in development of User Interface using HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery and JSON.  • Used spring framework to implement the MVC design pattern.  • Used hibernate to map the domain elements and Criteria API, named query for querying.  • Hibernate has been used as the ORM framework to persist the data and Hibernate xml mapping has been used to map the java objects to Database tables.  • Developed ORM persistence layer using JPA, Hibernate framework.  • Worked on advanced Hibernate associations with multiple levels of Caching, lazy loading.  • Implemented business logic in Middle Tier using pluggable components, which were specified in the customized xml documents using Spring framework.  • Developed the REST web service using Spring IOC to provide user a way to run the job and generate daily status report on loans  • Extensively involved in developing and consuming Restful Web Services using JAX-RS.  • Wrote complex SQL query to pull data from different tables to build the report.  • Used Log4jerror handling, to monitor the status of the service and to filter bad loans  • Used IBM cruise control to build the WAR file  • Used WebLogic to deploy the changes and to test on local machine  • Committed the code changes to SVN using Tortoise SVN  • Developed Junit test cases, to test each class as part of unit testing    Environment: Java, Struts, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Oracle,Spring boot, Microservices, Hibernate, JavaScript, jQuery, WebLogic, SQL, HTML, CSS, XML, Agile, Restful Web Services, ANT, Junit, SQL Developer, JMS, Eclipse, Log4. Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jboss, jquery, Jsf, Jsp, Rmi, Servlets, Struts, Application server, C++, Dtd, Html, Javascript, Node.js, Json Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS: Programming Languages Java, JavaScript, J2EE, C, C++, SQL.  Operating Systems Win XP/Vista/7/8, Linux.  Client-Side Programming  HTML/HTML5, CSS2/CSS3, DHTML, XML, XHTML, XSLT, ASP.NET, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, JSON, AngularJS, Spring boot, Angular2 Ember.js, ECMAScript.    Server-Side Programming    JavaScript Libraries    J2EE, Java EE 5, Servlets 2.1/2.2, JSP 2.0, JSTL1.1,EJB 1.1/2.0/3.0, JDBC 2.0/3.0, RMI, XML,XSL,XSLT,XSD,DTD,XQuery,UML,MVC,PHP,JSF, STRUTS, Spring MVC, Spring AOP,SpringIOC, Java Threads, Swings.  Ext JS 2.0/1.0, Backbone.JS 0.9.2, Require.js, Node.js, Angular.js1.4/2.0, React.js, ES6.    RDBMS Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server, DB2.  Application Server WebLogic, Tomcat, WebSphere, JBOSS, AWSs.  Tools Ant, VNC, Toad, SQL Developer.  Framework Struts, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, JSF, UML, and Workflow.  Design Tools Rational Rose, MS Visio.  Version Control ClearCase, CVS, SVN, GitHub.  IDE and Tools  NetBeans, Eclipse, RAD, Eclipse IDE, Firebug, Developer Tools, EditPlus, JSFiddle, Sublime text, BugZilla, Ant, Maven, Log4j, JProbe.