Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Ericsson Plano, TX • Over 8+ years of experience in Analysis, design and development of applications using Java/J2EE in Telecom and Health Industries.  • Worked extensively in Java 8, J2EE, SpringBoot, REST, Angular JS, Maven, Spring (Core, RESTful)  Struts, Hibernate, JSON, XML, HTML 5.0, GitHub, SVN and well versed with RDBMS like Oracle 11g, MySQL. Also, worked on NoSQL databases like MongoDB.  • Strong Experience in Swing and core java development. Sound skill in Swing MVC architecture design patterns and multi-threading.  • Hands on experience in web development with a strong background working on open source technologies including HTML/HTML 5, XML, CSS/CSS3, Javascript, Jquery, Flash and AngularJS.  • Experience in working with Data structure and algorithms in Java.  • Good knowledge in querying data from Cassandra for searching grouping and sorting.  • Super proficiency in AWT JBoss Hibernate SWT and Java swing.  • Developed the GUI using Struts Framework, JSP Servlets, HTML and Javascript.  • Experienced in designing and developing enterprise and web applications using Java and J2EE technologies like Java, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JNDI, JPA, EJB, JMS, XML, JIRA.  • Experience in using ORM frameworks like Hibernate, JPA and integrating with SpringORM  • Developed SOAP and Restful Web services using Apache CXF, JAX-WS RI, JAXB and JAX-RS  • Developed applications based on Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture using Struts and Spring  • Worked with RDBMS Databases like My SQL, Oracle 10g/ 11g, and DB2  • Knowledge about integration platforms like Apache CXF and messaging platforms like ActiveMQ (AMQ)  • Used GIT repository for software configuration management and version control.  • Experience in JDBC Programming and also with writing DDL and DML SQL Queries, PL/SQL stored procedures, Triggers, Functions, and packages  • Experienced in developing applications using different J2EE Design Patterns such as DAO, Singleton, Session Facade, and Factory  • Experience in working with the presentation layer using HTML, CSS, Python, JSP, JSTL, Custom tag libraries, JavaScript, JQuery, and AJAX  • Good experience in J2EE Testing in developing test cases with Junit for Unit testing, and logging using Log4J. Followed Waterfall and Agile/SCRUM methodology of software development which satisfies the customer through early and continuous delivery of valuable software.  • Designed User Interfaces (UI) using JSP and HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, CSS, JQuery and Node.JS for providing the user interface and communication between the client and server.  • Experience in designing and developing applications with an eye towards simplicity, reliability, manageability, scalability, extensibility, performance and re-use.  • Experience in working with Web Servers like Apache Tomcat and Application Servers like IBM Web Sphere and JBOSS.  • Extensive hands-on experience in object-oriented analysis, design, modeling and programming tools in conjunction with Unified modeling language (UML) using IBM Rational Rose.  • Proficient in persistence framework like Hibernate, ORM, JPA.  • Experience in strong loop framework which is built upon node.js  • Performed unit testing using Junit integration and deployment of applications done using tools ANT, Maven and debugging through log4j.  • Participated in API design for several products.  • Experience in using AWS to configure servers. Proficient in Cloud computing infrastructure such as AWS EC2  • Experience in SQL, PL/SQL programming, stored procedures, triggers with Oracle, MySQL, MONGO DB/NoSQL and DB2 databases.  • Highly result oriented and pro-active, proven abilities to learn new technologies quickly and implementing them successfully in production.  • Building and Deployment of EAR, WAR, JAR files on test, stage and production servers.  • Exceptional ability to learn and master new technologies and also to deliver outputs in short deadlines. Work Experience Java Developer Ericsson - Plano, TX July 2018 to Present DESCRIPTION: Sales Application Processing System is a Future Mode of Operations application in the Sales Automation. Sales Application Processing System guides client's Account Executives to complete the design/price/propose for their sales process. This allows the Account Executives to initiate the Service Order. It helps in automating the complete sales flow. Sales Application Processing System is a web-based user interface, which interacts with around 8 other systems / applications using web services.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the analysis, high level design and detailed design of the web and enterprise applications.  • Worked on the development of the presentation tier using Servlets, JSP, Java Script, AJAX and JQuery.  • Integrated JSF with Spring framework to leverage dependency injection and also to develop Web Services.  • Hibernate framework is used as persistence layer for mapping an object-oriented domain model to a backend relational database (Oracle)  • Worked on the development of the service layer using Stateless Session Beans using EJB 3.0  • Integrated applications using JMS point-point and publish/subscribe.  • Developed and Published REST based JAXWS web services, and developed clients for consuming other web services.  • R2  • Involved in writing the complex SQL queries, Triggers, and Stored Procedures.  • Implemented design patterns such as MVC, Singleton, Session Façade, Business Delegate, Service Locator etc.  • Used Clear Quest for defect tracking.  • Involved in build, staging and deployment of J2EE applications on vast number of servers for production with use of WLST and shell scripts.  • Involved in production support of J2EE applications.  • Extensively worked on writing JUnit test cases for testing the business components developed in Spring and Java.  • Used Agile-methodology in Development.  • Coding followed Test-driven development.  • Used SOAP UI to test the webservices and mock response for unit testing webservices.  Environment: Java 1.5, Spring 2.5, Hibernate 3.1, JSP, JSF, Servlet, Oracle 9i, Java Script, RESTful, PL/SQL, Tomcat 7, SVN, Spring Tool Suite, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Log4J Java Developer Medtronic - North Haven, CT August 2017 to June 2018 DESCRIPTION: It is a Clinical System (E-Commerce) which supports physicians and users in Intermountain  Healthcare Facilities. It gives various details of activities done on the selected patient like Lab, Radiology, Insurance, Inpatient reports, and Demographics. Physicians and Nurses use this system to get information about Clinical Schedule, Message Log, and Discharge etc.  RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Worked in all phases of the Software development life cycle (SDLC) starting from requirement gathering, designing functional document to implementation, delivery, test planning, execution and production support.  • Closely worked with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules been built.  • Experience in working with TFS.  • Used AngularJS controllers (Javascript object) to control page data and Models to bind data in user interface with controller.  • Wrote application level code to perform client side validation using JQUERY, JavaScript.  • Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, CSS, Bootstrap and other frameworks.  • Using advanced level of JQUERY, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS and pure CSS layouts.  • Used JQuery plugins for dra-drop widgets, menus, user interface and forms.  • Using AngularJS, created custom components and directives and validations which can be re-used in existing and in future applications.  • Used Custom AngularJS Filters to provide better search experience.  • Implemented AngularJS Factories and Controllers to manipulate and view employee task data.  • Used AngularJS HTTP methods and calls to retrieve the required data from the Services.  • Implemented Database-First Entity Framework to retrieve and store employee task data in entity models.  • Worked with Angular 1.4 version.  • Started using Angular2 version recently, have knowledge in Angular 2 to build interactive web applications.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Designed and developed intranet web applications using JavaScript and CSS.  • Interacted with java controllers (JQUERY, Ajax, and JSON to write/read data from back end systems)  • Responsible for setting up AngularJS framework for UI development. Developed html views with HTML5, CSS3, JSON and AngularJS.  • Have experience writing scripts using Javascript and Typescript to implement the functionalities of required fields.  • Used popular Node.js frameworks like Express and Restify to mock a Restful API.  • Used Github, TFS for version control and QC for defect tracking.  • Maintain, enhance, and recommend solutions that best suit business and technology needs from UI standpoint.  • Development and deployment using Asp.net, vb.net, HTML, CSS and JavaScript/ JQuery.  • Applied data visualization by dynamic graphs & charts with data fetched form Restful web services  • Used Restful web service AJAX calls to implement robust & efficient client facing application.  • Applied J-Query scripts for basic animation and end user screen customization purposes.  • Defined and developed the presentation layer of the application using HTML 5, CSS3 and Ajax.  • Produced content pages with CSS3 layout and style markup presentations and used JavaScript methods and properties.  • Define technical requirements based upon business requirements.  • Involved in working with TDD tasks.  • Creating cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  • Strong communication, analytical and interpersonal skills working within cross-functional teams.  • Worked on cross browser compatibility issues and fix the bugs pertaining to various browsers.  • Excellent analytical and logical programming skills with a good understanding at the conceptual level and possess excellent presentation, interpersonal skills with a strong desire to achieve specified goals.  Environment: HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Typescript, AJAX, JSON, NodeJS, XML, Bootstrap, ReactJS, AngularJS, Java, Microsoft visual studio. Full Stack Java Developer Verizon - Irving, TX October 2016 to July 2017 DESCRIPTION: Verizon is one of the leading and fast growing companies in the Telecommunication sector. We have been working in the Telephone Billing Module to resolving the billing conflicts in OMX-IM Project. Worked in HALO project for Verizon to develop workflows.  RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Involved in design, development, testing, and production deployment phases of the project using Agile methodology.  • Extensively involved in the development of the agent module, which involved multi-threading and GUI for this product, which was developed in Swing.  • Developed front-end web page by using HTML5, CSS3 and Javascript taking advantage of the frameworks Angular JS.  • Involved in Analysis and design of the project which is based on OOAD and Design patterns.  • Developed the MVC architecture using Struts Framework.  • Use bootstrap, React JS and Node JS in the effective web design.  • Designed different modules using Java7 and implemented the application.  • Developed a proof of concept for using HBase and Cassandra to store and process borrower history.  • Extensively worked on the Spring JDBC and Implemented a Module called Quote Service.  • Implemented the Business Logic in the Quote Module to insert the Data in the Tables.  • Used Spring JDBC to implement SQL Queries to insert, modify or delete the records in the database.  • Responsible for pagination for the application by integrating Spring framework with Node.JS.  • Involved in the application development using Spring MVC module and responsible for developing DAO layer.  • Written SQL queries, stored procedures modifications, Local Data Base Changes and Used Toad for testing Environment for existing database structure as required per addition of new features.  • Used EJB 3.0 Stateless beans to generate pick lists and to run Asynchronous Batch Jobs.  • Participated in Architect and design of the components using a distributed architecture on AWS cloud platform.  • Has done highly optimum development in terms of coding, data structure, and components that can serve 12k concurrent users at a time.  • Designed data structure of the Ebill application.  • Implemented Log4j and logger for Debugging.  • Apache CXF is used along with Maven to generate WSDL and JAXB Objects.  • Used Hibernate to develop an application to manage reference data to store/retrieve data out of the database.  • Used IBM Rational Developer to develop the code.  • Used IBM WebSphere as the Application server to load the application.  • Worked with SOA to integrate the Backend with the application.  • Used Soap UI for testing Web Service.  • Developed the necessary Struts Action and Action Forms for the applications.  • Designed and developed reusable web interface components using Struts and JSP Tag Libraries.  • Implemented Client-side Validation using JavaScript, JQuery.  • Implemented the view layer using JSP and JavaScript, HTML, CSS.  • Used Struts Validator Framework to do server-side validations.  • Worked with Design Patterns like Session Façade, Front Controller, and DTO and DAO pattern.  • Designed and developed Servlets, JSP's to implement business logic and deployed them on the Web Logic Server.  • Developed Restful web services that managed the multiple parallel client access scenarios.  • Involved in the unit testing using JUnit test cases.  • Responsible for Code reviews and provided technical guidance to team members.  ENVIRONMENT: Java 7, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, node.JS, Spring MVC, Spring JDBC, AOP, Hibernate 3.0, SOA (SOAP, WSDL, REST, Web Services), Node.JS, EJB 3.1, JMS 1.1, OOO Design Patterns, Agile Methodology, TDD, BDD, web sphere 7.5/8.x, JUnit, Soap UI, Maven, Jenkins, Jira. Java/J2EE Developer HSBC - Valley View, OH November 2015 to September 2016 DESCRIPTION: This is an application developed for retail customers of the bank. Customers can go online and view their account balances, statements, manage their contact info, do bill payment and communicate securely with the bank customer service. We build the entire application from back up.  RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Developed application using Spring MVC, JSP, JSTL, JavaScript and AJAX on the presentation layer, the business layer is built using spring and the persistent layer uses Hibernate.  • Developed views and controllers for client and manager modules using Spring MVC and Spring Core. Specified SOA architecture using JSF. Developed JSF Components to support entry of integers and date values with internationalization.  • Used Spring Security for securing the web tier Access. Used jQuery for dynamic & interactive UX.  • Data Operations are performed using Spring ORM wiring with Hibernate and Implemented Hibernate Template and criteria API for Querying database.  • Efficiently used Spring AOP for transaction management.  • Developed Web Services using XML messages that use SOAP, JAX-RPC and JAXB. Created WSDL and the SOAP envelope.  • Developed various custom tags using JSP tag libraries.  • Implemented asynchronous messaging between components using JMS.  • Used multi-threading in programming to improve overall performance.  • Developed Exception handling framework and used log4J for logging.  • Developed and modified database objects as per the requirements.  • Creating Maven build file for compiling and building the project, & converting the source into war file.  • Involved in Unit integration, bug fixing, acceptance testing with test cases, Code reviews.  • Used SVN for version control.  ENVIRONMENT: JAVA, IBM Rational Rose, UML, JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, Web services, SOA, spring,  Hibernate, EJB 3.1, XML, XSLT, JMS, PL/SQL, Oracle, JUnit, Maven, Log4j, JBoss, Subversion (SVN), Eclipse Java Developer Sun Guard - Birmingham, AL April 2014 to September 2015 DESCRIPTION: Educational Loan Financial Management System is a web based comprehensive software package supporting Student Financial Aid Administration, Fixed Income, Loans and Reports. The system is modular and organized to support all of the functions of the Financial Aid Office like need analysis, evaluation, packaging, notification, disbursement, funds management, tracking, verification and reporting. This application completely web enabled the process of loan applying to loan repayment of a customer.  RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Worked on analysis, design, development, deployment and testing of the application  • Involved in designing Application based on MVC architecture  • Created service layer using SOAP web services and JAXB  • Designed and developed for the Presentation layer using MVC Struts Frame work  • Created the JSPs, Action classes and Action forms for the Presentation layer  • Used Java/J2EE Design patterns such as MVC, Singleton, Service Locator, DAO  • Implemented server side validation using Struts Validation Framework.  • Extensively used AWS to integration with Enterprise and web applications. Persistence layer implemented using Hibernate framework  • Developed Persistence classes and hibernate, cfg, xml and other configuration files for Hibernate mapping to Oracle database  • Used different Hibernate APIS like Configuration, Session Factory, Session and Hibernate Transaction Manager for writing the persistence logic  • Unit tested with JUnit and involved in System testing, Load testing and User Acceptance testing and fixed the bugs  • Developed build scripts using ANT tool for compilation and deployment purpose  • Implemented logging using log4j and apache commons-logging framework  ENVIRONMENT: Java, Hibernate, Struts, Web sphere, SOAP, Oracle, CVS, ANT, JSP, Servlets, JUnit, ANT, log4j,  HTML, JavaScript Java/J2EE Developer CSS Health Technology - Mobile, AL January 2012 to March 2014 DESCRIPTION: This is a fully integrated Inpatient EMR system that includes all the tools to achieve meaningful Use and maintain compliance. It provides clinician job satisfaction through reduction in paperwork, ease of use, flexibility on where, when and how data may be used and provides built in tools for clinical decision support to strengthen care and prevent errors.  RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modeling, analysis, design and development.  • Designed and analyzed UI screens using JSP, Struts tags and HTML and used JavaScript for client side validation.  • Used Struts Framework in the application which is based on MVC design pattern and integration with ORM framework (Hibernate)  • Configured Hibernate Objects as Spring Beans in spring configuration file.  • Used Hibernate Persistence Strategy to interact with database.  • Used Struts Validation and Tiles framework in the presentation layer.  • Used Java Message Service (JMS API) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information.  • Extensively used Spring IOC, AOP, configured Application Context files and performed database object mapping using hibernate annotations.  • Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection and integrated with the Struts Framework and Hibernate.  • Used DAO design pattern to retrieve the data from database.  • Used SAX and DOM XML parsers in the application.  • Used UNIX commands and Shell scripting.  • Used Web services for sending and getting data from different applications using SOAP messages.  • Used CVS for version control.  • Used Hibernate to access Oracle 9i database for accessing customer information.  • Used JUnit framework for Unit testing of application.  • Deployed the application on IBM Web Sphere 7.0.  ENVIRONMENT: Java, J2EE, EJB 2.0, Struts2, Hibernate 2.0, spring 2.5, JSP, Servlets, JMS API, XML, SOAP,  JDBC, JavaScript, UML, HTML, JNDI, CVS, Log4J, JUnit, IBM WebSphere 7.0, Tomcat, Eclipse 3.0, MySQL, UNIX Junior Java Developer Robert Bosch - Bengaluru, Karnataka August 2010 to December 2011 DESCRIPTION: Participating on development as well as integration of and enhancements to existing products. Building a revenue-generating java -based web application using JAVA/J2EE technologies.  RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Developed Java classes for various modules.  • JSP and Servlets components.  • Developed client side code using HTML and Java Scripts.  • Developed front-end pages using JSP.  • Implemented the database connectivity using JDBC with Oracle 10g.  • Involved in the development of model, library, Struts and form classes (MVC)  • Involved in the development of JSPs and Servlets for different User Interfaces.  • Involved in the kickoff meetings to discuss the collected business requirements.  • Used Java Messaging Service (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information such Payment status report or IBM WebSphere MQ messaging system.  • Implemented front end components using struts framework.  • Utilized Struts validator framework to validate the form of data.  • Used JSP to create login page, user profile, and account information pages.  • Wrote Custom tags and Tag Library Descriptor (TLD) for encapsulating dynamic functionality and used JSTL tags for populating data on the JSP.  • Developed message driven beans (MDB) 's for receiving the messages from other systems.  • Developed DAO layer using JDBC and wrote several SQL queries to store and retrieve results from database. Developed Unix Shell Scripts to perform administrator related tasks.  • Used Java Swing for developing internal GUI applications.  ENVIRONMENT: Java, J2EE, JSP, HTML, XHTML, Servlets, Java Script, Struts1.x, and Oracle10g, SWING, RAD,  Servlets, JSP, JSTL, custom tags, TLD, JDBC, Oracle, XML, JMS, IBM WebSphere, NetBeans, WSAD, rational rose, clear case, UNIX, SHELL scripting Education Bachelor's Skills DATABASE (8 years), JAVA (8 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (7 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (7 years), MVC (7 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Programming Languages JDK 1.6, 1.7, Core JAVA, J2EE  Web Technologies HTML3/5, DHTML, XHTML, CSS3, XML, XSL, XSLT, SAX, Schema, XPath, DOM, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, Node. JS, XSD, DTD  Client Scripting JavaScript, VBScript  Server Scripting JSP2.1, JSTL  Platforms Windows (7, Vista, XP, 2000, 98, NT), UNIX  Version Control Rational Clearcase, Tortoise SVN, CVS  Databases SQL Server, Oracle 11g, MySQL, DB2, Cassandra  Database Tools Toad, SQL Developer, PL/SQL Developer, MySQL workbench, DB2Connect,  ORM Frameworks Hibernate 3.0 IBatis, JPA2.1  J2EE MVC Frameworks Struts 1.2, JSF 1.2, 2.0, Spring 2.5 & 3.0, Apache Wicket  IDEs Eclipse, JBuilder 2005, 2006, iRAD, NetBeans  Web service Specifications JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, JAX-RS (Restful), ESB  Web service Implementations Axis 2.0, RESTful, SOA, SOAP  Middleware Technologies EJB3.0, JNDI, JMS, JPA, JTA, JDO  JavaScript Frameworks JQuery  Batch Scripting ANT, Maven  Methodologies Agile, Scrum, Test Driven, BDD  Messaging Technologies JMS, MDB  Transaction Control JTA, Hibernate Transactions  Loggers Log4J, SLF4J  Web Server Tomcat  Application Server WebLogic, WebSphere, Jboss, Jboss Portal server