Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer Plymouth, MI As a back-end, Java Developer boot camp student at Grand Circus Detroit, I learned to develop web applications using:     Eclipse IDE  Java Collections API  OOP  JDBC  Spring MVC  Hibernate  SQL  JPA  JSP  HTML, CSS  RESTful Web Services  Git/GitHub    Actively seeking a role in the IT industry where I can utilize my versatile skill-set and add demanded value to the organization.    Prior to this, I was in a retail management position where I played a key role in planning and successfully establishing the newly opened business around a fairly competitive market. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer Grand Circus - Detroit, MI June 2019 to Present As a back-end, Java Developer boot camp student at Grand Circus Detroit, I learned to develop web applications using:     Eclipse IDE  Java Collections API  OOP  JDBC  Spring MVC  Hibernate  SQL  JPA  JSP  HTML, CSS  RESTful Web Services  Git/GitHub    Currently working on final Project. Manager Mumbai Market Inc - Plymouth, MI December 2017 to February 2019 Worked as a Manager for a specialty retail store featuring ethnic foods and merchandise from Asia.  ? Played a key role in planning, problem solving and successfully establishing the newly opened business around a fairly competitive market.  ? Successfully negotiated and built new business relationships with vendors through extensive market research.  ? Responsible for setup and maintenance of hardware and software systems. Inventory Manager Zodiac Trading Inc - Plymouth, MI May 2010 to December 2017 Responsible to set up data management system, stock tracking and inventory count  procedures.  ? Responsible for category mapping of the data and departments. Responsible to integrate new technology as it became available like wireless scanners, wireless  barcode printers and chip technology terminals in stores.  ? Responsible for entering new product data and handle product data updates.  ? Created custom reports in MS Project for new business Projects.  ? Updated the reports to include search based on various criteria.  ? Created, analyzed and maintained a reporting system where the management can  track total sales and total cost of goods sold over a period of time.  ? Integrated a system cut-off time where no sales or other inventory-affecting  transactions are logged between pulling inventory count lists and updating the inventory count. Education Java Developer in Software Engineering Grand Circus - Detroit, MI June 2019 to August 2019 Associate in Math and Computer Science Elphinstone College - Mumbai, Maharashtra 1993 to 1995 High school or equivalent St.Teresa's High School - Mumbai, Maharashtra 1989 to 1993 Skills Eclipse, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jsp, Servlets, Git, Html, Oop, Mvc, Css, Web services, Bash, Sql Additional Information TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE    ? Java ? SQL ? Eclipse IDE  ? Spring/MVC ? Hibernate ? TDD  ? HTML/CSS ? JSP/Servlets ? OOP  ? Git/GitHub/Bash ? Web Services ? Agile-Scrum