Senior Developer Senior <span class="hl">Developer</span> Columbus, OH • I have around 8+ years of experience as Java/J2EE programmer.  • Worked in Java/j2ee, SpringBoot, SSO, JMS, JAXB, IBM MQ, Android, Spring, Struts, Java Beans, JDBC, Hibernate, MVC architecture, RWD, Exact Target email template creation using ampscript, Websphere Liberty, Web Content Management tools as SDL TRIDION using Razor Template code.  • Experienced using tools e.g IBM Rational Application Developer, Apigee, IBM Web Sphere Application Server, IBM Rational ClearCase, IBM Bluemix Platform, SVN, Android Studio, GenyMotion, SqlLite, SDL Tridion Tool(WCM), XML Spy, Microsoft Visio, Spira, Quest software TOAD, Soap UI, Exact Target, SQL developer.  • Have improved technical processes within the development team and also guide the project to successful completion at various critical situations.  • Create low/high level document with various structures and documents as per client's quality standard  • Work with team members to design a process to accomplish projects, training & guiding team members and enabling knowledge sharing among the team  • Proven abilities in managing teams and implementing the complete life-cycle of projects starting from technical design & build, system and functional testing, implementation & deployment.  • Good coordination among team along with timely reporting progress to team lead and onsite coordinator with any potential risk or issues  • Versed in both Agile and waterflow development techniques.  • Knowledge on Android Operating System and experience on developing Android Application. Ex. Social Media App, Location based app using Google plugins.  • Worked also on UE to create Responsive websites implementing changes to the CSS3, HTML5 and then integrating it with SDL TRIDION.  • Has also worked in java webservices e.g. Spring integration, IBM webservice framework.  • Use TRIDION to create schema, component, templates and add those to the specifc Pages to produce the desired output.  • Used plugins as Emma to check the code coverage while unit testing to maintain it above 75%.  • Implement the appropriate change and recheck the program until it produces the correct result by 'debugging'.  • Execute performance testing and identify bottlenecks for high volume of use as per client standard  • Knowledge on Oracle and PL/SQL.  • Knowledge on working with email template building tool exact target to create both responsive and non-responsive emails.  • Good working knowledge in all product life cycle phases, e.g. requirement, design & development, testing and post implementation support.  • Extremely result-oriented and can drive big program in terms of technology/product selection and architecture definition.  • Maintain defects and logs using defect management tool Spira or 'Solve system', Quality Center of client.  • System development and implementation, testing of individual software components, maintaining change controls interacting with the testers to clarify the defect.  • Understanding the customer's needs and expectations and managing resources to achieve customer satisfaction, ensuring zero defect project deliverable.  • Testing of individual components (unit test) and fix issues to achieve better delivery quality as per customer quality guideline.  • Participate in software release and post release activity to support the product launch. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Senior Developer Huntington Bank - Easton, OH July 2018 to Present Operating Systems Windows 10    Programming Languages : JDK 11, JDBC, Springboot, J2EE (Servlets 2.4, JSP 2.0, JSP Tag libs), Spring 5 , Spring Webflow, Spring security 5, Saml2.0, Hibernate 5, HTML5, CSS3, XML, XSL, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Junit, Maven.    Tools: IBM RAD, eclipse , IBM WebSphere Application Server,Tomcat Server , IBM WebSphere MQ, Postman, Soap UI.    Responsibilities:  • Working on a banking application to migrate it to Java 11, spring 5, hibernate 5 , spring security 5 , spring Webflow 2.5 and implement it in Springboot over ICP via image creation using docker.   • Worked in redesign of the existing applications to make them more maintainable and deployable over Icp.   • Implemented single sign on using saml2 integrated it with spring security using spring boot   • Added security layers and enhancements which made they robust and strong against any kind of blind sql injection, session hijack attacks.  •. Made the applications run in Java 11.  • Made an existing website responsive which was currently only supported over IE.   • Used agile process to streamline development process and it includes daily scrum with team.   • Used spring framework's Dependency Injection (IOC) framework to configure application component.  • Developed web services in Java and Experienced with SOAP, WSDL.  • Developed the view-controller components using Servlets/JSPs, JSF, JavaScript (JQuery).  • Developed responsive webpage using HTML5, CSS3 so it would render similar across all browsers and devices.  • Used Rational Application Developer, SQL Developer, GIT etc.   • Used maven for building and deploy applications.  • Used Log4J API for logging and debugging.  • Testing of individual components (unit test) and fix issues to achieve better delivery quality as per customer quality guidelines.  • Building application and deployment in servers as per request from the qa team.   • Developed unit testing frame work using JUnit test cases for continuous integration testing and used Senior Java/J2EE Developer Nationwide Insurance - Columbus, OH April 2014 to June 2018 Operating Systems Windows 7    Programming Languages : JDK 1.6, JDBC, J2EE (Servlets 2.4, JSP 2.0, JSP Tag libs), Spring 3.2.8, Struts 1.1, Hibernate 3.2, HTML5, CSS3, XML, XSL, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Junit, AMPScripts, Razor Template, Maven.    Tools: IBM RAD, Apigee Api Management , Mongo DB, IBM WebSphere Application Server, IBM WebSphere MQ, XML Spy, Exact Target, Soap UI, Tridion 2013, ExactTarget, SDL Tridion.    Responsibilities:  • Working on a banking application to create JSON webservice by calling a soap service.  • Worked in redesign and enhancement of call management system which existed in struts to be replaced by spring 3.  • Developed persistence Layer using Hibernate 3 to persist the data and to manage the data /  • Used agile process to streamline development process and it includes daily scrum with team.   • Used spring framework's Dependency Injection (IOC) framework to configure application component.  • Developed web services in Java and Experienced with SOAP, WSDL.  • Worked on consuming soap and restful webservices to interact with the third party applications via SOA.   • Developed the view-controller components using Servlets/JSPs, JSF, JavaScript (JQuery).  • Develop responsive webpage using HTML5, CSS3 so it would render similar across all browsers and devices.  • Used Rational Application Developer, SQL Developer, GIT etc.   • Worked on WCM tool SDL Tridion to create responsive web page using razor template.  • Used Grunt and scss to create modular JavaScript and css.  • Used Salesforce Marketing tool Exact Target to trigger emails and also create responsive email template using ampscript.  • Used maven for building and deploy applications.  • Used Log4J API for logging and debugging.  • Testing of individual components (unit test) and fix issues to achieve better delivery quality as per customer quality guidelines.  • Building application and deployment in servers as per request from the qa team.   • Developed unit testing frame work using JUnit test cases for continuous integration testing and used Java/J2EE Developer AEGON Insurance - Kolkata, West Bengal February 2011 to March 2014 Operating Systems Windows XP    Programming Languages Java/J2EE, Spring 2.5 , Struts 1.2, Hibernate, Javascript, JQuery.    Tools IBM RAD, SQL Developer, IBM WebSphere Application Server, IBM WebSphere MQ, XML Spy, Exact Target, Soap UI, Tridion 2013,    Responsibilities:  • To analysis and documenting the requirements and architecting the application based on J2EE standards. Followed test driven.  • Participated in designing of Use Case, Class Diagram and Sequence Diagram for various Engine components and used IBM Rational Rose for generating the UML notations   • Developing Action Form classes, Form beans and Action classes using struts.   • Using Hibernate for the backend persistence.   • Used Spring framework for dependency injection and integrated with Hibernate and JSF.   • Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML file that contains object declarations and dependencies.   • Implementing MVC, DAO J2EE design patterns as a part of application development.   • Developing DAO interfaces for hibernate to interact with databases.   • Designing the front end using JSP, CSS and Html as per the requirements that are provided.  • Implemented Spring MVC design pattern for User Management Application.   • Used object oriented programming to modularize the system and remove the systems interdependence and achieve the flexibility and maintainability of complex software system.  • Worked on enhancement of existing applications following struts framework to update with associated functionalities.  • Create low level document with various structures and documents as per AEGON quality standard   • Development of the code as per the design considering time-bound regulatory project   • Used object oriented programming to modularize the system and remove the systems interdependence and achieve the flexibility and maintainability of complex software system   • Implement the appropriate change and recheck the program until it produces the correct result by 'debugging'  • Implement Profiling of RAD on the java applications to analyze and optimize there behavior based on memory usage and method level execution  • Used tools e.g. FindBug which compares program’s byte code with its list of bug patterns to remove any potential error before system testing   • Testing of individual components (unit test) and fix issues to achieve better delivery quality as per customer quality guideline.  • Execute performance testing and identify bottlenecks for high volume of use as per AEGON standard   • Maintain defects and logs using defect management tool Spira or ‘Solve system’ of AEGON   • Reporting progress to team lead and onsite coordinator with any potential risk or issues   • Ensuring quality for all deliverables and defect free delivery by IQA process Education Bachelor of Technology in IT Technology Biju Patnaik University of Technology 2006 to 2010 Certifications/Licenses IBM Certified Application Developer - Cloud Platform v1 February 2016 to Present