Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Xen Infotech Princeton, NJ • 3+ years of experience in Java and J2EE technologies with multiple frameworks in IT Industry and having extensive experience in development of applications in various domains.  • 5+ years of experience in teaching graduate and post graduate students in C, C++, Java, and HTML.  • Strong Object-oriented concepts with complete software development life cycle (SDLC) experience - Requirements gathering, Conceptual Design, Analysis, Detail design, Development, System and User Acceptance Testing and documentation.  • Expertise in J2EE technologies such as Spring loc, Spring MVC, Spring Batch, Hibernate, Web Services with SOAP, Restful Web services, JavaScript, Jquery with Angular JS, Bootstrap, JNDI, JavaBeans, Servlets, JSP, JDBC.  • Experience in front-end UI development skills using scripting languages like JSP, JQuery, HTML5, and JavaScript.  • Proficient in developing SOAP Web services (Service provider) by using CXF frame work with multiple approaches and performed testing by using SOAPUI.  • Expertise in developing RESTful Web services (Service provider) by using Apache Wink frame work with multiple approaches and performed testing by using POSTER tool.  • Expertise in code quality & code coverage by using PMD, SONAR plug-in integrates with Eclipse & RAD.  • Good exposure in SQL, Oracle Pl/SQL and accomplished in Testing Frame works using JUnit.  • Proficient in Core Java Collection frameworks, multi-threading, stream API's and Exception handling techniques.  • Strong knowledge of IDE's Eclipse, IBM Rational Application Developer (RAD 7.0.0), WebSphere studio application developer.  • Used SVN, CVS, Harvest, Clear case and clear quest for version controlling and error reporting.  • Involved in creating unit testing of various layers using Junit and created automated test scripts for integration testing using selenium. Work Experience Java Developer Xen Infotech - VA November 2015 to Present • Used various features of Spring framework like JDBC Template to connect to database, Transaction Management API, annotation-based dependency injection.  • Designed and developed Microservices business components using Spring Boot.  • Used SOAP (Simple Object Access Protocol) for web service by exchanging XML data between the applications.  • Project developed as Spring Boot application  • Have extensively used Java8 features like Streams, Lambdas and functional interfaces.  • Used multithreading (Executor Service) to enhance performance of existing modules.  • Used JUnit, Mockito, Power Mockito to write unit and integration test cases.  • Used Log4j for logging framework and error handling.  • Created and built project using Maven.  • Built and deployed application in various environments using Jenkins.  • Used SOAP UI/Postman to test web services and automate them.  • Utilized SonarQube for code coverage.  • Developed test scripts using Protractor (Test like a User) which are targeted to reduce the number of regressions by performing end-to-end testing after every important build.  • Implemented Java 8 programs using with Lamda expressions.  • Used JIRA to assign, track and report progress of issues in the application.  • Coded Test Cases and created Mock Objects using Mockito and used JUnit to run test.  • Used GIT for version control and Bit Bucket as code repository.  • Project strictly runs on Agile/Scrum methodology with bi-weekly sprint.    Environment Java 8, Spring Boot, Spring Framework, RESTful webservices, JAX-RS, Jersey, JSON, JUnit, Log4j, Mockito/Power Mockito, Maven, IntelliJ, GIT, Jenkins, MS SQL Server, Toad. Assistant Professor Osmania University College for Women - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2006 to February 2012 Worked as an assistant Professor to oversee and manage classroom of 65 students providing education, mentoring and guidance in the areas of IT Programming Java, C, C++, HTML.  • Hands-on with different programming languages in the Practical lab and coached student in problem resolution.  • Lead and oversaw an average of 10 programming projects per semester where students developed and implemented for commercial businesses at no cost to them. Education Master Osmania University - Hyderabad, Telangana 2006 Bachelor of Computer Science in Mathematics Osmania University - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills JAVA (9 years), C++ (5 years), HTML (5 years), JDBC (3 years), JSON (3 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Java/J2EE Technologies Servlets, JSP (EL, JSTL, Custom Tags), JSF, Apache Struts, Junit, Hibernate 3.x, Log4J Java Beans, EJB, JDBC, RMI, JMS, JNDI.  Middleware Enterprise Java Beans (EJB) 2.0/3.0, Web Services  Application Server WebLogic, JBOSS, IBM Web Sphere  Programming Java, SQL, PL/SQL, C, C++  Web Technologies JavaScript, AngularJS, Ajax, JSON, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap  Databases Oracle, Enterprise Edition, MS-SQL Server, DB2  Tools Eclipse 3.X, MS-Office, TOAD    Operating Systems Unix-HP, Linux, Windows  Tools & Utilities Maven, Jenkins, JUnit, Mockito, JIRA