Sr. java/J2EE Developer Sr.<span class="hl">java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. java/J2EE Developer - Walgreens Chicago, IL • Around 7 years of experience in developing Web based and distributed J2EE Enterprise Applications and expertise in implementing Object Oriented Programming (OOPS) with Java, J2EE.  • Expertise in J2EE - Java, EJB, Servlets, JSP, JSF, JavaScript, Spring, Struts 1.x/2.x and ORM tools like Hibernate and iBatis.  • Experience in all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) involving Requirement Analysis, Design, Coding and Implementation.  • Experience in developing Web based GUI's using JSP, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Extensive experience using Ajax and JSON as data interchange format.  • Application development experience using multithreading, Serialization, Externalization, Collection framework, Generics and Core JAVA.  • Involved in building and deploying ANT/ MAVEN scripts for deployment and customizing WAR/ JAR file management for web applications.  • Experience in developing and deploying applications through Tomcat and application servers like IBM WebSphere, BEA Weblogic and JBoss.  • Expertise in developing application using Spring Framework that uses features of IOC, Spring MVC, Spring JDBC, Spring Batch, Spring Security and AOP features.  • Exposed to Web services SOAP (Simple object access protocol) and WSDL (Web Services Description Language).  • Experienced in developing Restful Webservices using Apache CXF.  • Experience in object oriented programming analysis with extensive full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) experience in Application Software Specifications, Design, Development, Testing and debugging, Maintenance.  • Involved in the design and development of various client and server applications/utilities which are used by polling system for different types of polls and users to get various reports and polling status using C/C++.  • Good knowledge with CVS, SVN, ClearCase and GIT version control systems.  • Working exposure in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) to develop language independent services.  • Experienced in core AWS services (S3, EC2, ELB, EBS, Route53, VPC, RDS, IAM, SNS, SQS, DynamoDB, auto scaling etc.), deployment services (OpsWorks and Cloud Formation, ECS) and security practices (IAM, Cloud watch and Cloud trail).  • Good knowledge with developing and managing cloud Virtual Machines with AWS EC2.  • Good working knowledge in migrating physical Linux/Windows servers to cloud (AWS)  using Web Services using - JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, SOAP and RESTful.  • Hands-on experience in working with XML related technologies such as DOM, SAX, XML Schema, XSL, XPath, DTD, XSD, and JAXB.  • Extensive experience in Struts framework, Hibernate(3.2.2) framework, AJAX framework, and spring framework.  • Good exposure in designing an applications using C/C++.  • Knowledge in using Mule software main framework for storing the data from database.  • Experience in relational database designing and SQL manipulation with Oracle, MSSQL, MySQL.  • Industry experience in Banking, Health care and Insurance domains.  • Experience in Analysis, Design, Code Reviews, Unit testing and Integration Testing.  • Experience in using J2EE Design Patterns like DAO Pattern, Singleton Pattern, Front Controller and Factory Pattern for reusing efficient and effective strategies for new developments.  • Developed Use Case Model, Use Case Diagrams, and Class Diagrams, sequence diagrams using Rational Rose and Microsoft Visio. Work Experience Sr. java/J2EE Developer Walgreens - Chicago, IL April 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Participates as a member of Wisconsin Immunization Registry (WIR) team.  • Design, develop, test and maintain Java applications.  • Develop technical designs for application development.  • Implemented Spring MVC framework to build the middle-tier of the application in a consistent and productive manner  • Involved in the detailed design of user interface and business layers using JSP and Servlet.  • Involved in debugging and troubleshooting related to development and production issues.  • Develop business logic using Java/J2EE/Struts technologies and publish them as Web Applications.  • Developed Micro services in order to follow the ETL process for the web services.  • Completes code to implement solutions using Java/J2EE,Struts and JavaScript.  • Applies in-depth or broad technical knowledge to maintain technology areas like Ajax, Jquery, JavaScript  • Designs, prepares and executes Unit tests.  • Implemented simulated top-down Restful Web Services to test the business logic for the rating calculation.  • Used Log4j for logging errors.  • Developed code using multithreading, Serialization, Externalization, Collection framework, Generics and Core JAVA with version 1.7.  • Development of Client side script using JSP, JavaScript 1.8, Ajax, CSS.  • Implemented Spring Boot for spring framework for the middle tier.  • Applies in-depth and/or broad technical knowledge to maintain one or more technology areas (e.g. Web-site development).  • Implemented APIGEE for all the front-end part in the application.  • Plan and coordinate the promotion of releases through development, training, staging, and production environments.    Environment: JDK 1.8, Eclipse 4.1, , Linux, Struts 1.2, Log4j, Ant, CVS Repository, Oracle SQL Developer Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Sam's West, Inc - Bentonville, AR September 2015 to February 2017 Responsibilities:  • Research, Design, Develop, Unit Test, Deployment and Support of Java based Web and Enterprise applications in both windows and UNIX environments.  • Involved in implementation of persistence layer using Hibernate and prepared Value Objects.  • Developed presentation layer using JSP, HTML, JavaScript, HTML5, and JQuery.  • Used Model View Controller pattern, JSP as the presentation layer, Struts as the controller.  • Involve in the planning of the systems development as well as the deployment.  • Develop the user interface using HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, XHTML, Servlets, JSP, and other web technologies.  • Configured JDBC in the application server.  • Built and accessed the database using Hibernate with Oracle.  • Used Front End Developing UI Interface using JSP/Tiles, JSTL, HTML5.0 CSS, JavaScript, and Ajax.  • Design, development and unit testing of the persistence layer using ORM tools such as Hibernate and JPA.  • Spring MVC architecture is used in application developement.  • Write the SQL queries for CRUD operations, and Stored Procedures.  • Develop the applications using Eclipse or Rational Application Developer.  • Develop build scripts using ANT for the build and deployment.  • Coded Test Classes using JUNIT for Unit Testing and used Win-CVS for version controlling system.  • Design and Development of Web Services to integrate with other applications.  • Used Jenkins for the labeling purpose.  • Microsoft Visual Studio 2012 is used as a repository to get the latest release required for the deployment.    Environment: JDK 1.8, Spring 3.x (MVC, DI, JDBC), Eclipse 4.1, My SQL server 5.6.17, Linux, JBoss 7.1.x, Log4j, Ant, git, Jenkins, Visual Studio 2012. Java Developer Independent Health - Buffalo, NY June 2013 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Analyzed, designed, developed RCIM tool for Sprint. Involved in PC (Production Customization) development for SDP.  • RCIM application was implemented using Spring MVC, DI, JDBC template, Spring Security and AngularJs.  • Developed Spring Controllers, implemented spring security and DAO Classes Using Spring JDBC template.  • Developed Restful web services using Spring MVC framework for uploading xls/csv files, retrieve data and used SOAP UI to test it, and developed test cases so that Functional/User testing to able to test web services.  • Used spring security for authentication of user and session for web application and for authentication of user for Restful web services.  • Worked on multiple PCs on SDP charging system for AT&T, T-mobile. Worked with Team Lead to submit solutions to SA team, designing solution, developing, testing (testng, TTCN test cases).  • Involved in code reviews, extensively used git version controller.  • To create, send, receive, and read messages using reliable, asynchronous, loosely coupled communication Java Message Service (JMS) API is widely used.  • Worked along with team on performance improvement of ECI Tool in the war room under immense pressure and successfully reduced runtime from 80 hrs to 12 hours.    Environment: JDK 1.7, Spring 3.x (MVC, DI, JDBC, REST web services and security), Eclipse 3.9, Angularjs 1.2, SOAP UI, My SQL server 5.6.17, Times Ten in memory DB, Linux, JBoss 7.1.x, Log4j, Ant, testng, mockito, git, gerrit, Jenkins. Java Developer Value Labs April 2012 to May 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirements gathering, Analysis and Documentation.  • Involved in requirement design and implementation of the system.  • Developed the front end of the application using HTML, JSP, JS and JS Frameworks.  • Used UML & Rational Rose to design the Object Model [Use Cases, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Component Diagrams].  • Implemented session beans to perform business logic and entity beans to persist or retrieve data from the Oracle 9i database.  • Developed module which performs authentication and authorization and the one which provides real-time reports on credit-usage by different entities in an organization.  • WroteJunit test cases to test DAO classes and some methods in session beans. Extensively used PL/SQL for writing queries and stored procedures in Oracle/SQL Databases.  • Created schema and processed XML to stream data across different Interfaces for authentication, authorization, charge and reversal of a real-time transaction.    Environment: JSP, Servlets, EJB, JDBC, JUnit and Oracle, Java, Struts Framework, Oracle9i, Windows xp, Web logic, Hibernate, XML, WSDL, SOAP, UML, Clear Case, HTML5, CSS3. Education Sun Certified Java Programmer NIIT Skills Ajax (3 years), Ant (5 years), CSS. (3 years), Eclipse (5 years), J2EE (3 years), java (6 years), JavaScript. (3 years), JBoss (3 years), JDBC (4 years), JSP (4 years), Linux (5 years), Model View Controller (5 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (5 years), MS SQL SERVER (3 years), MVC (5 years), Oracle (4 years), SQL (6 years), SQL server (3 years), Struts (4 years), web services. (5 years)