Java Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Full Stack Developer - Paychex Webster, NY • Senior Java/J2EE Developer with 7+ years of experience in Systems Analysis, Design, Development and Implementation of Web and Client/Server and Enterprise Application development using Java and J2EE Technologies.  • Experience on J2EE technologies including Core Java, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JNDI, JPA, JAX-WS, Struts, EJB, and spring, Hibernate, JMS, XML and JUnit.  • Experience in working with the presentation layer using HTML, CSS, JSP, JSTL, Custom Tag Libraries, JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX.  • Extensively experienced in using various design patterns such as MVC (Model-View-Controller), such as Multi-Threading, Singleton, Session Facade, Service Locator, Factory and Business Delegate in the development of Multi-Tier distributed Enterprise Applications.  • Experience in developing User Interface (UI) Applications and professional web applications using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, RWD, JSON, XHTML and XML.  • Good understanding on latest approaches in HTML5/CSS3 development, JavaScript Frameworks jQuery.  • Good Experience with JavaScript, MVC Framework AngularJS and knowledge on other frameworks like Backbone.js, Node.js.  • Extensive Knowledge in Node.js for Server Side programming.  • Experienced in building cross browser compatibility applications using AngularJS and Node.js.  • Experience with working in java script framework like JQuery, AngularJS and Node.js.  • Experience with Controllers, Views, and Stores in ExtJS.  • Experience in developing ExtJS components like Grids, Toolbars, Panels, Combo-Box and Button.  • Good Experience in working with the Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM Functions.  • Experienced both in working on Designing table-less layouts and table-based layouts.  • Expertise in Client Side designing and validations using HTML, DHTML and JavaScript.  • Experience in developing Web applications using RWD, Bootstrap, JQuery and KnockoutJS.  • Good Working Experience and understanding with Firebug for Mozilla and IE Developer Toolbar for Internet Explorer, Web Inspector for Safari, Developer Toolbar for Chrome.  • Experience using all popular text-Editors like Eclipse, Brackets, Sublime Text and Notepad++.  • Experience in installing and configuring MySQL, ORACLE and MongoDB servers.  • Deployed this framework for the traditional mobile development which includes HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Proficient in using Amazon Web Services AWS. Extensive experience focusing on services like EC2, VPC, Cloud Watch, Cloud Front, Cloud Formation, IAM, S3, Amazon RDS, ElastiCache, SNS, SQS, Lambda, Cloudwatch.  • Experience in building automated CI and CD pipeline with AWS CodePipeline, Jenkins and CodeDeploy.  • Experience in built web services using spring and CXF operating within ESB, offering REST, AWS and SOAP interfaces.  • Good work experience of Web/Application Servers like Tomcat, Web Sphere, JBoss and WebLogic.  • Extensive experience in designing User Interactive (UI) Webpages and visually appealing User Interfaces with the help front-end Technologies like HTML5, DHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, XML, DHTML, XHTML, jQuery, AJAX, JSON.  • Proficient in using RDBMS concepts with Oracle 9i/10g, DB2, MySQL and PostgreSQL.  • Proficient in programming by using the IDE's such as Eclipse, My Eclipse, RAD, Net Beans.  • Hands on experience with Multi-Threading and Collections Frameworks.  • Experience in Oracle 10g/11g/12c, PL/SQL Developer, SQL and UNIX Shell Scripting.  • Experience in implementing projects utilizing various methodologies as Waterfall, Agile SDM's.  • Excellent skills in programming using wide variety of languages and ability to adapt new latest technologies & work in Multi-Platform Environment.  • Has the motivation to take independent responsibility and be a productive team member, accompanying a strong programming and analytical background.  • Upgraded Tomcat versions through puppet by editing yaml files under heirdata in the blueprint.  • Experience in all facets of full CM process with tools such as SVN, GIT, PVCS, ClearCase, ClearQuest, Perforce, Cruise Control, Jenkins, Bamboo, Chef and Puppet. Work Experience Java Full Stack Developer Paychex - Webster, NY November 2017 to Present Description:  Paychex, Inc. engages in the provision of payroll, human resource, insurance, and benefits outsourcing solutions for small and medium sized businesses. It covers the payroll processing, payroll tax administration services, employee payment services, regulatory compliance services, Paychex HR Solutions, retirement services administration, insurance services, and eservices and other human resource services and products.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like requirements gathering, Design, Analysis, Code development and Testing.  ? Developed Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using UML.  ? Designed and developed the UI using JSP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript, React-JS  ? Designed the web responsive pages using the Bootstrap framework to give a rich look to the user interface.  ? Created detail design documents which have the UML Design diagrams, table information, object model which are required for the development.  ? Used Spring Core module for Inversion of control/dependency injection.  ? Created Spring MVC components like Dispatch servlets, hibernate configure Request mapping annotation controllers, view resolver components and implemented transaction management using Spring declarative transaction management with Spring AOP concepts.  ? Extensively used Core Java such as Exceptions and Collections.  ? Designed and developed stored procedures, triggers, views for effectively storing and retrieving related data.  ? Implemented Persistence layer using Hibernate to interact with the database.  ? Worked on Hibernate object/relational mapping according to database schema.  ? Strong understanding of Microservices patterns.  ? Prepared the technical design and developed the system MVC architecture using Spring.  ? Used Spring Framework for Dependency Injection and integrated with the Hibernate framework for interacting with the database.  ? Used several APIs of Spring Framework like Spring Core and Spring MVC.  ? Involved in creating web services using RESTful web services using Jersey fegration. Wrote build & deployment scripts using Ant, Maven on UNIX environment and worked with QA Director.  ? Unit tested each component using Junit.  ? Used Docker for creating Docker images for launching containers on AWS EC2.  ? Used AWS cloud services such as EC2, auto-scaling and VPC to provision secure build, highly scalable and flexible systems.  ? Used AWS Beanstalk for fast deploying, scaling and load balancing of web applications and services developed with Java, Node.js, Python  ? Monitored, reviewed, debugged and deployed the application.  ? Used Log4j for logging errors, messages and performance logs.  ? Participated in code review and code walkthrough and QA processesor JAX-RS implementation.  ? Implemented version controlling using GIT and used Jenkins for continuous int  ? Effectively engaged with clients and all stakeholders through weekly meetings.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Hibernate, Spring MVC, MySQL, Log4j, Apache Tomcat, RESTful Web services, Agile, GIT, Maven, Jenkins, Eclipse, Junit, HTML 5, CSS 3, JSP, Javascript, Reactjs, Bootstrap selenium and Microservices. Java Full stack Developer Paychex November 2017 to Present Java Full Stack Developer United Central Bank - Austin, TX, US June 2016 to October 2017 Description: The lending system is designed primarily to meet the origination requirements for loans that are classified as commercial loans as per the Banks policy. The Application system automate the entire loan and credit processing workflow. It covers the life cycle of a loan application, from the point of application creation through evaluation, approval, and commitment letter generation. Upon approval, the legal documentation aspects, post-closing activities and interface with legacy systems for account creation and collateral creation.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis, Design, and Development Production phases of the application.  • Designed application using UML. Elaborated on the Use Cases based on business requirements and was responsible for creation of Class Diagrams and Sequence diagrams.  • Involved and interacted with users, customers and Business users for the requirements and training with new features.  • Involved in the development using Java/J2EE Technologies, Web Services and Hibernate ORM Framework.  • Functionalities include writing code in HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, JSON, AngularJS and Bootstrap with MySQL Database as the backend.  • Developed responsive web application for backend system using AngularJS with HTML5 and CSS3.  • Currently redesigning site with everything from contact page to landing page all using ReactJS  • Built reporting module for analytic services using custom AngularJS MVC Framework Components.  • Controllers and Services that are bind using Dependency Injection to enable loose coupling between application components.  • Used Bootstrap and AngularJS in effective web design.  • Designed Prototype and project layout skeletons using ReactJS, JQuery, CSS and HTML5.  • Constructed web pages for application using MVC3, Java Script, JQuery, ReactJS, and Node.js.  • Developed user interface using JSP with JavaBeans, JSTL and Custom Tag Libraries, JS, CSS, jQuery, Node.js, HTML, SASS and Ajax to speed the application.  • Used React JS to create multiple components of the dashboards and redux JS to maintain application state  • Integrated the Java Code (API) in JSP pages and responsible for setting up AngularJS framework for UI development. Developed HTML views with HTML5, CSS3/SASS, Bootstrap, Node.js and AngularJS.  • Used D3 js and High charts plugin for visualizations.  • Build SOAP Web Services based on AWS (Amazon Web Services).  • Developed JUnit Test Cases for Unit testing & for Continuous Integration we used Jenkins.  • Used Jenkins which is an open source continuous integration tool written in java which provides  Integration services for software development.  • Created and maintained the framework and layout of each portal with Cascading Style Sheets (CSS)  • Successfully implemented Auto Complete/Auto Suggest functionality using Ajax, JQuery, DHTML, Web Service Call and JSON.  • Responsible to manipulate HTML5, CSS3 in jQuery as well as making the pages dynamic using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Created Call flow diagrams for IVR applications using VISIO.  • Used STRUTS Framework in designing the IVR application.  • Wrote JAVA Servlets that generates dynamic VXML.  • Mainly involved in support, Maintenance and enhancement of the application.  • Played a significant role in design and development of the VUI.  • Responsibilities included development of new modules of the application such as Web using J2EE Technologies, Struts and Spring Framework.  • Developed MVC Controllers and deployed flow of Execution in the Servlet Environment using Spring MVC.  • Extensively used Core Spring Framework for Dependency Injection of components.  • Implemented Web Services using Spring RESTful.  • Developed Hibernate with Spring Integration as the data abstraction to interact with the database.  • Used ANT Scripts to fetch, build and deploy the application to development environment.  • Used Hibernate for mapping java classes with database and created queries with Hibernate Query language (HQL)  • Developed model objects using Hibernate.  • Application developed using RAD.  • Maintained version control using GIT.  • Used Log4j utility to log error, info and debug messages.  • Worked extensively on AngularJS in creating Controllers.  • Implemented backend process for sending the data through FTP.  • Developed JSF application with Spring Boot.  • Worked with Maven to web design and implement application using Spring Integrations and Spring Security.  • Supporting to testers to test AngularJS 2 with Jasmine and Protractor.  • Worked with JMS as messaging service and JTA for Transaction management and having knowledge with JPA for Java persistence.  • Using JMS to send email or notify companies or users who have subscribed particular services in our product.  • Developed customer facing software for managing advertisements to grow the business using JavaScript/jQuery, HTML 5 and CSS.  • Deployed application using WebSphere Application Server.  • Implemented client-side Java-beans for DAO Pattern.  • Evaluated Prototype JavaScript Framework.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring MVC, RESTful Web Service, Hibernate, JMS, AJAX, JSP, MySQL, Servlets, Web Sphere Application Server, AngularJS, MS Visio, CSS, JavaScript, HTML 5, ANT, Windows, RAD, GIT, Bit Bucket, Gulp,Log4j, FTP, DAO, XML, JavaScript, Struts Framework, Spring Frame work, JavaBeans, Node.js, JSTL, Bootstrap, ReactJS, D3 js, Jenkins, SASS. Full Stack Developer Aflac - Columbus, GA August 2015 to May 2016 Description: This is an online insurance quoting and policy application, which enables customers to quote an insurance coverage policy through web. This application delivers online services including customer information, policy premium, and monthly payments, new product offerings and customer correspondence with the company. Auto insurance laws may vary from one state to another.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in System Requirements study and conceptual design.  • Followed Scrum concepts of the Agile Methodology to produce high Quality Software.  • Client Side code were written in ReactJS, JQuery and Server Side Code were developed using MVC4.  • Implement the application MVC, ReactJS.  • Used CSS Preprocessor SASS to make CSS more efficient.  • Worked on CSS frameworks like Bootstrap and preprocessors like SASS.  • Maintaining separate build in Maven for the module for easy integration to the portal build and configure with Jenkins.  • Used Jenkins to build and deploy the application.  • Developed web UI screens using Spring MVC, AngularJS, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and CSS.  • Conducted gap analysis and developed data migration and integration plans.  • Developed RESTful Web Service using REST Jersey API.  • Used AWS to build Java applications that work with Amazon S3, Amazon EC2, Amazon SimpleDB, and more.  • Developed Spring Services, DAO's and defined routes using Apache Camel.  • Developed messaging module using Spring JMS, Apache Camel and ActiveMQ.  • Integrated Hibernate with spring for Handling Transactions.  • Developed applications with SQL Server.  • Developed restful web services using Jersey and spring and developed rest services using Node.js and other node modules.  • Developed stored procedures, Triggers and functions to process the data using SQL and mapped it to Hibernate Configuration File and also established data integrity among all tables.  • Consumed RESTful Web Services.  • Implemented Hibernates' Lazy default fetch plans for generating proxies and collection wrappers and also created fetching strategies for minimizing the number of SQL Statements.  • Involved in unit testing, integration testing, SIT and UAT phases. Performed defect tracking, bug fixing and enhancements.  • Created quality working J2EE code to design, schedule, and cost to implement use cases. Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) SNS to send messages to email and http endpoint.  • Used Hibernate annotations for mapping objects to the relational database and Implemented persistence using Hibernate, managed Hibernate.cfg.xml file.  • Used XML to transfer the application data between client and server.  • Have done debugging to fix issues.  • Deployed application using Tomcat application Server.  • Used Maven for dependency and build management.  • Used SVN as version control.  • We Automated and Designed Development process with Gulp.  • Application developed using NetBeans.  • Testing the java services by using JUnit.  Environment: Java, Agile, Spring MVC, AngularJS, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSP, NetBeans, XML, Hibernate, RESTful Web Service, Tomcat, SVN, Ajax, JUnit, SQL Server, AWS, ActiveMQ, Node.js, Maven, Spring JMS, ReactJS, D3 js, Jenkins, SASS. Java/J2EE Developer PNC Financial Services - Pittsburgh, PA, US September 2014 to July 2015 Description: PNC Financial Services Group is a financial holding company that offers services like Insurance, investment and loans. The application offers various features like creating new accounts, managing existing accounts and personal loan applications  Responsibilities:  • Designed business applications using web technologies like HTML, XHTML and CSS based on the W3C Standards.  • Implemented the MVC architecture using the Struts Framework.  • Designed Dynamic and Multi-browser compatible pages using HTML, CSS, jQuery and JavaScript.  • Developed the User Interface using HTML 5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX.  • Developed UI using HTML5, CSS3, ExtJS, Bootstrap, jQuery and JSP for interactive cross browser functionality and complex user interface.  • Designed Web Application User Interface, interaction scenarios and navigation based on analysts, interpretations of requirement and use cases.  • There is a configuration widget written in CSS3, Java Script and jQuery Framework in UI Layer with Tag library, application deployed and tested on Linux.  • Developed different GUI Screens using JSP and user validations using JavaScript.  • Effectively implemented AJAX in developing dynamic web pages  • Used jQuery to traverse through a DOM tree and manipulated the nodes in the tree.  • Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using jQuery Framework.  • Brief experience on implementing the AngularJS and MVC Framework for data access.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  • Involved in developing XUL, HTML, and JavaScript for client side presentation and data validation on the client side within the forms.  • Implemented Web Services (SOAP) for transmission of large blocks of JSON data over HTTP.  • Developed Action controller, Action Forms, Tiles Structure, Validation Structure (for data validation), JSP, Form Beans, AJAX Code, JavaScript and worked on integration.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON.  • Worked with Cross-Browser Compatible issues.  • Developed application using STS.  • Wrote application level code to perform client side validation using jQuery and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed intranet web applications using JavaScript and CSS.  • Created and Modified DAO's to communicate with DB2.  • Worked on project build-script by using ANT.  • Used Log4j for tracking the applications.  • Maintained the application modules in version control using Clear Case.  Environment: HTML 4/5, XHTML, Struts Framework, CSS, ExtJS, Bootstrap, Linux, DOM, XUL, JavaScript, AJAX, Log4j, JSON, JAVA, SOAP Web Services, JSP, API, DAO, BD2, jQuery, AngularJS, JSON, JSTL, STS, DB2, Clear Case, MS Office, ANT. Java Front End Developer Humana Healthcare - Louisville, KY, US October 2012 to August 2014 Description: Humana healthcare makes the health care insurance experience simpler, easier and better for everyone involved by delivering practical and innovative solutions that meet unique customer needs.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the design and development of the entire application.  • Involved in Analysis, Design, and Implementation of software applications using Java, J2EE, XML and XSLT and Webservices (REST, WSDL).  • Developed UI using HTML5, CSS3, Ext JS, JQuery, and JSP for interactive cross browser functionality and complex user interface.  • Created and optimized graphic prototype websites and applications interfaces using HTML5 and CSS3.  • Proficiency in implementing the design to meet web standards (W3C), SEO and worked on various browsers for cross-browser implementation.  • Involved in the creation of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using Angular.js, Node.js, Ext JS and JQuery UI.  • Involved in implementation of Spring MVC framework and developed DAO and Service layers. Configured the controllers, and different beans such as Handler Mapping, View Resolver etc.  • Developed web based presentation using JSP, AJAX using YUI components and Servlet technologies and implemented using Struts framework.  • Developed the User Interface using spring, logic, bean, JSP, Java Script, HTML5 and CSS3.  • Involved in creating the Hibernate POJO Objects and mapped using Hibernate Annotations.  • Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural Pattern using Struts Framework including JSP, Servlets, EJB, Form Bean and Action classes.  • Used the Node.js and Angular.js MVC Frameworks in the development of the web applications.  • Designed Responsive Web Design websites optimized for different displays.  • Involved in several web application development projects that required Responsive Web Design.  • Created UML diagrams (use case, class, sequence, and collaboration) based on the business requirements  • Involved in designing and developing dynamic web pages using HTML and JSP with Struts tag libraries.  • Developed Web services to allow communication between the applications using Rest Web Services.  • Designed, Developed and analyzed the front-end and back-end using JSP, Servlets and Spring.  • Designed JSP layout using Struts Tiles Framework.  • Used JavaScript for client-side validation and Struts Validator Framework for form validations  • Implemented SQL queries and used stored procedures, and built-in functions to retrieve and update data from the databases.  • Also wrote complex queries in SQL involving joins to obtain required data from the persistent layer.  • Used JavaScript validation in JSP pages.  • Used Hibernate Framework for object relational mapping and persistence.  • Interfaced with the Oracle back-end using Hibernate Framework and XML config files.  • Used Eclipse for the development environment.  • Wrote JUnit test cases to test the functionality of each method in the DAO layer.  • Configured and deployed the web application using Weblogic Application Server.  • Used Rational ClearQuest for tracking errors and bugs in the project source code.  • Prepared technical reports and documentation manuals for efficient program development.  Environment: J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Struts Framework, Struts Tiles Framework, HTML5, CSS3, EJB 3.0, JQuery, Ajax, Struts Validator Framework, JavaScript, XML, SQL, WebLogic application server, Eclipse, JUnit, CVS, Unix, Adobe Flex 3.6. Java Developer Dredging Corporation of India Ltd May 2011 to September 2012 Responsibilities:  • Participated in all the phases of SDLC including Requirements Collection, Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications, Development and Customization of the application.  • Developed high level design documents, Use case documents, detailed design documents and Unit Test Plan documents and created Use Cases, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams using UML.  • Development of GUI for HTML and JSP Versions. Java Servlets were used as the common gateway interface between the client and server.  • Servlets are used to service requests from UI to manipulate Business Objects and invoke respective EJBs for making database updates.  • Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several Java/J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate, MVC, Session Façade, Factory Method, Service Locator, Singleton and Data Transfer Objects (DTO).  • Configured Web Application Context as a Context Listener in the web.xml file to Integrating Spring with JSF.  • Designed and Developed Web Services using technologies WSDL, SOAP to communicate to the other modules.  • Wrote various Hibernate Queries using Hibernate Query Language (HQL) and hibernate criterion queries to execute queries against database.  • Developed complex service components for Data Access Layer, DAO classes to interact with backend using Java and Hibernate Framework.  Environment: HTML, CSS, jQuery, JavaScript, W3C Standards, AJAX, JSON, JSTL Taglibs, Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Spring, Hibernate, SOAP, WSDL. Education btech jntu Skills J2EE (7 years), JAVA (7 years), JSP (7 years), HTML (7 years), WEB SERVICES (7 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages Java, J2EE, C, C++, SQL, PL/SQL.  Java Technologies Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JMS, EJB, RMI, Web Services, SOAP, Log4j  Distributed Technologies Web Services, JMS, WebSphere MQ  IDE WSAD, Eclipse, RAD, Spring STS, NetBeans  Framework  Struts, Spring MVC, Spring(Boot, Cloud, Integration and Security)., Hibernate, Apache axis for Web Services, Data Binding, MVVM.    Web/Application Servers Apache Tomcat, WebLogic, WebSphere, JBoss, web pack, NPM  Web Technologies HTML, DHTML, AJAX, CSS, Bootstrap, AngularJS2/4, XML, DOM, GWT, XPath, DOM, DTD and ReactJS  Methodologies SDLC, UML, Design Patterns, SOA  Version Control Systems CVS, Clear Case, SVN, GIT, BIT Bucket  Operating System All Versions of Microsoft Windows, UNIX and LINUX  Database Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g/12C, MySQL, DB2, SQL Server  Application Testing Jasmine, Protractor, Gulp.  AWS EC2, S3, RDS, DynamoDB, Lambda, API Gateway