Java Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Full Stack Developer - CVS Health Chicago, IL • 8+ years of IT experience in the areas of Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of web based and client server multi-tier applications using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Involved in distinct phases of Software development life cycle (SDLC) and working with Agile methodology and good understanding of Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  • Expertise in developing secure web applications and server-side development using JSP, JSF, Servlets, EJBs, XML, Web Services (SOAP & REST), JDBC, Spring, Hibernate, Oracle, PL/SQL and various Design Patterns such as Model-View-controller (MVC), Singleton, Session Façade, Business Delegate, and Service Locator  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by angular 2.  • Multi-project experience with lightweight Java solutions, with a focus on Spring, Spring Boot, Spring Integration, Spring Data, SOA, REST, Oracle, MEAN Stack.  • Expertise in Core Java Object Oriented concepts like Multithreading, Exception Handling, Collections.  • Expertise in Data Structures, Designing and Scaling of the web applications.  • Good understanding of Hadoop architecture, Hadoop Distributed File System and various components such as HDFS, Name Node, Data Node, Job Tracker, Resource Manager, Task Tracker, Node Manager, YARN and MapReduce concepts.  • Strong knowledge of Algorithms & Data Structures, OOP's, Collections, DAO, Model, Controller, Filters, mapping POJO classes to database.  • Extensively worked in front end JavaScript framework Angular.JS, Node.JS, React.JS and Worked on Backbone.JS, Require.js, Ext.JS.  • Expertise in developing web based UIs using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, DOJO, AJAX and Bootstrap.  • Proficient in building JSON based RESTful web services using different frameworks.  • Hands on experience in implementing web applications using frameworks like Spring (IOC, DI, AOP, Spring MVC, Spring Test module and integration with ORM tools like Hibernate.  • Extensive working experience in RDBMS design and implementation in Oracle, DB2, MySQL, PL/SQL, MS SQL Server and PostgreSQL.  • Extensive knowledge on tables, views, Materialized views, procedures, packages using Oracle.  • Experience in managing MongoDB, Cassandra environment from availability, performance and scalability perspectives.  • Knowledge of DevOps principles and practice.  • Implemented cruise control using build tools like Ant, Maven and Gradle scripts and tested the application using Cucumber, JBehave.  • Worked on Gulp & Grunt to ensure seamless & optimized builds for production.  • Good knowledge of JavaScript testing frameworks Jasmine, Karma and Mocha to write the tests on both client side and server side.  • Expertise in Logging, build management, Transaction management and used end to end testing frameworks like Junit, Selenium and Protractor and logging frameworks like Log4j I & II, Logback.  • Extensively worked on Build and deployment scripts using Ant, Maven, Unix Shell scripts.  • Used Microsoft GIT, Apache SVN and CVS as a source repository with different clients.  • Expertise in using J2EEApplication Servers such as IBM WebSphere, WebLogic, JBoss and Web Servers like Apache Tomcat.  • Used Apache Camel for routing the exchanges between different systems.  • Experienced in developing and deploying applications to AWS using continuous integration tools like Jenkins and used Docker for creating and setting up the images of Project in different environments.  • Good experience on Web application and implementation of Amazon Web Services (AWS) using AWS SDK for Java with Amazon EC2, Amazon Simple Storage services (S3) and Amazon RDS.  • Experienced in Developing the Applications from end-to-end and can fit in anywhere in the project.  • Excellent problem solving, analytical, interpersonal, communication skills and Organizational skills with team lead capabilities. Ability to work in-groups as well as independently with minimal supervision. Ability to learn new languages and Tools quickly. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Full Stack Developer CVS Health - Chicago, IL March 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Analyzed the technical requirements and created various models required for the project. Implemented Model View Controller (MVC) architecture using Spring Framework.  • Involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) like Analysis, Designing, Developing, Testing, and Finalizing.  • Used Agile software development with monthly Sprints, and daily Scrums to discuss the development and achieve TDD (Test driven development approach).  • Designed and implemented rich UI and custom form validation features using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Angular JS and React.JS.  • Experienced in React.JS and working with React Flux architecture.  • Experienced in working with Redux architecture.  • Working with React Router for developing Single Page Applications SPAs. Experienced in developing React components.  • Working experience with Typescript new features block scope, type restrictions, decorators, arrow functions, classes, interfaces and modules (import and exports).  • Hands on Javascript/ES6 development on Node.JS platform with React, Redux libraries.  • Project was in Javascript (React, Redux, ES6/7, Webpack) with Java backend.  • Involved in implementation of MVC pattern using Angular JS with routing and templates to know the recent appointments of the Inpatients, payment transaction management.  • Worked with Angular Filters to sort the history of appointments through order of date, year and month using custom directives for a format of the history of appointments and medical details in tables using Bootstrap.  • Worked on the enhancements of the navigation and menu button into device responsive feature using Bootstrap.  • Created custom, self-contained, reusable and testable Angular JS modules, controllers, directives and services to implement key functionalities for customer account summary.  • Used AJAX in Angular JS to call REST web services and populate values in views by utilizing ng-grid, ng-repeat to show tabular data.  • Involved in Requirement gathering, Business Analysis and translated business requirements into Technical design in Hadoop.  • Experience working with big data and real time/near real time analytics and big data platforms like Hadoop, Spark using programming languages like Scala and Java.  • Involved in end to end implementation of Big data design.  • Designed the tables and modules using My SQL, HTML and PHP.  • Design and development experience with Big Data, AWS, Python, Hbase NoSQL, Scala, Hadoop Eco System Components like Hive, Sqoop, HDFS, AWS, BI reporting.  • Implementing new inheritance models using Ruby.  • Maintain and develop e-commerce websites for specific clients using PHP/MYSQL and Wordpress.  • Designed and developed a simple budgeting desktop application in Java Swing.  • Designed multiple screens using various Swing Components and layouts.  • Performed JavaScript testing with Jasmine, Karma.  • Used data structures such as linked lists, vectors, stacks, queues, etc.  • Implemented a multi-threaded program for parallel file access using POSIX threads API in C.  • Coded a three-tier application involving a couple of server programs, a gateway program, and a client program using BSD and TCP as well as multithreading in C.  • Worked in creating various dynamic data visualization Charts for the payment history by creating pie charts using D3.js.  • Implemented JAVA/J2EE design patterns such as Factory, DAO, Session Façade, and Singleton.  • Developed web-based Patient management software using JSF and Spring.  • Maintained the Selenium & JAVA automation code and resources in source controls like TFS/Git over the time for improvements and new features.  • Testing the web-based application manually and also used Selenium (Web Driver) for Automation.  • Used Hibernate to query Oracle database and return results to the front-end.  • Worked on Oracle 11g as the backend database.  • Created database objects like tables, views, Materialized views, procedures, and packages using PL/SQL.  • Automate the project's build infrastructure using Maven.  • Used maven for creating reports, checks, build and testing automation setups.  • Used SPRING for the view and Controller layer successfully.  • Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in Spring 4 framework using Dependency Injection (DI) with annotations.  • Developed few dashboards in Tableau for the end users.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Designed and developed Microservices business components using Spring Boot.  • Involved in the migration of Platform from legacy Java services into Microservices architecture, decomposing monolith applications in a set of discrete services.  • Lead the Team in migrating the services in a fast paced environment on a test driven approach.  • Used Spring Boot framework for building cloud Micro Services and to develop Spring based application radically faster with very less configuration.  • Analyzed the Maven dependency management in base code in order to annotate the dependencies on to Spring Boot application in to Gradle for Micro Services.  • Used Spring AOP for cross cutting concerns like logging, security and history management.  • Introduced Hibernate in this Project for the first time in place of EJB and made a successful implementation of POJO (Plain Old Java Objects).  • Used Hibernate annotation to control data fetching and cascading type and batch size to improve the data access performance.  • Implemented object relational mapping in the persistence layer using hibernate framework in conjunction with Spring IO and Spring Boot, Spring Security functionality.  • Developed server-side services using Spring Web Services (SOAP, WSDL).  • Implemented Web-Services to integrate between different applications (internal and third-party components using SOAP and RESTFUL services.  • Worked in consuming RESTful web services to fetch the data of Inpatients history of the logged users in the view recent Treatments using Node.JS, Express.JS.  • Worked on creating Medical statements through Node.JS and worked on the chat module utilizing web sockets to transmit JSON/Swagger data string and render them using Node.JS web socket.  • Used Java Naming/Directory Interface (JNDI).  • Extensively worked on Build and deployment scripts using Ant, Maven, Unix Shell scripts and AutoSys jobs.  • Configured Autosys scheduler jobs, which runs Unix Shell scripts.  • Extensive experience in developing Unix shell scripts.  • Wrote NoSQL queries and procedures to fetch the data from MongoDB for accounts.  • Hosted and tested the application in AWS servers before publishing it in the actual production environment and developed API for using AWS Lambda to manage the servers and run the code in the AWS.  • Used AWS cloud for creating background and multiple workflows & used Amazon cloud watch to monitor AWS Elasticsearch services & Amazon cloud watch logs to monitor application.  • Packaged and deployed the application in WebLogic in different environments likes development and testing.  • Involved in using continuous integration tool Jenkins to push and pull the project code into GitHub repositories sprints  • Managed servers on the Amazon Web Services (AWS) platform instances using Chef Configuration management.  • Developing scripts for build, deployment, maintenance and related tasks using Jenkins, Docker, Maven.  • Developed and executed Unit Test plans using Junit and Protractor, ensuring that results are documented and reviewed with Quality Assurance teams responsible for integrated testing.  • Performed code build using MAVEN, Used Maven for application life cycle management and JIRA for defect tracking.  • Create custom forms, CSS page definitions, business rules, web service interactions, Groovy scripting for validations, workflow rules and activities etc.  • Deployed the Application EAR and RESTful Services on WebLogic Application Server.  • Involved in Production Support and Maintenance of the application and troubleshooting of Issues on WebLogic by checking logs, history etc.  • Participated in configuration management, change management activities and code re-views.  Environment: Java 8, J2EE, Spring 4.3, Spring boot, Hibernate, Oracle, SOAP UI, RESTful, JSON, JUnit, Protractor, Html5, CSS3, JavaScript, Express.JS, Angular JS 2.0, React.JS, Node.js, Karma, Linux, Eclipse, Maven, JIRA, GIT, Unix Shell Scripting, Load Runner, AWS EC2, Lambda, Elasticsearch, AWS cloud watch. Java Full Stack Developer Swift INC - Culpeper, VA January 2017 to February 2018 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the application in sprints using Agile Scrum methodology and participated in weekly status meetings and daily scrums and SOA.  • Designed and developed web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery, React.JS and JSP based on the W3C standards.  • Used JQuery plugins for Drag-and-Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms.  • Used JQuery to handle the client-side validations and to traverse through a DOM tree and manipulated the nodes in the tree.  • Used Angular JS (grid) for Grid data displays all over the application and also developed Light-box plugins using Angular JS.  • Develop cross browser compatible web pages quickly and effectively using jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Responsive Web Design, Bootstrap and Angular JS.  • Developed single page application by using Angular JS backed by MongodB and NodeJS.  • Developed REST API for assessment indicators module and token-based authentication for REST services using Spring Security.  • Used Core Java concepts Collections, Encapsulation and used Data structure such as trees, heaps, hash tables.  • Involved in development activities using Core Java/J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JSF used for creating web application, XML and Springs.  • Worked with core Java code extensively using interfaces and multi-threading techniques.  • Worked on Asset Management Module to develop services using Restful Web services and collaborated on design spec reviews together with Business Analysts.  • Experience in cross browser compatibility testing and intellectual challenges in User Experience with Bootstrap.  • Implemented Spring services and Spring DAO's for controller interactions to operate on data & developed asynchronous message listeners using Spring JMS template.  • Designed and developed Business components and Integrated with Spring framework and also developed various reusable Helper and Utility classes, which are used across all the modules of the application.  • Worked in Tableau environment to create dashboards like weekly, monthly, daily reports using tableau desktop & publish them to server.  • Deployed flow of Execution in the Servlet Environment using JSF and defined Navigation Rules for handling page Navigations using Spring Web Flow.  • Systematic and careful usage of Java & SWING UI specific multi-threading and synchronization concepts to launch newer screens or update UI data across multiple screens considering SWING strengths & limitations and still giving users virtually smoother transitions.  • Developed Spring Batch application for batch processing using Spring4.0 & improved the performance of the backend batch processes using Multithreading and concurrent package API.  • Converted the following existing APIs developed in TIBCO to SpringBoot microservices.  • Implemented customers wallet management services (create wallet, update wallet, delete wallet) using SpringBoot microservices.  • Performed parameterization of the automated test scripts in Selenium to check how the application performs against multiple sets of data.  • Contributed in developing Automation Framework that uses Java, Selenium Web Driver and TestNG.  • Created automated scenarios, framework using Selenium for regression testing.  • Development of Frontend pages with PHP MVC Frameworks and Java Script frameworks like Angular.  • Developed Object Oriented PHP application and Drupal and designed different front end forms using CSS.  • Implement PHP code and JavaScript code into Drupal for greater customization.  • Wrote PHP Scripts/PHPUnits for application logic and access database (MySQL) layer.  • Implemented state-of-the art API Management platform providing insightful and actionable data on application, performance, and user behavior.  • Worked with advanced MVC framework such as Spring-IOC, AOP, MVC and Batch, which is used for implementing backend functionality.  • Reverse Engineered using Hibernate plug-in for RAD to generate Hibernate configuration, POJO classes, DAO classes and wrote finder methods using Hibernate Query Language (HQL) for dynamic searches.  • Used PostgreSQL database to store relational data.  • Experience in installation, configuration and deployment of J2EE components on WebLogic using Eclipse IDE.  • SFTP server was critical that it remain intact and have enough storage space for files so a retention time was set of 7 days unless the project needed files longer.  • Responsible for setting up users sftp accounts which included assisting users in creation of RSA/DSA keys for the connections and any support issues using sftp.  • Used Order Management DTDs and did translation using XML Gateways.  • Developed Real Time Interfaces, used Business Events, Workflows to send data through XML Gateway.  • Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, indexes, sharding, replication, and schema design.  • Created collections and performed CRUD operations on MongoDB using Node Mongoose and used mongo Repository and Spring Mongo Template for persistence.  • Used AWS Cloud Formation template for deployment services to quickly set up a dynamic website and configured virtual servers using AWS EC2 and responsible for maintaining and expanding our AWS infrastructure using AWS EC2/EBS.  • Developed code in Java, which creates mapping in Elasticsearch even before data is indexed.  • Used AWS S3 to store data and to retrieve the stored date very quickly Used AWS SNS to send messages to multiple users.  • Established agile software delivery team by recruiting and mentoring 1 architect, 2 UI/UX developers and 4 software engineers for banking technology and cloud native application development.  • Testing and validation activities using Teradata RDBMS for all the phases.  • Load data into internal RDBMS, whose frontend was an GUI tool.  • Implemented business rules using drools.  • Develop, extend and bug fix using Java/J2ee and Drools.  • Developed the integration workflows using an ESB framework.  • Good experience in working with Anypoint studio of Mule ESB.  • Involved in writing Maven scripts for automated deployment of the application and managed GitHub Projects and migrated from SVN to GitHub with merge and version and used Jenkins for continuous integration.  • Wrote Technical design document with the class, sequence, and activity diagrams in each use case and involved in writing Spring MVC rest controllers for UI interactions and server-side validations.  • Involved in working with the QA to assist in writing test code and debugging the defects in the application.  Environment: Java 1.7, React.JS, Spring, JSP, Maven, JUnit, Agile Scrum, WebLogic, RESTful Webservices, HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, TDD, JPA, JavaScript, JQuery, JQuery UI, Bootstrap, Apache CXF, Node.JS, Hibernate, JMS, PostgreSQL, Unix, MongoDB, Selenium, Eclipse, Maven, Git, Core-IOC, AOP, Log4J, AWS EC2, Elasticsearch, S3, JIRA. Java Developer Molina Healthcare - Houston, TX December 2014 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Handled all the client-side validations, show controls, dropdown menus and tab navigation using React.JS, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, and Require.JS.  • Performed Web Service testing using SOAP UI. Designed SOAP web services API interactions for data transfer from client to server and vice versa.  • Developed innovative and quality solutions by making use of latest tools and technologies like Spring-AOP.  • Developed the Spring-AOP programming to configure logging for the application. Developed and executed unit test cases using TestNG.  • Used JACOCO plugin for test coverage.  • Involved in the process of load, transform and analyze health care data from various providers into Hadoop using flume on an on-going basis.  • Documented unit test cases using Selenium.  • Implemented automation using Cucumber.  • Worked with data parsing forms such as JSON, to dynamically display data.  • Created Persistence classes using JPA.  • Implemented JPA database persistence layer to communicate with Oracle.  • Implemented business logic using Spring Boot and Spring Security.  • Proficient in implementing application using Apache Camel.  • Wrote extensive PL/SQL and SQL Queries for data retrieval and data manipulation using JDBC on Oracle.  • Extensively used CouchDB Database and wrote CouchDB views for the applications data.  • Performed code reviews and enhancement of application using Grunt.  • Used Jasmine test cases for implementation of Angular JS code.  • Involved in Module and Unit level testing with LogBack. Developed dynamic web applications in java using Brackets.  • Core Service is developed as maven jar that can be included by other Microservices as their maven dependency.  • Core service uses the main database and the other Microservices use their individual databases to access and store data.  • Server instances are created on AWS. Tomcat was installed and used for deploying Microservices.  • Developed Web Application using WebStorm framework and Used GitHub.  • Integrated and implemented GitHub API's to configure and list the existing project  repositories by using RESTful Web services.  • Worked on WebLogic for stage testing and application deployment.  • Used GIT for version control.  • Worked on developing UML Use Class Diagrams, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration and deployment.  • Utilized Rally Agile Portal to update/track status of user stories/tasks.  • Used Pivotal cloud foundry for AWS managing instances.  Environment: React.JS, Require.js, HTML 4.0.1, CSS 3, JavaScript 3.1, Bootstrap, JQuery UI, Soap 1.2, Spring AOP 3.2.3, TestNG, Jacoco 0.6.3, Selenium 2.22, Cucumber 1.3.2, JSON 1.8.0, JPA 2.1, Oracle 11g, Spring Boot, Apache Camel, JDBC 4.1, Couch DB, Grunt 0.4.1, Jasmine 1.3.1, Linux, Logback 1.0.13, Brackets 22, WebLogic, GIT, UML 2.4, Jenkins 1.4, Rally, PCF, AWS. Java Developer Optum - Quincy, MA December 2012 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed front-end using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and JQuery UI featuring the implementation  • Developed the application with Core Java concepts collections, Exceptions.  • Developed warm-up programs in core java to load recently logged in user profile information into Mongo DB.  • Developed core java multi threading processes extract and upload data from text files to Elastic search and schedule them as nightly batch processes  • Struts framework for MVC design Pattern, Action class, Action Servlets, Form Bean.  • Created JSP screen by assembling Struts Tiles and Taglibs and used HTML for static webpage And JavaScript for View part of the project.  • Used Eclipse IDE for writing code and BEA WebLogic as application server.  • Used data structures such as linked lists, vectors, stacks, queues, etc.  • Implemented simulated top-down SOAP based Web Service to test the business logic for the rating calculation.  • Used JDBC, MQ Series, Web Service, and Hibernate framework to access the data from back-end MSSQL database server.  • Used Stored Procedures to crunch data and creating view for fetching data from multiple tables on MSSQL Server.  • Used Java Persistence API (JPA) for managing relational data mapping.  • Spring framework to implement bean to declare a service and accessed those using Application context.  • JMS for sending and receiving Message through application server.  • Involved in developing the applications using Spring Framework for Dependency Injection (Inversion of Control), Implemented the business logic using EJB (session and entity beans)  • Used XMLSAX to parse the simulated xml file, which has simulated test data.  • Used SVN for version control.  • Used Log4J logging framework to write Log messages with various levels.  • Developed Automated Test Application, which validates various XML document using Junit and XSLT.  • Used JRockit JDK to develop and run the underwriting workbench application.  • Used GWT and WAS migration.  • Followed Agile Methodology during the development process.  • Work with DNS to map the website to its IP address.  • Extensively used GWT for developing Ajax applications.  • Used Maven to validate, compile and deploy the files.  Environment: JDK 1.5, Java/J2EE, EJB, JSF 1.0, Hibernate 3.0, Jakarta Struts 2.0, Spring 3.0, JSP, CSS, JSTL, JDBC, Servlets, XML, JRockit, JUnit, JavaScript, JMS, Agile Programming, Html, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, JQuery UI, Eclipse 3.1, GWT, MSSQL Server 2005, Cassandra, Ajax, AXIS, Web Services JAX-WS, BEA WebLogic Server 8.1, UML, Maven, UNIX, SVN. Java Developer Aveva - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2011 to November 2012 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed web application using SOA.  • Designed front-end components using JSF.  • Developed business requirements using Java, JSF (IcsFaces), Spring MVC and Hibernate ORM frameworks.  • Used Core Java concepts multithreading, collections.  • Prepared unit test cases using JUnit and Mockito frameworks.  • Used JACOCO plugin for test coverage.  • Developed end-to-end test cases using Protractor. Designed and executed test cases using JBehave.  • Created Persistence classes using JPA annotations.  • Used Spring AOP module to handle the entire transaction with the database.  • Used Oracle DB as the backend database.  • Wrote procedures, views and packages by PL/SQL queries on Oracle DB.  • Wrote queries to save the data and retrieve the data from Oracle database using spring.  • Proficient in making script for information displaying and information import and fare. Broad involvement in sending, overseeing and creating MongoDB clusters.  • Used tool Webpack as task runner and for arranging and coordinating the build process.  • Worked with Log4J for printing the log, debug and warning information on the server console.  • Development carried out under Eclipse Integrated Development Environment (IDE).  • Used Maven as build tool and Jenkins for continuous integration development.  • Used Maven for building the application and deployed on JBoss.  • Used version controller tool CVS.  • UML diagrams like use cases, class diagrams, interaction diagrams (sequence and collaboration) and activity diagrams were used.  • Involved in the team for delivering the tasks and monitoring the team progress through JIRA.  Environment: JSF, Spring MVC, Hibernate ORM, JUnit, Mockito, Jacoco, Protractor, JBehave, JPA, Spring AOP, Oracle10g, MongoDB, WebPack, Log4j, JQuery, Eclipse, Maven, Jenkins, Linux, JBoss, CVS, UML, JIRA. Education Bachelor of Computer Science Technology in Computer Science Technology JNTU University 2009 Skills ECLIPSE, EJB, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, JBOSS, JNDI, jQuery, JSF, JSP, SERVLETS, VISUAL STUDIO, API, Cucumber, DOCKER, Git, GRADLE, JAVASCRIPT, ANGULAR.JS, Node, React, Angular, Nodejs, C# Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Ajax, PHP, XHTML, Bootstrap, XML 1.0, JQuery, JQuery UI, Log4j, Logback and JSON, Apache Camel, WebPack.  Languages Java (6/7/8), J2EE 1.5/1.4, SQL, PL/SQL.  J2EE Technologies Servlets, JDBC, JSP, JSF, JPA, JNDI, EJB.  Libraries Angular.JS, React.JS, Jquery, Node.JS and Express.js  Frameworks Hibernate ORM (3.x/4.x), Spring MVC (3.x/4.x), Spring (IOC, AOP), Spring Boot, Spring Security, Mockito and Cucumber.  Databases Oracle 10g/11g/12c, MS-SQL Server 2005, DB2, Mongo DB, DynamoDB, Couch DB, Cassandra and PostgreSQL.  IDE and Tools Eclipse, Visual Studio code, Atom, Ant (1.x), Maven (3.x), Gradle (3.x), Junit (4.11), JIRA and Rally.  Web/Application Servers Apache Tomcat, JBoss, Web Sphere (6.x), WebLogic (9.x).  Cloud Computing Amazon EC2, S3, SQS, Kinesis, SES, Dynamo DB, Amazon Elastic Load Balancing, AWS API, AWS Identity and access management,  Debugging Tools FindBug, Jacoco.  Project Build / Project Management Tools Grunt, Gulp, Web Pack, Jenkins, DOCKER, AWS.  Version Control Tools GIT, SVN, CVS and ClearCase.  Operating Systems Windows, Unix, Linux, and MacOS  Unit Test Framework Jasmine, Karma, Chai, Mocha, TestNG, Selenium and Protractor