Sr. FullStack Java Developer Sr. FullStack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. FullStack Java Developer - TransUnion Chicago, IL • 8+ Years of experience in design, development and implementation of software applications using Java, J2EE, technologies. Having good experience in the Information Technology Industry and also healthy participation in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including analysis, design, coding.  • Expertise experience in estimations, analysis, design, development, testing, maintenance, performance tuning and deployment of internet, e-commerce and client-server applications usingJava, Servlets, JSP, JavaBeans, JDBC, Spring, Hibernate, AJAX, JavaScript.• Experience in Pair Programming, Test Driven Development, Waterfall model and Agile methodologies like SCRUM.    • Experience with different IDE's like Eclipse, NetBeans, Intellij.  • Good knowledge and experience in Core and J2EE design patterns like Singleton, Abstract Factory, Builder, MVC2, Business Delegate, DAO etc.  • Expertise in various open source frameworks like Angular JS/ Angular 2, Node JS, Struts 2.0/1.2, Spring 2.5/3.0, Spring MVC, IoC, Web and ORM Technology like Hibernate 3.0, JPA, EJB3.0,IBatis, Mybatis, JQuery.  • Expertise in Distributed and Web environments, focused in JAVA Technologies - Java collections, Threads, J2SE, JDBC, Struts, Spring, Hibernate Framework.  • Expertise in Web-Development technologies like Servlets, JSP,JSTL, HTML5, JSON, JavaScript, CSS3, XML, XSL/XSLT, AJAX, JQuery.  • Good OOAD skills and data modeling using UML (Use-cases, Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams etc.). Used UML tools like STARUML.  • Extensive knowledge of XML-based standards and protocols (such as WSDL and SOAP), Service Oriented Architecture (SOA), development of XSD schemas and implementing both SOAP and REST web services.  • Extensively experienced in Middle Tier Development using Servlets, JSPs, and EJB(3.0).  • Experience in using DOM4J, JAXB, JAXP parsing and XML Bean to process, validate, parse and extract data from XML files.  • Experience in Continuous Integration tools such Jenkins and Bamboo.  • Good knowledge and experience with multiple Servers like IBM Web Sphere,IBM Web Sphere ESB (Enterprise Service Bus), Web Logic server, Apache Tomcat, JBoss.  • Extensive experience in working IDE tools like Eclipse, Net Beans, RAD, WID (Web Sphere Integration Designer).  • Experienced in PaymentechSDK, Groovy and Grails, Apache SOLR, Lucene, SOA and ADF 11g.  • RDBMS experience includes Oracle, SQL Server; database programming and connectivity using JDBC, ODBC, SQL, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, triggers, Queries etc.  • Experience in open source continuous integration tools - Hudson, Ivy and Artifactory.  • Experienced in generating logging by Log4j to identify the errors in production test environment and experienced in Ant, Maven and Gradle tools.  • Strong experience in UNIX and Shell scripting.  • Worked with various Application servers like JBOSS7, Webshpere, GlassFish3 and tomcat7 webserver.  • Experience in SVN and Perforce for version control and used maven for building.  • Good experience in working with team members from vendors and internal departments to coordinate activities across multiple applications.  • Ability to manage multiple project tasks and deadlines along with troubleshooting skills to facilitate effective and efficient resolution of problems. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. FullStack Java Developer TransUnion - Chicago, IL March 2017 to Present Project Description: TransUnion is leading financial software solutions provider providing integrated and intelligent information for businesses and professionals. The company operates through Financial, Risk, and Legal, Tax, Accounting, Intellectual Property and Science segments. Indirect Tax solutions platform provides simple automated approach for solving complex global tax challenges for sales tax, service tax and VAT. Its comprehensive suite of Indirect Tax software products and cloud-based services, supports sales tax, use tax, International indirect tax solution, ERP integration, TAX certification management and Indirect tax rates. Indirect Tax solutions developed using web (MVC) based and RESTFUL web services using spring framework. MVC was developed using JSP, HTML5, CSS, jQuery, AJAX.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Developed java modules implementing business rules and workflows using Spring MVC, IoC, Web Framework.  • Had experience in performance tuning J2EE apps, performance testing, analysis, and tuning.  • Developed Custom Tags to simplify the JSPcode. Designed UI screens using JSP, CSS, XML and HTML.Used JavaScript for client side validation.  • Developed the Product Builder UI screens using Angular-JS, Node JS, HTML5, CSS, Javascript and Bootstrap.  • Worked on development of Hibernate, including mapping files, configuration file and classes to interact with the database.  • Improved the maintainability of the project by implementing and improving Exception Handling and Collection APIs  • Involves in Sprint planning for the estimation of efforts for user stories and bugs.  • Performed code reviews and provided guidelines for best practices of software management, Coding Standards and Code Commenting for better understandability.  • Implemented UNIX utilities using shell script for data validation, manual job submission, restarting failed jobs, etc.  • Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud Micro services and develop Spring based application with very less configuration.  • Used Spring declarative transaction management and Spring Batch and scheduling for backend data processing.  • Developed REST services using Spring and Jersey based JAX-RS implementation.  • Secured the REST services using Spring Security and OAUTH framework and created documented REST services using Swagger and Jersey.  • Actively involved in deployment Application war files in Weblogic Application server.  • Migration of current search process from Database to Solr search engine.  • Designed and developed the REST based Microservices using the Spring Boot, Spring Data with JPA.  • Refactored the code for JVM Optimization and performance of application.  • Involved in Maven based build process and continuous integration of the project using Bamboo and Jenkins.  • Experienced in full-text search engine techniques like Lucene, Solr with Jetty Server.  • Implemented SOA architecture with Web Services using SOAP, WSDL and XML to integrate other legacy systems.  • Unit testing of developed product features using Junit and Mockito frameworks as part of development cycle.  • Wrote build and deployed scripts usingShelland ANT scripts and involved in performance analysis of the application and fixed problems/suggest solutions.  • Used SOAP based Web services and RESTful Web services for transferring data between applications.  • Knowledge of open source frameworks including Spring, Play and Lucene.  • Implemented continuous deployment system with Jenkins: CodeDeploy, Ops Works, and Packer for deployment of Java Applications.  • Designed and developed various Oracle database Simple and Complex Queries, PL/SQL procedures, Stored Procedures, Trigger and Functions.  • Developed UI using AngularJS, HTML, JavaScript and developed Business Logic and Interfacing components using Business Objects, XML, and JDBC.  • Worked as a part of AWSbuild team  • Created React.JS components using JSX, followed FLUX design pattern for unidirectional data flow  • Responsible to finish Jira Tickets assigned on time and update their status on regular basis.  • Used SVN for source code control.  • Develop detailed program design for application changes and/or major bugs.  • Involved in writing program documentation and technical specification documents.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring v3.x, Spring MVC, Hibernate v3.0, Oracle DB, Angular-JS, Node JS,  React JS, Redux, Bootstrap, CSS, HTML5, Javascript, jQuery, AJAX, GIT, IntelliJ, DbVisualizer, Tomcat, JBoss, SVN, Maven, JIRA, SOAP/Restful Web Services, Redhat Linux, Jenkins, WSDL, Spring Based MicroServices, Agile, cucumber, AWS. Sr. FullStack Java Developer Business Insurance and Specialty Insurance - Hartford, CT August 2016 to March 2017 Project Description: Second largest writer of U.S. commercial property casualty insurance and the third largest writer of U.S. personal insurance, Travelers is an insurance giant with operations in three segments viz. Personal Insurance, Business Insurance and Specialty Insurance. Quick Quote is a multipage web application which provides user with an insurance policy serving different line of business of Personal Insurance section of a company. Quick Quote was developed in Spring Boot framework with Apache Velocity, HTML5, LESS, Bootstrap.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, BootStrap, LESS, AJAX, Angular.js and JSON  • Worked in Agile Environment and participated in requirement gathering, analysis and design  • Developed various user interfaces components using Struts(MVC), JSP and HTML  • Developed application on Spring Boot framework by utilizing features like Spring Dependency Injection, Spring Security, Spring Web Flow with Spring MVC  • Used Spring's dependency injection for injecting entity manager and managed beans into spring beans  • Developed unit testing the applications using JUnit framework and developed logging and standard mechanism based on Log4j  • Implemented Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) by developing and consuming Restful Web Services based on JAX-RS. Coded JSP pages and used JavaScript for client side validations and to achieve other client-side event handling  • Designed the UI of the application using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Java Server Faces 2.0, JSP, JSTL, JavaScript, Angular 2, NodeJS and AJAX  • Developed persistence layer based on JPA framework for providing POJO persistence model for object- relational mapping  • Used Maven for building, deploying application, creating JPA based entity objects and compiling GWT application  • Used XML parser API's like JAXB API within the web service for marshaling/unmarshalling  • Used Business Process and Decision Management Design using JBoss    Environment: Spring 3.1, J2EE 1.8, Spring JDBC Templet, Spring Batch, AJAX, XML, CSS3, LESS, HTML 5, JavaScript, Apache Maven 3.2.5, JBoss EAP 6.3.3, BootStrap, JQuery, Angular 2, Node.js, JUnit, REST, Core Java, JSP's, Action Components, InteliJ IDEA Ultimate 2016, SVN, Rally Sr. FullStackJava Developer Express Scripts - St. Louis, MO October 2014 to July 2016 Project Description: Multifactor Authentication - Multifactor Authentication address critical security gap by delivering an integrated set of strong, risk based solution that effectively complement changes in JMIC's online Business environment.These changes provide the capability for Clients to access Client facing applications from anywhere at any time, over the internet.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Design, Development and Support phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Developed Custom Tags to simplify the JSP code. Designed UI screens using JSP, CSS, XML and HTML.Used JavaScript for client side validation.  • Developed single page web applications using AngularJS, NodeJSand for client side scripting and synchronizing java applications.  • Designed the user interface of the application using HTML5, CSS3, Java Server Faces 2.0 (JSF 2.0), JSP, JSTL, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node JS, and AJAX. Coded in AngularJS MVC Framework to make single page app (spa) and complex price configurations pages.  • Designed the front-end screens using AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap and Spring Boot.  • Experienced with AngularJS directives ng-app, ng-init, ng-model for initialization of AngularJS application data.  • Involved in developing user interface with the help of React JS  • Implemented AngularJS Expressions, Directives, Controllers, filters and created Angular JS service layer.  • Built NodeJSnpm packages/libraries to support current and future Node Development.  • Used Rational Rose for model driven development and UML modeling.  • Participated in coding Spring AOP components for the Transactional Model to handle many requests. Involved in writing JSP and Servlet components.  • Created both producer and consumer web service components using REST and implemented RESTful web services.  • Actively involved in designing and implementing the application using various design patterns such as Singleton, DAO, Front Controller, Service Locator, Business Delegate, Façade and Data Access Object.  • Used Java Message Service (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information such as loan status report.  • Developed Web services for sending and getting data from different applications using RESTmessages, such as Loan Applications, to transfer data from Branch Server to Head Office Server, then used SAXand DOM XML parsers for data retrieval.  • Responsible for managing AWS  • Involved in configuring JNDI properties and used Data Source objects for database communication.  • Involved in the JMS Connection Pool and the implementation of publish and subscribe using Spring JMS.  • Used Hibernate, object/relational-mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with SQL-based schema.  • Worked on Agile, SCRUM development methodology and built the application with Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Extensively performed Database testing using Selenium. Generated Production DB reports using SQL queries.  • Developing test scripts with Cucumber and developed required Selenium support code in JAVA for Cucumber.  • Performed debugging of the application using Log4J and Gradle is used as a build tool.  • Used JUnit framework for unit testing and CVSversion control for implementing the application.    Environment: Core Java 1.7, Spring- 3 DI, AOP, JSP, HTML, AngularJS, Redux, JUnit, CSS, XML, JavaScript, CVS, ANT, Hibernate, Tiles, Oracle, Log4J, Selenium, Cucumber, Gradle, Hudson, JMS, TDD, REST, WebSphere and Eclipse, AWS. Java/J2EE Developer Farmers Insurance - Sacramento, CA April 2013 to September 2014 Project Description: Multicar Insurance is a web based project designed and developed for insurance agents. The agents will issue policy through this application for their customers. Eligibility of the customers is decided based on the past records which are automatically populated by the program. If the customer is an existing customer, then the existing rules apply. If the customer is a new customer, then future business rules will apply. Agents can check the status of their customers and their current policy rules. Once policy number is auto generated, then the policy details are issued to the customer.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented Different Design patterns like singleton, factory and J2EE design patterns like Business delegate, session facade, Value object and DAO design patterns.  • Used Spring Framework's IOC Dependency Injection to inject Service Object using Service Locator Design Pattern into Action Classes.  • Used Struts tag libraries in the JSP pages.  • Developed a controller Servlet that dispatches request to appropriate Action Classes.  • Developed the application under J2EE Architecture using Spring, Struts, Hibernate, Servlets, Web logic and JSP.  • Used Java Persistence API (JPA) and Hibernate for performing the Database Transactions.  • Used join point and advice Spring AOP modules for cross cutting concerns and IOC for dependency injection.  • Designed extensive additions to existing Java Web Application utilizing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) techniques.  • Extensively worked on Spring Bean wiring, Spring DAO and Spring AOP modules.  • Designed Graphical User Interface (GUI) for various WebPages using AJAX, HTML, CSS, JSF, JQuery and JavaScript.  • Implemented SOA architecture with web services using SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and XML.  • Identified and resolved programming issues, Servlets and EJB s performance tuning opportunities.  • Used JMS API for asynchronous communication by putting the messages in the Message queue.  • Consumed Web Services (WSDL, SOAP, UDDI) from third party for authorizing payments to/from customers.  • Involved in Developing Web Application with Full Software Development life Cycle (SDLC) from Design to Deployment using agile methodologies.  • Created detail design documents which has the UML Design diagrams, table information, object model etc which are required for the developer.  • Created detail design documents which has the UML Design diagrams, table information, object model etc which are required for the developer.  • MVC architecture is implemented by struts framework.  • Exposed Survey API to other applications in DOE using Apache Axis2.  • Page design and development are done using Oracle BPM.  • Involved in implementing JQuery for providing interactive user interfaces.  • Written Test cases using JUnit to validate the application flows in different scenarios in the standalone application.    Environment: Core Java 1.7, Spring- 4 DI, Data, Transaction management, Servlets, EJB, Batch, JSF, Icefaces, Http Client, Tomcat, SOAP, Maven, Oracle, JMS, Agile-Scrum, Jenkins, JUnit, SVN, JMS, Tomcat and Eclipse. Java/J2EE Developer Black Board IncWashington January 2011 to March 2012 Project Description: Blackboard Inc. is an educational technology company with corporate headquarters in Washington, D.C.. It is known for its Blackboard Learn learning management system.The firm provides education, mobile, communication, and commerce software and related services to clients including education providers, corporations and government organizations. The software consists of seven platforms called Learn, Transact, Engage, Connect, Mobile, Collaborate and Analytics that are offered as bundled software. As of January 2014, its software and services are used by approximately 17,000 Schools and organizations in 100 countries.Seventy-five percent of US colleges and universities and more than half of K-12 districts in the United States use its products and services.    Responsibilities:  • Working on application architecture and re-design of different parts of the application.  • Working with Requirement leads and Project managers to translate business Requirements into technical specifications.  • Developed database persistence layer components for mapping an object-oriented domain model to the relational database using ORM framework such as Spring JDBC Support, Hibernate and JPA.  • Worked in Agile mode and interacted closely with the product owner and business team.  • Setup a new clear case project and ANT scripts and owned the deploy process.  • Built Single page application (SOA) using AngularJS as per the requirement.  • Optimize the cost of application development and maintenance by using economies of scale under a SLA governed process.  • Worked with Apache Lucene and SOLR for searching the person and business details.  • Design and development of the BPM for various synchronous and asynchronous processes and to implement the workflow of the applications  • Using SpringBoot which is radically faster in building MicroServices and develop Spring based application with very less configuration.  • Written Stored Procedures, functions, SQL queries and backend programming using Oracle, SQL.  • Developed presentation tier web components using JSF framework and deployed the application in web server.  • Expertise in application development using JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JNDI, spring, Hibernate, Ibatis, Mybatis, JSF, EJB, XML, Web Services- SOAP, WSDL.  • Implemented MVC architecture using JSF framework using JSPs as GUI development and DB Modeling using NOSQL and Oracle 10g.  • Performed client side validations using JavaScript and Struts validation framework.  • Worked and supported ecommerce business models such as on B2C, B2B, and B2B2C.  • Performing Impact Analysis, Design, and Estimations for the enhancements to the applications.  • Impact Analysis, Design, and Estimations for the enhancements to the applications.  • Interacted with the business users to gather requirements and provided high-level design with Sequential and State-chart diagrams.  • Built workflow based applications using JBPM workflow engine and designed workflow in JBPM editor, use provided api's in JBPM engine to run business functions.  • Developed business processes/work flow and rules using JBoss BPM/Rules  • Implemented various J2EE design patterns like DAO pattern, Business Delegate, Value Object.  • Developed Business components and Services using EJB3.0, JPA and JAX-WS and deployed them in Business tier application server.  • Developed various Land registry office user interfaces, Model Beans and DAO using JSF Framework.  • Have written Unit Test Cases and Integration Test Cases using Junit framework.    Environment: Core Java, J2EE JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Collections, Generics, JUnit, Solr, Lucene, Struts, Spring, JBPM, Hibernate, Microservices, Eclipse, WebLogicApplication Server 5.0, UML, SQL, NOSQL, Oracle 10g, Agile, Maven, SVN, ClearQuest.. Java Developer MACTECH IT SOLUTIONS INDIA December 2009 to November 2010 Responsibilities:  • Used agile methodology for developing the application.  • Developed using new features of Java 1.5 like Annotations, Generics, enhanced for loop and Enums.  • Developed various generic JavaScript functions used for validations.  • Developed screens using JSP, JavaScript, HTML and CSS.  • Developed Web Services clients to consume those Web Services as well other enterprise wide Web Services.  • Created DDL and DML SQL scripts for creation of database objects.  • Created logical and physical data models putting to practice, concepts of normalization and RDBMS.  • Created and injected Spring services, Spring controllers and DAOs to achieve dependencyinjectionand to wire objects of business classes.  • Used Core JavaDesign Patterns like Singleton, Factory, MVC, Intercepting Filter, Front Controller, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Session Facade and DAO.  • Designed and implemented Struts (MVC Paradigm) components such as Action Mapping, Action class, Dispatch action class, Action Form bean, and a form set for validation and used JavaBeans to return dynamic information.  • Used Spring Inheritance to develop beans from already developed parent beans.  • Defined MultiAction, Abstract Wizard Form and Simple Form Controllers using Spring MVC framework providing very clean division between controllers, flexibility with the use of interfaces and providing thinweb layer over business layer.  • Used JSF framework in developing user interfaces using JSF UI Components.  • Worked in all the modules of the application which involved front-end presentation logic developed using Tiles, JSP, JSTL and java script, XML Business objects developed using POJOs and data access layer using Hibernate.  • Involved in configuring Hibernate mapping files and POJO objects.  • Involved in writing Thread Safe blocks for multithread access to make valid transactions.  • Exposed the Web Services to the client applications by sharing the WSDL's.  • Database development required creation of new tables, PL/SQL stored procedures, functions, views, indexes and constraints, triggers and required SQL tuning to reduce the response time in the application.    Environment: Spring, Hibernate, PL/SQL, HTML, CSS, JSP, JavaScript, POJO, DAO, MVC, JST, XML, JSF, Java 1.5, JavaBeans, Singleton, Intercepting Filter. Education Bachelor's of Engineering in Electronics Engineering Nagpur University - Nagpur, Maharashtra 2008 Skills JAVA (6 years), JAVASCRIPT (6 years), JSP (6 years), XML (6 years), JUNIT (5 years), Java, J2EE, Spring v3.x, Spring MVC, Hibernate v3.0, Oracle DB, Angular-JS, Node JS, React JS, Redux,Bootstrap, CSS, HTML5, Javascript, jQuery, AJAX, GIT, IntelliJ,DbVisualizer, Tomcat, JBoss, SVN, Maven, JIRA, SOAP/Restful Web Services, Redhat Linux, Jenkins, WSDL, Spring Based MicroServices, Agile, cucumber, AWS. Additional Information SKILLS    Java (8 years), JavaScript (8 years), JSP (8 years), JUnit (7 years), XML (8 years)    Operating Systems: Windows, UNIX, Solaris, Linux SCM: CVS, Subversion, ClearCase, GIT  Tools/Utilities: Log4j, Ant, JUnit, SOAP-Ui, Caliber, Maven, Gradle, Jenkins, Karma-Jasmine Methodologies: Agile (Scrum, TDD), Waterfall