Sr. Java,J2EE Developer Sr.<span class="hl">Java</span>,J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java,J2EE Developer - TransReach Talent East Brunswick, NJ • Around 6+ Years of IT professional experience with full project lifecycle development in Java and Web technologies of software applications.  • Experience in performing development of applications for the information technology sectors of the businesses in Healthcare, Communications & Networking, Banking and Financial, e-commerce.  • Experience in Design and Development of multi-tier enterprise applications using Java, J2EE, and spring, Servlets, JSP, JSF, Hibernate, JDBC, Java Beans and Web Services.  • Experience in designing various application modules for the best implementation of the Object-Oriented concepts and easy implementation of the Application.  • Experience in implementing the micro services in Web Applications using the frameworks such as Spring Boot development for Java.  • Experienced in Service Oriented Architecture and REST Architecture, creating services and Restful API's.  • Experienced in writing Complex queries, Stored Procedures, functions, Packages, Tables, Views and Triggers using major Databases Oracle DB2 and MySQL.  • Experienced in spring framework and implementation of the modules IOC, AOP, DAO, Context, ORM, and WEB MVC.  • Experienced in Hibernate Framework for the Object Relational Mapping therefore simplifying the Data creation, Data manipulation and Data Access.  • Experience in implementing full text search, Synonym, Filters in Elastic-search engine.  • Experience in configuring Persistent stores, JMS servers, system modules, sub deployments, connection factories, topics, and queues for JMS Messaging.  • Experienced in forming Struts tag library and Struts Tiles Framework for implementing the web interfaces and Struts Validator Framework using MVC architecture.  • Experienced in Angular JS framework for building web-apps and is highly efficient in integrating with Restful services.  • Experience in utilizing open-source frameworks such as AngularJS, NodeJS, Struts, spring, Hibernate, JSF and jQuery.  • Experience developing SOAP and REST web services in Java using JERSEY and APACHE CXF.  • Design, develop and test ESB infrastructure on the JBOSS ESB platform.  • Experience in creating high responsive web application using Bootstrap framework.  • Experience of developing data models using Hibernate POJO's and configuring Hibernate persistence layer.  • Experience in designing and developing Web based Applications using J2EE technologies like Java, Spring, Hibernate, Servlets, Jsp, Java beans, HTML, Java Script, EJB, JNDI, CSS, JDBC, XML, Struts, AJAX, Junit and web Services.  • Experienced in web development using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery and AngularJS technologies.  • Experienced in developing MVC framework-based websites using spring and struts.  • Expertise in using version control tools such as SVN, CVS, and GIT.  • Quick learner of business processes with excellent analytical, trouble shooting and problem-solving skills.  • Experience in writing ANT, Maven build scripts, providing logging facility using Log4j and Writing JUnit test cases.  • Test Driven Programmer with thorough knowledge in Unit testing with JUnit, Mockito and using SoapUI, Postman for Web Service testing, performance testing with J-Meter and automated testing with Test Driven Development (TDD) in Extreme Programming model.  • Extensively worked on Web-services applications using SOAP UI tool, to create a Web Service Test from SOAP request and validate the response against the database.  • Experience in preparing Test plan document to suit agile timelines.  • Experienced in Selenium Data-Driven Framework with core Java programming and Junit/TestNG annotations.  • Development of database interaction code to JDBC API making extensive use of SQL Query Statements and advanced prepared statement.  • Involved in the implementation and pipelining the project on to the Cloud implementation through Pivotal Cloud foundry and AWS platform services.  • Good experience with Operating Systems like Windows, LINUX, and UNIX.  • Expert knowledge of data structures, computer logic and flow-charting, program design methods and techniques, database vendor versions, compiler versions • Excellent critical and creative problem-solving ability and analytical thinking with quick learning, interpersonal and client interfacing skills. Senior Java Developer. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java,J2EE Developer TransReach Talent - East Brunswick, NJ March 2018 to Present Description: At TransReach, a successful search is a partnership between a motivated and involved client, and experienced recruitment executives. We begin by listening, apply the knowledge we've gained to begin the research process, extract potential candidates, guide the interview process and then make sure the final negotiations run as smoothly as possible.    Responsibilities: • Actively involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as Design, Analysis, Development and Testing.  • Extensively used Core Java such as Exceptions, Multithreading, Data Structures and Collections in this project along with Encapsulation, Abstraction, Java 8 new features like Lambdas, Method References.  • Designed and developed Micro Services business components and Restful service endpoints using Spring Boot.  • Implemented RESTful and SOAP based web services using JAX-RS and JAX-WS respectively.  • Implemented RESTful Web Services to retrieve data from client side using Micro Services architecture.  • Implemented exception handling in Java Spring Boot for REST API, by making use of Exception Handler and Controller Advice annotations.  • Developed Micro Service to provide RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Implemented the authentication, authorization, and access-control features by using Spring Security.  • Developed Micro-Services based architecture to enable the application to be deployed on AWS Cloud.  • Responsible for creating an instance on Amazon EC2 (AWS) and deployed the application on it.  • Used groovy and spring boot to collecting the data from users and packaged the data as JSON distributed to applications.  • Worked on AWS cloud services to deploy static websites and dynamic Web Apps on EC2 using Elastic Beanstalk and Elastic Container Service-Docker.  • Involved in implementing DAO pattern for database connectivity with Hibernate.  • Involved in writing and implementing SQL queries at the DAO layer using SQL and HQL.  • Designed services to store and retrieve user data using MongoDB database and communicated with remote servers using REST enabled Web Services on Jersey framework.  • Created Hibernate Named Queries in Hibernate mapping files and implemented them at DAO layer.  • Used Hibernate for Persistence layer. DAO wrapped all the Hibernate functions.  • Worked with AngularJS router for developing Single Page Applications SPAs.  • Created Custom Directives in AngularJS, making use of Modules and Filters objects according to the application requirement.  • Implemented configured and customized JIRA issue tracking software with agile plug-in across all company functions.  • Used Git to maintain the version of the files and took the responsibility to do the code merges from branch to trunk and creating new branch when new feature implementation starts.  • Used JUnit and Mockito framework for writing unit test cases in Test Driven Development.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, AJAX, Responsive Web Design, Angular JS, JSON, Dreamweaver, JavaScript, JSP, Bootstrap, Rest/SOAP, Spring Boot, Hibernate, J2EE. Java Developer Apptium - Herndon, VA May 2017 to February 2018 Responsibilities: • Involved in Agile software development lifecycle which involves designing, coding, testing, debugging and support.  • Worked on AngularJS directives and controllers for designing the web application and used its two-way data binding to achieve the feedback functionality from the user.  • Used AngularJS filters for searching, sorting, and pagination and used custom filters.  • Created AngularJS Routing to connect different controller to the view which allows the single-page application.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON, XML and jQuery.  • Worked with HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript for developing user interface.  • Created optimized graphic websites and application interfaces using HTML, CSS and jQuery UI framework.  • Used Bootstrap and Angular UI Bootstrap for creating rich, Responsive UI Screens for varying screen sizes and devices.  • Created proof-of-concept using responsive web design, Node JS, Angular JS, HTML5 and CSS3.  • Worked with QA team on daily basis in fixing the reported bugs and checking cross platform compatibility.  • Worked on re-factoring existing application code (built in AngularJS).  • Developed Web Services using Restful with Spring MVC and developed DTDs, XSD schemas for XML (parsing, processing, and design) to communicate with Active Directory application using Restful API.  • Involved in configuring JDBC connection pooling to access the database server.  • Designed and developed JSP pages using Spring MVC framework and created Spring MVC components like Dispatch servlets, configure Request mapping annotation controllers, view resolver components.  • Worked on creating JSPs, Form Beans and Action classes and configured in Struts-Config.xml • Designed Java Components and integrated using Spring framework for Hibernate Object/Relational persistence mechanism.  • Established efficient exception handling and logging using Spring AOP.  • Developed the service layer that acts a bridge between the presentation layer and data access layer, with spring framework.  • Involved in Analysis, design and coding on Java and J2EE Environment.  • Used Maven as build tool and Jenkins for continuous integration development.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, Node JS, Express JS, Bootstrap, IntelliJ IDEA and Agile/Scrum, JDK, J2EE. Java Developer Zimmer Holdings - Indianapolis, IN November 2015 to April 2017 Responsibilities: • Design and develop the adapter layer to establish communication between application server and the complex legacy mainframe using socket programming, applying various design patterns, spring, Multithreading.  • Written tested, idiomatic, and documented AngularJS, HTML5 and CSS3.  • Validated if existing web services can be reusable to support new UI functionality and created Spring Boot services for processing scheduled or one time or stored payment functionalities.  • Involved in designing Spring MVC application and Hibernate to design module structure • Used Spring Boot at back-end which helps to develop application with ease • Developed RESTful services in Java Spring Boot and IIB, to integrate with LDAP for user registration, login and reset/change password functionalities.  • Working with IBM Data Power devices to secure and integrate the web services.  • Design and development of the key component frameworks based on Hibernate and Java/J2ee to standardize the development across the server-side layers.  • Involved in requirement analysis and creation of Functional and Technical Design Documents • Developed SOAP based web services using SOAP and HTTP Nodes.  • Developed XML Firewalls and Web Service Proxy along with the required objects.  • Worked with IBM DataPower devices to secure and integrate the web services.  • Configured multi-protocol gate way (MPGW), WS Proxy, XML Firewall and AAA Services on Data power • Good experience in using Data Power security features. Expertise in creating SSL Proxy (Forward/ Reverse/Tow- Way) • Profiles using Crypto Objects to connect with the web management interfaces.  • Developed XSLT and used XML Transformation node to transform XML messages.  • Worked with Docker container builds to host Java Spring Boot and IIB projects, implementation of security, also worked with Docker Gray log for logging and Mail Hog for testing out going emails in TEST environment as well as Spring Boot consul.  • Implemented exception handling in Java Spring Boot for REST API, by making use of Exception Handler and Controller Advice annotations.  • Developing light weight business component using Spring Framework, Spring Web MVC, using features like IOC, Aspects, Remoting and configuring application context for spring bean factory.  • Worked on integrating with Oracle/DB2/Microsoft SQL server, and written stored procedures for storing or retrieving web user/customer details into the database.  • Implemented maps using messaging protocols XML/SOAP, MQ-Series, direct Oracle connectivity, http connectivity, DB2 database connectivity.  • Developed web component using Hibernate, Spring MVC, and Spring Web Flow.  • Developing Multiprotocol gateway and Web Service Proxy objects along with required objects.  • Wrote JUnit and used power mocks for unit testing the application code base.  • Implementing Web services using SOAP, REST and XML/HTTP technologies to expose as well as consume numerous services within CenturyLink Inventories and Systems.    Environment: Java, spring, Hibernate, J2EE, JSP, JSTL, jQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap, Oracle, Web Logic, GIT, J2EE, Oracle, XML, Rest and SOAP web service. Java Developer Fortira Inc - Princeton, NJ February 2014 to October 2015 Description: Fortira believes in providing our clients with the latest in information-driven technologies. And the first step in that is to audit your current technology and then point out the bottlenecks that could be hampering your business.    Responsibilities: • Implemented MVC architecture using Spring Framework.  • Used JNDI as part of service locator to locate the Factory objects, Data Source Objects and other service factories.  • Involved in design, development and implementation phases of SDLC • Implemented the design patterns DAO, Service Locator and Business Delegate.  • Developed complete Web tier of the application using Struts Framework.  • Designed web pages using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Involved in client-side form validations using JavaScript.  • Developed Struts Action classes and interceptors as part of the Struts Framework.  • Developed the Front end of the application using JSP and Struts tags.  • Created Web.xml, Struts-config.xml, Validation.xml files to integrate all the components in the Struts framework.  • Worked with XML, XSD, XSLT for building up and transforming the xml files • Performed unit testing by writing test cases using JUnit.  • Used on SAX parser to read XML files • Integrated part of web layer of the application based on Struts into Spring using ContextLoaderPlugin while integration of the web layer into spring framework.  • Designed the UML class diagrams and sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Developed stored procedures and Triggers using PL/SQL to access the database.  • Incorporated new methods into existing service business components • Developed ANT scripts that checkout code from CVS repository and build EAR files • Involved in handling Hibernate as part of DB connectivity and persistence as ORM tool.  • Used Spring Framework to integrate with Hibernate using Hibernate Template.  • Involved in modifying Hibernate configuration file for mapping resources.  • Created Connection Pools in WebSphere and configured as needed.  • Used MyEclipse IDE for code development along with CVS for managing the code.    Environment: Jdk1.6, Spring3.0, Hibernate, Eclipse 3.2, Web Sphere 7.0, Oracle 10g, Maven and UNIX. Java Developer CyberCoders - Irvine, CA August 2012 to January 2014 Description: CyberCoders, a division of On Assignment, is a recruiting firm. CyberCoders claims to place professionals in all types of positions for all industries including information technology, engineering  Responsibilities: • Implemented OO Design Concepts, Exception Handling, Identifying and Fixing Potential Memory, Performance, and Transactional issues throughout the application.  • Responsible for developing the reports design and format using J-Report Designer from the requirements specifications involving Core Java, J2EE, JSP, JSTL, Servlets, Struts, UML and XML.  • Provided mock-ups of all the different types of reports in a specified format designed by VISA using Dreamweaver.  • Used PDF Renderer Tool to generate customer in-voice in the form of PDF format.  • Generated the queries related to each one of the different reports using DB2 and AQT DB Client Tool and also developed the enterprise beans for each one of the reports.  • Created DB2 Queries for various database transactions using Stored Procedures.  • Modified the UI design of the Web Application according to the report parameters.  • Designed and Implemented MVC architecture using Struts Framework.  • Developed Action Classes and Handlers and route the request to the JSP.  • Used JSP, JavaScript, HTML5, and CSS3 for manipulating, validating, customizing error messages to the User Interface.  • Extensively used JSP in the view of MVC architecture.  • Involved in Unit Testing, Sanity Testing and Integration testing of all the reports and report parameters from WebSphere Enterprise Server and the Web Application.  • Strong implementations of data persistency using Hibernate and Spring Framework.  • Used Web Services - WSDL and SOAP for getting credit card information from third party.  • Used ANT to write build scripts for several components involved in the project.  • Utilized CVS to check in and checkout project modules and co-ordinate with other team developers.  • Worked on ClearQuest for maintaining project status, identify defects and resolve issues in development.  • Bug fixing, functional testing, production support, and maintenance through JIRA.  • Helped with writing software specifications based on the requirement and functional design.    Environment: JDK 1.5, JSP 2.1, Servlets, Struts 1.1, JDBC 4.0, EJB, JMS, Spring2.0, Hibernate 3.0, AJAX, Oracle 9i, XML, XSLT, HTML4, CSS, WebLogic 8.0, UML, Eclipse 3.2, PL/SQL, Junit. Education Bachelor's Skills database (6 years), Java (6 years), JSP (6 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (6 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming languages Java, C, C++, Ruby, Groovy, C#.  Web technologies HTML5, CSS3, Angular JS, Ember JS, Node JS, LESS, SASS, Bootstrap, jQuery.  Frameworks Spring, Spring-Boot, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Struts.  Java Technologies EJB, Servlets, JSP  Web services REST and SOA services.  Testing Tools J-Unit, Jmeter, UAT, Mockito, TestNG, SOAP-UI.  Cloud platforms. PCF, AWS.  Operating Systems. Windows, Unix, Linux.  Database systems Oracle, MySQL, MongoDB, PostgreSQL, DynamoDB.  Web Servers Apache Tomcat, Web Sphere, J-Boss, Openfire  Version Control Tools SVN, CVS, GIT, Bitbucket.  Other Tools JIRA, MS-Office, Google Sheets, Google Analytics, APIGEE, ANT, Maven, JMS, MQ.