Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - ServiceLink, Moon Township, PA Township of Moon, PA • Having 7+ years of experience in all the technical phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Requirement Analysis, Design, Implementation and Testing in both Web based and Enterprise applications with emphasis on Object Oriented, Java/J2EE and Client Server technologies.  • Experience in developing the application with Agile Methodology, Waterfall Methodology and Test-Driven Development.  • Experience in Front-End UI technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, JSON, Ajax, AngularJS,NodeJS, Bootstrap, Tag Libraries, JSTL.  • Good working knowledge with Java 1.8 features like stream, Lambda expressions and functional interfaces etc.  • Hands on Experience in developing web applications by using Spring framework modules like Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Batch and Spring Data.  • Expertise in developing data models using Hibernate Object relational mapping (ORM) frame work and used Hibernate Annotations to reduce time at the configuration level  • Having experience with Cloud Computing environment like Pivotal Cloud Foundry, Amazon Web Services (AWS), Docker Containers.  • Handled operations and maintenance support for AWS cloud resources which includes launching, maintaining and troubleshooting EC2 instances, S3 buckets, Auto Scaling, Dynamo DB, AWS IAM, Elastic Load Balancers (ELB) and Relational Database Services (RDS).  • Proficient in developing J2EE enterprise applications in Service Oriented Architecture and Micro Service Architecture.  • Expert in Core Java with strong understanding of Garbage Collector, Collections, Multithreading, Event handling, Exception handling and Generics.  • Expertise in J2EE Technology- Servlets, Struts,Spring, JDBC, JTA, JPA, Hibernate and JMS.  • Experience with distinctive design patterns like Singleton, Factory, Prototype, Business Delegate, Session Facade, Service locator, Visitor, Observer, Decorator, Front Controller, DAO and MVC.  • Worked with design and development of robust and highly scalable Web Service platforms and API's based on REST and SOAP for enterprise applications using AXIS,WSDL, UDDI, XML, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, JAXB, JAX-RPC technologiesand Jersey frameworks.  • Expertise in XML technologies such as XSL, XSLT, XML schemas, XPath, XForms, XSL-FO and parsers  • like SAX, DOM  • Expertise in back-end/server-side java technologies such as: Web services, Java persistence API (JPA), Java Messaging Service (JMS), Java Database Connectivity (JDBC) and Java Naming and Directory Interface (JNDI).  • Experienced in building Web Services for Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  • Good Understanding in databases such as Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server, NoSQL, Mongo DB and IBM DB2 databases to manage tables, views, indexes, sequences, stored procedures, functions, triggers and packages  • Experience in JMS over messaging to exchange the information in more reliable and asynchronously for enterprise applications using Active MQ and Rabbit MQ.  • Proficient with build automation tools like Gradle, Maven and Ant for builds and deployments to different environments.  • Experience on different IDEs such as Eclipse, RAD, Spring Tool Suite, IntelliJ and deployment using Application Servers like Apache Tomcat, BEA WebLogic, Web Sphere, Glassfish, Camel and JBOSS  • Experience with JUnit, Mockito, Log4j in developing test cases and determining application functionality.  • Experience on UNIX/LINUX Shell Scripting and Deployment of Applications in Server.  • Decent Experience in using code repository tools GIT, Tortoise SVN, and Visual Source Safe.  • Strong communication and analytical skills and a demonstrated ability to handle multiple tasks as well as work independently or in a team. Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer ServiceLink, Moon Township, PA June 2018 to Present ServiceLink is the premier national mortgage services company that has been providing loan transaction services to the mortgage industry for more than 47 years. Service Link delivers home valuation, title and closing, and flood services to mortgage originators; end-to-end subservicing to mortgage servicers; and default valuation, default and loss mitigation title and closing, field services and liquidation solutions that support servicer loss mitigation efforts and the foreclosure process.    Responsibilities:  • Extensively involved in business requirements gathering and technical and functional walk-through meetings  • Used HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS and JSON and bootstrap for developing responsive single page applications  • Developed single page responsive design application using Angular JS.  • Developed microservices using Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Spring AOP, Dependency Injection, Spring Security, and JPA.  • Used and implemented Angular JS Directives, Filters, Controllers, Services and Expressions for developing client-side widgets, validations and client-side business logic using java script  • Developed reusable custom Directives, Services for Angular JS  • Implemented Unit test cases on filters, Directives, Services and other Angular components  • Used Bootstrap for responsive themes and other Bootstrap CSS components  • Followed RIA best practices while design and developing the Angular components and services  • Developed and configured page routing and called Rest service using $http service components  • Followed best practices and principles while designing single page Angular JS application  • Configured and used different Angular modules in the application to achieve rich, responsive application.  • Used Microservices to communicate using synchronous protocols HTTP and REST.  • Implementing or exposing the Microservices based on RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Have extensive debugging and bug and issues fixing experience in Angular JS application  • Implemented jQuery and AJAX calls to retrieve JSON data from the data base on the fly via Rest API  • Extensively used and implemented Interfaces, OOP concepts, Collections, Exceptional Handling, JVM, Garbage collections, Multi-threading, Compositions and aggregations  • Designed and developed Micro Services architectures and components in the applications  • Implemented the application modules using Spring Boot, Spring Core, Spring Security, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring JDBC, Spring Batch in order to develop the application  • Implemented Spring Services and business operations using Dependency Injection  • Used Spring JDBC to perform data base activities and transactions management  • Involved in the configuration of Spring Framework modules  • Used different design patterns for building scalable, robust application modules  • Used JMS/MQ for developing messaging services to interact with different application modules  • Implemented Web Services using SOAP, WSDL and JAX-RS API  • Implemented Restful web services to perform simple business operations  • Used Oracle and MongoDB/No SQL Server as backend data base systems  • Designed and created data base tables, constraints as per the application requirements  • Implemented SQL injection security checks, html sanitization and other security mechanisms  • Followed Agile development methodology while developing the application  • Updated Billing and usage pages in my Verizon application using spring, microservices and AngularJs.  • Worked in AWS Cloud environment and worked on EC2, S3, Cloud Watch, Elastic Beanstalk  • Designed and implemented IAM, RDS, EC2, S3, LBS, Auto scaling, Load balancers in AWS  • Implemented auto deployment scripts, instance creation and destroy scripts and CICD pipeline in AWS  • Used Jenkin jobs for building and deploying(CI/CD) the application into app server  • Involved in DevOps to configure Maven, GitHub, Docker and AWS to build and deploy pipeline in Jenkins.    Environment: Java 8, J2ee, JSP, Servlets, HTML5, AJAX, JQuery, Angular JS, Grunt, NPM, Node.js, JSON, Bootstrap, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services, Microservices, SQL Developer, Oracle, COBOL, CICS, UML,JUnit, Protractor, Cucumber, Mockito, JMeter, JIRA, Jenkins, Log4j, Sonar, Crucible, Cloud, AWS (Amazon Web Services). Full Stack Developer Whole Foods - Austin, TX October 2017 to June 2018 Whole Foods online website and internal web applications to order products from the different system. It has the capability to generate reference numbers which can then be pervasively exchanged across systems, ISGM Migration project maintains the customer details and updates promotional details to the customers.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modeling, analysis, design, development and testing.  • Configured and Implemented Spring AOP for transaction management, Spring MVC Framework, Spring Boot, logging and performance tracking.  • Implemented Restful web services using JAX-RS annotations, Jersey as provider and implemented security using OAUTH.  • Using spring security framework for user level authentication with REST API for service layer Development.  • Implemented the application using Spring Boot Framework and handled the security using spring security.  • Used Spring DAO (JDBC Template) in the persistence layer for GPS, backend being Oracle10g.  • Implementing or exposing the Micro services based on RESTful API utilizing Spring Bootwith Spring MVC.  • Developed Cloud Compatible Micro Services using Spring Boot, java and related web technologies  • Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud Micro Services and develop spring-based application with very less configuration.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection and used Apache Camel to integratespring framework.  • Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing Spring Inversion of Control (IOC) andHibernate.  • Implemented Netflix-Eureka from Spring Cloud for dynamic Microservices registry and discovery and Netflix-Archaius property framework, for dynamic/runtime changes in the configuration properties.  • Experienced with AWS services to smoothly manage application in the cloud and creating or modifying the instances.  • Implemented based Cloud Architecture on AWS Platform.  • Developed AWS Lambdas that run in the AWS environment.  • Used NoSQL databases like AWS Dynamo dB and S3 for data persistence.  • Developed reusable and interoperable Web service modules based on SOA architecture usingRESTful.  • Responsible for creating tables in development schema and Wrote oracle packages, procedures and functions in PL/SQL.  • Designed and developed functionality to get JSON document from MongoDB document store and send it to client using RESTful web service.  • Used Rabbit MQ as Java Messaging Service for producing and consuming data between applications.  • Created test cases for DAO Layer and service layer using JUNIT.  • Hibernate outline work is utilized as a part of perseverance layer for mapping an article situated area model to a social database  • Created reusable templates using Angular directives and worked with NPM package manager tools (NodeJS).  • Defined the Hibernate configuration file, hibernate mapping files and created classes to persist the data into Oracle.    Environment: Java 1.8, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular JS, Node JS, jQuery, AJAX, JSP, JSF, JSTL, Spring4, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring Boot, Spring Security, Spring Cloud, Hibernate, SOAP, WSDL, RESTful, Jersey, IBM DB2, JMS, Rabbit MQ, Apache Camel, MongoDB, AWS, Unix, Docker, Log4j, Maven, JIRA, GIT, STS. Java/J2EE Developer Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance - Milwaukee, WI January 2016 to September 2017 Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance is a leading global provider of insurance, annuities and employee benefit programs. Through its subsidiaries and affiliates, Northwestern mutual life insurance holds leading market. SSUI & CERT SYSTEM offer a full range of insurance and other financial product service details.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, specification, design, implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) based on the functional requirements.  • Application is implemented using agile methodology where there is a daily SCRUM meeting to understand the status and resolve any issues.  • Upgraded existing UI with HTML, CSS, JQuery,Bootstrap and interaction.  • Implemented the application using Spring IOC, Spring MVC Framework, Spring AOP, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, and handled the security using Spring Security.  • Designed and developed the End Points (Controllers), Business Layer, DAO Layer using Hibernate/JDBC template and Spring IOC (Dependency Injection).  • Spring MVC model integration for front-end request action controller.  • Developed the persistence layer using Hibernate Framework, created the POJO objects and mapped using Hibernate annotations and Transaction Management.  • Extensively used hibernate named queries, criteria queries, Hibernate Query Language (HQL) and Optimistic Locking and Caching to process the data from the database.  • Involved in creating various Data Access Objects (DAO) for addition, modification and deletion of records using various specification files.  • Used Apache Axis Service Engine for creating and deploying Web Service clients using SOAP.  • Consumed SOAP and RESTful Web Services in SOA environment and used SOAP UI for testing.  • Created flows on messaging using Active MQ.  • Written Stored Procedures and SQL Queries to interact with MS SQL Server.  • Extensively used JUnit for unit testing, integration testing and production testing.  • Involved in installing and configuring Maven for application builds and deployment.  • Used JIRA to assign, track, report and audit the issues in the application.  • Worked withIntellijand used Gradle build tool to achieve more functionality for build process.  • Involved in Maintenance and Enhancements for the project.    Environment: Agile Methodology, Java, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JQuery, NodeJS, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring Batch, Spring Security, XML, XSD, SOAP, RESTful, Active MQ, Log4j, SOA, Apache Tomcat, JUnit, Maven, GIT, JIRA and IntelliJ. Java Developer Health Connection - Minneapolis, MN December 2014 to December 2015 Health Connection is a Minnesota non-profit that acts as an intermediary, working with government and community social service agencies to help people with very long histories of homelessness move into and prosper in supportive housing. The purpose of Pilot is to provide an automated system that enables the consistent collection, management, and reporting of information for the Supportive Housing and Managed Care Pilot.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) deliverables of the project using the Agile methodology.  • Developed International Error Correction Screens using custom front-end forms using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX.  • Gathered and clarified requirements with business analyst to feed into high-level customization design, development and installation phases.  • Used Spring Framework for dependency injection for Action classes using Application Context XML file.  • Involved in implementation of MVC pattern using JSP and Spring Controller.  • Developed business objects using Spring IOC, Spring MVC and Spring AOP.  • Implemented MVC architecture using JSP Spring, Hibernate and used Spring Framework to initialize managed beans and services.  • Implemented SOA architecture with Web Services using SOAP, RESTful, JAX-WS, WSDL, UDDI and XML.  • Used Struts Framework, Tag Libraries to implement J2EE design patterns (MVC).  • Developed user interface using JSP, Struts published validation framework to support client side and Server-side validation.  • Used Collections for Model classes in the DAO layer (Data Access Object) Involved in modifying some changes in DAO layer using Hibernate.  • Created mappings among the relations and written SQL queries using Hibernate.  • Implemented Concurrency, Exception Handling and Collections whenever necessary.  • Used Entity Beans to persist the data into IBMDB2 database like database access components, Creating Schemas and Tables.  • Used SQL to perform data mapping and backend testing, also documented all the SQL queries for future testing purpose.  • Created process flow for deploying application in Web Sphere application server and used Eclipse IDE.  • Managed build, reporting and documentation from the project information using Maven Tool and SVN for version control.  • Used Jenkins for Continuous Integration.  • Used JUnit for testing and used JIRA for tracking bugs.  • Responsible for the dealing with the problem, bug fixing and troubleshooting.    Environment: Java, J2EE, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, Struts, Spring, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Hibernate, REST, SOAP, XML, XSLT, Eclipse, PL/SQL, JUnit, Maven Build Tool, IBM DB2, JIRA, Jenkins, SVN and IBM WebSphere. Java/J2EE Developer Edutech Information June 2012 to November 2014 The objective of this project is to implement a web based front end system which can be used by the employees, managers and higher level management having specific role permissions for effective processing of day to day business activities in the company like leave management, project management and resource management etc.    Responsibilities:  • Gathered/analyzed functional requirements for the new phase in design.  • Worked on building high performant core java multi-threaded modules utilizing (thread pools, thread locals, re-entrant locks wait/notify, latches, deadlocks etc.).  • Developed front user interface modules using JSP.  • Contributed to architecting the framework according to the J2EE Design Patterns (Client tire, Middle tire, Business tire).  • Developed Use-case diagrams, class diagrams according to the UML standards.  • Developed both client and server-side functionality using Struts and J2EE technologies.  • Developed Action classes to delegate the request to the business models and Action Forms.  • Developed web application using Struts framework that uses Model View Controller (MVC) architecture with JSP as the view in the front end.  • Created XML files to provide Context and Hibernate Mapping for database persistence.  • Worked on WSDL's files in SOAP web services.  • Involved in writing complex queries using PL/SQL to extract data from database and to delete the data and to reload the data on Oracle database.  • Developed functional test cases for Integration and Functional testing, regression testing using JUnit, and user acceptance testing.  • Used ANT as deployment tool to handle platform specific properties such as file separators and automating complicated repetitive tasks.  • Developed various scripts for Creation and deployment of the code package using WebLogic.  • Implemented the SQL queries for database interaction.  • Worked as support in production for various production issues.    Environment:J2EE, Struts, JSP, AJAX, JDBC, Oracle, WebLogic, JavaScript, Java Beans, HTML, UML, JUnit, ANT, Tiles Framework, Validation framework and Design Patterns, Windows XP. Jr. Java Developer JSB Info Systems August 2011 to May 2012 Sales Force Automation is software to automate the business tasks of sales, including order processing, contact management, information sharing, inventory monitoring and control, order tracking, customer management, sales forecast analysis and employee performance evaluation.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis, Design and implemented the application in MVC(Model View Controller) Architecture.  • Developed the application using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSP, Servlets and JDBC.  • Used JavaScript for client-side validations.  • Involved in Documentation and use case design using UML modeling include development of Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams and use case Transaction diagrams.  • Developed activity, sequence and class diagrams using Unified Modeling Language (UML) and Rational Rose.  • Responsible for performance tuning of the product and eliminating memory leakages in the product.  • Used JDBC to connect to the My SQL database and written complex SQL queries to retrieve data from the database.  • Deployed the application in Apache Tomcat Server.  • Used JUnit to perform unit testing.  • Used Eclipse tool for application development.  • Used Configuration Management Tools for version control which is built on CVS.  • Participated in design and code review meetings with developers.    Environment: Java, HTML, CSS, JSP, JavaScript, Servlets, Model View Controller Architecture, JDBC, My SQL, UML, SQL, Junit, Eclipse, Maven, CVS and Apache Tomcat Server. Education Bachelor's Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, J2se, Java Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Languages: C, C++, Java 1.8, J2EE, and PL/SQL.  Tools and Framework:  Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Web Flow, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring Security, Struts, JSF, JUnit, SOAP UI, JReport.    J2SE/J2EE Technologies:  Java, J2EE, RMI, Sockets, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JMS, Java Beans, JSTL, JSF, Jakarta Struts, EJB, Spring, Hibernate, JTA, JNDI, JPA JMS, Web Services (JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, SOAP, REST, WSDL, UDDI and RESTFUL), Groovy/Grails.    Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, AngularJS, JSF, AJAX, NodeJS, JSON Restful.  XML Technologies: XML, XSL, DOM, SAX, DTD, XQuery, XSD and XSLT.  Cloud Technologies: AWS EC2, S3, Dynamo DB, ELB  Databases: Oracle, SQL-Server, MySQL server, MS SQL, IBM DB2, MongoDB, NoSQL.  Web/Application Servers: Apache Tomcat, IBM WebSphere, Glassfish, Web logic Application server, JBOSS.  Build Tools: ANT, Maven, Gradle, Vagrant, Docker and Jenkins  IDE/Tools: Eclipse, IntelliJ, Spring Tool Suite(STS), RAD  Testing Tools/Others: JUnit, Mockito, Soap UI, Log4j and JIRA  Version Control: Tortoise SVN, CVS and GIT  Platforms: Windows, Mac, Linux and Unix.  Methodologies: Agile, Waterfall, Test Driven Development