Java, J2ee Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>, J2ee <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java, J2ee Developer - Cigna Healthcare Edison, NJ ? Around 8 years of experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as a Software Developer with expertise in Object-Oriented Design, Development, Testing and Support of enterprise Level Intranet/Internet Web based Applications using Waterfall, RUP and Agile processes.  ? Well experienced in Core Java - asynchronous programming, multithreading, collections and a few design patterns.  ? Extensive knowledge in working with core java,J2EE technologies such as Servlets, JSP, JDBC, EJB, JNDI, Java Beans, JMS and Object Oriented Programming techniques.  ? Expertise in working with Struts 1.X/2.X, Spring, Java, JSP, JDBC, JPA, JDO, JUnit, JavaScript, HTML, XHTML, XML and XSLT.  ? Proficient developer of view-controller components using Servlet's/JSPs and Struts Framework.  ? Worked on Full stack of development from backend Business layer to frontend UI layer.  ? Expertise in Design, Development, Deployment of Enterprise and Web Based projects using Web servers and various application servers including WebLogic and WebSphere/RAD.  ? Hands on experience in applying the principles of Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using both RESTful and SOAP webservices.  ? Created maven archetypes for generating fully functional REST web services supporting both XML and JSON message transformation. Archetypes built on Spring technology.  ? Experience in RESTFul frame works both Jersey and CXF.  ? Expertise in Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), OOP (Object Oriented Programming) and applying OO principles in software development.  ? Elaborated understanding and experience in implementing JAVA Design Patterns.  ? Hands on experience in designing UML diagrams using EA and Rational Rose.  ? Good experience in working with different types of databases like DB2, Oracle, MySQL.  ? Experience in AWS services such as EC2, Elastic Beanstalk, DynamoDB, , Redshift and Cloud Foundry.  ? Experience in Nosql/ XML databases ( Cassandra, Mongo).  ? Rich experience in deploying of J2EE Applications on various servers (WebLogic, JBOSS and Tomcat).  ? Experience in working with ORM tools like Hibernate.  ? Experience in writing test cases to and run test scripts.  ? Experience in working with IDEs like Eclipse, RAD and STS.  ? Experienced in coding SQL Procedures/Functions, Triggers and Packages on database packages like Oracle.  ? Good working knowledge on Clear Case for code management and version control.  ? Knowledge of software development life cycle and project documentation.  ? Good interpersonal skills to work effectively in a team environment. Work Experience Java, J2ee Developer Cigna Healthcare - Edison, NJ January 2018 to Present Description:  Health Insurance Hub with single-point Internet access provides stream lined process for claims processing and transactional processing. The Application Client, Web Client tier is developed using spring, JSP, and Servlets. Business Logic and Messaging is developed using EJB, XML, SOAP, WSDL, and Business Objects. Used Web Sphere Application Server, MQSeries with JMS for Messaging and Teradata as Database.    Responsibilities:    ? Used WSAD as IDE in developing EJB and deploying in server.  ? Generated Session beans, CMP and Message Driven Beans, and deployed on Websphere.  ? Implemented JMS to asynchronously send and receive messages, Error Tickets placed in Message Queues automatically generated and updated into database by Remedy Trigger.  ? The Application Servers were installed in clustered mode to balance the load in the case of increased traffic.  ? Installed, configured, maintained and administered Linux / UNIX operating systems and components.  ? Skillful with the use of network connectivity tools like Ping, Netstat, Nslookup, Traceroute, Dig, Ethtool.  ? Prepared prototypes for the project, based on the user requirements.  ? Used Struts framework for presentation layer.  ? Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in spring framework using Dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IOC) using annotations.  ? Worked on coding of Servlets and EJB communication.  ? Used Hibernate framework for data persistence.  ? Involved in creating the Hibernate POJO Objects and mapped using Hibernate Annotations for data persistence.  ? Have experience in pushing UrbanCode Deploy applications to Cloud Foundry.  ? Used AWS Lambda with AWS services as event sources  ? Involved in working with Scrum Agile process with two week iterations delivering new features and working software at each iteration  ? Prepared Low Level Designs (LLDs) and UNIT Test Cases.  ? Performed Code Review to ensure Organization and Project level standards are met and checked for redundant code.  ? Installed, configured and hosted the Tomcat app servers and MySQL DB servers on physical servers (Linux, Mac, Windows), and Amazon AWS virtual servers (Linux)  ? Implemented different levels of logging and timely backups using Log4j.  ? Used putty for unix login to run the batch jobs and check server logs.  ? VMware ESXi 5.5/vSphere Installation & Configuration.  ? Planning and Designing VMware /vSphere (ESXi 5.5 andd VMware VirtualCenter).  ? Installation, Configuration and maintenance of Hosted VMware products.  ? Played a key role in the development and maintenance of the application.  ? Experience in installing and configuring kick start in Linux.  ? Extensive experience in setup, configuration, upgrade, maintenance, performance monitoring and troubleshooting on different UNIX platforms like Linux, VMWARE and system software and hardware  ? Performed Unit Testing and System Integration Testing.    Environment: Java, J2EE, RMI, XML, XSD, Spring, Hibernate, SOA, Web Services, Business Objects, SAX/DOM, Websphere, WSAD, JMS, , Teradata, JDBC, JNDI, JSP, EJB, Java Servlets, JavaScript, Rational Rose, HTML UML,Cloud Foundry, Amazon AWS virtual Server,RUP, Agile, Clear Case, HTTP, HTTPS, SSL, Visual SourceSafe, Dream Weaver and Windows NT, Linux. Java, J2ee Developer PayPal - Sparks, MD January 2016 to December 2017 Description: This is MVC based application, which is developed based spring MVC. This project is about giving credit to the customers by checking the customer's credit score. PayPal providing the PayPal credit services across the US, now they are extending their PayPal credit services to some other countries like (UK, Germany).    Responsibilities:  ? Developed the application using the Spring MVC  ? Added the new functionalities to the existing application  ? Design Use Cases, Sequence, ER-Diagrams and Class diagrams using Eclipse Plugins  ? Involved in preparing design documents  ? Following the agile methodology  ? Used AngularJS to develop this website as a responsive website.  ? Used two-way data binding features of AngularJS to implement Data binding to bind various server controls to the data from database.  ? Development of the service layer using Java/J2EE.  ? Development using Spring Framework (MVC, Dependency Injection, Auto wiring, Caching, Database Connectivity, REST and SOAP Client API, Asynchronous calls, Thread Executor framework) which communicates with various service layers and configuring the spring xml files.  ? Used the JSP tag libraries for the UI  ? Consuming and cresting the REST full web services using Jersey client.  ? Creating the server side REST web services using CXF  ? Testing the REST web services with Rest Client tool  ? Hibernate used as the ORM tool to persist the data in the data base  ? Developed the database backend components as SQL  ? Writing the Automation test cases using the Selenium  ? Writing the unit test cases using TestNG  ? Tested the functional flow of the website    Environment: J2EE, JSP, Spring, Java, MVC , HTTP, Hibernate 3.0, Web Services, REST, XML, JSON, SQL, HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, Eclipse, Junit, log4j, Git, Selenium, WebLogic 10.3 Java/J2EE Developer Wells Fargo Dallas TX - Dallas, TX June 2014 to December 2015 Description:  Wells Fargo & Company is a diversified financial services company. The Company has three operating segments: Community Banking, Wholesale Banking, and Wealth and Investment Management. The current Project is developed to build a common and dynamic application interface to allow applicants to select, apply and receive a decision for multiple banking products Deposits (Checking, Saving, Debit Cards), Credit Cards, Mortgage, Brokerage Accounts (Mutual Funds ) for various delivery channels E-Commerce ,Banking Center and Partners Site without the need to re-key information nor visit individual product applications.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Full Cycle of Software Development from Analysis through Design, Development, Integration and testing phases.  ? Followed Agile Software Development with Scrum methodology.  ? Used Sybase database for querying, updating data in the database.  ? Worked in using Weblogic Application Server for deploying and testing the code.  ? Created Spring Controllers classes based on the existing Struts Action classes.  ? Used Hibernate ORM for mapping Java classes to database tables and data querying  ? Used JPA for mapping business objects to database  ? Developed POJO's, Data Access Object (DAO) to handle all database operations. Used Hibernate in persistence layer.  ? Produced and Consumed RESTful Web services in JSON.  ? Developed front end GUI using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and enforced the look and feel  ? standards using the style sheets, common headers, footers & menus, and web page templates using Apache Tiles.  ? Designed and added new features to the existing application Worked on developing hands-on API support for the application.  ? Migrate code from Jenkins to Bamboo.  ? Work involved extensive usage of HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript and Ajax for client side development and validations  ? Develop and execute Unit Test plans using JUnit, ensuring that results are documented and reviewed with Quality Assurance teams responsible for integrated testing.  ? Used SVN for version controlling and Eclipse as IDE  ? Impact analysis, Design and development of Use cases and Business req.  ? Estimate the requirement, and resources.  ? Coding and Unit testing, Review.  ? Worked in deadline driven environment with immediate feature release cycles.  ? Provided extensive pre-delivery support using Bug Fixing and Code Reviews.    Environment: Java-J2EE, JDK, JSP, Servlets, spring, RESTful Web services, Json, Hibernate, Agile, Eclipse, Sybase, Maven, Subversions, PL/SQL, Weblogic 10.3, Apache Tiles, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, XML. Java, J2ee Developer FreddieMac - McLean, VA November 2012 to May 2014 Description:  This is an existing mortgage application, which is developed based on struts MVC. We converted this application to spring MVC and replaced the struts tag libraries with spring and jstl tag libraries. We also added new functionalities further enhancing the existing application. We used the spring security to avoid the proxy server attacks.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed Application using Spring MVC Architecture  ? Converted the Struts MVC application Spring MVC Application  ? Added new functionalities to the existing application.  ? Design Use Cases, Sequence, ER-Diagrams and Class diagrams using Eclipse Plugins  ? Involved in preparing design documents, developing use cases, identifying classes and Objects, drawing class diagrams, sequence diagrams using Eclipse Plugins and identifying the design patterns, frameworks to be used during implementation.  ? Replaced the Struts tag Libraries from the jsp with spring and JSTL tag libraries.  ? Created the server side REST web services  ? Testing the REST web services using Rest Client tool  ? Used the Spring JdbcTemplate to persist and retrieve the data from database.  ? Used macros to map the xml data to the excel sheet.  ? Developed database access components with the back end as DB2.  ? Tested the functional flow of the website.  ? Performed Unit Testing using JUnit and supported System in production.    Environment: J2EE, JSP, Spring, Java, MVC , HTTP, Struts, Web Services, REST, Jersey, Hibernate 3.0, XML, XSLT, XLSM, DB2, HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, Eclipse, Rational Clear Case, Junit, log4j, Weblogic 10.6 Java/J2EE Developer Image Hospitals - IN May 2010 to September 2012 Description:  Doctor's staff credentials are maintained in this intranet system. It is one of the most important and critical systems in the healthcare industry. Medical Staff Credentials System is used for verifying and determining the credentials of the doctors. The system stores information like Doctor's licenses, license expiry dates, credentials, specialization, surgery records, etc.    Responsibilities:  ? Participated in gathering and understanding the client's requirements.  ? Design Use Cases, Sequence, ER-Diagrams and Class diagrams using Rational Rose  ? Involved in preparing design documents, developing use cases, identifying classes and Objects, drawing class diagrams, sequence diagrams using Rational Rose and identifying the design patterns, frameworks to be used during implementation.  ? Re-designing of the website used the JSP to modify the look and feel of the website.  ? Developed database access components with the back end as Oracle 9i.  ? Hibernate was used as ORM tool for persisting the data.  ? Development was done in a clustered environment.  ? Used Struts Framework for development of Web applications.  ? Developed spring services and had configured IOC (inversion of control).  ? Used SOAP (Simple Object Access Protocol) for web service by exchanging XML data between the applications.  ? Developed web services using REST.  ? Involved in the design and the implementation using J2EE framework.  ? Tested the functional flow of the website.  ? Performed Unit Testing using JUnit and supported System in production.    Environment: J2EE, JSP, Spring, Java, MVC, SOAP, WSDL, Web services, REST, HTTP, Struts, Hibernate 3.0, XML, XSLT, XSL, Oracle 9i, HTML5, CSS3, STS, Rational Clear Case, Weblogic 10.3 Education Bachelor's Skills Java (8 years), JSP (8 years), Web Services (8 years), WebLogic (7 years), XML (8 years)