Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - Subway Milford, CT ? Overall 8+ years of experience in Software design and development activities including requirement analysis, design, implementations and testing of various client server based applications using Java and J2EE technologies.  ? Extensive experience in CoreJava, Servlets, JSP, JavaScript, JDBC, JSTL, Struts, JSF, EJB, AJAX and Custom Tag Libraries.  ? Extensive experience in working with different MVC Frameworks like Spring, Strutsand ORM (Object Relational mapping tools) like Hibernate.  ? Experienced working with databases like DB2, MY SQL, Oracle, MS SQL Serverand Application Servers like BEA WebLogic, IBM WebSphere, Apache Tomcat.  ? Expertise in developing critical & responsive GUI / front-end components using HTML, XHTML, DHTML, JavaScript, CSS2/CSS3, JSON, JSP, Servlets, Ajax, JQuery, EXT.JS, JSTL and JavaScript using frameworks like Bootstrap, AngularJS, Ext JS.  ? Experience in application of MVC and MVVM client-side JavaScript frameworks such as Angular 2.0, Angular.JS, Back Bone.JS, Ember.JS, Handlebar.JS.  ? Experienced on Server-side JavaScript structures like NodeJS, Hapi.JS, Express.JS.  ? Experience in performing unit testing using Junit and ridiculing systems like JMock and Mockitointegration and development of applications done using Ant and Maven tools.  ? Worked on NoSQL databases like MongoDB and Apache Cassandra.  ? Swagger usage and testing structures like Mock MVC, Mock Rest MVC.  ? Experience in Integration of Amazon Web Services AWS applicationlike Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Simple DB, Amazon Elastic Load Balancing, Amazon SQS, Amazon EBS and Amazon Cloud Front.  ? Worked under new technologies introduced in java8 like Functional interfaces and Lambda Expressions  ? Experience in conveying and arranging application servers, for example, IBM WebSphere, Oracle WebLogic, Jboss and Apache Tomcat.  ? Expertise in Database Drivers Like JDBC, Spring JSBC to summon DB stores strategies.  ? Experience inORM systems like Hibernate, Spring information, IBatis and JPA.  ? Extensive experience with Frameworks in ORM (Hibernate) and Spring (Spring MVC, Spring Context, Spring DAO, Spring AOP, Spring Batch Spring Security)  ? Experience in using test tools like Selenium for Unit and Integration Testing and used Cucumber for Acceptance Testing.  ? Sound learning on bundle directors, for example, NPM, Bower, Web pack.  ? Extensive working background with different J2EE Frameworks like Spring MVC, Struts, JSF and master level aptitudes in spring system modules like Spring Batch, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Spring JTA, Spring AOP.  ? Profound learning on Maven, Gradle, ANT as fabricate content for application assemble and arrangement.  ? Worked under a business rule management system (BRMS) like Drools.  ? Worked on utilizing Rabbit MQ, IBM MQ, Apache Kafka as a Message Oriented Middleware for coordinating applications.  ? Strong learning in SOAP, WSDL, and RESTful for trading organized data in the usage of web administrations.  ? Developed small scale administrations like RESTful web benefit JaxRSwith Jersey, Apache CXF.  ? Extensive experience using Spring Framework in business layer for Dependency Injection, AOP, Spring MVC, transaction management and using Hibernate as a persistence layer.  ? Experienced in utilizing source code variant administration apparatuses like SVN, GIT and undertaking sprinters like Grunt, Gulp and Web pack.  ? Implemented OAuth2 and SAML authentication protocol for enterprise web API security model.  ? Designed and developed Spring SOAP and RESTful web services and Spring JMS modules to interact with enterprise and legacy applications.  ? Worked in developing web applications on MVC based frameworks like Spring, Spring IOC, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, and Spring MVC.  ? Implemented Spring Cloud- NetflixZULto building microservices to communicate with each other.  ? Implemented Spring Circuit Breaker pattern, integrated HystrixDashboard to monitor Spring micro services.  ? Experience with Angular 4 Directives, Dependency Injection, Services, Routing, pipes, Animations, Forms, AOT, Lazy Loading.  ? Worked onMicroservices using Docker container using Amazon EC2 container service and using AWS admin console.  ? Work under Groovy script for setting in a dynamic way some properties for invoking the web service.  ? Excellent working knowledge on popular frameworks like Struts, Spring, Hibernate.  ? Sound learning on consistent mix and persistent improvement devices like Jenkins, Hudson, Puppet and Bamboo. Strong involvement in UNIX and Shell Scripting.  ? Extensive experience in SQL, Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers with databases such as Oracle, IBM DB2 and MS SQL Server.  ? Implemented Spring Batch and ESP Task & Job Scheduler to automate importing data from CSV files sent from client into database.  ? Used Spring Inheritance to develop beans from already developed parent beans.  ? Worked under the latest standardized version of JavaScript like ECMAScript 6.  ? Experienced in using WSDL, SOAP, and Apache AXIS for Web Services. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer Subway - Milford, CT May 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Developed the webpages using framework Angular 6.0 along with HTML5, CSS3 and Type Script.  ? Designed and reviewed the test scenarios and scripts for given functional requirements and automated test cases in Selenium.  ? Extensively worked on the Angular UI Routing to handle navigation to access different pages in the application. Migrated from Angular2 to Angular6.  ? Using Angular 6.0 JS factory and services for dependency injection.  ? Using Angular 6.0, we created custom directives for re-usable components (multi-field form elements, background file uploads, etc.)  ? Created Menus and Drawer component by using Typescript and Angular 6.0  ? Implemented continuous integration using Docker.  ? Extensively used the LOG4j to log regular Debug and Exception Statements.  ? Experience in using Atlassian tools like JIRA, Bitbucket, Bamboo, Confluence&Source Tree.  ? Experience with Angular 4 Directives, Dependency Injection, Services, Routing, pipes, Animations, Forms, AOT, Lazy Loading.  ? Used Spring framework and J2EE components, UtilizedSpring Boot, IOC and DAO modules. Developed controller classes, backend process, complex services and database interaction.  ? Used Spring Boot to create stand-alone spring applications.  ? Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 6.  ? Implemented Micro Services based Cloud Architecture using Spring Boot and implementation of Business Services using the Java8 and Spring Boot.  ? Used SpringBoot framework to write Presentation Layer, Business Layers and Controller servlets.  ? Implemented Spring BootActuator to monitor application performance.  ? Used Spring Inheritance to develop beans from already developed parent beans.  ? Developed Java classes for implementing asynchronous processing using JSM.  ? Implemented Spring Batch and ESP Task & Job Scheduler to automate importing data from CSV files sent from client into database.  ? Used Spring Cloud Config which provides server and client-side support for externalized configuration in a distributed system.  ? Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) which provides reliable and asynchronous form of communication and have good knowledge in RabbitMQ.  ? Implemented OAuth2 and SAML authentication protocol for enterprise web API security model.  ? Expertise in using built tools like Maven, ANTfor the building of deployable artifacts such as jar & war from source code.  ? Implemented a Node.js server to manage authentication.  ? Ran Bower and Grunt components and wrote the scripting using Node.js.  ? Implemented Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) by invoking multiple SOAP based Web Servicesand generating client using JAX-WS. Used SOAPUI to interact with other applications using SOAPand WSDL file.  ? Integrated Spring with Hibernate using configurations and implemented DAO layer to save entities into data base.  ? Used Kubernetestoconfigured in the application for automating deployment, scaling, and management of containerized applications.  ? Developed application on Spring framework by utilizing its features like Spring Boot, Spring Dependency injection, Spring Beans, Spring Security, Spring JPA, Spring Web flow using MVC  ? Implemented OAuth 2.0 provider mechanism is responsible for exposing OAuth 2.0 protected resources.  ? Build and configure a virtual data center in the Amazon Web Services cloud to support Enterprise Data.  ? Troubleshooting technical issues and drive issue escalation with AWS Service teams  ? Used Rest templates in the Spring Services to call the rest web services.  ? Used Hibernate, object relational-mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with a SQL-based schema.  ? Involved in creating the Hibernate POJO Objects and mapped using Hibernate Annotations.  ? Used a microservice architecture with spring-boot based services interacting through a combination of REST and RabbitMQ.  ? Having good implementation experience with installation and configuration of Kubernetes, clustering them and managed local deployments in Kubernetes.  ? Involved in writing Oracle PL/SQL Stored procedures, triggers, and views.  ? Worked on NoSQL data base MongoDB& Performed CRUD operations like Update, Insert & Delete.  ? Fetched data from mongo DB using mongoose.    Environment:Angular 6.0, Spring Boot, IOC, DAO, Micro Services, JSM, Node JS, OAuth 2.0, Bower, Grunt, RabbitMQ, Amazon Web Services (AWS), Spring Services, Hibernate, POJO, Maven, ANT, PL/SQL, MongoDB, Kubernetes, Mongoose, Selenium, Docker, Log4j, Jenkins, Bamboo, SSL/TLS. Full Stack Java Developer Impossible Foods - Redwood City, CA October 2014 to May 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Experienced in implementing the Node.js server-side code along with Express framework to interact with MongoDB to store and retrieve data by using the Mongoose package.  ? Worked on using Rule Engines, Droolswith corresponding to validate the business User Roles.  ? Worked with a team to develop and maintain an internal Log Delivery System, utilizing various Apache products, Kafka, and Tomcat.  ? Closely worked with Application using React JS and Node.js libraries NPM, gulp directories to generate desired view and flux to root the URL's properly.  ? Used Node.js and Express.js to develop the relevant back end RESTful API.  ? Developed various screens for the front end using React JS and used various predefined components from NPM and Redux.  ? Automated the front-end workflow using NPM.  ? Automated testing using Mocha and Chai.  ? Created producers, consumer and Zookeeper setup for oracle to Kafka replication.  ? Designed and developed Micro Services business components using Spring Boot.  ? Implemented the Project structure based on Spring MVC pattern using Spring Boot and persisted data to MongoDB using Spring Data.  ? Implemented MVVM architecture using Redux Architecture with React JS.  ? Establishing Restful API'S using NODE.JS and application backend implemented as NODE.JS application server.  ? Worked with DB2 and wrote SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, triggers, views and integrated SQL Queries into DAO.  ? Developed Oracle PL/SQL Stored Procedures and Queries for Payment release process and authorization process.  ? Used JavaScript ES6 in Node.js runtime environment to build RESTful APIs and to import data.  ? Worked on Prototyping and Implementation using Java8, AWS with Slacker platform.  ? Developed single page applications using ReactRedux architecture, ES6, web pack and grunt.  ? Involved in creating a reusable component using React JS for DOM manipulation.  ? Wrote Client-Side code using ReactJS and used NPM& gulp directories to generate the server environments used browserify, flux to manage with targeted URL's and to monitor the application.  ? Responsible for implementing UI mockups, integrating third party react libraries, and handling/creating Redux store data.  ? Implemented OAUTH2.0 authentication protocol and provided OAuth2.0 token implementation guidelines for enterprise web API security model.  ? Worked on MVC design pattern and Restful WebAPI to make calls from JS files to MVC controllers and Web API controllers using token authentication and OAuth.  ? Used Webpack for bundling our application which takes JavaScript application and bundling it all together with its dependencies.  ? Introduced and implemented Webpack infrastructure to modernize JavaScript practices by extending ES6 through babel loaders.  ? Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, schema design.  ? Developed Micro Services based API using Spring Boot and Spring Data.  ? Implemented storing the High-volume transaction data in NOSQL Databases using Spring Data.  ? Developed common reusable component libraries (CRUD Scaffolding) to be reused in different projects throughout the company's IT team using GWT, Spring Data, JPA.  ? Design and build a large-scale global Docker Container-as-a-Service  ? Design and build Docker tools and integrations like Docker images and Docker Plugins.  ? Worked on Docker container implementation for the Enterprise build system.  ? Micro services have been built using spring boot, NetflixOSS, Spring Cloud and deploying to AWSCloud.  ? Understand and document customer website code and create scalable, modular microservices to replace the existing website using Spring Boot and Spring Cloud.  ? Used Hibernate to persist, access, update and delete objects in database.  ? Involved in creating the Hibernate POJO Objects and mapped using Hibernate Annotations.  ? Implemented AWS solutions using E2C, S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto-scaling groups and used AWSSDK to connect with Amazon SQS for bulk email processing.  ? Created instances in AWS as well as migrated data to AWS from data Center using snowball and AWS migration service.    Environment: Mongo DB, Express JS, Angular 2.0, Hibernates, React JS, Node JS, Spring Boot, Redux, ES6, Web Pack, Grunt, NPM, OAuth 2.0, Spring Data, Mocha, Chai, Kafka, Docker, Spring Cloud, AWS, Drools. Full Stack Java Developer Dearborn National - Grove, IL April 2010 to October 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Implemented a metrics collection mechanism for the server by utilizing Apache Kafka to stream server-side events.  ? Designed, configured and deployed Amazon Web Services (AWS) for a multitude of applications utilizing the AWS stack (Including EC2, S3), focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling.  ? Using Angular 2.0, we created custom directives for re-usable components (multi-field form elements, background file uploads, etc.)  ? Worked in various Business rules in thedrools file using Drools rule engine.  ? Configured AWS EC2 instances, domain mapping via Route53.  ? Extensively used CSS and Bootstrap for styling the HTML elements.  ? Developing Rest Services using Rest Template with SpringBoot and gradle.  ? Containerized the SpringBoot microservice using Docker.  ? Using Angular 2.0 JS factory and services for dependency injection.  ? Participated in front end development using JSF 2.0, JavaScript, HTML 5, CSS 3.0.  ? Designed Frontend with in object orientedJavaScript Framework with Angular.js.  ? Developed API for using AWS Lambda to manage the servers and run the code in the AWS.  ? Developed dynamic web pages using HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Bootstrap, Less, CSS3 (SASS) and AJAX.  ? Tested JavaScript using Jasmine frameworks.  ? Configuring and managed public/private cloud infrastructure utilizing Amazon Web Services like Amazon Ec2, Amazon S3.  ? Implemented ODBC which is used for connecting to the database Oracle.  ? Integrated testing methods implemented by using Karma and Jasmine  ? Developed application on Spring framework by utilizing its features like Spring Boot, Spring Dependency injection, Spring Beans, Spring Security, Spring JPA, Spring Web flow using MVC.  ? Apache CXF helps you build and develop services using frontend programming APIs, like JAX-WS and JAX-RS.  ? Developed RESTful Services and Web Service Clients (JAX-RS or JAX-WS) with data representation in different formats such as XML and JSON.    Environment: JAVA, J2EE, Core Java, Spring Boot, Spring Frame work, JSF, EJB, JMS, AJAX, JavaScript, Spring MVC, Spring Batch, spring security, Spring IOC, Apache CXF, Rest Service, Jax RS, BROOLS, Angular JS, Angular controllers, Angular customs directions, digestive cycle, Karma and jasmine, MultiThreading, AWS, Jquery, HTML5, CSS3, Ajax, ORACLE, Rabbit MQ. Education Bachelor's Skills DATABASE (9 years), JAVA (9 years), ORACLE (9 years), SECURITY (9 years), APACHE (8 years), Spring, J2Ee, Java J2Ee, Javascript, Hibernate Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Programming Languages C, C++, Java, PHP, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Script  Java/J2EE Technologies Servlets, Spring, Hibernate, EJB, JPA, JTA, JDBC, JSP, JSTL, JNDI, AWT, Applets  Frameworks Struts 2.0/1.0, Spring 3.0, Spring Batch, Spring Security, Spring AOP, Spring Core, JSF, IBatis, Spring IOC.  Web Technologies HTML, HTML5, CSS/CSS3, AJAX, Bootstrap, XML, Grunt, Gulp, JSON.  Database SQL Server, MySQL, Oracle, Mongo DB, DB2  JavaScript Frameworks Angular JS, Angular 2, JQuery, Node.js, Backbone.js, Hapi.js, React.js, Express.js, Ember.js, Handlebars.JS  Web Services XSD, WSDL, Apache Axis, SOAP, Restful, GraphQL, JAX RS, JAX WS  Messaging JMS ( Java Message Service), IBM MQ, Apache Active MQ, Apache Kafka  WebApplication Servers Oracle WebLogic 10.x/9.x, IBM WebSphere 8.x/6.x, Apache Tomcat 8.0/7.x/6.x, JBoss  Methodologies Agile, Waterfall, OOAD, SCRUM  Testing Tools JUnit, Mockito, Jasmine, Karma, Mocha, Chai, Selenium  Version Control SVN, CVS, GIT and Clear Case  Build Tools Maven, Gradle, ANT  IDEs Eclipse IDE, RAD 6.0/7.0, Intellij IDEA, Spring Tool Suite (STS)  Operating Systems Windows, Linux and UNIX  Software Visual Studio, Rational Rose and Microsoft Office