SR PYTHON DEVELOPER SR PYTHON <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> SR PYTHON DEVELOPER - ROCKWELL AUTOMATION Milwaukee, WI • 7+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and object-oriented programming (OOP) coding with Python, Django, C++.  • Extensive knowledge in Python, Java, MySQL, Oracle, UNIX, Linux and in Object oriented Design and Programming concepts.  • Cognitive about designing, deploying and operating highly available, scalable and fault tolerant systems using Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Experienced in using various programming languages like Python, Java.  • Proficient with various python libraries like SciPy, NumPy, Matplotlib, Pandas to enhance the performance throughout the SDLC.  • Extensive experience in developing Single Page Applications (SPA) using JavaScript libraries like ReactJS.  • Proficient with various DBMS like MySQL, SQL, Oracle, PostgreSQL, MongoDB and Cassandra.  • Well versed with Design and Development of presentation layer for web application using technologies like HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, XML, Angular JS, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, Jinja2 and JSP.  • Familiar with development and deployment of various cloud based systems like AWS and Azure.  • Experience using version control system such as GIT and SVN, with Jenkins.  • Experience in shell scripting and shell commands.  • Hands-on experience in UNIX and Linux Kernels.  • Design and implemented Python XML-RPC and twisted XML-RPC servers that serves information via UNIX sockets and TCP protocols.  • Experience in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture.  • Probabilistic programming in Figaro / Scala & deep probabilistic programming in Edward / TensorFlow.  • Experience in configuration management tools such as Ansible, Chef and Puppet.  • Deployed virtual environments using Open stack and VMware.  • Developed Java/J2ee applications using Hibernate, XML and XSLT using Core Java concepts like OOPS, Garbage Collections, Multithreading and Collection etc.  • Experience in Implementation of MVC architecture using Spring MVC, SOAPUI and SOAP web service.  • Worked in an Agile/SCRUM and Waterfall development environment. Used JIRA to manage bug tracking/debugging for better results.  • Familiar with building multi-threaded applications, and understanding distributed systems like Spark and Storm as well as messaging platforms like Kafka, Rabbit MQ  • Integrated Apache Kafka for data ingestion.  • Used the most popular streaming tool KAFKA to load the data on Hadoop File system and move the same data to Mongo DB Nosql database.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Able to work with different operating systems like MacOS, Windows, Linux and Unix.  • Worked extensively with Unit testing/Test driven Development (TDD), and Load Testing.  • Wrote and executed test cases based on written design, as well as based on product knowledge which improved software performance.  • Thorough understanding of providing specification using waterfall, agile software methodology to modeling systems and business processes.  • Hands on experience in business processes and system solution utilizing prototype development, system development and deployment.  • Excellent at communication, teamwork, problem solving, critical thinking, collaboration, time management. Work Experience SR PYTHON DEVELOPER ROCKWELL AUTOMATION - Milwaukee, WI March 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing web-based application using Python, Django, JavaScript, Express, ReactJS, NodeJS, Express, CSS, MongoDB, and HTML  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Worked on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and into various worker processes.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis.  • Extensively worked on various Python IDE's using PyCharm and Sublime Text.  • Developed & designed automation framework using Python and Shell scripting.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Extensively used Python modules such as requests, Urllib, Urllib 2 for web crawling.  • Developed GUI using Webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of Python code using a web browser.  • Used Spark API over Hadoop YARN as execution engine for data analytics using Hive.  • Used Spark Streaming to divide streaming data into batches as an input to Spark engine for batch processing.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Developed Kafka producer and consumers, HBase clients, Spark, shark, Streams and Hadoop MapReduce jobs along with components on HDFS, Hive.  • Developed Micro services using Golanguage and developed corresponding test cases.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL and VMWare API calls.  • Created PDF reports using Golang and XML documents to send it to all customers at the end of month with international language support.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles  • Developed Python/Django based web application, PostgreSQL DB, and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Implemented configuration changes for data models.  • Maintained and updated existing automated solutions  • Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure  • Risk analysis for potential points of failure (database, communication points, file system errors)  • Troubleshoot the process execution and worked with other team members to correct them.  • Actively worked as a part of team with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated time.  • Tested and validated the custom scripts.  • Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side.  • Interacted with QA to develop test plans from high-level design documentation  • Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing  • Developed test scripts for automation with Selenium.    Environment: Python 3.6/2.7, Django 2.0/1.6, Elastic Search , PiCharm, React JS, Node.js ,Spark, Kafka , Golang, HTML5, CSS, AWS, API Gateway, Java, J2EE, REST API, Spring framework, AngularJS, XML-RPC, twisted XML-RPC,HTML, Amazon S3, TensorFlow, CloudWatch, eclipse, MS-SQL Server, GIT, Jira, Jenkins, Confluence JAVA DEVELOPER PYTHON - Mobile, AL July 2017 to February 2018 Responsibilities:  • Developed strategic partnerships with the business unit to develop a solid knowledge base of the business line, including the business plan, products, and processes.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Responsible for Configuring Kafka Consumer and Producer metrics to visualize the Kafka System performance and monitoring.  • Used Scala to convert Hive/SQL queries into RDD transformations in Apache Spark.  • Migrated Fixed Income and risk procedures from referencing street identifiers to cadis. All new applications started with using cadis.  • Experience in writing scripts to send messages from different servers using Python, ZMQ curve, ZeroMQ, twisted ZeroMQ, twisted XML-RPC, XML-RPC, Google Proto Buffers via IPC, TCP, UDP sockets.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup 4 for Web Scraping to extract data for building graphs  • Worked on Amazon services like Amazon Cloud EC2.  • Added support for Amazon AWS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on PostgreSQL database.  • Successfully Generated consumer group lags from Kafka using their API Kafka- Used for building real-time data pipelines between clusters.  • Experience in Hadoop components like HDFS, Impala, Job Tracker, Name Node, Data Node Task Tracker and Apache Spark and Apache AirFlow.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects. Also involved in validating and processing of files.  • Worked in Agile and SCRUM methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Involved in Unit testing using Python Unit test framework.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Designed Interface using Bootstrap framework.  • Tracking defects and resolving bugs using JIRA.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  • Gathered and analyzed the requirements and converted them into User Requirement Specifications and Functional Requirement  • Specifications for the designers and developers to understand them as per their perspective  • Experience with working on multiple environments like development, testing, production.  • Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills and ability to work on own besides being valuable and contributing team player. Created a Python/Django based web application for data processing using MySQL as database, and HTML/CSS/JavaScript for frontend development and D3 JavaScript for Data Visualization.  • Implemented REST API's in Python using python based micro-framework called Flask with SQL Alchemy in the backend for management of data center resources on which OpenStack would be deployed.  • Worked in DevOps group running Jenkins in a Docker container with EC2 slaves in Amazon AWS cloud configuration.  • Designed and developed MySQL Procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts for Data Import/Export and Conversions.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting programming related issues.  • Worked on Atlassian tools like Bamboo, Jira, and confluence • Installed and configured configuration tool such as Chef Server/workstation and nodes via CLI tools to AWS nodes.  • Created and configured new JIRA projects and worked with departments to maintain existing JIRA projects.  • Created and maintained various DevOps related tools for the team such as provisioning scripts, deployment tools and staged virtual environment using Docker    Environment: Python, Django, Django-CMS, SSO, ReactJS , TFS, Elastic Search, Node.JS PostgreSQL, MySQL, Bootstrap JS, HTML5, CSS3, Agile, REST, JSON DEVELOPER PYTHON - Denver, CO September 2015 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  • Built database Model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web based solutions.  • Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites. Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  • Developed web based application using Django framework with python concepts.  • Generated Python Django forms to maintain the record of online users.  • Used Django API's to access the database.  • Involved in Python OOD code for quality, logging, monitoring, and debugging code optimization.  • Wrote Python modules to view and connect the Apache Cassandra instance.  • Created Unit test/ regression test framework for working/new code.  • Installed and maintained web servers Tomcat and Apache HTTP in UNIX.  • Developed efficient Angular.js for client web based application.  • Responsible for designing, developing, testing, deploying and maintaining the web application.  • Designed and developed the UI for the website with HTML, XHTML, CSS, Java Script and AJAX.  • Involved in working with Python open stock API's.  • Extracted log from Git using Python and performed data cleaning using regex to generate the Changelogs for comparing different software versions.  • Responsible for managing large databases using MySQL.  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db. Package.  • Used the Python's modules Numpy, matPlotLib, etc. for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  • Developed and designed automation framework using Python and Shell scripting.  • Involved in debugging and troubleshooting issues and fixed many bugs in two of the main applications which are main source of data for customers and internal customer service team.  • Implemented SOAP/RESTful web services in JSON format.  • Created Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.  • Attended many day-to-day meetings with developers and users and performed QA testing on the Application.  • Experience in using containers like Docker.    Environment: Python 2.x+ and 3.x+, Django 1.4, HTML, CSS, AJAX, Tomcat, Apache HTTP, Angular.js, JSON, Restful, XML, JavaScript, OOD, Shell Scripting, GIT Hub, MYSQL, Cassandra, JIRA. DEVELOPER PYTHON - Allen, TX September 2013 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  • Created a portable fully automated test tool, allowing 24/7 integration support for two development sites around the world and decreasing code turnaround time from 4 hours to 1 hour.  • Automated the daily and weekly build process to allow us to build daily builds twice a day for faster turnaround time for submitted code changes.  • Automated the code release process, bring the total time for code releases from 8 hours to 1 hour.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Resolved QA bugs for front end and back end.  • Played a key role in a department wide transition from Subversion to Git, which resulted in an increase in efficiency for the development community.  • Developed a mail script that extracts code defects data per component for a daily report to drive reducing defects in the code base.  • Created modern, REST APIs from existing information assets.  • Designed the UI using HTML5, Angular JS, J-Query and CSS.  • Manage a technician that oversees automation and carries out daily tasks.  • Deploying, managing, and operating scale, highly available, and fault tolerant systems to AWS.  • Development of modules using Angular JS and HTML.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.    Environment: Python, Kafka, JSON, GitHub, LINUX, HTML, CSS, Java Script, ReactJS, MySQL. DEVELOPER PYTHON - IN June 2011 to August 2013 INDIA    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the user interface of the project with HTML, CSS and JavaScript  • Entire Front end and back end modules of the project are developed using Python with Django Framework.  • Designed and developed the data management systems using MySQL databases.  • Written Python Scripts to parse the XML documents and load the data in database.  • Utilized the existing Python and Django modules and rewritten to deliver data in required formats.  • Client-side validations and manipulations are done using JavaScript and jQuery.  • Experienced in writing indexes, views, constraints, stored procedures, triggers, cursors and user defined functions or subroutines in MySQL.  • Responsible for Debugging and troubleshooting the application.  • Utilized Subversion control tool to coordinate team work.  • Used Selenium Libraries to write fully functioning test automation process.    Environment: Python 2.6, Django, UNIX, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, MySQL and Bugzilla. Education Bachelor's Skills Visual studio, Amazon web services, Django, Git, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Node.js, Json, Php, Python, Flask, Matplotlib, Numpy, Pandas, Svn, Xml, Xslt, Mysql, Oracle Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages Python 3.5/2.7, Core Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets.  Frameworks Django, Pyramid, Flask, Struts, Hibernate, Spring  Databases MySQL, Oracle, PostgreSQL, SQL, MongoDB, PL/SQL.  Web Technologies AJAX, Django, Angular JS, Node.js, JSON, JavaScript, jQuery, PHP, HTML, XML, CSS, XSLT, Bootstrap.  Web Services SOAP, RESTful, Application/Web servers Apache Tomcat, Web Sphere  IDES/Tools PyCharm, Sublime Text, Spyder, Emacs, NetBeans, Eclipse, Visual Studio, Xcode, Cloud PlatformsAzure, Amazon web services.  Python Libraries Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, Pandas, network, urllib2  Version Control Systems CVS, SVN, Git, GitHub  SDLC Agile methodologies, scrum framework.