Senior Java Developer Senior <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Java Developer - MasterCard O'Fallon, MO • Java J2EE Developer having 7+ years of experience in design and development of Java/J2EE desktop and distributed, Multi-tier web applications.  • Strong experience in Java/J2EE technologies Spring, Hibernate, REST Web Services, Servlets, JSP, AngularJS, HTML, CSS, JDBC.  • Strong experience in Hibernate, Spring JDBC, Core JDBC.  • Solid understanding of core Java fundamentals.  • Good Understanding of Apache Camel Components like Route Builder, Aggregator, Splitter, Timer, File Grabber.  • Good Understanding of Frontend technologies JavaScript, AngularJS, HTML, CSS.  • Proficient in using GIT using both UI and Terminal. Expertise in using Git commands, resolving merge conflicts.  • Good knowledge of database concepts, objects and components like CRUD, indexing, transaction, query language, ORM databases and tools.  • Good experience in build automation and project management tools Maven, Bamboo, and Jenkins to manage project builds, release and documentations.  • Proficient in programming by using the IDE's IntelliJ, Eclipse, STS.  • Used SQL and PL/SQL extensively to perform data analysis and backend testing.  • Working experience with Relational Databases SQL Server, MySQL, Postgres and MongoDB.  • Strong Experience and understanding of software development life cycles (SDLC) Agile, Waterfall model, Rational Unified Process (RUP)  • Efficient in Identifying Business Requirements, Functional and Non- Functional Requirements.  • Possess a strong analytical, verbal, inter-personal skills that helps in communicating with Developers, team members, writing the reports and test documentation.  • Strong communication skills and ability to work effectively with technical teammates in order to translate business requirements to an effective technical solution. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Java Developer MasterCard - O'Fallon, MO January 2017 to Present Description: Cross-border batch disbursement supports high volume customers as a part of expanding the service to support flows like P2P, B2B, G2C, etc. MC customers are requesting batch file processing capabilities because their business model is more aligned to sending many requests at one time, and at scheduled or periodic times. Batch is the best mechanism to support this business need, but this is not a service that is provided as part of the current offering. The benefit of adding this capability is that it allows us to offer our services to a larger spectrum of potential customers. Larger, potentially more profitable customers, send high volumes of transactions during specific or scheduled times. Smaller, potentially less profitable but still viable, may not want or be able to support the back-end interfaces that are required for API integration and single real-time payments. This initiative is global in nature as it will not be used for a specific customer or region.    Environment: Java 1.8, Spring JDBC, Spring DI, Apache Camel DSL, JAXB, Oracle, Maven, Bamboo, Git, IntelliJ, Rally, Confluence.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on these Apache Camel Components. RouteBuilder, Aggregator, Splitter, Timer, FileGrabber.  • Worked on core java to implement validations for different layers of the request file Physical, Logical, Transfer Request.  • Used Spring DI to inject beans using both constructor and setter Dependency Injection.  • Worked on Spring JDBC to interact with the Oracle database for all the CRUD operations.  • Worked on writing the logic to generate sample Document XML file based on ISO20022 specifications using JaxB. Generated Java classes using the xsd schema.  • Worked on Marshaller component of camel to marshal the java Document object to Response XML file.  • Worked on resolving defects, used IntelliJ debugger tool extensively to analyze the root cause of defects. Used TOAD editor to write queries and filters to verify the CRUD operations as expected.  • Wrote complex SQL queries to query the database in order to fetch the desired result.  • Used Mockito and Junit to write unit test cases to test the functionality as a unit for each method of class.  • Used log4J Logger to log messages at different levels error, debug, warn, info to improve the readability.  • Used Git as the central repository of all the modules. Worked and helped other colleagues too in resolving their merge conflicts.  • Used Rally for the user stories and Confluence to manage the project architecture diagram, Development and Coding Standards and other documentation. Java Developer/Project Analyst Coca-Cola Bottling Companies July 2016 to January 2017 CooleriOt - Web Application  CooleriOt converts existing coolers into smart coolers that are capable of collecting a plethora of information related to the cooler, including but not limited to, its health, stock, and level of consumer engagement. This completely eliminates the need for constant human intervention while simultaneously increasing efficiency and allowing for the creation of an intelligent network of smart coolers that can be managed and monitored remotely    Smart Retailer - Mobile Application  Smart Retailer is a mobile application to engage the Coca-Cola store retailers via gamification. The app uploads the cooler data through the integrated virtual hub. This data is further processed to provide points to the retailers based on various predefined parameters. Apart from the gamification the app also provides some other feature to keep the store retailer engaged.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirement analysis, functional specifications and over-all application design.  • Implemented web interface using Spring MVC  • Developed REST based services using Spring MVC architecture and used JSON for the data transfer  • Worked in core java extensively for developing framework for all tiers by using different frameworks in various layers.  • Coded the main modules from end to end using core java along with the other frame work components.  • Coded the server side business layer and client side server validations using core java  • Coded the data access layer in core java along with the hibernate framework specific java classes  • Worked closely with design, development and QA teams during the development and testing phases.  • Participate in the client meetings and conduct project review meetings.  • Provide necessary Trainings/Product Demo & Manage post-launch issues.  • Defined various scenarios for testing the application and analyzed test cases developed by the QA Team.  • Identifying cross-dependencies of User Stories among different applications.  • Actively participate in SCRUM, stand up, and Sprint planning meetings.  • Interaction with Intake, off-shore development/testing teams and interfaced with business owners.    Environment: Java 1.7, Hibernate 5.0.2, Spring framework, AngularJS, Gulp, JSP, SQL Server, JSON, Maven, Apache Tomcat 8.0, Git, Jenkins Bower, jasmine, Karma. Java Developer (Intern) Netflix - Los Gatos, CA July 2015 to May 2016 Data Processing system ingests, processes, and distributes various metadata of programs and celebrities. The metadata includes Textual data such as titles, descriptions, or reviews of a movie, Images such as posters of a movie, or celebrities' headshots, Numeric values such as stars ratings of movies or shows.  The system automatically selects desired metadata from a group of vendors based on a pre-determined priority list. It distributes the metadata to any system that require metadata.  Role: Software Developer  Responsibilities:  • Built Image resizer module, it accepts the base image and different sizes to be generated by resizer, generates the sizes and persist the image metadata in the database and images on the network file storage.  • Built Image ingestion module, retrieved images from different vendor and persisted into the system.  • Developed Restful Web Services with java using JAX-RS API Spec and Jersey implementation.  • Developed persistence layer using Hibernate to retrieve and update data from MySQL database.  • XML was used to transfer the data between different layers.  • Involved in the development of J2EE/Spring Framework Server Apps for metadata acquisition and distribution.  • Implemented of Spring IOC container.  • Developed the application using Eclipse IDE tool and deployed it on Apache Tomcat.  • Involved in requirements gathering, taking client calls and application support calls.  • Involved in estimation and development of new requirements.  • Documenting requirements, design and development work.  • Responsible for project deliverables.  • Log4j was used to log the events in the application.  • Used Junit for testing the application.    Environment: Java, Hibernate, Spring, JSP, JAX-RS - Jersey, JAXB, MySQL, Maven, Apache Tomcat, Jenkins, Git. Java Developer Pearson Education - Centennial, CO July 2013 to August 2014 NBPTS (National Board for Professional Teaching Standards)  NBPTS project is a web application facilitating US citizens to apply for the NBPTS program. The NBPTS supplies certification program in the field of professional teaching for US citizens. The project involves Spring, JSP and JavaScript for front end implementation that provides superior presentation for user interface. The application uses hibernate to provide easy migration ability over different databases. As well as it employs state of the art security mechanisms that prevent online attacks on sensitive information involved in the transactions.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in complete lifecycle of software development including designing, developing, testing, and deployment of application.  • Developed application using Spring MVC the business layer is built using Spring and the persistent layer uses Hibernate.  • Implemented Core Java concepts to develop robust and scalable application.  • Used Spring dependency injection framework.  • Involved in design of overall application including process flow, database schemas, Hibernate ORM mapping.  • Worked on developing UI components using HTML and CSS.  • Used JavaScript for client side validations.  • Co-coordinating team on integrating different modules.  • Interaction with client on status update, requirement analyzing.  • Responsible for project deliverables.  • Used Eclipse IDE tool for development, build, deployment and testing.  • Used Apache Tomcat Server to deploy the application.  • Used Maven Dependencies to build the application.  • Worked with Log4J effectively for logging messages to the appropriate log files.  • Involved in coding, code reviews, Junit testing, and preparation and execution of Unit Test Case.    Environment: Java, Hibernate, Spring Framework, AngularJS, HTML, CSS, Oracle, Maven, JBoss, Jenkins, SVN. Java Developer NCI - Saint Louis, MI January 2012 to July 2013 Project: GeneConnect  The main goal of GeneConnect is to provide a mapping service which interlinks all approved (by NCCBI) genomic identifiers. To achieve this goal, the GeneConnect application performs the following tasks like an ETL(Extract, Transform, Load) tool to process the annotations, Post processing to calculate all-to-all links, Query Interface, Web Application and API. GeneConnect is one of the caBIG(tm) projects.  Role: Software Developer  Responsibilities:  • Used agile methodology for the software development process.  • Developed application view using JSPs, struts forms beans, JavaScript and CSS.  • Worked on migrating application to support ORACLE database.  • Worked in core java extensively for developing framework for all tiers by using different frameworks in various layers.  • Coded the main modules from end to end using core java along with the other frame works components.  • Coded the server side business layer and client side server validations using core java  • Developed Action classes to handle HTTP client requests by using HTTPServletRequest, HTTPServletResponse, Action Mapping and Action Form objects.  • Coded the data access layer in core java along with the hibernate framework specific java classes  • Used Hibernate for the persistence layer.  • Coded java classes using Eclipse as the IDE.  • Coordinating with the testing team for the Bug clarification.  • Attending status meetings, clarification and technical sessions conducted by the project team.  • Developed different CSS for front-end screens.  • Active member of customer support activities.  • Used Testing for executing the unit test cases.    Environment: Java, JDK1.7, Struts1.3, Hibernate 4.1.9, JSP, JavaScript, JDBC, Oracle 11g, Maven, JBoss 7.2.2 GA, MVC Architect, SVN. Java Developer Brownie Cottage - Chennai, Tamil Nadu August 2010 to January 2012 Project: Kitchen Sense  Kitchen Sense is a suite of software products and specialized solutions for the F&B industry catering to business houses like chain of bakeries, sweet shops, ice cream parlors etc. The major products are  Kitchen Sense POS - POS software made for F&B outlets which runs on standard computers with Microsoft Windows. Ideal for single stores or outlets.  AnswerSmart - Handle home deliveries and answer calls professionally.  Enterprise Solution - In addition to Kitchen Sense POS software, you can track and manage all stores from a central location. It seamlessly integrates all the facets of business from production to sales. Ideal for chain of stores.  Kitchen Sense addresses all the problems mentioned above allowing you to expand your business and your offerings exponentially. Please browse through our Products section to know more about our offerings.  Role: Software Developer  Responsibilities:  • Implemented the MVC design pattern.  • Designed and Developed HTML pages and JSP pages  • Developed and debugging of java files is done using Eclipse IDE.  • Developed a core java framework, which is a base for development of all the modules which uses Servlets, JDBC.  • Designed and developed web based e-forms in JSP to obtain the required information.  • Developed enterprise components that took care of collecting and processing data in core java.  • Developed the java beans classes.  • Developed build script using Maven to build, package, test and deploy application in application server.  • Performed unit testing using Junit.    Environment: Java/J2EE, JSP, Servlet, MySQL, Enterprise Architect, Maven. Sr.ServiceNow Developer Education Masters in Computer Science Silicon Valley University - San Jose, CA 2014 to 2016 Bachelor of Engineering in Electrical and Electronics RGPV University of Bhopal - Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh 2007 to 2011 Bachelor's Bachelor's Bachelor's Bachelor's Skills JAVA (6 years), JSP (5 years), ECLIPSE (4 years), JDBC (4 years), ORACLE (3 years), Rest, Java J2Ee, Spring, J2Ee, Angular, Hibernate, Core Java, Javascript, AWS, Soap, Groovy, JMS, Maven, Restful, API, Hadoop 2x, Apache Spark, Spark-SQL, Dataframes, Scala, HDFS, HIVE, Oozie, Autosys, Oracle, Teradata, Map Reduce, Sqoop, HBase, Shell Scripting, PIG, Core Java, Cloudera Hadoop Distribution, PL/SQL, Toad, Windows NT, LINUX, Selenium WebDriver, Maven, Jenkins, QTP/UFT 12.0, Quality Center 11.5(ALM),JIRA, Bugzilla, ServiceNow, Eclipse, Java, SOAP UI, WSDL builder, GRID, DB2, Oracle, MySQL, VB Script, MS Office, Putty,, Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visualforce (Pages, Components, Controllers & Extensions), Saledforce.com Data Loader, Informatica, Apex Triggers, Reports Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages & Frameworks  Java, Spring, Apache Camel, Hibernate, Spring JDBC, Restful Web Services, JavaScript, AngularJS, Servlets, JSP, HTML, CSS, SQL, PLSQL.    Databases Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL, MongoDB  Operating Systems Windows, UNIX, MacOS  Web/Application Servers Apache Tomcat, JBoss,  Development Tools IntelliJ, Eclipse.  Documentation Tools MS Word, Power Point, Visio, Excel  Build Tools Maven, Ant.  Change Management & Version Control Git