Java J2EE developer <span class="hl">Java</span> J2EE <span class="hl">developer</span> Java J2EE developer - US Bank Oklahoma City, OK Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java J2EE developer US Bank - Portland, OR July 2017 to Present Responsibilities: • Experienced in Agile Methodology, participated in Sprints and daily Scrums to deliver software tasks on-time and with excellent quality on basis with onsite and offshore teams.  • Used HTML5, CSS3, AngularJs and NodeJS for content layout and presentation layer (UI) designing. Used JavaScript, JQuery for client-side validations and AJAX for reports display.  • Extensively used AWS (Amazon Web Services) for integration with Enterprise and web applications.  • Implemented project structure based on spring MVC pattern using Spring boot. Used different type of Spring controllers depending on the business requirement.  • Implementation of Spring security and LDAP integration.  • Development of Spring Boot application with microservices.  • Implemented Microservices architecture to make application smaller and independent.  • Worked with microservices related frameworks Ribbon and Eureka for client-side load balancer and network discovery.  • Implementation of cache as a second level cache in the DAO layer for Hibernate.  • Development of DAO layer using Hibernate Template, JDBC Template and Mongo Operations.  • Used Hibernate Template and Core Hibernate 3.0 in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Implemented REST web services using Jersey with the enabled OAUTH.  • Developed RESTful Web Services to retrieve data from client side using Micro Services architecture.  • Integration with Spring security in web application.  • Development of web modules and middleware components using AWS and Spring integration.  • Implementation of security layer on top internal web applications using JAAS as a POC.  • Composed and executed MongoDB scripts to insert and update NoSQL database; automating data changes and reporting.  • Used JP-QL language as part of the Java Persistence API (JPA) specification to perform transactions with MongoDB.  • Used Docker to containerize the Services and APIs to run on AWS EC2 instances • Created Spring Boot applications testing suite using Spring Junit plugin and Mockito framework.  • Developed end to end application on spring boot framework (RestApi Application/Spring JPA using Crud repository).  • Used Spring Rest Template to use the exposed REST web services.  • Implementation of HTTP Basic Authentication to restrict access by looking up users in plain text password and group files using Apache Mod Auth.  • Created Auto deploy jobs using Jenkins and Maven. Developed Spring DAO templates to all type of CRUD operations • Installed JBoss servers, configured domains for deploying applications.  • Configured and deployed application on JBOSS 7.x server.  • Developed all the Junit test cases for all the different layer implementations • Developed JUnit test cases for Unit Testing and functional testing for various modules and prepared Code Documentation for future reference and upgrades.  • Used Log4j Logger and Debugger to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.    Environment: Java1.7, Java 1.8, Agile,HTML5,CSS3,JSP,JavaScript,Jquery,Angularjs,Nodejs, JSE, Java Beans, Hibernate, JPA, AWS, Microservices, Spring boot, Spring Core, Spring AOP,Restful, XML,Mongo db, WebLogic, JUnit, jQuery, JSON, Log4j, Jenkins, Unix, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, Apache HTTPD 2.4 Web Server, Postman, JBoss EAP. J2EE developer Meijer - Grand Rapids, MI January 2015 to June 2017 Responsibilities: • Defined and constructed layers, server-side objects and client-side interfaces based on J2EE design patterns, Developed and implemented Swing, spring and J2EE based MVC (Model-View-Controller) framework for the application.  • Designed Prototype and project layout skeletons using ReactJS, JQuery, CSS, and HTML5.  • Developed multiple web-based applications using Java, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML and JavaScript.  • Creating a responsive web application integrating Twitter Bootstrap with AngularJS and media queries.  • Worked with Spring and Hibernate data mapping and implemented the associated business modules integration.  • Used spring dependency injection, annotations and Spring MVC components to implement business layer and navigation part of application   • Worked on Rest Web services as well as Node Rest framework for backend services, used Mongo DB (NoSQL) for database services.  • Worked on SOA Web Services using SOAP with JAX-WS for transmission of large blocks of XML data over HTTP.  • Was part of designing and building micro services using spring boot, spring security and deployed to JSON web token cloud.  • GUI design and development using Java Swing, JFC used for open source web testing.  • Used Active MQ to improve the stability and scaled the system for more concurrent users.  • Wrote SQL queries, stored procedures and enhanced performance by running explain plans.  • Developed UI for internal data aggregation tool using GWT, Smart GWT, Tomcat, RCP&REST services.  • Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information such as payment status report   • Worked on Rest Web services as well as Node Rest framework for backend services, used Mongo DB (NoSQL) for database services.  • Created and configured new JIRA projects and worked with departments to maintain existing JIRA projects   • Used log4j for logging and SVN for version control.  • Used JMeter to test performance of SOAP protocol. Also, used to test performance both on static and dynamic resources using JMeter.  • Followed agile methodology to analyze, define and document the applications to support the functional and business requirements. Coordinated these efforts with the Functional Architects   • Used Junit and TestNG testing Framework as a test runner with Selenium.  • Involved in Requirement, Initial Review meetings with Business Analysts.  • Involved in the entire Life cycle of the project like Analysis, Design and Development and testing phases of the Application.  • Offshore - onsite coordination for project implementation and defect fixes.  • Consumed Restful Services to get user information from WGPR, Envoy and UAM applications for CEO Portal   • Consumed REST Web Service using JAX-RS for Envoy and UAM applications.  • Developed few UI Pages using Spring MVC, JSP.  • Modified existing database structures to support additional features using SQL queries.  • Interacted closely with the QA team to understand and fix issues.  • Performed Unit Testing using JUNIT Framework.  • Actively involved in solving the production defects on priority bases.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Core Java (Multithreading, Collections), JSP 3.0, JSTL, JSON, RESTful Webservices, Spring 4.2.2, Spring MVC4.2.2, Spring AOP, Spring Security, Hibernate 4.3.6, Maven, JDK, RCP, AWS SDK, Ext JS, Git, GWT, Swing, AWS SNS/SQS, hibernate, UML, HTML5, CSS, SASS, RAD 7, WAS 8 WSDL, SDK's, JIRA, JAXB, Linux, JAX-WS, JAX RPC, JMS, JSF, UNIX, Angular JS, React.JS, AJAX, Apache JMeter, JQuery, JUnit, EMR, Oracle 10g. J2EE developer Cap Gemini - Chicago, IL February 2012 to December 2014 • Design & development of E Checklist, a web-based tool that allows loan applications to be electronically completed and submitted to the Private Client Credit Center. This application helps improve efficiencies, reduce costs, and shorten loan processing time.  • Involved in AGILE Methodology process which includes bi-weekly sprint and daily scrum to discuss the design and work progress.  • Developed web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JSP, XML, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS and used tag library.  • Developed Application using Spring and Hibernate, Spring boot and Spring batch.  • Used Spring Framework at Business Tier and Spring's Bean Factory for initializing services.  • Used Spring IOC to inject services and their dependencies.  • Used AJAX, JavaScript and GWT to create interactive user interface.  • Analyzed the Node.JS server structure in legacy project, then mimicked the REST service by using Java JAX-WS API, and did the corresponding configurations.  • Worked with Web services components JAX-RS services and worked with Restful Web services interact with external systems.  • Developed queues using AWS SQS with JMS for services to subscribe and listen events. Implemented logic to listen and to subscribe events.  • Extensively used design patterns like Singleton, Value Object, Service Delegator and Data Access Object.  • Deploying, managing, and operating scalable, highly available, and fault tolerant systems on AWS.  • Created SQL queries, PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Functions for the Database layer by studying the required business objects and validating them with Stored Procedures using DB2. Also used JPA with Hibernate provider.  • Developed server-side scripts in shell to customize GIT and integrate it with tools like JIRA and Jenkins.  • Implemented Swagger for the microservices for Documenting Rest API.  • Performed Test Driven Development (TDD) using JUnit and Mockito.  • Implemented JPA to persist the data into Database and implemented CRUD operations on the data.  • Developed Web Services to communicate to other modules using JSON based Restful.  • Involved in writing Junit test cases for controller classes by using Mockito, Junit Framework.  • Developed test code in Java language using Eclipse and TestNG framework.  • Used Maven tool to build project and JUnit to develop unit test cases.  • Used Log4j framework to log the system execution details to log files.  Environment: Java/J2EE 7, JSF, JSP, Servlets, FTL, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, AWS, SQL, PL/SQL, DB2, Spring, Spring batch, Microservices, Hibernate, JPA, EJB, REST Web Services, Eclipse RCP, SWT, JFace, Log4j, WebSphere, Eclipse, GIT, Mockito, Maven, Grunt, Junit. Java Developer Tech O2 Hyd August 2010 to December 2013 Responsibilities: • Involved in the analysis & design of the application using UML with Rational Rose.  • Utilized Agile SCRUM Methodology (SDLC) and Test Driven Development to managed projects.  • Designed and modified User Interfaces using JSP, JavaScript, CSS and JQuery.  • Created connections to database using Hibernate Session Factory, using Hibernate APIs to retrieve and store data to the database with Hibernate transaction control.  • Expertise in designing and developing enterprise and web applications using Java and J2EE technologies like Core Java, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JNDI, JMS, XML, JUNIT, HTML, JavaScript and CSS.  • Used Web Services-WSDL and SOAP for getting credit card information from patience and used SAX and DOM XML parsers for data retrieval.  • Used Struts Framework for action mappings. Developed and Refracted the Action Servlets and JSPs using Struts following MVC architecture.  • Used Hibernate framework to persist the employee work hours to the database.  • Developed client side and server-side validations using Struts Validators and Java Scripts Validations • Configured Apache HTTP Server and Apache Tomcat Server.  • Involved in designing test plans, test cases and overall Unit testing of the system.  • Developed controllers and actions encapsulating the business logic.  Environment: JSP, Struts, spring, Servlets, Hibernate, JDBC, Weblogic Application Server, XML, XSLT, UML, Apache Axis, HTML, CSS, AngularJS, Agile, Web Services, Eclipse, JUnit, Windows XP, Ajax, MVC and jQuery. Education Bachelor's Skills HTML (8 years), Java (8 years), JavaScript (8 years), JMS (8 years), JSP (8 years), Spring, Java J2Ee, J2Ee, Hibernate, Rest Additional Information SKILLS  • Programming Languages: JAVA, R, Python, SQL.  • Java Technologies: JSP, Servlet, JDBC, JNDI, JMS, RESTful Webservices, Junit.  • Tools: Hibernate, WEKA, Swagger, Jenkins.  • Frameworks: Spring, JPA, Spring Boot, Jersey, Struts.  • Databases: Oracle, MySQL, SQLite, MongoDB.  • Web/App servers: Tomcat, Weblogic, JBoss.  • Web Technologies: XML, HTML, Javascript.  • Environments: Git, SVN, CVS, Eclipse, MAC OS, Windows.