Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - The College Board Reston, VA • Around 8+ years of experience in delivering enterprise solutions in Client /Server, Web based environments and Programming (OOPs with Java). Expertise in conceptualizing, designing and coding technical solutions using Java technologies.  • Solid development experience as a full stack developer, in front-end web design and responsive user interface.  • Solid background in Java concepts like Exception handling, Multi-threading, Synchronization, Collections framework, Java Beans and MVC Design Patterns.  • Experience in developing the components using advanced Java8 concepts like Lambda Expressions ,Stream API and Parallel Streams.  • Expertise in Core Java concepts, such as Object-Oriented Design /Object-Oriented Programming (OOP) skills, Multi-Threading, Generics, Exception Handling, Collections, Java Reflection, Annotation and some other features in Java 7/6.  • Strong experience creating web applications using MEAN stack consisting of Angular JS, Node JS, MongoDB and Express JS along with HTML5/HTML, CSS3/CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX.  • Experience in working on various Spring modules (Spring Core, Spring MVC,Spring Boot, DAO and AOP), along with Hibernate as the back-end ORM tool for implementation of persistence layer , Microservices using Spring and mapping of POJOs.  • Experienced in writing SQL queries, Procedures, Functions, Triggers.  • Proficient in implementing Single page applications using Angular JS along with custom directives, UI routing and filters.  • Used a full complement of Angular 5, Node.js, and MongoDB stack to store and present assessments. Proficient in implementing Single page applications using Angular JS /Angular 5 along with custom directives, UI routing and filters.  • Developed features and modules using JavaScript and component-based Typescript Modules.  • Experience developing SPA web UI using Angular5, typescript 1.8.  • Experience creating responsive web applications using media queries and Bootstrap CSS3.  • Strong experience creating UI reports by integrating D3.js.  • Proficient in consuming and producing RESTful web services using Rest API and NodeJS.  • Development experience using databases like MySQL, Oracle database 11g and MongoDB.  • Experience using open source code testing tools such as JUnit, Jasmine Test Framework.  • Hands-on experience deploying applications using Jenkins.  • Well versed on working on PostGre DB.  • Experience with version control tools GIT, Bitbucket and SVN.  • Proficient in software documentation and technical report writing.  • Experienced in building applications for the cloud using Amazon Web Services (AWS). Deploying on EC2 instances and connecting to the Databases on RDS. Configuring AWS Security Groups and Elastic IPs.  • Experience with Elastic Block Storage (EBS), S3 and Elastic Load Balancing (ELB).  • Used Springboot for Microservices.  • Robust technical knowledge in Java EE, JSP, JDBC, Hibernate.  • Experience working on scalable environment using Agile/SCRUM, Test driven development (TDD) methodologies.  • Strong experience in software development life cycle (SDLC) including requirement gathering, analysis, design, development, Integration, testing, implementation of Web based enterprise applications.  • Used GIT version control system to check-in and check-out and review using pull requests. Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer The College Board - Reston, VA December 2018 to Present The College Entrance Examination Board (CEEB) to expand access to higher education for school students. College Board develops and administers standardized test - SAT and post-secondary education institutions test - PSAT 8,9,10, as part of the college admissions process. Score-Equate is a web-based application developed for the Psychometricians, who will manage test-level analysis processes to ensure the quality, accuracy of test results, test development, test administration, scoring, and reporting processes and practices, including developing and implementing action plans to support a high-quality test.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Brain Storming sessions, Daily Scrum meetings, Sprint planning and estimation of the tasks for the user stories in Agile Environment  • Developed scoring, and reporting application for test centers using Spring MVC, Angular-JS, Angular-UI, Html, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript.  • Used Java 8 Lambda expressions and functional interfaces and Streams API.  • Experience in Core Java concepts such as Serialization, Interfaces and Collection.  • Worked with Bootstrap for compiling CSS, REST API, JavaScript, Typescript and building the System with the convenient methods with Angular 5.  • Developed user stories using Core Java and spring and consumed Rest web services exposed from the profit center.  • Developed JSON syntax storing and exchanging text information.  • Experience developing SPA web UI using Angular 5, typescript 1.8.  • Used a full complement of AngularJS, Node.js, ExpressJS and MongoDB stack to store and present assessments.  • Extensively used Hibernate Relational mappings (One-To-Many, Many-To-Many).  • Designed and developed Message driven beans that consumed the messages from the Javamessage queue. Involved in SQL scripting.  • Developed Web services for sending and getting data from different applications using REST, such as scoring Applications, to calculate and transfer data feeds from Branch Server, then used Jackson for data retrieval.  • Developed the application security using Spring Security and integrated with LDAP and Active Directory.  • Created and injected spring services, spring controllers and DAOs to achieve dependency injection and to wire objects of business classes.  • Used Java Message Service (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information, such as product status report.  • Used Log4J utility to generate run-time logs.  • Used SVN for version control and used eclipse as the IDE for developing the application.  • Analyzed code coverage report from Jenkins to improve code coverage and configured multiple plugins in deploying applications.  • Experience testing JavaScript code - Jasmine and Protractor.  • Used Protractor for end-to-end Angular testing incorporating Jasmine as testing framework.  • Involved in build procedures using webpack and Maven and build the application.  Environment: Java 8, Spring WebMVC , NodeJS, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Jasmine, Webpack, Gradle, REST, Angular JS 5, Bootstrap ,jQuery, AJAX, Apache Tomcat, ExpressJS, Putty, Protractor, Spring, Spring AOP, Spring Security, Spring Integration, Hibernate, SLF4j Log, SpringORM, JUnit, Jenkins, Agile methodology, Spring Boot, Mockito, JIRA, Agile methodology, Maven, AWS,SQS. Full Stack Java Developer Prudential Financial Services - Newark, NJ August 2014 to December 2018 A financial services company that offers personal and business checking and savings accounts, lending, credit cards, CDs, lines of credit, IRAs, letters of credit, and bill paying services. It also offers commercial, consumer loans and Business Insurance to clients. Customer Insurance Catalog is a web-based application developed for the users. The client can obtain a free insurance quote by furnishing the information such as business history in the given interface.  Responsibilities:  • Designing and implementing the User Interface using Core Java, HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript and Angular JS.  • Used GIT for version control and used intelliJ as the IDE for developing the application.  • Implemented JavaScript for client side validations.  • Implemented AJAX functionality using JSON, JQuery and XML.  • Extensively worked on Hibernate Cache, Query, Criteria and Transactions in secondary project  • Experience with Optimistic Locking, Mappings using Hibernate.  • Involved in developing nightly scheduled jobs using Spring Batch module.  • Involved in raising the Notifications to Oracle 10g Users through Mailing Concept for intimating to start the next process using workflow.  • Involved in writing Restful webservice using Spring Boot Applications.  • Develop core Java programs for all business rules and workflows using spring framework.  • Used Java 8 Lambda expressions and functional interfaces and Streams API.  • Developed Web services for sending and getting data from different applications using REST, such as Loan Applications, to transfer data from Branch Server to Head Office Server, then used Jackson for data retrieval.  • Used Amazon Elastic search service for application monitoring and full-text search.  • Used Amazon SQS queuing service for reliable communication among distributed software components and microservices and used Amazon SNS push notification service for sending individual messages to mobile device users, email recipients and to distributed users.  • Designed and developed a lead tracking system in Eclipse using spring with Maven, Hibernate.  • Used spring framework including spring core/IoC, Spring Web, Spring Security.  • Used Hibernate framework for mapping entities to database tables.  • Back end development and maintenance of websites.  • Responsible for design and developing Persistence classes using Hibernate and Spring JDBC Template frameworks to save data in database tables.  • Designed and implemented stored procedures views and other application database code objects.  • Maintained SQL scripts indexes and complex queries for analysis and extraction.  • Added database function with Spring Hibernate and JPA, to create add, update and delete function.  • Experience in working with the RESTful web services.  • Developed web application using Spring Framework with MVC design pattern  • Experience working on scalable environment using Agile/SCRUM, Test driven development (TDD) methodologies.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular JS, XML, jQuery, RESTful, Design Patterns, Java 8, MongoDB, Express, NodeJS, HTML5, CSS3,Hibernate, JavaScript, Jasmine, Gulp, Bower, Angular JS, Bootstrap, Protractor, Spring, Typescript, Angular2 ,JUnit, Jenkins, Agile methodology Spring Boot, JUnit, Mockito, Agile methodology, AWS, Apache Tomcat, MEAN stack. Full Stack Java Developer Cigna - Bloomfield, CT March 2010 to August 2014 Cigna is an American worldwide health services organization based in suburban Bloomfield, Connecticut. Its insurance subsidiaries are major providers of medical, dental, disability, life and accident insurance and related products and services, the majority of which are offered through employers and other groups (e.g. governmental and non-governmental organizations, unions and associations).  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for design and development of the web pages from mock- ups.  • Utilized modular structure within the Angular JS application in which different functionalities within the application were divided into different modules.  • Developed a single page, cross-device/cross-browser web application for real-time location sharing utilizing, Angular JS JavaScript API.  • Developed code to call the web service/APIs to fetch the data and populate on the UI using JQUERY/AJAX.  • Involved in Migrating the JDBC Code into Hibernate and implemented various features using Collection APIs.  • Extensively used Java Multi-Threading concept for downloading files from a URL.  • Developed Core Java classes and methods for handling data from databases.  • Developed, implemented, and maintained an asynchronous, AJAX based rich client for improved customer experience.  • Promoted code readability and efficiency by peer-reviewing.  • Used Bootstrap to develop responsive views.  • Implemented Log4J 1.2 for Logging Errors, debugging and tracking using loggers, appenders.  • Involved in Core Java coding by using Java APIs such as Collections, Exception Handling, Generics, Enumeration, and Java I/O to fulfill the implementation of business logic  • Participated in development of a well responsive single page application using Angular JS framework and JavaScript in conjunction with HTML5, CSS3 standards, with front-end UI team.  • Used SVN for version control and used eclipse as the IDE for developing the application.  • Developed front end UI using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, JavaScript, AJAX and spring for back-end development.  Environment: Mongo DB, Express JS, Angular JS, Node JS, Bootstrap, HTML, AJAX, Spring, Spring MVC, Maven, Jenkins, Rest API, JMS, Java, J2EE design patterns, CSS, Oracle, SQL, Web Logic Server 8.1, EC2, CloudWatch, Oracle 8i, SQS, ELB, RDS. Education Bachelor's Skills C++, Case tools, Gradle, Html, Javascript, Json, Orm, Python, Scripting, Subversion, Svn, Visio, Xml, Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, J2se, Hibernate, Spring, Jax Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Programming JDK 1.5, 1.6, 1.7, 1.8, C, C++.  J2SE Collections, Generics, Multi-Threading, Exception Handling, Serialization.  J2EE Technologies Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JDBC, RMI, EJB, SOAP, REST, WSDL.  Markup/XML Technologies HTML, HTML 5, XHTML, JavaScript, Angular JS 1.x/2.x/4.x, CSS, XML, AJAX, JQuery, JSON, Python, Node JS, React JS.  Tools & Frameworks MVC, Spring, Hibernate, JUnit, EJB 2.x/3.x, JMS, GWT, Apache Camel, Gradle, JIRA, Crucible, Subversion, Github, CVS Perforce.  Web Services SOAP, RESTful, WSDL, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS JAX-WS JAXB, Axis2, CFX,  Web/App Servers Web Sphere 7.0, Apache, Tomcat 5.4/4.x, JBoss 4.3/3.2, JBoss EAP 5.x/4.3  Database Oracle 9i/10g, SQL Server, HSQLDB, PostgresSQL, DB2, MongoDB, MySql.  IDE's Eclipse, Spring Tool Suite(STS), NetBeans, RAD.  Modelling/CASE Tools Rational Rose, MS Visio Professional, ArgoUml.  OS & Environment Windows, Linux, UNIX.  Platforms Windows 2000/NT/ XP/Vista and Sun Solaris 2.8/2.9, UNIX, MVS  Server Scripting JSP1.2,2.1, Custom Tags, NodeJS  Client Scripting JQuery 1.8,1.9, JQueryUI, Dojo, AngularJS, JavaScript, CSS2, CSS3, HTML4, HTML5  Version Control Tortoise SVN, Rational Clearcase, GitHub, CVS.  Server Build Tools Maven, Gradle  ORM Frameworks Hibernate 3.0, 3.1, and 4.1.  Defect Tracking JIRA, Bugzilla, Infra, RationalClearQuest, HP Quality Center, BMC Remedy.