Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - Newmont Seattle, WA * A competent professional with 8+ years of experience in Software design, development and maintenance of client-server business, web-based and standalone applications using Java 8, Java EE 7, Hibernate 5.0.1, Spring 4.1.5, XML 1.1 and Web Services with excellence in analytical and people skills.  * Extensive experience indeveloping JAVA based applicationsusing JAVA, JEE, JDBC, EJB, Servlets, JSP, JSF, JMS.  * Proficient in various Agile methodologies like Test Driven Development (TDD), SCRUM, Pair Programming and Waterfall software development processes.  * Experience in Front-End UI technologies like HTML5, CSS, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, Node JS, Angular JS, React JS, Backbone JS, Bootstrap, Tag Libraries, JSTL.  * Experience in databases such as Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server.  * Experience in configuring, deploying the web applications on Apache Tomcat 7.x,6.x,5.x,4.x Oracle/BEA WebLogic 9.x/8.x/7.x/6.x, IBM Web Sphere 6.x/5.x/7.0, JBoss servers.  * Very good understanding of Object-OrientedDesign (OOD), DesignPatterns, J2EE Design Patterns, MVC, Struts multi-tier architectures and distributed architectures.  * Good experience in development and Support of Java/J2EE Web applications with emphasis on OOP-based web forms, business logic, database access components.  * Experience in Core Java, Multithreading and Design Patterns.  * Expert in Technical skills encompass Web services (SOAP,RESTFUL), ORM, XML, JSON, HTML 5.0, DHTMLX, UML, ANT, JSTL Apache Log4J,Shell script, AngularJS, NodeJS, Maven, Java Script.  * Hands on experience with version control systems like GIT, Subversion (SVN), CVS, Clear case for providing common platform for all the developers.  * Hands-on experience in developing applications in Spring Framework using (Spring Core, Spring MVC, DAO, Spring ORM, Spring Security, Spring Batch, Spring Integration, Spring Boot, Spring Ribbon, Spring Cloud, Spring Cloud Data Flow) Inversion Control and Dependency Injection of Spring Application Frame work.  * Developed applications using latest technologies like EJB3.0, Hibernate3.2/4.x, Spring2.x/3.x/4.x, and REST based Web services (axis2.0, JAX-WS 2.0, JAX-RS 2.1) XML, API and tools.  * Developed Microservices with Spring MVC, Spring Cloud, Spring Boot, Spring AOP, DI  and JPA to develop loosely coupled process.  * Experience in all stages of testing namely Functional testing, Performance testing, Integration testing, Regression testing and User Acceptance testing.  * Hands-on experience in IDE Tools: Eclipse, MyEclipse, IBM RAD.  * Adhered to CMM Level 5 & ISO 9001 Quality Processes and followed the documentation in all the phases of SDLC.  * Experience in Hibernate which includes integrating legacy databases, writing custom CRUD statements, integrating stored procedures and functions and performed polymorphic associations.  * Worked on many Operating system environments including Windows 95/ 98/ NT/ XP/ 2000 Server, UNIX (including Sun Solaris), some flavors of LINUX.  * Hands on experience in working on XML Suite of technologies (XML, XSD, DTD, XML Schema, DOM).  * Experienced in RDBMS Design, ER modeling, SQL, PL/SQL, procedures, cursors, functions, triggers.  * Expertise in using Apache Ant, Maven as java build tools.  * Experience in Cloud Computing Platforms like Microsoft Azure and AWS Server for building, deploying and managing applications and services.  * Experienced in working with applications deployed to AWS cloud and hands on experience using AWSmanagement console and SDK to interact with AWS services.  * Experience working as an individual contributor and as a team member coordinating with other team members possessing excellent technical background, communication, interpersonal and presentation skills. Very quick at learning new technologies & frameworks. Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer Newmont - Denver, CO February 2017 to Present Responsibilities  • Interacted with the BusinessAnalysts to gather the required Functional Specification Documents for the project.  • Actively involved in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as Modeling, Analysis, Design, Development. Involved completely in Agile approaches, Including Test-Driven Development (TDD) and Scrum.  • Participated in daily standups, sprint reviews, Kickoffs for project management.  • Developed the UI modules using JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, jQuery,XSL/XSLTand AJAX.  • Developed multiple enterprise applications using Hibernate framework, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring JDBC, Spring Annotations, Spring AOP, Spring Integration, frameworks, RESTful webservices.  • Created and injected Spring services, Spring controllers and DAO's to achieve dependency injection and to wire objects of business classes.  • Integrated Single sign on using LDAP and Active directory on Spring security layer, successfully maintained users and groups integrity in the application.  • Exposed Stateless session beans as SOAP, RESTful web services using JAX-WS, JAX-RS. Implemented Angular promises to handle asynchronous communication with our RESTful API for various requirements.  • Developed classes using core java concepts like Multithreading, Exception Handling, and Collections.  • Defined Hibernate Named Queries for performing batch while defined Criteria Queries for Microservice.  • Used Drupal, a robust web content management platform to provide rapid development and delivery of flexible and secure websites.  • Used Spring Boot, Spring Security to build Microservices and deployed to AWS cloud.  • Used Spring Cloud AWS Core, Spring Cloud AWS Context, and Spring Cloud AWS Messaging.  • Extensively worked on writing complex PL/SQL Queries using joins, stored procedures, Functions, Triggers, Views, Cursors, MaterializedViews, dB links, External views, indexes in Oracle DB&SQL tuning to reduce time in the application.  • Designed and developed the back-end applications and did some test-case debugging with code coverage as well as runtime debugging with IntelliJ Idea IDE.  • Used Ionic, open source SDK for hybrid mobile application development using Angular JS and Apache Cordova.  • Involved in developing application using Postgresqland wrote queries to test the data thatwas sent through the API call.  • Used Jenkins build for building and deploying of the applications and implemented force builds when the build fails.  • Responsible for debugging, testing, maintaining and deploying the application and used log4j for tracking errors and debugging the code. Created test cases to test spring services using JUnit and Mockito frameworks.  • Implemented the annotations to support the APIs for Audit Logging purposes by making configurations in the properties file which routes the logs to RabbitMQ server.  • Version control was mandated through GitHub.    ENVIRONMENT: Java 1.8, ReactJS, Spring, Maven, JUnit,Mockito, Node.js npm,Agile Scrum, Tomcat server, RabbitMQ RESTful Webservices, JPA, JavaScript, XCode, Apache CXF, Hibernate, JMS, PostgreSOL, Ionic, IntelliJ IDEA, GitHub, AOP, Log4J, AWS. Full Stack Java Developer UBS - Weehawken, NJ September 2015 to January 2017 Responsibilities  • Developed the User Interface Screens for presentation using Angular-JS, Ajax, Bootstrap, Java Script and HTML.  • Developed Spring AOP aspects for logging and exception handling and involved in integrating Spring with Hibernate.  • Creating the project startup UI i.e. generic XHTML facelet templates, generic JSF validators and converters, backing beans, Facescontextutil methods etc.  • Extensively used Twitter Bootstrap to develop front end of the application.  • Integrated Tiles 3 frameworkwith Spring MVC to simplify the development of User Interface.  • Reviewed and analyzed online banking/ ACH transactions to determine fraud activity.  • Executed and performed client services which included; client calls, transaction processing, inquiry response/ research, account maintenance and analyzing customer questions, requests and problems.  • Executed and performed the day-to-day resolutions of complex problems and escalated client complaints.  • Responsible for training and assisting all team members with claims and handling difficult calls.  • Hands on experience in business rules discovery, rules harvesting and rule development in ODM.  • Involved in designing and building Domain Models, Java Execution Models and Business Object Models for Business Rules and events Applications.  • Implemented operational decision manager application programming interface.  • Implemented Spring Security with interceptor features to provide Authentication and Authorization for log in functionalities.  • Used React.js, which allowed us to render pages on both the client and server using the codebase.  • Developed various web pages and components using React JS by implementing Redux components and libraries and predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager).  • Build stable React JS components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  • Developed some part of the application using Spring-MVC and IOC/Dependency Injection integrating different layers of the application.  • Implemented Backup and restore procedures and developed scripts for backing up TAM/TDS components  • Defined Object Relational Mapping for Hibernate and performed spring integration with Hibernate for data access.  • Created user roles and groups for securing the resources using Tivoli Directory Server  • Monitored and supported all production applications and resolved any infrastructure issues encountered.  • Developed Spring AOP aspects for logging and exception handling and involved in integrating Spring with Hibernate.  • Expertise in using Named queries to pull all HQL data using annotations.  • Involved in designing and implementation of MVC design pattern using Struts framework for web-tier.  • Designed and developed UI screens with JSF to provide interactive screens to display data for provider module.  • Wrote code for consuming a Restful Web service with AngularJS.  • Extensively used/modified JQUERY to perform AJAX calls for creating interactive web pages on JSON response.  • Performed indexing and searching on large documents using Apache Lucene.  • Expertise in Database application programming for Oracle, PostgreSQL server using Stored Procedures, Triggers, Views etc.  • Used JMS ( Java Messaging Service) for asynchronous communication between different modules.  • Generated a complete maven project structure and added dependencies, plugins to pom.xml.  • Worked on providing authorization and authentication to applications using Spring security and protected the application against attacks like session fixation and clickjacking.  • Implemented Java Persistence API (JPA) through Hibernate.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4J and fixed the problems.  • Learned and implemented Java design patterns like Front Controller,Service Locator, Business Delegate, Data access Object, Factory Pattern, Session Façade, etc.  • Developed scripts using Python scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks and used GitHub repository to run the Jenkins job for Continues Integration.  • Used transaction Management to coordinate transactions among various resources in the application.  • Developed dynamic templates and Servlets and provide excellent application management capabilities.  • Used Web Services to exchange information. Used SOAP framework and WSDL.  • Parsed XML&JSON responses received in Java code through Web Services  • Managed and administered workloads, server groups and clones in WebSphere Application Server. Created, configured and administered Profiles, several Clusters, Nodes and Node Groups for WebSphereApplicationServer.    ENVIRONMENT: Agile, Java/J2EE, Spring 4x, Spring Boot, Hibernate 4.3, Spring AOP, Spring, JMS, Web Logic 10.3, Angular JS, MongoDB, Oracle 11g, XML, Docker, SAX, ODM, JSF, Redux, React Js JAXB, WSDL, TAM,SOAP, REST, Java Script Es6, Bootstrap, SASS, JQuery, Gradle, AJAX, HTML5, CSS3, Gradle, RESTful, Perl,Bash Full Stack Java Developer Fifth Third Bank - Cincinnati, OH May 2014 to August 2015 Responsibilities  • Followed Agile Software Development Methodology.  • Developed various screens that checks summons using Struts framework and Tiles.  • Used Struts2 framework and J2EE components to develop Action classes, frontend validations, complex reports and database interaction.  • Designed various grid panels and various UI components using EXT JS framework and JQUERY.  • Designed and developed the UI components using JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, jQuery and AJAX.  • Used Backbone.js to develop the front-end of the application.  • Used Tiles Framework for Presentation layer and Validation Framework for validations.  • Developed the application using Struts Framework, developed action classes, form beans and Struts-Tiles.  • Wrote various Struts Framework Action classes for interfacing with the business logic, form beans for presenting the data to JSPs.  • Deployment of Application in the JBoss Server environment using ANT tool using Struts architecture with theJSP Client.  • Implemented the persistence layer using Hibernate and configured Hibernate with Spring to interact with the Database from the DAO.  • Developed Hibernate mapping files using different mapping strategies such as table per class hierarchy.  • Used Hibernate, Object Relational-Mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data  representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational Data Model with a SQL-based  schema.  • Developed HQLs and Named Queries and wrote Data Access Object (DAO) to handle HQL queries.  • Used Web Services - WSDL and SOAP for client side for exchange rate calculation.  • Used Apache CXFtiles framework with struts to reduce the redundancy between JSP pages and used struts for implementing business model logic.  • Coded different action classes in struts responsible for maintaining deployment descriptors like struts-config.xml and web.xml for global forwards, error forward and action forwards.  • Designed and developed the project using Struts MVC design pattern and used Struts-Validator frame-work for all front-end Validations for all the form entries.  • Extensively worked with Oracle database, created and worked with various database objects like Packages, Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Views, Materialized Views, Database Links, external tables,Materialized Views etc.  • Used Maven for application build and war file generation.  • Creating environment for user-acceptance testing and facilitating Integration and User Acceptance Testing with JUNIT.  • Developed and tested the applications on JBoss Application Server.  • Code Reviews, customization and maintenance of code across applications.  • Responsible for release of code into production and its integration with other Applications.  • Identifying and developing test cases and test scripts to perform load tests for Performance and regression testing.    ENVIRONMENT: Java 8, J2EE, Struts 2.0, Eclipse, JSF2.1, Spring MVC, Spring Security, Spring AOP, Spring Transactions, Spring ORM, Hibernate3.0, Apache CXF, Spring WS, JAX-WS, XML, XSLT, JSP, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML, CSS, AngularJS, Backbone.js, JUnit, Oracle 11g, Maven, JBoss. Java/ J2EE Developer Cisco - San Jose, CA November 2012 to April 2014 Responsibilities  • Developed the application using MVC-1 Architecture using JSP 1.7, Servlet2.5 and EJB2.0.  • Participated in client requirement gathering in SCRUM environment.  • Developed Class diagrams, Sequence Diagrams using UML 1.1.  • Preparation of Low level Design document which include program specification and unit test plan.  • Developed HTML 2.0 and JSP 1.7 pages for user interaction and data presentation.  • Used JavaScript 1.5 in applications outside of web pages like PDF documents, site - specific browsers and desktop widgets.  • Defined the presentation semantics of the document written in a markup language using CSS 2.  • Used the data binding, workbench and update manager of the Eclipse RCP 3.x.  • Developed JSPs 1.7 to implement the business logicand used Java Beans 2.0 to retrieve the data.  • Coded Enterprise Java Beans 2.0, which implemented business rules and business logic.  • Developed the Java 1.3 classes and JavaBeans 2.0.  • Created tables in the Oracledatabase 7.  • Deployed the application (EAR) on WebLogic Application Server v8 using Eclipse 3.1 as IDE.  • Performed Unit Testing and Integration Testing of the application using JUnit 3.7.  • Used CVS 1.10 for source code version control.  • Supported Maintenances and bug fixes.    ENVIRONMENT: Core Java (J2EE 1.3), JSP 1.7, JavaBeans 2.0, JavaScript 1.5, Servlets 2.5, UML 1.1, JUnit 3.7, CVS 1.10, EJB 2.0, CSS 2, HTML 2.0, Oracle 7, Eclipse RCP 3.x, Apache Tomcat Web Server v7.0, WebLogic Application Server v8.0, Eclipse IDE 3.1. Java/J2EE Developer Simplion Solutions - IN August 2011 to July 2012 Responsibilities  • Interacted with business users extensively and created design document and functional specification using rational tool.  • Used Eclipse for Java code development.  • Resolved and worked on troubleshooting the problems and fixed the bugs by utilizing Java and XSLT.  • Created XSLT style sheets for the XML data transformations that included both mid-layer transformations (XML to XML) and final transformations (XML to HTML).  • Worked with Maven integration plug-in for Eclipseand deployed the project on Tomcat.  • JUnitTest cases for each case in specific modules to test the functionality.  • Used CognosConnection extensively for organizing, security, scheduling and distributing reports.  • Used Cognos Software for flexible deployment and better business outcomes.  • Involved in the user interface development using JSP, HTML, CSS, JSTL and JavaScript.  • Worked closely with customer support to help fix bugs.  • Used CVS as source Version control.  • Followed IDP process during development with iterations.  • Coordinated with QA during testing phase and helped resolve bugs.    ENVIRONMENT: Java SDK 1.5, JSP, Servlets 2.x, EJB, JDBC, Cognos, JUnit, XML, UML, Tomcat 4.x, Toad 3.x. Education Bachelors in Engineering CS Maharshi Dayanand University Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Java technologies