Full stack Java Developer Full stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full stack Java Developer - CPA Global Novi, MI • Over 5 years of professional experience as a Full Stack Developer ( Java) in analysis, design, development, implementation and troubleshooting various web-based applications  • Experienced in design, development of web-based applications using servers such as Apache Tomcat 8.0 and JBOSS  • Skillful in handling unit testing using Junit, Jasmine along with Test-Driven Development (TDD) methodology  • Good knowledge in developing Single Page Applications (SPA) using JavaScript MVC frameworks such as Angular 4.  • Experience in web development with HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, Angular, jQuery, Bootstrap, JSON, XML, XSLT, XSD, WSDL.  • Worked upon Services, Components and Routing in Angular  • Expertise in developing SOAP, RESTful Webservices and APIs with JSON and XML  • Experienced working in Agile-based SDLC environment and participating in different Scrum sessions  • Strong domain knowledge in E-commerce and Banking domain.  • Experience in Software Development Life Cycle (Proposal, Process Engineering, Design, Development, Testing, Deployment and Support)  • Experience in Core Java and Java platform with Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Multithreading, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, JAX-RS.  • Good experience working on Hibernate Beans & HQL to map to tables and retrieve data from the database  • Expert in version control tools like GIT and SVN; build tools like Maven and Gradle; continuous integration tools like Jenkins, and issue-tracking platform like JIRA  • Developed logging module using Log4J to create log files to debug and trace application  • Excellent analytical, problem solving and communication skills  • Experienced in project management activities like team coordination, schedule preparation and estimation. Good in communicating with Clients, Customers, Managers and other teams in the enterprise at all levels.  • Ability to learn quickly in work environment, excellent written and verbal communication skills, presentation and problem-solving skills. Good team player, ability to work in fast paced environment. Work Experience Full stack Java Developer CPA Global - Southfield, MI April 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML file that contains declarations and another dependent object declaration.  • Implemented Model View Controller (MVC) architecture using Spring Boot framework.  • Involved in various SDLC phases like requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Involved in creating and Deployment of REST API and Microservices in J2EE using Spring Boot.  • Configured the Hibernate configuration files to persist the data to the Oracle 11g Database.  • Used Maven as a build tool and retrieved all the dependencies required for the application.  • Performed the ORM mappings to map Java entities to database tables and Hibernate Criteria SQL queries for data retrievals.  • Used Hibernate to extract and query data from MYSQL database.  • Used Log4j framework to log/track application.  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Angular, AJAX.  • Applied React JS to build reusable component for quickly rendering webpages and make them more efficient to responsive to user request.  • Implemented SOA architecture with web services using JAX-RS (REST) and JAX-WS (SOAP)  • Used SQL stored procedures for applications that needed to execute as part of a scheduling mechanisms.  • Used NPM for installing required node modules and other published Angular NPM modules.  • Worked with Angular CLI for creating Components, Services, Pipes, Directives.  • Experience with the features of Angular 4 such as directives, modules and routing.  • Used Angular 4 router to build single page application for navigate through the different status and multiple modules.  • Involved in Code reviews for other modules developed by peers. Used GIT for Version Controlling.  • Designing and establishing the process and mapping the functional requirement to the workflow process.  • Developed automated tests using Selenium WebDriver with developers for Continuous integration regression testing (Jenkins) and reducing manual testing using Selenium, TestNG and Maven.  • Followed agile methodology and SCRUM meetings to track, optimize and tailored features to customer needs.  • Part of production support team to resolve the production issues.    Environment: Eclipse, Java JDK, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Web services, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Typescript, Angular 2, React, NPM, Bootstrap, jQuery, REST, JSON, GIT Repository, Apache Tomcat, Maven, log4j. Java Developer Schneider Electric - Franklin, TN June 2016 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in designing Spring MVC application and Hibernate to design module structure  • Developed Data layer using Hibernate framework, configured XML mapping files, wrote POJO classes and SQL stored procedures  • Responsible to create DAO CRUD methods using Hibernate & Spring framework  • Worked on Angular 2 Service which interacts with RESTful services at backend  • Transform business requirements and needs into specific technical assignments for projects, with enough detail as required by subsystem developers.  • Developed various modules using design patterns such as Factory and Singleton.  • Used Maven to add dependencies required for the project  • Worked on JUnit for unit testing of the application  • Involved in writing and maintaining a Technical Low-Level Design document, which contains modules to be implemented, program development, logic, coding and testing scenarios.  • Used GIT for version control and Eclipse IDE for development  • Collaborated for Angular 2 Components which takes care of view part of the application  • Made sure Routing in Angular 2 application is appropriate which helps wiring views together  • Implemented multi-threading to handle synchronization for users accessing modules  • Tested Rest APIs in Spring-Controller at backend for JSON data using Postman  • Used Spring Boot at backend which helps to develop application with ease  • Used Tomcat server for application deployment  • Used JIRA to handle software development issues    Environment: Spring, SQL, Hibernate, Maven, Eclipse, JIRA, GIT, Angular 2, HTML5, CSS3, Tomcat, JUnit, Agile, Postman Junior Java Developer Smart Soft MLM Solutions April 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed Web services to allow communication between application through SOAP over HTTP.  • Used SVN as a version control tool.  • Used Hibernate for persistence framework, involved in creating DAO's and used Hibernate for ORM mapping.  • Participated in the gathering of functional requirements.  • Participated in development, testing and implementation of the application software development using Java technologies. Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing Spring architecture and Hibernate.  • System built using Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture. Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several design patterns such as Singleton, Data Access Object (DOA)  • Develop, document and execute unit and integration tests.  • Interpret business requirements and identify solutions to meet business objectives.  • Adapt and implement software development standards and best practices.  • Communicate progress to learn lead as well as with the other team members    Environment: Java SE 7, J2EE, Spring MVC, Spring JPA, Hibernate, Jersey Rest Services, Oracle 11g, SQL, Eclipse, Maven, Apache Tomcat Software Engineer Sesillis Software Solutions May 2013 to March 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in coding, maintaining, and administering Servlets and JSP components to be deployed on a Tomcat application server with MySQL.  • Designed and Developed Web pages with the help of HTML, CSS, JavaScript and AJAX.  • Involved in various stages of SDLC in both production and development environments.  • Designed end-to- end controller modules using core Java and collections framework.  • Extensively worked on SQL queries and PL/SQL stored procedures to perform CRUD operations in DAO layer.  • Provided support during unit / system / load / performance testing. Involved with load testing to identify performance issues.    Environment: Java/J2EE, Servlets, JSP1.2, JDBC, JavaScript, MySQL, PL/SQL, Eclipse, HTML, CSS, Tomcat 5.0, and AJAX Education M.S. in Information Security System Cumberland's University B.E in Computer Science Engineering JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills ECLIPSE (5 years), JAVA (5 years), TOMCAT (5 years), J2EE (4 years), XML (3 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Programming Languages Java JDK 1.8/1.7, J2EE,  Java/J2EE Technologies Restful, SOAP web services, JSP, Servlets 2.3/2.4, JNDI, Microservices  Framework and Tools Spring, Hibernate, Spring boot, Ant 1.6.2, Maven, Junit, Selenium, TestNG  Application Servers IBM Web Sphere 7.0, Web Logic 8.1, Apache Tomcat, JBOSS  Database Oracle, MySQL, Postgres  Platforms Windows10, UNIX, LINUX  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript, AngularJS, Angular2, Angular 4, React  Development Tools Eclipse, IntelliJ