Full stack Java Developer Full stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full stack Java Developer - Deloitte • Around 7+ years of experience in IT industry in analysis, design, development, and, integration of large client-server and web-based applications.  • Extensive knowledge and exposure in web based multi-tier and client/server Web Applications Development using HTML 4.01/5, CSS (2/3), XHTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, Node.js, J-Query, AJAX, XML and JSON.  • Experience in working with AngularJS, Angular Flux, and Redux architecture using complex object-oriented concepts in improving the performance of websites  • Experience in Spring boot, Restful Webservices, Microservices, Groovy.  • Involved in creating unit test cases using Jasmine.  • Professional in creating Templates, Mockups and Prototypes, Web Interfaces, Layouts and Flow of Future Pages.  • Experienced in developing applications using MVC architecture.  • Experienced in various IDEs like IntelliJ, Sublime Text, Adobe Dreamweaver, Microsoft Visual Studio and WebStorm.  • Expertise in React Js framework to develop the SPA.  • Expertise in React Js and working with React Flux architecture.  • Expertise in creating Custom Reusable React Components Library Strictly followed angular 2.0 design features such as simplicity, fewer columns, separate top sections, fonts, simple navigation, logos, gradients, reflections and more.  • Experience in designing websites with W3C standards using HTML4/5, CSS2/3 to get best cross-browser user experience for long-term user retention and engagement.  • Extensive experience in various UI widgets using JavaScript libraries J-Query and developing Rich Internet Applications RIA.  • Hands on experience in Developing Cloud native Microservices utilizing Spring Boot, Spring MVC, REST using Test Driven Development.  • Good Experience in Angular Js for creating interactive UI's using One-way data flow, Virtual DOM, JSX, Angular Native concepts.  • Experience in working on LINUX and UNIX OS.  • Experienced with JDBC API to call SQL Queries and Stored Procedures in the Database.  • Managed risk analysis and mitigation plans, status/defect reports, and client presentation.  • Experience in working with Angular.js, Angular 2.0 and 4.x.  • Up to date knowledge with the latest industry trends in UI design and usability.  • Great ability to write clear, maintainable, well-documented, well- commented and efficient code for web development. Work Experience Full stack Java Developer Deloitte - Mechanicsburg, PA May 2019 to Present Roles & Responsibilities:  • Experience in Vue. JS for building apps and declarative templates with data-binding, created some custom directives in the application. Experience in writing AngularJS code and familiar with jQuery libraries.  • Solved data issue using DOM update cycle with Vue. js.  • Resolved form validation with Vue Validate. Used Vue.js events distribution and parent chain for parent-child component communication.  • Manipulated DOM, handled events and applied animation effects with Vue.js.  • Built single page application using Vue.js components.  • Extensive knowledge in working with JAVA EE technologies such as JSP, Servlet 3.0, Struts2, Spring MVC 5.X, IOC, Spring Security 5.X, Spring Boot 2.X, Spring Core Container, Spring AOP,  Spring ORM, Spring Data and Spring Cloud. Automatically updated table data with Vue data binding.  • Experience with Amazon Web Services like EC2, S3, SQS, EBS, IAM, Cloud Watch, RDS, VPC, Security groups, API Gateway, Simple Notification Services.  • Professional in handling different phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as per Agile methodology.  • Experience in Jenkins integration service for Continuous Integration/Continuous Deployment (CI/CD).  • Experience in creating comprehensive web applications using MEAN stack implemented with MS SQL, Express, Angular 2/4/5 and Node.js, Java 8.  • Used Node Package Manager (NPM) to install the necessaries packages and used Grunt task runner to start the server and run unit tests.  • The front-end use HTML5, CSS3, React JS, jQuery and Bootstrap to build a web app that communicate with back-end via RESTful API.  • Implemented AJAX call from Angular JS at client to Express JS at Node JS server.    Environment: JavaScript, AngularJS, Bootstrap, Spring, AWS, JMS, RESTful, Multithreading, Mocha, Grunt, Chai, Protractor, Selenium, Karma, Jasmine, Bitbucket, Bamboo, Confluence, STS, WebStorm, Webservices. Java Developer FedEx - Pittsburgh, PA August 2018 to May 2019 Description:  FedEx Corporation is an American multinational courier delivery services company headquartered in Memphis, Tennessee. The name "FedEx" is a syllabic abbreviation of the name of the company's original air division, Federal Express (now FedEx Express).    • Worked in AGILE based development Environment.  • Developed Use Case Diagrams, Object Diagrams and Class Diagrams in UML using Rational Rose.  • Worked on Spring IoC, Spring MVC framework, Spring Messaging Framework and Spring AOP to develop application service components.  • Developed User interface using JSP, Angular JS, JSP Tag libraries, third party libraries and JavaScript.  • Used JavaScript, jQuery and Ajax API for intensive user operations and client-side validations.  • Primarily focused on the spring components such as Spring MVC, Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers, Model and View Objects, View Resolver.  • Identified and created Enterprise Java Beans (EJB)  • Creation of Hibernate mapping files to develop Database tables from Classes and generation of database schema.  • Worked on Angular with TypeScript and other latest client-side technologies including AngularJS, ES6, Gulp, NodeJS, RxJS, Angular CLI, Webpack, Chrome DevTool, Karma and Jasmine.  • Used ES6, JSX with Angular for component development make Angular look more elegant.  • Used Babel.js to trans pile ES6 and JSX into JavaScript  • Used Node.JS, Angular.JS, and SonarQube, MVC framework for developing the Single Page Application (SPA).  • Developed robust form management system with complete CRUD capabilities in Angular Native, Redux, and Firebase  • Involved in the creation of various Data Access Objects (DAO) for addition, modifications and deletion of records using various specification files.  • Used CVS for version control, ClearQuest 2003 for bug tracking along with handling Client change requests and enhancements.  • Modified Log4j for logging and debugging and developed the pom.xml using Maven for compiling the dependencies.    Environment: Java 1.7, JSF 1.2, SSL, Spring 4.0, XML, Oracle 11g, Web Services, Web sphere, SOA, SOAP UI, WSDL 1.1, SAX, JavaScript, jQuery, Maven, HTML, Angular JS, Oracle 11g, JNDI, IBM WebSphere 6.1, CVS 1.1, Log4J 1.2, JIRA 6.3 and JUnit 3.8. Java Full stack Developer Chase - Columbus, OH October 2017 to July 2018 Description:  Chase is a leading global company providing financial products and services all over the world. Worked in Team developing applications using the Java/J2EE specification providing enhancements releases for the Chase.  Roles & Responsibilities:  • Developed the single page application following Agile Scrum, participated in daily standups, sprint reviews, Kickoffs and used Jira for project management.  • Designed and Developed UI for Portfolio Review Dashboard application using AngularJS, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, LESS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Created Custom Directives in AngularJS to make reusable components used in various applications.  • Developed views using Bootstrap components, Angular-UI and involved in configuring routing for various modules using Angular UI router.  • Used React Js in development of the web application to bind the data/model that is being retrieved from a database through services provided in a controller to the view using scope.  • Developed Angular services to make Restful API calls using Http and resource services to post and get data in JSON format.  • Developed REST services using Spring MVC REST and created the application using Spring Boot.  • Used Jackson as the JSON provide to marshal and un-marshal JSON requests and responses  • Used Spring BOOT to create stand-alone spring applications.  • Responsible for creating and maintaining architecture for Restful API using Spring Boot.  • Developed business service layer and data access layer using Spring and Mongo-DB (Spring Mongo-Template). Interacted with Business Users to capture business needs, functional needs, managing expectations, and reviewing deliverables to ensure a successful implementation.  • Involved in doing POC such as MONGODB and Spring Boot Technologies.  • Involved in creating the various user interfaces UI using JSP, JavaScript, and CSS  • Developed all the UI pages using HTML5, JavaScript, AngularJS, CSS, SASS including Ajax controls and JSON.  • Expertise in building strong websites confirming Angular js 2.0 standards using Angular js Framework &CSS- Bootstrap to develop valid code and table-free sites  • Implemented different validation control on the web-pages using Angular Js.  • Used React in the development for data  • Unit testing of the developed modules using SOAP UI & Integration Test client.  • Developed XSDs and WSDLs for SOAP, REST services to support service consumers on various releases/versions.  • Developed a clone of gmap.jp website with an API-first architecture based on API Platform / Symphony using Vue.js as the interface.  • Extensive experience in deploying, managing and developing with MongoDB clusters.  • Responsible for development based on spring boot application for payment processing in the Micro Services Framework.  • Developed user interface by using the React JS, Flux for SPA development.  Implemented client-side Interface using React JS. Created real-time websites with push capability by using Node.js.    Environment: HTML5, Sass, CSS3, jQuery, AJAX, AngularJS 2.0, Chrome Developer tool, Spring Boot 2, Node.js, Grunt, Gulp, Java, Spring, Hibernate, HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, Bootstrap, Node.js, React JS, Jasmine, Karma, Grunt, Ext JS, Typescript, Responsive Design, Photoshop, REST console. Sr. Java Developer Selective Insurance, NJ February 2015 to September 2017 Description:  Selective is a leading insurance organization offering a broad range of insurance products and insurance-related services. Selective Central is designed for agents and brokers who sell selective Commercial Insurance, Personal Insurance, and Business Insurance.  The main goal of this project is to replace its legacy policy and the claims system with the new web-based application. As a UI developer, my role is to redesign old system into a browser-based system. I am working on designing a high profile in house UI application and developing low fidelity and high-fidelity wireframes that demonstrate application screen flow, screen layout, styling and usability features.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Involved in the analysis, design, and development and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  • Web application designing and development using HTML, CSS and AngularJS as per company's standards.  • Strong experience in developing backend using various Spring frameworks features such as Core Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring IOC, Spring Boot, Spring ORM and Spring Security.  • Developed complex, useable, attractive and cross-browser Web interfaces that account for speed, file size, readability and accessibility.  • Successfully implemented Auto Complete/Auto Suggest functionality using AJAX, jQuery, Web Service call and JSON.  • Setting up AWS Oracle RDS databases for new project, use data pump to migrate data to Relational Database Services (RDS). Ran docker compatibility testing on various Linux distros, Amazon(AWS).  • Worked with business analysts to understand their business models and goals and help define strategy, content, and features.  • Built Spring Boot based java microservices to support enterprise web application.  • Added user validations and user permissions by using the Node.js.  • Responsible to manipulate HTML, CSS in J-Query as well as making the pages dynamic using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Wrote code to fetch data from Web services using jQuery, AJAX via JSON response and updating the HTML pages.  • Maximized page load by analyzing content and making adjustments to the code (by following optimization standards). Implemented applications using Bootstrap framework.  • Using AngularJS, created custom directives for data manipulations and to display data in company standard format in UI.  • All the functionality is implemented using Spring IO /Spring Boot and Hibernate ORM  • Worked one-on-one with client to develop layout, color scheme for his website and implemented it into a final interface design with the HTML/CSS and JavaScript.  • Extensively worked with core java like collections, multithreading, Generics, String Builder and interfaces.  • Designed and created Microservices business segments and RESTful administration endpoints utilizing Spring Boot.  • Integrated Spring and Hibernate to develop the business layer which serves the data required for JSF beans.  • Developed REST services using NodeJS and Express js  • Designed web application user interface, interaction scenarios and navigation based on analysts, interpretations of requirement and use cases  • This is a configuration widget written in CSS3, Java Script, and jQuery framework in UI Layer with Tag library, application deployed and tested on Linux.    Environment: UML Modeling, ER diagrams, vue.js, HTML5/4, Spring Boot , Groovy, CSS3/2, J-Query, JavaScript, Ajax, AngularJS, Node.JS, Bootstrap, PHP, IE 8,9,10, Firefox, Chrome, WAMP Server, My-Sql. Java Full stack developer Napier Healthcare solutions (India) Ltd September 2012 to December 2014 Description:  Napier Healthcare is a healthcare information technology company, that offers healthcare software for private and government hospitals, clinics, pharmacies and diagnostic centers. Napier is headquartered in Singapore with its global development center in Hyderabad.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for the design of web applications right from the conceptualization stage to its implementation and maintenance.  • Developed interactive GUI screens using JavaScript, HTML, DOM, XHTML, JavaScript, J-Query AJAX, CSS in ongoing projects.  • Effectively implemented AJAX in developing dynamic web pages.  • Developed page layouts, custom navigation, animation buttons and icons by using CSS and JavaScript attributes.  • Developed Date Time Picker using J-Query extensively and implemented various effects on the web pages.  • Worked on the RESTful Web Services and used Spring Framework.  • Handled cross browser/platform compatibility issues (IE, Firefox, and Safari).  • Coded JavaScript for page functionality and pop up screens and used HTML to make drop down menus on web pages and display part of a web page upon user request.  • Designed and developed webpages as well as user interface to meet the requirements of the product.  • Tested pages for cross-browser compatibility for Safari, Chrome, Firefox and IE by cross browser hacks and requirements.  • Responsible for all client-side UI Validation and implementing Business logic based on user selection using jQuery, J-Query UI.  • Handled XML data which returns from SOAP web services and coupling with Grid's which exists in different web pages.  • Resolving the defects. Using Casual Analysis Tool to track the defects and also log in the resolutions for these.  • Involved in bug fixing and assisted QA team in navigating through the pages.    Environment: Java, JavaScript, HTML, DOM, XHTML, JavaScript, Spring Boot, J-Query AJAX, CSS, J-Query Grids, SOAP Web services, Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Eclipse, SVN, Windows. Jr. Full stack developer Kali IT Pvt Ltd April 2011 to August 2012 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for design and development of web pages using HTML, CSS including AJAX controls and XML.  • Designed, developed and updated User Interface Web Forms using CSS, Dreamweaver and JavaScript.  • Responsible for developing, editing, publishing and managing content on the external Web pages and internal layouts.  • Responsible for maintaining and managing all products sold on Amazon and ExtremeSupply.com E-Commerce platform and Microsoft Excel.  • Used JavaScript to make dropdown menus on web pages and displayed part of a web page upon user request.  • Involved in writing SQL Queries, Stored Procedures.  • Been an active team player, helped in bug fixing and also carried out troubleshooting.  • Expertise in AngularJS Framework to develop applications and to develop a standalone test application, in scope of future usage of the framework.  • Involved in documentation of the architecture and configuration details.  • Used XML Web Services using SOAP to transfer the amount to transfer application.  • Worked with Jasmine for writing unit test cases along with functionality and integrated test cases.  Environment: HTML, CSS, jQuery, Adobe Photoshop, Spring Boot, E-commerce, Dreamweaver, JavaScript, XML, JavaScript, MySQL. Skills Microsoft visual studio, Visual studio, C++, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Node.js, Json, Visio, Xml, Eclipse, Java, Ajax, Dreamweaver, Web services, Angularjs, Html5, Sass, Soap, Rational Additional Information Technical skills:  Programming Languages HTML/HTML5, CSS2/CSS3, XML, JavaScript, AJAX, J-Query, JSON, AngularJS 2.0, Node.js, Bootstrap.  RDBMS Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server, DB2.  Web Services RESTful (JSON, XML), HTTPS, SOAP.  IDE and Tools NetBeans, Eclipse IDE, Edit Plus, Sublime text, Dreamweaver, Notepad ++, Microsoft Visual Studio.  Programming Languages C, C++, Java, SQL.  Framework AngularJS, Node.js, Bootstrap, React Js, SASS, LESS.  Design Tools Rational Rose, MS Visio.  Operating Systems Windows 8/7/XP and Unix.