Sql developer, jenkin Sql <span class="hl">developer</span>, jenkin * 4+years of experience in Development of Web-based and Enterprise Applications using the technologies like JSE/JEE, Servlet, JSP, Spring-core, Spring-mvc, SpringSecurity, Hibernate, SoapWebServices (JAX-WS), Restful Services (JAX-RS), Spring boot and Micro services.    * Good knowledge of implementing Collections, OOPs concepts in project.  * Good knowledge of implementing Spring boot and Micro services.  * Expertise in developing applications using Spring IOC, Spring MVC and Spring ORM module.  * Good knowledge of integration of Spring and Hibernate by Spring ORM module.  * Good Implementation Knowledge on integration of Spring-Restful Services in layered Architecture.  * Expertise in developing DAO interface and implementations for database related operation using Hibernate.  * Knowledge in Design Pattern like Singleton, Dao, DTO, VO, Factory and BO.  * Knowledge in Spring and Web Service Security (Restful Web Service).  * Knowledge in Spring Data and Spring MVC Integration Implementation Knowledge in Web Service.  * Having good knowledge in JSE/JEE API.  * Knowledge in preparing the Technical Design Document and the Estimation Document for provided Requirement.  * Expertise in Agile's SCRUM Methodology for Software Development.  * Having good knowledge in writing unit testing test case by using JUNIT and MOCKITO.  * Having Good knowledge in using tools like SONAR, SOAP UI, Jenkin and Postman.  * Having knowledge on CUCUMBER (Automation Testing) frame work.    PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY: Work Experience Sql developer, jenkin April 2017 to Present TFS.  Database Oracle    Project & Assignment Description:  CCB (Cross Channel Banking) is a Banking and Finance project of leading European bank. This project comprises of banking services which is developed using Spring Web services. This application comprises of various banking epics like digital account creation, loan, payments etc. Role of mine in this project is of exposing and consuming Different REST or SOAP web services which is getting called from Front End or other third party systems.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis and development.  • Involved to develop Controller and Business layer using Spring MVC and Spring Rest.  • Participate to integrate Spring ORM module and Spring Data in Spring Rest.  • Database interaction done by using DAO' implementation classes with spring data.  • Implemented Beans and their Validations.  • Developed components in different modules and handled change request, bugs.  • Used agile scrum as the methodology for software Development.    Project# IPO (Risocokaart, LZR) Java Developer Commerzbank 2018 to 2018 Java Developer Commerzbank 2018 to 2018 Sql developer ATOS INDIA Pune February 2016 to March 2017 Duration Feb 2016 to March 2017  Environment  JDK, Servlet, Jsp, Spring MVC, Spring data, Hibernate 3.0, WFS, WMS, JavaScript, Action script, Maven, Qgis, Struts and Struts tag library, Sql developer..    Database Oracle    Project's Description:  Risicokaart.nl allows us to discover the risks in our area by entering the post code or place of residence. We can see whether there is an increased risk in your area of, for instance, an aviation accident, natural fires or floods and you receive advice about what you must do in such a case.    The government is obliged to provide information about possible risks. You will therefore be able to read precisely what the risks are, what dangers they represent and how to protect yourself in an emergency.    Precautionary measures ensure that the risk of a large disaster actually occurring is exceedingly small. The extent of a certain risk cannot be indicated in advance. For instance, if a toxic gas is released, the danger zone will depend on the weather. After all, wind blows the toxic substances in a certain direction. That is why the experts are cautious when estimating the danger zone    Responsibilities:    • Involved to develop Controller and Business layer using Spring MVC and Spring Rest  • Participate to integrate hibernate with Spring ORM module.  • Database interaction done by using DAO' implementation classes with spring data.  • Implemented Beans and their Validations.  • Developed components in different modules and handled change request, bugs.  • Used Agile scrum as the methodology for software Development.    Project# ING's C2T(FPSI)  Projects: ING's C2T ATOS INDIA Pune - Pune, MAHARASHTRA, IN April 2015 to March 2017 Working in ACCENTURE Pune from April 2017 to Till date. Camel, Service Mix, soap web services, soap UI, Maven, Sql developer ATOS INDIA Pune April 2015 to February 2016 Duration April 2015 to Feb 2016  Environment JDK, Spring Core, Hibernate 3.0, Camel, Service Mix, soap web services, soap UI, Maven, Sql developer.  Database Oracle and H2    Project's Description:  ING's C2TCards to Target program is a new approach to Master Data Management (MDMMaster Data Management). It consists in the outsourcing of the creation and configuration of all parameters that define the behavior of card products and their related accounts.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzing client's requirement through specification documents and JIRAs.  • Designing and development of these.  • Write Junit test case for the written code.  • Developed components in different modules and handled change request, bugs.  • Used scrum/agile methodology for software development. Java Developer WorldLine 2014 to 2014 Education Master in computer Application Osmania University 2014