Sr. Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - 3M Company Woodbury, MN Creative Java/J2EE developer with 9 years of experience dedicated to building and optimizing the performance of user-centric, high-impact websites for global companies. Leverages technical, analytical and problem-solving skills to create dynamic, high-speed websites, apps and platforms fueling competitive advantage and revenue growth. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Sr. Developer 3M Company - Saint Paul, MN November 2014 to Present Working collaboratively with clients, SAP and other in-house teams in an agile-environment to provide  rapid, robust and client-acclaimed front and back-end development projects.    Projects Summary:  • Global Safety-Data-Sheets (SDS) Distribution application:  • Re-architected existing application to Spring-based Java batch application  • Improved performance from sending 30 documents to more than 100 documents per min.  • Extended application usability to 22 European countries in 3 years.  • Achieved near to 80% sending of SDS on time - which would otherwise lead to compliance  related fines imposed on 3M Company.  • Encouraged the use of Code Reviews in the team using tools like PMD, CheckStyle.  • Created shell scripts and PL/SQL scripts that were executed daily to refresh data feeds from multiple systems.    • Followed agile-based approach for development and used JIRA to track development  • Recycling Administration:  • Spearheaded the development for a configuration system providing reporting capabilities  for recyclable materials.  • Interfaced application with SAP & ASG-Cypress teams to receive high volume data in real- time without affecting other applications  • Created REST Services to be utilized in the web-application  • Made use of messaging APIs like ActiveMQ to send/receive notifications from PRLs Java Developer Apple, Inc - Cupertino, CA January 2010 to November 2014 Worked with leads and developers from Apple to create, update and maintain Apple's retail projects.    Projects Summary:  • Store Management System:  • Enhanced the existing application to Spring-based web-application to manage the information  about Apple retail stores  • Created several REST services that interact with the UI to provide user with requested  information  • Increased performance, extensibility, manageability and testability of the code  • Worked with the DB team to improve the performance by 20%.  • Retail Apps Monitor  • Created a web-app to monitor network traffic at apple stores  • Implemented code using Spring, Core Java and Hibernate.  • Participated in the database design for the application  • ShopperTrak  • Led the development for creating a web-app using JQuery, Spring, Rest Services & Hibernate  • Increased the productivity by using Jenkins for continuous build and Sonar for code coverage & analysis  • Store Inventory Management -  • Created an app to keep a track of inventory available to a store  • Participated in the server upgrades and maintainability, code migrations and worked on important enhancements Education Bachelor's in Electronics & Communication Engineering Institute of Engineering and Emerging Technologies - Baddi, Himachal Pradesh August 2005 to July 2009 Skills J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Java technologies, Spring, Jax, Jaxb, Jax-ws, Jboss, jquery, Jsp, Servlets, Rest, Jdbc, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Html5, Soap, Javascript, Linux Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/dograditya Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate, Java 7 Programmer August 2015 to Present Assessments Problem Solving — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/mczlta0h9b2zumz Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.