Sr. Full Stack / JAVA Developer Sr. Full Stack / <span class="hl">JAVA</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Full Stack / JAVA Developer - Lowe's Companies, Inc Mooresville, NC • 9+ Year of IT Experience is Java based frameworks and databases.  • Effective team player as well as individual performer with experience in Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Spring, Hibernate, SQL, PL/SQL and Oracle, MySQL  • Extensive experience in multiple Java and J2EE technologies such as Servlet, JSP, JSTL, Spring, Struts, Sitemesh, IBatis, Hibernate and JPA, XML, XSD, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery,AJAX, JUnit, WSDL, SOAP, Restful Web Services (Restlet), ActionScript 3.0  • Well experienced in Working on Core Java, J2EE (EJB, JSP & Servlets, JDBC, JMS), SQL, JQuery, HTML.  • Experience with Core Java with Multithreading, Concurrency, Exception Handling, File handling, IO, Generics, Data structures and Collections, Garbage Collection.  • Expert in using testing, logging and building tools like JUnit, Log4J and Ant.  • Strong skills in API design, Enterprise Application Integration, Database Design and knowledge of various Architecture, design, Integration patterns and Application frameworks development.  • Experience in creating comprehensive web applications using MEAN stack implemented with MS SQL, Express, Angular 2 and Node.js.  • Proficient in designing and implementing web server solutions and deploying Java application servers like Apache Tomcat, IBM WebSphere, Web logic on Windows/UNIX platform  • Extensively used JDBC Statement, Prepared Statement, Callable Statement and Result Set interfaces while providing database interaction with the RDBMS backend.  • Strong and recent experience with developing or working within an automated testing framework.  • Hands on Experience on Angular 2technology for one complete project in rebasing the UI of the application using the techniques in Angular 2.  • Used Bootstrap and AngularJS, React.js and Node.js in effective web design.  • Motivation of peers and mentoring team members to achieve their respective annual objectives  • Experienced developing against SOLR Search Platform APIs  • developing Multi-Tier Web Applications and Server side Business Logic using J2EE, XML, WebSphere, WebLogic, Apache Tomcat, Enterprise Java Beans, Servlets, JSP, Struts, JDBC, DB2, Oracle, PL/SQL.  • Experienced in React JS and working with React Flux architecture.  • Experience in developing JAVA/J2EE applications using IDEs such as Eclipse, RAD.  • Extensive experience in working with various databases like Oracle 11g/12c, SQL Server and MySQL  • Hands on experience in Rational Suite of Products like Rational Rose in developing Use Cases, Sequence Diagrams using UML, Rational Suite.  • Expertise in configuring the Spring Application Context with dependency injection and using Spring Framework that can integrate Hibernate and Web Services  • Hands on experience with production support tool such as Jira, Remedy, Quality Center - bug tracking tool.  • Expertise with Spring Framework using components like MVC, Transactions, ORM and JDBC. Also used Hibernate ORM, JSF and Struts MVC frameworks.  • Has extensive knowledge on UNIX Shell scripting, FTP, SFTP.  • Experience with Design patterns like Singleton, Data Access Object, MVC Pattern and Agile, SCRUM methodology.  • Experience in working with ES6 features, used babble, web pack with ES5, React js.  • Expert in latest technologies and approaches for SOA based development and good understanding of SOA life cycle, SOA design Backbone principle, Service registry and various other SOA infrastructures. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Full Stack / JAVA Developer Lowe's Companies, Inc - Mooresville, NC November 2018 to Present Responsibilities  • Involved in analysis, design and documentation of the application model.  • Applied design patterns including MVC Pattern, Factory Design Pattern and Singleton Design Pttern.  • Worked on advanced UI design and full stack development using MEAN stack.  • Used spring framework for Dependency Injection and integrated with Hibernate.  • Involved in developing Spring Beans and wiring their dependencies.  • Extensively worked with Hibernate Query Language (HQL) to store and retrieve the data from Oracle database.  • Used Apache Kafka (Message Queues) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information between multiple business applications. Involved in developing an automation tool, in Java and Scala on Akka Framework  • Developed and deployed solution using several new technologies, including Linux - Ubuntu, Drupal and Apache SOLR.  • Used Java 8 features like stream and Lambda expressions  • Used SVN Backbone as a version controller.  • Developed stored procedures, triggers and functions to process the data using PL/SQL and mapped it to Hibernate Configuration File.  • Experienced in MEAN stack advancement (MongoDB, Express.JS, AngularJS &NodeJS).  • Developed React.js applications using Redux architecture for front-end UI, and Node.js applications for backend.  • Used microservice architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka message broker  • Configured routes in Apache Camel using XML for routing messages between end points  • Developed bootstrap UI JS using with Angular JS  • Development of Apache Struts web applications from concept to rollout  • Extensive experience on MVC architecture and using frameworks like Angular 2 and React JS for creating Single-Page Applications(SPA) using concepts like Dependency Injection, Promises, Services, Scope, Controllers and Directives.  • Developing micro services using Java Spring Boot and GoLang with Docker deployments  • Added routing and developed factories, worked on root level variables and functions  • Developed Unit and E2E test cases using Node JS.  • The tech stack is AngularJS, Express and innovative server side technologies like Node.js, MongoDB (MEAN Stack).  • Experience with Front-end JavaScript frameworks like Angular JS, Node JS. And with the creation of RESTful Web service.  • Used the light weight container of the Spring Frame work to provide architectural flexibility for inversion of controller (IOC).  • Experience with Python, Hadoop, Mongo DB.  • Created TypeScript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using component based architecture provided by Angular 2.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, CSS, AJAX, JQuery, XML, XSLT, Eclipse, Spring Web MVC, Hibernate 4.0, WebLogic 10.3, WSDL, SOAP, JAXP, JAXB, Oracle 11g, SQL, HP Quality Center, JUNIT, Ant. Sr. Java Full Stack Developer BlackRock - Wilmington, DE September 2016 to October 2018 Responsibilities:  • Development, enhancement and testing of the Web Methods flow services and Java services.  • Used web services for interaction between various components and created SOAP envelopes.  • Paypal had their own application stack for REST based Java application, understood their architecture before design and development.  • Proficient coder in multiple languages and environments including Python, Django, C, C++ and SQL.  • Experienced in using Scala, Java and Python frameworks for Bigdata/Spark engine requirements.  • Implementation of Struts - Configuration Files, Validation Files, Interceptors, Filters, Listeners for Modules.  • Hands on experience in Html, CSS Java Script, BootStrap, Ajax, php.  • Created frontend screens using GWT framework.  • Loaded data in elastic search from Datalake and Optimized the full search function using Elastic Search.  • Expertise in AngularJS controllers, directives, factories, services, routing, DOM manipulation using JavaScript, jQuery and AngularJS. Experience in MEAN (MongoDB, Express, Angular Js and NodeJS) Stack application development  • Used Elastic search for Real time analytics and a Full text search functionality  • Subject matter expert in enterprise search engine analysis, design, development and systems integration. Search engines include Autonomy IDOL Server, MOSS 2007, Endeca, Lucene/Solr and Microsoft FAST 2010 for SharePoint 2010, SharePoint 2013.  • Experience in working with the NoSQL, Mongo DB, and Apache Cassandra.  • Resolving scalability and performance issues both in Applications as well as in Web sphere/Web Logic Application Servers.  • Developed Framework components for Struts Presentation tier, Business tier and Resource tir  • Experienced in MEAN stack advancement (MongoDB, Express.JS, AngularJS &NodeJS).  • Experience in developing Web based GUI's using JSP, HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript (and its frameworks like JSON), Action Script, DOJO, Node JS, Angular JS, JQuery, EXT JS and Ajax.  • Modularized front end CSS and JS code with Sass.Built a real-time mouse/click user analytics web service with Node.js  • Involved in developing an automation tool, in Java and Scala on Akka Framework  • Experience in web applications creation with HTML5, Ajax, JQuery, Backbone.js, and CSS3.  • Performed UNIX Shell scripting for the application.  • Worked on Solr, Elastic Search, Kafka, Flume, MangoDB and Cassendra  • Extract the data from Oracle and push to Apache Kafka Queue using Golden Gate.  • Used Apache Kafka (Message Queues) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information between multiple business applications. Involved in developing an automation tool, in Java and Scala on Akka Framework.  • Implemented search engines by using Angular JS filter to make the data searchable and sortable.  • Involved in converting Hive/SQL queries into Spark transformations using Spark RDD, Scala.  • Experience in development of JavaScript for client side validations.  • Designed/developed UI with AJAX, HTML, DHTML and JavaScript for interactive web pages.    Environment: Java8, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, CSS, AJAX, JQuery, XML, XSLT, Eclipse, Spring Web MVC, Hibernate 4.0, WebLogic 10.3, SOAP, JAXP, JAXB, Oracle 11g, SQL , JUNIT. Java Full Stack Developer Matlen Silver - Charlotte, NC May 2013 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Build with Java J2EE, Apache Tomcat 8.0, WebLogic 10, Maven 3.0, Spring Wicket,Junit, Oracle 12c, Spring, RESTful, SOAP web services, JSON, Selenium and Cucumber.  • Agile/SCRUM was used as the project management methodology and JIRA were the tools used to keep things in check.  • Developed Java application which is an integration of technology Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring Data, Hibernate, REST and SOAP web services.  • Created maven archetypes for generating fully functional REST web services supporting both XML and JSON message transformation.  • Written Junit test for whole projects and calculated the mutation coverage for all the files.  • Created Mock service to all requests and responses, also developed the business layer using Spring beans using Dependency Injection and Inversion of Control principles.  • Involved in developing application using HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, jQuery, Angular JS.  • Developed User Interface using Angular JS, jQuery, Html5.  • Developed Custom Directives, Custom services in Angular JS and utilized UI Router to develop a single page Web Application.  • Handling cross browser/platform compatibility issues (Firefox and Safari) on both Windows and Mac.  • Developed RESTful services using Jersey, Rest let and JAX-RS to call third party vendors.  • Co-ordinated in all testing phases and worked closely with Performance testing team to create a baseline for the new application.  • Designed Mock ups in Adobe Creative Suite utilizing Photoshop, Illustrator as indicated by the business necessities.  • Used Ajax to consume the web services and then represent the data to the user without the necessity to reload the complete web page.    Environment: Hibernate, SOAP, Spring MVC, Spring Data, Spring AOP, Maven, Angular JS, Bootstrap, Java, jQuery, JSON, HTML5, CSS3, Ajax, Log4j, JSON, Web administrations, Selenium, Ant Build, WebLogic, PL/SQL, JAX-RS, Jersey, REST Web Services. Java Full Stack Developer Neumeric Technologies Corporation - Southfield, MI January 2010 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed RESTful Microservices using Spring Boot for the application to seamlessly integrate with supporting sub systems.  • Used SpringBOOT to create stand-alone spring applications.  • Involved in the review of the BRD, HLD, LLD, Use Cases, Functional specifications, Test design of the application.  • Involved in designing and deploying a multitude application utilizing almost all the AWS stack (Including EC2, EBS, RDS, Dynamo DB,) focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling.  • All the functionality is implemented using Spring IO / Spring Boot and Hibernate ORM. Implemented Java EE components using Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring transactions and Spring security modules.  • Developed Java/J2EE code, business logic using Spring, hibernate framework and OOPS concepts, involved in Peer code reviews.  • Developed front-end UI using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and AJAX.  • Developed the UI responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular2 and JSON.  • Deployed the Microservices on Pivotal Cloud Foundry for scalability of the applications in future. Used Docker as a container tool to deploy the Microservices.  • Extensively worked on the Angular UI Routing to handle navigation to access different pages in the application.  • Unit tested all the classes using JUNIT at various class level and methods level.  • Worked on Swagger, REST with JSON to test data, and Postman for testing the Web Services and Documentation of the Web API.    Environment: Java, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring Security, Hibernate, Angular2,XML, HTML, CSS, Java Script, jQuery, Ajax, Log4j, JSON, JUNIT, AWS, RESTful Web services. Education Bachelor's