Java/J2EE Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/J2EE Developer - Infosys (Apple) Edison, NJ Work Experience Java/J2EE Developer Infosys (Apple) June 2019 to Present This Project involves redesigning the existing modules involving activities like creation of account, transaction, bill payments and IOS Development.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on Object Oriented Design/Object Oriented Analysis with usage of UML Sequence Diagrams and Class Diagrams with Rational Rose for the Center for Medicare & Medicaid Services project.  • Discussed, analyzed and strategized product design with Product Managers, UX team and Business Managers.  • Involved in complete development of 'Agile Development Methodology' and tested the application within each iteration.  • Consumed SOAP web services. Used JAXB generate Java classes from WSDL and applying business logic. Used SOAPUI for monitoring and testing SOAP web services.  • Active participant in bug reviews, QA testing support and responsible for providing production support.  • Used Object/Relational mapping Hibernate framework as the persistence layer for interacting with DB.  • Used Microservices architecture with Spring Boot based service through REST.  • Performed UI development using JSON objects, J Query, JavaScript, JSP, CSS and custom TagLibs with client-side validations.  • Wrote Test cases using JUnit to validate the application flows in different scenarios in the standalone application.  • Deployed web components, presentation components and business components in Web Logic Application Server.  • Developed presentation tier using JSP, Java Script, HTML, and CSS for manipulating, validating, customizing, error messages to the User Interface.  • Worked on J2EE frameworks like spring and Struts for developing industry standard web applications.  • Created Location Look up SOAP/ REST based web services using spring.  • Developed Controllers and Services classes that support spring framework.  • Used Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  • Supported the application using Jboss application server.  • Used Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping.  • Worked on Multi Threading and Used Collections extensively to store, retrieve and manipulate objects in the business logic layer.  • Developed the application using Eclipse as the IDE and used the standard features for editing, debugging, running etc. Full Stack Developer/ Lead Developer BolBom INC - New York, NY April 2017 to May 2019 BolBom INc is a locally owned and operated independent E-Commerce Firm. The project is designed primarily to meet the organization's requirements for Website Trafficking. The Application is a J2EE based website with using HTML and CSS for automating the entire GUI and Transaction processing workflow.    Responsibilities:  • Work with agencies to build traffic & sales via the website  • Plan, define and implement website changes and functional improvements  • Maintain and update the online marketing plan for the website  • Monitor key performance indicators on the website and develop plans to improve them  • Understanding of the disciplines required to drive traffic to retail websites (ppc, email marketing, link generation, online pr, SEO, offline marketing and pr, affiliate programmes, etc)  • Involved in study of User Requirement Specification. Requested insufficient information and helped clearing ambiguity in requirements document.  • Developed server-side software modules and client-side user interface components deployed entirely in Compute Cloud of Amazon Web Services (AWS). Worked with Java libraries to access AWS facilities as Simple Storage Service (S3)  • Used JSP, Servlets, and HTML5 to create web interfaces. Developed Java Beans and used custom tag libraries for embedding dynamic into JSP pages.  • Understanding of order management/customer fulfillment in an e-commerce context  • Experience using packages like Excel and Photoshop Computer literate and understanding of basic web technologies (FTP, browsers, basic HTML, data files)  • Familiar with data management. Previous experience of website or e-commerce CMS.Basic understanding of Google products such as Webmaster Tools & Analytics would be desirable  • Create banners, images, promotions etc for display on the website (using products like Photoshop)  • Update content managed areas (copy & artwork).Manage website configuration & parameters (eg payment options, stock management).Investigate and report any operational/technical issues arising  • Developed MicroServices using ELK stack and Kafka for API logging and auditing.  • Scope and document ongoing website functional projects /improvement. Test and deploy functional projects /improvements  • Liaise with e-commerce agency regarding the day to day management of the website.Liaise with internal resources regarding the day to day management of the website  • Evaluate approaches & strategies to improve website sales conversions & customer engagement  • Understand and develop sources of traffic (& the factors that influence it): email, SEO, PPC, affiliates, social media, catalogues etc  • Liaise with agencies or in-house teams to implement and support campaigns.Investigate, evaluate and assess new ways of generating additional traffic/orders.  • Produce reports to analyse the performance of all online marketing campaigns and promotions (via reports, analytics, surveys etc)  • To meet and exceed all agreed performance objectives (sales, conversions, engagement),Continuous improvement of customer satisfaction  • Meet internal service levels for website activity and management.Maintaining an excellent level of service to the business  • Involved in implementation of modules related to file comparison received from clients using Spring Framework.    Environment: JAVA, J2EE, Servlets,SOAP Web Services,HTML5, JavaScript, JDBC, PL/SQL, XML, UML. Mid J2EE Developer GLATFELTER'S INSURANCE GROUP - York, PA January 2017 to April 2017 Glatfelter's Insurance is a Insurance company is America's Leading Insurer of Emergency Organization. we are working on VFIS offers tailored property and casualty, accident and sickness, and other benefits programs for first responders and emergency service organizations. VFIS is the largest provider of insurance, education and consulting services to fire departments, ambulance and rescue squads and 911 centers. SPOD is also one the project which I work on with glatfelter's    Responsibilities:  • Involved in design phase and data modeling, interacted with other team members to understand the requirements for the project.  • Designed and developed web-based software using Spring MVC Framework and Spring Web Flow.  • Use of tools such as PMD, find-bugs, Jenkins, Sonar to ensure the continuous integration in the project.  • Assisted in ongoing integration of Web-sphere Message Broker with the rest of the legacy network still in operation.  • Developed JSP, HTML, CSS and a part of presentation layer using JavaScript,  • Created Cloud computing infrastructure AWS EC2.  • Handled all client side validations, slide show, hide and show controls, dropdown menus and tab navigation using JQUERY.  • Implemented Collections Framework for fetching and appending strings from the deployed UI.  • Deployed Servlets and EJBs in the JBOSS Application Server.  • Involved in batch processing using SpringBatch framework to extract data from database and load into corresponding Insurance App tables.  • Participated in Code review using PMD, Sonhrqube, UC Detector.  • Developed dynamic e-mails using JavaScript, and hand coding of HTML5 and CSS.  • Involved in configuration of Spring MVC and Integration with Hibernate.  • Used Spring MVC framework for design and development of web application  • Created Location Look up SOAP based web services using spring.  • Generated reports on Splunk as needed by the management.  • Build scripts on AWS cloud for scheduling EC2 auto scaling load balancer with python SDK.  • Developed Controllers and Services classes that support spring framework.  • Worked on jQuery for user interface interactions, effects and themes built on top of the JavaScript.  • Responsible for preparing design document and delivery of batch applications, un-block technical impediments for the team, cross team interactions, code review, client interaction on daily basis, manage offshore deliverables.  • Developed Web Services for data transfer from client to server and vice versa using Apache Axis, SOAP, WSDL.  • Developing functional specifications for business process refinement and automation, System Architecture, conducting feasibility studies, scope  • Involved in writing SQL queries and stored procedures for data manipulation.    Environment: Core Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, JPA, Oracle, Jboss, Ant, CSS, HTML5, Oracle10g, Eclipse, JSP, JavaScript, Apache Axis, SOAP web services. J2EE Developer EXELON ENERGY - Baltimore, MD February 2015 to December 2016 EXELON ENERGY is an American software development firm that specializes in information processing and management. It provides services primarily through financial services and power generation, competitive energy sales, transmission and delivery. My project was to write, maintain, and document code using high-level specifications or verbal instructions to support and enhance existing software, Develop UI for Software Application, third-party products, and/or new software applications.In this project I have to continuously evaluate and compare trends and patterns in the industry against our current software landscape and propose ideas and solutions to keep us aligned towards future vision and goals. I have to define the underlying architecture for developing, testing and deploying all front-end code.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in design phase and data modeling, interacted with other team members to understand the requirements for the project.  • Designed and developed web-based software using Spring MVC Framework and Spring Web Flow.  • Wrote Hibernate configuration file, Hibernate mapping files and define persistence classes to persist the data into Oracle Database.  • Developed JSP, HTML, CSS and a part of presentation layer using JavaScript, Angular JS and Node.js.  • Handled all client side validations, slide show, hide and show controls, dropdown menus and tab navigation using JQUERY.  • Implemented Collections Framework for fetching and appending strings from the deployed UI.  • Used AJAX to provide an advanced user experience.  • Developed ant scripts and developed builds using Apache ANT.  • Developed dynamic e-mails using JavaScript, and hand coding of HTML5 and CSS.  • Involved in configuration of Spring MVC and Integration with Hibernate.  • Used Spring MVC framework for design and development of web application  • Created Location Look up SOAP based web services using spring.  • Developed Controllers and Services classes that support spring framework.  • Worked on jQuery for user interface interactions, effects and themes built on top of the JavaScript.  • Involved in the application involving Oracle, JAXB, web service Java.  • Extensive Experience in Web Services Technologies like SOAP, WSDL, JMS.  • Validated Web service response using SOAP UI.  • Implemented object/relational persistence and query service using Hibernate.  • Performed regression, integration, platform and performance testing to certify the stability and usability of software systems.  • Developed Web Services for data transfer from client to server and vice versa using Apache Axis, SOAP, WSDL and UDDI.  • Developing functional specifications for business process refinement and automation, System Architecture, conducting feasibility studies, scope  • Involved in writing SQL queries and stored procedures for data manipulation.  Environment: Core Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, JPA, Oracle, Angular JS, Jboss, Ant, CSS, HTML5, Oracle10g, Eclipse, JSP, JavaScript, Apache Axis, SOAP web services. JAVA DEVELOPER INTERN BLUE CUBE TECHNOLOGY, COLORADO February 2014 to January 2015 BlueCube is a leading provider of UI for software application, human resources and benefits outsourcing solutions for small to medium sized businesses. The objective of the project is to develop a payroll application which supports independent contractors and multi state taxes. And also supports some of the US territories.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in design phase and data modeling, interacted with other team members to understand the requirements for the project.  • Implemented J2EE standards, MVC architecture using Spring Framework.  • Developed cross-browser/platform HTML5, CSS, and JavaScript to match design specs for complex page layouts while adhering to code standards  • Implemented various Validation Controls for form validation and implemented custom validation controls with JavaScript and jQuery.  • Developed presentation tier using JSP, Java Script, HTML, and CSS for manipulating, validating, customizing, error messages to the User Interface.  • Worked on J2EE frameworks like spring and Struts for developing industry standard web applications.  • Created Location Look up SOAP based web services using spring.  • Developed Controllers and Services classes that support spring framework.  • Used Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  • Supported the application using Jboss application server.  • Used Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping.  • Worked on Multi Threading and Used Collections extensively to store, retrieve and manipulate objects in the business logic layer.  • Developed the application using Eclipse as the IDE and used the standard features for editing, debugging, running etc.  • Involved in Bug fixing of various modules that were raised by the testing teams in the application during the testing phase.  • Utilized SOAP UI to generate request XML's from WSDL to test the responses.  • Created the design documents with use case diagrams, class diagrams, and sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Wrote SQL queries for Oracle Database.  • Involved in creating Controller using spring frame work and writing JSP.  • Validated Web service response using SOAP UI.  • Implemented object/relational persistence and query service using Hibernate.  • Used Spring Dependency Injection to inject required services.  • Provided comprehensive software release documentation and training to support staff after compiling QA test outcomes  • Involved in writing SQL queries and stored procedures for data manipulation.  Environment: Core Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, JPA, Oracle, Angular JS, Jboss, Ant, CSS, HTML5, Oracle10g, Eclipse, JSP, JavaScript, Apache Axis, SOAP web services. Java/J2EE Developer Kony - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2012 to May 2014 This Project involves redesigning the existing modules involving activities like creation of account, transaction, bill payments and customer services.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on Object Oriented Design/Object Oriented Analysis with usage of UML Sequence Diagrams and Class Diagrams with Rational Rose for the Center for Medicare & Medicaid Services project.  • Discussed, analyzed and strategized product design with Product Managers, UX team and Business Managers.  • Involved in complete development of 'Agile Development Methodology' and tested the application within each iteration.  • Consumed SOAP web services. Used JAXB generate Java classes from WSDL and applying business logic. Used SOAPUI for monitoring and testing SOAP web services.  • Active participant in bug reviews, QA testing support and responsible for providing production support.  • Used Object/Relational mapping Hibernate framework as the persistence layer for interacting with DB.  • Performed UI development using JSON objects, JQuery, JavaScript, JSP, CSS and custom TagLibs with client-side validations.  • Wrote Test cases using JUnit to validate the application flows in different scenarios in the standalone application.  • Deployed web components, presentation components and business components in Web Logic Application Server.    Environment: Java/J2EE, Spring, JSP1.2, Servlets2.1, Jasper reports, Hibernate, JMS, IBM MQ, XML, SOAP, UDDI, WSDL, JDBC, JavaScript. Education MASTERS IN CIS University of Massachusetts September 2014 to December 2015 Skills Awt, Bea, Bea weblogic, Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jax, Jaxb, Jax-rpc, Jax-ws, Jboss, Jfc, Jms, Jndi, jquery, Jsf, Jsp