Java Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Full Stack Developer - Premier Consulting Charlotte, LLC Roseland, NJ • Around 8+ years of experience in Java/J2EE, Software Development Life Cycle, Object Oriented programming, developing and testing of Client/Server, Enterprise and Web Applications.  • Experienced in working various domains such as Banking, Insurance and ecommerce.  • Expertise in Core Java concepts such as OOP concepts, Collections Framework, Exception Handling, I/O System, Multi-Threading, JDBC, Reflection, SWING and Generics.  ? Proficient in the development of client/server and web Applications using JAVA, J2EE, J2SE technologies and Web Technologies for enterprise applications.  ? Expert in developing enterprise web-based application based on Java technologies using J2EE, J2SE, EJB, Java Servlets, Struts, Java Beans, JMS,JNDI, ANT and Apache Maven.  ? Strong experience in configuring backend using various Spring frameworks features such as Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring IOC, Spring Boot, Spring ORM and Spring Security.  ? Expertise in developing UI based GUIs using Java Applets, HTML5, DHTML, JavaScript, Typescript, AngularJS, Angular 2 /4/5, XML, DOJO, AJAX, JSF, JSP&spring form tags.  ? Involved in internal architectural changes both for product and acceptance test framework Fitnesse  ? Experience in Object Relational Mapping (ORM) like Hibernate and MyBatis using Java Persistence API (JPA) standard.  ? Experience in developing application with use of different Architectures and Frameworks like Model View Controller (MVC), Data Access Object (DAO), Data Transfer Object and POJO.  ? Expertise in developing good server side with hand on experience of enterprise and persistence Design Patterns such as Singleton, Factory, Façade, Decorator, Observer and AOP.  ? Expertise indeveloping Web applications using Swing java, HTML5, DHTML, Java Script, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, AJAX and worked on creating & consuming different format of data such as on XML and JSON.  ? Proficient in developing web pages with Responsive web design (RWD) approach using HTML5, Bootstrap, CSS3 media queries.  ? Experience in developing application in Single Page (SPA's) using various JavaScript frameworks such as Angular JS and React JS.  ? Hands on experience using jQuery, Node.js, Bootstrap and Angular JS for changing styles dynamically, creating animating effects and manipulating DOM structures.  ? Extensively used Node.js tools tool like Gulp, Grunt, Web pack and used popular Node.js framework like Express and Resitfy to mock a RESTful API.  ? Extensiveexperience in developing Web servicesusing SOAP, RESTful, Axis, WSDL, WS Security, XML-RPC and JAXB/JAXP.  ? Experience in working with different databases like Mongo DB, Oracle Db, SQL Server, DB2 and MySQL &very good experience in OOAD and UML methodologies, Class diagram using Rational Rose.  ? Hands on experience in configuration and deployment of multi-tier applications using servers like WebSphere, Web Logic, Tomcat and JBoss.  ? Experience on AWS cloud services like EC2, S3, RDS, ELB and EBS for installing and configuring.  ? Working experience in Ant, MAVEN and Jenkins for project build/test/deployment, Log4j for logging and JUnit for unit and integration testing.  ? Experience in Test driven development (TDD) using unit testing frameworks such as Jasmine Protractor, Karma, JUnit, QUnit and Selenium.  ? Working knowledge on Version control software such as SVN and GIT& strong knowledge of IDEs like Eclipse, Net Beans, Web Sphere Studio Application Developer.  ? Involved in all stages of Software Development lifecycle (SDLC) as well as Agile/Scrum workflow.  ? Worked on Atlassian products such as Git for Version control, Source tree, Jira for project tracking,  ? Confluence for project Wiki.  ? Excellent team player with leadership abilities. Strong analytical skills with excellent interpersonal and communication skills with analytical ability and understanding of Organizational functioning. Work Experience Java Full Stack Developer Premier Consulting Charlotte, LLC - Charlotte, NC July 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Worked withAgile methodology and actively participated in Scrum meetings as a part of SDLC, to produce quality deliverables within time.  ? Develop the UI component architecture for developer framework using Angular 4, Typescript, HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap.  ? Created custom, self-contained, reusable and testable Angular 4 modules, controllers, directives and services to implement key functionalities for customer account summary.  ? Used Angular 4Http services for asynchronous validations for the input fields of the forms with the data existed in the database.  ? Took part in setting up the routing configuration using Angular 4 router for various views and sub views.  ? Worked simultaneously in both production and development teams and took part in designing and developing dynamic web pages using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, SASS, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular 4 for single page applications.  ? Worked on customizing the Bootstrap classes using CSS preprocesses like SASS.  ? Worked on the enhancements of the navigation and menu button into responsive features using BootstrapNav-default class and Collapse button.  ? Used AJAX calls to consume RESTful web services to fetch data and implement asynchronous communication with server side and then rendered the data on PrimeNG datatables.  ? Worked on creating Angular custom pipes to sort the history of various customers through order of date, year and month, ngFor for display of the history of customer details in tables.  ? Used Hibernate 4 to store the persistent data as an Object-Relational Mapping (ORM) took for communicating with database.  ? Used a Microservice architecture with Spring Boot based services interacting through a combination of REST to build, test and deploy identity Microservices.  ? Worked on latest features of Java 8like Lambda expressions and functional interfaces.  ? Extensively used JUnit, JMeter, SoapUI and Fitnesse for testing.  ? Developed SpringJMS Message listeners to process messages asynchronously between new services and legacy services.  ? Used the concepts of Multithreading and Collections Framework  ? Responsible for business logic using Java, JavaScript, and JDBC for querying database  ? Involved in the design and implementation of Account Management Portal using Spring MVC  ? Used Spring-JDBC configuration to manage some transactions across multiple databases.  ? Integrated Spring Security for single sign on for different users  ? Worked with SOAP Web Services (JAX-WS using Axis 2.0) for creating the discount summary, also used WSDL and SOAP messages (XML technologies) for getting data from different module and SAX XML parsers being used for data retrieval  ? Developed the DAO layer for the application using Spring, Hibernate and developed various business logic and reports using HQL and Hibernate Criteria.  ? Performed CRUD operations like Update, Insert and Delete data in NoSQL database like MongoDB.  ? Responsible for mapping the database model into persistence objects using Hibernate Annotations.  ? Provided Log4j support to the application for debugging the system and server side logging and configured Mavendependencies for build automation.  ? Hosted and tested the application in AWS servers before publishing it in actual production environment.  ? Used GIT as version control tool for effectively managing the code changes & experience with Agile/Scrum methodology  ? Worked in a CI/CD environment with Jenkins, Maven, AWS and Terraform.    Environment: Java 8,HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JSON, Typescript, Angular 4, MongoDB, Spring security, Spring Boot, JMS, SASS, Hibernate ORM, Spring AOP, Karma, Jasmine, Jenkins, AWS, PrimeNG, JMS, HQL, Agile, Scrum, Jira, Junit, Jmeter, SoapUI, REST, GIT, Tomcat Java Full Stack Developer Third Bank - Cincinnati, OH December 2015 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developed views using Bootstrap components, Angular-UI and involved in configuring routing for various modules using angular UI router.  • Created Custom Directives in Angular-JS, making use of Modules and Filters objects according to the application requirement. Involved in making Spring and Hibernate enhancements to existing applications Developed unit test cases using Mocha and Karma as unit test runner for various application modules.  • Used Spring LDAP for user security credentials authentication and for validating the User roles.  • Developed Restful services using Spring Boot and Jersey integration and involved in creating Jersey filters, interceptors and exception mappers.  • Coded Gradle build scripts to build and deploy the application on WebSphere. ETL jar is configured to run on daily and monthly basis this job is configured in Cron tab.  • Designed and Developed UI for Portfolio Review Dashboard application using Angular-JS, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, LESS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Developed Batch jobs using Spring Batch to read flat files and load the data into Oracle database and scheduled using Spring Quartz Scheduling.  • Used Mongoose JS to access the documents from the Node-JS web server and build data models for the entities in the database schema.  • Used Express JS to build a web service to provide access to the models and exposed it using a REST API that emits JSON. Secured the app with Passport JS using a local strategy.  • Created REST clients to consume data from other partner applications and involved in creating POC's using MEAN stack and enhancing existing REST API's developed using Node-JS, Express-JS and Mongo-db.  • Developed Apache Camel endpoints and used producer template to route messages to JMS queues.  • Utilized Angular-JS framework to bind HTML template (views) to JavaScript object (models). Implemented continuous deployment system with Jenkins, AWS: Code Deploy, Ops Works, and Packer for deployment of Java Applications.  • Used MySQL as backend database using Windows OS, Involved in development of Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages and Triggers.  • Deployed the application on a JBoss server on a UNIX platform.    Environment: Agile,Core Java 1.8, Spring 4, Spring Boot, Angular-JS 1.4, HTML 5, Node-JS, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, MySQL, Mongo-db, Hibernate, JERSEY REST, Eclipse, NetBeans, IBM Cognos, JMS, Apache Camel, JBoss, Jenkins, Gradle, AWS, Unix, Web Service, WebSphere. Java/J2EE Developer TNS May 2013 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Agile SCRUM development process was used for the product life cycle management.  • Created Use Case, wrote design approach documents, development, implementations, support, for functional security modules like Self Registration, Change Password, Approve Failed Registrations, and Update Other's Profile on a weekly basis.  • Designed and Developed complex UI screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript ,AJAX, GWT, JQuery, JQuery-EasyUI, , andJSP.  • Implemented Struts 2.x frameworkin the application. Responsibleforconfiguration and integration ofSpring 4, Struts 2.x and Hibernate 4.3.x.  • Designed and developed Controllers, Action Mappings, Interceptors, Forms and View pages for management of policy claims using Struts2.x framework.  • Implemented Persistence layer using Hibernate 4.3.x to interact with the MySQL database.  • Used Hibernate for object relational mapping and persistence.  • Used SAX and DOM parser for parsing xml documents and XSLT API to handle XML parsing in Object Oriented way.  • Implemented different Design patterns like DAO, Singleton, Factory, Delegate, and FrontController.  • Implemented rest web services using REST, JSON and JAX-RS and SOAP web services using JAX-WS.  • Developed application service components and configured beans using SpringIoC, creation of Hibernate mapping files and generation of database schema.  • Designed and developed Message driven beans that consumed the messages from the Java message queue &Configured JMS service class to transfer the orders between agents and policy holders.  • Implemented jQuery AJAX calls in JSP web pages to render the response on to UI.  • Created unit tests using JUnit framework in test driven development approach and developed unit and integration test cases using JUnit and Mockito.  • Used SVN as version control tool and Maven as build tool.  • Workedcloselywithrequirementteam,testingteam,databaseadministratorsandproductionsupportteam.    Environment: Java, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSF, XJCL, JDBC, Spring Boot, Spring MVC IBM DB2, Hibernate, Subversion (SVN), IBM WebSphere Application Server8.5, SOAP, REST, JMS, IBM Java Batch, JUnit, Mockito, Jenkins, Maven, IBM RSA, IBM Urban Code Deployment tool, Windows 7. Java/J2EE Developer Kantar July 2011 to May 2013 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering new Business Requirements of the system from client.  • Waterfall methodology to plan and monitor projects.  • Developed web application using JSF Framework that uses Model View Controller (MVC) architecture with XHTML as the view.  • Used the Spring MVC framework to create a loosely coupled enterprise application using JSF for User Interface and Hibernate for ORM.  • Designed User Interface using Java Server Faces XHTML PAGES.  • Implemented JSF framework extensively which involves building the whole user Interface components using JSF tab panels, Panel groups and data tables.  • Developed additional UI Components using JSF and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX communication (JQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience.  • Developed the user interface screens using JSF and Prime faces component library. Also used Rich faces to customize some of the components in XHTML pages.  • Tested the web services using SOAPUI and Web Service Explorer. Used SOAP for Web Services by exchanging XML data between applications over HTTP.  • Developed Servlets and Java Server Pages (JSP), to route the submittals to the EJB components and render-retrieved information using Session Facade, Service Locator (design pattern).  • Implemented the business logic under the Servlets and interacted with the database using JDBC.  • Used Dynamic SQL (DBMS_SQL, DBMS_ DDL) in Functions and Procedures to load the data from Oracle DB. Created database Triggers to record Insertion, Updating, Deleting and all other audit routines. Responsible for Code Reviews and PL/SQL Code Tuning.  • Involved in the overall system's support and maintenance services such as Defect Fixing, Feature Enhancements, Testing and Documentation.  • Used SVN for version control management and Maven for Build. Deployed an application in Tomcat server.    Environment: JSF, EJB, AJAX, SOAP based Webservices, Eclipse, Tomcat, SVN, Maven 3.x, Servlets, , JDBC, XHTML1.1, SQL, PL/SQL. Java/J2EE Developer SoftSol - IN August 2010 to July 2011 Responsibilities:  • GUI development using HTML, XML, JSP, Servlets, JavaScript with the help of MVC Architecture.  • Worked extensively on the JSPs using MVC architecture.  • Front-end validations in JavaScript and also Server validations for Database consistency.  • Utilized Servlets to handle various requests from the client browser and send responses.  • Created Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) to give a better view to the Web Pages.  • Used Spring, Hibernate module as an Object Relational mapping tool for back end operations over SQL database.  • Used SpringIOC for Dependency injection and Spring JDBC for Data access layer.  • Used Spring AOP to capture performance statistics of CVS and DAO layer methods.  • Involved in requirement analysis and participated in the design of the application using UML and OO Analysis Design and Development.  • Implemented MVC web frameworks for the web applications using JSP/Servlet/Tag libraries that were designed using JSP.  • Used SQL, PL/SQL and Stored Procedures for Oracle back-end database.  • Involved in configuring the database to Oracle9i.  • Involved in developing a branded portal using the administration tool on web Sphere Application server.  • Used JDBC to configure files to access the database.  • Developed and tested Java Server Pages (JSP).  • Developed reusable AJAX components for web-tier.  • Developed customized JSP tags for project.  • Developed reusable DHTML components for enhanced user interaction.  • Monitored/Improved the performance and behavior of web applications.  • Extensively used and configured of Open Source technologies in the project.  • Developed business components for various functionalities.  • Implemented business validations for product pricing and product availability for Order Entry.  • Developed JUnit test cases for unit testing.  • Configured iBATIS2.0 for data access layer with Spring.  • Involved in peer-to-peer code reviews. Involved in usability and accessibility design issues of the system.  • Designed and developed Web pages using JSP, HTML, JavaScript, and JSF.  • Created extensive SQL queries to analyze data flows across multiple databases.    Environment: Java 1.5, JSP, Servlet, Oracle9i, WebSphere, JDBC, JSF, UML, CVS, AJAX, HTML, DHTML, Junit, Spring Framework, JavaScript. Education Bachelor's Skills AJAX (6 years), Java (8 years), JDBC (6 years), jQuery (7 years), Model View Controller (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages: C, C++, Java (J2SE 1.8/1.7/1.6/1.5, J2EE1.5/1.4), SQL, PL/SQL, UML2.0  Technologies: JSP2.1/2.0/1.2, Servlets2.x/3.x, JavaBeans, JDBC, Struts2.x/1.x, RMI, EJB3.0/2.1, Hibernate4.x/3.x, Spring4.0/3.0, Web Services, SOA, JMS1.1, SAX and DOM Parsers, AJAX, JAXB2.1/2.0, JAXP1.x, LDAP, .NET, Sybase Power Designer  Web Technologies: HTML 5/DHTML, XHTML1.1, JavaScript, Jquery, Angular-JS, Typescript, CSS3, XML1.0, XSL, XSLT, CSS  Development Tools (IDEs): Eclipse 3.2/3.0/2.1.1, MyEclipse6.0/5.1.1, RAD7.0/6.0, WSAD5.x/ 4.x, NetBeans3.3, MS Visual Studio 2005  Web/Application Servers: Tomcat 7.x/6.x, Web Logic 10.3/9.2/8.1/7.0, IBM WebSphere6.x/5.x/4.x.  Design Patterns: MVC, Front Controller, Session Façade, Singleton, Business Delegate and DAO patterns  RDBMS: Oracle 12c/11g/10g/9i/8i, MS SQL Server 2008/2005/2000, MySQL5.1/4.1, DB2 9.1/8.1/7.2  Platforms: Windows, UNIX, LINUX  Testing Tools: JUnit 4.x, Load runner 11.0/11.5, Quick Test Pro, HP Performance Center  Version Control: CVS, SVN, VSS and Rational Clear Case.  Methodologies: Agile Methodology, RUP, Extreme Programming  Build Tools: Ant 1.7, Maven 3.x