Sr. Mulesoft Integration Developer Sr. Mulesoft Integration <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Mulesoft Integration Developer Parsippany, NJ • 7+ years of experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including requirements analysis, design specification, code development, code integration, testing and deployment using Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) with Java/J2EE.  • Around 4 years of experience on Mule ESB Enterprise edition. Had an experience working on Mule API manager and RAML over Anypoint Studio, Anypoint Cloud-Hub, API Gateway and Management.  • Mule Certified developer (MCD - Integration and API Associate) expertise in designing and building API's.  • Expertise in developing the integration workflows using an ESB framework. Developed Mule ESB projects for the services with synchronous and asynchronous mule flows.  • Expertise in SOA (service-oriented architecture) frameworks and Web services integration via SOAP, REST, JSON, XML, XSLT, WSDL JAX RS and Java.  • Extensively worked on both Enterprise and Community edition of MULE ESB. Have an experience working Mule API manager and RAML. In-depth experience in CRM business processes like Account Management, Case Management.  • Strong application combination encounter utilizing Mule ESB with Connectors, changes, Routing, ActiveMQ, JMS and RabbitMQ. Information Transformations utilizing Mule ESB.  • Have an experience in integrating Sales force, SAP, spring frameworks, spring beans and web services using Mule ESB.  • Experience in using Mule Connectors like FTP, FILE, SFTP, IMAP, VM as part of Integration Usage.  • Experience in sending Mule Applications to Mule ESB and Mule CloudHub alongside involvement in arranging logging and cautioning in CloudHub.  • Extensive programming experience in developing web-based applications using Java 5/6, JSP, Servlets, Mule ESB, Oracle OSB, EJB, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, JDBC, JavaScript, HTML Libraries and Web-Services etc.  • Experienced in Web Services approach for Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and publishing Web Services both SOAP & REST (consume and implementations) that include several components like SOAP, WSDL, XSD and Apache Axis.  • Strong experience in J2EE design patterns like Data Access Object, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Session Facade, Singleton, Factory, Strategy, Abstract Factory, Adapter, MVC etc.  • Expertise in DB Design, DB normalization, writing SQL queries & PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Sequences, Indexes and Views etc.  • Extensively dealt with Core Java ideas like Multithreading, Inheritance, Abstraction, Encapsulation, Polymorphism, Exception Handling, and Collections Framework.  • Experienced in different IDEs like Eclipse, RAD, and NetBeans, AnyPoint Studio and Maven for Development..  • Followed Waterfall and Agile/SCRUM methodologies of Project management in all aspects of SDLC including analysis, design and review of business and systems requirement specifications, testing methodologies and techniques.  • Excellent Communication skills, analytical skills, including ability to interpret, evaluate customer requirements and implement technical solutions. Work Experience Sr. Mulesoft Integration Developer October 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Used Mule ESB in designing the application as a middleware between the third party system and the customer side system.  • Used spring for bean management across layers and for loading database configuration and hibernate mapping files, created data source instance for instantiating Hibernate Dao Support's session factory object.  • Implemented the project using the Spring Framework (used Spring IOC and d Dependency Injection, Spring MVC).  • Used annotation based configuration in spring.  • Migrated deprecated Data Mapper mapping to Data Weave in MULE ESB.  • Deployed Mule ESB applications into MMC (Mule Management Console).  • Used MUnit to validate mule flows.  • Configuring the Mule process for fetching the data from topic and makes web service calls to the middle tier Mule ESB for processing.  • Strong experience in application integration using Web Services - JAXB, JAX-WS, SOAP, WSDL, JAX-RS, Restful.  • Involved in producing & consuming SOAP based web services.  • Worked on both community and enterprise edition of Mule.  • Developed Uml diagrams for the applications.  • Overridden the mule default functionality of connectors like FTP, SFTP, IMAP based on the requirement by customized the connectors.  • Used Mule ESB to designing of routing schemas, error handling, JMS, VM connection and spring based resource initialization process.  • Used SVN as the version control system and Maven build script for building the application.  • Implemented the web services and web service clients using CXF.  • Good knowledge on analyzing and optimizing the search engine outputs using SEO.  • Worked with JUnit for unit testing and familiar with development using agile methodologies.  • Used scrum methodology for iterative development of the project.  • Worked with symmetry analytic engines for evaluating the patient.    Environment: Mule ESB with mule server, Anypoint studio, Mule Management Console,Spring(IOC), Hibernate, Jenkins, MavenJSP, Ajax, Active MQ JavaScript, JQuery , SOAP, WSDL, J2EE, SQL/PL-SQL, JSP, HTML, Ajax, XHTML, DOM, XML, XML Schema,Rest Web services, SOA, GitHub, Eclipse IDE. Mulesoft Integration Developer Cushman and Wakefield - Johannesburg, Gauteng September 2016 to September 2018 Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in development and testing of the applications. Followed Agile including design, development, implementation, verification and validation, with a two-week sprint process and Implemented SOAP, REST web Services based on SOA.  • Mule data mapping, connecting SOAP and REST web services to Mule and use of Anypoint Connectors and plug-ins for web services, including Mule CXF as well as connectors for direct database access.  • Designed and developed ESB/SOA Mule flows for integration of services with underlying systems, following established enterprise integration patterns based on latest Mule versions (3.5 and up).  • Extensively used Mule components that include File, SMTP, FTP, SFTP, JDBC Connector, and Transaction Manager.  • Used API Designer to design API, built APIs, tested APIs, ran APIs, and manage these through Anypoint platform.  • Developed different integrations which uses Database, Anypoint MQ, and also integrated webservices using SOAP as well as REST using Mule ESB.  • Developed Mule ESB projects for services with synchronous and asynchronous Mule flows.  • Experience in MuleSoft Anypoint API platform on designing and implementing Mule APIs.  • Created Mule flows with different components like HTTP, Salesforce, VM, Transform Message, filters, routers and many others to achieve the required business logic.  • Processed Large CSV files and transformed the data using Dataweave and upserted data in various Salesforce Objects  • Worked on various Mule connectors / adapters, developing API, API management and developing services on CloudHub.  • Worked on custom connectors using Mule 4 for the customer data.  • Involved in developing REST API for API LED architecture to ensure re-usability, scalability and loosely coupled architecture.  • Created http inbound & outbound flows, routing, orchestration, transformations and Security ofMule ESB application using OAuth.  • Used Dataweave to transform data to various formats (XML, CSV, JSON, Pojos, Maps, Cobal, Fixed width).  • Developed WSDL in eclipse. Used SOAP to retrieve provider data and SOAPUI to test Web services.  • Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural Pattern using Spring Framework including JSP, Servlets, EJB, Form Bean and Action classes.  • Strong knowledge and hands on experience in documenting and designing REST API's usingRAML File.  • Created Splunk Lookups, alerts, log parsing, reports, dashboards etc.  • Used Poll with watermarking for triggering the database to pull the updated data and start the application process to push it target system.  • Worked on developing interfaces between Salesforce (SFDC) to ORACLE MuleSofttechnologies.  • Used AWS Code commit as source repository for versioning.  • Created M-unit test cases for Mule flows to attain optimal code coverage.  • Used Anypoint MQs for messaging between different API's in different layers.  • Built and deployment mule projects to Cloud Hub using Maven (Mule-Maven-plugin) through Jenkins  • Implemented Log4j for logging purposes. Used SOAP UI & POSTMAN for testing the application services.  • Implemented choice, global, custom exceptional handling mechanisms based on the business requirements with Mule ESB. Extensively used Dataweave to transform the messages.  • Strong application integration experience using Mule ESB with Connectors, transformations, Routing, AnyPointMQ, ActiveMQ, Azure Service Bus and JMS.  • Defining Integration strategy involving Azure Service Bus, using MuleSoft Service Bus Component and Worked on various modules of the application.    Environment: Java 1.8, AnypointStudio, MuleSoft Runtime 3.8.4,3.9,4.1.2, ActiveMQ, IBM WMQ, Salesforce, XML, Cloudhub, RabbitMQ, Nexus, SOAP - Webservices, Workbench, Jenkins, Apache-Maven, AWS, SOAP Webservices, GitHub, API, RAML, FileZilla, Splunk, OAuth, Putty, Groovy, Postman. Mulesoft Developer Pet Supermarket - Sunrise, FL February 2015 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Responsible and involved in the analysis, defining, prototyping, implementation and deployment of full software development life-cycle (SDLC) of the project.  • Designed and implemented the application in Agile - methodologies.  • Designed the applications using Mule ESB as a middleware between third-party systems and the systems at our customer side.  • Done with preparation of design document specifications, troubleshoots and testing.  • Implemented various REST services using Mule API Platform.  • Developed the integration flows using Mule ESB 3.6.2 framework.  • Performed integrations using different connectors like Sales Force, Database, SAP, HTTP, SFTP, FTP and file connectors.  • Implemented integration flows using Mule Any point studio to connect to REST, SOAP service, Oracle Database, and Active MQ broker.  • Strong experience in documenting and designing REST API's using RAML File.  • Written MUnit test cases to validate the Mule Flows.  • Involved in creating http inbound & outbound flows and orchestration using XPath using MULE ESB.  • Implemented asynchronous messaging using Active MQ.  • Worked on various Mule connectors / adapters, developing API, APM and developing services on Cloud Hub.  • Used Mule ESB for routing, filtering and aggregate message between application based on content and rules.  • Used Data Base Connectors to connect with respective systems using Mule ESB.  • Developing Mule ESB projects for the services with synchronous and asynchronous Mule flows.  • Implemented Mule flows for different modules, which process files and emails from different systems.  • Used Mule Flows with Data Mapper to customize XML to CSV mapping conversion.  • Developing and securing CXF web services in Mule ESB.  • Working knowledge of API management using Anypoint API management tools.  • Involved in writing batch jobs to run at specific schedule times and transformations using Data Weave.  • Experienced in implementing Mule Secure Token Service (STS) OAuth to mule Service Oriented Architecture (SOA)  • Architected Integrations using Mule ESB environments for both On-Premise and Cloud hub environments.  • Used MMC (mule management console) to monitor the request and response payload.  • Configuring the Mule process for fetching the data from topic and makes web service calls to the middle tier Mule ESB for processing and put the data on the Cloud hub.  • Implemented data transformation using XPATH, XSLT, Data Weave, Custom java classes.  • Developed Mule flows to integrate Data from various sources into Database, from ActiveMQ topics and queues, some transformations were also done at the integration layer.  • Develop Message Driven Beans (MDB) & involved in building and accessing a web Services using SOAP over JMS.  • Used Log4Jto capture the log that includes runtime exceptions, monitored error logs and fixed the problems.  • Used AMQP Endpoints to connect to RabbitMQ which is a messaging queue.  • Configured connection pooling using WebSphere application server. Developed and deployed the Application on WebSphere using ANT build.xml script.  • Formulated build and deployment using Maven to deploy the artifacts to Cloud Hub.  • Used Git hub for version control for code commit and update.    Environment: Mule ESB, Anypoint Studio, JAVA, Servlets, JDBC, JAXB, ActiveMQ, RAML, RabbitMQ, APM, Nexus, Maven, Cloud Hub, XML, XSLT, CSS, Ajax, JSTL, WebSphere, LDAP, SQL, Log4J, Web Services - WSDL, SOAP, CXF, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, Jenkins, GitHub. Java/J2EE Application Developer Adroitent Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2013 to April 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering requirements and built technical specifications from the requirements and also involved and participated in Code reviews.  • Designing the application using JISI framework and Spring framework.  • Used Hibernate Transaction Management, Spring/Hibernate Batch Transactions, and Hibernate cache concepts.  • Developed user interfaces using JavaScript, JQuery, HTML, XHTML, CSS custom tags.  • Developed web application using JSP custom tag libraries, Struts Action classes and Action, Java Servlets and Objects using J2EE standards.  • Designed Use Cases, Class Diagrams, and Sequence Diagrams using Visual Paradigm to model the detail design of the application.  • Application was built on JISI- MVC framework and Hibernate as business layer. Designed and developed the GUI using Java Script and JSP.  • Involved in development of Servlets/JSP and documenting all the components clearly.  • Created tile definitions, Struts-config files, validation files and resource bundles for all modules using Struts framework.s  • Extensively used XML Web Services for transferring/retrieving data between different providers and implemented them using CXF Framework.  • Consumed Web Services (WSDL, SOAP, UDDI) from third party for authorizing payments to/from customers.  • Involved working with Oracle 11g database and implemented Exception Handling with custom Exceptions framework.  • Involved in coding for JUnit Test cases, ANT for building the application.  • Created Daily Rolling Log using Log4j and Used PVCS as Version Control System.  • Using WebSphere application server for deploying the web content and all code was written using the Rational Application Developer (RAD) IDE.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Hibernate, J2EE, JISI, Spring, JSP, JDBC, JavaScript, XML, DTD, RAD, IBM WebSphere application server 7.0, JUnit, Log4j, Oracle 11g, SQL, PL/SQL, SQL Developer, Windows. Java/J2EE Developer JDA Software Private Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2012 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in client requirement gathering, analysis& application design.  • Created Use cases, Class Diagrams, and Sequence Diagrams for the system using JUDE UML modeling tool.  • Implemented server side programs by using Servlets and client side by using JSP and designed, developed and validated User Interface using HTML, JavaScript, and CSS.  • Created the UI tool - using Java, XML, DHTML, and JavaScript.  • Extensively used Java Server Pages, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS and HTML for developing visually appealing User Interface pages of the web modules.  • Performed application level logging using log4j for debugging purpose and also involved in fine tuning of application.  • Thoroughly involved in testing phase & implemented test cases by writing with the Junit.  • Wrote stored procedures using PL/SQL for data retrieval from different tables.  • Worked extensively on bug fixes on the server side and made cosmetic changes on the UI side.  • Part of performance tuning team and implemented caching mechanism and other changes.  • Recreated the system architecture and created numerous class and sequence diagrams.  • Developed using Struts Framework, developed action classes, form beans and Struts-Tiles.  • Created combined deployment descriptors using XML and Design and development UI using HTML, JSP and Struts where users have all the items listed for auctions.  • Developed Authentication and Authorization modules where authorized persons can only access the inventory related operations.    Environment: JDK1.4, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XML, Struts, JSP, Servlet, JNDI, J2EE, Tomcat, Rational Rose, Oracle. Education Masters in Information Systems Security in Information Systems Security University of the Cumberlands Skills Api, Xml, Jboss, Db2, Ms sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Http, Soap, Security, Tomcat, Web logic, Websphere, Rest, Apache, Linux, Windows xp, Mac Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Mule: Any Point Studio, Mule EE 3.xx, 4.xx, RAML, DataWeave, CloudHub,  Web Servers: Apache Tomcat, WebSphere, Web logic and JBOSS  Databases: Oracle, Mongo DB, MySQL, IBM DB2, MS SQL Server.  Web: API, SOAP - API, WSDL - API, HTTP, XML, REST, WS-Security.  OS: Windows XP/7/8, Linux, Ubuntu, Mac