Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - PNC Pittsburgh, PA • Over 5+ years of extensive IT experience in developing, design, analysis, testing of various web based, SOA based and client/server applications in multi-platform environments with JAVA/J2EE technologies, Involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  • Highly Proficient in using OOPS for building n-tier architecture systems with hands on development expertise in front-end UI layer, application layer including middleware, core business frameworks and Back-end database layer integration  • Well versed in using software development methodologies like Water Fall, Agile (SCRUM), Test Driven Development and Service orientation architecture  • Expertise in implementation of Core concepts of Java, J2EE Technologies: JSP, JTS, Servlets, JSF, JSTL, EJB transaction implementation, JMS, Struts, Spring, Swing, Hibernate, Java Beans, JDBC, XML, Web Services, JNDI, Swing, Serialization and Externalization  • Experience in design and development of robust and highly scalable web service platforms and API's based on REST and SOAP for e-commerce applications using AXIS, WSDL, UDDI, XML, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, JAXB, JAX-RPC technologies and Jersey frameworks  • Experience in developing web applications on MVC based frameworks like Spring, Spring IOC, Spring Security, Springboot, Spring Batch and Spring MVC  • Experience using J2EE design patterns like Composite View, Value Object, Singleton, Factory, Prototype, Business Delegate, Session Façade Pattern, Service locator, Visitor, Observer, Decorator, Front Controller, DAO, MVC, Abstract Factory and Factory Pattern for reusing most efficient and effective strategies for new development.  • Expertise in XML technologies such as DTD, XSL, XSLT, XML schemas, XPath, XForms, XSL-FO and parsers like SAX, DOM  • Expert in Core Java with strong understanding of Garbage Collector, SWING, Collections, Multithreading, Event handling, Exception handling and Generics  • Expertise in Back-end/server side java technologies such as: Web services, Java persistence API (JPA), Java Messaging Service (JMS), Java Database Connectivity (JDBC), Java Naming and Directory Interface (JND)  • Expertise in open source framework Object Relational Mapping (ORM) tools like Hibernate 3.0 and used Hibernate Annotations to reduce time at the configuration level  • Expertise in databases such as Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server, NoSQL, Mongo DB, and IBM DB2 databases to manage tables, views, indexes, sequences, stored procedures, functions, triggers and packages  • Strong experience in different IDEs like RAD, Eclipse, Spring Tool Suite and IntelliJ IDEA and worked on various application and web servers like JBoss, BES Web Logic, IBM Web Sphere, Glassfish, Camel and Apache Tomcat  • Having experience with Cloud Computing environment like Amazon Web Services (AWS)  • Experience with Selenium, JUnit, Mockito, Log4j in developing test cases and determining application functionality  • Experience in development, deployment and troubleshooting Web based and enterprise based applications on Windows, UNIX and Linux platforms  • Good knowledge on building applications using ANT and Maven  • Experience in using code repository tools - Tortoise SVN, GitHub, and Visual Source Safe  • Strong communication and analytical skills and a demonstrated ability to handle multiple tasks as well as work independently or in a team. Work Experience Java Developer PNC - Pittsburgh, PA March 2019 to Present Description:  PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. (stylized as PNC) is a bank holding company and financial services corporation based in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. The company also provides financial services such as asset management, wealth management, estate planning, loan servicing, and information processing.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology (SCRUM) for developing application.  • Worked with Java 1.8 Streams API and parallel Streams API for enabling parallel processing of collections in distributed environment.  • Creating Rest services as a part of Application migration from Soap Services.  • Developed Restful Microservice from end to end using SPRING boot and JPA technologies, including Mockito unit testcases.  • Developed Spring Boot based services interacting through a combination of REST.  • Implemented O Auth as an authentication for the microservices developed and deployed code in OCP Containers.  • Experience and ability to support Assessment phase and evaluate Design, Code, build / deployments relating to Micro services.  • Involved working with Git version control system and Jenkins release management tool.  • Documented and restructured request and response bodies using Swagger resulting in maintainable code while generating Plain Old Java Objects.  • Configured Version 1 for User Stories creation and application of Agile Methodology. Used GIT, perforce for version control and Performed unit testing using Testing, Junit.    Environment: Java1.8, JDK, Spring 2.5, Web Services, Eclipse, AWS Lambda, Micro Services, Restful Service, Jenkins, Spring Data, XML, JSON, Git, JUnit, oracle 12c, Web logic, Spring MVC, SQL, Log4j. Java/J2EE Developer American Express - Phoenix, AZ November 2017 to March 2019 Description:  American Express is a global services company that provides consumers and businesses with exceptional access to products, insights and experiences that enrich lives and build business success. We make it easier, safer and more rewarding for consumers and businesses to purchase the things they need and for merchants to sell their goods and services through innovative payment, travel and expense management solutions.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in all the phases of SDLC including Requirements Collection, Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications, Development and Customization of the Application.  • Followed complete Agile methodology starting from Product backlog, Sprint Backlog, Sprint Planning, User stories etc.  • Developed AJAX functionalities using frameworks like jQuery and Angular JS. Developed custom directives in Angular JS that could be re-used like a template across the application and can be re-used to manipulate DOM.  • Implementation of REST- API for services and controlling access to the databases. NodeJS for communication between mobile devices and backend.  • I have good experience especially creating Microservices and linking Microservices to service based implementing controller skilled and access through microservice.  • Expertise in implementing Microservices Architecture using Boot Application, Eureka Discovery Service, Eureka Client, Netflix Eureka, Eureka Instance, REST, SOAP, JPA, Hibernate.  • Using Springboot845 which is radically faster in building Microservices and develop spring based application with very less configuration.  • Removed all the XML based configurations required to build the MVC application and maintained in the classes using Springboot.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC, REST API s Springboot for Microservices and Spring Batch for Running Batch Jobs  • Developed Accounting System using Springboot, Spring Data.  • Developed backend web services using Node JS and stored dependencies using NPM.  • Developed REST clients using Spring REST template to interact with existing REST Microservices.  • Implemented Microservices using Springboot, Spring Cloud, Spring Microservices, and enabled discovery using Netflix eureka server.  • Hands-on experience working with Continuous Integration (CI) build-automation tools such as Maven, SVN, CVS, Jenkins and Apache Ant.  • Created SOAP testcases for different test scenarios and integrated the test suite to Jenkins.  • Developed application using Struts MVC, JSP, JSTL on the presentation layer.  • Developed REST-full web services using Struts Framework.  • Built a RESTful API to save and retrieve agent information in Java using Struts MVC, Apache CXF and JAX-RS.  • Modeled Restful web services and Scala using Apache CFX.  • Performed Client-Side Validations using Validation concept of Struts Framework.  • Involved in the development of JSP with custom tags, Java Beans and performed integration into the Application System.  • Extensively involved in struts components development like action mapping in struts deployment descriptor file Action Class for handling the Http request from the front-end.  • Coded the backend functionality using the WCS command design pattern.  • Used the Java Collections API extensively in the application.  • Implemented Enterprise Java Beans (EJB) to interact with the database to insert, update, delete and retrieve values efficiently.  • Performed J2EE application deployment using WebLogic 11 application server on Linux.  • Developed and executed Unit Test cases using J-Unit framework by supporting TDD (Test Driven Development).  • Involved in CICD process using GIT, Jenkins job creation, Maven build and publish and Fabric implementation.  • Involved in development of SQL Queries.  • Involved in writing queries, stored procedures, modifications to existing database structure as required per addition of new features.  • Used JDBC for database connectivity with oracle.  • Involved in creating, modifying and tuning SQL queries, prepared statements and stored procedures used by the application using PL/SQL developer and Oracle 11g as the database.  • Used JNDI lookup in establishing a singleton database connection class using JDBC.    Environment:  Agile, Sprint Backlog and Planning, Java, Struts, Hibernate, Ajax, HTML5, PL/SQL, JDBC, Apache CXF, SOAP, RESTful, Web Services, Eclipse, JSP, JSTL, Servlet, Maven, Jenkins, GIT, XML, Jira, Scala, JUNIT, Jasper Report, Web 2.0, SOA, JMS, EH Cache, Apache Tomcat, IBM WebSphere, WebLogic 11, TTD, Linux, SVN, UML, Oracle 11g Java/J2EE Developer Mercury insurance group - Brea, CA December 2016 to October 2017 Description:  This managing level employee is primarily responsible for overseeing the monitoring and management of all enterprise systems, managing support for all enterprise systems, and managing and facilitating the implementation of planned hardware and software changes.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in deployment of full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the tracking system like Requirement gathering, Conceptual Design, Analysis, Detail design, Development, System Testing and User Acceptance  • Worked in Agile Scrum methodology  • Designed Microservices with best patterns and implemented BFF to access Microservices.  • Created AWS EC2 Linux instances and bash scripts to run post processing. Used Jenkins with Ansible playbooks to run the deployment process. Used S3 buckets to manage document management and RDS to host database.  • Configured the Jenkins to deploy the KAFKA, SWAGGER and SOLR  • Used Jenkins as build management tool.  • Responsible for Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) process implementation using Jenkins along with UNIX Shell scripts to automate routine jobs  • Involved in writing exception and validation classes using core java  • Used Springboot for developing Microservices and used REST API to retrieve data from client-side.  • Developed the functionality for communicating between the modules mostly involved in VIEW and CONTROLLER section of MVC pattern for project, it includes HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular.js, jQuery and AJAX, Bootstrap which were used for UI development  • To trigger the use of the correct environment configuration and In the Springboot approach, we used Spring Profiles to define and activate these configurations.  • Involved in POC for developing a module using Springboot which improved time and efficiency of the process  • Created maven archetypes for generating fully functional Restful web services supporting both XML and JSON message transformation. Archetypes built on Spring 3.0 technology.  • Used AWS SDK for connection to Amazon S3 buckets as it is used as the object storage service to store and retrieve the media files related to the application.  • Involved in provisioning AWS S3 buckets for backup of the application and sync this content with remaining S3 backups, by creating an entry for AWS S3 SYNC in crontab.  • Worked on development of Hibernate, including mapping files, configuration file and classes to interact with the database.  • Spring Batch is used for Batch processing with which notifications are sent in timely manner.  • Used spring framework to the DAO and Bean objects, auto wiring the components.  • Multithreaded Java Swing clients were designed and developed for traded financial products.  • Wrote MongoDB models and schema by using Mongoose to query data. Manipulated data using CRUD operations of MongoDB and handled database access and data transmission based on RESTful web service.  • Validated the XML documents with XSD validation and transformed to XHTML using XSLT  • Implemented cross cutting concerns as aspects at Service layer using Spring AOP and of DAO objects using Spring-ORM  • Spring beans were used for controlling the flow between UI and Hibernate  • Services using SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and XML using CXF framework tool/Apache Commons  • Worked on database interaction layer for insertions, updating and retrieval operations of data from data base by using queries and writing stored procedures  • Created SQL scripts to transfer the data from Oracle to TERADATA  • Wrote Stored Procedures and complicated queries for IBM DB2. Implemented SOA architecture with Web  • Used Eclipse IDE for development and JBoss Application Server for deploying the web application  • Used Apache Camel for creating routes using Web Service  • Used JReport for the generation of reports of the application  • Used Web Logic as application server and Log4j for application logging and debugging  • Used CVS version controlling tool and project build tool using ANT    Environment: Java, HTML, CSS, JSTL, JavaScript, Servlets, JSP, Hibernate, Struts, Web Services, Teradata, Eclipse, JBoss, JSP, JMS, JReport, Scrum, MySQL, IBM DB2, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, AJAX, XML, XSD, XSLT, Oracle, Linux, JBoss, Log4J, JUnit, ANT, CVS Java/J2EE Developer Spire - St. Louis, MO January 2016 to November 2016 Description:  Spire Inc. is a public utility holding company based in St. Louis, Missouri, providing natural gas service through its regulated core utility operations while engaging in non-regulated activities that provide business opportunities. Its primary subsidiary Laclede Gas Company is the largest natural gas distribution utility in Missouri, serving approximately 631,000 residential, commercial and industrial customers in the City of St. Louis and ten counties in eastern Missouri.    Responsibilities:  • Project was developed based on Agile and actively participated in the daily SCRUM meetings to produce quality deliverables on time.  • Interacted with Business Analysts to come up with better implementation designs for the application.  • The front-end use HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap to build a single page web app that communicate with back-end via RESTful API.  • Developed the application using Spring Web MVC framework. Worked with Spring Configuration files to add new content to the website. Worked on the Spring DAO module and ORM using Hibernate.  • Implemented various J2EE Design patterns like Singleton, Service Locator, Business Delegate, DAO, Transfer Object, and SOA.  • Developed services following SOAP architecture and utilized internally developed ESB and JMS.  • Designed and developed Microservices business components using spring.  • Developed Restful Microservices using Spring Rest and MVC, for OSS services.  • Enhanced an existing Java Microservices to retrieve specific customers for a store location based on the user IDs provided.  • Springboot based services interacting through a combination of REST, Spring Cloud.  • Created a request filter plugin to validate and query related product information and then perform a search in FileNet repository that should include results for all related product information along with original entered product.  • To trigger the use of the correct environment configuration and In the Springboot approach, we used Spring Profiles to define and activate these configurations.  • Developed Micro Service to provide RESTful API utilizing Springboot with various data persistence frameworks such as Hibernate and JPA and messaging engines  • Worked with IDE as Spring STS and deployed into spring tomcat server, WebSphere 6 & used Maven as build tool.  • Used Hibernate Template and Hibernate DAO Support for Spring-Hibernate Communication.  • Developed code in Java 1.5, JSP, JSTL, JDBC, SQL and AJAX on platform including Tomcat, MS SQL Server and Oracle. Development tools include Intellij, Maven 2, SVN, Toad, SQL Server Management Studio and JIRA.  • Developed reports on daily trading activity using Apache.  • Implemented the application using concrete principles laid down by several design patterns such as Composite View, Session Facade, Business Delegate, Bean Factory, Singleton, Data Access Object and Service Locator.  • Deployed Microservices as restful Java Web Services on Amazon Elastic Beanstalk.  • Used Amazon S3 for configuration files.  • Designed and built caching subsystem using JBoss and Hibernate. Designed inter-database replication system  • Enabled Microservices with Hystrix for latency and fault tolerance.  • Designed and built document tracking/workflow system using REST architecture.  • Writing REST web services as and when required.  • Developed the DAO layer with Oracle 10g by writing Mongo queries.  • Played a key role in the design and development of almost all the modules of the project.    • Prepared and executed Junit test cases.  • Used Log4j for logging and automatic batch jobs.  • Used SVN Version Control for Project Configuration Management    Environment: Java/J2EE 1.6, IBM FileNet 5.2, JSP 2.0, Servlets 2.4, Spring 3.0, Spring MVC, IOC, AWS, Spring AOP, Hibernate, Microservices, WebLogic Application Server, XML Web service, Apache Tomcat 6.0, Oracle 10g, SQL Server 2005, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap 3.0.3, Angular.JS, IBM MQ, DHTML, XML, XSLT, Eclipse3.0, AJAX, JavaScript, JDBC, Windows XP, Junit , Log4j, SVN. Java Developer Retail IT Sols, INDIA - IN May 2014 to July 2015 Description:  Retails Sols is vertically led ERP solution provider with extensive experience in packaged software implementation, customized solution development and deployment in Retail & CPG domain. Retail Sols enables retail enterprises by understanding their overall needs relevant in their operations space and provides an end-to-end solution that optimizes their investment ROI.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Designing, Coding, Testing, gathering, and analyzing system requirements.  • Involved in protocol designing for communication between server and multiple locos.  • Developed Shared assemblies for reusability of common functionality.  • Drawing line graphs, bar charts and pie charts  • Developed different type of services like communication service for receiving the data from different  locos using socket programming, Multi-threading and decoding the received data.  • The application is based on the MVC-II Architecture using Apache Struts framework.  • Designed and developed user interface screens using HTML, DHTML and JSP.  • Developed and maintained the data layer using the EJB's.  • Used Google Maps for displaying the location of single and multiple locos.  • Wrote Stored Procedures, user-defined functions, triggers in SQL-Server 2008 to handle data  manipulations and data retrievals.  • Used Ant scripts to build and deploy the applications in JBoss application Server.  • Involved in Process Documentation.  • Created and maintained the configuration of the Application Framework.  • Eclipse used as Java IDE tool for creating Action classes and XML files.  • Involved in maintenance of the application.  • Used Jira as a Bug Reporting Tool.    Environment: Unix Shell scripting, Core Java, Struts, EJB, J2ee, Ant, JBoss and MySQL, Html, JavaScript, JDBC, JSP, AJAX, Servlet, UML, Xml, JMS, SQL statements, SQL Server 2008, Jira. Education None Bachelor's