Senior AEM Developer Senior AEM <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr AEM Developer - Verizon(looking for new openings) Basking Ridge, NJ ? Having 8.1 years of experience in IT industry with strong experience in Web content management (WCM) & J2EE development technologies with solid experience of Object Oriented Programming (OOP) as well as Test-Driven Development (TDD) in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) . Specialized in developing end-to-end websites using AEM 5.6.1, 6.1, 6.2, 6.3, 6.4.  ? Over 4.5+ years of hands on experience in development of content management solutions using Adobe CQ5 Content Management System.  ? Created Experience Fragments by customizing XF template.  ? CreatedContent Fragments by creating custom content fragment model.  ? Experience in developing Templates (Static and Editable templates), Custom Components, creating and launching Workflows and customizing out of the box Widgets.  ? Hands-on experience in implementing features from technologies like Sling, OSGi, Felix, JCR, and current AEM functionalities of integrated products.  ? Working on responsive designs using Bootstrap and media queries.  ? Created Client libraries on AEM.  ? Implementation knowledge of i18n on Components and Dialogs.  ? Used Brackets for Sightly (HTL) coding of components and client libraries.  ? Designing TheWorkflow Structure which involves to automate the Specific Process in AEM.  ? Efficient in Dispatcher configuration and Loadbalancing.  ? Proficient Experience in working with Event Handling, OSGI bundles, Sling Listeners, Sling Servlets, Sling Schedulers and Sling Configuration.  ? Experience in creating Workflow packages and using Tag Manager for reading tags from pages.  ? Rich experience in Web Services such as SOAP and Restful.  ? Well versed in designing presentation layer components using Servlets, JSP, HTML, andJavaScript.  ? Worked as an Admin, Giving permissions to user's and usergroups.  ? Proficient in configuration, implementation and integration of Enterprise Multi-tier Web Application with J2EE Frameworks, such as spring, Hibernate, Struts.  ? Provided author training to business users to familiarize them with the design and usage of the system.  ? Created the blueprints and live copy of the application.  ? Rich experienced in writing SQL queries with RDBMS skills in MySQL, Oracle, etc.  ? Hands-on experience using development IDEs including Eclipse, NetBeans and used MAVEN as build tool. Efficient in using Junit for unit testing.  ? Expertise in building client side Middle Tier Development environment using JSP, Servlet, etc.  ? Experienced in using Adobe DynamicTagManagement (DTM) and integration of AEM with AdobeAnalytics and Adobe Target.  ? Experience in Adobe Target content optimization systems.  ? Created multiple versions of same site by using AEMLaunches feature.  ? Experience in version control software such as Git, SVN and in tracking tool as JIRA.  ? Good experience in coordinating and working with developers and End Users in Team based environment. Work Experience Senior AEM Developer Verizon - Basking Ridge, NJ April 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Configured and installation of AEM 6.3 (2017) on the various development, production, QA and predevelopment servers.  ? Involved in Migration planning for AEM 6.4.  ? Created components using Sightly/ HTL.  ? Integrated AEM with developer tools to provide a smooth workflow to edit AEM components and import/export changes to AEM from/to Eclipse.  ? Worked on Client Libraries.  ? Worked on Multi Site Manager (MSM) to develop live copy from blueprint, such that the structure and content can then be used on the Live Copy.  ? Created custom rollout actions for breaking inheritance and addressing analytics text fields not to be part of translation.  ? Implemented Image renditions for continuous and consistent experience of content across all devices.  ? Integrated JIRA system with Workflow functionalities.  ? Writing activation and deactivation workflow models using various components such as process, participant, and dynamic participant steps.  ? Used OSGI r6 annotations while creating servlets, schedulers, listeners, workflows.  ? Implemented AEM Dev Tools to make development easier.  ? Experienced in Adobe Day CQ and associated technologies like Sling, OSGi, Felix, JCR, and CRX.  ? Created Resource Resolver rules in Felix console by having a custom URL mapping.  ? Integrated JIRA with Jenkins for ContinuousIntegration testing. Created new build plans and updating dependencies  ? Integrated Dailog and DesignDailog for all the content based components which allows to render the content dynamically.  ? Implemented i18n for components and dialogs for translation in to different languages.  ? Created custom OSGi services and Servlets using Eclipse IDE with Maven.  ? Created AEMtemplates and page components with custom dialogs.  ? Managed Users, Groups, and SystemUsersand Access Control Level (ACL) permissions.  ? Troubleshoot of caching issues related to Dispatcher and browsers.  ? Integrated ACS AEM Commons with AEM 6.3.  ? Developed mobile site Dialog and mobile Template.  ? Worked on stories related to Adobe CQ/AEM in sprints which include feature development and production issues (AgileScrummethodology)  ? Created OSGi bundles and resolved dependencies for the project.  ? Involved in processing the request through dispatcher by configuring the contextpath of an application in the dispatcher. Any file  ? Created Custom loggers in Felix Console.  Environment: AEM 6.3, AEM 6.4, Java (JDK 1.8), Eclipse, Maven, Apache Felix, Apache Sling, JSP, JIRA, Web Services, JSON, SDLC, Agile, OSGi, Servlets, Sightly HTML, JavaScript, Brackets, CSS, JQuery, JQuery. AEM Developer Genworth - Richmond, VA June 2014 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Created and maintained AEM 6.1 and AEM 6.2 content management systems.  ? Migrated project from AEM 6.1 to AEM 6.2 version.  ? Developed Templates and Components using AEM 6.2 Sightly and the Sling Models.  ? Define/Develop Junitfor classes testing.  ? Worked on Multi Site Management strategy and implementation.  ? Verify/Validate testing to ensure that the team generates high quality output.  ? Develop Custom AEM Workflows, OSGI Services and other Dynamic/Static web content management components. Developed custom components, customized forms for Internet and Intranet sites of the company.  ? Development of the static web pages, landing pages, category landing pages using content management system.  ? Implemented i18n internationalization in the website.  ? Worked on CRX as a repository and accessing the CRX content nodes by SQL Queries and XPath.  ? GIT is used as a distributed revision control system. File vault in conjunction with GIT helps to pull or push the code to developer's machine.  ? Provide estimates, designs, and the specifications for components, AEM templates, and workflows  ? Built various web pages using Java Script, HTML, CSS and JQuery.  ? Setup and configure the Authoring and Publishing environments, replication agents, AEM dispatcher to cache landing pages HTML and serve as the static pages from Apache  ? Using Angular JS to provide services to the different components of portal.  ? Developed custom components, customized forms for Internet and Intranet sites of the company.  ? Held responsible for designing and implementing cloud-based solutions, including private, community and public cloud deployment models.  ? Server monitoring and implementing automated/custom maintenance tasks.  ? Worked on the Angular JS for reading and Posting JSON data.  ? Provided estimates, designs, and specifications for AEM templates, components, and workflows.  ? Built various web pages using HTML, Angular JS, CSS, Java Script and JQuery.  ? Setup and configured Authoring and Publishing environments, replication agents, AEM dispatcher to cache the landing pages html and serve as the static pages from Apache.  ? Used Angular JS to provide services to different components of portal.  ? Worked on Angular JS for reading and Posting JSON data.  ? Worked on Forms customization by developing the custom form fields, writing the custom constraints for form fields and specifying the global validation resource type at the form level.  Environment: Adobe AEM 6.1 and 6.2, DAM, AEM Tagging, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, Java, J2EE, Amazon AWS, Apache Maven, Angular JS, Rally, Restful Web Services, JAXP, JAXB, Axis 2.0, Jersey 1.2, Servlets, JDBC, MS SQL Server, HTML, Angular JS, JSP, AJAX, JUnit, log4j, Linux, Windows, ATTD AEM Developer Goldman Sachs - Jersey City, NJ November 2013 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Designed and developed CQ5 building blocks including Templates, Components, Dialogs, Widgets, and Workflows.  ? Installed and configured version 5.6.1 of Adobe Web Content Management System and Apache Felix Admin Console.  ? Installed CRXDE Integrated development environment and Configuration of the project with Subversion version control.  ? Designed and development of web pages using AEM 5.6.1, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Ajax and JQuery.  ? Developed Adobe AEM 5.6.1 templates and reusable components.  ? Extensively used AEM 5.6.1 tagging features in developing components and templates.  ? Worked on implementing home page and other related pages.  ? Maintained the Content Management System (CMS) and provided support for the application in authoring environment.  ? Used JIRA & Mingle for bug tracking and project tracking.  ? Used Maven to build and generate code analysis reports.  ? Created documentation and project specific configuration as wiki pages in Confluence.  ? Used SVN as version control and integrated with Hudson for continuousintegration and nightly builds.  ? Involved in building, deploying the code and moving code to different environments.  ? Used Log4J for logging and tracing the messages.  ? Involved in supporting the application postproduction and maintenance.  Environment: Java (jdk1.5), JSP, Servlets, Java Script, HTML, CSS, Ajax, jQuery, AEM 5.6.1 (WCM), Apache Sling, CRXDE, CRX, WCM, Jackrabbit, JCR Connector, Windows and Linux, SVN, Hudson. Java/J2EE Developer Novartis Pharmaceuticals - Dallas, TX 2012 to October 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Implementing the Design and developing modules using Agile Methodology. Planning iterations for effective design and development of the Modules.  ? Designed and developed web based UI using JSP, StrutsTaglibs and developed action classes to handle the user request.  ? Developed the User Interface validation frame work in combination of custom validation build on top of Struts validation frame work from the form bean.  ? Implemented EJB's session bean to maintain application session and Entity Beans for the persistence also Implemented methods to validate, keep Alive session for login process & maintaining session credentials.  ? Implemented Spring Beans using IOC and Transaction management features to handle the transactions and business logic.  ? Used DAO design pattern to handle the interaction with Data base (MySQL Server) and Hibernate as ORM to map Java classes to data base tables.  ? Used Hibernate Query Language (HQL) for accessing data from database and created Hibernate POJO Objects and mapped using Hibernate Annotations.  ? Developed SOAP services to talk with adapter classes and exposed them to front-end. Worked on serialize and de-serialize of data in applications using JSON.  ? Used several design patterns like business delegate, DAO, and front controller in the development process.  ? Developed Monitoring, logging and exception handling frame works. Configured several log4j adapters and log4j view Chainsaw.  ? Developed testing frame work for User Interface and server side components using testing frame works like HTTPUnit, and Junitalso Tested components using JunitMockitoduring development.  ? Developed automated Build files, reporting and documentation using Maven. Worked with the business experts to understand existing business processes and determined a shared approach that would serve their business needs using the new packaged application.  ? Used SVN for source code version controlling. Configured development environment using JBOSS application server for developer's integration testing.  Environment: Jdk 1.5, J2EE, JSP, Struts, EJB, Hibernate, SOAP, Log4J, DHTML, XML, MySQL Server, JBOSS server, HTML, JUnit, Data Admin, Eclipse, SVN, Mockito, Maven. Java Developer Citi Bank, India 2010 to December 2011 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Various Stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) deliverables of the project using the AGILE Software development methodology.  ? Involved in daily Scrum meetings, Sprint planning and estimation of the tasks for the user stories, participated in retrospective and presenting Demo at end of the sprint.  ? Gathered and clarified requirements with business analyst to feed into high-level customization design, development and installation phases.  ? Designed the Architecture of the project as per Spring MVC Frame work.  ? Worked with Spring Core, Spring AOP, Spring Integration Framework with Hibernate.  ? Developed Data Access Objects (DAO's) for easy data access.  ? Involved in modifying some changes in DAO layer using Hibernate.  ? Developed International Error Correction Screens using custom front-end forms using XML, XSLT, CSS, JavaScript and proprietary tools.  ? Involved in customizing the User Interfaces (UI) as per the client requirement.  ? Consumed web services and were called using JAX-RPC SOAP protocol, WSDL descriptor file and Universal Description, Discovery and Integration Registry (UDDI)  ? Created process flow for deploying application in Web Logic environment.  ? Used Oracle 10g Database, SQL and PL/SQL to perform data mapping and backend testing. Also documented all the SQL queries for future testing purpose.  ? Back-end development of enhancements and customizations to the database scripts, triggers, stored procedures.  ? Implemented Automated Build System for Innovation using Ant Build System.  ? Used Log4j, Junit for logging and Testing.  ? Responsible for the dealing with the problem, bug fixing and troubleshooting.  ? Involved in unit and system testing.  Environment: Java (JDK 1.6), Eclipse 3.5, Weblogic 10.0, Oracle 10g, Spring, Hibernate, PL/SQL, HTML, Web Services, Java Script, Log4j, Junit, ANT. Education Bachelor of Technology in Information Technology Viswa Bharathi College Of Engineering, JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2011 Skills HTML (8 years), JAVA (8 years), CSS (6 years), JUNIT (6 years), JSP (6 years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information TECHSKILLS:    J2EE Technology Java Beans, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, EJB, JNDI, JMS  Architecture &Framework Client-Server, MVC, J2EE, Servlets, Struts, Spring, Hibernate  Database Oracle (9i, 10g, 11g), SQL Server 2008, MySQL  IDE Eclipse, Net Beans, IBM RAD, Builder  Enterprise Web Products AEM 6.4, 6.3, 6.2, 6.1, 5.6.1  Operating Systems Windows 9x/NT/XP/2003/VISTA/7/8, Linux, Unix  Design & Control UML, Rational Rose, CVS, Clear Case  Tools  BEA Web Logic 8.1, JBOSS V7, IBM Web sphere Application  Server6.1, Tomcat 8.0, JUnit 4.0, Log4j, Mercury Quality Centre,  Rational Clear Quest, ANT, Maven, Jenkins, SVN, Toad    Programming Language C, Java  Query Languages SQL, PL/SQL  GUI HTML, Angular JS, XML, XSLT, JSF, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS, Sightly, Foundation 5, JQuery, Bootstrap.  Conceptual knowledge Web Services.