Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java/J2EE Developer - Grosvenor Capital Management Chicago, IL • 7+ years of experience in software development includes Analysis, Design and Development of quality software for Standalone Applications and Web-based applications using JAVA/J2EE Technologies using Software Development Methodologies / Frameworks like SDLC, OOAD and AGILE.  • Experience in developing web applications using Java/J2EE concepts like OOP, Data Structures, Multithreading, Collections, JDBC, JSP, Servlets, JMS, Hibernate, Spring, Web Services and Java Beans.  • Developed web applications based on different Design Patterns such as Model-View-Controller (MVC), Data Access Object (DAO), Singleton Pattern, Factory Pattern, Abstract Factory Pattern, Prototype Pattern etc..  • Experience in Frontend development using JSP, JSP Tag Libraries, JSF, Servlets, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, HTML5, jQuery, JavaScript, Ajax, AngularJS, Bootstrap, NodeJS and CSS.  • Well experienced with XML parsing technologies like SAX, DOM, JAXB, JiBX and using XSLT.  • Good working knowledge on Spring Core, Spring ORM, Spring DAO and Spring MVC architectures.  • Hands on Experience in JDBC and Hibernate for persisting data to different relational databases and extensive knowledge in Java Persistence API.  • Proficient in using RDBMS concepts with Oracle, MySQL and experienced in writing SQL and No SQL, PL/SQL Stored procedures, Triggers and Views.  • Good Experience in implementing Web Services such as SOAP and RESTful API using WSDL, JAX-WS and JAX-RS.  • Well experienced in configuring and deploying applications onto application servers like Tomcat6.x/7.x, JBoss, Web Logic8.x/10.x, Glassfish and Web Sphere6.x/5.x.  • Used Log4J for enabling runtime logging and performed system integration test to ensure quality of the system.  • Knowledge in using Apache POI for to creating, modifying, and displaying MS Office files using Java programs in java.  • Experience in using SOAP UI tool to validate the web service.  • Expertise in writing unit test cases using JUnit API and Mockito.  • Experienced in using Selenium for testing.  • Experienced in writing test cases using WebDriver and TestNG.  • Investigation and Implementation of public facing websites on Amazon Web Services(AWS).  • Good knowledge in using Maven and ANT Scripts for building and deploying the application in web/app servers.  • Extensive experience in using IDE tools like Eclipse, Netbeans and RAD.  • Highly Self-motivated, good technical, communications and interpersonal skills. Able to work reliably under pressure. Committed team player with strong analytical and problem solving skills, ability to quickly adapt to new environments & technologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Grosvenor Capital Management - Chicago, IL October 2015 to Present Description: Grosvenor Capital Management is a privately owned hedge fund sponsor and a private equity firm specializing in primary fund investments, secondary fund investments, and co-investments with a focus on buyout, distressed debt, mezzanine, infrastructure, real estate, venture capital/growth equity investments. The firm primarily provides its services to pooled investment vehicles. It also provides its services to investment companies and pension and profit sharing plans. The firm invests in the alternative investment markets of the United States and internationally.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) like Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of the project.  • Designed Class diagrams and Sequence diagrams in the detailed design phase of the project using Rational Rose.  • Followed agile methodology to maintain the system performance and minor works development.  • Actively participated in gathering requirements and analysis.  • Actively involved in weekly status meetings.  • Implemented various J2EE Design Patterns such as Model-View-Controller, Data Access Object and Factory Pattern.  • Designed Front-end Screens using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angularjs, jQuery, JSTL, JSP, AJAX, NodeJS and Bootstrap.  • Developed the MVC architecture using Spring framework.  • Spring framework is used to implement Inversion of Control (IOC) and Aspect Oriented programming (AOP).  • Used Hibernate framework for data persistence layer. Involved in creating the Hibernate POJO Objects and mapped using Hibernate Annotations.  • Used JPA for data persistence, and JTA for transaction management  • The Java Message Service (JMS) API is used to allow application components to create, send, receive, and read messages.  • Developed and implemented the business logic component in middle tier using EJB framework including stateless session classes and Entity bean classes.  • Implemented the Web Service and associated business modules integration.  • Worked on generating the web services classes by using Service Oriented Architecture SOA, WSDL, UDDI and SOAP.  • Used SOAP UI for testing the Web services by sending an SOAP request.  • Developed Web services to allow communication between the applications using Rest Web Services.  • Implemented procedures, packages, triggers, and different Joins to retrieve the data base using PL/SQL, SQL scripts, No SQL. Created DDL, DML scripts to create tables and privileges on respective tables in the database.  • Source control using Git and Github.  • Jenkins and Maven scripts for automating the process of building, testing and deploying the system.  • Developed Maven scripts for various tasks to automate the build process and for the deployment of the application in WebSphere server  • Developed and Designed the QA Automation for the existing system using Selenium web driver and testNG.  • Used Hybrid, Keyword/Data Driven Framework and extracted data from external Excel files using Apache POI and loaded into the variables in the scripted code.  Environment:  J2EE, JAVA, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, Spring, EJB, Hibernate, JPA, JTA, JMS, JNDI, Oracle, SOAP, SOAP UI, RESTFUL web services, RabbitMQ, SQL, No SQL, MongoDB, Git, Github, WebSphere, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, Bootstrap, AJAX, MVC design pattern, Selenium, Apache POI, Jenkins, Maven. Java/J2EE Developer LexisNexis - Raleigh, NC April 2013 to September 2015 Description: Lexis Advance provides access to U.S. federal and state law sources as well as sources of international law and the laws of a growing number of other jurisdictions. Sources vary by jurisdiction, but may include constitutions, legislation, legislative history, statutory codes, regulations, regulatory materials, cases, case digests, citators, public records, law reviews, treatises, and general and legal news.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in planning process of iterations under the Agile TDD (Test Driven Development) methodology.  • Analyzed and modified existing code wherever required and Responsible for gathering, documenting and maintaining business and systems requirements, and developing designs document.  • Prepared the detailed functional requirements along with screenshots and description of all the modules.  • Developed Use case diagrams, Object diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using UML.  • Designed and developed the UI using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, jQuery, JSP, JSF, JSTL and Bootstrap.  • Developed custom directives (elements, Attributes and classes) using Angular.js.  • Implemented Spring 3.1 Framework for Dependency injection, Spring Web Services framework.  • Utilized Hibernate for Object/Relational Mapping purposes for transparent persistence onto the SQL Server database.  • Used SQL and DB2 as back end and developed Stored procedures, Batch jobs, triggers.  • Analyzed Performance of application using Dynatrace.  • Developed Web services using SOAP and REST for communication between applications using JAX-WS and JAX-RS.  • Developed Message Driven Bean (MDB) components for JMS messaging  • Involved in the deployment process of the application on WebSphere Application Server.  • Maven was used for the entire build process and developed Maven scripts for various tasks to automate the build process  • Eclipse as IDE for developing and debugging the application  • Performed Unit Testing of on various components using JUnit Mockito.  • Created test framework on Selenium and executed Web testing in Chrome, IE and Mozilla through Web driver.  • Used SVN as version control tools to maintain the code repository.  • Involved in enhancements of the system and worked on fixing bugs and supporting the entire system.    Environment: J2EE, JAVA, Servlets, Spring, Hibernate, sql, DB2, Dynatrace, SOAP, RESTFUL web services, JMS, SVN, Websphere, HTML, CSS, JSP, JSF, JavaScript, AngularJS, Bootstrap, MVC design pattern, JUnit, Mockito, Selenium, Maven. Java Developer PNC Bank - Dayton, OH October 2012 to March 2013 Description: PNC Bank is a mortgage banking company that specializes in the servicing of residential mortgage loans. This System is to assist PNC finance division to recover money from defaulters. This system helps recovery department agents to interact with borrowers and analyze the reason for default, current financial status of the borrower etc., this system will help the agent to come up with recovery plan to collect default amount from the borrower.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed all frontend and backend modules required for the integration.  • Involved in Writing Use Case Documents, UML diagrams and Project Design Documents using Rational rose.  • Developed various helper classes needed following core java multithreaded programming and collection classes.  • Designed Front-end Screens using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angularjs, jQuery, JSTL, JSP, AJAX, NodeJS and Bootstrap.  • Integrated Spring (Dependency Injection) among different layers of an application.  • Worked on Persistence layer from simple DAO to Spring/Hibernate.  • Created and maintained the configuration of the Spring Application Frameworks IOC Container.  • Hibernate used as ORM tool for persisting the data, created and maintained mapping files and transaction control in Hibernate.  • Developed various modules using MVC Struts.  • Used struts tag libs for developing user interfaces.  • Involved in writing PL/SQL stored procedures, functions, tuning SQL Queries and Procedures.  • Designed and Developed Web Services using technologies UDDI, WSDL, SOAP to communicate to the other modules.  • Implemented Restful webservice with the use of URI templates and content negotiation.  • Used SOAP UI for testing the Web services by sending an SOAP request.  • Involved in writing JUnit test cases.  • Created Unix shell script utilities for parsing or reformatting user data and compiling user information reports for various support purpose.  • Used ANT build script to build the application and deployed on WebLogic application server.  • Building the Project development environment in Eclipse IDE and debugging the application using Eclipse.  • Source control using Git and Github.  • Implemented Agile Software methodology for this application.  • Participated in the performance tuning of application.  • Involved in the detecting the code redundancy thus improving the application performance.    Environment: Java, Jdk 1.5, HTML, CSS, AngularJS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSP, Spring, Hibernate, Servlets, Struts, EJB, CSS, Unix, Eclipse,Weblogic Application Server, Git, Github, ANT, JDBC, XML, Log4j, JUnit, SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle, JAXB,JAX-WS, JAX-RS, SOAP UI. Systems Engineer Digital Nirvana - Hyderabad, Telangana December 2011 to August 2012 Description: Digital Nirvana provides knowledge management solutions for an increasingly media-centric world. Products and services enable large volumes of data to be automatically acquired, compiled, and organized for analysis, troubleshooting, and decision-making.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the analysis, design, and development and testing phases of application using AGILE SCRUM methodology.  • Implemented MVC architecture application using Spring, JSP & Java beans.  • Extensively Used JavaScript and Ajax to provide the users with interactive, Speedy, functional and more usable user interfaces.  • Designed the Front-end screens using JSP, HTML, CSS and JSON.  • Created and maintained the configuration of the Spring IOC Container.  • Developed Business Layer and DAO Classes and wired them using Spring Framework.  • Integrated spring (Dependency Injection) among different layers of an application  • Integrated Hibernate with Spring for persistence layer  • Spring AOP for cross cutting concerns like logging and exception handling  • Developed SOAP based Web Services.  • Developed and deployed EJB like Entity Beans and Session Beans.  • Supported the applications through debugging, fixing and maintenance releases.  • Involved in the Maintenance and Code changes from existing code, Support of the System.  • Involved in the configuration management using SVN.  • Jenkins and Maven scripts for automating the process of building, testing and deploying the system.  • Developed the test cases using JUnit to test.  • Deployed application in WebLogic Application Server.  • Created several Exception classes to catch the error for a bug free environment and logged the whole process using log4j, which gives the ability to pinpoint the errors.  • Involved in communicating with offshore team to resolve the applications production issues and to deliver the best quality application enhancements to the client.    Environment: Java, J2EE, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSP, JSON, AJAX, Servlets, Spring, Spring MVC, Hibernate, SOAP, Jenkins, Maven, JUnit, SVN, WebLogic, Log4j Junior Java Developer Shoerey Digital Systems - Bengaluru, Karnataka August 2010 to November 2011 Description: Worked on Content Aggregator, a Walt Disney's content Management system. A multimedia entertainment based domain. Content importer will pull or receive content from the various content sources and create live event or video content objects.. During the import process, the system will also create a group in the Social Content Services for each media asset (live event or video clip) per locale. The ID of the Social Content group is stored in the Localized Video content object for the localized media. Used Microsoft SQL as a backend database and Tomcat as our application server.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirements gathering and analysis from the existing system. Captured requirements using Use Cases and Sequence Diagrams.  • Designed web portals using HTML & used Java script, AJAX.  • Used Spring IOC for dependency injection and Spring AOP for cross cutting concerns like logging, security, transaction management.  • Integrated Spring JDBC for the persistence layer  • Developed DAO Classes and written SQL for accessing Data from the database  • Used XML for the data exchange and developed Web Services.  • Deployment of the application into WebSphere Application Server.  • Implemented ANT build tools to build jar and war files and deployed war files to target servers.  • Implemented test cases with JUnit.  • Used RAD for developing and debugging the application  • Utilized Rational Clear Case as a version control system and for code management  • Coordinated with the QA team and participated in testing.  • Involved in Bug Fixing of the application.    Environment: HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, Spring, WebSphere, ANT, JUnit, RAD, Clearcase. Education Bachelor's Skills Ajax (5 years), Angularjs (6 years), Application server. (5 years), Css (7 years), data base (7 years), Html (8 years), Java (8 years), Javascript (8 years), Jms (5 years), Jsp (7 years), Maven (6 years), Rational (5 years), Selenium (5 years), Servlets (7 years), Soap. (7 years), Sql (7 years), Testing (8 years), Ui (6 years), User interface (6 years), web services (8 years) Additional Information Technical Skills  Programming Languages Java 1.6/1.7/1.8, C, C++, SQL, PL/SQL    Technologies JSP, JSF, Servlets, JDBC, EJB, JMS, Java Beans, SOAP, JAXP, AJAX, CSS, ILOG, JTA  Web Technologies HTML, DHTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, AngularJS  Distributed Technologies EJB, JMS, JNDI  Application Server WebLogic, JBoss, Apache Tomcat, Glassfish, Web Sphere  JAVA Frameworks & Tools HIBERNATE, SPRING, WEB SERVICES (SOAP & RESTful), AWS, ANT Building tool, Log4J, Maven Building tool.  IDE's Eclipse, RAD  Database(s) Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g, DB2, MySQL  Version Control Tools Rational Clearcase, SVN, Github  Testing Tools JUnit, Selenium, TestNG, Mockito, SOAP UI  Modeling Tools Rational Rose, UML, OOAD, RUP    Operating Systems Windows, MS-DOS, UNIX