Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Polycom Inc San Jose, CA • Around 8+ years of experience in IT including analysis, design, development, maintenance, testing and production support of application software.  • 6 years of extensive knowledge of Salesforce.com CRM and 2+ years of Java Development  • Experienced in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as Requirements Gathering, Project Design, Development, Support and maintenance phases to meet requirement of the project.  • Proficiency in SFDC Administrative tasks like creating Profiles, Roles, Users, Page Layouts, Email Services, Approvals, Workflows, Reports, Dashboards, Actions, Tasks and Events.  • Strong experience working with Apex classes, Triggers, Controllers and Controller Extensions Visual Force, SOQL, SOSL.  • Acquainted with all the onerous tasks that appertain Sales cloud , Service Cloud , Marketing cloud & community cloud  • Significant Experience in handling all the administrative tasks. Extensive experience working with Salesforce CPQ, Wave Analytics and Salesforce Lightening.  • Experience in Salesforce Lightning-Upgrade, migration, setup and development. Worked on Lightning Experience, Lightning connect and Lightning Component.  • Experience in implementing security and sharing rules at object, field, and record level for different users at different levels of organization. Also created various profiles and configured the permissions based on the organizational hierarchy.  • Experience in implementing Salesforce Custom objects, Custom fields, Junction objects, Master-Detail relationships and Look-Up relationships.  • Excelled in working with various Salesforce.com Standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Opportunities, Products and Price books, Cases, Leads, Campaigns, Forecasting, Reports and Dashboards.  • Experience in integration of Salesforce with Third party and middleware applications using SOAP and REST web services.  • Extensive experience in App Exchange and familiar with the usage of Trial Force org and deployment using Change sets.  • Excellent skills in programming languages like Java, C# and C++ and experience in web technologies like HTML, XML and JavaScript.  • Implemented Salesforce.com web services client using Sales force web services API, Java, XML and partner WSDL.  • Experienced working with salesforce.com sandbox and production environments and also used eclipse IDE force.com plug-in environments.  • Worked with Auditing tools ,Data Management tools , Data loader , reports & dashboards  • Abundant experience in data migration integration using data loader.  • Extensive work experience working in an Agile development Environment using JIRA, Closely worked with QA team.  • Performed work flows, e-mail services and approval processes using customization & Apex.  • Good experience in Web Service - Synchronous & Asynchronous, web service factory.  • Delivered working with highly technical product teams.  • Excellent problem-solving skills with a strong technical background and good interpersonal skills.  • Excellent communication and inter-personal skills; accustomed to working in both large and small team environments. Work Experience Java Developer Polycom Inc - San Jose, CA January 2019 to Present Description: Polycom provides solutions to customers that enable their geographically dispersed workforces to communicate and collaborate more effectively and productively over distances  Responsibilities:  • Developed Custom business logic using Apex Classes, Triggers, Components, Visual Force pages and Controller Classes for various functional needs.  • Deployed Apex using Force.com IDE, Force.com Migration Tool and Web Services API.  • Implemented CSS for Visual Force pages and experience working with Partner portal system and designed Visual Force Pages with Html along with custom controllers and controller extensions.  • Created Custom Visualforce components and attributes to override the look and feel of standard Visualforce components.  • Responsible for designing the application in n-tier fashion as per struts based MVC architecture standards.  • Used various J2ee Design patterns to develop the Business modules based on the required functionality.  • Responsible for developing the application level flow by utilizing Java, JSP and Struts.  • Created Visualforce pages that could be rendered as PDF's, build dashboard components and define email templates.  • Customized objects and fields using master detail relationship, look up relationship depending on the requirements.  • Created page layouts, validation rules and workflow rules.  • Worked as a legacy for creating new roles and profiles in the organization.  • Created new user accounts and configure Salesforce to fit security needs at the user and organization levels.  • Developed automated workflows and approval processes for sales opportunities and lead routing.  • Worked on Salesforce Lead management, Accounts and Contact management system.  • Worked on Data Migration from Databases to Salesforce using Apex Data Loader, generated SOSL and SOQL statements to search the information.  • Built APIs with Salesforce.com Apex SOAP/REST Services.  • Responsible for migrating developed packages from different sandbox instances. Development Sandbox, QA sandbox, SIT sandbox and UAT sandbox.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, WSDL, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Java, MVC, JavaScript. Salesforce Administrator/ Developer Blue Health Intelligence - Tampa, FL July 2017 to January 2019 Description: Siemens is the leading industry giant in making turbines, electrical components etc. The Global parts risk analysis module maintains the records of the customers' data with a detailed description of the components or the technology solutions which are provided by Siemens.    Responsibilities:  • Interacted with the business stake holders(VP, Director, Project Manager) from Sales, Marketing, Business Ops, Finance etc.,  • Implemented various Apex Classes, controller classes and Apex triggers for various needs of the application.  • Worked with SOQL & SOSL queries within custom controllers, extensions and triggers  • Configured Salesforce.com to meet business requirements - including fields, page layouts, workflows, approvals and validation rules.  • Developed Visualforce pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript.  • Created various custom Reports and Dashboards as per the customer requirements.  • Developed and configured various Custom Reports and Report Folders for different user profiles based on the needs in the organization.  • Developed lightning pages and displayed it in community builder.  • Created mashup between Salesforce CRM and Gmail through force.com App exchange's email integration engine.  • Worked with Salesforce CPQ and delivered accurate Sales quotes, automated invoicing processes and managed the bill payments.  • worked on Sales cloud in opportunity management, account management and made new feature enhancements on Service cloud console view.  • Involved in Salesforce.com Application support activities and developed customer portal for created application for portal users match the functional needs of the organisation.  • Use Data Loader to insert, update, and bulk import or export of data from Salesforce.com objects and to read, extract and load data from comma separated values (CSV) files.  • Experience with Lightning after organization moved to lightning from classical salesforce.  • Implemented Salesforce Lightning Components for small set of users for customizing reports and dashboards.  • Utilized the Lightning Connect to obtain real time data from external system.  • Worked on continuous Integration with GitHub using Jenkins .Documented all the Stand-up meetings, Project management plans and many other documents.  • Experience working in an Agile development environment.  • Collaborated with the QA team in reviewing and validating test plans and test cases, and ensure that the application meets user requirements.  • Implemented Salesforce.com customizations and drove user acceptance testing (UAT).  Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Lightning, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, CPQ, Q2C, WSDL, Custom Tabs, Email Services. Salesforce Developer Charter Communications - Charlotte, NC November 2015 to July 2017 Description: The not-for-profit company's insurance offerings include traditional indemnity, PPO, and POS plans, in addition to its Blue Care Network HMO plans. The organization is an independent licensee of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association  Responsibilities:    • Participated in gathering requirements and defining the Entity Relationship diagrams.  • Customized tabs and worked with various standard objects including Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns and Cases.  • Designed, Implemented and deployed the Custom objects, Page layouts, Custom tabs, Components to suit to the needs of the application.  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on record detail and edit pages.  • Designed, developed and deployed Apex Classes, Controller Classes, Extensions and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application using the Eclipse IDE.  • Developed Visual Force Pages, Visual Force Custom Controllers Components, Advanced Search Functionality, Custom Objects, Analytic Snapshots, Tabs, Tags and Components.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, time-triggered tasks, email alerts and field updates to implement business logic.  • Created Custom Objects and defined lookup and master-detail relationships on the objects. Also created junction objects to establish connectivity among objects.  • Created mash up between sales force CRM and Gmail through Force.com AppExchange's Email integration engine.  • Performed the role of support engineer for the internal users and helped them in getting used to the application, generated reports and saved them for further access to the users.  • Used Force.com web service API for implementing WSDL in the application for access to data from external systems and web sites.  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, WSDL, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls Sr. Salesforce Developer/Administrator Siemens - Orlando, FL September 2013 to November 2015 Description: The various modules of the application in CC were used by customers for corporate communication, project management, customer and sales channel management, human resource management, accounting, knowledge & learning management, internal social networking, etc.  Responsibilities:    • Responsible for collecting the requirements and translating them in functional tasks.  • Managed and created Leads, made appropriate conversions- Accounts, Contacts, Opportunities were created as well  • Followed agile methodology  • Performed analysis of the business, coined a CRM solution for the business problem. Maintained data securely, responsible for any loss/misuse of data.  • Performed data cleaning and data analysis.  • Implemented CPQ using Apttus to increase efficiency of deal cycle.  • Used workflow rules to create alerts and updates  • Integrated Salesforce.com with API's, created email template in HTML and visual force  • Effectively used Apex triggers, apex classes and apex methods for different functional tasks. Used sandbox for testing.  • Connected with the customers, partners and employers for data work that should be done using community cloud.  • Responsible for conducting meeting with stake holders to keep them update with the project status  • Documented several important documents, and maintained security for confidential data using security rules  • Worked on custom report types, Interfaces, roles, security and sharing settings  • Developed business logic in Apex programming using Eclipse IDE  • Responsible for data acquisition, data mapping and integration into data base  • Configured data loader, Monitored User adoption rates and responded accordingly  • Increased the efficiency by 30% using Salesforce.com platform  • Designed an effective model that benefits both the bank and customer in paying Interest  • Apex methods were used in developing the business logic  • Ensured that quality code is delivered and participated in several community discussions  • Supervised invoices, estimated Level of Effort and maintained confidentiality  • Frequently interacted with official and unofficial clients.    Environment: Force.com declarative , Apex , developer console , Visual force , Sandboxes Jr Java Developer Caterpillar - Bengaluru, Karnataka August 2011 to September 2013 India    Responsibilities:  • Gathered Business Requirements and meeting different users for developing the application.  • Developed Web Services for saving and updating order details, including some other common services which include Protocol Services etc.  • Mapped and managed Object/table relationships in Hibernate.  • Defined and developed the User interface screens and the corresponding Java artifacts using spring.  • Presentation tier was developed using JSP, JSTL, Java Script, HTML and CSS.  • Performed Client side validations using Java script.  • Implemented various useful design patterns including Singleton and Data Access objects etc.  • Implemented business logic using Servlets.  • Implemented Tag handler classes using Custom Tags.  • Developed Restful Web Services.  • Message flows for routing and transformation of the web services requests.  • Wrote SQL queries and stored procedures to interact with the DB.  • Utilized Tomcat Application Server environment to implement business logic.  • Performed Unit testing and prepared new test case documents.    Environment: Apache Tomcat 1.7, Java1.7, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Eclipse, JDBC, Adobe Flash Programming, SQL, JavaScript, XML, HTML, database, Apache Server. Skills Apex, Eclipse, J2ee, Java, jquery, Android studio, Exchange, Git, Jenkins, Svn, Xml, Crm, Css, Sharepoint, Android, Angularjs, Html5, Database, Db2, Sql server Links http://Salesforce.com Additional Information Technical Proficiencies:    Salesforce Technologies:  Apex, SOQL, SOSL Triggers, Batch Apex, Lightning, Visual Force Pages/Components.SControls, Apex WebServices, Apex Language, Apex Classes/Controllers, Data Loader, Apex Data Loader, Apex Exchange, Sandbox    CRM Tools: Salesforce.com, Service Cloud, Chatter, Communities, Sales Cloud, Service Console  Programming Languages: JAVA, PL/SQL, Apex, J2EE  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS, Java script, XML, jQuery, WSDL, AngularJS  Tools: MS Office, Eclipse IDE, JIRA, Jenkins, Demand tools, SVN SharePoint GIT, Maven  Database: MySQL, Oracle 10g, Oracle 11g, SQL Server, DB2  IDE: Eclipse, Android Studio  Operating systems: Windows, Linux, Unix, Mac OS