Sr. Fullstack Java Developer Sr. Fullstack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Fullstack Java Developer - Northern Trust Chicago Midway International Airport, IL • Over 8+ years of strong experience in software development using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Experience in development and deployment of applications using JBoss, Web Logic Application Server, IBM Web Sphere Application and Apache Tomcat.  • Experience in the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) phases which include Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance.  • Well versed in using Software development methodologies Agile Methodology, Scrum and Waterfall software development processes.  • Well versed with core Java concepts like Collections, Multithreading, Remote Method Invocation (RMI), Serialization, and Java Beans.  • Experience with Object Oriented Analysis and Design methodology using tools like Unified Modeling Language (UML) and Rational Unified Process (RUP) using Rational Rose.  • Experience with advanced front-end technologies like HTML, DHTML, JSON, JQuery, CSS, XML, JavaScript and Angular JS.  • Worked on implementing SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) using XML Web services (SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and XML Parsers)  • Experience in developing web applications using SOAP based Web services - SOAP, WSDL, AXIS, and JAX-WS and RESTful Web Services  • Experience in applying Java Messaging Service (JMS) for reliable information exchange across Java applications.  • Experience with Java complaint IDE's like Eclipse.  • Experienced in database design, data analysis and development in DB2, Oracle, and writing SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages and Triggers.  • Experience in writing ANT and Maven scripts for project development and deployment.  • Hands on experience with JUnit, Advanced Rest Client and Log4j in developing test cases and determining application functionality.  • Worked with version control systems like Clear case, SVN, CVS, GIT, etc.  • Highly motivated team player with the ability to work independently and adapt quickly to new and emerging technologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Fullstack Java Developer Northern Trust - Chicago, IL June 2016 to Present Responsibilities:    • Participated in daily scrum meetings, sprint planning, product backlogs.  • Implemented business layer using Core Java, Spring Beans using dependency injection, Spring annotations, and Spring MVC components.  • Used Angular JS, XHTML, HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript framework for creating Dynamic Reach Design Layout with JSP.  • Used Angular JS for synchronizing java applications and client side scripting.  • Created Spring MVC components like Dispatch servlets, configure Request mapping annotation controllers, view resolver components.  • Implemented Hibernate Inheritance strategies to map relation between tables and configured many-many relationship using Hibernate annotations.  • Designed and Developed Highly Concurrent Multithreaded SOA Integration components leveraging capabilities of WebSphere.  • Developed service components which are exposed as Web Services using restful Web Services, developed service components to consume Web Services.  • Created RESTful Web service for updating customer data from sent from external systems.  • Worked on triggers and stored procedures on Oracle database.  • Worked on Eclipse IDE to write the code and integrate the application.  • Used GIT as Version Control.  • Wrote MS SQL queries to save the data and retrieve the data from database using spring mongo data repository.  • Used Maven tool to build, config, and packaged, deploy an application project.  • Developed Junit test cases to validate the REST services.  Environment: Core Java, J2EE, Spring, Servlets, Hibernate, CSS, HTML, GIT, XML, AJAX, Angular JS, Eclipse, JUnit, JavaScript, Oracle, IBM WebSphere, PL/SQL, Scrum, RESTFul Web Services, ANT, Eclipse, Windows. Fullstack Java Developer AutoNation Inc - Fort Lauderdale, FL November 2014 to June 2016 Responsibilities:    • Actively involved in the sprint planning sessions of the Agile SCRUM methodology with Architecture, BA and QA teams.  • Implemented various Java design patterns like Front Controller, Service Locator, Business Delegate, Data access Object, Singleton, and Session Façade.  • Used Spring MVC framework controllers for Controllers part of the MVC.  • Developed the User interface screens using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX and JSON.  • Wrote AngularJS Controllers, Views, and Services for new website features.  • Developed Client side scripts using JavaScript/JQuery and AJAX for asynchronous calls.  • Developed Restful Web Services for the web layer of the application and SOAP JAX-WS Web Services for middle layer service classes in communication with other applications.  • Integrated Spring IOC (Dependency Injection) among different layers of an application.  • Used Spring framework for dependency injection, ORM, transaction management.  • Implemented ORM in the persistence layer using Hibernate frame work and Spring Aspect Oriented Programming (AOP) functionality for common exception handling and transaction management  • Developed DAO classes to integrate Hibernate and written SQL queries.  • Worked with WebSphere as the application server.  • Developed coding using SQL, PL/SQL, Queries, Joins, Views, Procedures/Functions, Triggers and Packages.  • Automate build process through Maven build framework.  • Used Eclipse as IDE for development of the application and GIT for code repository.  • Developed Unit, Integration Test Cases using JUnit.  • Provided Production support for the application and during deployments.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Agile Scrum, Servlets, Spring, MVC, Hibernate, SOAP, Restful Web Services, AngularJS, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, SQL, PL/SQL, XML, Oracle, WebSphere, Maven, JUnit, GIT, Windows. Fullstack Java Developer Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company - Columbus, OH April 2013 to November 2014 Columbus, OH April 2013 to November 2014  Role: Fullstack Java Developer  Responsibilities:    • Attended meetings and interacted with team members and business users from different regions for requirements capture and analysis.  • Worked on the analysis and documentation of the requirements and architecting the application based on J2EE standards.  • Followed test-driven development (TDD) and participated in Scrum status reports.  • Enhanced the Portal UI using HTML, JavaScript, XML, JSP, Java, CSS as per the requirements and providing the client side JavaScript validations.  • Used Hibernate for mapping the ORM objects to table using Hibernate annotations.  • Implemented Hibernate Framework to connect to database and mapping of java objects to database tables.  • Developed Web Services component using XML, WSDL, and SOAP with DOM parser to transfer and transform data between applications.  • Created and consumed RESTFul Web Services using JAX-RS (Jersey)  • Built script using ANT that compiles the code, builds a war file and deploys the application on the application server.  • Wrote JUnit test cases for unit testing module.  • Created UNIX shell scripts to automate the build process.  • Used GIT tools for version control.    Environment: Java/J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Hibernate Framework, WebSphere, Agile, DB2, JavaScript, JUnit, Log4J, XML, HTML, JQuery, SOAP, RESTFul Web Services, GIT, ANT, AJAX, CSS. Fullstack Java Developer Cardinal Health - Dublin, OH August 2011 to April 2013 Responsibilities:    • Participated in design, development, test and implementation of the process systems, working on iterative life cycles business requirements, and creating Detail Design Document.  • Worked on the JAVA Collections API for handling the data objects between the business layers and the front end.  • Designed and developed Presentation Layer using MVC framework, JQuery, HTML, XML, AJAX, JavaScript and CSS.  • Implemented transaction management using Spring declarative transaction management with Spring AOP concepts.  • Used Spring dependency injection mechanism to inject application dependencies at runtime.  • Designed and developed web-based software using Spring MVC Framework and Spring Core.  • Used Hibernate to connect from web service and perform CRUD operations into DB.  • Created connections to database using Hibernate and Hibernate APIs to retrieve and store data to the database with Hibernate transaction control.  • Designed and developed Web Services to provide services to the various clients using RESTful.  • Wrote SQL, PL/SQL queries and used DB2 stored procedure, functions, triggers, cursors, objects, sequences etc.  • Developed shell scripts for monitoring and tuning of JBoss Server.  • Developed application using Eclipse IDE.  • Used Maven build file to build and deploy the application.  • Worked on SVN Version Control Systems.  • Used Log4J to capture the logging information and JUnit to test the application classes.    Environment: Java, JSP, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML, XML, JQuery, Spring MVC Framework, Hibernate, Log4J, JUnit, SVN, Maven, JBoss, Web Services, RESTful, SQL, PL/SQL, DB2, Eclipse IDE, Windows. Java Developer Financial Group - Des Moines, IA February 2010 to August 2011 Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in full SDLC application Development services including design, build/configure, integrate, test, and deploy enterprise.  • Used agile methodology for the iterative development of the application.  • Developed the user interface components using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery and created custom tags.  • Implemented Spring Framework for configuration of action mappings and presentation logic.  • Used Spring MVC for web tier development and created Spring controller to handle the requests.  • Actively involved in the development of backend logic or data access logic using Hibernate.  • Implemented Java Web Services based on SOA architecture with SOAP and WSDL.  • Implementing JSP Standard Tag Libraries (JSTL) along with Expression Language (EL)  • Wrote SQL queries, stored procedures modifications to existing database structure as required per addition of new features.  • Worked on CSS Version Control Systems.  • Wrote test cases and done Unit testing and written executing JUnit tests.  • Developed ANT to automatically compile, package, deploy and test J2EE applications.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Hibernate, MS SQL Server, SOAP, Spring, JSP, JSTL, JavaScript, PL/SQL, AJAX, HTML, CSS, JQuery, ANT, Log4j, Junit, CSS, Linux. Education Bachelors in Computer Application IGNOU 2008 Skills AJAX (8 years), CSS (8 years), JAVA (8 years), JAVASCRIPT (8 years), JUNIT (8 years), React Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages Java, C, C++.  J2EE Technologies Servlets, JSP, JSF, JSTL, JDBC, JMS, JAXB, JNDI, ODBC, JPA.  Web Technologies AngularJS, HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, CSS3, XML, JSON.  Frameworks J2EE, Spring Web MVC, JSF, Spring Framework, EJB, TDD (JUnit, TestNG)  Databases Oracle, DB2, MySQL, SQL Server.  Application/Web Servers Apache Tomcat, JBoss, WebSphere, WebLogic.  Web Services SOAP, RESTful.  Built Tool ANT, Maven.  IDEs Eclipse, Net Beans.  Version Control Systems SVN, CSS, GIT.  Logging tools Log4J.  Operating Systems Windows, Unix/Linux.