Truck Driver Truck Driver Entry Level/Junior Java Developer Springfield, VA Dynamic, performance-focused, and multifaceted junior professional offering hands-on progressive experience in the informational technology industry. Self-reliant and dedicated team player, capable of accomplishing a wide array of tasks within a fast-paced working environment. Equipped with excellent interpersonal, multitasking, critical thinking, and problem-solving aptitudes; effective at establishing positive working relationships with all levels of individuals. Armed with excellent oral and written communication skills; multilingual in English, Romanian, and Russian. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Truck Driver DM Bowman - Williamsport, MD July 2018 to July 2019 * Execute a pre-trip inspection and post-trip inspection daily.  * Completed all paperwork necessary for accurate delivery confirmation and billing.  * Followed all safety and traffic rules and regulations required to complete the job. Selector Save a Lot - Hagerstown, MD January 2018 to June 2018 * Accurately picked orders.  * Palletized all products.  * Operated a Walkie Rider  * Walked between 8-10 miles per day Junior Java Developer Endava January 2017 to November 2017 * Installed, configured and deployed software, provided quality assurance.  * Troubleshoot various software issues using debugging process and coding techniques  * Wrote code. Developed and proposed technical solutions.  * Wrote, modified, and maintained software documentation and specifications. Personalization Specialist Card Division August 2015 to January 2017 Followed company operational procedures and policies for printing and inserting to produce both accurate and quality work in a timely manner.  * Maintained productivity on all systems and delivered a quality product while meeting all production deadlines.  * Completed and maintained operator reports and logs including output and productivity.  * Communicated all issues, concerning or questioning to Operations Supervisor and Management Team.  * Reconciled incoming and completed work. Education Bachelor's Degree in Informational Management in Informational Management Technical University of Moldova 2012 to 2015 Commercial Driver's License (CDL) Class A Expires: July 2023 State: MD Skills ECLIPSE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, INTELLIJ IDEA, SPRING, C/C++, C++, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, MAVEN, CSS, EXCEPTIONS, COLLECTIONS, EXCEL, MICROSOFT OFFICE, OUTLOOK, POWERPOINT, WORD Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES    OOP's Concepts & Patterns  Abstract Classes and Interfaces  Exceptions - Checked, Unchecked  Constructors  Access Specifiers  Collections - List, Map, Set    TECHNICAL SKILLS    Programing Languages: Java, C/C++, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Spring, Hibernate, Maven.  IDE: Eclipse, NetBeans, IntelliJ IDEA  Software Skills: Microsoft Office Suite (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and Outlook) Globus/T24