Sr Java Developer Sr <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Java Developer - TD BANK Cherry Hill, NJ ? Full stack JAVA developer with 8 years of IT experience in analysis, design, developing, testing and implementation of web and distributed Enterprise applications using JAVA/J2EE and Client-Server technologies.  ? Experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), which includes Integration, Implementation, Interaction, Business Analysis/Modeling, Documentation, and Testing of all software applications.  ? Full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) experience including Analysis, Design and Review of Business and Software Requirement Specifications. Development, testing as per the RUP's Iterative Software Development Life Cycle process and agile software development methodology.  ? Experience in Agile software development process, Test Driven Development and Scrum.  ? Expertise with Object Oriented Design (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis (OOA), Object Oriented Modelling (OOM) based on Unified Modelling Language (UML) architecture.  ? Expertise in developing SOA (Service Oriented Architecture), REST and J2EEWeb Services based on SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, JAX-WS, JAXB, JAX-RPC using tools like Apache Axis and Developed RESTFUL web services using Spring MVC.  ? Knowledge of the following: Python, Ruby, Groovy, Scala.  ? Used Apache Kafka for building real time data pipelines and for storing data in a distributed cluster.  ? Developed and executed software systems utilizing React.JS and Groovy  ? Proficient in design and rapid development of web and J2EE applications using Core Java, JSP, JSF, CSS, Servlets, EJB, JavaScript, Spring, JDBC, JNDI, JMS, SWING, HTML/DHTML, XML and Struts  ? Strong Experience in Web development, client-server, Mobile application and multi-tier architecture projects based on Angular 4.0, Redux, RxJs and Angular Material.  ? Experience in client side designing and validations using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, Angular.JS and Node.JS.  ? Experience in developing single page applications (SPA) using JavaScript frameworks like AngularJS, React JS, Node JS, Ember JS, Backbone JS, Express.js, Redux.js, D3.js and Bootstrap.  ? Developed Graphical User Interfaces using UI frameworks AngularJS and Webpage's using HTML, CSS and JSP's for user interaction.  ? Developed software's for AWS in Java 8 (using Spring Framework 5.0, MySQL 5.6, AWS Aurora, Lambda, API Gateway, S3, SNS, SQS, DynamoDB, EC2, EBS, Akamai WAF (web application firewall) and Apache Tomcat web server.)  ? Good Knowledge on JCR API, CRX, Apache Sling, OSGI and CQ API  ? developed the Backend formula in Enterprise Spreadsheet for financial Calculation which it similar to available in EXCEL and Google Sheets through JAVA 8  ? Comprehensive knowledge in RDBMS databases like Oracle 10g/11g, SQL Server 2005, 2008, DB2 and MySQL 4.x, 5.0.  ? Development experience in Windows, Linux, Mac OS, Docker containers and UNIX operating systems.  ? Proven experience with Application Servers like IBM Web Sphere 6.x/5.x/7.x, Oracle/BEA WebLogic9.x/8.x/7.x/6.x, JBoss and Tomcat 5.x/4.x/3/x.  ? Experience in working in environments using Agile (SCRUM), RUP and Test-Driven development (TDD) methodologies.  ? Experienced in developing Microservices with Spring Boot, Spring REST, Spring Cloud, Eureka, API-Gateway etc.  ? Initiated Microservices application with Docker and Kubernetes cluster formation for the scalability of the application.  ? Extensive knowledge in working with J2EE technologies such as Servlets, JSP, JDBC, EJB, JNDI, Java Beans, JMS and Object Oriented Programming techniques, working knowledge in NoSQL Databases like HBase and Cassandra.  ? Strong understanding of internal processes of NoSQL approach  ? Having knowledge in Automated Testing using Java, Junit/TestNG, Selenium (IDE/Web driver).  ? Hands-on in unit testing using tools like JEST, Karma, Jasmine and selenium web drivers.  ? Experienced with event-driven and scheduled AWS Lambda Functions to trigger various AWS resources.  ? Experienced with hands on development in various Spring components like Spring MVC, AOP, Spring IOC, Spring JDBC, Spring JPA, Spring Securities and Spring Batch, Spring Boot, Spring Microservices, and swagger API's Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr Java Developer TD BANK - Cherry Hill, NJ July 2016 to Present Description: As a Full stack Java developer involved in back-end and front-end developing team. Took part in developing, maintaining, reviewing and supporting quality code and services. Initially used NodeJS to mock REST services and built the UI app using that mocked backend. Later integrated with the real backend system and coordinated with server-side development team.    Responsibility:  ? Followed Agile Software Development Methodology and Test-Driven Development (TDD) to build the application iteratively and incrementally and enhanced and optimized the functionality of Web UI using Rich Faces, JSF, AJAX, CSS3, HTML and JavaScript.  ? Developed presentation layer using JSP, HTML5, XHTML, CSS3 and client validation using JavaScript, DOM.  ? Expertise in designing java,J2EE applications using Servlets, JSP, Spring, Hibernate, Scala, Web services (SOAP, RESTful), Amazon Web Services and AWS Elastic Compute Cloud EC2.  ? Implemented application architecture of the System is based on Spring MVC and J2EE specifications and have experienced in Security-System development for Web Applications. Involved and developed all phases of security implementation using spring security system against modes of authentications: LDAP authentication, Database authentication and Pre-Authentication.  ? Worked on creating Docker container images, pushing images, integration of Spring boot.  ? Experience working in Agile Environment (sprints, Kanban, daily Scrum calls, sprint planning, backlog grooming, demos and retrospective).  ? Configured the CI/CD pipeline for Micro Services and Angular using Git, Jenkins, Groovy, Docker, AWS ECS.  ? Developed test cases for Front Jasmine and Karma and have used Rabbit MQ queues for implementation of multi-threaded synchronization processes and used JMS queues for consumption requests.  ? Used PL/SQL stored procedures for applications that needed to execute as part of a scheduling mechanisms.  ? Handled Java Multithreading part in back-end, one thread will be running for each user, which serves that user.    Environment: Core Java, Spring MVC, Spring, Hibernate, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, XML, XSD, SOAP and Rest Web services, WebLogic, Eclipse, SVN, Oracle. Java Developer Zimmer Biomet - Brooklyn, NY January 2015 to June 2016 Description: As a Java developer implemented Multithreading, Concurrency, Exception Handling and Collections whenever necessary. Used AngularJS in creating animations based on CSS classes for a new requirement surfaced for the client. I also Worked on creation of custom Docker Container images, tagging and pushing the images.  Responsibility:  ? Worked in Agile, Scrum Environment's and participated in requirement gathering, analysis and Design, Development, Testing and Implementation.  ? Defined and constructed layers, server-side objects and client-side interfaces on Java/J2EE design patterns.  ? Developed and implemented the Web Application by using Spring MVC framework.  ? Utilized Java 8 features like Lambda expressions and Stream API for Bulk data operations on Collections which would increase the performance of the Application.  ? Used GIT as source control management giving a huge speed advantage on centralized systems that must communicate with a server.  ? Deployed Spring Boot based MicroServices Docker container using Amazon EC2 container services and using AWS admin console.  parallelism.  ? Used various jQuery and Bootstrap plug-in like date picker, Bootstrap selectors.  ? Exposed and Consumed SOAP based Web Services to communicate between systems.  ? Created RESTful web services interface to Java-based runtime engine.  ? Used ActiveMQ to improve the stability and scaled the system for more concurrent users.  ? Configured and verified AWS workstations as per application requirement.  ? Experience with Eclipse Toolbar, open the drop-down Amazon Web Services menu (identified by the AWS icon) and select AWS Lambda Java project.  ? Developed Microservices using Spring Boot, Spring Cloud with Netflix Eureka to create the discovery Server, service, discovery clients and integrated Apache Kafka and Zookeeper as message broker.  ? Used Jenkins with Maven to Compile and Build Microservices java code and configure Build Triggers.  ? Elastic Cache can be run in the Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (Amazon VPC) environment and Redis can use Elastic Cache with almost no modification.  ? Experience in working with the Columnar NoSQL Database like HBase, Cassandra to manage extremely large data sets.  ? Performed Smoke Testing and Functional Testing with Selenium in multiple Java platforms.  ? Followed TDD (Test Driven Development) methodology to write unit tests with JUnit and Mockito.  Environment: Core Java, Struts, Hibernate, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, XML, XSD, SOAP and Rest Web services, WebLogic, Eclipse, SVN, Oracle. Java/J2EE developer Skopos Financial - Irving, TX January 2014 to December 2014 Description: Development of enterprise application which provides streamlined process for franchise dealers to finance auto loans. Worked on developing the functionality for the customer loan account management.  Implementation Details:  ? Project SDLC is worked through Agile SCRUM methodology. Participated in daily scrum meetings, sprint planning and sprint retrospective sessions  ? Web tier is developed using Spring MVC and front end pages that are developed using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX and JQUERY.  ? Developed client side validation code using JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Creating cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  ? Involved in fixing Front-End issues with the layouts using Firebug and developer tool.  ? Implemented JQuery to perform AJAX calls for creating interactive web pages on JSON response.  ? Developed account management screens and integrated with Spring controllers through AJAX calls for JOSN response.  ? Implemented Service and DAO components using Spring beans using dependency injection.  ? Integrated Restful Web Services with Spring MVC using ResponseBody annotation. Implemented AJAX to retrieve the JSON through Restful calls.  ? Used Spring JPA to integrate with Hibernate for the persistence layer.  ? Defined JPA entity persistence classes for ORM to persist the data into Oracle Database.  ? Implemented Spring AOP for transaction management.  ? Implemented services on the back end using with SOAP web services using Apache CXF.  ? Used SOAPUI as web services testing tool.  ? Used design patterns like Singleton, Data Access Objects, and MVC.  ? Implemented the Business logic by efficiently utilizing the OOPS concepts, Collections and Exception handling of Core Java and also Performed Unit Testing using JUNIT and Mockito.  ? Tracked QA defects/issues by using JIRA and tested in DEV and QA environments.  ? Deployed the applications on Linux server using putty, WinSCP and Jenkins.  ? Analysed Linux server logs for applications issues.  ? Built the application using Eclipse IDE.  ? Used SVN for version control and application deployment on WebLogic Application Server  ? Developed application logging using Log4J to log messages and errors.  ? Maven and Jenkins for the application build and deployments    Environment: J2EE, JDK, JSP, Spring MVC, Hibernate, JavaScript, Ajax, JQuery, Junit, Restful, SOAP, SVN, Toad, XML, WebLogic Java/J2EE developer Santander - Dallas, TX February 2011 to December 2013 Description: Worked on Road loans application which is a leading Internet auto lending program that allows consumers to apply for and receive financing for new and used vehicles via the Web.  Implementation Details:  ? Involved in Sprint planning sessions and participated in the daily Agile SCRUM meetings.  ? Implemented web layer using Spring MVC and used Spring ORM to integrate JPA.  ? Developed and designed web interfaces using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery and Ajax  ? Developed AJAX scripting to retrieve data asynchronously.  ? Used Spring annotations like Autowired, Controller, Component and Resource.  ? Persistence layer was implemented by using JPA/Hibernate.  ? Involved in writing JPA Named Queries, SQL Queries to fetch data from Oracle database.  ? Developed Restful Web Services using Jersey framework for getting credit information.  ? Developed JAX-WS SOAP web services using Apache CXF, XSD, WSDL, XML.  ? Used the SOAP UI tool for testing the behaviour of the web services.  ? Developed Unit test cases with Junit and Mockito.  ? Configured Log4j for application logging and debugged application issues by analyzing the application logs by connecting to DEV, QA Linux servers.  ? Managed monthly once on support call for the production issues.  ? Used Linux commands while deploying the applications and resolving the issues.  ? Participated in code reviews for better code quality.  ? Fixed issues in PL/SQL Stored Procedures for some of the business logic.  ? Used SVN for version control and Eclipse as IDE.  ? Worked with QA team in resolving the functionality issues tested in QA environment.  Environment: Java, Log4j, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring ORM, SQL, JPA, Hibernate, Hibernate Plugin, Oracle 11g, Linux, Windows7, Squirrel SQL, SVN, Drools, Jasper Studio, Jenkins, Maven. Education Computer Science Krishnamurthy institute of technology & engineering Skills AJAX (8 years), HTML5 (8 years), J2EE (8 years), Java (8 years), jQuery (8 years), PHP, Javascript, ASP, MySQL, Android Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Application Technology: Core JAVA, J2EE, JSP, Servlet, JNDI, JAX-WS, JAX-RS  Web Technologies: JSP, Servlet, JSTL, Tag libraries, HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX  Design Patterns: Singleton, Factory, Business Delegate, Session Façade, Transfer Object, MVC, DAO.  Web Services: SOAP, WSDL, XSD, XML, JAX-B, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, Restful, Jersey  Databases: Oracle, DB2, My SQL, TOAD, SQL Developer  App Servers: WebLogic, JBOSS, Tomcat  API & Framework: Spring, Struts Hibernate, Log4J, JUNIT, Mockito  Operating System: Linux, Windows  Version Control: SVN, GIT  Build Tools: Ant, Maven, Jenkins