Golang Consultant Golang Consultant Golang Consultant - Visa Novi, MI Work Experience Golang Consultant Visa - Novi, MI March 2017 to Present • Involved in requirements gathering, system design, analysis, implementation and setting up the development environment.  • Developed microservices to load the data from DynamoDB to Kafka topics for reporting using Golang and Used Git to control the build version.  • Involved in implementing the Micro Services based on Restful API using Golang.  • Wrote data APIs and multi-server applications to meet product needs using Golang.  • Using Golang, Implemented RESTful Web Services for the data transportation between multiple systems.  • Developed automation scripts in YAML using Swagger to deploy and manage Go based applications across Linux servers.  • Developed the UI using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap and customized Data Tables and High charts into Angular JS Directives.  • Designed configurable REST APIs on demand using Go. Worked on numerous go frameworks like gin, revel, be ego.  • Developed web services using Restful technology to support JSON and XML.  • Developed various test cases using open source Golang framework like ginkgo and testify to ensure proper testing is performed across all corners of application post deployment.  • Assisted in Migrating the application to Cloud environment using the Amazon web services- EC2, S3 and various services of AWS.  • Integrated Docker container orchestration framework using Kubernetes by creating pods, config Maps, deployments.  • Worked on creation of Docker containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle.  • Worked with JIRA for bug tracking, creating the dashboard for issues.  • Wrote complex queries, PL/ SQL (Procedure, functions) using MYSQL, Oracle and generating the reports based on the data.  Environment: Golang, Java, J2EE, Docker, Swagger, Kubernetes, Jenkins, CI/CD, AJAX, XML, CSS, HTML, Angular, Oracle, jQuery, REST, JSON. Senior Golang/ Java Consultant Visa Present Java Developer Sprint, Kansas, MO January 2016 to November 2016 • Involved in requirements gathering, system design, analysis, implementation and setting up the development environment.  • Extensively used JAVA8 Streams, Lambda Functions, Predicates, Functional Interfaces, Method References, Filters, Collections and default methods.  • Involved in the development of the UI using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, and customized Data Tables and High charts into Directives.  • Worked on the jQuery JavaScript Library that simplifies HTML document traversing, and event handling.  • Hands on experience with MongoDB Installation, Configuring, Monitoring and Designing Shared Environment.  • Implemented a responsive web design using Bootstrap and developed Microservices for different level of layers in flow of network.  • Worked on Espresso Framework and used internally for developing the services with a quick and easy view of UI.  • Involved in implementing the Micro Services based on Restful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Implemented the application using Spring IOC, Spring MVC Framework, Spring Batch and handled the security using Spring Security.  • Migrating the application to Cloud environment using the Amazon web services- EC2, S3 and various services of AWS.  • Worked in Amazon Web Services including migrating infrastructure to AWS cloud and maintenance of production web infrastructure.  • Implemented Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using JMS (MQ series) for sending and receiving messages while creating web services.  • Extensive use of Spring Data in design and development of user interfaces and worked with HTML, DHTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, JSON in UI pages.  • Involved in implementation of application using conventional design practices (Web-Service Oriented Architecture, MVC-Model View Controller).  • Created and injected spring services, spring controllers and DAOs to achieve dependency injection and to wire objects of business classes.  • Extensively used the Spring framework implemented upon the MVC design pattern and developed RESTful Web services for transmission of data in JSON format.  • Used PL/SQL stored procedures for applications that needed to execute as part of a scheduling mechanisms.  • Implemented functionality like searching, filtering, sorting, validating using Angular JS and JavaScript.  • Extensively worked on and having great exposure of Hibernate Cache, Query, Criteria and Transactions in secondary project.  • Worked on creation of custom Docker container images, tagging, pushing images, integration of spring boot.  Environment: J2EE, Spring, Spring ORM, Spring AOP, JSP, JUnit, AJAX, Angular JS, Backbone.js JSON, Servlets, XML, Oracle, Bootstrap, Log4J, MYSQL, Eclipse, Hibernate. Java Developer RK Info Systems - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2013 to July 2015 • Involved in design discussions and understanding of business requirements and identify the relevant functional and technical requirements.  • Used SOAP JAXB for producing web services and involved in writing programs to consume web services  • Developed the application using Spring MVC Framework that helps in separating the business logic, presentation logic and navigation logic  • Written Spring Core and Spring MVC files to associate DAO with Business Layer  • Intercepting filter design pattern used for all the pre-processing and post-processing purposes which include session validation, authorization, logging.  • Implemented Business processes such as user authentication, using Session EJB  • Designed and developed presentation layers using JSP, Java Beans, CSS, HTML, DHTML, jQuery and JavaScript, Json in UI pages.  • Writing JavaScript functions for various validation purposes. Writing Java Beans to contain data objects. Implemented session beans, entity beans, and message-driven beans.  • Dynamic form generation auto-completion of forms and user-validation functionalities using AJAX.  • Worked on the jQuery JavaScript Library that simplifies HTML document traversing, and event handling.  • Created controller Servlets for handling HTTP requests from JSP pages  • Implemented JSP in Presentation layer programming using JSTL, AJAX, Development  • Developed client user interface using JSPs and Servlets.  • Used Maven to build, run and create Jars and WAR files among other uses  • Deployed the applications on IBMWebSphere6.0 Application Server  • Used IBM RAD versions 8.0 8.5 as IDE for the enterprise application Project development  • Used TEAM FOUNDATION SERVER TFS to check-in and checkout codes to the repository.  • Extensively used mainframe platform to access the tables in DB2 Database and to refresh the data.  • Used JDBC to invoke Stored Procedures and database connectivity.  • Used Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  • Developed JUnit test cases for all the developed modules  • Involved in the complete life cycle of the project from the requirements to the production and involved in UAT.  • Setting up daily Status meetings with team and communicate status to Project Manager.  • Worked with the Business team during UAT to review the requirements for any new functionality or enhancements  • Worked with server admin and deployed the application on to the production and Stage Servers.  Environment: EJB2.0, Struts, Hibernate, JSP, JSF, Servlets, Web services, XML, XSLT, XSL, JavaScript, Ant, JBoss, HSQL, Net Beans, Oracle 9i, SQL, PL/SQL, Windows 2000/ XP, Enterprise Architect. Software Developer RK Info Systems - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2012 to December 2012 • Developed mockup for management system with design and architecture team.  • Provided solutions on using a card-based barcode scanning system rather than biometric to detect employee and implemented integration of the card scanners with the registration system using Java.  • Developed an automatically startup windows service to asynchronously send scanned data to the central Database system for review by the HR department.  • Implemented back end design with stored procedures and functions on database.  • Performed system tests using Microsoft Test tools to test the co-relation between the time in and timeout of an individual to avoid clocking out of the system during sign in.  • Implemented Hierarchical tables of storing geographical location of Census Data using T-SQL and tools like Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio.  Environment: J2EE, Spring, Spring ORM, Spring AOP, JSP, JUnit, AJAX, Angular JS, Backbone.js JSON. Education Master of Science in Computer & Information Technology in Computer & Information Technology Silicon Valley University Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science JNTU Skills Docker, Git, Javascript, Jenkins, Software development, Svn, Xml, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Java technologies, jquery, Struts, Database, Db2, Ms sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Postgresql Additional Information Skills:  • Having 5+ years of experience in software development includes Analysis, Design, and Development of Web-based applications using Golang, Java.  • 2.5+ Years of experience in Developing and Testing Microservices and REST API's which are written in Golang.  • 2.5+ Years of experience in design and development of multi-tier applications using Java, J2EE, XML, Web Services like REST, HTML5, JavaScript, Ajax, jQuery.  • Expertise in Distributed and Web environments, focused in Golang concepts like Channels, Routines, Interfaces etc.  • Experience in testing Code and Microservices using various open source frameworks in Golang.  • Experience in design and development of various web and enterprise-level applications using Java technologies Such as spring, Hibernate, Struts framework.  • Experience in implementing client-server business applications using MVC, SOA architecture and Micro Services.  • Experience in AWS platform and its features including EC2, S3.  • Experienced in building REST APIs on SQL, Oracle (Relational) and NoSQL databases like MySQL, MongoDB and EMR.  • Experience working with RDBMS such as MySQL, MS SQL Server, PostgreSQL, DB2, Oracle and NoSQL database like MongoDB.  • Experienced with automating release process using Maven, Jenkins and Jira as tools in diversified project environment.  • Extensively worked on CI/CD pipeline for code deployment by engaging different tools like Git, Jenkins and Maven.  • Experience in working on several Docker components like Docker images, Docker Engine, Hub, Machine, Compose and Docker registry.  • Good understanding of the Kubernetes PODS, Services and CI/CD Integration.  • Expertise in creating and enhancing UNIX shell scripts using Shell and Bash.  • Extensive experience in the implementation of the version control software SVN, Git.  • Used Jira as a Tool to add tasks to the given user stories and adds defects during the Iteration.  • Good Experience in Facilitating Scrum ceremonies like Sprint planning, retrospectives, Daily stand-ups, etc.  • Experience in Coordinating with the offshore team for requirement transition and providing the necessary inputs required for successful delivery of the project.