Sr Java Developer Sr <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Java Developer - John Deere Financial, St Johnston, IA • Full stack JAVA developer with 8 years of IT experience in analysis, design, developing, testing and implementation of web and distributed Enterprise applications using JAVA/J2EE and Client-Server technologies.  • Experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Deployment of web and enterprise applications on Windows and LINUX platforms using Java/J2EE.  • Experience in designing and developing applications using J2EE technologies including Servlets, JSP, EJB, JNDI, JDBC, JMS, Hibernate, Web Services, Spring  • Experience in Web Designing and User Interface Development using technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX and AngularJS.  • Experience with JavaScript Libraries like jQuery, JSP, JSTL Specification, Tag Libraries, AJAX and Resource Properties.  • Worked in debugging and troubleshooting existing code using Firebug and Developer Tools.  • Experience in MVC architecture using Spring MVC for web application development.  • Implemented different modules in spring like IOC, MVC, ORM, and Transaction Management.  • Implemented Hibernate as the backend ORM tool for persistence layer and mapping of POJOs.  • Exposure to Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) with JMS, Web Services SOAP and Restful  • Experience with WSDL, SOAP protocol, XML, XSD and XML parsers such as DOM, JAXP, and SAX.  • Proficient in handling web and application servers in creating Domain, configuring connection pool, deploying applications on Web Logic, JBOSS and Apache Tomcat.  • Extensive experience in SQL, PL/SQL programming, stored procedures with MySQL and Oracle databases.  • Hands on experience in Test Driven Development (TDD), Agile Methodology and Scrum Methodology.  • Performed unit testing using JUnit, integration and deployment of applications done using tools ANT and Maven & debugging through Log4J.  • Extensively used different IDEs like Eclipse and RAD.  • Hands on experience in implementing various Design patterns including Data Access Object, Model View Controller, Factory Method, Singleton.  • Strong analytical and problem solving skills and a proven ability to be an effective team player with excellent time management skills Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr Java Developer John Deere Financial, St - Johnston, IA July 2016 to Present Description: They offer several types of loans depending up on our business requirements and provide leasing for equipment's and provides some personal solutions for owning and operating equipment in an easy and affordable manner. They also Manages service operations within the dealership to maximize return on investment by optimizing Service Department processes to ensure internal and external customer satisfaction.    Responsibility:  • Analyzed the requirements and designed class diagrams, sequence diagrams using UML and prepared high-level technical documents.  • Used Agile (XP) software development methodology which helps to develop project plans  • Designed and developed UI screens with Angular 4 to provide interactive screens to display data.  • Used Spring 4.0 Framework and Spring MVC, spring  • To provide Model and View, and URL based responses to different HTTP requests.  • Implemented method to obtain bean references and cross-cutting concerns using Dependency Injection (DI) / Inversion of Control (IOC), and Aspect Oriented Programming (AOP).  • Used Hibernate 3.0 and DAO pattern to store the persistence data into Oracle database and developed queries and stored procedures using HQL and NoSQL and used Tomcat as Web Container.  • Created web services using spring @Rest Controller to return JSON to the frontend.  • Used Apache POI-HSSF for generating reports in MS Excel for generating PDF reports.  • Developed web applications using Java, Angular, Backbone JS, React JS, JavaScript, HTML5, and CSS.  • Used Nodejs for testing frontend part of the application.  • Wrote services to store and retrieve user data from the Mongo DB for the application on devices.  • Designed and coded portions of all tiers of the application:  • Java, Angular, Backbone JS, React JS, Kendo UI, JavaScript, jQuery, DHTML, CSS, JSON and Ajax in the Web front end  • REST Web services written in Groovy/Grails wrapped by Jersey JAX-RS  • Mongo DB NoSQL database.  • Used Mongoose API to access the Mongo DB from Node JS.  • Designed and created Micro Services business segments and RESTful administration endpoints utilizing spring boot.  • Used Maven to build and package the application and implemented Log4j for the project.  • Developed server-side software modules and client-side user interface components deployed entirely in Compute Cloud of Amazon web Services (AWS).  • Hands-on experience on developing AWS cloud formation templates and setting up Auto scaling for EC2 instances and involved in the automated provisioning of AWS cloud environment using Jenkins and Docker.  • Involved in documentation, review, analysis and fixed post production issues. Maintained the Production and the Test systems.  • Worked on bug fixing and enhancements on change requests.    Environment: Windows XP, Tomcat, Spring, Spring Boot Hibernate, Agile (XP), Maven, JIRA, Angular 4, Backbone JS, React JS, Bootstrap, Groovy/Grails, Node JS, POI-HSSF, AWS, Mongo DB, JavaScript, CSS, HTML5, CI/CD, Elastic Cloud Compute (EC2). Java Developer Farm Bureau Financial - West Des Moines, IA January 2015 to June 2016 Description This Company offers both insurance and investment-based policies, it also provides insurance like agricultural, life Insurance etc. According to our requirements we designed an application to view and modify the information by our users and employers. Customers can check out details of insurance and investment policies, apply for programs they are interested in, and view personal information. Employer will view the customer details and provide documentation.  Responsibility:  • Worked in Agile (SCRUM) methodology with active user involvement and followed sprint system for development.  • Developed and maintained port lets using Web Logic 8.1/10.2 in the portal application  • Developed portals, port lets, books, pages and desktops.  • Integrated Spring DAO for data access using Hibernate.  • Implemented Hibernate Template to great extent making use of HQL, Named Parameters, Named Queries and interfaces such as Expression, Query and Criteria.  • Developed Hibernate with Spring Integration as the data abstraction to interact with the database of Mongo DB.  • Developed UI components using JSP, Angular 2, Backbone JS, React JS, JavaScript, Html tags, HTML5, CSS, Ajax and jQuery.  • Developed and executed software systems utilizing JavaScript and Groovy.  • Designed and developed Grails applications for end users.  • Used JDBC for all the database mappings to access Oracle 11g database and clean error log webapps.  • Used Hibernate ORM framework for database mapping in FERC Refund website.  • Developed and maintained PL/SQL packages and stored procedures and writing SQL queries.  • CSS and Bootstrap for styling the HTML elements.  • Developed Java Script functions for client-side validation.  • Developed skins using CSS (Cascading Style sheets).  • Developed Java Page Flow port lets and nested page flows.  • Developed REST web services using Spring IOC and Apache CXF framework.  • Worked in Agile (SCRUM) methodology with active user involvement and followed sprint system for development.  • Provided extensive support during QA, UAT and addressing bugs as reported.  • Worked with java libraries to access AWS facilities as Simple Storage service, Simple queue and Simple DB.  • Hosted and tested the application in AWS servers before publishing it in actual production environment.  Environment: Web Logic Portal 8.1/10.2, Hibernate 3.x, Spring 2.x, Apache CXF 2.x, Agile(SCRUM) methodology, React JS, Angular 2, Backbone JS, Groovy and Grails, JavaScript, AJAX, jquery, JSP, Oracle 11g, Serena SVN,Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS, Web Logic workshop 8.x, Eclipse, Windows. Java/J2EE developer Molina Healthcare Inc - Long Beach, CA January 2014 to December 2014 Description: This Company offers various kinds of plans like family health plan and individual plans. It is a server-side web application where Customer will choose different health care benefits out of the plan options available. This service will enable them to manage health insurance products, features, benefits and benefit values and attributes. Client interacts through web interface with web services written at back end to fetch data from database and select their plan benefits.  Responsibilities:  • Designed the application by implementing the Struts Framework to use MVC architecture for loose coupling, tight cohesion and parallel development.  • Agile Scrum Methodology been followed for the development process.  • Handle Performance, Scalability and Flexibility issues for the robust application.  • Involved in Business Requirement gathering and developing the Detail Design Document and coding based on the Functional Requirement specifications.  • JUnit been used for the unit testing of the application.  • Used Hibernate O-R Mapping tool to interact with the Oracle database.  • Designed and Developed the UI using Strut view component, JSP, Angular JS, JavaScript, HTML, AJAX, DHTML, CSS, and DOJO.  • Implemented Struts Dispatch Action class and form bean classes using struts framework.  • Used Web Services (SOAP, WSDL) to interact with other EBM Database resources, and retrieve the results based on the Clinical Query passed.  • Used Log4J for logging and debugging of the application in an efficient manner.  • Collection framework used to transfer objects between the different layers of the application.  • Coded SOAP Clients to retrieve the data from multiple web services enabled application to display results in the formatted way.  • Created Tables, Views, and Triggers for the oracle database and modified the existing PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Modified project to enforce security of project resources and to ensure the authentication and authorization of users.  • XSLT to transform the XML files to the presentation layer for the enrich design.  • Maven tool for the build and deployment process.  • Actively involved in code review and bug fixing for improving the performance.  • Used Web Sphere application server to deploy the application to execute.  • Documented application for its functionality and its enhanced features.    Environment Struts Framework, Web services (WSDL, SOAP), JSP1.2, Hibernate, DOJO, AJAX, Web Sphere 6.0, Oracle 10g/11i, XML, log4J, XSL/XSLT, Agile (Scrum) Methodology, SQL, JUnit, Eclipse WTP, ( java) J2SE 5.0, SQL, Maven, Angular JS, JavaScript, HTML/DHTML, CSS, CVS, Dreamweaver CS3, UNIX. Java/J2EE developer Barr Pharmaceuticals Inc - Pomona, NY February 2011 to December 2013 Description: Barr Pharmaceuticals is a drug manufacturing company, the company offers pharmaceuticals in female healthcare, oncology, cardiovascular, anti-infective, and psychotherapeutic categories.    Implementation Details:  • Involved in all phases of the Software development life cycle (SDLC) using Agile Methodology.  • Developed Use Case Diagrams, Object Diagrams and Class Diagrams in UML using Rational Rose.  • Used AJAX API for intensive user operations and client-side validations.  • Developed the application using JSF MVC Framework.  • Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML file that contains declarations and other dependent objects declaration.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries, third party libraries and Java Script to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Inserted Dependency Injection between components using Spring (IOC) concept.  • Implemented Asynchronous messaging between components using JMS.  • Used multithreading in programming to improve overall performance using Singleton design pattern in Hibernate Utility class.  • Wrote Stored Procedures and complicated queries for IBM DB2.Implemented SOA architecture with Web Services using SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and XML using CXF framework tool/Apache Commons.  • Worked on parsing the XML files using DOM/SAX parsers.  • Designed and developed Hibernate DAO's using spring framework's Hibernate Dao Support and Hibernate Template.  • Involved in creating various Data Access Objects (DAO) for addition, modification and deletion of records using various specification files.  • Created tables, triggers, stored procedures, SQL queries, joins, integrity constraints and views for multiple databases, Oracle 10g using Toad tool.  • Involved in developing the Graphical User Interface using HTML, JavaScript, CSS and JSP.  • Involved in Unit Testing of various modules by generating the Test Cases.  • Developed Ant Scripts for the build process and deployed in IBM Web Sphere.  • Involved in Bug fixing of various modules that were raised by the testing teams in the application during the Integration testing phase.  • Implemented Log4J for Logging Errors, debugging and tracking using loggers, appenders components.  • Used Rational Clear Case for version control and Clear Quest for bug tracking.  • Performed deployment of applications on IBM Web Sphere Application Server.  • Worked on UNIX environment for development.  Environment: Java, J2EE, SOAP, SOA, WSDL, JAX-WS, XMI, JSF, Hibernate 3, SQL, PL/SQL, Spring, Spring Batch, Oracle10g, JavaScript, CSS, Log4j, Subversion, query, Jobs, Application Server, Maven , Eclipse, JIRA, Fisheye, UNIX. Education Computer Science Krishnamurthy institute of technology & engineering Skills Ajax (8 years), Java (8 years), Maven (6 years), Oracle (8 years), web services (8 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Application Technology: Core JAVA, J2EE, JSP, Servlet, JNDI, JAX-WS, JAX-RS  Web Technologies: JSP, Servlet, JSTL, Tag libraries, HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, JQuery, and AJAX  Design Patterns: Singleton, Factory, Business Delegate, Session Façade, Transfer Object, MVC, DAO.  Web Services: SOAP, WSDL, XSD, XML, JAX-B, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, Restful, Jersey  Databases: Oracle, DB2, My SQL, TOAD, SQL Developer  App Servers: WebLogic, JBOSS, Tomcat  API & Framework: Spring, Struts Hibernate, Log4J, JUNIT, Mockito  Operating System: Linux, Windows  Version Control: SVN, GIT  Build Tools: Ant, Maven, Jenkins