Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - CVS Health Chicago, IL • 8 years of Full Stack Development Experience in the areas of Analysis, Design, Development, Coding, Implementation and Testing of Java web based multi-tier applications.  • Expertise in Design and Development of enterprise applications using Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, EJB's, Struts, JSF, AJAX, Spring and Web Services.  • Experience in Design and Development of middleware SOA components using JMS and Integration frameworks like Apache Camel.  • Experienced in developing applications using Spring boot and with various modules in Spring framework like core, data, web, AOP etc..  • Extensive experience on MVC architecture using JSF and Struts framework/JSP-Servlet and J2EE Design Patterns.  • Extensive experience developing web interfaces using HTML, CSS, Javascript and frameworks like Jquery, Angular-JS and Sencha EXT-JS.  • Experienced in working with ORM frameworks like JPA, Hibernate, Mybatis with Spring framework.  • Experienced in various XML technologies like SAX, DOM, JAXB, XSD, XPATH, XSTREAM etc..  • Extensive experience in Oracle and SQL databases and automated testing frameworks like Selenium and Cucumber.  • Extensive experience developing projects with Agile and Waterfall Methodologies and Iterative Development.  • Experienced in developing applications using Node-JS and various modules like underscrore, express, sequelize etc.  • Extensive experience in Unit Testing, System Integration Testing, Integration Testing and Performance Tuning.  • Extensive experience in UML Modeling developing use case diagrams, class diagrams and sequence diagrams.  • Experience in developing both SOAP and REST based web services using Jersey, Spring and CXF.  • Good knowledge in Java/J2EE architecture and developing applications based on OOAD concepts, SOA concepts and Java/J2EE Design Patterns such as MVC, Session Facade, View Helper, Composite View, Transfer Objects, Front Controller, Data Access Objects, Singleton and Factory Pattern.  • Experienced in developing build scripts using Maven & ANT for application build and deployment and Jenkins for continuous integration.  • Experienced using version controls like GIT,CVS, SVN and Clearcase and code analysis tools like FindBugs and Checkstyle.  • Expertise in designing J2EE compliant systems for deployment on WebSphere, WebLogic and JBoss application servers.  • Experienced in testing Angular applications using Jasmine, Mocha, Karma, Chai, Protractor, Istanbul etc..  • Experienced in using Junit, Testng for unit testing & log4j and logback for logging.  • Experienced some of the networking concepts and working on Linux environment includes Cisco NSO.  • Ability to rapidly learn new concepts and possess excellent analytical, problem solving skills and keen interest in the emerging technologies.  • Team player and a self-starter with excellent written and verbal communication, technical and interpersonal skills.  • Designed and coded application components in an Agile environment.  • Good Knowledge on Audit framework. Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer CVS Health - Chicago, IL February 2017 to Present Responsibilities  • Followed Agile methodology and involved in daily meetings, sprint planning, showcases and retrospective and used RALLY as a tracking tool for the sprints.  • Designed and developed code in HTML, CSS, Typescript, AJAX, JSON, Angular 2/4 and Bootstrap with MySQL database as the backend.  • Created Single Page Application with loading multiple views using route services and adding more user experience to make it more dynamic by using Angular framework.  • Developed components, directives, pipes, modules, services in the application for various modules.    • Performed backend REST Webservices using Angular Http services to get and post JSON data.    • Applied Module wide routing using Angular Router to enable lazy loading and developed components with route parameters.    • Developed both reactive and angular forms module to create template and data driven forms.    • Used Angular CLI for application creation, compilation, limiting, running unit and integration test cases and to create production ready code.    • Implemented redux architecture using NGRX and took part in configuring the store, action classes and reducers.    • Used Jasmine and Angular test beds to conduct tests for applications developed in Angular JS and ran those test cases on Karma (Unit test runner) platform.    • Developed Spring REST Controllers, and Services that are bind using Dependency Injection to enable loose coupling between application components.    • Developed Apache Camel middleware routes, JMS endpoints, Spring service endpoints and used Camel freemarker to customize REST responses.    • Designed and developed Microservices business components using Spring Boot, Netflix OSS patterns and used various annotations such as @EnableAutoConfiguration, @SpringBootApplication, and @EnableScheduling in the spring application.    • Involved in producing happy path code and error handling code for the API's. Used Spring RestTemplates and Spring Security OAuth2 framework for building the smarter clients.    • Involved in the development of micro services using Security API and SSO service.    • Applied standard Spring Boot code structure 3 layers (Domain, Service, Rest) to organize the project.    • Developed Spring middleware components for implementing business logic and Implemented SOA based architecture using web services to build a loosely coupled system.    • Used core java concept multi-threading to overcome the errors in the process of transactions, to handle all the threads by the main thread process.    • Developed unit cases for REST controllers using Mock MVC, Mockito, Junit and performed BDD testing using Cucumber.    • Implemented MongoDB queries to interact with the database and converted data from XML format into java objects and injected into MongoDB.    • Took part in enhancing existing service and data access layer developed using Spring and Spring JPA to interact with MYSQL database.    • Deployed the application using WebLogic application server and performed Maven dependencies for the project and used SVN as Version Control System.    • Effectively used Log4j framework to implement logging system for the project and JIRA for bug reporting and tasks and issue tracking.    • Took part in creating Docker images for deployment to AWS ECS environment with Jenkins.    • Used Node NPM to install dev and application dependencies and used Webpack for builds.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Java 1.8, JQuery 2.2.4, Bootstrap, JSON, Angular JS 2/4, Angular-CLI, AJAX, Jasmine 2.5, REDUX, Karma, XML, Rally, Spring MVC 4.2.1, Spring boot, STS 3.8, Hibernate 4.2, MySQL 5, RESTful, MongoDB 3.2, JUnit 4.12, Log4j 1.4.9, WebLogic 12.2.1, SVN, Maven, JIRA, Mockito 1.10.19, Postman 4.9.3, AWS, Jenkins, Atom, Docker, Visual Studio Code Software-Engineer CSSI - Coconut Creek, FL, US April 2016 to January 2017 Responsibilities  • Developed the service packages for the client data centers to automate the deployment of network changes.  • Developed the service packages, where Cisco NSO will be providing a platform for the automation into current manual device configuration to reduce the manual effort.  • Developed the service packages using the Cisco NSO (Network Service Orchestration) architecture to provide the service layer transparency.  • Used the Network Element Drivers NEDS to test the device configuration.  • Developed the YANG to define the attributes of the service like which protocol, the source device, and the destination device.  • Developed the service to create corresponding changes made to the devices where NSO supports both with XML templates or with Java.  • Developed the implementation of the new service using Cisco CLI.  • Developed a service template which provides the necessary mapping of YANG data.  • model to the individual device type configuration items.  • Build the YANG service model based on service description and parameters. Manually configure the new service using the Cisco NSO CLI.  • Export the configuration into XML format. Replace exact values with variables and generate a XML service template.  • Used the Linux environment to run the services and eclipse for writing the java code.  • Developed the custom service models in NSO to configure fabric path and Infrastructure services.  • Developed the SVI (Switch Virtual Interface), FEX(Fabric path Extender), Baseline service packages.  • Developed the service packages with NAVU API ( Java) which gives programmatic access to service and device models.  • Created the JSON file for the services and then used the Rest API to instantiate the services.  • Used the Cisco CDB (Configuration Database) to store its own configuration and also the configuration of all services.  • Developed the FASTMAP algorithm for automation and management of any kind of change or deletion of a service.  • Tested the service packages in client's environment with the real devices provided by them.    Environment: Java 1.8, XML, LINUX, YANG, Cisco NSO, Cisco CLI, JSON, REST API, NAVU API. Java Web Consultant Jacobs Engineering - Little Rock, AR, US October 2014 to March 2016 Responsibilities  • AGILE Scrum development process has been followed and involved in retrospective, demos, planning and code review meetings.  • Used Jira for bug tracking, project management functions and feature tracking  • Design and developed of application user interfaces using Spring boot, Spring, Sencha EXT-JS 4, JQuery, JavaScript, HTML5and CSS.  • Developed traffic supplier module Rest API using Spring Jersey and developed related web interface screens to view suppliers and their details using Sencha EXT-JS.  • Developed EXT-JS 4 stores to store supplier data, created views, models and controllers and followed MVC architecture for the web application development.  • Used tools like Sencha CMD for compiling, minifying, packaging and creating production ready code and Sencha architect for faster UI development.  • Developed supplier and order module views using EXT-JS components like forms, layouts, grids, tabs, menus, viewports, Ajax etc.  • Developed restful resources using Spring and Jersey to serve the web application data in JSON format and used Apache Camel for messaging routing, http endpoints and used freemarker to customize the rest responses..  • Developed business components using Spring IOC, AOP, Spring annotations and created user detail service for authentication and access control using Spring LDAP and Spring Security.  • Developed middleware service and data access layer using Spring and Hibernate and used Spring declarative transaction management.  • Developed Spring JMS message listeners to create and consume messages across modules from the application queues and developed data access objects and used Spring, criteria API, HQL and named queries for data retrievals.  • Developed hibernate ORM mappings using Hibernate and JPA annotations to map java classes to database tables.  • Developed hibernate inheritance mapping using single table approach and configured multi-level caching in Hibernate to reduce the load on the Oracle database server.  • Consumed REST services using jersey web resources for various HTTP methods and developed REST services using Node-JS, Mongo-db, Express, Underscore, body-parser, mongoose etc for another internal application.  • Developed batch jobs to process XML data coming from other applications using Spring batch and scheduled them using Spring scheduling.  • Responsible for retrieving data from various sources such as Oracle and XML documents.  • Developed code using Java 8 features like lamda expressions, streams, predicates and new date time API.  • Developed  • Developed selenium tests and created cucumber feature files for various scenarios and automated the test case execution with Maven as a part of build process.  • Developed Junit test cases with assertions and mock objects using Mockito and used Maven as the build tool, GIT for version control and Jenkins for continuous integration.  • Developed the application using Spring tool suite and involved in testing and deploying to other environments on Web sphere application server.    Environment: Java 1.8, Spring 4, Spring boot, Hibernate 4, Oracle, EXT-JS 4, HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS, REST Web services, Junit, Mockito, XML, JAXB, Selenium, Cucumber, Maven, GIT, Jenkins, Websphere, Node-JS, Mongo-db Java/J2EE Developer Cisco Systems Inc - Richardson, Texas, US April 2013 to September 2014 Responsibilities:  • Worked on Agile, SCRUM development methodology and built the application with Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Consumed Restful web services using apache Http Client for the data coming from external systems.  • Developed the Web application usingHTML5, AngularJS, Bootstrap, CSSand Javascript.  • Implemented Reporting SPAs using AngularJS, Angular Directives, Bootstrap, CSS3, LESS, Glyphicons and Grunt.  • Developed the DAO layer for the application using Spring, Hibernate and developed various business logic and reports using HQL and Hibernate Criteria.  • Developed UI using bootstrap dropdown multi-select, bootstrap modals Implemented a suite of app wide MODALS for application configurable warnings and alerts, Developed Tab Widget, Tree Widget, user interfaces and controllers and their templates.  • Web application development for backend system using AngularJS and Node.js with cutting edge HTML5 and CSS3 techniques.  • Used Spring Validation framework to implement the server side validations and used Angularjs, AJAX to get the data from the server asynchronously by using JSON objects.  • Developed angular unit test cases to test angular components using Mocha, Gulp, Chai, Protractor, Karma and nodejs.  • Implemented Front End using HTML5 app with Angular JS 1.4, Bootstrap, CSS3, WebAPI, Angular Directives, ng- directives, queue, deferred, promise APIs, Mongo JavaScript Expressions in Angular ($match, $group, $sort, $limit) etc.  • Created and managed daily/weekly builds using Jenkins for CI/CD and used pipeline plug-in for managing multi project jobs efficiently.  • Used TestNG framework for writing automated unit testing for application and Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  • Implemented Hibernate Caching (Query and second level EH Cache) for frequent queries executed against database for reports.  • Integrating Spring injections for DAOs to achieve Inversion of Control, updating Spring Configurations for managing Java objects using callbacks  • Initiate AJAX requests with jQuery and handle responses in plain text, HTML and XML formats.  • Configured Spring AOP and used Spring declarative transaction management for transactions.  • Coordinating with the build team in the deployment activities, Integration testing, bugs fixing, handling change requests and code reviews.  • Used SOA architecture SOAP Web services and integrated Web Services and JMS applications using Mule Enterprise Service Bus (ESB).  • Reviewing the Database Schemas across the different domain. Worked on the Integration of the Code and deliver the build to UAT Team.  • Used extensively Eclipse in development and debugging the application.  • Validating the Application by Deploying and testing on JBoss Server.  • Responsible for maintaining the code quality, coding and implementation standards by code reviews.  • Responsible for mapping the database model into persistence objects using Hibernate Annotations.  • Created various unit test cases and integration tests for the DAO, Service, and Controller components using JUnit, DBUnit and Spring Test support.  • Developed the application using J2EE architecture specification and Design patterns.    Environment: Java 1.7, Junit, JBoss 7, SOA, Mule ESB, Oracle, JSP, HTML5, Cucumber, AngularJS, bootstrap, Karma, Mocha, Jenkins, Maven, Hibernate, MVC/MVW, Spring, Jboss, Eclipse, REST Web services, Nodejs, Maven, Ext-JS, Junit, log4j, Javascript, Subversion Java/J2EEDeveloper CVS Health - Chicago, Illinois, US July 2012 to March 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the review and analysis of the Functional Specifications, and Requirements Clarification Defects etc.  • Involved in the analysis and design of the initiatives using Rational Application Developer.  • Involved in the development of the User Interfaces using HTML, JSP, JS, JQuery, CSS and AJAX.  • Involved in the presentation tier design as well as services layer, and prepared the class diagrams, sequence diagrams for the Respath enhancements.  • Developed backend layer using EJB stateless session beans and Entity beans.  • Involved in developing SOAP based JAX-WS web services for internal applications.  • Involved in the development of the presentation tier using Struts framework, Action Classes, Dispatch Action etc, struts tiles, and validation framework.  • Involved in the development of the services layer using design patterns such as Session Façade, DAO, Value Object etc.  • Used Struts Tag Libraries, JSTL, and other in-house tag libraries.  • Used Vignette content management system for all the content required for .com, and global sites as well as partner sites such as Ritz, Execustay, and Bulgary.  • Involved in developing the DAO layer to interact with Vignette.  • Designed XML schema definition files for various transactions with Marsha to get the reservations availability information.  • Involved in preparing the castor mapping files for various Marsha Transactions.  • Helped to refractor existing code base into common components and application code to leverage greater reusability of common code in second phase code reviews.  • Involved in migrating the code from Java 1.4 to Java 1.5.  • Involved in refactoring the code to remove unnecessary exceptions thrown at various levels.  • Refractored the code to avoid direct dependency of the presentation layer on the DAO.  • Involved in preparing the code review pockets.  • Participated in the test case reviews, and manual testing of the enhancements during Pass0.  • Used clear case for defect tracking as well as activity tracking.  • Involved in fixing the defects during Pass 1, 2 3 of the integration testing.  • Build and deployment of the Marriott application using ANT on to dev and testing environments.  • Participated in the code reviews for various initiatives, Performed Static Code Analysis to follow the Best Practices for Performance and Security.    Environment: Java 1.6, HTML, JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS, AJAX, EJB, SOAP, Struts, Session Façade, DAO, JSTL, XML Schema, ANT Java/J2EE Developer Value Labs - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN May 2010 to June 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirement analysis and participated in the design of the application using UML and OO Analysis Design and Development.  • Implemented MVC web frameworks for the web applications using JSP/Servlet/Tag libraries that were designed using JSP.  • Used SQL, PL/SQL and Stored Procedures for Oracle back-end database.  • Involved in configuring the database to Oracle9i.  • Involved in developing a branded portal using the administration tool on web Sphere Application server.  • Used JDBC to configure files to access the database.  • Developed and tested Java Server Pages (JSP).  • Developed reusable AJAX components for web-tier.  • Developed customized JSP tags for project.  • Developed reusable DHTML components for enhanced user interaction.  • Monitored/Improved the performance and behavior of web applications.  • Extensively used and configured of Open Source technologies in the project.  • Developed business components for various functionalities.  • Implemented business validations for product pricing and product availability for Order Entry.  • Developed JUnit test cases for unit testing.  • Configured iBATIS2.0 for data access layer with Spring1.1 framework.  • Involved in peer-to-peer code reviews. Involved in usability and accessibility design issues of the system.  • Designed and developed Web pages using JSP, HTML, JavaScript, and JSF.  • Created extensive SQL queries to analyze data flows across multiple databases.    Environment: Java 1.5, JSP, Servlet, Oracle9i, Websphere, JDBC, JSP, AJAX, HTML, DHTML, Junit, Spring Framework, JavaScript. Education Bachelors in Computer Science in Computer Science JNTU Hyderabad - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN Skills JAVA (8 years), jQuery (5 years), WEBSPHERE (3 years), ORACLE (5 years), APACHE (4 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Frameworks: JSF 2.2, Apache Struts 2, Springs 4.1, JSF 2, Angular 4/1.5, JQuery  API's: Servlets, EJB, Java Naming and Directory Interface (JNDI)  Software:  Eclipse, WSAD, RAD, Toad, Microsoft Suite (Word, Excel, PowerPoint), Rational XDE, Rational Rose, STS, Brackets, Sublime Text, Visual studio code    Databases: IBM DB2, Oracle, Mysql and SQL Server  OS: Windows (8/7/XP Professional), UNIX  Servers: WebSphere (WAS), Sun Java Enterprise System, Tomcat  Quality Tools: HP Quality Center, Rally, Jira  Version Control: VSS, GIT, MS-TFS, SVN  Browsers IE, Chrome, Firefox  Other Tools Putty, WinScp, SQL Developer, TOAD