Sr. Full Stack Java Developer Sr. Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Full Stack Java Developer Irving, TX • 8 + years of IT experience in analysis, design, development, documentation, implementing and testing of web using Java and J2EE, Springs Framework, Struts Framework, Hibernate, Web Services (SOAP, Restful), JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Angular JS, AJAX and XML.  • Extensive experience with both core and advanced Java technologies which includes Java, XML, JavaScript, JEE, JSP, EJB 1.1/2.0/3.0, JDBC, Struts, Struts2, Servlets, JMS, JSF, JSF My Faces, Rich Faces, Prime Faces, Ice Faces, JPA, Java API for XML Web Services, Spring and Hibernate  • Expertise in web UI development using HTML, DHTML, CSS, Java Script, Angular-JS, Bootstrap, JSP and Struts Tag Library.  • Experience working with Apache Camel, Spring Integration& MULE.  • Hand on experience with Restful web services, used JAX-RS to implement RestFul applications in Java.  • Experience creating single page applications using Angular.js and Node.js.  • Have extensive experience in building and deploying applications on Web and Application Servers like Apache, JBoss, Weblogic, WebSphere, Glassfish and Tomcat.  • Experienced in JMS over messaging to exchange the information in more reliable and asynchronous way in Enterprise Applications. Used Apache Active MQ as JMS provider.  • Experience in writing test cases using Mockito, Power Mock.  • Used MockMVC to write integration test cases  • Experience in Design, Development and Implementation of multi-tier thin/thick client web based applications using Object Oriented Methodologies.  • Experience with Object Oriented Analysis and Design methodology using tools like Unified Modeling Language (UML) and Rational Unified Process (RUP) using Rational Rose.  • Experience with advanced front-end technologies like HTML, DHTML, JSON, JQuery, CSS, XML, and JavaScript and Angular JS.  • Expert in frontend technologies such as HTML, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, AJAX, JSTL and JSON.  • Experience in defining CAMEL content based switches for flow deviation  • Expertise in XML and related technologies like XSL, XSLT and parsers like JAXP (SAX, DOM) and JAXB.  • Possess work experience with middleware technologies like MQ-Series, Oracle Fusion (BPEL and OSB), and Apache CAMEL.  • Experience in Database Design, Creation and management of Schemas, writing Stored Procedures, functions, Triggers, DDL, DML SQL queries. Experience in writing SQL and PL/SQL programming.  • Hands on experience in using the Microservices in implementing the service layer with the combination on RX Java and Rabbit MQ.  • Experienced in Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection and used Apache Camel to integrate spring framework.  • Expertise in Object Oriented Programming using core Java, Groovy and J2EE.  • Knowledge in implementing server-side and client-side Web Services using WSDL.  • Client-Server File transfer with security features(TCP/UDP), (Socket programming using JAVA and C )  • Advanced development experience with latest JavaScript frameworks like React JS, Angular2, AngularJS 1.x, Backbone.js, Node.js, Require.js, D3.js, ES5 and ES6.  • Hands on experience in developing dynamic SPA's with AngularJS, jQuery and JavaScript for enhanced user experience.  • Experience in developing and implementing SOAP and RESTful Web Services using different Frameworks and connecting to Database.  • Extensively used build utilities like MAVEN, ANT for building of jar, war and ear files.  • Involved in all the stages of Software Development Life Cycle including Requirements, Analysis, Design, Implementation, Integration, Testing, Deployment and Maintenance.  • Hands-on experience in web development technologies such as JavaScript, jQuery, jQuery UI, AngularJS, AngularJS Routing, HTML5, CSS3, and Bootstrap  • Good understanding of AWS products including EC2, S3, DynamoDB, RDS, CloudWatch, Lambda.  • Good knowledge in using Amazon Web Services (Amazon EC2, Amazon Simple DB, Amazon RDS, Amazon Elastic Load Balancing, Amazon SQS, and AWS Identity), Pivotal Cloud and IBM Web SphereDeveloped a scalable queuing system to accommodate the ever-growing message flows across the systems using Amazon Simple Queuing System  • Developed several features for the software including initial client-server release, application class hierarchies, platform independent GUI libraries, a full auditing package and graphics retrieval.  • Experienced in Angular2 Components, AngularJS Controllers, Directives, Services, Factory and Service Resources, Routing, Promise, and Events.  • Created EAR file deployed on WebSphere 7.5 using ANT deployment tool and Apache Ant framework 1.5.  • Strong programming skills in Core Java Such as Multithreading, I/O Streams, Collection Interfaces and Exception Handling.  • Experienced in Test Management tools like Quality Assurance, JIRA.  • Assisted project manager in defining project scope, time & effort estimates and deliverable management.  • Ability to quickly adapt new environments and learn new technologies.  • Excellent analytical capabilities with strong communication skills. Work Experience Sr. Full Stack Java Developer TD Ameritrade - St. Louis, MO June 2018 to Present Description: TD Ameritrade is a brokerage firm based in Omaha, NE with major trading centers in Southlake, Texas and St Louis, Missouri. The letters TD are derived from Toronto-Dominion Bank, the largest shareholder. The company provides services for individuals and institutions that are investing online.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in application requirements gathering, analysis and design. Followed Agile software development and Involved in interactions with client on the requirements for clear understanding and clarifications  • Responsible for end-to-end development of project across all the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) stages.  • Applied Java 8 concepts like lambda expressions, Functional Interfaces and Java Stream API for Bulk Data Operations on collection etc.  • Involved in the development of components by using Java8, Spring boot and Spring Data to persist the data in DB.  • Developed dynamic web pages using HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, JavaScript, JSON, JQuery, Ajax, Bootstrap.  • Responsible towards Testing the software/application, Unit Testing doing by means of JUNIT.  • Prepare and Implement Project Plan using JIRA tool, it is the central point where all the work allocations and status updates are maintained.  • Used spring core annotations for Dependency Injection, Spring DI and Spring MVC for RESTful APIs and Spring Boot for microservices.  • Responsible for attending SCRUM meeting on daily basis.  • Document code consistently throughout the development process by listing a description of the program, special instructions, and any changes made in database tables on procedural, modular and database level.  • Used JavaScript, HTML, CSS, jQuery, TypeScript, AngularJS, Node.js, BootStrap to build front end graphical user interface for customer login, dashboard, portfolio tables.  • Developed REST APIs using Spring MVC REST and Jersey.  • Used Eclipse IDE for application Development and used Maven for build automation tool to compile and generate EAR, WAR, and JAR files.  • Developed front-end web page by using HTML5, CSS3 and Javascript taking advantage of the frameworks Angular JS.  • Deployed Spring Boot based micro services on Docker containers using Amazon ECS and used Docker Hub for registering the Docker images.  • Developed the application using Core Java, J2EE and JSP's. Worked on the development of the presentation tier using Servlets, JSP, Java Script, AJAX and JQuery.  • created reusable components using typescript on the client side in Angular2, used fast data access purpose React Js, NodeJS.  • Rabbit MQ was used to provide a single unifying transport that reduces cost and maintenance efforts, including support for HTTP, REST and JMS.  • Used Microservices with Spring Boot service interacting through amalgamation of REST and MQ message broker.  • Worked on AWS cloud services like EC2, S3, RDS, ELB, and EBS for installing, configuring and auto scaling.  • Used spring core annotations for Dependency Injection, Spring DI and Spring MVC for RESTful APIs and Spring Boot for microservices.  • Developed Restful services using Spring and Jersey integration and involved in creating Jersey filters, interceptors and exception mappers  • Developed Apache Camel endpoints and used producer template to route messages to JMS queues.  • Created REST Micro Services APIs using Spring Boot Application.  • Responsible for main module of the Hibernate 3.0 including all the key Hibernate features such as session support, transaction management, object caching or HQL.  • Setting up the test environment for developed classes using JUnit framework and maintaining the error log using Log4j Jar file.  • Developed unit testing framework using JUnit test cases for continuous integration testing and used JTest Tool for performance testing.  Environment: Java8, J2EE, JDK 1.8, Angular 2, Typescript, Spring, SOAP/Rest, WebServices, JavaScript, AWS, UML, HTML 5, CSS 3, JMS,Rabbit MQ,Jenkins,Spring cloud,Pivotal cloud foundry,BootStrap,Hibernate, JMS, AJAX, JQuery, SQL, Cucumber, JUnit, Maven, GIT, SVN, Linux scripts, Oracle 10g. Sr. Full Stack Java Developer US Cellular - Austin, TX December 2016 to June 2018 Description: U.S. Cellular is providing national network coverage and industry-leading innovations for which Nokia provides solution for managing their IPhone device and watch.  Responsibilities:  • Created Models, Overlays, Workflows, and shared functions using SMP (i.e. service management platform).  • Designed the applications using Struts MVC framework for easy maintainability.  • Participated in many front-end designing issues, provided creative and efficient ideas to optimize the design and effectively implemented them using JSP and CSS.  • Developed web GUI involving JSP, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, and XML and beans under MVC architecture, Configured struts-specific deployment descriptor (struts_config.xml).  • Developed HTML views with HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap and Angular JS 4.0.  • Developed UI Validation code using Java-script and Ajax to make some server-side calls.  • Used Java-J2EE patterns like Model View Controller (MVC), Business Delegate, Data Transfer Objects, Data Access Objects, factory patterns.  • Implemented Java 1.8 features for the existing application where ever required.  • Used Spring Framework AOP Module to implement logging in the application to know the application status.  • Implemented the application using Spring IOC, Spring MVC Framework, Spring Batch, Hibernate and handled the security using Spring Security Developed internationalized multi-tenant SaaS solutions with responsive UI's using Java or ReactJS, with NodeJS and CSS.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for a web application, page navigation using Angular 4/ AngularJS 1.x.  • Developed Web API using NodeJS and hosted on multiple load balanced API instances.  • Performed CRUD operations like Update, Insert and Delete data in Mongo DB.  • Worked on Production support to debug, analyze and fix the issues.  • Designed new web features using MVC Framework like Backbone.js and Node.js.  • Worked directly with the client to resolve some of the issues.  • Used weblogic11g and 12c for the deployments, resolved some of the server related issues by going through the server logs and additional debugging.  • Worked on Camel-based integration middle-ware solution for Provisioning Services by design and Implementation of business logic and data processing routes using Apache Camel.  • Created responsive web pages using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Typescript and Angular 2  • Excellent understanding of JavaScript libraries and frameworks such as NodeJS, AngularJS, ReactJS.  • Developed and designed web pages using with HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery and ReactJS.  • Involved in creating a new interactive and responsive website using HTML5, Bootstrap, Angular Js and React Js.  • Involved in setting up AWS services with EC2 instances, S3 bucket, IAM, RDS took part in deploying application in AWS along with writing and retrieving files to and from AWSS3 bucket for UI to render data faster.  • Used AngularJS to create Single Page Applications (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  • Used Angular 2 HTTP Client to Interact with Servers/backend and modularized the Application with NgModule.  • Participated in the collecting the requirements and analyze based on the existing system.  • Effectively used JIRA and tortoise subversion for version control and defect tracking.  • Worked on the environment setup and production deployments.  • Used maven as the tool to build the project and to create war and ear files.  • Front end validations are written using JavaScript.  • Performed Unit Testing using JUnit.Created automation framework in Selenium WebDriver using behavior driven approach like Cucumber.  • Responsible for execution of test cases to evaluate the test functionality and delivery of test reports.  • Met all project time lines and deadlines.  • Implemented Micro Services based Cloud Architecture on AWS Platform and Cloud Foundry.  • Developed J2EE Backing Beans, Action Classes, and Action Mapping and Application facades and hibernate classes to retrieve and submit using the JSF Framework.  • Handled final builds, deployments and management using ANT/ MAVEN scripts to customize EAR, WAR and JAR files and the application is deployed on WebSphere server.  • Used CVS for version control tool.  • Deployed the application on a JBoss server on a UNIX platform.  Environment: Java1.7/8,Core Java,J2EE, Maven, Spring MVC, Hibernate, XML, JSP, Servlets, Eclipse, Oracle, JavaScript, Angular JS, Angular 2/Angular 4,JSON, HTML, CSS, Cassandra, Spring 3.0,Struts,AWS,JSF, micro-services, Hibernate, SOAP, JSTL, JQuery, Oracle, SVN, Eclipse, ANT, Apache Tomcat, Cloud Foundry, Ajax, SVN,JBoss,Docker,JUnit,DB2, Apache camel, Groovy ,SOA, SQL, PL/SQL, JAX-WS, DOJO, Log4j Sr. Java FullStack Developer American Express - Phoenix, AZ April 2015 to November 2016 Description: American Express is a leading credit card company with a vast presence throughout the world, worked as a full stack java developer on a project that enables American express card holders to find restaurants, atms and hotels in their vicinity which accept American express cards.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis and design phases of software development life cycle (SDLC)  • Responsible for the analysis, documenting the requirements and architecting the application based on J2EE Standards.  • Maintained constant communication with Business Analyst and Business Users to identify information needs as per business requirements.  • Used spring as middle tier application framework, persistence strategy using spring support for Hibernate and declarative transaction management.  • Designed and developed RESTful web services, micro services, to create, view, deploy, and update applications.  • Micro Services design and development using JHipster (Yeoman Generator) to create Spring boot at backend and Angular at frontend.  • Developed client side validation using AngularJS.  • Worked on developing Web Service Client using SOAP, WSDL to verify the payment history of the customer.  • Utilized Hibernate for Object/Relational Mapping (ORM) purposes for persistence onto the DB2 database and designed RESTful web services for handling AJAX requestsResponsible for maintaining and expanding AWS (Cloud Services) infrastructure using AWS Stack especially worked with database setup and maintenance on AWS EC2.  • Used Hibernate, object relational-mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with SQL-based scheme.  • Developed the JQuery callback functions to implement asynchronous communication using AJAX.  • Scrum methodology was used during the product life cycle.  • Designed, Developed & Deployed server-side common utilities for the application and the front- dynamic web pages using Servlets, JSP, Angular-JS, Node JS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, HTML/DHTML and CSS  • Created detailed design documents, use case diagrams and class diagrams.  • Built the backend Rest API using Spring MVC and Hibernate ORM frameworks.  • Performed backend migration from Spring MVC to Spring Boot.  • Effectively utilized core J2EE design patterns: MVC, DI/IOC, DAO, Factory, Business delegate, Service Locator, Singleton in the project implementation.  • Handled the Spring components such as Dispatcher Servlet, Controllers, Model and View Objects and View Resolver  • Involved in writing application Context XML file that contains declarations and other dependent objects declaration.  • Utilized HTML5 and AngularJS in implementing some of the front-end components.  • Monitored the control using Spring IOC.  • Implemented generating the verification hash code using crypto package on NodeJS and Added user validations and user permissions by using the NodeJS.  • Implemented modules into Node.js to integrate with design and requirements & also back-end service using Node.js and REACT modules and implemented client side Interface using React JS.  • Used the J2EE components like JSP's, servlets and implemented spring framework for MVC architecture.  • Used spring managed beans to use windows session state framework to persist session to the database.  • Created an XML configuration file for Hibernate -- Database connectivity.  • Developed spring configuration file to define beans, data source and Hibernate configuration properties.  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript framework like Angular.JS, Node.js. Used building rich internet applications.  • Involved in developing JSP pages and Servlets and using TagLibs for the web tier and validating the client data using the Java Script.  • Developed content pages with CSS3 layout and style markup presentations and used JavaScript methods and properties  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON, XML and jQuery.  • Involved in Design and Developing of the front end using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to perform validation on the client side.  Environment: Java,J2EE, Angular JS, Node JS,Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Servlets, JSP, JavaScript, JDBC, , Ajax, HTML5, XML, IOC, Web Services, Hibernate, Angular JS, JSON, XML, HTML, CSS3, Jquery, Oracle9i, SQL, Jboss, Maven, Junit, Apache Tomcat Rest API, Web sphere, Oracle, AWS, log4j Sr Java/J2EE Consultant Gravitant - Austin, TX October 2013 to March 2015 Description: Gravitant is a company that develops cloud-based software to enable organizations to easily plan, buy and manage software and computing services from multiple suppliers across hybrid clouds, worked as a java consultant on a project, primarily focusing on the application development and front end integration.  Responsibilities:  • Worked in an agile work environment with Content Management system for workflow management and content versioning.  • Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several design patterns such as Singleton, Front controller, Factory, Facade etc.  • Worked on Spring DAO module encapsulated using DAO pattern to implement persistent layer components.  • Implemented major concepts of Core Java, J2EE, Servlets3.0, JSP, JDBC, MVC, Spring Framework, Hibernate5.0.x, and XML.  • Used and implemented the application using Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring Annotations modules and Hibernate.  • Used different spring modules and wired different layer components using Dependency Injection.  • Used spring - ORM to integrate Hibernate and creation of Hibernate POJO's.  • Developed Web Services to allow communication between applications through REST over HTTP.  • Was initially part of developing front end components using JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and AngularJS. Developed dynamic and rich UI using HTML, Bootstrap and AngularJS.  • Worked extensively with Core Java, Multithreading, and Collections.  • Used JSON, XML, XSL and XSLT for consuming RESTful Web Services.  • Implemented AJAX base applications using DOJO and GWT API for Performance oriented and browser  • Developed various Action classes and Form bean classes using Struts framework  • Implemented Event Manager, e-Distribution Admin modules using Struts-Spring-Hibernate  • Used Object/Relational mapping tool Hibernate to achieve object to database table persistency  • Developed Hibernate in Data Access Layer to access and update information in the database.  • Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection and integrated with Hibernate.  • Created Single Page Application with loading multiple views using route services and adding more user experience to make it more dynamic by using Angular.JS framework.  • Used Core Spring framework for Dependency injection to provide loose coupling of objects.  • Involved in creation of Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers in PL/SQL.  • Used Web services and SOAP messages for getting data to and from windows applications, get different tier timing data to compare acceptable range in JPFT application and for connectivity testing between application server -application server and application server -portal server in the IVDT application.  • Developed special cases where Spring Cloud already assigns meaning to the metadata map.  • Logged Defects using JIRA.  • Developed Maven and ANT Scripts to do compilation, packaging and deployment in JBoss server.  • Used Remedy tool for creating change tickets and handling production bugs.  Environment: Java/J2ee, Servlets3.0, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring Integration, Hibernate 5.0.x, JSP, XML, XSL/XSLT, JSON, JQUERY, AngularJS, Bootstrap, SOAP, RESTful Web Services, JSON, Junit, Oracle11g, Eclipse, Maven, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML, SVN and Maven, Selenium IDE, WebSphere. Java/J2EE Developer World Fuel Services - Doral, FL April 2012 to September 2013 Description: World Fuel Service is a leading global fuel logistics company, principally engaged in the marketing, sale and distribution of Aviation, Marine and Land fuel products and related services on a worldwide basis. Customers value its competitive fuel prices, trade credit availability, fuel price risk management, logistical support, fuel quality control and fuel management.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed user interface using Struts tags, JSP, HTML and JavaScript.  • Developed user specific Highlights (dashboard menu) section, Home page, Admin home page, user module (Modify/search users, create user's screens with assigning various roles) using Spring MVC framework, Hibernate ORM Module, XML, JSP and XSLT.  • Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing MVC architecture (Struts Framework) and Hibernate.  • Implemented functionality using Servlet, JSP, HTML and Struts Framework, Hibernate, spring, Java Scripts and Web logic.  • Involved in implementing and maintaining large content driven and E-commerce based application.  • Optimized the inventory levels at retail stores and transport operations using advanced resource planning modules using J2EE and RDBMS technologies.  • Expertise in application development using JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JNDI, spring, Hibernate, IBATIS, Mybatis, JSF, EJB, XML, Web Services- SOAP, WSDL.  • Implemented MVC architecture using JSF framework using JSPs as GUI development and DB Modeling using NOSQL and Oracle 10g.  • Performed client side validations using JavaScript and Struts validation framework.  • Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several design patterns such as MVC, Business Delegate, Data Access Object, Singleton and Factory.  • Java Message Service (JMS) API is used to allow application components to create, send, receive, and read messages.  • Extensively used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Implemented dependency injection of the Spring IOC to inject beans and to integrate with O/R mapping tool Hibernate.  • Implemented Graphical User Interface (GUI) of the project using Angular.js, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap, JSON and XML as front-end to improve the visual effects.  • Applied Responsive Web design by using fluid, proportion-based grids, flexible images and CSS3 media queries to provide different view experiences on a wide range of devices.  • Used RESTful WebService to handle varied HTTP methods and Internet media types.  • Involved in designing the user interfaces using HTML, CSS, and JSPs  • Designed and implemented the AJAX framework for exposing the java methods for asynchronous communication with client using DWR (Direct Web Remoting).  • The required changes to the record and save the updated information back to the database.  • Involved in writing shell script to export oracle table's data into flat files and performed unit testing using JUNIT and used Log4j for logging and automatic batch jobs.  • Developed stored procedures and triggers using PL/SQL to calculate and update the tables to implement business logic.  • Used Oracle WebLogic Application server to deploy the application.  Environment: Java ,servlets, jsp, jsf, java script, Jenkins,Core Java, JSP, Servlets, Hibernate Framework, Spring MVC, Oracle, UNIX Shell Scripts, XSL, XSLT, Eclipse 3.x, My Eclipse, HTML, UML, Java Script, JUnit, JAXP, XML, Java EE6,ORACLE ADF and ORACLE PL/SQL experience, Junit, IntellIj, Angular JS, WebLogic 8.1/9.x/10.x, Backbone.js, multithreading, Java/J2ee Developer E-Bay - Austin, TX September 2011 to March 2012 Description: The GSI eBay Remote Tools system is a browser-based application designed to allow users external to GSI the ability to manage product and catalog content within the context of a single GSI-hosted web store or group of stores. In conjunction with system-to-system data feeds and data entry by GSI employees, Remote Tools gives our partners direct control over their e-commerce businesses.  Responsibilities:  • Experience in Design and Development of Web Services using RESTful APIs and SOAP.  • Designed various interactive front end web pages on Magellan application using a three-tier architecture using Java, J2EE, HTML, JavaScript, JSON, Ajax, and JSP.  • Implemented the application using Spring IOC, Spring MVC Framework, spring Batch and handled the security using Spring Security.  • Used the Struts validation, Struts Custom tags and Tiles Framework in the presentation layer  • Worked on setting up and integrating the registration servlet application in WebSphere 6.1 application server with the back ends.  • Developed application using Eclipse IDE and deployed in Web Sphere application server.  • Communicated between different applications using JMS.  • Ensured tagging implementation is correct by walking through the code, working with digital pulse debugger and Charles web debugging proxy. Finally validate data quality by validating reports in Adobe Analytics and Ad-hoc analysis (Discover) tool.  • Developed new requirements with Spring, Struts and Hibernate.  • Used JQuery for basic animation and end user screen customization purposes.  • Developed creative intuitive user interfaces that address business and end-user needs, while considering the technical, physical and temporal constraints of the users.  • Developed internationalized multi-tenant SaaS solutions with responsive UI's with NodeJS and CSS.  • Worked closely with UI Design team and used HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript.  • Implemented Spring MVC framework, project Build by using Jenkins and deployment by using ARM.  • Designed the various UI screens required for the loan information, financials. Used JSF MVC at presentation layers.  • Developed JMS message listeners using Spring JMS Template to consume messages from queue.  • Developed User Interface Components using JSF ( Java Server Faces).  • Designed web module in spring framework for the J2EE application.  • Edited Technical Document (Run Book) for CPM Report Builder.  • Implement database work by using SQL developer, TOAD.  • Designed the business object with JDBC and using Spring DAO. Responsible for writing mapper files.  • Used SVN for version control.  • Responsible for Bug Fixing (Debugging) of the application.  • Generated Deployment descriptor files like ejb-jar.xml, Web logic-ejb- jar.xml, Web logic-cmp-rdbms- jar.xml, build.xml, and application.xml used for the application development.  • Involved in writing the stored procedures and functions using oracle database.  Environment: Core JAVA 5/6, JavaScript, Servlets, JSP's, JDBC API, EJB, JPA, PostgreSQL, Spring-Core, AOP, Hibernate, JSF, HTML, CSS, AJAX, SOAP WS, RESTFUL WS, SOA, Oracle 10g, DAO, SVN, ANT, Eclipse, Unix, HTML, PL/SQL, Apache Tomcat, MYSQL, SQL Developer, DB2, JUnit, CSS,Unix Shell, Microsoft SQL Server, Log 4j. Java Developer Symmetric Solutions - IN March 2010 to September 2011 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the review and analysis of the Functional Specifications, and Requirements Clarification Defects etc.  • Involved in the analysis and design of the initiatives using Rapid Application Development.  • Involved in the development of the User Interfaces using HTML , JSP, Javascript and CSS 3.  • Implemented MVC architecture by using Struts/Swings to send and receive the data from front-end to business layer.  • Used JDBC calls in the JSP to access MySQL Database.  • Developed and maintained various substation automated solutions for centralized management  • Experience in automation of test cases using Python, C and Shell script.  • Experience in AIX, Linux and Windows environments.  • Performed deployment of applications on IBM WebSphere Application Server.  • Created several custom tags for JSP for maximum re-usability for user interface components.  • Used struts Action Servlet to route the request to corresponding Action Classes.  • Used Struts Validator Framework to do validations  • Used Commons Logging framework (log4j) utility to log error, info and debug messages  • Performed Unit Testing and interacted with QA for testing. Involved in implementing validations, exception handling.  • Used AJAX for implementing part of the functionality for Customer Registration, View Customer information modules.  • Used Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping (ORM) and data persistence.  • Involved in Spring and Hibernate Integration to perform the CRUD operations on Oracle database  • Used Axis2 to implementing Web Services for Integration of different systems.  • Published APIs using restful services for the consumption through Service Endpoint Interface  • Used Junit test environment for test based development.  • Worked with XML, XSLT for building up & transforming the xml files.  • Used waterfall model for the software development process.  • Programmed clients website and applications - worked collaboratively with clients Teammates and web analysts to complete designs and estimates.  • Provided insightful ideas for developing effective and accurate codes - Evaluated latest technology on the market and made recommendations to clients to integrate new designs as available by new technology.  • Collaborated with end users and other related departments to ensure that the website is meeting the client's expectations and business requirements.  • Collaborated with technical team members to integrate back-end and front-end elements.  Environment: Windows , Java (JDK 1.5), Struts, Spring, WebSphere, RAD, HTML, JavaScript, JDBC, Hibernate, JDBC Template, SOA, REST,XML, XSD, XSLT, Servlets, JSP, Oracle, Log 4j, JUnit, MS Visio, Waterfall Model, Windows, CVS, Maven. Education Bachelor's Skills ECLIPSE, EJB, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, Angular, Javascript, Jquery, Node Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Programming Languages: Java (J2SE1.8/1.6/1.5, J2EE 6/5), J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL, C, C++  J2EE Technologies: EJB, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JDBC, JSF, RMI, JNDI, JMS  Web Technologies: HTML, DHTML, AngularJS, Angular JS 2,JQuery, XML, XSLT, CSS, JSON, JSON-DTD, AJAX,Bootstrap, NodeJS, ReactJS, IDE IBM RAD, RSA, Eclipse, MyEclipse, NetBeans,  JBuilder, IntelliJ Application/Web Server IBM WebSphere, Oracle WebLogic,  JBOSS, Apache Tomcat and Glassfish  Databases: Oracle SQL, MySQL, DB2, Mongo DB  XML Technologies: XML, XSLT, XPATH, SAX, DOM, JDOM, AXIS, JAXB  Web Services: SOAP, REST, JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS  Methodologies: RUP (Rational Unified Process), Agile, Waterfall, SCRUM, Rapid Application  Application Frameworks: Struts 1.x/2.x, spring (Dependency Injection, Spring MVC, Factory Pattern, Core,  Spring Context, Spring DAO, Spring IOC, Spring JDBC, Spring Security, Spring  Boot, Spring Batch, spring with Hibernate) ORM Frameworks JPA, Hibernate,  Spring JPA, DAO OO Modeling Rational Rose, MS Visio Version Control Clear  Case, SVN (Apache Subversion), CVS, Git  Other Tools: ANT, Maven, Log4j, Jenkins, Junit, JIRA, Selenium Cloud Computing AWS  (Amazon Web Services), EC2, RDS, DynamoDB, S3 Micro services Swagger, Pivotal  Cloud Foundry, Spring Micro Services, Springboot, Netflix Eureka  Operating Systems: Windows, Linux, UNIX