MuleSoft Developer MuleSoft <span class="hl">Developer</span> MuleSoft Developer - Acelity/KCI Texas City, TX • 6 years of IT Experience, Experience in Application Software Specifications, Design, Development, Testing and debugging, Maintenance.  • 4 years of experience in Mule ESB Development.  • Full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) Extensive Object-Oriented Programming experience using Java and J2EE.  • Experience in developing the integration workflows using an ESB framework.  • worked on both Enterprise and Community Edition of MULE ESB.  • Experienced in developing the Enterprise and Web applications on n-tier Architecture using Java/J2EE Technologies, MVC frameworks including Java Server Faces (JSF), JDBC, Hibernate, spring, JSP and Servlets.  • Expertise in implementing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) in SOAP/RESTful web services.  • Implemented Data Transformations using Mule ESB.  • Experience in Java Persistence API.  • Experience in Integrating Salesforce and other external applications using SalesForce.com SOAP API.  • Worked on iPaaS (Mule Soft), a platform for building and deploying integrations within the cloud and between the cloud and the enterprise.  • Worked on Mule ESB components like File Transport, SMTP Transport, FTP/SFTP Transport, JDBC Connector, and Transaction Manager.  • Experience with integration Patterns, integration tools, EAI, Transformations, XML Schemas, and XSLT.  • Well experienced in working with application servers including IBM WebSphere, Red Hat JBoss Oracle Web Logic and Apache Tomcat servers.  • Experience in Transformations using XSLT, Data Weave, and Custom Java Transformers to transform data from one format to another format using Mule ESB.  • Created Mule ESB based tooling suite for handling message transitioning, validation, enrichment and routing to upstream and downstream entity data consumers.  • Experience in ANT and Maven build tools for building and deploying application on web/App servers.  • Experience in implementing various design patterns including Singleton, Front End Controller, Data Access Object, Session Facade, Business Delegate, Service Locator, MVC, Data Transfer Object and Business Delegate.  • Involved in preparation of developer test cases, execution and preparation of scope & traceability matrix.  • Excellent understanding of full Software Development Life Cycle and experience implementing waterfall, RUP and Agile SDLC methodologies.  • Worked extensively on technologies Spring, Web services, SOAP, XML, JMS, JDBC and various Databases like Oracle, MySQL and Microsoft SQL server during my tenure in Software Development.  • Proven ability in quick understanding and learning of new technologies and their application in business solutions with strong communication skills and can work under pressure in achieving organizational goals.  • Utilized MuleSoft features like DataWeave, API designer and various Mule ESBconnectors  • Strong analytical, interpersonal and communications skills. Demonstrated track record of analyzing situations, implementing solutions in a fast-paced environment. Work Experience MuleSoft Developer Acelity/KCI - San Antonio, TX October 2016 to Present Project: DWC patient app  Acelity is a global advanced wound care company, offering innovative solutions from the hospital to home that improve the lives of patients in more than 90 countries. Dwc patient app helps patients and hospitals to order the wound care devices through the mobile application.    Responsibilities:  • Mule ESB experience in implementing Service - Oriented Architecture (SOA) and Enterprise Application Integration (EAI) using Mule Server 4.x. and any point studio 7.  • Extensively worked on Any Point Studio and Mule Integration Platform and used it to interface application services by utilizing message routing, data transformation and service creation utilities.  • Hands on experience in Data weave Language (DWL) to access payload data, properties and variable of Mule Message Flow.  • Participated in deployment of Mule ESB applications using Cloud Hub and Strong experience in Integration using Mule ESB in integrating various third-party solutions.  • Responsible for writing application code & development activities for large projects especially in a SOA environment and Reliability Patters with MuleSoft ESB.  • Technical experience in the areas of Object-Oriented Analysis (OOA) and Object-Oriented Design (OOD) using UML and SDLC of distributed applications. Hugely experienced in using MuleSoft that integrates APIs, databases and SaaS applications and deployed MuleSoft applications to Cloud Hub and on-premise servers.  • Extensively worked on both Enterprise and Community edition of MULE ESB. Have an experience working MULE API manager and RAML.  • Utilized MuleSoft features like Data weave, API designer and various connectors to ensure robust and loosely coupled integration layer every time.  • Developed REST API's using Spring MVC and Spring boot, hosted all micro services on PCF.  • Scaled the applications and configured appropriate environment variables in PCF environment.  • Deployed the applications on Pivotal Cloud Foundry.  • Extensive experience on Agile methodology.  • Worked on spring boot framework.  • Responsible to develop RESTful web services in Mule ESB based on SOA architecture.  • Strong application integration experience using Mule ESB with connectors, transformations, Routing, RabbitMQ.  • Knowledge in working with databases like MS SQL and My SQL  • Have written MUnit test cases to validate Mule Flows  • Integrated different systems that includes File Upload, Data Base, Web services and spring services etc. using Mule ESB  Environment: MuleSoft 3.8, Anypoint Studio V6, Rabit MQ 3.5.6 MuleSoft Developer AreaTrend LLC - North Canton, OH March 2016 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Agile-Sprint methodologies to do requirements gathering, analysis and planning, development &testing.  • Developed rest-based API's for two different mobile applications.  • Used Mule4 runtime for development.  • Used API-led connectivity approach to develop three layered architecture.  • Experience in MuleSoft Anypoint API platform on designing and implementing Mule APIs.  • Created REST API's using RAML and developed flows using APIKIT Router.  • Created various RAML resources to implement REST Based APIs as a part of project implementation.  • Developing flows / orchestrations for integrating the components written on top of different internal platforms using Mule ESB.  • Developed MuleSoft ESB projects for the services with synchronous and asynchronous mule flows.  • Used API Gateway as a proxy service.  • Used MuleSoft validation module to verify the incoming messages.  • Created reusable API fragments using RAML.  • Configured API Auto discovery to manage the API's and policy management.  • Used Database Connectors to connect with respective systems using Mule ESB.  • Used data weave for transformations  • Used all the Mule Connectors like HTTP, Choice Routers, Database  • Used (SQL) Query Language and invoked Stored Procedures to retrieve data from oracle Database  • Experience in deploying/managing Mule flows to Cloud Hub  • Used GIT as a version and source controlling tool and deployed the application on cloud hub  • Used CI / CD tools like Jenkins, Maven and GitHub during the development and deployment  • Used Postman to test the services    Environment: Mule ESB 4.1.3, Anypoint studio (7.2.3), Munit, XML, RAML, Maven, Jenkins, Sql developer, Web Logic 10.3.3, Log4j, Unix, Rally. MuleSoft Integration Developer BizLink Technology Inc - Fremont, CA September 2015 to February 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed the application using Mule ESB and build & deployed the services.  • Involved in Agile - Sprint methodologies to do requirements gathering, analysis and planning, development & testing  • Involved in Agile scrum meetings, updating the tasks based on the user stories in Rally.  • Implemented an application based on the top of Mule ESB Library.  • Used Any Point Studio IDE and 3.X Runtime for the development process.  • Involved in writing application code and development activities especially in a SOA environment with Mule ESB.  • Involved in creating http inbound & outbound flows, custom java and XSLT transformers and Security of Mule endpoint through WSSR.  • Used File Connector to archive the incoming payload and send the payload through Mule Flow.  • Involved in handling Various Exception Strategies that notifies the user of any Issue.  • Worked on Choice Exception Strategy to handle all exceptions.  • Developed an Integration Component with third party application using Mule ESB  • Utilized partner WSDL for ESB to Salesforce & SAP integrations.  • Created Maven Archetypes for generating fully functional REST web service supporting both XML and JSON Message transformation.  • Expertise in using the enterprise security, notifications features provide by Mule.  • Involved in Transformations using XSLT, Data Weave, and Custom Java Transformers to transform data from one format to another format using Mule ESB.  • Integrating data using Sales Force, JMS, HTTP, Web-Service connectors.  • Used Web Service Consumer Connector to consume the Web services in Mule.  • Experience in implementing Web Services using SOAP, REST and XML/HTTP technologies  • Deployed Mule applications into MMC (Mule Management Console)  • Configured different Mule connectors like HTTP, Database, NetSuite and Salesforce  • Created Jenkins user guide documentation and provided to users  • Developed a RAML based REST web service API's in Mule  • Used GIT for the Version Control    Environment: Java, J2EE, JMS, JDBC, EJB, Mule ESB 3.5, Any Point Studio 5.4.0, HTML, XML, RAML, WSDL,Web logic, Log4j, Oracle11g, SQL Server, JUnit, JNDI, Eclipse, Maven, MMC, CloudHub. Java Developer Adroit Infogen - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2012 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirement gathering, designing the system, database Model, development, testing and implementing the system.  • Preparing Technical Design Documents for individual module (Broker Module) and application.  • Preparing Design Documentation for communicating with internal and external systems.  • Application has multiple channels (JMS, MQ, UI) to receive inputs from different systems and send acknowledge/information to different authorized system.  • Extensively worked on JMS using point-to-point messaging Domains for implementing Exchange of information through Messages.  • Designing and Developed Message Driven Beans (MDB) for receiving asynchronous messages sent on IBM MQ.  • Implemented common framework to send message to authorized system using JMS/MQ/Application Server.  • Involving in design and implement to provide web services using AXIS, WSDL, JAX-WS, XML, JAXB and EJB.  • Used JAXB for XML Parsing and Convert to Domain Object.  • Create an XA data source to implement two phase commits between MQ Message and Data Base operation.  • Developed presentation layer using Struts Framework (Validators, Action, Dyna validator form, Processor, and Message-Resource).  • Used Spring Framework that leverages the Struts Action Class and implemented the dependency injection architecture.  • Developed UI and UI Validation Functionalities using struts validator feature.  • Developed the Action Classes, Action Form Classes, created JSPs using Struts tag libraries and configured in struts-config.xml and web.xml files.  • Involved in writing Junit test cases using RAD IDE.  • Collect appropriate user interface messages to display them in UI using common message service and UI.  • Used Stored Procedures and wrote queries in Oracle Database.  • Various tools like ANT, Maven LOG4j, and JUNIT have been used in the project.  • Developed common Data Access Object to persist and fetch the data using Hibernate and Spring DAO API.    Environment: Windows XP, JDK 1.6, Servlets3.0, JSP 2.2, HTML, XHTML, XSLT, XPATH, CSS, JDBC, JMS, JSP, JSTL, JQUERY, AJAX, SOAP, WSDL, Web Services, Oracle 10g, STS, Maven, Agile development process, PL/SQL, Spring MVC, Web Sphere 8.0.0.1, GIT, JUnit, and Log4j. Education Bachelor's in computer science in science & Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana Master's in computer science in computer science Northwestern Polytechnic University Skills Ms sql server, Ms sql server 2008, Sql server, Sql server 2008, Mysql, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Pl/sql, Sql, C++, Html, Javascript, Svn, Visualizer, Xml, Ejb, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jaxb Additional Information Technical Skills:    Mule  Anypoint Studio, Mule Server 3.x, RAML, EJB, Mule ESB Flows, Data Weave, Connectors, Message Processors, Data Mapper, Deploy to Cloud, Deploy to MMC, Components, Scopes, filters.    Languages C, C++, Java, SQL, PL/SQL  Technologies JSP, Servlet, Struts, MVC, JSF, Spring, EJB 3.0, JNDI, JMS, JTA, JAXB, Hibernate  Databases Oracle 10g/9i/8i, MySQL, MS SQL Server 2008  Web Technologies JavaScript, AJAX, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, CSS  Web Server Apache Tomcat 8  Testing JUnit, MUnit  Tools SQL Developer, DB Visualizer, Toad  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP, FTP and SOAP.  SOA SOAP, WSDL, XSD, XML.  Version Control SVN, CVS and Clear Case, GitHub