Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Full Stack Developer - Oracle Roseland, NJ ? 8+ years of experience in development and implementation of Web-based Client Server applications using Java and J2EE technologies (Front-End & Back-End)  ? Working knowledge in multi-tiered distributed environment, OOAD concepts, good understanding of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) and familiarity of Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  ? Expert in HTML5/CSS3 development and have experience in Backbone.js, Require.js, node.js, angular.js, Grunt js, Responsive design.  ? Experience in the full software development life cycle involving Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Implementation of Java/J2EE application software in web-based environments along with diversified exposure in Software Process Engineering, designing and building a Web Application using Java/J2EE Technology & open source applications.  ? Expertise in application development using JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JNDI, spring, Hibernate, JSF, EJB2.0/3.0, XML, Web Services- SOAP, WSDL.  ? Expertise in XML and related technologies like XSL, XSLT and parsers like JAXP (SAX, DOM) and JAXB Experience in Database Design, Creation and management of Schemas, writing Stored Procedures, functions, Triggers, DDL, DML SQL queries. Experience in writing SQL and PL/SQL programming.  ? Involved in building and deploying Apache ANT/ MAVEN scripts for deployment and customizing WAR/ JAR file management for web applications.  ? Provided technical assistance for integration of Appian systems along with external systems such as SAP.  ? Conducted detailed analysis to support designing and development of BPM applications.  ? Sound experience in Agile development methodologies like TDD and BDD and implementation of tests with selenium, cucumber/capybara in Ruby  ? Built 5 new web applications using React, Node, and Sass and deployed them in less than a year  ? Extensive experience in developing GUI using HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, JSF/Prime Faces, Angular JS, Bootstrap JS and AJAX.  ? Responsible for setting up Angular JS 4.0 framework for UI development. Developed html views with HTML5, CSS3, JSON and AngularJS 2.0.  ? Expertise in developing front-end systems with Backbone JS and Node JS as a platform for web application  ? Experience in creating comprehensive web applications using MEAN stack implemented with MS SQL, Express, Angular 2/4/5 and Node.js, Java 8.  ? Diverse experience utilizing tools in N-tier and Microservices architecture applications using Spring Boot, Spring Cloud config, Netflix OSS components(Eureka, Zuul, Hystrix), Pivotal Cloud Fundry, AWS, Rabbit MQ, Kafka, Zookeeper, Cassandra, My SQL, Restful Web Services.  ? Experience with Core Java with Multithreading, Concurrency, Exception Handling, File handling, IO, Generics, Data structures and Collections, Garbage Collection.  ? Conduct in-house and public workshops and training seminars: Extreme Programming, Test-Driven Development, Agile Development, .NET Development, Design Patterns, "Communicating with Tests" seminar.  ? Worked on the creating different screen using ExtJs worked on writing some Extjs Plugin.  ? Good experience in using Amazon Web Services (AWS) and AWS SNS/SQS for delivering messages.  ? Architecting and implementing Portfolio Recommendation Analytics Engine using Hadoop MR, Oozie, Spark SQL, Spark Mlib and Cassandra.  ? Expertise in using configuration management tool like CVS and GIT for version controlling.  ? Expert in Various Agile methodologies like SCRUM, Test Driven Development, Incremental and Iteration methodology and Pair Programming as well as implementing Waterfall model.  ? Knowledge of Multithreading/synchronization, NoSQL Database: MongoDB.  ? Experienced in Collected logs data from various sources and integrated in to HDFS using Flume and experience in developing custom UDFs for Hive.  ? Experienced in testing data in HDFS and Hive for each transaction of data.  ? Experienced in importing and exporting data using Sqoop from HDFS to Relational Database Systems and vice-versa.  ? Experienced with Akka building high performance and reliable distributed applications in Java and Scala.  ? Knowledge and experience in job work-flow scheduling and monitoring tools like Oozie and Zookeeper.  ? Hands on experience in Core Java, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, C#, JavaScript.  ? Knowledge of Eclipse tool for the development of Java projects.  ? Hands on experience Struts and Spring.  ? Good experience in Shell programming.  ? Knowledge in configuration and managing - Cloudera's Hadoop platform along with CDH3&4 clusters.    EDUCATIN: Work Experience Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Oracle - Minneapolis, MN February 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Designed and developed User Interface of application modules using HTML, JSP, CSS, JavaScript (client-side validations), JQuery and AJAX.  ? Worked on Mongo DB and wrote code which finds, update, save and insert data to Mongo DB.  ? Developed the DAO layer with Mongo DB by writing Mongo queries.  ? Worked on upgrading the Mongo DB version from 2.4 to 2.6.  ? Used Spring Data Mongo DB as the persistence framework in retrieving the user and medical benefits details from Mongo DB.  ? Used Scala for coding the components in Play and Akka.  ? Used scala scripts for spark machine learning libraries API execution for decision trees, ALS, logistic and linear regressions algorithms.  ? Strong experience with Microservices, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Cloud Foundry, Netflix OSS stack.  ? Proven ability in developing BDD scripts with Cucumber and writing step definitions for behaviour  ? Experience in Automation testing using Selenium Web Driver, JUnit and Maven.  ? Used Apache Kafka (Message Queues) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information between multiple business applications. Involved in developing an automation tool, in Java and Scala on Akka Framework  ? Responsible for overall Docker &Kubernetes setup, configuration and Architecture.  ? Configured and maintained a large-scale Docker based PaaS environment using kubernetes  ? Used React JS and Node JS to develop faster, scalable application.  ? I used JSF and prime faces to upload files and reasoning for custom templating.  ? Implemented Dozer bean mapping for mapping the domain objects.  ? Integrate JPA and EJB database access with JSF user interfaces.  ? Extensive experience in developing Web Services applications using REST Client, REST API, SOAP UI, dozer mapper.  ? Linux and windows servers along with cloud strategies of Amazon Web Services.  ? Proficient in writing Cloud Formation Templates (CFT) in YAML and JSON format to build the AWSservices with the paradigm of Infrastructure as a Code.  ? Implemented dozer mapping service to map entity properties into domain properties and jackson parsing for input JSON to REST endpoints.  ? Built data visualizations to monitor file server load, web server speeds, data processing and more using D3, Backbone.js.  ? Experience in deploying the Cassandra cluster in cloud, on premises, data storage and disaster recovery.  ? Experience in designing data models in Cassandra and working with Cassandra Query Language.  ? Created web application prototype using jQuery and Backbone.Js.  ? Expert in implementing unified data platform to gather data from different sources using Kafka and Java Producers and consumers.  ? Migrated CareFirst's My Account Java stack pages into React.js stack.  ? Contributed greatly to increases in code quality and productivity through his leadership and guidance in areas such as Test/Behavior Driven Development, Refactoring, Pair Programming (Extreme Programming/XP), and Agile Estimation and Planning  ? Worked on the Implementation of system as an independent component to be supported/integrated with Appian based BPM applications to deliver management capabilities using Appian 7.5 SAIL features  ? Familiar with concepts of Azure and OpenStack Cloud Based Technologies.  ? Experienced in installing and troubleshooting CF installations on IAAS (Azure, AWS etc.)  ? Involved in design and development of keyword-driven automation framework using Selenium Webdriver.  ? Currently working on developing Server less functioning using AWS lambda with JAVA 8.  ? Worked on different Automation tooling techniques to support reporting/development and the CI/CD pipeline.  ? Used React JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  ? Implemented various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library.  ? Configured servlets, java classes, Spring Framework, Hibernate, database drivers, data sources related to project.  ? Worked on Integration of Spring and Hibernate Frameworks using Spring ORM Module.  ? Developed software components for the Microkernel team using JAVA8 /J2EE.  ? Used Jenkins Continuous Integration build server to perform Pull Requests and Dev environment builds.  ? Involved in development of different modules using Spring boot framework, Restful Web Services, JPA and integrate the modules.  ? Built RESTful APIs in front of different types of NoSQL storage engines allowing other groups to quickly meet their Big Data needs and remain insulated from rapid technology changes in the NoSQL field.  ? All the functionality of the application is implemented using Spring IO / Spring Boot. Implemented Java EE components using Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring transactions and Spring security modules.  ? Worked in Agile environment and participated in Agile Internal Coach Council.  ? Performed multiple functions like configuring jobs and pipelines using Jenkins, troubleshooting problems from build failures and test failures, as a part of CI/CD process  ? Used Jenkins Continuous Integration build server to perform Pull Requests and Dev environment builds.  ? Involved in development of different modules using Spring boot framework, Restful Web Services, JPA and integrate the modules.  ? Involve in fixing the bugs, which were reported by both testing team as well as Customer  ? Worked on Rest Web services for backend services, used Couchbase DB (NoSQL) for database services  ? Integrated subsystems using SOAP based Web services and Apache Axis2.  ? Involved in architecture, design, development of projects in AJAX based Java Script with Dojo toolkit and JSON API with JSP.  ? Wrote RESTful services on the server in NodeJS to listen to requests from devices.  ? Implemented Service oriented architecture (SOA) using RESTful web services.  ? Developed Web Services to create reports module and send it to different agencies and premium calculation for manual classes using SOAP and RESTful web services and rich faces components.  ? Designed and developed a RESTful hub application which resolved the Single-Sign-On authentication of the target secured REST services.  ? Used J2EE SOA based JAX-WS web services to develop reusable web service components.  ? Configured Hibernate-ORM to map java objects such as clients and claims with database tables.  ? Designed and developed UI screens using Struts 2, DOJO, JavaScript, JSP, HTML, DOM, CSS, and AJAX.  ? Involved in a project Development using Spring Web Flow and Hybris and developed front-end UI with JSF Richfaces,Backbone.js, JQuery, CSS3 Dojo and AJAX.  ? Implemented Micro services which contain the shared functionality that all business units inside the application may perform the same.  ? Implemented techniques to track the usage analytics api consumes the events happened in micro-services and when API is exposed through Platform Lib automatically it records each incoming request considering dependencies.  ? Validated web services manually and through automation.  ? Developed UI components for email and link sharing of documents and files for a Content Management System using BackBone.js and JQuery.  ? Developing a set of dashboards in Splunk 6 by leveraging Underscore, D3, Jquery/UI, Backbone, and Django.  ? Implemented Dojo and JQuery JavaScript frame work in UI Layer.  ? Developed business logic using session beans using IBM WebSphere Application Developer and deployed them using IBM WebSphere Application Server.  ? Used svn for version control and used IBM RAD 6.0 for implementing the application.  ? Implemented Spring MVC framework to develop and configure the views and controller of Spring MVC implemented database persistence and integrated the web application with the persistence layer.  ? Involved in developing and maintaining services-based architecture utilizing open source technologies like Hibernate ORM and spring MVC Framework.  Environment: Java, J2EE, JAXB, RESTful, CSS3, JSON, Node.js, AJAX,JQuery, React.js, Big Data, SparkSpark, YARN, HIVE, Pig, Scala, Python, Hadoop, Kibana, AWS, Dynamo DB, Kibana, Cloudera, EMR, JDBC, Redshift, NOSQL, Sqoop, MYSQL. Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Broadridge - Newark, NJ March 2016 to January 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Designed use cases for the Application as per the business requirements.  ? Participated in requirement gathering and framework implementation sessions through Agile TDD methodology.  ? Microservices using the Akka reactive framework, functional programming using Java and Scala, multi-threaded  ? Experienced developing against SOLR Search Platform APIs  ? Developed and deployed solution using several new technologies, including Linux - Ubuntu, Drupal and Apache SOLR.  ? Involved in complete Agile/SDLC - Requirement Analysis, Development, System and Integration Testing.  ? Involved in all the different stage of SDLC like requirement gathering, High level design, Low level design reviews, Coding, Code reviews and defect fixing etc.  ? Used client-side scripting languages such as Java Script and JQuery.  ? Implemented continuous integration & deployment (CICD) through Jenkins for Hadoop jobs  ? Experience in different Hadoop distributions like Cloudera (CDH3 & CDH4) and Horton Works Distributions (HDP) and MapR 2.  ? Reduced server build time over 80% through the use ofPowershell scripting, this included server settings, clustering, MS SQL and SAN configuration.  ? Implemented procedures for data storage management and modeling using Cloud base technologies.  ? Implemented continuous integration & deployment (CICD) through Jenkins for Hadoop jobs  ? Experience in different Hadoop distributions like Cloudera (CDH3 & CDH4) and Horton Works Distributions (HDP) and MapR 2.  ? Reduced server build time over 80% through the use ofPowershell scripting, this included server settings, clustering, MS SQL and SAN configuration.  ? Implemented procedures for data storage management and modeling using Cloud base technologies.  ? Developed and delivered SOAP based Web Servicesfor our new clients used Apache-CXF and SOAP UI to test the services.  ? Experience in performance tuning a Cassandra cluster to optimize writes and reads  ? Involved in the process of data modeling Cassandra Schema  ? Installed and Configured DataStax OpsCenter for Cassandra Cluster maintenance and alerts.  ? Assisted Development teams to migrate applications to Docker based PaaS platform using Kubernetes.  ? Experienced in defining Application Deployment Solution on Docker based PaaS environment and migrating applications to Kubernetes and Docker platform  ? Replicated database from Oracle12g to SQL Server 2016 (Snapshot replication and Transactional replication).  ? Developed the Application making use Java 8's new Streams API and parallel Streams to partition the streams.  ? Experienced in using Scala, Java and Python frameworks for Bigdata/Spark engine requirements.  ? Implementation of Struts - Configuration Files, Validation Files, Interceptors, Filters, Listeners for Modules.  ? Implemented continuous integration & deployment (CICD) through Jenkins for Hadoop jobs  ? Experience in creating Models, Controllers, Templates, Custom Directives, Components, Filters and Services in AngularJS.  ? Create and manage Spring Boot micro-services with REST endpoints.  ? Conducted Automation testing using the Standards,guidelines and structured methodology in testing the application.  ? Selected the appropriate AWS service based on compute, data, or security requirements  ? Used PL/SQL to create Packages, Functions, and Procedure.  ? Extensively used Core Java such as Exceptions, and Collections  ? Used JSTL and developed required tiles and tile definitions for templating and defined configuration in the struts configuration.xml.  ? Created reusable Angularjs html templates using custom templates.  ? Resolve Micros xStore issues, restore databases, re-image and replace devices  ? Processing data ingestion and entity resolution using Hadoop and Pig.  ? Applied HadoopMapReduce to reduce processing time from two weeks per year of data to one day.  ? Developed business layer using EJB stateless session beans and deployed on the Application server (Web logic).  ? Built restful web services using MongoDB/NodeJS and implemented the front-end using jQuery and AngularJS controllers, directives, and service.  ? Created Composite Applications, Home Security components and Adapters by using Oracle SOA technology.  ? Developed major websites and services by including Mongo DB as backend software.  ? Utilized Node.js to create a fast and efficient chat server.  ? Used StrutsTiles Framework for designing the layout of the application.  ? Designed dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery and JavaScript  ? Used Hibernate as persistence framework for DAO layer to access the Oracle10g database.  ? Worked on Eclipse for development and deployment of application in Web Logic Application Server.  ? Creating Angular Services using factory services to implement the business logic.  ? Responsible for coding, testing and documenting various packages, procedures, and functions for libraries.  ? Proficient in using SVN for Version Control.  ? Actively involved in code reviews and also in bug fixing.  Environment: Java, JSP, JavaScript, Ajax, JQuery, Ant, Elastic, Struts, Angular, POS, DOJO, Drools, Hbase, Solr, Marklogic, spring, MICROS, Kibana, Hibernate, RSA, WebSphere Application Server, DB2, Agile, XML, LDAP. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Mayo Clinic - Minneapolis, MN June 2014 to February 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in analysis, design and documentation of the application model.  ? Tuning of the SQL queries, which takes long time to process the request using Explain Plan, Hints to reduce the response time.  ? Implemented web crawling of store demographics, products, brands and categories using Python.  ? Architected an enterprise service bus using Mule, Java (EJB3), Hibernate, and Spring to tie back-end business logic/systems with web properties via a corresponding RESTful API.  ? Migrated the existing data to Hadoop from RDBMS for processing the data.  ? Involve in fixing the bugs, which were reported by both testing team as well as Customer  ? Involved in designing re-usable schemas and XML components using XML Spy, SOAP, XML, DTD, and XML Schemas for web and EAI services for system integration  ? Involved in developing Java/JEE based Enterprise Applications and Integration Layer.  ? Worked on Rest Web services as well as Node Rest framework for backend services, used Mongo DB (NoSQL) for database services  ? Developed GUI using Java Script, HTML/HTML5,CSS3 and JQuery in ongoing projects.  ? Design & Development of Presentation Layer using JSF MVC Architecture  ? Involved in functional phase to map the requirements and provided analysis and feedback on Design documents.  ? Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, HTML5  ? Created proof-of-concept using responsive web design, React JS and Node JS.  ? Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins and GitHub and AWS AMI's  ? Working experience with No SQL DB Mongo DB, Cassandra for offering commercial support and other services.  ? Developed major websites and services by including Mongo DB and cassandra as backend software.  ? Developed services and applications using Java with the Spring Framework (Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring Security, etc.) and Hibernate.  ? Back-end Java developer for Data Management Platform (DMP). Building RESTful APIs in front of different types of NoSQL storage engines allowing other groups to quickly meet their Big Data needs and remain insulated from rapid technology changes in the NoSQL field.  ? Used Node JS, React JS, Backbone framework for developing Single Page Application.  ? Applied design patterns including MVC Pattern, Factory Design Pattern and Singleton Design Pattern.  ? Used spring framework for Dependency Injection and integrated with Hibernate.  ? Experience with Python, Hadoop, Mongo DB.  ? Developed and Implemented new UI's using Angular JS and HTML  ? Developed Spring Configuration for dependency injection by using Spring IOC, Spring Controllers.  ? Experienced in Responsive Web Design technology with or without framework like Bootstrap.  ? Implementing Spring MVC and IOC methodologies.  ? Developed common reusable component libraries (CRUD Scaffolding) to be reused in different projects throughout the company's IT team using GWT, Sencha, Spring data, JPA.  ? Implemented application specific exception handling and logging frame work using Log4j  ? Involved in developing the component which provides the required information to Reporting system to generate the trend analysis reports for user attempts, success, user failures and system failures.  ? Involved in complete development of 'Agile Development Methodology/SCRUM' and tested the application in each iteration.  ? Involved in with xml, MVC, Backbone, svn Synfony2.  ? Improve the performance of the application by using the Performance Tuning and Time lines for each module of the Application. Based on Time lines decrease the page loads and increase the total performance of the application.  ? Implemented Core Java Methodologies like Interfaces, Collections, Customized Exceptions and Multi-Threading.  ? Designed and developed the process of synchronizing and Multi-Threading for each module of the application.  ? Experiences in Web Programming and User Interface Development having hand on experience on python, MySQL.  ? Programming experience in node.js, mongo db, java and MySQL.  ? Solved Production Support defects by using tool HP Tracing. Based on priority of the defect solve the all production support defects.  ? Used Subversion for activities tracking Version Controlling and Change Management that is tracking structure of folders, maintaining global revision number for the whole repository and Clear Case operations.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, CSS, Ajax, JQuery, XML, XSLT, Eclipse, Spring Web MVC, Hibernate, WebLogic, SOAP, JAXP, JAXB, Oracle, SQL , JUNIT. Sr. Java Developer BMO Harris Bank - Chicago, IL March 2012 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Development, enhancement and testing of the Web Methods flow services and Java services.  ? Experience in web applications creation with HTML5, Ajax, JQuery, Backbone.js, and CSS3.  ? Performed UNIX Shell scripting for the application.  ? Experience in development of JavaScript for client-side validations.  ? Designed/developed UI with AJAX, HTML, DHTML and JavaScript for interactive web pages.  ? Design the J2EE components of the Restful Web Services and scheduled Java batch jobs-based application in UML.  ? Created Web Services (SOAP) between different components and also exposed few web services to client apps get metadata for the specific entities and documents.  ? Worked on Java and JSON, to interact and get the data from csv files as we are prototyping the user Experience.  ? Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  ? Experience in build management with Ant Script  ? Developed the application using Struts Framework that leverages classical Model View Controller (MVC) architecture.  ? Front end design using HTML CSS Bootstrap.  ? Experience in using design patterns and UI frameworks such as MVC, Struts, Hibernate, NodeJS, and spring.  ? Strong knowledge in developing and designing web 2.0 application according to Information architecture and Usability standards using Ajax, JQuery, Backbone.js, XML, Symfony 2, CSS3 and MVC frameworks.  ? Implementation of the Business logic layer for Mongo DB Services.  ? Implemented the Animation and styling using CSS3 and JQuery.  ? Developed logging module-using Log4J to create log files to debug as well as trace application.  ? Developing data access layer using IBATIS -ORM and JDBC.  ? Involved in JUnit Testing, debugging, and bug fixing.  ? Used Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions and developed WAR framework to alert the client and production support in case of application failures.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, HTML, DHTML, Bootstrap, JavaScript, CSS, AJAX, JQuery, XML, XSLT, Eclipse, Spring Web MVC, Hibernate 4.0, WebLogic 10.3, WSDL, SOAP, JAXP, JAXB, Oracle 11g, SQL, HP Quality Center, JUNIT, Ant. Java Developer Comerica - Dallas, TX September 2010 to February 2012 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  ? Developed a prototype of the application and demonstrated to business users to verify the application functionality.  ? Developing front end of application using HTML, CSS, backbone.js, javascript, jQuery.  ? Design, develop and implement MVC Pattern based Keyword Driven automation testing framework utilizing Java, JUnit and Selenium WebDriver.  ? Used automated scripts and performed functionality testing during the various phases of the application development using Selenium.  ? Used Angular js framework where data from backend is stored in model and populated it to UI.  ? Prepared user documentation with screenshots for UAT (User Acceptance testing).  Environment: Java, Javascript, HTML, CSS, Xpath, Selenium Webdriver, Eclipse, JUnit, Jmeter, Jira, Windows, Mac OSX, Oracle 10g, Agile Methodology.  ? Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural Pattern using Struts Framework including JSP, Servlets, EJB, Form Bean and Action classes.  ? Hands on experience with MVC Javascript frameworks such as Backbone.js, Angular.js and Node.js.  ? Implemented server-side tasks using Servlets and XML.  ? Helped developed page templates using Struts Tiles framework.  ? Implemented Struts Validation Framework for Server-side validation.  ? Developed JSP's with Custom Tag Libraries for control of the business processes in the middle-tier and was involved in their integration.  ? Implemented Struts Action classes using Struts controller component.  ? Developed Web services (SOAP) through WSDL in Apache Axis to interact with other components.  ? Implemented Java/J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate and Data Transfer Object (DTO), Data Access Object and Service Locator.  ? Interact with clients to understand their needs and propose design to the team to implement the requirement.  ? Built Angular js framework including MVC architectures, different modules, specific controllers' templates, custom directives and custom filters.  Environment: Java1.5, JSP, JDBC, Spring Core 2.0, Angular js, Struts 1.2, Hibernate 3.0, Design Patterns, XML, Oracle, PL/SQL Developer, Web services, SOAP, XSLT, Jira. Education B.Tech in CS in CS University of Dhaka 2007 Skills JAVA (8 years), HIBERNATE (8 years), jQuery (8 years), JSP (8 years), HTML (8 years), React, Angular, Javascript, Node, PHP Additional Information Technical Skills:    Java/J2EE Technologies: JDBC, JavaScript, JSP, Servlets, JQuery  Languages: Java, J2EE, PL/SQL, Pig Latin, HQL, R, Python, XPath, Spark  Frameworks: MVC Struts, spring, Hibernate.  Databases: Oracle 12c/11g/10g/9i, Microsoft Access, MS SQL  No SQL Databases: Cassandra, mongo DB, Kibana  Web Technologies: HTML, DHTML, XML, XHTML, JavaScript, CSS, XSLT, EME AWS.  Web/Application servers: Apache Tomcat6.0/7.0/8.0, JBoss  Operating Systems: UNIX, Ubuntu Linux and Windows, Centos, Sun Solaris.  Network protocols: TCP/IP fundamentals, LAN and WAN.  Methodologies: Agile, Scrum, RUP, TDD, OOAD, SDLC, Extreme Programming, Test-Driven Development and Scrum. Certified ScrumMaster  Hadoop/Big Data: MapReduce, HDFS, Hive, Pig, HBase, Zookeeper, Sqoop, Oozie, Flume, Scala, Akka, Kafka, Storm, MONGODB.  Appian Applications: Appian (mobile, plug-in, Reporting functions).  Automation Tools: Selenium RC, Selenium Webdriver, Selenium Grid, Selenium IDE and AutoIT.