Full Stack Java J2EE Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java J2EE Developer Washington, DC • Having 7+ years of experience working in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), which includes User Interaction, Business Analysis, Design/Architecture, Implementation and Deployment of Enterprise and Web based applications using Java, J2EE technologies.  • Strong application development practice in using Modern Software Development methodologies like Agile and Traditional software models like Waterfall.  • Experience in developing static web pages using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap and responsive web design using JavaScript, jQuery, Angular, React JS.  • Developed the application using Java 8 features like Streams, Lambdas Expressions, Functional Interfaces, map and foreach functions.  • Used Spring MVC framework at the Web tier level to isolate each layer of the application so that complexity of integration will be reduced, and maintenance will be very easy.  • Worked on conversion of monolithic web application to Micro Services architecture.  • Handled operations and maintenance support for AWS cloud resources which includes launching, maintaining and troubleshooting EC2 instances, S3 buckets and Relational Database Services (RDS).  • Proficient in implementing applications using Spring framework (Spring MVC, Spring Dependency Injection, Spring Boot, Spring Data) and ORM frameworks like Hibernate.  • Proficient in developing Restful Web Services using Jackson and Jersey.  • Strong work experience in application integration and communicating using SOA, Web Services such as JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI AND XML over HTTP, Apache CXF, JAX-B, XSD, Axis 2.  • Good knowledge in field of Data Structures, Algorithms and various design patterns.  • Experience in implementing Design Patterns like Singleton, Factory, MVC, Composite, Prototype and Facade.  • Proficient in core java concepts like Collections, Multi-threading, Generics, Serialization, Threads, JavaBeans, Files and Externalization.  • Extensive experience working with RDBMS such as MySQL, Oracle and PostgreSQL.  • Experience in working with the NoSQL Database MongoDB to manage extremely large data sets.  • Expertise in Creating Hibernate configuration file, Hibernate Mapping files and defined persistence classes to persist the data into Oracle Database.  • Secured the API's by implementing OAuth2 token-based authentication/authorization scheme using Spring Security.  • Experience on different IDEs such as Eclipse, IntelliJ and Spring Tool Suite (STS) and deployment using Application Servers like Apache Tomcat, WebLogic, WebSphere and JBOSS.  • Actively involved in setup automated Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Development (CD) through Jenkins for the application.  • Experience in working with version control systems like GIT, GitHub and Bit Bucket.  • Hands on experience in build tools like ANT, Maven & Gradle.  • Able to manage project through JIRA for tracking stories in a Project and prioritize the tasks in the backlog by following best Agile practices via backlog grooming sessions and retrospectives.  • Proficient in Unit Testing with JUnit, Mockito frameworks and Log4j for logging purpose.  • Excellent written and verbal communication skills, Analytical, Problem Solving skills, strict attention to detail and ability to work independently, work within a team environment.    TECHNICAL SKILLS SET:    Languages: C, C++, Java1.8, J2EE and PL/SQL  Mark-up/XML Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, AngularJS, AJAX, JSON, XML, XSD, XSL/XSLT and React Redux  Tools & Framework: Struts, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring Boot, Spring Security, Spring Data, JSF, Junit, SOAP UI.  J2SE/J2EE Technologies: Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JMS, Java Beans, JNDI, JSTL, JSF, Struts, EJB.  Development Tools: Eclipse, RAD, Spring Tool Suite STS, IntelliJ.  Databases: MySQL, SQL Server, IBM DB2, Oracle, MongoDB.  Testing Tools/ Others: JUnit, Soap UI, Log4j, JIRA  Version Control: Tortoise SVN, GIT, Clear case.  Build Automation: ANT, Jenkins, Maven.  OS & Environment: Windows, UNIX, LINUX.  Cloud Technologies: AWS EC2, S3, Docker. Work Experience Full Stack Java J2EE Developer U.S Census Bureau - Washington, DC October 2018 to May 2019 U.S Census Bureau is the federal government's arm of Department of Commerce and handles all the census data related projects, U.S Geography, area land/water and other census statistics.    Responsibilities:  • Extensively involved in business requirements gathering and technical discussions.  • Implemented the application modules using Spring Core, Spring Security, Spring AOP, Spring MVC in order to develop the application.  • Designed and developed Spring Boot application modules and services.  • Implemented Spring Services and business operations using Dependency Injection.  • Used Spring JDBC to perform data base activities and transactions management.  • Involved in the configuration of Spring Framework modules using Spring Boot.  • Used different design patterns for building scalable, robust application modules.  • Used HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, Node.JS and JSON and bootstrap for developing responsive single page applications.  • Developed single page responsive design application using Angular JS.  • Used and implemented Angular JS Directives, Filters, Controllers, Services and Expressions for developing client-side widgets, validations and client-side business logic using java script.  • Developed reusable custom Directives, Services for Angular JS.  • Implemented Unit test cases on filters, Directives, Services and other Angular components.  • Designed and Developed RESTful API and accessed using Node.JS components.  • Followed RIA best practices while design and developing the Angular components and services.  • Followed best practices and principles while designing single page Angular JS application.  • Implemented jQuery and AJAX calls to retrieve JSON data from the data base on the fly via Rest API.  • Developed Rest Controllers to interact with Ajax calls and Spring services.  • Used JMS for developing messaging services to interact with different application modules.  • Implemented Restful web services to perform simple business operations.  • Used Oracle Server as backend data base systems.  • Designed and created data base tables, constraints as per the application requirements.  • Implemented SQL injection security checks, html sanitization and other security mechanisms.  • Involved in performance tuning, query optimization, maintaining coding standards and resolving JVM memory leakages and Garbage Collections.  • Followed Agile development methodology while developing the application.  • Used JIRA and Crucible for creating change tickets and handling production bugs and development tasks.  • Implemented integration test cases using Cucumber/gherkin framework.  • Developed Cucumber test cases using Feature, Scenario and Steps format.  • Prepared and developed acceptance test case scenarios in the application.  • Used and worked on JMeter for performance testing and load testing.  • Worked in AWS Cloud development environment and worked on EC2, S3, Cloud Watch, Elastic Beanstalk.  • Implemented auto deployment scripts, instance creation and destroy scripts and CICD pipeline in AWS.  • Used Jenkin jobs for building and deploying(CI/CD) the application into app server.  • Involved in DevOps to configure Maven, GitHub and AWS to build and deploy pipeline in Jenkins.    Environment: Java 8, J2ee, JSP, Servlets, HTML5, AJAX, Spring, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Web Services, SOAP, REST, SQL, PL/SQL, jQuery, Angular JS, Grunt, NPM, Node.js, JSON, Bootstrap, XML, XSD, JAXB, JavaScript¸ Web Sphere 8.x, Maven, GIT, DevOps, SQL Developer, Oracle, Sonar, Crucible, Cloud, AWS, EC2, S3, Cloud Watch, UML, JUnit, Cucumber, Mockito, JMeter, JIRA, Jenkins, Log4j Full Stack Java Developer BluePearl Veterinary Partners - Tampa, FL January 2017 to September 2018 Our project was focused on adding new functionalities and redesigning the user interface to improve performance and better user interface of their Internal Client and Pet Service Management System.    Responsibilities:  • Used Agile Scrum methodology including daily scrum, one-month sprint.  • Design the project based on Spring MVC framework and connected to Oracle 11g database by usingJava Persistence API(JPA) in development environment.  • Used DAO and SQL to query and update the date in database.  • Designed and developed RESTful service interface using Spring Boot to build robust customer event API.  • Tested by using Postman in JSON data format.  • Implemented Core Java features like exception handling, Collection Framework, I/O, Generics, andMultithreading methodology.  • Implemented Java 8 with new features like Lambda Expression and Stream.  • Used Spring Security for login authentication and authorization.  • Implemented JavaMail to send confirmation emai.  • Used Java Message Service with ActiveMQ to handler data transfer between server.  • Used Junit and Mockito for unit testing.  • Built responsive Single Page Application based on Angular4+ framework and TypeScript.  • Implement RxJS and WebSocket to do real-time server pushing.  • Used HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, and Angular Material UI framework for Application page.  • Used SCSS to simplify CSS with predefined Variables.  • Built reactive forms and template driven forms, with form validation for user login, register, etc.  • Used sessionStorage for user credentials storage, and localStorage for temporary data saving.  • Used Bootstrap and Angular UI Bootstrap for creating rich, Responsive UI Screens for varying screen sizes and devices.  • Used Jira as process and bug tracking tool, and do Version Control by Git  • Deployed Docker containers for smicroservices, increasing scalability, and optimizing speed.  • Implemented monitoring and alerting of application and corporate servers Elastic Compute Cloud(EC2), Simple Storage Service (S3) buckets in Amazon Web Service (AWS).    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, TypeScript, jQuery, Angular, Java, Spring MVC, Junit, JavaMail, WebSocket, ActiveMQ, Jira, Git, AWS Senior Java Developer Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance, Milwaukee, W November 2015 to December 2016 Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance is a leading global provider of insurance, annuities and employee benefit programs. Through its subsidiaries and affiliates, Northwestern mutual life insurance holds leading market. SSUI & CERT SYSTEM offer a full range of insurance and other financial product service details.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the complete SDLC including design of System Architecture, development of System Use Cases based on the functional requirements.  • Involved in Daily Scrum (Agile) meetings, Sprint planning and estimation of the tasks for the user stories, participated in retrospective and presenting Demo at end of the sprint.  • Designed and coded controller classes using J2SE that would talk to real hardware controller to access their states and gave the user control over the hardware through the multithreaded UI.  • Used HTML5, CSS3, jQuery and JavaScript to construct the dynamic web pages (presentation Layer) for the application.  • Designed and developed application using Spring Framework modules like Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring boot and handled security using Spring Security OAuth.  • Parsed the data to project to client and handled the security and Authorization using Spring Security.  • Spring MVC model integration for front-end request action controller and Spring AOP for logging purposes.  • Used Spring IOC for dependency injection and developed controllers for handling Http requests and providing Http response.  • Implemented RESTful web services using JAX-RS and Jersey as provider.  • Implemented Service Oriented Architecture by SOAP based Web Services with JAX-WS and WSDL.  • Worked on XML and JSON for transferring and retrieving data between different applications.  • Involved in using JPA ( Java Persistence API) frameworks and API's as JDO and Hibernate.  • Developed the DAO layer for the application using Spring Integration and Hibernate template support.  • Established connection to Oracle database with Spring Integration, Hibernate and created POJOs for mapping with the database tables.  • Used Maven as build automation tool and deployments are on Web Sphere Application Server.  • Worked with Apache Kafka as a messaging service for activity tracking of an application.  • Worked on DAO's to pull the data from the source Databases and converted into JSON formats and then published into Kafka Streams.  • Jenkins for Continuous Integration and Spring Tool Suite (STS) IDE for application development.  • Developed test cases for Unit Testing, Integration Testing with JUnit.  • Worked on Log4j for logging errors, messages and performance logs.  • Retrieving code from the repository and deploying in Production using ANT.    Environment: Java, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, jQuery, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring Security, Hibernate, JDBC, REST, SOAP, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, WSDL, JAX-RS, Jenkins, MySQL, Kafka, Service Oriented Architecture, Oracle, Unit Testing, JUnit, Log4j, Maven, Web Sphere Application Server, Jenkins and Spring Tool Suite (STS). Java Developer Udyog Software June 2013 to April 2015 Udyog software is a pioneer in providing tax automation products, solutions for both direct and indirect taxes. The application developed offers various computation & filing services for account payable, account receivable and payroll transactions and is a preferred tax solution partner for various ERP vendors and implementers.    Responsibilities:  • Developed the application based on MVC architecture.  • Captured all the functional and technical requirements of the Supply Chain Management System.  • Adapted Java Design Patterns DAO, Value Objects and Session Facade to develop business components.  • Development of GUI for HTML and JSP Versions. Java Servlets were used as the common gateway interface between the client and server.  • Used cascading style sheet (CSS) in web pages to separate presentation from structure.  • Java Beans were used to handle business logic as a Model and Servlets to control the flow of application as Controller.  • Established connection with JDBC to persist data to My SQL database.  • Involved in collecting requirements from Business Users and Data Modeling and designing and developing Tools using Java, Servlets, EJB, and JSP.  • Front end validations are written using JavaScript.  • Performed Unit Testing using JUnit.  • Provided a User Manual and User Training on the new system to ease them into the new system.    Environment: Java, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, JDBC, JSP, Servlets, DAO, My SQL, Junit, EJB. Jr. Java Developer Techno Soft Solutions May 2012 to May 2013 Techno soft provides a range of professional services delivered by experts with operational experience building and running the largest E-Mail, messaging, and Internet networks. These services range from architecture and design of software solutions, website design & development to deployment services and operational support.    Responsibilities:  • Worked in a Waterfall environment and participated throughout the SDLC process.  • Implemented Struts MVC Design pattern for the Application for the front-end appearance.  • Developed applications using Application Lifecycle Management to deliver reliable applications.  • Developed the view-controller components using Servlet/JSPs, JavaScript, CSS and HTML.  • Involved in creating JSP pages for presentation of the data to the end user.  • Wrote SQL for JDBC statements to retrieve the data from database.  • Developed and deployed the Application on Apache Tomcat Server using ANT script.  • Implementing Log4j for logging, debugging, fixing problems and Prepared JUnit test cases.  • Developed the whole project on Eclipse IDE.  • Responsible for code sanity in integration stream used Clear Case as version control tool.  • Involved in bug fixing during the System testing, Joint System testing and User acceptance testing.    Environment: Java, HTML, CSS, JSP, Servlet, EJB, Struts MVC, SQL, JDBC, Apache Tomcat Server, ANT, SDLC, JUnit, Java Script, Log4j, Clear Case, Eclipse. Education Master's in Information Technologies in Information Technologies Valparaiso University 2016