Sr. Full Stack Java Developer Sr. Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Full Stack Java Developer - Time Warner Cable Broomfield, CO • Software Developer with strong experience of 7+ Years in designing, developing and maintaining the web based and the business applications using Java, J2EE, Weblogic Portal, Websphere, Oracle Technologies and proficient in all aspects of system architecture, including designing and implementing large, scalable, distributed systems.  • Expertise in MVC Architecture using Jakarta Struts 1.3/2.0 with features like the Validation Framework, Tiles Framework, and Internationalization.  • Experience with IBM WebSphere, JBOSS and Apache Tomcat Application Server.]  • Strong experience with Application Servers - Weblogic, WebSphere, JBoss, Apache Tomcat, Java Web Server, CMS - Joomla, Drupal and FileNet. Workflow tools - Lombardi, jBPM, WebSphere Integration Server, Database - Oracle, Sybase, SQL Server, DB2. Datastores - Cassandra and Caching.  • Expert knowledge of OO concepts, design of real time applications using Java, Rogue Wave library and UML tools like Rational Rose, TogetherJ. Build Tools - Ant, and Maven. Continuous Integration - CruiseControl, Jenkins, TeamCity. UDeploy. Source control - Subversion, CVS, Perforce.  • RIA applications using Flex, HTML5, CSS, Ajax, Dojo and NodeJS.  • Expertise in open source frameworks like Struts 2.0, Spring 2.5 (IOC, JDBC, AOP, and LDAP), Webservices, Hibernate 3.0, JAXB, AXIS-2, JAAS ( Java Authorization and Authentication System), JUNIT etc.  • Experienced in Object-Oriented analysis and design, with J2EEdesign patterns including Singleton, Factory, Prototype, Session Façade, Data Access Object, DAO, Service Locator, Data Transfer Object, Business Delegate.  • In depth experience with PL/SQl, T-SQL DB development, Design Patterns, Agile- Scrum, XP, TDD (Test driven).  • Experience in writing test-cases in Java environment using JUnit.  • Experienced in the MVC Architecture using Struts & Spring Frameworks. JMS, JNDI and Hibernate.  • Knowledge and experience in XML and XML parsers, SOAP-based web services, RESTful Web Services, UML.  • Expertise in Object Oriented Methodologies (OOAD), Aspect Oriented Programming (AOP), SOA, Java2 (JDK1.7), J2EE Design Patterns, Data Modelling and UML based system design.  • Excellent working experience with various framework like MVC, Struts  • Good Knowledge of UML and Together Soft/ Visio tools.  • Good Experience in Implementing J2EE Design Patterns.  • Experienced in using IDEs such as Eclipse, My Eclipse, IntelliJ, and Net Beans.  • Experienced in developing the multi-tier Client-Server and Distributed Object Systems and Object Oriented Technologies in an Internet/Intranet Environment  • Expert in the conversion of legacy information systems to distributed and web-based architectures.  • Always worked closely with system users and management personnel and gained reputation of loyalty, quick problem solving, and excellent teamwork and communication skills.  • Ability to learn and use new systems and paradigms in considerably less time, solid communicator with exceptional team-building skills.  • Experience in mentoring, leading, planning and execution of client projects, liaison with business and IT management.  • Excellent analytical capabilities and good communication skills. Ability to quickly adapt to new environments and learn new technologies. Work Experience Sr. Full Stack Java Developer Time Warner Cable - Broomfield, CO January 2016 to Present Project Description: Hosted Navigation (HNav) program, in the Embedded Application project for IP set-top boxes. The HNav program is a broad effort by TWC to revamp and improve the set-top box user-experience for their customers. The program encompasses all set-top box features including Electronic Program Guide (EPG), Digital Video Recording (DVR), Home-Networking (HN) and streaming of live video from the set-top box to client devices such as iPads. The Embedded Application enables the HNav program to be implemented for different set-top box hardware platforms by abstracting away their underlying differences  Responsibilities:  • Worked in an Agile Environment and participated in requirement gathering, analysis and design  • Implemented Business Delegate, Design, Facade, Service locator, Singleton, Factory method, Template method, Observer, Data Access Objects, Transfer Objects JEE design patterns.  • Implemented the service layer based on a Spring container and exploited Spring'sIOC features for bean management.  • Implemented the persistence layer using Hibernate-ORM. Worked on Spring Web Flow on Spring MVC for building flows in our web application.  • Implemented jQuery based accordion styles and handled complete jQuery in showing Rich Internet Application.  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery AJAX and JSON.  • Developed various UI(User Interface) components using Struts(MVC), JSP, and HTML.  • Developed application on spring 3.x framework by utilizing its features like Spring Dependency injection, Spring Security, Spring Web flow with Spring MVC. Used spring's dependency injection for injecting entity manager and managed beans into spring beans.  • Working extensively with Hibernate Query Language (HQL) to store and retrieve the data from oracle database. Developed Enterprise JavaBeans (EJB 3.0) for implementing application's business rules and policies.  • Familiarity with Service oriented architecture (SOA) by developing and consuming Restful web services based on JAX-RS and Jersey. Coded JSP pages and used JavaScript for client side validations and to achieve other client-side event handling.  • Designed the user interface of the application using HTML5, CSS3, Java Server Faces 2.0 (JSF 2.0), JSP, JSTL, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node JS, and AJAX. Coded in AngularJS MVC Framework to make single page app (spa) and complex price configurations pages.  • Used Spring Security framework for login authentication, password hashing. Worked on Java Message Service (JMS) API for developing message oriented middleware (MOM) layer for handling various asynchronous requests. Worked with topic for creating publish/subscribe-messaging model.  • Used D3.js and Angular to construct data visualization. Developed persistence layer based on JPA framework for providing POJO persistence model for object-relational mapping.  • Used Concurrent Version System (CVS) as source control tool. Developed unit test cases and suits on Junit framework for unit testing. Used Maven for building, deploying application, creating JPA based entity objects and compiling GWT application.  • UsedXML parser API'slike JAXB API within the web service for marshalling/unmarshalling.  • Used Business Process and Decision Management Design using JBoss JBPM and JBoss Drools Rules Engine.  • Developed the web applications even under pressure when time line occurs.  • Involved in designing and development of web interface using JSP, Servlets, and JavaScript.  • Tested each and every application with using validators and handled multiple modules simultaneously to achieve the application.  Environment: Spring 3.1, J2EE 1.7, Spring JDBC Templet, Spring Batch, AJAX, XML, CSS, CSS 3, HTML 5, JavaScript, Oracle 10g/11i, Maven 3.0.3, , MYSQL 6.1, JQuery, JUnit, REST, AngularJS.STS 3.5.1(eclipse), Core Java, JSP's, Action Components, Tomcat Web Server. Sr. FullStack Java Developer Comcast Corporation - Herndon, VA April 2014 to December 2015 Project Description: Developing new voice and video features that allow customers to connect with family and friends inside and outside of the XFINITY network more easily and personally through their smartphones, tablets and TVs.  Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile methodology and involved in daily SCRUM meetings, sprint planning, showcases and retrospective and used JIRA as a tracking tool for the sprints.  • Designed the front-end screens using AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap and Spring Boot.  • Developed Angular controllers, services, filters and developed HTML templates with various Angular directives such as ng-app, ng-controller, ng-repeat, ng-if, ng-show, ng-hide, ng-change, ng-blur etc..  • Developed Grid's used in the system using Slickgrid and created custom grid directive to make the component reusable.  • Used various Angular UI Bootstrap components such as calendars, masks, uploaders, sliders, alerts, modal dialogs etc.for developing the UI.  • Took part in setting up the routing configuration using Angular UI router for various views and sub views.  • Configured Gulp to perform various UI build and test related tasks and used NodeJS NPM and Bower to manage the dependencies.  • Developed Angular services making use of resource service to perform REST API calls to the backend.  • Developed unit test cases using Jasmine and Karma and performed end to end tesing using Protractor and Selenium  • Developed REST controllers using Spring Data REST to serve the UI with required JSON data.  • Developed REST exception handling controller advices to respond to bad requests and server side exceptions.  • Used complete annotation driven approach to develop the application using Spring Boot and was also involved in setting up the Spring bean profiling.  • Consumed SOAP/ JAX-WS based web services using Spring framework and used SOAP UI for testing these services.  • Used REST Client and POSTMAN to test the rest based services and used Junit and Mockito to test the middleware services.  • Worked with Middleware using Message driven by POJO (MDP) after creating QCF, Queue on WebSphere server, and using JMS template for asynchronous functionality for multiple users.  • Used Hibernate in the persistence layer and implemented DAO's to access data from database.  • Used Node.js to run Grunt tasks and build properly the project (compile, minify, concat etc.) and Implement modules into Node JS to integrate with designs and requirements. Used GruntJS, BowerJS, Express from NodeJS.  • Involved in enhancing existing MEAN (MongoDB, Express, Angular and Node) stack applications and provided the required support.  • Build REST web service by building Node.js Server in the back-end to handle requests sent from the front end jQuery Ajax calls.  • Made the integration of data in several applications in favor JSON documents with dynamic schemas using MongoDB (NOSQL) database.  • Created various MongoDB collections and wrote services to store and retrieve user data from for the application on devices and used Mongoose API in order to access the MongoDB from NodeJS.  • Used GIT as version control system, to keep track of all the work & all changes, allowing several developers to collaborate and used Maven as build and configuration tool and Jenkins for continuous integration tool.    • Involved in configuration and usage of Apache Log4J for logging and debugging purposes. Used RAD as IDE tool to develop the application.  • Prepared Documentation for Unit Test Plan and Unit Test Results for the QA purpose. Participated in the release night shakeouts/over night deliveries and QA Support.  • Used Veracode for application security scanning and remediated the flaws that were identified in the code.  • Took part in setting up the application with Jenkins and AWS and is involved in builds and deployments to Tomcat server.    Environment: Java 7, STS, Tomcat 7, Gulp, Spring Tool Suite, Spring, Spring Boot, Hibernate, MongoDB, RESTful Web Service, Oracle, HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, AngularJS, Node Js, Express, JavaScript, GIT, JMS, Jenkins, Agile, JIRA tool, Selenium, Log4j, Maven, AWS. Java/J2EE Developer CaterpillarMossville, IL January 2013 to March 2014 Project Description: Assembly Quality Events is a Caterpillar-developed, web-based application used primarily in the assembly/machining operations of a shop floor. The software enables shop floor and associated support personnel to record and analyze assembly/machining quality events that occur during the assembly process.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in designing use cases with the help of business analyst team and developed technical requirement documents. Helped the client project management team to identify the suitable technology and tools required for the projects.  • Implemented J2EE Design Patterns like MVC, Service Locator, Session Facade and the persistence layer using Hibernate-ORM.  • Developed Web Services to consume those Web Services as well other enterprise wide Web Services.  • Developed several REST web services supporting both XML and JSON to perform tasks. REST web services leveraged by both web and mobile applications.Prepared technical artifacts including UML Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams etc., using Rational Rose.  • Developed the UI Screensusing JSP, Struts, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and did the client side validation with the JavaScript.  • Designed User Interface usingJava Server Faces (JSF), HTML, CSS3, jQuery and AngularJS and XML in a responsive grid layout.  • Designed and developed the UI layer using JAVA 1.5, JSP1.1 and Struts2.  • Used Spring Framework for developing the application and used JDBC to map to Oracle database.  • Used AngularJS for the two way data-binding allowing auto synchronization of models and views  • Use of SOAP UI to verify the WSDL end point URL.  • Used Connection Pooling to get JDBC connection and access database procedures.  • Extensive use of Collection Framework features like Map, Object, List to retrieve the data from Web Service, manipulate the data to incorporate Business Logic and save the data to Oracle database.  • Used Multithreading to simultaneously process tables as and when a specific user data is completed in one table.  • Wrote various SQL, PL/SQL queries and stored procedures for data retrieval.  • Wrote UNIX Shell scripts and used UNIX environment to deploy the EAR and read the logs and JavaScript was used for the client side validations.  • Used JBOSS and Tomcat for application deployment and stage testing and Created Junit test cases to test the codes and validate the release.  • Junit, log4j were used for unit testing and as logging frameworks.  • Involved in high level meetings for crucial decisions and handled tickets to resolve issues.  • Involved in putting proper review processes and documentation for functionality development.  • Involved in code reviews, test case reviews and bug fixing using Jira tracking systems.  • Providing support and guidance for Production and Implementation Issues.    Environment: JBoss Server, MVC, UNIX, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, EJB, Hibernate 3.0, AJAX, XML, CSS 3, HTML, JSON, REST, SOAP UI, Spring 3, JavaScript, Oracle 10g/11i, JQuery, JUnit, AngularJS, Junit, Struts 1.2.8, Framework, Core Java, JSP's, Action Components, , Tom Cat Web Server. Java/J2EE Developer Black Berry - Bellevue, WA December 2010 to December 2012 Project Description: The current goal of the BES-NG project is to deliver an on premise MDM product that will replace BDS and UDS deployments, and will also support Fusion-Studio like integration with Doral (BES 5.0.4) BES deployments, so that a customer's devices can all be managed from a single BES-NG based Mobile Fusion deployment. This goal will be met by packaging a single technology base that can support the future deployment of a cloud and hosted MDM solution in a form that can be deployed on premise by Enterprise customers.  Responsibilities:  • Designs and develops application and user interface by setting expectations and features priorities throughout development life cycle within HM Health Solutions established framework.  • Involved in developing the application using Java/J2EE platform. Implemented the Model View Control (MVC) structure using Struts. Used JQuery for the development of web application using AngularJs, Ajax, DHTML and DOM scripting.  • Responsible to enhance the UI using HTML, Java Script, XML, JSP, CSS as per the requirements and providing the client side using JQuery validations.  • Developed Web services (JAX-WS) specification using Apache CXF as the implementation and developed client application API's using Node Js.  • Used Grid functionality like Gridfiltering, Multiple Sorting, Grid Cell Editing, Grid Row Editing.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection and used Apache Camel to integrate Spring framework.  • Used Hibernate as Persistence framework mapping the ORM objects to table using Hibernate annotations.  • Responsible to write the different service classes and utility API, which will be used across the framework.  • Used Hibernate Transaction Management, Hibernate Batch Transactions, and Hibernate cache concepts.  • Used Axis to implementing Web Services for integration of different systems.  • Exposed various capabilities as Web Services using SOAP/WSDL.  • Used SOAP UI for testing the Web services by sending an SOAP request.  • Configured EC2 instance and Route53 for DNS hosting on AWS for dev environment and Used AJAX framework for server communication and seamless user experience.  • Designed and developed customized ESB to integrate and govern SOA services. Built various capabilities in ESB like Security, Message routing, message transformation, transaction management etc.  • Worked on Proof of Concept for developing application using Node Js and Mongo DB.  • Used Require Js to improve speed and quality of the code and Log4j for the logging the output to the files.  • Used Junit unit testing, Selenium for UI testing and Fitnesse for Integration testing.    Environment: JDK 1.8, Spring(DI, MVC, Transaction Management, AOP) JSP, JSP-EL, JSTL, Servlets, AWS, Oracle SOA, TOAD, HTML, CSS, XML, Angular JS, Cassandra, TOAD, SVN, Node JS, ESB, SOAP, REST,  JAX-RS, Require JS, Log4J, Adobe Dreamweaver, Log4J, Sun Jersey, Quality Center, AJAX, Fitnesse, Hibernate. Java/J2EE Developer Tera Soft - Hyderabad, Telangana December 2009 to September 2010 Responsibilities:  • Developed the business domain layer using Java, J2EE, JDBC and used DAO, Transfer Objects, Singleton, Abstract Factory, Factory, State, Command and Front Controller design patterns.  • Implemented Struts framework in the presentation tier for all the essential control flow, business level validations and for communicating with the business layer.  • Developed Struts framework Action Servlets classes for Controller and developed Form Beans for transferring data between Action class and the View Layer.  • Developed the front end UI using JSP, HTML, JavaScript, CSS.  • Implemented Struts Validators framework to validate the data.  • Developed Ant(build.xml) targets for build and deployments on WebSphereApplicationServer 5.0.  • Developed Stored Procedures in the Oracle 9i database.  • Performed impact analysis on the dependency projects of OneSource Project.  • Involved in writing unit test plans and developing test cases using Junit.  • Used Configuration Management and Version Control toolCVS.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Eclipse, Windows NT 4.0, UNIX, My Eclipse IDE, JSP/Servlets, JQuery, Apache, Tomcat, JDBC, XML, XSLT, XSD, SAX, JAXP, HTML, Oracle8, UNIX. Education Bachelor's Skills HTML (7 years), JAVA (7 years), jQuery (7 years), ORACLE (7 years), AJAX (6 years), Spring 3.1,J2EE 1.7, Spring JDBC Templet, Spring Batch, AJAX, XML, CSS, CSS 3, HTML 5, JavaScript, Oracle 10g/11i, Maven 3.0.3, , MYSQL 6.1, JQuery, JUnit, REST, AngularJS.STS 3.5.1(eclipse), Core Java, JSP's, Action Components, Tomcat Web Server. Additional Information SKILLS    Ajax (7 years), HTML (8 years), Java (8 years), JQuery (8 years), Oracle (8 years)    Technical Skills:    Languages Java/ J2EE, C, C++, HTML, DHTML, SQL. Operating system Windows, Unix.  Java Technologies Core Java, JDBC, Hibernate, JSF, XML Parsers, JSP, Servlets, Portals, EJB, JMS, Java Swing, JavaBeans, Web Services,  Frame Works Struts 1.x/2.x, Hibernate 3.x, Spring 2.5/3.0, Groovy on Rails 2.x XML Technologies XML, SAX, DOM, XSL, XSLT, XPath, WSDL, SOAP, Rest Web Technologies HTML, CSS, Java Script, AJAX, JQuery and Angular JS Servers IBM Web Sphere 6.x/5.x, Apache  Tomcat 5.x/6.x, JBOSS 4.x/3.x  RDBMS Oracle, MS SQL Server, MySQL.  Tools Eclipse,WSAD,RAD, CVS, JBuilder, JDeveloper, Ant, Maven Concepts UML, Design Patterns.