Noridian Administrative Services Noridian Administrative Services Java/Front End Developer Des Moines, IA • Around 4 years of overall IT experience in software development and maintenance.  • 3 years of experience in software development in Core Java and J2EE, Javascript, CSS, AngularJS.  • Experience in web design technologies, such as JSP, Servlets, HTML 5, JavaScript, AngularJS, ReactJS, CSS and JDBC.  • 2 years of experience in doing minor enhancements and bug fixes to legacy applications-built COBOL, JCL and VSAM Files, DB2 for Batch Application written in Mainframe System.  • Sound experience in working with Object Oriented design, MVC Architecture, Spring and successful implementation of the same.  • Solid understanding of Object-Oriented Programming (OOP) concepts. Familiar with Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Experience in Core Java concepts.  • Extensive working experience in Healthcare Domain.  • Experience in Java IDE Eclipse.  • Experience in various databases, such as Oracle, MS SQL Server 2008 and MySQ L 5.5.  • Experience in writing moderately complex queries using SQL.  • Ability to perform at a high level, meet deadlines with quality delivery, adaptable to ever changing priorities.  • Have great motivation to learn new skills/technologies, excellent analytical/problem-solving skills, fast-learner, resourceful, committed, hard-worker, and self-initiative. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Noridian Administrative Services STATE OF IOWA June 2018 to Present Position: Java Developer / Mainframe Batch Development  Location: Des Moines IOWA    Description:  Eligibility Verification System (ELVS) and Interactive Voice response System: Eligibility portal is the IOWA Medicaid web-portal where providers can access Members and claims information in 2 ways -via Web portal and assigned phone numbers. They need to enter the basic information like Member id, DOB Gender or some of them to know the status for the member OR claims etc. This takes the input from the legacy system and loaded to the Database.    Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Involved in design, development, enhancements and bug fixes.  ? Interact with Business Analyst and Subject Matter Experts (SME) to understand the requirements and for any clarifications required by the team.  ? Involved in designing front-end screens using Java script, JSP and HTML 5.  ? Used Java Collections API, Spring Frameworks extensively in the application.  ? Regression testing of application in multiple stages.  ? Documenting Unit Test Plan (UTP) and Unit Test Results (UTR).  ? Involved in post implementation support.  ? Deploying code in Development, Test and UAT Instances.  ? Used Onbase for tracking defects and project management.  ? Used VSS for Version Control across common source code used by developers.    Environment: Developed User Interfaces using JSP, HTML, JavaScript and CSS, AngularJS, ReactJS, Business Layer using Java Collections API and Spring framework, JDBC Batch Enhancement using COBOL, JCL and other Mainframe Technologies. Java/ Front End Developer S2tech - Des Moines, IA June 2017 to June 2018 Description:  Provider portal is developed to maintain add update the information for the providers for the enrollment in the system. Once provider submit the application to the Medicaid it OnBase reads document and loaded the initial information to the database but Provider portal allows the provider team to do any verification / addition or deletion for the provider. This is used within the organization.    Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Involved in design, development, enhancements and bug fixes.  ? Interact with Business Analyst and Subject Matter Experts (SME) to understand the requirements and for any clarifications required by the team.  ? Involved in designing front-end screens using Java script, JSP and HTML 5.  ? Used Java Collections API, Sping Frameworks extensively in the application.  ? Documenting Unit Test Plan (UTP) and Unit Test Results (UTR).  ? Involved in post implementation support.  ? Deploying code in Development, Test and UAT Instances.  ? Used Onbase for tracking defects and project management.  ? Used VSS for Version Control across common source code used by developers.    Environment: Developed User Interfaces using JSP, HTML, Javascript and CSS, AngularJS, ReactJS, Business Layer using Java Collections API and Spring framework. Software Engineer PACE Info Systems New Delhi - Delhi, Delhi April 2006 to May 2008 Location: New Delhi India    Description:  Development of the System for Repayment and Interest Payment to Financing Agencies. The System manages all this activity in very efficient way. A repayment is the act of paying back money previously borrowed from a lender. Repayment usually takes the form of periodic payments that normally include part principal plus interest in each payment. It provides facility of repayment calculation interest calculation and generating invoice and also generates the reports.    Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Creating Business Requirement and Design Documents.  ? Develop and write code in HTML, JavaScript, Core Java, and JSP as front-end components.  ? Develop the Unit Test Plans, write Test cases and Test conditions.  ? Create Test Data for Unit Testing and  ? Perform Unit Testing and Regression Testing.  ? Deploying code in Development, Test and UAT Instances.  ? Used VSS for Version Control across common source code used by developers.    Environment: Developed User Interfaces using JSP, HTML, JavaScript and CSS Education Masters in COMPUTER APPLICATIONS UP Technical University Lucknow - Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh Skills Design patterns, Html, Javascript, Reactjs, Scripting, Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Spring, Jcl, Jsp, Servlet, Struts, Version control, Vss, Jira, Junit, Css, Tomcat, Web server Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Programming Language& Scripting language and Others Java, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, ReactJS  Java Standard Edition Core Java, JDBC.  J2EE Technologies Java EE 5/6, JSP, Servlet, JDBC  Open Source Framework Struts 1.2/2.0, Spring 2.x, J-Unit  IDEs & Tools Eclipse  Application/Web Servers WebLogic 8.1, Apache Tomcat 6, Apache Web Server  Databases Oracle 9i, MySQL 5.5, MS SQL Server 2008  O/S & Environment Windows Vista/XP/2000, Sun Solaris and Linux  Version Control VSS  Defect/Bug Tracking JIRA, Quality Center  Testing Tools JUNIT  Design Patterns MVC, Factory method, Builder, Singleton and Decorator  Mainframe Technologies COBOL, JCL, VSAM, File-AID, PANVALET and Expeditor