Java Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Full Stack Developer - Fidelity Investments, - NC Charlotte, NC Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Full Stack Developer Fidelity Investments, - NC September 2017 to Present The project is all about master data management. The data is being captured from the customers and provided by operations team through Angular UI. This data is then sent to backend using Restful Web Services. Once the data is approved in the backend, the data will be flown to down streams using Rabbit MQ Topics. This entire application is hosted on the AWS EC2 instances on Tomcat.    Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Involved in SDLC requirements gathering, analysis, design, development and testing of application, developed using AGILE/Scrum methodology.  ? Utilized Java 1.8 features like Lambda expressions for collection evaluation and comparing the data, Stream API for Bulk data operations on Collections which would increase the performance of the Application, Parallel operations on collections for effective sorting mechanisms and to change the sequential stream flow of threads while session establishment.  ? Used java 1.8 features like stream, Lambda expressions, functional interface, collections, Date/Time changes and type annotations.  ? Created AWS Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) for instance RDP/SSH logon, worked with teams to lock down security groups.  ? Used HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap and AngularJS created GUI interface of the web page.  ? Worked on configuration and administration of databases like MySQL and NoSQL databases like MongoDB.  ? Involved in the user interface implementation for various screens of the application using java swings.  ? Worked with databases like MongoDB, MySQL.  ? Translation of different reports made in Oracle reports and discoverer.  ? Developed React JS pages, Web services calls and AJAX calls for the application  ? Developed test cases and test plans besides involving in Unit testing, Integration testing and User Acceptance testing extensively.  ? Created AngularJS controllers, services and used Angular filters for filter functionality in search box and integrator functionalities.  ? Developed Rest API to processes the data from DB to another Rest Service.  ? Worked on AWS, High Availability Practices and deploying backup/restore infrastructure.  ? Involved in building COSMOS web services test application.  ? Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  ? Worked on Continuous Integration using Jenkins for timely builds, code coverage, running test.  ? Involved in architecture design, development and implementation of Hadoop deployment, backup and recovery systems.  ? Designed and Developed the Monitoring and commanding capability in the Java Swing UI using the common Swing components.  ? Developed the web applications using Core Java Threading and Collection.  ? Wrote JavaScript and JQuery programming to get AJAX functionality for the website  ? Coded web services to expose Oracle DB Functions and Store procedures.  ? Connected Data sources and performed operations using Spring Data Framework features like Spring JDBC and Spring ORM.  ? Integrated Spring DAO for data access using Hibernate to fetch data from database and avoid redundant database access statements.  ? Created and presented training materials surrounding adoption of the Groovy language.  ? Developed Oracle PL/SQL store procedures and functions to process information used to generate reports. Java Full Stack Developer Walgreens - Deerfield, IL August 2015 to August 2017 The project is about finding the doctor opinion by category. We have a UI to search by category and the results will be shown with the time slots. Frontend and backend are integrated with Restful web services. JPA and Hibernate is used as ORM and Spring Restful web services are used.    Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Extensively involved in developing Web interface using JSP, JSP Standard Tag Libraries (JSTL) using Struts Framework.  ? Developed application using spring MVC, Spring Batch, JSP, JSTL and AJAX on the presentation layer, the business layer is built using Spring.  ? Worked on Angular, HTML5, CSS3 and Typescript. Worked on additional frameworks like Bootstrap for responsive design.  ? Designed the system based on spring MVC Model architecture. Developed a business logic layer using spring Dependency Injection and client-side Java-beans for DAO Design Patterns.  ? Create internal dashboards, alerts, and scheduled reports to monitor overall Splunk performance. On boarded new data into a multi-tiered Splunk environment.  ? Designed and developed components relating to Concept Wave projects.  ? Created and updated database objects in Concept Wave frameworks.  ? Created Stream Rest based Application interfaces on java 8 environment.  ? Implemented batch configuration in spring boot application. Created the Maven project to integrate Spring boot, Restful API, Oracle and Micro Services.  ? Worked on Java Multithreading, Collections & Coherence Framework. Implemented Java Multithreading to refresh the cache at a given set of time interval.  ? Involved in process for builds and deployments with Maven, Bamboo and Jenkins for continuous integration.  ? Created WAR/EAR files using MAVEN build and deployed them on JBOSS server.  ? Created multi-module Maven project and used Maven to build applications and Jenkins for continuous integration continuous deployment.  ? Created User services in Cloud Foundry for connecting database with different life cycles using spring profile.  ? Used SOAP web service to get corporate card information and to make changes in the card database for businesses.  ? Worked with IBM SOA Suites like WebSphere MQ Programming.  ? Created API Jenkins job, set up GitHub repository for Mule project also created project POM.  ? Created SOAP web service in pushing data to downstream systems and Implemented request and response objects using SOAP web services.  ? Wrote SQL statements for retrieving data from DB2 using JDBC and used IBM Data Studio to view and update the DB2 Database and worked on MongoDB.  ? Developed and written Stored Procedures and views to extract the needed data from DB2 and reflect on the UI.  ? Created DB2 Server Stored Procedures for implementing business logic at the database level. Java/J2EE Developer Sparity - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2014 to December 2014 This project is about underwriting for the life insurance. Insurance quote should be calculated based on the gender, smoker category, age and mortality rates. Underwriting rules are setup through admin page and the quote is being shown to the user.    Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  ? Used MongoDB to store Big Data in JSON format and Aggregation is used in MongoDB to Match, Sort and Group operation.  ? Developed UI component with AngularJS framework by utilizing the core features like MVC pattern and Dependency Injection.  ? Developed the back-end web services using Python and designed the front end of the application using Python, CSS, AJAX, JSON, Drupal and JQuery.  ? Used collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  ? Used Multithreading to improve the performance for processing of data feeds.  ? Implemented Angular JS Data Binding capability in HTML5 to give user a rich and responsive experience.  ? Used jQuery to modify DOM elements content by using cross-browser selector engine called Sizzle.  ? Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural Pattern using Spring Framework and used Spring IOC container to maintain core Objects Lifecycle.  ? Implemented test driven development (TDD), executed unit test plans and Grails Spock Test cases for all existing controllers, Services and Domain classes and Grails Pagination to display data using Grails Templates and views.  ? Implemented Spring Security for user authentication, limit login attempts and password hashing.  ? Developed Web Services (SOAP) using Spring-WS to handle user requests and interact with other components.  ? Developed Microservices using Spring Boot and Spring Batch, that create, update, delete and get the assignment information from backend.  ? Implemented Spring Boot Microservices to divide the application into various sub modules.  ? Created application on Spring Batch framework and Multithreading to improve performance. Used Multithreading for faster and parallel processing of documents.  ? Implemented Web Services clients for APIs by using Spring Webservice Template class.  ? Used parsers like SAX and DOM for parsing xml documents and XSLT for XML transformations.  ? Designed and Developed Stored Procedures, Triggers in MS SQL to cater the needs for the entire application. Developed complex SQL queries for extracting data from the database. Education Master's Degree in Computer Science in Computer Science Northwestern Polytechnic University - Fremont, CA 2017 Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science in Computer Science Osmania University Skills Eclipse, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jboss, Ms sql server, Sql server, Oracle, Sql, Docker, Git, Gradle, Javascript, Bootstrap, Typescript, Tomcat, Web logic, Web services, Web sphere, Soap Links http://@Route Additional Information ? Result-driven IT Professional with referable & strong development experience specializing in environment building distributed applications for web deployment using Java, Spring, Spring Boot and Angular.  ? Expert in designing & building Single page Rich internet-based websites using JavaScript, AngularJS, Angular 2,4,6, Express.js, Bootstrap and NodeJS.  ? Experience in migrating from Angular JS 1.x to Angular 2.0 such as, @Route, Router Outlet, router-link etc.  ? Good Expertise in SOA using SOAP and Rest based Web Services  ? Expertise in test Driven Development using Junit, Mockito, Karma and Jasmine  ? Experience in supporting legacy applications using technologies JDBC, Servlets, JSP, Java Server Faces (JSF), Java Persistence API (JPA), JNDI Struts and Hibernate.  ? Good exposure towards various spring modules: Aspect-oriented Programming (AOP), Instrumentation, Integration, Security, Boot, Spring JDBC  ? Good Exposure towards AWS and PCF for deployment of Microservices  ? Good hands on Rabbit MQ and Apache Kafka  ? Experience in Installing, Configuring, Deploying and maintaining Application and Web Servers such as Oracle Web Logic, JBoss Enterprise Application Platform (EAP), Apache Tomcat Server and IBM Web Sphere 8.5.  ? Experience in Integrating and deploying applications using Apache Camel, Apache CXF, Apache Kafka, ActiveMQ, Service Mix and JBoss Fuse Enterprise Service Bus (ESB).  ? Expertise in Producing and consuming Web Services Technologies like Restful (JAX-RS), SOAP (JAX-WS), JAX-RPC and JAXR ( Java API for XML Registries).  ? Experience in writing SQL queries in PL/SQL, Triggers, and Stored Procedures in Relational Database management systems like Oracle, MS SQL, MySQL, and DB2.  ? Experience in understanding and using NoSQL databases Mongo DB, Apache Cassandra, Couch DB, and Redis.  ? Expertise in using Version Control Systems likes SVN, GIT, GitLab and BitBucket  ? Expertise in developing, Testing, Debugging, Integrating and Deploying Enterprise applications using Integrated Development Environments (IDE) IntelliJ IDEA, Eclipse, STS, RAD and Net Beans.  ? Experience in Continuous Integration (CI) using Jenkins  ? Good understanding of the build tools Maven and NPM  ? Good at interacting with clients and solving application environment issues and can communicate effectively with people at different levels including stakeholders, internal teams, and the senior management.    Technical competencies:    Operating Systems: Windows and Unix  Languages: Java 8, JavaScript and TypeScript  Web Technologies: Angular 6, Bootstrap, Angular Material, NodeJS, CSS3  Web Services: REST and SOAP  Frameworks: Spring Boot, Spring DATA JPA, Hibernate and Selenium  RDBMS: ORACLE, MS SQL Server and MY SQL  NoSQL: MongoDB and Apache Cassandra  Web/Application Servers: Apache Tomcat, JBoss, Web Sphere, Web Logic, IBM Web Sphere  IDE's: Eclipse, NetBeans, Web Storm  Version Controls: GIT, and Bit Bucket  Methodologies: Agile -Scrum and Agile-Kanban  Build Tools: Maven, Gradle, NPM, Docker and Jenkin  Cloud: AWS (Lambda, S3, SQS, SNS, Cloud Watch, Cloud Front, EC2) and Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF)