Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer at AT&T Middletown, NJ • Over 9 years of experience in software development includes Analysis, Design and Development of quality software for Web-based applications using JAVA/J2EE Technologies using Software Development Methodologies like AGILE and Waterfall.  • Experience in building enterprise Applications and Distributed Systems using technologies such as Core Java, J2EE (Servlets, JSP, Spring, Hibernate, JPA, Struts, JDBC) and XML.  • Good understanding on Java 8.  • Working knowledge on Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring DAO and Spring MVC architectures.  • Working knowledge on apache CXF with Spring.  • Experience in implementing Web Services such as SOAP and REST using WSDL, JAX-WS and JAX-RS.  • Hands on Experience in JPA and HIBERNATE for persisting data to different relational database.  • Worked on Struts2.0 open source framework.  • Working knowledge on Angular 6, JavaScript, Ajax, jQuery, jqGrid.  • Working knowledge of creating components, services, modules, routers, pipes, forms, directives, promise, observables in Angular 6.  • Working knowledge on HTML, CSS.  • Well experienced in configuring and deploying applications onto application servers like  Tomcat, Web logic, Web Sphere.  • Hands on Experience in Oracle PL/SQL.  • Good communication skills and team player. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Java Developer AT&T, Location - Middletown, NJ March 2017 to Present Description:  R3 - SBS is a tool for Small business Sales where Sales team have opportunity to view different  products associated with account and has options update account information based on different  Products.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the analysis, design & development of the application.  • Following Technologies Used: Angular 6, J2EE, Spring, JPA, Rest, SOAP web services.  • Created different components, services, modules, routers, pipes, forms, directives, promise, observables in Angular 6.  • Used Spring framework to develop application.  • Responsible for development of Dashboard.  • Worked on Agile methodologies. Java Developer AT&T, Location - Middletown, NJ September 2015 to February 2017 Description:  National Dashboard 360 provides the Regional & Local Business Markets (RLBM) Inbound business sales teams, the opportunity to enhance the customer experience by optimizing and automating view functions on the dashboard. It will show a quick "at-a-glance" view of products on existing  Customer account and broadband qualifications.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the analysis, design & development of the application.  • Following Technologies Used: Angular, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, SOAP web services.  • Used Hibernate as ORM Framework.  • Used Spring framework to develop application.  • GUI Implementation using Angular.  • Used WebLogic for design, development, and deployment of applications.  • Responsible for development of Broadband module.  • Worked on Agile methodologies. Java Developer AT&T, Location - Middletown, NJ June 2014 to September 2015 Description:  Currently, Customer Premises Support does not have a centralized storage of data and sharing between the engineers. Engineers create and store all communication data which includes letters to customers and notes regarding site status in their own working space. Other groups such as Customer Care, Sales does not have access to the customer and site readiness data. This application is going to build a GUI customer premises communication portal so that engineers can create and share customer and site readiness data in a centralized place. In addition, other groups such as Customer Care and Sales can also utilize the data.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the analysis, design & development of the application.  • Following Technologies Used: JAVA, J2EE, Struts 2, Hibernate, JQuery, SOAP webservices.  • Used Hibernate as ORM Framework.  • Used Struts 2 framework to develop application.  • GUI Implementation using JQuery, AJAX, CSS, HTML.  • Used WebLogic for design, development, and deployment of applications.  • Responsible for Fallout Manager Functionality development.  • Worked on Agile methodologies. Java Developer AT&T, Location - Pune, Maharashtra February 2013 to June 2014 Description:  OSM is a web application which can be located into Ordering segment of AT&T. It allows application user to augment their order information. This application can be used over intranet in administrator mode as well as over internet in customer mode. Please check this link https://osm.att.com/OSMWeb    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the analysis, design & development of the application.  • Following Technologies Used: JAVA, J2EE, Struts 2, Hibernate, JQuery, Spring IOC, SOAP webservices  • Used Hibernate as ORM Framework.  • Used Struts 2 framework to develop application.  • Used Spring IOC for dependency injection of runtime properties based on environments.  • GUI Implementation using JQuery, AJAX, CSS, HTML.  • Used WebLogic for design, development, and deployment of applications.  • Responsible for ordering functionality development.  • Worked on Agile methodologies. Java Developer AT&T, Location - Pune, Maharashtra February 2012 to February 2013 Description:  This project is to redesign the eMaintenance architecture SA-7a to support use of Regular and Designated CCID (any level of CCID Hierarchy necessary) to manage Service Assurance that couldn't be delivered in SA-7a due to cost and time constraints. To allow Service Assurance Center processes and ES&S processes to work independently in support of providing electronic interfaces for Enterprise customers.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in development of searching functionality of application.  • Following Technologies Used: JAVA, J2EE, Struts 2, JDBC, Ajax, JavaScript, jQGrid(JQuery)  • Used Struts 2 framework to develop application.  • GUI Implementation using JQuery, AJAX, CSS, HTML.  • Used WebLogic for design, development, and deployment of applications.  • Worked on waterfall methodologies. Java Developer AT&T, Location - Pune, Maharashtra October 2010 to February 2012 Description:  eCommerce project is a vital project for AT&T ordering segment. It allows an End user of AT&T to create a custom form - a form suitable to a user's need. It delivers an increase use of Business Direct eOrder by business customers with high repetitive monthly order volume. The creation and design of a Company's Custom Forms is based on the company's ordering pattern and is intended to simplify the process of ordering and to reduce errors associated with the orders.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in development Administration functionality of application.  • Following Technologies Used: JAVA, J2EE, Struts 2, Hibernate, Ajax, JavaScript, jQGrid(JQuery)  • Used Struts 2 framework to develop application.  • GUI Implementation using JQuery, AJAX, CSS, HTML.  • Used WebLogic for design, development, and deployment of application. Education Bachelor's Skills BEA, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, JNDI, JSP, SERVLETS, STRUTS, AJAX, CSS, WEB LOGIC, WEB SERVICES, WEBSPHERE, APPLICATION SERVER, Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, SVN, XML, Java J2Ee, Angularjs, MVC, JEE, Rest Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Languages Java 1.6,7,8 SQL, PL/SQL  Technologies JSP, Servlets, JNDI, JDBC, SOAP, AJAX  Web Technologies HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX  Application Server BEA Web logic, Websphere  JAVA/J2EE HIBERNATE, SPRING, WEB SERVICES, STRUTS, Log4J, Maven Building tool.  Database(s) Oracle 11g  Version Control Tools GIT, SVN  Operating Systems Windows, UNIX