MuleSoft Developer / Mule ESB Developer MuleSoft <span class="hl">Developer</span> / Mule ESB <span class="hl">Developer</span> MuleSoft Developer / Mule ESB Developer - AstraZeneca Gaithersburg, MD • Over 8+ years of experience in IT industry including 4 years of hands on experience using MuleSoft ESB and Enterprise Application Integration (EAI).  • Implemented ESB Integration Services using MuleSoft ESB enterprise application (EAI) using MuleSoft 3.x.  • Aided in troubleshooting Mule ESB (debuggers / flow analyzers), deployment, and tuning and also worked with Mule ESB 3.7.1 and migrated Mule ESB 3.5.1 apps to Mule ESB 3.7.1.  • Extensively worked on both Enterprise and Community edition of MULE ESB and configured MULE API manager and RAML.  • Experience in using connectors such as Salesforce, HTTP, FTP and File connectors.  • Experience in creating Web Services using JAX-WS, Apache Axis, XSL, XSLT, WSDL and SOAP message.  • Strong Experience in implementing Service Oriented Architectures (SOA) using XML based Web Services (SOAP/WSDL) and REST Web Services.  • Worked with XML parsers like SAX, DOM, JDOM, XML Beans.  • Expertise in using ANT and Maven scripts for building and deploying application in Mule Cloud and Azure cloud services.  • Well experienced in working with application servers including IBM WebSphere, Red Hat JBoss Oracle Web Logic and Apache Tomcat servers.  • Experience in developing test cases and test plans by using Junit. Extensive experience in Unit testing, Integration TDD testing and User Acceptance testing.  • Design and development of integration workflows using MuleSoft ESB.  • Created Mule ESB based tooling suite for handling message transitioning, validation, enrichment and routing to downstream entity data consumers.  • Experience in Mule Administration, Configuration and Tuning with MuleSoft MMC and Enterprise release capabilities.  • Proficient with Web Services Description Language (WSDL) for describing Web services and developing a UDDI compliant registry for publishing and finding description for Web services.  • Performed System Integration test to ensure quality of the system. Work Experience MuleSoft Developer / Mule ESB Developer AstraZeneca - Gaithersburg, MD January 2018 to Present AstraZeneca plc is a British-Swedish multinational pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical company. It provides technological, operational and consulting solutions and services to individuals, healthcare organizations, as well as the federal and state governments.  Responsibilities:  • Used Mule ESB in planning the application as a middleware between the outsider framework and the client-side framework  • Active in the design, implementation and deployment of full software development lifecycle (SDLC) of the project.  • AGILE development process has been followed. Experienced with stand-up, Planning and Code review meetings.  • Used CA AGILE Rally system and to keep track user stories.  • Designed Orchestrator API's using Mule ESB, which polls inbound folder to watch for new files using file connector and AMQP connector to send messages to Rabbit MQ queues.  • Used Enterprise service bus Mule 3.8.3 EE with deployment artifact Mule MMC.  • Used SFTP protocol to transfer the batch files to be delivered to internal/external apps.  • Worked under transforming System API's using both data weave in mule Anypoint studio like Any to Any format (Any: Delimited, fixed width, XML), Any to X12 EDI formats and X12 to Any format.  • Created an integration foundation to enable modularity (i.e., Plug-n-play) between various solutions.  • Created reusable and multi -tenant integration platform.  • Designed flows by integrating SFTP, FTP and HTTP connectors.  • Worked with medical professional claims file(837P), Medical institutional claims file (837I), Pharmacy claims remittance file (835), referral response files (278) and Eligibility and Enrollments.  • Deployed Batch file API's in non -cloud environment at (stage and production).  • Used MuleSoft pack using latest 5010 version of EDI X12 transactions (as per VA RFP)  • Used Redis database for storing CAAS API's (Configuration as a Service).  • Used AMQP connector (Rabbit MQ for Messaging purpose) and MS SQL (for Mule Management console Database).  • Worked with the EDI X12 transactions to transform into XML (using custom XSD).  • Worked with XML validations.  • Used Jenkins for CI/CD.  • Performed dynamic mapping between the status codes in input system and corresponding statuses received by the output system.  • Worked with MUnit test cases to test the flow control and error checking mechanisms like null checks and default values.  • Worked on Rabbit MQ and Redis database which provides configuration-based solution pack for data transformation.  • Worked with Custom Java components wherever they are necessary.  Environment: Mule ESB 3.8.3, Redis Database, HP Fortify, Anypoint studio, Jenkins, Apache Maven, Glass fish server, CXF, SOAP UI, MS SQL, MMC, GIT bash, SVN, Rally. Senior MuleSoft Developer Delta Dental - San Francisco, CA October 2016 to December 2017 Delta Dental is one of the largest dental plans. Delta Dental's dental insurance operation. Core purpose is the advancement of oral health care to customers, partners and consumers through dental insurance programs and philanthropic efforts. Online portal offers the services and is developed using Mule ESB.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible and active in the analysis, definition, design, implementation and deployment of full software development lifecycle (SDLC) of the project.  • AGILE development process has been followed. Experienced with stand-up, Retrospective, Demo, Planning and Code review meetings.  • Integration of Mule ESB system while utilizing Http, File system and SFTP transports.  • Implemented data transformation using XPATH, XSLT, Data Weave, custom java classes.  • Extensively used Mule components that includes File, SMTP, FTP, SFTP, JDBC Connector, and Transaction Manager.  • Migrated Mule ESB 3.5 apps to Mule ESB 3.7.3 and updated all the dependencies.  • Migrated deprecated Data Mapper mapping to Data Weave in MULE ESB.  • Developed RESTful/SOAP web services in Mule ESB based on SOA architecture.  • Design and Implemented XML/WSDL/SOAP/RESTFUL Web Services to provide the interface to the various clients running on both Java and Non- Java applications.  • Design and document REST/HTTP, SOAP APIs, including JSON data formats and API versioning strategy.  • Experience in MuleSoft Anypoint API platform on designing and implementing Mule APIs.  • Strong knowledge and hands on experience in documenting and designing REST API's using RAML.  • Have written MUnit test cases to validate the Mule flows.  • Developed Mule flows to integrate Data from various sources into Database and some transformations were done at the integration layer.  • Developed interfaces between Sales Force, REST and SOAP web-services.  • Used Salesforce OAuth connector to enable OAuth authentication before performing the integration process, because to retrieve all contacts from the log as well as to make the process records safe.  • Made calls to the Salesforce API directly from the documentation to discover live, documented use-cases that are built around Yammer API.  • Used salesforce analytics cloud connector to make connectivity to the third-party applications from which services used by the Mule ESB.  • Developing Mule ESB projects for the services with synchronous and asynchronous Mule flows.  • Used SVN as the configuration management tool.  • Used Log4J components for logging. Perform daily monitoring of log files and resolve issues.  • Involved in installing and configuring Eclipse IDE, Ant, Web Logic and Maven for development.  • Actively involved in getting the QA, UAT and production issues resolved.  Environment: Java1.7/J2EE, Web Services, Hibernate, JPA, MuleSoft ESB 3.5.3/3.7.3, AnyPoint Studio, RAML, Salesforce, Cloudhub, HTML, JavaScript, Oracle 11g, Mongo DB, JSON, Eclipse IDE, Java Beans, log4j, CVS, Rational Rose, JUnit, Maven,GitHub, Jenkins. Senior Java Developer Johnson Controls - Milwaukee, WI January 2014 to September 2016 The application is used for multi-user, multi-location Supply chain management. It meets all the information requirements of freight service providers in moving their customers' shipments across various locations.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Production Deployment and production support.  • Worked on Meta Data Framework for UI side to implement different components for page view.  • Used Rally Defect tracking system and to keep track user stories.  • Implemented back end code that merges with UI component for better user interaction and to simply their experience.  • Developed the core modules for the services by using n- tier architecture.  • Coding end to end for adding more bulk queue to overcome database retention for HRB module.  • Extensively used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information from the Oracle database.  • Used Hibernate Query Language (HQL) for writing the queries.  • Used Validator framework of the Struts2.0 for client side and server-side validation.  • Parsed the XML based responses using JAXB Parser and validated XML against the schema.  • Extensively participated in conversion from Sybase to oracle databases.  • Developing Web Service Client Component to make use of Power Image System's XML API.  • Deployed EJB Components on Web Logic, Used JDBC API for interaction with Oracle DB.  • Implemented and used Web Services with the help of WSDL and SOAP to get updates from the third parties.  • Developed MDB files using XSLT to simplify comparison of project specific large XML configuration files.  • Introduced OSGI for server-side development on Web Logic App server.  • Create Load Test script using QA artifacts to replicate the JVM Crash.  • Used Eclipse for development purposes. Also, integrated JIRA in Eclipse for tracking the bugs  • Supported IST, QA and UAT builds and identified issues in Smoke testing and tracked them efficiently.  • Involved in deploying the application in UNIX and to connect to see logs for fixing UAT/Production defects. Used ANT for building and deploying Application.  • Worked on different VM environment such as Linux, UBUNTU as per team and project requirements.  • Used Tivoli Access Manager to control access and enforce policies across multiple resources  Environment: JAVA 1.6, J2EE, Servlets 2.4, EJB 2.0, JDBC 2.0, JAXB, DAO, Meta Data Framework, HTML, Java Script, XML, CSS, Ajax, Web logic Application server 10.3, LDAP, Oracle 10g, Log4J, Eclipse 3.1, CVS, JQUERY, Ant 1.5, SOA, SOAP, DB2, PL/SQL, SQL, Web Services-WSDL, SOAP, UDDI, SOAP UI, JAX-RS, JERSEY, Linux. Java/J2EE Developer Aurora Health Care - Milwaukee, WI January 2013 to December 2014 The system offers facilities like registering a user, login to the system, updating the profile, accessing, updating and deleting the user saved vehicles and user preferred dealers, Accessories, Offers, Credit Applications and Survey info. It allows multiple applications to access the information stored in different database schemas specific to the applications.  Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with peer developers, business analyst, QA engineers, project manager to develop Codes and Standards Automated System using Groovy/Grails, Java, J2EE, Ajax, J Query and JavaScript.  • Worked as core technical team member for analysis of requirements, design, development, unit and integration testing.  • Interacting with the Business Analyst and Host to understating the requirements using the Agile methodologies and SCRUM meeting to keep track and optimizing the end client needs.  • Involved in the analysis, design, and development and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle(SDLC).  • Used Microsoft Visio for developing Use case diagrams, Activity flow diagrams, Class diagrams and Object diagrams in the design phase.  • Used Core Java - GOF & J2EE patterns for designing the applications.  • Worked with the Struts framework hibernate integration to maximize the Classical model view controller layer (MVC) Architecture.  • Developed action classes and action forms to collect input.  • Used the Struts validation and Tiles Framework in the presentation layer.  • Implemented complex back-end component to get the count in no time against large size MySQL database (about 4 crore rows) using Java multi-threading.  • Used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database. Generated the Hibernate mapping files and developed the underlying domain objects.  • Used DAO on the Data access layer with the Hibernate. Actively involved in designing and implementing Singleton, MVC and several other design patterns such as Composite View, Session Façade, Business Delegate, Bean Factory, DAO.  • Used Apache CXF for creating the Web Services to interact with other modules.  • Developed WSDL in eclipse. Used SOAP to retrieve provider's data and SOAP UI to test Web services.  • Used JUnit framework for unit testing of application and ANT to build the application and deployed on Web Logic.  • Configured and used Log4J for logging.  • Used Tortoise SVN for version control and used HPQC to track defects and change requests.  • Used SAML for SSO login to access the web service provided and OAuth for authorizing the user to the application.  • Implemented the user interface using the Java script, JSP, AJAX, HTML, CSS and Tag libs.  • Involved in evaluating various tools and tool kits to improve the development performance.  • Designed OO components and developed the functionality based on reusability in Core Java.  • Designed a guided inspection template and inspected the design models.  • Worked on functional test cases and tabulated functional test analysis.  Environment: Core Java/J2EE, Struts, Validation Framework, JSP, Hibernate, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JNDI, Apache CXF, XML, SOAP, WSDL, SAX, DOM, SOAP UI, Web Logic, Rational Rose, Tortoise SVN, Log4J, JUnit, ANT, Oracle 10g, Eclipse, JVM. Java Developer Value labs December 2010 to November 2012 Responsibilities:  • Prepared Requirement Specification Document by analyzing the business requirements.  • Contribution in Requirement gathering, designing, coding, release management.  • Involved in project initiation, estimation activities, requirements gathering sessions, communicated directly with the Site merchandising team to get the appropriate requirements  • Involved in the Design phase of the application.  • Worked on application center screens and developed user interfaces using JSP.  • Used JavaScript for client-side validations.  • Have written browser specific AJAX call code to invoke the services & update the UI controls.  • Code written in Java with features like Collections, Exception Handling, Serialization, IO and multithreading  • Developed the application using Struts Framework that uses JSP, Model View Controller (MVC) architecture.  • Used Structuralists to develop UI pages.  • Integrated application with Validation framework for server-side validations.  • Involved in the implementation of Web Services using Restfull APIs.  • Developed ANT scripts and developed builds using Apache Ant.  • Used Rational Clear case as Version control and configuration management tool.  • Involved in the Unit Testing of the application using JUnit.  • Implemented logging mechanism using Log4j framework.  • Written code to do xml parsing using JAXP& Marshalling and Un-Marshalling using JAXB.  • Used WebSphere Application Server for deployment.  • Have written SQL queries &PL-SQL - Stored procedures, functions, triggers, cursors, and object types.  • Involved in integrating different modules in the project.  • Involved in doing Junit.  Environments: Eclipse, JSP, Struts, Validation Framework, JDBC, Restful Web Services, Log4j, ANT, JUnit, Oracle10g, XML, CVS, WebSphere, Java Script, MVC. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science JNTU - India 2006 to 2010 Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jax, Jaxb, Jaxp, Jax-ws, Jboss, Jms, Jndi, jquery, Jsp, Servlets, C++, Dtd, Git, Gradle, Html, Javascript, SQL, XML, Sql Server, Linux, Linux Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/zubair-mohammed-a9a232190 Certifications/Licenses Driver's License