JAVA Developer <span class="hl">JAVA</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> JAVA Developer - SMB Product- Comcast Philadelphia, PA, PA, PA, PA Qualified with 7+ years of experience in designing & developing software solutions for various industries including Banking,Insurance, and Supply Chain Management, Business-to-business market place using n-tier architecture in distributed environment and Java /J2EE, AngularJS and Client / Server Technologies, web, and distributed end-to-end enterprise applications.    • Good Experience as UI developer using HTML-CSS-Javascript-AngularJS, Angular Js2.    • Expertise include J2EE (EJB, JMS, Servlet, JSP, XML, JDBC, RMI, JAVAMAIL, JNDI, JAX-RPC, Web Services),J2SE, AJAX, Commerce, Object Oriented Design & Programming, RDBMS, Liferay Portlets. Well versed with ESB, BPM, BPEL.    • Strong understanding in IBM BPM 8.0.1.1/8.5.5 Standard and Advanced version for businessprocess applications.  • Expertise in design and development of various web and enterprise applications using Flex 3.0, Flex 4.x and Action Script 3.0 together with Ext-JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5, XHTML, JSON, Bootstrap and DOM.  • Architected Enterprise applications using standard J2EE frameworks.  • Great Exposure to Onsite/Offshore development model.    • Developed technical architectures, deployment and post-deployment planning.    • Developed custom AngularJS directives to build custom reusable modules to use across the application.    • Built application service layer using AngularJS Dependency Injection.    • Extensively used JQuery, XPath in web based applications.    • Strong Experience in database design using PL/SQL to write Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers and strong.    • experience in writing complex queries, using Oracle 8i/9i, DB2 UDB 6.5, Sybase, SQL Server 2000 and MySQL.    • Strong experienced in various IDEs like Eclipse, Edit Plus, Web storm, Sublime text,  Notepad++, Adobe Photoshop and brackets.    • Experienced in deploying J2EE applications on Apache Tomcat web server and Web Logic, Web Sphere, Jboss application server.    • Strong Experience in rapid development of Web applications using AGILE (SCRUM) Methodology.  • Good working knowledge in Web/Application servers such as JBoss 6.x, Apache Tomcat 6.x and Web sphere 6.x.    • Expert in core java with strong understanding of Struct2, SWING, Microservices like SOA with ESB, and some XP Practices, Collections, Multithreading, Event handling and Exception handling Java, J2EE,MAVEN, EJB, Servlets, JSP, JAX-RPC, RMI, JMS, CORBA, JDBC, Java Networking, Applets,Multithreading, Swing and XML. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience JAVA Developer SMB Product- Comcast - Philadelphia, PA April 2015 to Present Description: The Small Business Medium Friction-less will helps Comcast Sales represents to create opportunities for the new and existing customers. Created opportunities will help to selects the products with various price and do the configuration for the single, double and triple play offers. Selected offers and communicated with simplified contracting, e signature and PDF options post that product is scheduled with installation pre wire selection with DOI and CDDD windows. After the order submits it's validated with billings systems with work bench, CTP and CSP applications    Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, design and development, unit testing, implementation and support  • Code development using Spring, Hibernate, Oracle, Maven etc. on Eclipse IDE.  • Involved in Agile Planning-Iteration Planning Meeting (IPM) and Estimation Sessions of user stories and participating in scrum Meetings to update the status daily.  • Designed and Developed Web, and client-server environments including Java Platform, Enterprise Edition ( Java EE), Enterprise Java Bean (EJB)  • Analysis, design, development and maintenance of Warehouse web based, networking systems and N-Tier architecture applications.  • Developed the application using Spring Web MVC architecture and Spring AOP.  • Developed Robust and secured Enterprise Java Applications (EJB) and Distributed Applications.  • System design using various J2EE patterns like MVC2, Iterator pattern, Adaptor Patten, Singleton Pattern, Business.  • Delegate, Session Façade, Value List Handler, Value Dispatcher, Data Access Objects etc.  • Developed the web applications using Angular.js and Node.js.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS 3.0 and JavaScript.  • Developed a single page, mobile-first, cross-device/cross-browser web application for real-time location sharing utilizing Bootstrap, JavaScript API.  • Followed three-tier architecture. Developed application using SPRING MVC presentation layer, Spring-Service layer, Spring Transaction management, Spring DAO- persistence layer and Spring Batch.  • Built the REST Web Services using spring and then consumed the web services in Angular JS using http methods like GET and POST.  • Used ANT tool for the build and deployment script. Created Ant build script files to compile, test and deploy.  • DrTransport application and automated the build process using Anthill tool.  • Used JMS API to notify the customers when the appointment was scheduled for customer.  • Created WAR and EAR files for deployment in the Development environment. Developed Event Logging & Error Reporting application using Servlets.  • Used Quest TOAD, SQL Developer, PL/SQL, SQL*Loader for internal data storage and retrieval.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Oracle, Maven Gherkin, HTML5, CSSAngular JS2, ANT. Maven 3.1.1, Eclipse, JIRA, coded UI, Appium, Protractor, SoapUI, TestNG, Agile (SCRUM), PL/SQL. JAVA Developer Bank of America - Pennington, NJ October 2013 to March 2015 Description: Development of business portal for Philippines National Bank for external marketing, internal banking and online processing of credit card related accounting. The project involved different modules for internal use and external customer use. Internal module contained sub modules like Admin portal for employees to manage all banking accounting activities, Referral Management System, Security, and Content Management for both internal and external user modules. External Module for customers involved a process based approach involving grievance process, application process and other Credit Card related Banking processes.    Responsibilities:  • Created Responsive & rich web application using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Jquery, media queries, animations, transitions and transforms by working with cross-functional teams for understanding of business requirements, Testing and deployment.    • Developed controllers, views and directives for application and used Http Request to read data from web servers and process JSON data to render in the UI.    • Accessed JSON formatted data from the back-end for Location-based services and used JQuery for DOM manipulations.    • Used RESTful routing and for the page navigations with Express and Node.JS.    • Involved in developing responsive web pages using media queries and Bootstrap.    • Validated forms using AngularJS and regular expressions there by providing client side validation and server validation and performed JavaScript Unit testing using jasmine following JIRA tracking tool.    • Used Grunt & Gulp server and python scripts for automation of tasks.    • Implemented MVC architecture & customized directives for views, using AngularJS.    • To test the performance of the application implemented React-DOM using ReactJS with Angular module.    • Facilitated event handling between the browse and the browser-rendering engine using Node.js.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility issues and hence worked on different browsers like safari, Internet explorer, Firefox and Google chrome.  • Git was used to hook the latest version with the build automation tool / integration tool Jenkins, Chef was    • used for managing the configuration for transforming infrastructure as a code, built the application using Maven.  • Wrote Jasmine unit tests using Karma to verify AngularJS modules and JavaScript utility routines.    • Worked in all phases of SDLC, including requirements analysis, design and development, bug fixing, supporting QA teams and debugging production issues.    • Worked in scrum process attending daily stand up and completing tasks in sprints.  • Leveraged Rally and flow doc to maintain the agile story points and burn downs.  • Extensively used Grunt and Gulp as an associate to NodeJS to establish the connectivity between database and client.    Environment:JavaScript framework, JQuery library, HTML5, CSS3, Linux server, AJAX, JSON, SOAP, XML, Node.js (npm), Express.js, Python, Bootstrap, Angular Js2, Nodemon, GlassFish, Visual Studio, Git, Jenkins, Maven, Agile methodology. JAVA Developer Mastercom Tech - Bengaluru, Karnataka November 2012 to January 2013 Description: Collection Eco system is billing collection tool for Tata Communication Ltd. And Credit control Approach is a change request which has been implemented for existing billing system. When customers are ordering for the services in NGP Portal, it required to do credit control checks. While doing this verification, it requires interacting with Collection Eco System (CES) for geeing the credit rating and outstanding balance amount for the specified customer. NGP portal will validates these values with its internal business rules and there by decide, whether to allow customers to proceed with their order or not. Also the Collection Eco System is currently having a process called "Promise To Pay". Suppose customer is having some dues and he/she promises to pay that outstanding balance with-in a specific date. As a part of this process, that date information will be updated in Collection Eco System. During this process, it also requires to update this "promise to pay date" information in NGPHJV portal system.    Responsibilities:  • Handling client change requests and enhancements on an Agile based development platform.    • The basic framework is based on MVC architecture.    • Implemented code for business logic using EJBs.    • Implemented the Struts framework for collaborative integration.    • Deployed Servlets, JSP's on Websphere server and configured it for optimal behavior in managing the client sessions.    • Designed and developed the EJB Stateless Session bean which delegates the call to the Business layer.    • Implemented the business logic using COREJAVA.    • Building Business Process Definitions, Integration Services, General Services.    • Involved in Coding and Validation of Action classes, Struts.xml, applicationContext.xml file.    • Worked with sessions for database interaction with Oracle implementing Persistence for data storing and maintenance procedures.    • Designed and developed reusable Java utility classes for the business logic functionality using services like JDBC and JNDI.    • Developed code for the ini files and other helper files for the modules.    • Extensively used JUnit for unit testing, integration testing and production testing.    • Developed the code was written using the Eclipse IDE.    • Development of custom CoachView for Text, Text Area, Table, Radio Button, Select as per business requirement.  • Used ANT Builder extensively for the code building and smoke testing.    • Created Daily Rolling Log using Log4j.    • Extensively worked for performing unit testing of project.    • Written queries, stored procedures and functions using SQL, PL/SQL in Oracle using tools like TOAD.    • Used WebSphere server for deploying the web content.    • Prepared a Best Coding Practices document and was responsible for Code Reviews.    • Used SVN for versioning at client side.    • Development of common Tool Kit for Tata Communication which can use across the BPM projects.    Environment: Java, IBM BPM8.0.1.1, J2EE, Struts, JSP, JDBC, JNDI, SQL, JBoss ESB, JavaScript, XML, DTD, Eclipse3.5, Subversion, ANT, JUnit, Log4j, Oracle, SOAP Web services, Web Sphere, Windows. JAVA Developer MastercomTech - Bengaluru, Karnataka December 2010 to November 2012 Description: Develop business process through which orders can be punched, tracked and verified throughout the work flow which is mostly done through manual intervention currently.Respective National users will have designated steps along with a common platform to verify the orders received or generated with the help of a portal. Orders come through Viznet, OPAT Manual Order Entry & Bulk Upload, Billing Manual Order Entry & Bulk Upload to National.    Responsibilities:  • Gathering the Requirements from the Business team  • Designing of business flows and implementation of Business Process Implementation  Human Services for different teams.  • Creating a Business objects, EPV and ENV Variables for Data Sources mapping.  • Implementation of Integration Services, General System Services to fetch and update the Custom Data Base.  • Implementation of validation Script and General System Services to handle common validations.  • Creation of tracking group and tracking variables for reporting purpose.  • Dojo Script enhancement as per custom requirement for system toolkit coach view  • Used Graphical User Interactive reports using various Qlikview Objects.  • Supported the application users with troubleshooting assistance.    Enviroinament:Windows, IBM BPM V8 Java, J2EE, Servlet, DB2, Oracle, QlikView, Viznet, MS Office, Bugzilla, Waterfall Methodologies. Education Master of Computer Application in Computer Application Oxford College of Engineering Bengaluru - Bengaluru, Karnataka Bachelor of Application in Application PC Jabin College Skills JAVA (7 years), J2EE (5 years), ORACLE (5 years), JAVASCRIPT (5 years), TESTING (5 years) Additional Information Skills  J2EE (4 years), JAVA (6 years), JavaScript. (4 years), Oracle (4 years), testing (4 years)    Primary Skills: Programming in Java, J2EE  Operating Systems: Windows 2000/XP, Windows 7, Unix  Languages: Java 1.6, SQL  Client/Server Technologies: J2EE, Servlets 2.5, JSP 2.0  Framework: Struts 2.0, Spring 3.0, Sofea, Mule  ORM: Hibernate 3.4, JPA 2.0  Databases: Oracle 10g, DB2  Application Servers: JBoss, Weblogic 10.3, Apache Tomcat,  BPM 8.0  Development Tools: Eclipse, Toad 8.6, IBM process  designer 8.0, Log4j, Ant, Maven  Database Connectivity: JDBC  Testing Tool: J-Unit, Rally, RFT (Rational Functional Tester),  Process Portal  Modeling Tools: Enterprise Architect  Configuration Tools: CVS, Tortoise SVN  Scripts: HTML5, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, AngularJS2