Senior Engineer II Senior Engineer II Senior Engineer II - American Express Jersey City, NJ A results-driven, customer-focused, articulate and analytical Software Engineer who can think "out of the box". Expert in Javascript, React, HTML5, CSS5 and ES6 with database analysis, design and Technical Project Manager Experience. Skilled in developing business products, requirements specifications and team manager.    Engineer valued for driving quality and consistency throughout all phases of software development projects. Partner with developers, analysts, QA and support engineers throughout the product lifecycle to produce high-quality, user-friendly, scalable and bug-free software.    Strong written and verbal communications. An enthusiastic team player and deep creative thinker. Interested in a challenging technical track career in an application development environment. Always looking for new challenges.    Technology Summary  React, ES6, Javascript, HTML, Node, Java, C, C++/CLI, Visual C++, MySQL, J2EE, C, JQuery, Git, NPM, AngularJS, Jest, Jenkins, JIRA, Bootstrap, CSS/LESS/Sass, ActionScript, PHP, VB.Net, SQL Server, HTML, XML, Unix, Linux, Mac OS X Work Experience Senior Engineer II American Express December 2018 to Present Front End Developer / Technical Project Manager  UI Developer / Technical Project Manager  • Develop web components with: ReactJS, Redux, NodeJS.  • Responsible and part of the Engineering team that redesign a SPA application for Card members in American Express, creating components with React and in-house platform built with ReactJS, REST services, javascript apis.  • Responsible for every new component developed to cover a % of Unit Test using technologies such as JEST.  • Responsible for deployments of repositories/components to different environments using Jenkins/CI tool.  • Responsible for a Scrum team working as Technical Project Manager working in an Agile environment.    • Responsible for running daily standups, grooming sessions, sprint retrospective and sprint planning for a team of 6 engineers and 2 QA. Work using JIRA tool to manage team backlog and daily tasks.  • Build up and maintain more than 30 React components for the new OneAmex platform, tracking production traffic, production logs and code maintenance.  • Worked with Business team to get every quarter roadmap to analyze our dependencies and any resources issues, analyzing every scrum team capacity.  • Worked and lead team to maintain our Production application from production errors, creating reports, working with splunk and with engineers to fix application errors or client-side errors.  • Reduced our production errors in half for our Dashboard page.  • Mentored engineers to follow our best practices and our internal processes  • Worked and managed a team to develop and deliver service worker in our application.  • Worked and manage a team in charge of improving our application performance, running analysis on splunk with render times, researched and worked with backend engineers to analyze response time.  • Worked with TPMs to create release plans per teams and reports for our higher managers. Engineer I American Express September 2017 to December 2018 UI Developer / Technical Project Manager  • Involved in new projects for American Express using Technologies as: ReactJS, Redux, NodeJS.  • Built components using ReactJS and NodeJS for MYCA American Express website.  • Responsible and part of the Engineering team that redesign a SPA application for Card members in American Express, creating components with React and in-house platform built with ReactJS, REST services, javascript apis. Also used library for application styling using CSS3, SASS and responsive design technologies using a base javascript.  • Responsible for every new component developed to cover a % of Unit Test using technologies such as JEST, Mocha and Chai libraries  • Responsible for deployments of repositories/components to different environments using Jenkins/CI tool.  • Responsible for a Scrum team working as Technical Project Manager working in an Agile environment.  • Responsible for running daily standups, grooming sessions, sprint retrospective and sprint planning for a team of 6 engineers and 2 QA. Work using JIRA tool to manage team backlog and daily tasks.    • Build up and maintain more than 30 React components for the new OneAmex platform, tracking production traffic, production logs and code maintenance.  • Connect with product owners to gather more information on business rules, help them to clean up rules for better understanding from engineers. Engineer II American Express September 2015 to September 2015 September de 2017  UI Developer / Technical Project Manager  • Involved in new projects for American Express using Technologies as: ReactJS, Redux, NodeJS.  • Built components using ReactJS and NodeJS for MYCA American Express website.  • Responsible and part of the Engineering team that redesign a SPA application for Card members in American Express, creating components with React and in-house platform built with ReactJS, REST services, javascript apis. Also used library for application styling using CSS3, SASS and responsive design technologies using a base javascript.  • Responsible for every new component developed to cover a % of Unit Test using technologies such as JEST, Mocha and Chai libraries.  • Responsible for deployments of repositories/components to different environments using Jenkins/CI tool.  • Responsible for a Scrum team working as Technical Project Manager working in an Agile environment.  • Responsible for running daily standups, grooming sessions, sprint retrospective and sprint planning for a team of 6 engineers and 2 QA. Work using JIRA tool to manage team backlog and daily tasks.  • Build up and maintain more than 30 React components for the new OneAmex platform, tracking production traffic, production logs and code maintenance.  • Connect with product owners to gather more information on business rules, help them to clean up rules for better understanding from engineers. Java UI Developer IGATE November 2014 to November 2014 - September de 2015  • Working as a contractor for Chubb Insurance  • Developing internal applications using Java, XML, JSF 2.0, Servlets  • Developing front-end applications using DOJO, Javascript, HTML 5, CSS 3, using responsive design to make every application compatible with mobile. Java Developer Systems USA January 2013 to October 2014 • Working on the Virginia Case Management System Department of Social Services (Health Care Eligibility  • Application) and CommonHelp (FrontEnd system for Virginia Citizens) as part of Obama Health care  • project.  • Java Coding, Unit Test scenarios, Working with use cases,  • Defect fixing in environments Integration, QA and Production.  • Coding UI using JSP, Javascript, Ajax technologies from the use cases received from Project Managers    Technologies: J2EE, Web Services, JSP, EJB 2.1, Oracle 11g, Web Sphere Application Server 7.0, Rational Application Developer, Clear-Case, Clear-Quest. Java Developer Softtek January 2011 to December 2012 • Consultant Engineer working with GE client remotely.  • Worked on applications based on Java technologies and Oracle Database.  • Involved on Software Documentation for new products or products updates.  • Involved with remote teams to deliver Software Releases thru different environments.  • Technical Project Manager role for 1 year. Web Developer October 2010 to December 2011 Engineer involved in a school application to manage all company information, teachers and classes.  Worked using PHP, AJAX and Javascript technologies. Web Developer November 2009 to October 2010 Hardware, Software and connection support. Make the respective documentation to keep as historical of the existing system. Develop the assigned tasks and flows described by the application owner Education Bachelor in Systems Engineer Instituto Tecnológico y de Estudios Superiores de Occidente 2004 to 2010