Java Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Full Stack Developer - Eli Lilly Indianapolis, IN • Java Full stack developer with 8+ years of experience in full software development life cycle including requirement analysis, design, coding, testing, debugging and maintenance.  • Extensive experience in developing JAVA based applications using JAVA, JEE, JDBC, EJB, Servlets, JSP, JSF, JMS and Web services.  • Expertise in developing Micro services using Spring Boot and Node JS to build more physically separated modular applications which will improve scalability, Availability, Agility of application.  • Proficient in implementation of spring frameworks like Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring REST, Spring AOP, Spring transaction Management, Spring Data, Spring DAO, Spring Batch, Spring Security and Spring Boot.  • Having Good experience in developing and migrating existing application into cloud based platforms like Amazon Web Services (AWS) and Pivotal Cloud Foundry.  • Experience in using various JavaScript Web application related libraries such as Node Js, Backbone.js, Require.js, Knockout, Angular.js, React.js, JQuery UI and Google Web Toolkit.  • Having extensive work experience with Java 1.7 and 1.8 (JDK, JRE), J2EE, JSP, JavaScript, and Hibernate, Spring, Struts MVC.  • Strong experience using frameworks like JSP, EJB, Java Persistence API, JNDI, JMS, Struts, JSF in developing scalable, reliable, efficient web and enterprise applications.  • Good experience in developing SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) and Microservices architecture using J2EE Web Services based on Restful (JAX-RS), SOAP (JAX-WS), JAX-RPC and JAXR ( Java API for XML Registries) using frameworks like Apache CXF, Jersey, Axis and Spring framework, NodeJS (Express JS & Hapi JS).  • Hands on Experience in working with Databases MYSQL, Oracle 10g/11g, SQL-Server, DB2 and NoSQL (MongoDB, Cassandra) Dynamo DB, Couch DB.  • Expertise in ORM tools Hibernate 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, iBatis, with JPA specifications, HQL, Caching, ACID transaction, Locking and implemented ODM framework like Mongoose for mapping MongoDB.  • Expertise in creating Databases, Tables, Stored Procedure, DDL/DML Triggers, Views, User defined data types (UDT), Cursors, Functions, data dictionaries, and maintaining data integrity and Indexes using SQL.  • Good knowledge in writing stored procedures, Packages and functions using SQL & PL/SQL and good at advance PL/SQL topics like Triggers, Collections.  • Experienced in developing front end applications using HTML4/5, XHTML, DHTML, CSS2/3(using SASS and LESS), Bootstrap, Angular JS, Angular2, and developing dynamic web pages.  • Good Understanding of Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM Functions. Design and implement a Web based content management utilizing XML, JAXB, DOM, XSLT, XPath, and JavaScript for data generation and presentation with JSF.  • Expertise in latest version of object oriented JavaScript Libraries like Angular JS, Ember JS, Backbone JS, React JS, Bootstrap and Responsive Design.  • Strong experience in developing Single Page Application (SPA), using MEAN (Mongo, Express, and Angular) stack.  • Experience in integration tools like Spring Integration, Apache CXF, Apache Kafka and Apache Camel to integrate the enterprise application technologies with existing JVM environment.  • Expertise in unit-testing with tools like JUnit, Mockito, Spock, TestNg and Integration testing tools like Selenium Web Driver, Cucumber (Behavior Driven Development testing).  • Experience in using Drools rules engine for defining business rules and Validations.  • Experience with testing tools like Selenium and build tool like Jenkins.  • Experience in using various Amazon Web Services (AWS) like EC2 for virtual servers, S3 and Glacier for storing objects, Elastic Beanstalk, Elastic Cache and Dynamo DB for Elastic load balancing, storing data Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Full Stack Developer Eli Lilly - Indianapolis, IN January 2018 to Present Description: Eli Lilly and Company is a global pharmaceutical company headquartered in Indianapolis, Indiana. Eli Lilly, a pharmaceutical chemist and veteran of the American Civil War, after whom the company was named.    Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in Analysis, Design, Development, System Testing and User Acceptance Testing. Successfully followed agile methodology in the Scrum Cycle model.  • Involved in the development using Java/J2EE Technologies, Web Services and Hibernate ORM Framework.  • Designed and developed Microservices using REST framework and Spring Boot and used Bootstrap along with AngularJS in creating the Application.  • Worked in all the modules of the application which involved front-end presentation logic developed using, JSP and Java Script, Middleware layer using Servlet and Controllers, Business objects developed using Page Beans and data access layer using iBatis and Hibernate framework.  • Used NodeJS for doing non-blocking design operation for server side code and Angular.js framework in developing various UI components.  • Used Java8 features in developing the code like Lambda expressions, creating resource classes, fetching documents from database.  • Worked on Components, Directives, Services, Forms, Http Access, Authentication, optimizing an internal application using Angular 2 with Modules and Offline Compilation.  • Implemented features such as routing, data binding, data updates without a page refresh using Angular 2.  • Used Angular 2 Http services for asynchronous validations for the input fields of the forms with the data existed in the database.  • Developed the responsive UI web pages using XHTML, jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Angular JS 2, JavaScript, node JS and has worked with Angular JS filters in expressions and directives to filter data in the UI.  • Extensively used MVC, Factory, Delegate and Singleton design patterns.  • Used spring framework including spring core/IoC, Spring Web, Spring Security and implement the authentication, authorization, and access-control features by using Spring Security.  • Used React JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  • Used Spring Inversion of Control (IOC) for injecting the beans and reduced the coupling between the classes and implemented the Model View Controller using Spring MVC.  • Implemented the application using Spring Boot Framework and handled the security using Spring Security.  • Microservices have been built using spring boot, Netflix OSS, spring cloud and deploying to AWS Cloud.  • Experienced in object oriented analysis, design and application development using JAVA, J2EE, XML,JSON,RAML,JMS, BRMS, NoSQL technologies  • Implemented code according to create AngularJS Controller, which isolate scopes perform operations.  • Responsible for maintaining and expanding AWS (Cloud Services) infrastructure using AWS Stack especially worked with database setup and maintenance on AWS EC2.  • Wrote custom JavaScript utilizing jQuery to enhance theme, setup server to handle more number of page requests.  • Implemented REST based web services using JAX-RS annotations, Jersey provider and consumed using HTTP services from angular JS modules.  • Used Bootstrap and Angular JS, React.js and Node.js in effective web design.  • Used Angular2.0 HTTP Module to make API calls and worked with the observables.  • Developed Single page applications and Custom Directives using Angular 2.0.  • Implemented Routing, Imperative Routing and guards with the help of Angular2.0 route module.  • Responsible for setting up AngularJS framework for UI development.  • Involved in deployment of the application at various environments (Development, QA Testing, Staging, and Production).  • Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud Microservices and develop spring based application with very less configuration.  • Created Jenkins jobs and pipelines and integrated python scripts to communicate to AWS resources.  • Used spring framework to provide loose coupling between different application modules.  • Developed Hibernate with Spring Integration as the data abstraction to interact with the database of MongoDB.  • Involved extensively in Code Reviews, Unit testing and Process Improvements.  • Used Micro services to communicate using synchronous protocols HTTP and REST for implementing SOA.  • Worked with NoSQL database Mongo DB and worked with it to perform many different operations.  • Involved in writing Unit test cases for unit testing using Junit.  • Used Cassandra for achieving denormalization through features like collections.    Environment: J2EE, Java 1.8, UDB , Spring framework, Sybase, Spring MVC, Hibernate, JSP, AJAX, SOA, Web Services, Microservices, XML, Ext JS, NodeJS, JQuery, JavaScript, IBM RAD 9.1, WebSphere 8.5, Agile Methodology, Design Patterns, Clear Case, Apache Maven, Angular JS, Apache Cassandra, MongoDB, JUnit, Html, Unit, XSLT, ReactJS, HTML/DHTML, JENKINS, Spark, Kafka. Fullstack Java Developer Edward Jones St. Louis MO - St. Louis, MO March 2016 to December 2017 Description: Edward D. Jones Sr. establishes Edward D. Jones & Co., determined that his company will treat associates as partners in the business and treat clients fairly by offering appropriate, quality investments.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Design, Development and Support phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Used AGILE methodology and participated in SCRUM meetings.  • Designed and implemented the user interface using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and Angular JS.  • Developed Hibernate mapping files using different mapping strategies such as table per class hierarchy and also used Hibernate Persistence Strategy to interact with database.  • Used Java8 features in developing the code like Lambda expressions, creating resource classes, fetching documents from database.  • Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly.  • Developed a tool to retrieve and send data to third party service provider this feature was implemented using REST  • Created Buckets in AWS and stored files. Enabled Versioning and security for files stored  • Used RESTFUL client to interact with the services by providing the RESTFUL URL mapping  • Built MAVEN scripts for automated deployment and for the build operation of the entire application.  • Deployed the application in WebSphere Application Server 6.0.1 and Configured JMS in the WebSphere application server to send messages on the queue.  • Spring Controllers were used with Angular JS to route the control to desired Java services.  • Implemented scripting with Ajax and XML to dynamically refresh the page contents.  • Developed Controller for request, response paradigm by Spring Controllers using Spring-MVC. Used JSON as response type in REST services.  • Involved with bug fixing on functionality, performance and designing issues with JavaScript, JQuery, HTML5, CSS3 and Angular JS.  • Developed core Java programs for all business rules and workflows using spring framework.  • Designed and developed Restful service interface using Spring MVC to the underlying customer event API. Involved in building Restful Web services using JAX-RSAPI.  • Worked on Cloud implementation by installing, building and deploying applications using Cloud Foundry and using AWS.  • Developed Hibernate with Spring Integration as the data abstraction to interact with the database of MongoDB.  • Synchronize data with server using SASS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, and Angular.js.  • Experienced in build tools like Ant, Maven, Gradle and using them with continuous integration tools like Jenkins to create and publish application artifacts  • Application development experience using Multithreading, Collection framework and Core Java, spring, Hibernate, Sql server.  • Used ReactJS in components like JSX, creating React components, Virtual components etc.  • Created custom Plugins, templates, and functions for Angular JS application.  • AWS EC2 instances were configured in developing and QA environments with NodeJS  • Implemented Hibernate for data persistence and management.  • Performed unit testing using JUnit  • Analyzed and fixed issues related to REST Web services and Application responses.    Environment: Java 8, Java 1.7, J2EE, Spring Framework 4.0, Hibernate, AJAX, Oracle 11g, Web Services, Agile, REST, XML, SOA, WebSphere, JavaScript, Angular JS, NodeJS, Bootstrap, JQuery, JBOSS, JUnit, Grunt, GITHub, SQL, Angular2.0, MongoDB ,ReactJS, JMS, HTML5, JSP, Apache Camel ,CVS, CSS, MVC, Maven and SVN. Java Full Stack Developer AAMC Washington DC - Washington, DC January 2015 to February 2016 Description: Founded in 1876 and based in Washington, D.C., the AAMC (Association of American Medical Colleges) is a not-for-profit association dedicated to transforming health care through innovative medical education, cutting-edge patient care, and groundbreaking medical research.    Responsibilities:  • Analyze requirements with team, write High Level design documents, System Use Case, analyze risk factors.  • Creating custom, general use modules and components which extend the elements and modules of core AngularJS.  • Developed REST Web services to make web service calls simple and easy for the client to access it with the help of standard HTTP URIs.  • Followed agile methodology during complete SDLC process.  • Participated Agile/Scrum development and deployment teams  • Used Spring Framework 4.1 for the application development.  • Responsible for Web UI development in JavaScript using jQuery, AngularJS, and AJAX  • Implementing JSP Standard Tag Libraries (JSTL) along with Expression Language (EL).  • Developed DAOs using JPA, hibernate persistence API for the database operations to interact with Oracle Database.  • Developed web service client using Spring Framework and REST HTTP protocol to get customer credentials and information.  • Used spring for bean instantiation, annotations, controllers, request mapping to handle the web service request and response.  • Used JAXB for marshalling and unmarshalling of work order, billing XML documents, and JAXP for processing.  • Implemented Spring Boot Micro Services to divide the application into various sub modules.  • Used micro-services architecture with spring based services to integrate user libraries in the application.  • Exported SQL data in to Elastic search to allow much faster and scalable user searches from the database.  • Integrated configured Camel with ActiveMQ to use it as bus.  • Designed and developed necessary PL/SQL for the database operations as needed.  • Involved in deployment of the application at various environments (Development, QA Testing, Staging, and Production).  • Batch jobs were automated using the Quartz scheduler.  • Used Maven for the project management like build, install.  • Involved extensively in Code Reviews, Unit testing and Process Improvements.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, MVC, Spring Batch, HTML, CSS, XML, WebSphere, Restful Web Service, JIRA, SQL Server, SQL, Dynamic SQL, PL/SQL, JSP, Servlets, Jasper reports, JavaScript, JSON, WebLogic, SQL Server, JUnit, ETL, Maven, Eclipse. Java Developer Raymond James - Saint Petersburg, FL January 2012 to December 2014 Description: Raymond James Financial is an American multinational independent investment bank and financial services company providing financial services to individuals, corporations and municipalities through its subsidiary companies that engage primarily in investment and financial planning, in addition to investment banking and asset management.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in database modeling applying the normalization rules  • Involved in creating AJAX calls using Angular JS to handle data operations including ordering and filtering.  • Created POC for Spring Batch for running batch jobs.  • Worked on backend logic using Servlets, EJB, Hibernate and JDBC.  • Developed page specific elements, handlers, web beans, view helper classes, JSP pages & fragments by using design patterns and java standards  • Written JQuery Validations for the User Front-ends.  • Maintenance of data in different Oracle Database and environments using TOAD.  • Worked on Hibernate object/relational mapping according to database schema.  • Effective using in Clear case and clear quest for version control and defect tracking.  • Analyzed, designed, validated the business logic of the system and implemented the application  • Developed business services using EJB's and used SOAP API.  • Translated functional requirements into technical design by gathering the user stories.  • Developed order history and order status of all the Authorized agent's specific bonds  • Developed Code using Struts framework, based on the MVC design pattern  • Developed the presentation layer using Struts Tag Libraries  • Developed the application with iterative methodology, recapturing the existing code and writing a new code for most of the modules  • Involved in debugging the product using JIRA Bug Tracking  • Implemented multiple high-performance MongoDB replica sets on EC2 with robust reliability.  • Deployed the application on to WebSphere application server.  • Extensively used and implemented all the swing components in the application.  • Developed Search Tool for the organization to display reports agent wise, month wise, weekly.  • Involved in developing the UI pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery and AJAX.  • Developed servlets for generating reports in PDF format.    Environment: J2EE 1.4, Eclipse, Web Sphere Application Server, JSP, Servlet, HTML, JUnit, JavaScript, CSS, EJB, Hibernate, Struts, XML, JAXP, CVS, JAX-RPC, Swing, AXIS, SOAP, TOAD, AJAX, Log4J, UNIX, Linux, SOA. Java Developer VSmart Minds Team Solutions Pvt. Ltd June 2010 to December 2011 Responsibilities:  • Using OOAD Technology classes are designed in UML with the help of Rational Rose tool.  • Developed UI using HTML, CSS, AJAX, jQuery, and JSP, and developed Business Logic and Interfacing components using Business Objects, XML, and JDBC.  • Involved in design of application framework using J2EE guidelines and different J2EE design patterns and Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) methodologies.  • Implemented the Graphic User Interface GUI by coding in HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, and jQuery UI.  • Extensively worked on Spring Bean Wiring, Spring DAO and Spring AOP modules.  • Involved in Test Driven Development by writing JUnit test case in the coding part of Java method.  • Used STS (SPRING Tool Suite) as software development platform for developing the whole application.  • Strong implementations of data persistency using Hibernate and Spring Framework.  • Wrote stored procedures, complex queries using PL/SQL to extract data from the database, delete data and reload data on Oracle DB.  • Used Maven, Tomcat and Jenkins to automate the build and deployment process.    Environment: JDK, JSP, Servlets, Struts, JDBC, EJB, JMS, Spring, Hibernate, AJAX, Oracle, XML, XSLT, HTML, Linux, CSS, WebLogic, UML, Eclipse, PL/SQL, JUnit, Jenkins, Apache Ant, and CVS. Education Bachelor's