Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - J.B. Hunt Transport Services, Inc • 7+ years of experience in complete software development life cycle (SDLC) phases, Requirement Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Deployment and Maintenance of Client Server & Multi-tier applications using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Expertise in Java/J2EE and Web Application design and development using JSP, Servlets, EJB, JMS, JDBC, Web Services, AJAX, Spring, Struts 1.3, Tiles, Hibernate3.0.  • Experience with domains as Retail, Taxation, Insurance and Pharmaceuticals.  • Strong Programming Experience in developing User Interfaces.  • Extensive Experience in ORACLE, DB2, SQL/ PLSQL and knowledge of SQL Server.  • Extensive experience in spring framework and Struts Frame Work.  • Application development experience using multithreading, Serialization, Externalization,Collection framework, Generics and Core JAVA.  • Extensive experience in Web Services design development and deployment using WSDL, SOAP, UDDI, JAXP, JAXB, SAX, DOM, XSLT and knowledge of Apache AXIS.  • Used JavaScript for client side validations and implemented AJAX with JavaScript for reducing data transfer overhead between user and server.  • Extensive experience in Maven, Ant tools for deployment and customizing WAR/ JAR file management for web applications..  • Extensive Experience on Jquery.  • Experience in various J2EE Frameworks like JSF, icefaces, JAXB, AJAX, GWT, DOJO.  • Extensive Experience on shell scripting.  • Implemented Business services layer using Business Delegate, Service Locater patterns and DAO pattern for wrapping data access logic.  • Extensive experience in testing on multiple operating systems including UNIX, Sun Solaris, and Windows. Experience in developing crystal reports.  • Valuable Team Player with Mentor Skills, Ability to learn quickly and to correctly apply new tools and technology.  • Played a major role in successfully completing my projects and effectively managing/coordinating  With team members, delivering in fast paced& highly competitive environments.  • Good knowledge in Core java, Collection framework. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer J.B. Hunt Transport Services, Inc July 2014 to Present J.B. Hunt Transport Services, Inc., one of the largest transportation logistics companies in North America, provides safe and reliable transportation services to a diverse group of customers throughout the continental United States, Canada and Mexico and also provide customized freight movement, revenue equipment, labor and systems services that are tailored to meet individual customers' requirements and typically involve long-term contracts.  Responsibilities:    • Application is implemented using agile methodology where there is daily SCRUM meetings to understand the status and resolve any issues.  • Involved in all phases of the project, requirement analysis, design, coding and Unit testing.  • Worked with the Business Analysts to analyze the required functionality and proposed solution.  • Implemented Spring ORM with JDBC taking advantage of Java6 features like annotations, generic collections.  • Designed the user interface of the application using HTML5, CSS3, Java Server Faces 2.0 (JSF 2.0), JSP, JSTL, JavaScript.  • The enhancement generically comprised of designing new pages in XHTML, coding the underlying business functionalities (using JSF, EJB 3.0 with annotations and Oracle), enhancing existing features, fixing existing bugs (both design and functionality related).  • Implemented EJBs Session beans for business logic.  • I have worked in DAO layer of the application, written java code to access hibernate session factory using spring hibernate template, Hibernate Search Quires and written search, persistence, deletion for the persistence objects.  • Worked within SOA based enterprise framework to build web services.  • Taken care of multi threading in back end java beans.  • Coordination with Developers and QA Testing Team regarding Testing issues like setting up builds, issuing tickets, setting up Testing and Development Environment.  • Used Object Oriented Analysis (OOA) and Object Oriented Design (OOD) techniques using Unified Modeling Language (UML) and Rational Rose  • good at Object-Oriented Analysis and Design, Service-oriented architecture (SOA).  • Used Maven Build tool.  • Wrote JUnit test cases for unit, integration, and functional tests, run automatically by Hudson/Jenkins in the builds triggered by each push to Git.  • Wrote GWT code to create presentation layer using GWT widgets and event handlers.  • Designed and developed a number of RESTFUL web services that support JSON for other developers to access to speed up development Unit testing, debugging and set test conditions based on code specifications. Perform peer code reviews and performance enhancements.  • Generated WSDL for the integration of classes and Databases.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Web services, Agile Methodology, Spring 3.x, Hibernate, JSP, HTML, Oracle10g, Windows 7, GWT, Unix, Ajax, JQuery, JavaScript, CSS, RAD, XML, XSLT , Web Sphere Application server, CVS, IntelliJ. Java/J2EE & Web Developer Western Computers Services IncSandy, Utah October 2012 to June 2014 Description: Western computer (WCSI) started the commercial new business platform (NBP) initiative to enhance and consolidate the commercial underwriting systems used by MWFB and WCIC. Currently there are two AS/400 applications for Commercial lines running on the two different AS/400 servers. These applications are developed in house and called Wyoming 'MW' and Idaho 'WC' respectively.  The aim of the project is to develop Resource Action Management tool which is available to assist with the implementation of Resource Actions in the U.S. This is a Tool which will be basically used by the Workforce Management Personnel. Tool functionality varies based on a user's role. Some users will have view access only. Other users will have both view access and update capability. The tool is an intranet Web Application and the site help provides instructions for using the tool, resource action process steps, and user roles.    Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile Methodology worked in Sprints of 15 days and handle Modules like Billing , ticketing  • Thoroughly involved in client side Requirements collection & Analysis.  • Detailed Design and Coding using Core Java and other J2EEtechnologies  • Analysis &Design with UML and Rational Rose.  • Designed database and involved in developing DDL Scripts  • Used Spring ORM to integrate Spring Framework with hibernate and JPA.  • Integrated Hibernate and Spring, using LocalSessionFactoryBean and AnnotationSessionFactoryBean  • Used Spring AOP to capture performance statistics of business logic and DAO layer methods  • Developed portal screens using JSP and Spring MVC framework.  • Performed disk administration using LVM, Linux Volume Manager (LVM).  • Hands on experience in Software Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation of Enterprise applications using Java/J2EE on Windows, Linux, UNIX platforms.  • Developed Restful Controllers using Spring MVC and JSON that increased business for them.  • Developed the application using Spring Framework and Struts that uses Model View Controller (MVC) architecture.  • Worked as a System Administrator for UNIX and Linux servers  • Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS.  • Developed form validations using Struts validate framework.  • Designed and develop web based UI application using Struts tiles frame work and used JSTL, Ajax, CSS, Jquery for the presentation layer.  • Wrote SQL scripts for modifying the existing schemas and introducing the new features in the existing schemas of DB2. Used Hibernate in persistence layer and written hibernate mapping files and Named Queries.  • Effectively prepared for and organized technical inspections to review code and design models with peers and software architects.  • Worked with JAXB, SAXP and XML Schema for exporting data into XML format and importing data from XML format to data base.  • Used log4j for logging application level info for debugging purpose.  • Responsible for initializing some basic components of RESTeasy.  • Implemented an automated functional testing suite and increased test coverage from 20% to nearly 80%. Used Mockito for tests and Jenkins for CI.  • Implemented mailing service using Java Mail.  • Developed ANT scripts and developed builds using Apache ANT.  • Deployed the application on the WAS Application Server.  • Used SVN for source code version control.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Eclipse, Tiles framework, Hibernate, Service Locater Pattern, JSP, JNDI, Java Mail, SVN, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, JAXB, JAXP, XML Schema(XST) , EJB 2.0 Session beans , ANT, JavaScript , JMS, Rational Rose , Web Sphere Application Server, DB2, UNIX. Java/J2EE Developer Hexaware - Mumbai, Maharashtra January 2012 to September 2012 Description Options Accounting Systems was an implementation of online account management system that provides secure online access to customer accounts and keeps track of daily account activity like withdrawals, payments, and trades. The application also provides customers with online account transfers.    Responsibilities:  * Responsible for design, development, application architecture, use cases, flowcharts, application flow, prototypes, proof concept of sample codes  * Responsible for writing detailed design specification document and implementing all business rules  * Involved in the design and development of presentation and web layers based on MVC Architecture (Model-View-Controller)  * A persistence layer using JPA over Hibernate on top of a new schema.  * Developed the front-end using both Core Java (for non-UI and MDB poller specific tasks) as well as Java Swing  * Used Struts MVC layer.  * Used Jquery and CSS for the UI Development  * Implemented Asynchronous and UI effects using AJAX and Jquery  * Involved in developing interfaces for the CSM in order to invoke the various business partners using XML, XSLT  * Used Web Services in order to get the data from third parties  * Used JAX_WS for serialization and deserialization of Java objects and XML.  * Used servlets for writing our business logic.  * Used Normal POJO's.  * For Persistence layer we just write logic which will connect to our database and we add jars.  * Testing and deploying the full application on Web Logic application server  * Used Eclipse to Develop the Applications  * Involved in unit testing, integration testing  * Used JUNIT testing framework for Unit testing  Environment: Java, Servlets, JSP, JSF, HTML, JavaScript, Struts MVC, Oracle 8i, Eclipse, JDBC, XML, SOAP, Web Logic 8.1, CSS, UML, JUNIT. Java/J2EE Developer SBI Bank - Chennai, Tamil Nadu July 2010 to December 2011 Description:: The Customer Service Management project is to provide the front end process to the wireless billing system, thereby enhancing the performance of the billing system. CSM allows the user to enter changes to the coverage/taxing address, physical home/primary address, and/or mailing/billing address. The user also can enter changes to contact information, such as telephone number, email address, and contact name. If the coverage/taxing address are changing, the system will determine whether the new address is in a different CSA and will guide the user through the steps necessary to complete a CSA change.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in client requirement gathering, analysis& application design.  • Used UML to draw use case diagrams, class& sequence diagrams.  • Developed presentation layer using JavaScript, HTML and CSS.  • Implemented client side data validations using JavaScript.  • Implemented server side data validations using Java Beans.  • Implemented views using JSP & JSTL1.0.  • Implemented code MVC2 framework using JSP's JavaBeans & Servlets.  • Used Apache Tomcat.  • Used Aqua Data Studio for database query and administration.  • Used Jquery on front-end.  • Used simple XML to build/process xml documents.  • Developed Business Logic using Session Beans.  • Implemented Entity Beans for Object Relational mapping.  • Implemented Service Locater Pattern using local caching.  • Worked with collections.  • Implemented Session Facade Pattern using Session and Entity Beans  • Developed message driven beans to listen to JMS.  • Performed application level logging using log4j for debugging purpose.  • Involved in fine tuning of application.  • Thoroughly involved in testing phase and implemented test cases using Junit.  • Involved in the development of Entity Relationship Diagrams using Rational Data Modeler.    Environnent: Java SDK 1.4, Entity Bean, Session Bean, JSP, Servlet, JSTL1.0, CVS, JavaScript, and Aqua Data Studio, SQL, PL/SQL, Triggers, Cursors, Stored Procedures, JBOSSv3.0, Eclipse 2.1, Solaris Flavor UNIX. Java/J2EE Developer DBS Bank - Chennai, Tamil Nadu May 2008 to June 2010 Description: INTELLECT is a Wealth Management Product and this project was developed for DBS Bank. Wealth management is an investment advisory discipline that incorporates financial planning, investment portfolio management & a number of aggregated financial services. Intellect is a modern & proven enterprise platform (Banking Software) that meets needs of retail, corporate & investment banking. It enables boundary less banking across business units, geographies & technologies. I was responsible for development & testing of application.    Responsabilités:  • Involved in client requirement gathering, analysis& application design.  • Used UML to draw use case diagrams, class& sequence diagrams.  • Implemented client side data validations using JavaScript.  • Involved in requirements gathering, analysis and design. Adapted Water fall model from specification, Analysis, Design, System integration, Testing, Deployment and Maintenance  • Responsible for Development, Implementation and Testing of the complete business solution  • Developed use cases and created UML diagrams like class diagrams, sequence diagrams to represent the overall architecture. Developed User Interface using Struts JSTL and Tiles framework  • Used Jquery and CSS for the UI Development.  • Used Normal POJO's.  • Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural Pattern using Struts Framework including JSP, Servlets, EJB, Form Bean and Action classes.  • Developed a set of Action classes using Struts for handling business logic and Hibernate API for data logic. Designed related tables in the database using ER diagrams. Designed and developed presentation layer using JSP, HTML and JavaScript. Applied J2EE design patterns namely, DAO, Business Service and Singleton. Extensively used XML throughout modules. Achieved data persistence using Hibernate  • Configured the Web logic application server. Tested JSPs, Servlets and Business Objects on WSAD test environment. Involved in resolving tickets and refactoring of other existing systems  • Worked with Database Administrators to create and implement Oracle stored procedures, triggers  • Involved in Unit, System and Integration testing of the application.  • • Used JUNIT testing framework for Unit testing.    Environnent: Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Struts, JSTL, Tiles, Hibernate, EJB 2, Oracle 9i, XML, UML, Eclipse 3.0.1, Web Logic 8.1, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Windows 2000 Education Bachelors in Computer Science Acharya Nagarjuna University 2008 Additional Information Software Skills:    Languages Java and J2EE  Technologies  JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, Java Beans, MVC, Struts, EJB, JSF, JMS, SOA, SOAP, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, CSS 3, XML and HTML 5 ,JSON , BACKBONE.JS    Development Approach Waterfall and Agile  Design Patterns  Core J2EE patterns (MVC, Value Object, Session Facade, Composite Entity, Service Locator, Data Access Object and Singleton)    Testing Tools JUnit3.8/4.0 and Test Driven Development (TDD)  Defect Tracking Tools HP Quality Center  Application/Web Servers Apache Tomcat 6.0, IBM Web Sphere 6.0, BEA Web Logic 8.1, 9.2, 10x and Red Hat JBoss 4.2.2  IDE Eclipse 3.2, 3.3, 3.5, My Eclipse 6.0, IBM Rational Application Developer 6.0, 7.0 and Net Beans IDE  Message Oriented Middleware Apache Active MQ, IBM MQ Series/Web Sphere MQ.  Version Controls CVS, SVN and Rational Clear Case  Cache Implementations Eh cache, and JBoss Tree Cache  Frameworks Struts, Spring, JSF, and Hibernate  Design Technologies OOAD, IBM Rational Rose, MS Visio and UML  Architecture Service Oriented Architecture  Web Service Frameworks Apache Axis  Web Service Protocols SOAP, REST, JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, JAXB, WSDL and UDDI  Build Tools Ant and Maven  Database IBM DB2, Oracle 9i/10g/11g, SQL Server and MySQL, PL/SQL  Processes SDLC and Rational Unified Process (RUP)  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP, HTTPS, TELNET, FTP and LDAP  Operating Systems All Version of Microsoft Windows, UNIX and LINUX  Logging Tool Log4J