Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - Cisco San Jose, CA • 7 years of experience in analysis, design, development and implementation of web based, Client/Server and n-tier distributed applications using software development methodologies / frameworks like SDLC, OOAD, RUP, TDD and AGILE  • 7 years of experience in web application development, testing and deployment using IBM WSAD 5.x, RAD 6.0/7.0, Eclipse 3.x on Web Sphere Application Server 5.x/6.x.  • Expertise in various JAVA/J2EE technologies such as JSP 2.0, Servlets 2.x, EJB 2.1/3.0, Struts 1.2/2.0, Hibernate 3.0/4.0 ORM, Spring 2.0/3.0/4.0, JDBC, JNDI, JTA and Web Services  • Extensively worked with Unified Modeling Tools (UML) in designing Use Cases, Activity flow diagram, Class diagrams, Sequence and Object Diagrams using Rational Rose, MS-Visio  • Expertise in application development using different frameworks including Struts, Hibernate, Springs and Java Data Objects with GUI plug-ins like Tiles Framework, validation plug-ins like Validator Framework  • Expertise in developing Java Beans and used Custom Tag libraries for embedding dynamic code into JSP pages  • Experience in using design patterns like Singleton, MVC, Business Delegate, Session Facade, Factory, DTO, DAO, Composite View, Adapter, Value Object, proxy, and FrontController in the development of Multi-tier Distributed Enterprise Applications  • Used Java Messaging Service (JMS) for reliable exchange of information across applications  • Proficient in various Web based technologies like HTML, DHTML, XML, XSL Javascript, AngularJS and AJAX.  • Experience in implementing Service Oriented Architectures (SOA) using XML based Web Services (SOAP/ WSDL) using AXIS  • Experience in writing XML DTD and Schema, validating XML documents and parsing XML documents using parsers like SAX, DOM via Xerces/Xalan, JAXB and browser display using XSL technology  • Expertise in unit testing using JUNIT and delivering mock test cases in Struts  • Experience in coding ANT SCRIPTS for delivering the working enterprise application  • Experience in error logging and debugging using Log4J  • Strong experience in creating/reviewing of data models that are created in RDBMS like Oracle, DB2 databases  • Strong Experience in writing Stored Procedures, Functions, Views and Triggers  • Exposure to other application server WebLogic Server, JBOSS 3.2/4.0 and web server Apache Tomcat 5.0/5.5  • Strong experience in using various tools like SQL IDEs TOAD, Oracle SQL Developer and XML validations using Altova XML Spy, Struts Console  • Experience in working with operating systems like Windows 98/NT/2000/XP, UNIX  • Experience working with versioning tools like CVS, Clear Case and Git  • Possess excellent communication and analytical skills along with a can-do attitude Work Experience Full Stack Developer Cisco - San Jose, CA March 2019 to Present Project: OPL Workspace    Description: OPL Workplace user interface is a support activity enabler around OPL support team. It is an information hub for OPL as well as provide functionalities like modification, cancellation and adding records.    • Designed and developed Support UI using React.js and Redux.  • Implement the backend API's using Node.js and Express.js.  • Designed the User Interface of Application using JavaSript, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3.  • Used Docker to run both front end and backend apps on Containers.  • Integrate the Spring Boot Microservices with node app and implement the logging for communication between the services.  • Tested the backend end points using Mocha and Chai.  Environment: Node, Express, Java 1.8, J2EE, Spring 4.3, Jenkins, JSON, Docker, Web Services, Agile, MongoDB, Kubernetes, Mocha and Chai, Git Senior Java Developer Carson City, NV July 2018 to March 2019 Project: SilverFlume    Description: Nevada Secretary of State's SilverFlume is a valuable tool to start and expand businesses, guiding you through the processes of entity formation, State Business Licensing, Workers' Compensation, Taxation registration and Sales and Use Tax permitting by Nevada location.    • Designed and developed Restful API's for SilverFlume Application.  • Extensively worked on technical solutions for integration of SilverFlume and Cenuity Applications.  • Redesiged the User Interface of Application using JavaSript, JQuery, Bootstrap, HTML5, XML and CSS3.  • Used Hiberante in persistence layer to connect application to database.  • Worked on JMS 5.1 for sending data for shopping cart transactions in terms of XML Objects.  Environment: Java 1.8, J2EE, Spring 4.3, Oracle, Jenkins, JSON, XML, XSL,XSLT, JAX-RS, Apache Tomcat, Web Services, Maven , Agile, UML, JUnit, Git & JIRA Senior Java Developer Kaiser Permanente - Pleasanton, CA March 2018 to July 2018 Project: Hawaii Miscellaneous    Description: Hawaii miscellaneous is a payment application to pay the miscellaneous items at the Kaiser Permanente facilities at the state of Hawaii. Application supports different types of payment methods for payment like debit, credit card using third party Payment mate interface.    • Developed and maintained Restful web services with Spring framework.  • Lead the frontend development team using Angular, Bootstrap, HTML5 and CSS3 for web application.  • Developed the backend using DAO design pattern and Spring JdbcTemplate.  • Developed JUnit test cases for all the developed modules.  Environment: Java 1.8, J2EE, Spring, Oracle, Jenkins, JSON, XML, Restful Webservices, Apache Tomcat, Agile, JUnit, Git Sr. Software Engineer Sambasafety - Rancho Cordova, CA November 2016 to February 2018 Project: Electronic Vehicle Registration    Description: SambaSafety's Electronic Vehicle Registration (EVR) service saves your clients a trip to the DMV, and improves your customer retention by offering a broader range of services. Participation in the program allows users to process vehicle registration services including transfers, renewals, junk and salvage, and issue stickers directly.    • Implemented the application using Agile development methodology.  • Developed presentation layer with Spring MVC, AJAX, JavaSript, JQuery, JSON, HTML5, XML and CSS3.  • Implemented UI of shipping module using React.js and Bootstrap.  • Created and enhanced SQL queries, SQL procedure methods for Microsoft SQL Server.  • Participating in Sprint planning to identify what tasks to be created to develop a specific story.  • Wrote JUnit test cases for unit, integration, and functional tests.  • Implemented VIN decode feature by using Spring restful web services.  • Build microservices for accounts and orders with Spring Boot.  • Worked extensively with EC2, S3 AWS Services.    Environment: Java 1.8, J2EE, Spring 4.0, Spring Boot, MongoDB, JSP, JDBC, JBOSS, SQL Server, Postgres, Docker, AWS, JSON, AJAX, Bootstrap, Responsive Web Design, ReactJS. Full Stack Developer Department of Health Services - Sacramento, CA May 2015 to November 2016 Project: Children's Medical Services    Description: The Children's Medical Services Branch provides a comprehensive system of health care for children through preventive screening, diagnostic, treatment, rehabilitation, and follow-up services. The CMS Branch carries out this mission through a variety of programs meeting specific health care needs of targeted population.  The application is developed using the JAVA EE programming language inside IBM's suite of Rational tools and by using latest web technologies.    Responsibilities:  • Developed Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagram, Data Flow Diagram etc.  • Coordinated with other functional consultants.  • Web related development with Node.js, Express.js, JSP, AJAX, AngularJS, HTML5, XML, XSLT, and CSS3 with Micro-services architecture.  • Developed HTML5 based client using Node.js and validating user and permissions.  • Used Spring form Tags and form validation and MVC and security.  • Implemented Angular Controllers to maintain each view data.  • Implemented Angular Service calls using Angular Factory.  • Created REST based web services using JAX-RS.  • Designed and implemented a generic parser framework using SAX parser to parse XML documents which stores SQL.  • Used PVCS as a version control system.  • Deployed the application on WebSphere Application Server 8.5  • Used Hibernate 4.3 in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Developed Unit test cases using Mocha and Enzyme.    Environment: Java , J2EE, Node.js, Express.js, XML, JSP, JAX-RS, JDBC, JavaBeans, DB2, WebSphere 8.5, JSON, AJAX, AngularJS 1.5/2, Mocha, Enzyme, RAD 9.5 Sr. Java Developer Apple Inc - Sunnyvale, CA November 2014 to May 2015 Project: Apple Discussions  Description: Apple Discussions is web based application that provides the Apple product forums. Apple Discussions allows the user to chat with other Apple customers in Apple product forums. Apple Discussions is a part of Customer Systems that is responsible for designing and building the technology platform that powers Apple's Global CRM applications.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of project development.  • Application design based on SCRUM(Agile).  • Used J2EE Design Patterns like Proxy, DAO, Business Delegate and Session Façade.  • Web related development with Struts, Freemarker, AJAX, JavaSript, JQuery, HTML, XML and CSS.  • Implemented various XML technologies with including DTD schemas, XSL style sheets and XSLT.  • Extensively used MongoDB for storing data and backup calls.  • Implemented a restful web services using JAX-RS.  • Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection and integrated with Struts Framework.  • Configured the Jenkins set up for project build.  • Used Git for version and source control and JIRA for tracking the project changes.  • Performed unit testing using JUnit.  • Code documentation for future references.  • Attending Scrum meetings and filling Iteration backlogs of every iteration in the Agile Methodology.    Environment: Java , J2EE 1.6, Jive, Freemarker, Struts 2.0, NoSQL, Oracle, Akamai, Jenkins, JSON, XML, XSL,XSLT, JAX-RS, Apache Tomcat, Web Services, Maven , Agile, UML, JUnit, Git & JIRA. Sr. Application Developer Department of Child Support Services - Rancho Cordova, CA October 2012 to October 2014 Project: Child Support Enforcement    Description: Department of Child Support Services provides services including locating a parent; establishing paternity; establishing, modifying and enforcing a court order for child support and an order for health coverage.  Child Support Enforcement is a multi-tiered, multilayered, web browser application. The application is developed using the JAVA EE programming language inside IBM's suite of Rational tools.    Responsibilities:  • Followed approved life-cycle methodologies, created design documents, and resolved technical issues through debugging, research and investigation.  • Conducted and coordinated investigative and analytical studies of complex system functions and operations to select approaches for the resolution of complex problems or improving the efficiency of existing systems.  • Developed Struts based Model, View and Controller (MVC) Web application, Data Access objects and Batch processing procedures.  • Functioned as application developer in one or more technical areas of the Child Support Enforcement (CSE) application.  • Reviewed and analyzed change requests to determine the scope of work and estimate the level of effort for application changes.  • Wrote technical specifications for changing application components based on business requirements.  • Designed, code, unit tests, unit integration tests, and maintained application components.  • Developed the application front end using Jakarta Struts 1.3 Framework: developed  action classes, form beans, Java Server Pages, AngularJS, HTML and CSS.  • Extensively used Struts Validation Framework for major data entry and verification screen which involved extreme level of data validation at client side.  • Used Spring 2.0 Framework to support the Hibernate and Struts.  • Used Hibernate 3.0 in data access layer to access and update information in the database  • Used ClearCase for version and source control and ClearQuest for tracking the project Changes.  • Wrote PL/SQL stored procedures and used JDBC API  • Developed JUnit test cases for modules.    Environment: IBM RAD 7.1, IBM WAS 7.0, Struts, Web Services, Hibernate 3.0, Spring 2.0, J2EE 1.7, JSP 2.0, JMS 1.1, IBM MQSeries, XML, REST, WSDL, JAX-RS, Log4j, JUnit, ANT, AngularJS, Node.js, HTML, ClearCase, ClearQuest, DB2, PL/SQL, Windows XP, UNIX. Java J2EE Developer Department of Health and Human Services - Carson City, NV July 2012 to September 2012 Project: Nevada Eligibility Engine    Description: Eligibility engine determines eligibility for Medicaid, CHIP & Exchange APTC Coverage. The application is developed using the JAVA EE programming language inside IBM's suite of Rational tools.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the analysis, design, and development and testing phases of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC).  • Developed the application front end using Jakarta Struts 1.3 Framework: developed  action classes, form beans and Java Server Pages using WSAD.  • Designed and implemented Business Delegate, Session Facade and DTO Design Patterns.  • Deployed the applications on IBM Web Sphere Application Server 7.1.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4J and fixing the problems.    Environment: IBM RAD 7.1, IBM WAS 7.0, Struts 1.3, Web Services, Unix, Hibernate 3.0, Spring 2.0, J2EE 1.7, JSP 2.0, JMS 1.1, IBM MQSeries, XML, SOAP, WSDL, JAXB, Log4j, JUnit, ANT, JavaScript, HTML, CVS, Oracle 9i, PL/SQL, Rational Rose, Windows XP, UNIX. Education B.S in Computer Science & Engineering Punjab Technical University Skills Bea, Bea weblogic, Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Intellij idea, Spring, Jax, Jaxb, Jax-ws, Jboss, Jms, Jndi, jquery, Jsf, Jsp, Jstl, Rmi Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Web/Application Servers IBM WAS 5.1/6.0/7.0,Bea Weblogic 7.0/9.2, JBOSS 3.2/4.0, Apache Tomcat 5.0/5.5  J2EE Technologies EJB 2.0/3.0, Servlets 2.3/2.4/2.5, JSP 1.0/1.2/2.0, JSTL, MVC, JDBC 2.0/3.0, JNDI, RMI, JMS 1.1  Frameworks  Jakarta Struts Framework 1.2/2.0, Hibernate 2.0/3.0, J2EE Design Patterns, Spring 2.0/3.0/4.0, Spring Boot, JSF, JUNIT, LOG4J, Java Mail API    Languages Java, C, Python, SQL, PL/SQL  XML Technologies XML, XSL, XSLT, SAX, DOM, JAXB, JAX-WS, SOAP, WSDL  Web Technologies JavaScript, AngularJS1.5/2, ReactJS, NodeJS, CSS, HTML, Freemarker, DHTML, AJAX, JQuery  Databases Oracle 8i/9i, SQL Server, DB2, MongoDB  IDE Tools RAD 6.0/7.0,WSAD 5.1.2, Eclipse 3.x, IntelliJ IDEA, NetBeans 5.0/5.5  Tools Rational Rose, MS Visio, TOAD, Altova XML Spy, Oracle SQL Developer, ANT  Version Control Tools CVS, Clear Case, Git  Operating Systems Windows XP/2000/NT/98/95, Mac OS X Yosemite, Linux, UNIX