Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - PIMCO Newport Beach, CA • Java Professional around 8 years of experience in Object-Oriented Analysis & Design, Development/programming for web based, multi-tier and distributed applications in JAVA/J2EE Platform.  • Experience working extensively in all phases of a project development life cycle from Requirements analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing, Documentation, Standard reviews and Maintenance support.  • Experience in Web development using HTML5, CSS, XML, AJAX, JQuery, Bootstrap, JSON, GWT, JavaScript and Angular JS.  • Extensive experience in developing applications using Java, Servlets, JSF, Primefaces, EJB, JSP, JDBC, XML Technologies, JavaScript, HTML, XHTML, Eclipse development framework, Web Designing.  • Extensive experience in Hibernate, Struts, Spring MVC, Spring Integration, Spring Batch, Struts Framework and AOP.  • Experience in working with SOA Architecture Web Services, SOAP, WSDL and REST Architecture.  • Expert in writing optimized Queries, Stored procedures, Packages, Index and Triggers using SQL, Oracle, PL/SQL Querying and PostgreSQL.  • Experience in writing dynamic XSL/XSLT/DTD and corresponding static XML files.  • Expertise in the development of various E-commerce Applications using GoF design patterns like Singleton, Session Façade, Business Delegate, Factory and Service Locator.  • Expert in creating and deploying EAR and WAR files in WebLogic Application Server, JBoss, IBM WebSphere and Apache Tomcat.  • Worked with multiple versions of Integrated Development Environments (IDEs) such as Eclipse, JDeveloper, Net Beans and IntelliJ IDE.  • Hands on Experience in developing PDF reports, graphs and Charts using IReport, Jasper Reports, Fusion Charts and Pentaho API.  • Good knowledge on Amazon Web Services (AWS)  • Experience in writing ANT scripts, Maven, Log4J and JUnit for unit testing and Integrated testing.  • Involved in Agile processes like scrum daily standup meetings, Sprint Planning, Sprint iteration development and Sprint retrospectives.  • Experience working on the AWS Cloud Services EC2, S3, RDS, ELB, Auto Scaling, VPC, VPN, Security Group, Cloud Formation Template (CFT), AWS OpsWorks, Route53, Cloud Watch, Cloud Trail, Lambda, SNS, SES, IAM and Elastic Cache.  • Excellent knowledge of Software Quality Assurance especially in Functional Testing UI, User Acceptance testing, Behavioral and Operational Testing. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java Developer PIMCO - Newport Beach, CA July 2017 to Present Responsibilities  • Worked with different business unit teams to gather functional and operational requirements.  • Created functional specifications and configuration documents based on the user requirements for different modules.  • Coding and integration of several business-critical modules using Java, JSF, Primefaces, Hibernate and Oracle.  • Created Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams, User case diagrams and activity diagrams based on the functional requirement document.  • Created webpages/views using components of Primefaces 5/6 and JSF 2.0 according to the MVC framework.  • Developed reusable composite components using Primefaces API that can be used across all the pages.  • Created Annotated JPA Entity POJO classes which are accessed in data access layer.  • Configuration of deployment descriptors.  • Used REST API to add/remove users to the Tableau server.  • Responsible for maintaining and expanding AWS (Cloud Services) infrastructure using AWS Stack especially worked with database setup and maintenance on AWS EC2.  • Used XPath to parse the XML response.  • Used JSF and Primefaces components data table, diagram, dialog, layout units, to develop E-Query Builder module in the secure data assistant application.  • Used jQuery for creating JavaScript behaviors.  • Scheduled Quartz job to trigger various backend jobs.  • Created multiple java threads to enhance the performance of report creation.  • Involved in developing DAOs using Hibernate and JPA API.  • Written complex PL-SQL scripts to perform backend data fixes and other procedures to move the data from main tables to the History tables.  • Used JSF API and written code for the extraction of different application's modules data to the Spreadsheets.  • Involved in Application support in production.  • Responded to the Incident tickets and interacting with various other teams for resolution.  • Involved in Agile Scrum and Retrospective meetings.  • Complete QA/Testing cycle to explain design, functionality, to derive the use cases required for testing and execution  • Configured Jenkins build for the projects created in maven repository.  • Deployed applications to IBM WebSphere Application Server.    Environment: Java 1.7, J2EE, JQuery, Eclipse 3.4, Oracle 12c, JPA2.0, Hibernate 3, Tableau, JSF2.0, Primefaces5/6. JUnit 4, REST, XPath, XML, MongoDB, Quartz 2.2.3, PL-SQL, Cloud Services, Oracle SQL Developer 4.0.2, IBM Clear Quest 7.1, Jenkins, IBM Clear Case 7.1, IBM WebSphere Application Server. Sr. Java Developer IDB Bank - New York, NY October 2015 to June 2017 Responsibilities  • Technical walkthroughs with business analysis team assessing technical complexity, dependencies, risks and improvements and help documenting formal business requirements.  • Implemented Spring Framework for dependency injection to inject appropriate class objects depending on the source of the application process.  • Developed Controller for request, response paradigm by Spring Controllers using Spring-MVC.  • Involved in technical design and interface design using the JSF, Primefaces framework for the application.  • Developed java server pages using JSF, Primefaces.  • Designed methods for event handling using Ajax in Primefaces.  • Configured Kafka to read and write messages from external programs  • Implemented Spring ORM with Hibernate taking advantage of Java features like annotation metadata, auto wiring, and generic collections using plain EJB3's JPA specification that is used to implement the DAO layer with Hibernate Entity Manager's Session Factory, HQL, and SQL.  • Developed SQL queries, PL/SQL Querying, Stored Procedures, Triggers for Oracle and MS SQL server.  • Using J2EE design patterns like Singleton and used DTOs to transfer the data.  • Created various Hibernate entities, POJO's and their respective files, integrated them with JBPM Business Processing Module.  • Created Restful API's for some of the core functionalities for third party which consumes and produces data in JSON format using JAX-WS framework.  • Responsible for creating and maintaining architecture for Restful API using Spring Boot.  • Configured Hibernate in 'war' modules to define relationship between entity classes.  • Coded Java classes using Eclipse and configured Hibernate for the web project.    • Created HQL queries to display views. This was done within entities, which are created from the DB tables.  • Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with GitHub, Jenkins, Nexus, Rundeck and Splunk.  • Wrote Unix Shell scripts for starting, stopping and restarting the server from the application.  • Implemented JUnit test cases for unit testing and tested the functionality of the code.  • Implemented Log4j to generate the logs for the application.  • Migrating existing application into micro services architecture using Rest APIs, Spring Boot.  • Involved in implementing pom.xml with the team for the application using Maven tool.  • Configured kalka to handle real time data.  • Successfully Generated consumer group lags from Kafka using their API    Technologies: Java 1.6/1.7, J2EE, JSF 2.1, Primefaces 5.0, Spring MVC, Spring ORM, Spring Boot, Hibernate, EJB3, Restful web service, JAX-WS, Unix shell script, Jenkins, Nexus, Rundeck, Splunk, Maven, Oracle, SQL, MS SQL Server 2005/2008, Micro services architecture, Eclipse IDE, Log4j, SVN, GitHub, AJAX, JUnit, Apache Tomcat. Sr. Java Developer Guidewire - Vermillion, SD May 2014 to September 2015 Responsibilities  • Responsible for analyzing, designing and developing core APIs for persistence.  • Extensively used Builder, Adaptor, Factory, Singleton and Facade design patterns.  • Front end is developed using JQuery, Angular JS and GWT, Spring MVC module for middle tier and Hibernate on the back end.  • Design, investigation and implementation of public facing websites on Amazon Web Services (AWS)  • Implemented complex back-end component to get the count in no time against large size MySQL database using Java multi-threading.  • Configuration of application using spring, Hibernate, DAO's, Actions Classes, Java Server Pages.  • Configuring Hibernate and Tiles related XML files.  • Developed the application using Spring Framework that uses Model View Controller (MVC) architecture with JSP as the view.  • Developed presentation layer using HTML 5, CSS, JQuery, JSF and Primefaces.  • Extensively used Spring IOC for Dependency Injection and worked on Custom MVC Frameworks loosely based on Struts.  • Developed Servlets and Java Server Pages (JSP), to route the submittals to the EJB components and render-retrieved information using Session Facade, Service Locator (design pattern)  • Developed J2EE components on Eclipse IDE.  • Developed integration modules for disparate clients using Apache Camel.  • Integrated configured Camel with ActiveMQ to use it as bus.  • Used JDBC to invoke Stored Procedures and also used JDBC for database connectivity to SQL.  • Deployed the applications on Apache Tomcat Application Server.  • Used Oracle11g database for tables creation and involved in writing SQL queries using Joins and Stored Procedures.  • Designed database tables needed for the project in Oracle database.  • Writing complex SQL queries and reviewing SQL queries for the other team members.  • Developed JUnit Test Cases for Code unit test.  • Worked with configuration management groups for providing various deployment environments set up including System Integration Testing, Quality Control Testing etc.    Technologies: J2EE, Hibernate, Spring, HTML 5, CSS 3, JQuery, AngularJS, JSF 2.0, Primefaces 5.0 EJB, SQL Developer, Oracle 11g, Apache Camel, UML, MS Visio, MS Office, Apache Tomcat Application Server, GWT, AWS. Java Developer Wipro January 2013 to April 2014 Responsibilities  • Involved in Requirements gathering, Analysis and Design of the application.  • Created use cases, class diagrams, and sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Designed and developed web interfaces using MVC Architecture and Struts Framework.  • Developed Action Classes and Form beans.  • Developed code using WebLogic Application server and Java Application server.  • Involved in Implementing J2EE Design Patterns like Singleton, Session Facade, Value-Object and Service Locator.  • Implemented Spring Framework for dependency injection to inject appropriate class objects depending on the source of the application process.  • Involved in Writing Object Relation Mapping implementation using hibernate and hibernate mapping configuration files.  • Developed user interfaces using JSP, AJAX, XHTML, CSS, DOJO and JavaScript.  • Designed the application in such a manner to have code reusability.  • Extensive client side / server-side validation scripts are written in JavaScript, AngularJS and AJAX.  • Created complex JavaScript front-end applications using GWT.  • Used JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, and JSF for Rich UI layer.  • Involved extensively in writing SQL and PL/SQL Querying, Stored Procedures, Functions and PostgreSQL.  • Also used SOAP UI tool to test the REST web service operations.  • Used SOAP UI tool to test the modified web service code by using the already existing testcases and testsuites.  • Used SVN as the version controller.  • Implemented log4j for checking application logs.  • Involved in Unit and Integration Testing after each development Life cycle.  • Worked with QA team in testing the functionality of the application using Selenium tool.  • Converted data sources from WebLogic Application Server to JBoss Application Server.  • Installation and configuration of JBoss EWS and mod jk load balancing in a reverse proxy environment  • Used NetBeans IDE as a development tool.  • Worked with JDeveloper to process and find the memory leaks from the large size memory dumps.    Technologies: Java 1.5, J2EE (Servlets 2.4, JSP 2.0, JSP Taglibs), Struts 1.2, Spring 2.5, Hibernate 3.0, NetBeans, HTML, CSS, XML, XSL, DOJO, SOAP, JavaScript, JSF, REST, SOAP, AJAX, JUnit, WebLogic 9.0, JBoss EAP 5.1, SVN, Oracle 10g. Java Developer Honeywell June 2011 to December 2012 Responsibilities  • Analyzed Business Requirements and Identified mapping documents required for system and functional testing efforts for all test scenarios.  • Developed the application using Struts Framework that uses Model View Controller (MVC) architecture with JSP as the view.  • Developed presentation layer using JSP, HTML and CSS.  • Developed Servlets and Java Server Pages (JSP), to route the submittals to the EJB components and render-retrieved information using Session Façade, Service Locator (design pattern)  • Used JSON parsers to convert the java objects to JSON and vice-versa.  • Used JDBC to invoke Stored Procedures and used JDBC for database connectivity to SQL.  • Writing complex SQL queries and reviewing SQL queries for the other team members.  • Developed JUnit Test Cases for Code unit test.  • Monitoring and coordinating with Support teams to resolve technical production issues and defects.  • Worked with configuration management groups for providing various deployment environments set up including System Integration testing, Quality Control testing, etc.    Technologies: Java 1.5, JSP, Struts, HTML, CSS, JSON, SQL, JUnit, Eclipse, JavaScript, Ajax, SVN. Education Bachelor's Skills JAVA (7 years), JUNIT (7 years), SQL (7 years), ECLIPSE (6 years), J2EE (6 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages Core Java 1.6/1.7, C, C++, Java script, UML, PYTHON, HTML, JQuery  J2EE Technologies  J2EE, EJB 2.x/3.x, Struts 2.1/2.2, Spring 3.x, PL/SQL, PostgreSQL, Hibernate 3x/4x, JDBC, JUnit, JSP, SVN, Ant, JMS, Tomcat JBoss, JSON, RMI, XML, REST/SOAP web services, Shell scripting, Soap UI, WinSCP, Putty, Amazon Web Services, Ant, Maven    Framework Spring, Struts, Hibernate, JSF 1.x/2.x, PrimeFaces  Web/App Server IBM WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat 6, JBoss Application server  Internet XML, XSL, HTML, XHTML, CSS, Action Script, XSl/XSLT, JavaScript, Bootstrap, CSS, AngularJS, NodeJS, Jquery and ReactJS  Databases Oracle 11g/12c, MySQL, MS SQL Server 2005, DB2, PostgreSQL  IDE/Tools  IntelliJ IDEA, HP Quality Center, Rational Rose, SQL developer, TOAD, Eclipse, Netbeans, Putty, WinScp, Nexus, Rundeck, Splunk, Jenkins    Version Control Tools SVN, CVS, GIT, IBM ClearCase  Design Methodologies Rational Rose (UML), Data Model, MS Visio Pro 2005    Operating Systems DOS/Windows NT/2000/XP/7/10, Unix/Linux, Solaris, MacOS  Build Tools Ant, Maven, Jenkins  File Transfer tools: WinSCP, FileZilla  Memory Management/Tools Eclipse-Profiler, JDeveloper