Salesforce Developer / Administrator Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span> / Administrator Salesforce Developer / Administrator - AT&T Atlanta, GA Work Experience Salesforce Developer / Administrator AT&T - Atlanta, GA April 2017 to Present • Performed the roles of Salesforce.com Developer and Administrator in the organization.  • Involved in Salesforce.com Application Setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization.  • Interacted with various business team members to gather the requirements and documented the requirements.  • Designed and developed SFA based Application on Force.com Platform in Salesforce.com environment with Apex programming language at backend and Visual-Force pages as user interface.  • Used Force.com IDE for creating, modifying, testing, and deploying Force.com Application.  • Worked with various salesforce.com objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, Reports, and Opportunities.  • Developed various Custom Objects, Tabs, Entity-Relationship data model, validation rules, Components and Visual Force Pages.  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on a record detail and edit pages.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, time-triggered tasks, email alerts, filed updates to implement business logic.  • Created templates, approval processes, approval page layouts and defined approval actions on them to automate the processes.  • Created various Reports (summary reports, matrix reports, pie charts, dashboards and graphics) and Report Folders to assist managers to better utilize Salesforce as a sales tool and configured various Reports and for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  • Implemented new applications based on Lightning to have compatibility of the app in mobile, Tab and desk top versions.  • Developed Lightning Component Framework and also built Lightning component using aura framework.  • Involved in integration of Salesforce with REST and SOAP Web Services.  • Tested apps by appending multiple components to a Lightning Application thereby deployed applications from Sandbox to Production.  • Used refined global search in Lightning by developing Apex classes and Controllers.  • Developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Used SOQL & SOSL for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects  • Created users, roles, public groups and implemented role hierarchies, sharing rules and record level permissions to provide shared access among different users.  • Created profiles and implemented Object and field level security to hide critical information on the profile users.  • Created test scenarios on Sandbox environment, and used Force.com Component Deployment Wizard for migrating data between Force.com IDE and Sandbox environment.  • Provided post-implementation support to assist end users in creating reports, dashboards and certain Administration tasks including creating and maintaining user profiles and privileges.  Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Pages, Data Loader, HTML, Java Script, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Sandbox data loading, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Windows XP, Force.com IDE, Eclipse 3.3, Apex, Visual Force. Salesforce Developer AIG - Houston, TX October 2016 to March 2017 • Analyzed the requirements with the business team and converted the requirements into detailed technical requirements.  • Preparation of design documents of various silhouette applications based on the gathered requirements.  • Designed, developed and deployed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers, Packages, Visualforce Packages for various functional needs of the application.  • Developed the Custom objects, Validation Rules, Formula Fields, Page layouts, Custom tabs, Components, Custom Buttons and Links.  • Performed administration activities for SFDC including System Configuration, Analytics Reporting, Data Migration, User Acceptance Testing, End User Training Development & Delivery and System Testing.  • Created Custom Objects and defined Lookup and Master-Detail relationships on the objects and created Junction objects to establish many-to-many relationship among objects.  • Created Email templates for inbound emails using Visual force for the clients and customers.  • Worked on various Salesforce.com Standard Objects like Campaigns, Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Opportunity, Forecast, Cases, Reports and Dashboards.  • Implemented Web-to-Case, Email-to-Case to track Cases from the website.  • Created different Workflow Rules and Approvals for various campaign processes.  • Maintained data cleanliness and accuracy by adding Custom Validation Rules and Triggers.  • Performed various Data Migration activities like Insert, Update, Upsert, Delete and Export using Apex Data Loader by writing SOQL queries.  • Worked with web based technologies like HTML, XML, and JavaScript.  • Created various Reports (Summary Reports, Matrix Reports, Pie Charts, and Dashboards) and Report Folders to assist managers to better utilize Salesforce to track the Cases and configured various Reports for different user profiles based on the needs of the organization.  • Extensively involved in writing Test classes and moved code into production environment.  • Participated in the training sessions provided by the Salesforce team and supported the end users.  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Worked with Force.com team to develop and successfully integrated and roll out the project on 3rd party system.  • Managed Users, hierarchical Roles, Profiles, Security controls.  Environment: Saleforce.com Platform, Sandbox, Role Hierarchies, Sharing Rules, Email Templates, Reports, Dashboards, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Apex Data Loader, Email Service, Security Controls, Apex, Visual Force, Web Services, Eclipse. Salesforce Developer Icomm Technologies - IN September 2012 to July 2014 • Worked with end users and business analysts for requirements gathering, analysis and provided design inputs.  • Worked with various salesforce.com objects Lead, Account, Contact, Opportunity, Campaign, Cases, Solutions.  • Defined lookup and master-detail relationships on the objects and created junction objects.  • Developed Reports and Dashboards, validation rules, formula fields for the application.  • Configured/Created Profiles, Roles, and Permission Sets for the organization and setting up Field-level, Object-level security rules for the application.  • Created Custom fields, Field-dependencies, and validation formulas to the custom objects.  • Created Custom objects, Custom tabs, Workflow Rules, Auto-Response Rules, Page layouts, Components, Visualforce Pages to suit the needs of the application.  • Developed Approval process for the application by implementing custom formulas in different stages of approval.  • Maintained processes of .csv import file updates for customer records into Accounts, Contacts using Data Loader and Import Wizard.  • Written Apex Classes and Apex Triggers in the application for various Business/functional requirements.  • Developed Web Service Callouts from Salesforce to External Applications using SOAP and REST API.  • Written SOQL, SOSL query language necessary for the application in Apex Classes and Triggers.  • Developed UI using CSS, HTML tags, Visualforce components and used JavaScript for front-end validation.  • Worked with Visualforce Controllers (Standard, Standard List, Custom and Extension)  • Written Apex Test Classes for unit testing to ensure at least 75% of code coverage is met.  • Deployed application from Sandbox to different other Sandbox as well as into Production environments.    Environment: Salesforce.com Enterprise Edition, Pages, Data Loader, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Security Controls, Data Management, Profiles, Page Layout, Validation Rules, Visualforce pages, Apex, JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery, JSP, HTML. Java / J2EE Developer Accords Smart Solutions - IN September 2010 to August 2012 • Followed AGILE methodology and participated in SCRUM meetings.  • Experience in SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) by creating the web services with SOAP and Spring MVC frameworks.  • Design and developed multiple web (UI) pages using JSF, Rich Faces, JSP and HTML.  • Architecture for the Client Application using JSP, Servlets.  • Design UI and write backing business logic, in the existing framework. The existing framework involved Spring, Hibernate and Oracle in the persistence layer with JSF, Ice faces and JSPs forming the front-end.  • Written Web services to publish messages to MQ to communicate with legacy applications.  • Designed and implemented a series of SOA compliant web services on JBOSS, Weblogic platforms.  • Implemented web services (WSDL) and effectively worked with SOAP and XML, XSLT.  • Written Web Services (WSDL) to exchange data between different applications which are on different platforms.  • Created a graphical utility using Java/Swing that could display the information specific to the client requirements. Developed top-down and bottom up web services development.  • Implemented JAX-RPC and JAX-WS services, with extensive experience in working with web services languages like WSDL & SOAP. Used Hibernate mapping for connecting to the database.    Environment: Java 1.5, J2EE 1.4, Servlets, JSP, JSF, JAX-WS, Spring Framework, SOAP, WSDL, XML, XSLT, HTML, CSS, WebSphere, DB2, JUnit, Web Services, Hibernate, JBoss. Education Masters in Computer & Information Science in Computer & Information Science SOUTHERN ARKANSAS UNIVERSITY - Magnolia, AR 2016 Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science in Computer Science JAWAHARLAL NEHRU TECHNOLOGICAL UNIVERSITY - Atlanta, GA 2010 Skills C/c++, C++, Javascript, Svn, Eclipse, Apex, Salesforce, COM, Salesforce Admin, Visualforce Links http://Salesforce.com Additional Information Technical Skills    Salesforce Technologies  Salesforce CRM, Apex, Visual Force, SOQL, SOSL, Salesforce1, Service Cloud,  Sales Cloud, Communities, Reports & Dashboards, SOAP, REST, Web Service.  Lightning Experience.    Programming Languages Apex, Java, C/C++  Salesforce Tools Data Loader, Eclipse IDE, Force.com IDE,Force.com Migration Tool, Salesforce Lightning CLI,Workbench, Email to Case.  Web Development Technologies JQuery, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3  Version Control System GitHub, SVN.