Senior Java/J2EE /AWS Developer (Full Stack Developer) Senior <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE /AWS <span class="hl">Developer</span> (Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span>) Senior Java/J2EE /AWS Developer (Full Stack Developer) - DXC Technology, Plano - TX ? Oracle certified Java Programmer having experience of 8+ years in the software development life cycle (SDLC) process working with various phases like requirements gathering and analysis, developing and testing in the domains like Banking, Insurance, e-Commerce.  ? Experience in using Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodologies like Agile/Scrum and Waterfall.  ? Experience in working with MVC (Model View Controller) architecture, using Struts, Hibernate, Spring Framework with various Java/J2EE design patterns.  ? strong working experience with Integrated Development Environment (IDEs) like Eclipse, My Eclipse, WebStorm, IntelliJ Idea, NetBeans, Microsoft Visual Studio  ? Proficient in Java, J2EE technologies like JDBC, JSP, Java Servlets, Java Beans, Models, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, XML, JMS, JNDI, Java Reflection API (JRA), Java Persistence API (JPA), Java Transaction API (JTA), Web service like SOAP, Restful, JAXP, JAXP.  ? Proficient in developing GUI using web technologies like CSS, HTML, Java Script, JSF/Prime Faces, Ajax, JQuery, JSON, PHP, Bootstrap JS, Angular JS, Node JS and React.JS.  ? Competence in database design and data analysis using SQL Server Management Studio, SQL, Oracle.  ? Experience in modeling, Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) architecture and designing artifacts using Rational Rose.  ? Competence in designing Data Flow Models, Conceptual Data Models, Class Diagrams, State Diagrams and Use Case Diagrams.  ? Expertise in Java/J2EE design patterns like Singleton, Model View Controller (MVC), Data Access Object (DAO) and core Java concepts like Collections, Multi-Threading, Serialization, Exception Handling, java packages, sub packages, Applet, Regular Expressions, Abstraction, encapsulation, Inheritance and Polymorphism.  ? Extensively worked with Eclipse inbuilt debugger in debugging of java applications.  ? Worked with Log4J logging framework to handle runtime exceptions.  ? Expertise in application and web servers such as Apache Tomcat, IBM WebSphere, JBOSS, Glassfish and Oracle Web logic.  ? Experience in writing Data Access Object (DAO) using Hibernate mapping and Hibernate.  ? Involved in Junit testing, software testing, regression testing, management and defect/bug tracking using IBM Clear Quest bug tracking system.  ? Experience building the design principle Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) software applications in Java.  ? Worked with Representational State Transfer (REST), Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) Web Services to expose the business logic.  ? Proficient in XML technologies like XML, XHTML, XSL, SOAP, WSDL, DTD, XQuery, XSD, XSLT, JAXB and JAXP (DOM & SAX).  ? Worked with messaging system like Java Messaging service (JMS) for formal communication, exchanging vital data.  ? Experience working with Relational Database Management Systems (RDBMS) like MySQL, SQL, Oracle, IBM DB2, PostgreSQL, Teradata.  ? Strong working knowledge on Web Services like REST/Restful, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, to expose the functionality of Business code.  ? Experience working with NOSQL databases like Hbase, Cassandra, MongoDB, CouchDB, Neo4j.. etc.  ? Experience working with Selenium and Quick Test Professional (QTP) tools.  ? Worked with tracking tools like JIRA, dovetail, ALM, BugZilla, Redmine  ? Good working experience with Version Control Tools (SVN, Git, CVS, BitBucket), Build Tools (Ant, Maven, Gradle), Automation Tools (Selenium, Quick Test Pro), Bug Tracking Tools (Jira, BugZilla, Redmine, ALM), Ticketing Tools (DoveTail), Other Tools like Log4j, Logback, Junit, TestNG, Jenkins, Cucumber, putty. etc.  ? Experience in developing software applications in Java using Object Relational Mapping (ORM) frameworks like Hibernate, EclipseLink, IBATIS, MVC frameworks like JSF, Struts, spring modules such as Spring MVC/AOP/DAO/JDBC/Security/ORM/OXM/IOC.  ? Extensively used QTP integrated environment like Data Table, Actions and Recovery scenarios.  ? Responsible for integration of test scripts and reporting defects in ALM.  ? Experience in Unit and Integration testing using Junit, TestNG, Mockito, Jasmine, Karma, Selenium.  ? Responsible for implementation of Hybrid Test Automation Framework build using Selenium WebDriver, TestNG, Maven, Apache POI and Ant technologies under Java platform.  ? Extensive experience in Amazon Web Services (AWS) cloud computing service it includes Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Elastic Load Balancing, Amazon SQS, Amazon Simple DB, Amazon RDS, AWS Identity and access management, , Amazon EBS, AWS CloudWatch and Amazon Cloud Front.  ? Extensively used IBM Rational Rose for designing process to generate UML diagrams for representing Use cases, Class diagrams Sequence, Activity and MS Visio for Flow Charts.  ? Experience in Developing Test Strategy, Test Cases, Test Plan and Automation test scripts using Selenium.  ? Expert in developing Java Selenium Web Driver/RC/IDE/GRID test scripts using Java, JavaScript, Python and Ruby and Test Frame works using Testing/ Junit, ANT/MAVEN build tools.  ? Experienced in manual testing and basic automation (QTP, Selenium Testing, SOAP UI, Cucumber, JIRA Jama tools) Tools etc.,  ? Worked on different Testing frame works like Data Driven, Keyword Driven, Hybrid Driven and also experience in test driven development ( TDD), Behavior driven development (BDD), Acceptance Test Driven Development (ATDD) approaches.  ? Developing Test scripts for the Test cases in C# using Quick Test Professional(QTP). Work Experience Senior Java/J2EE /AWS Developer (Full Stack Developer) DXC Technology, Plano - TX July 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the application development using Java platform. Model View Control (MVC) structure implementation.  ? Responsible for providing the client side JavaScript validations and usage of HTML, JavaScript, XML, JSP, CSS as per the requirements to enhance the Portal UI.  ? Used Spring Core for Dependency Injection.  ? Mapping of ORM objects to tables using the Hibernate as the persistence framework.  ? Involved in different service classes, used across the framework.  ? Implementation of Web Services using Axis for the integration of different systems  ? Used XML, SOAP and WSDL with DOM parser in the development of the Web Services component to transform and transfer the data between the applications.  ? Used HTML, CSS, Spring MVC, JSP, and JQuery, JavaScript, React.js, Angular.js, Node.js, Bootstrap in the development and the designing the UI.  ? Usage of SOAP/WSDL in the exposure of various capabilities as the Web Services.  ? Testing of Web Services using the SOAP UI, by sending the SOAP i/p request.  ? Used HTML, CSS, Spring MVC, JSP, and JQuery, JavaScript, React.js, Angular.js, Node.js, Bootstrap in the development and the designing the UI.  ? Gradient effects through the development of the CSS style sheets. Developed navigation, icons and layouts.  ? Migrated the existing application from an XML-based configuration to a Java annotation-based configuration.  ? Implementation of business logic, validation Frame Work using Spring Web flow and Spring MVC.  ? Implemented Web tier of the application through the usage of Spring MVC framework.  ? Implementation of clean separation of layers through the usage of different design patterns like Factory pattern, Singleton and DAO pattern.  ? Used JSON strings to transfer java object data to Angular JS and vice versa.  ? Made the integration of data in several applications in favor JSON documents with dynamic schemas using Mongo-DB (NoSQL) database.  ? Used Spring MVC (Model View Controller) to handle the user requests and used various controllers to delegate the request flow to the Backend tier of the application.  ? Used Oracle10g database tool to build, edit, and format database queries, as well as eliminate performance issues in the code.  ? Serialization in the flattening of the objects.  ? Used core java concepts like Collections, multithreading while developing server-side services.  ? Worked with IBM Web Sphere Application Server Developer Tools for Eclipse by using lightweight set of tools to assemble, develop and deploy Java EE, Web 2.0, and mobile applications.  ? Involved with GUI using JSP, Java Script and HTML.  ? Experience with Garbage collection and multithreading.  ? used XML and Java Architecture for XML Binding (JAXB) to map java classes to XML representation.  ? used JIRA to track the progress of the project and wrote test cases and Used Junit as a testing framework in a Test-Driven Development environment.  ? Experience with Concurrency, Exception Handling, File handling.  ? Developed client-side user interface and server-side software components deployed entirely in Compute Cloud of Amazon web Services (AWS).  ? Hands-on experience in developing AWS cloud formation templates and setting up Auto scaling for EC2 instances and involved in the automated provisioning of AWS cloud environment using Jenkins and chef.  ? Created Single Page Application with loading multiple views using route services and adding more user experience to make it more dynamic by using Angular.js framework.  ? Used Bootstrap and AngularJS, React. Js and Node. Js in effective web design.  ? Developed and deployed EJBs, Servlets and JSPs on IBM WebSphere Server.  ? Used MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, schema design.  ? Exposed Restful Web Services using JAX-RS specification.  ? Used Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping and DAO (Data Access Object) implementation.  ? Developed SQL and PL/ SQL scripts for transfer of data between databases. Developed complex SQL queries for reports.  ? Used AngularJS as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  ? Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML file that contains declarations, and extensively used Spring IOC and AOP.    Environment: Java, CSS, J2EE, HTML, XMI, Hibernate, DB2, Spring, PL/SQL, Log4j, JavaScript, JSP, JQuery, Angular JS, Node js, Eclipse, UNIX, JBoss Application server, SOAP, WSDL, Web Sphere, Oracle, AWS, EC2, Jenkins, Chef Senior Developer Delta Air Lines Inc - Atlanta, GA January 2017 to June 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Developed UML diagrams object diagrams, class diagrams, sequence diagrams and case diagrams.  ? System application architecture is based up on the J2EE specifications and Spring MVC (Model View Controller).  ? Used Generics, Enums, enhanced for loop and java Annotations in the development.  ? Used Web Services frameworks like Hibernate, spring and JMS.  ? Used JMS during the implementation of Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) for sending and receiving the messages while creating web services.  ? Used Spring Security for application security and using Spring AOP created the logging aspects for logging and auditing purposes.  ? Application authentication through Spring Security.  ? Transaction management services handled through the usage of Spring AOP module for objects in any Spring based application.  ? Used Spring Security for the security of form-based application implementation.  ? Development of discount generation services using Dependency Injection (IOC) and Spring AOP.  ? Batch jobs running of Spring Batch by creating POC.  ? Implemented ORM, IOC and AOP for backend tiers using Hibernate and Spring.  ? Implemented Hibernate Template to great extent making use of HQL, Named Parameters, Named Queries and interfaces such as Expression, Query and Criteria.  ? Built Restful Micro services and service- oriented solutions.  ? Worked with APIs such as JDO ( Java Data Objects) and Hibernate and JPA ( Java Persistence API) frameworks.  ? Used design patterns such as Singleton, Service Locator, Data Access object and Session Façade during the implementation of an application.  ? Used CSS, HTML, Bootstrap and JQuery with AngularJS interaction during the upgradations of UI.  ? Association of HTML elements to models using AngularJS framework and Bootstrap library to build project UI's quickly.  ? WebSphere Application Server in the deployment of application.  ? Involved in Scala Framework for web based application.  ? UI has been developed using Angular JS.  ? Asynchronous exchange of information such as payment Status reports using Java Messaging Services (JMS) as well reliable.  ? Applications that need to execute as part of a scheduling mechanisms used PL/SQL stored procedures.  ? Worked with AngularJS and JQuery in the creation of interface to Bulk update of Attributes and manage user menu.  ? Involved in the development of the UI using HTML, Java Script and JSP.  ? Involved in the development of Web Service components using SOAP and REST and integrated to the application.  ? Used Junit while creating test cases following Test Driven Development.  ? Transfer of XML data in large blocks over HTTP using SOA Web Services using SOAP with JAX-WS.  ? Automation of Build and deploy process using Maven and Jenkins.  ? Worked on issue tracking using Clear Quest. Source Control using Clear Case in core project.  ? Used log4j for logging errors in the application.  ? Requirements gathering from end Clients involving in the JAD sessions.    Environment: Java, Spring, Hibernate, Spring Quartz JPA, Restful Microservices, Java Scripts, AngularJS, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JMS, JAXP (SAX & DOM), JSON, Oracle, MongoDB, WebSphere Application Server, Eclipse, Unix/Linux, Oracle, SOAP, Maven, log4j, Junit, XML, Web Services. Java Developer Sprint Corporation June 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Involved at different phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application alike Design, Requirements gathering, Analysis and Code development  ? Developed the application based on MVC architecture using the J2EE design patterns and technologies  ? Development is done using J2EE design patterns like Business Delegate, Session façade, Object Pattern and service locator, DAO, Factory and Singleton.  ? Development of user interfaces using AJAX and JSPs.  ? Developed SQL stored procedures and prepared statements for accessing and updating data from database.  ? Implementation of Spring Framework for a common look in all the presentation views.  ? Worked on consuming set of SOAP services for document generation and document storage management.  ? Implementation of access privileged security for different front end views.  ? Development and creation of Web Services using REST with JSON response type.  ? Usage of RAD IDE based on Eclipse in the code development of Action Classes, Spring Beans and JSP.  ? Used Hibernate with POJOs in the implementation of persistence layer to represent the persistence database.  ? Used Log4j for tracking errors and debugging the code.  ? Integrated spring MVC with Spring Hibernate DAO and Spring DI.  ? Used Hibernate DAO Support in writing DAO, DTO's  ? Involved in requirement gathering of AVS sub module called TIGER (Tool to identity and generate ESG Revenue).  ? Followed Agile software methodology for project development.  ? Extensively worked on developing UI components using Angular JS and JSON to interact Restful web services.  ? Used Restful web services to consume the data from external Vendors.  ? Data validations were implemented for critical functionalities using AngularJS and JavaScript.  ? Responsive development is implemented using Bootstrap and CSS3 media queries.  ? Developed application on spring framework by utilizing its features like Spring Dependency injection, Spring Security, Spring Web flow with Spring MVC.  ? Implementation of the version control by using SVN.  ? Involved in the development of Java Web Services to get customer data from various application systems.  ? Hands-on experienced working with Source control using Git and Github.  ? Deployed the application in to the server using JBoss Application Server.  ? Developed Junit Test cases for DAO and Service Layer methods to accomplish TDD approach.  ? Usage of Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  ? Preparation of WAR files along with the supportive ANT scripts development to deploy J2EE components into the server.  ? Involved in the Development of Spring Framework Controllers. Developed Controller for request, response paradigm by Spring Controllers using Spring-MVC.  Environment: Core Java, JSP, HTML, XML, J2EE, Spring, Design Patterns, OOAD, MySQL, ANT, JBoss Application Server, IBM RAD IDE, SVN, Hibernate, REST, Log4J, TOAD, JUNIT, CSS3, TIGER, Ajax, SQL, JSON, Spring Beans, POJO, Spring Hibernate DAO, Spring DI, TIGER, AngularJS ,JavaScript, Spring MVC. Java/Selenium Automation Tester Canarix Software Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2013 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the requirements gathering, analysis, design, system/technical specifications, and development of the project.  ? Conducted Functional testing and Regression Testing and verifying the results with expected results.  ? Expert in developing Java Selenium Web Driver/RC/IDE/GRID test scripts using Java, JavaScript and Test Frameworks using TestNG/Junit, ANT/MAVEN build tools.  ? Developing a test framework in JAVA using page object model and data driven model on top of JUNIT and Appium for test automation.  ? Involved in developing the automation script for Mobile Native applications (IOS, Android) using Appium, Java.  ? Analyze business requirements, Software requirement specifications to create test plan and test cases for manual and automation testing using Selenium RC, TestNG.  ? Developed Keyword Driven and Data Driven frameworks to retrieve test data from Excel files and SQL Databases.  ? Created and enhanced numerous test scripts to handle changes in the objects, in the tested application's GUI and in the testing environment using Selenium Web Driver.  ? Provided best practices in Automation testing in Code dui.  ? Involved in Automation of the test cases using Selenium Web Driver, Junit and Ant.  ? Used Selenium RC for testing different browser, Selenium Grid for checking instance of server and Selenium IDE for record and playback.  ? Performed Automation acceptance testing using Cucumber by writing test scripts in Java.  ? Created automated scenarios using Selenium for regression and Data-Driven testing.  ? Responsible for Execution and Maintenance of automation test scripts.  ? Responsible for implementation of Hybrid Test Automation Framework build using Selenium RC, TestNG, Maven, Apache POI and Ant technologies under Java platform.  ? Authored and Executed Automation and Manual Test Cases for Functional testing of various modules of the application.  ? Prepared test data for testing the application in various test phases.  ? Worked on Selenium GUI Object / element verification is done through XPath, CSS Locators.  ? Implemented Page Objects, Data Driven, Keyword Driven, Hybrid automation frameworks using Selenium WebDriver, JAVA, Junit.  ? Involved in Designing & developing data driven framework using Selenium Web Driver, Testing and implemented Java Mail to send the regression result automatically.  ? Setup the Automation framework using Selenium Web Driver to run test cases in multiple browsers and platforms.  ? Developed automated scripts using Selenium Web Driver and Implemented Frame work using Java.  ? Prepared the Test Suite with the TestNG framework based on Java and developed the test scripts using TestNG annotations.  ? Used Apache POI methods for writing to excel sheets in java.  ? Developed Java based library to read test data from XML & Properties files using Junit and Selenium.  ? Defect Management through JIRA and retesting for fix returns  ? Daily/Weekly status reports for the release  ? Worked with QA team to perform Test strategy and Test plan.  ? Participating in walkthroughs of functional reviews and design reviews.  ? Have hands on experience in working with Ticketing tool, Dovetail.    Environment: Selenium Web Driver, RC, IDE, GRID, Java, JavaScript, TestNG, Junit, ANT, MAVEN, Eclipse, JAVA, JIRA, Dovetail, Junit, SQL, Cucumber, Apache POI, XPath, CSS. J2EE Developer Global Logic Private Limited - Hyderabad, Telangana March 2011 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Development of GUI for HTML and JSP Versions. Java Servlets were used as the common gateway interface between the client and server.  ? JavaScript was used for the client side validations.  ? Java Beans were used to handle business logic as a Model and Servlets to control the flow of application as controller.  ? Written JSP's, Servlets and deployed them on Web Logic server.  ? Beans were used for Oracle& JDBC connections &Servlets were used to retrieve data from the database.  ? Written JavaScript functions to get dynamic data and client side validation.  ? Developed this application based on MVC Architecture.  ? Designed and developed Customer registration and login screens using HTML, JSP, Servlets and JavaScript.  ? Involved in Servlets, Java Bean programming on the server side for the communication between clients and server.  ? Tested and deployed the application on Apache Tomcat.  ? Completely involved in Production support from client requirements to developmental aspects with coding, system optimization and testing.  ? Implemented GUI of system using Swing.  ? Involved in programs debugging and modules integration.  ? Involved in writing application logic, which was mainly written in PL/SQL (stored procedures, triggers and functions).  ? Involved in unit testing and analyzing the results.  ? Worked extensively with AJAX.  ? Involved in Integration testing and System testing cycle and defects fixing.  Environment: J2EE, Java1.2, Struts 1.2, Servlets2.2, JSP1.1, JDBC2.0, My Eclipse 5.5, Apache Tomcat5.0, DB2, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, HTML, PL/SQL, CVS. Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jboss, Jms, Jndi, jquery, Jsp, Jstl, Servlets, Struts, C++, Case tools, Cucumber, Git, Gradle, Gui Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Languages C, C++, Java, UML, SQL, Vb  Design Methodologies Agile, Waterfall  Automation Tools Selenium, Quick Test Pro, Junit, TestNG, Mockito, Jasmine, Karma,  Issue/Bug Tracking/Test management Tools Quality Centre, Jira, BugZilla, Redmine, ALM  Ticketing Tool Dovetail  Java/J2EE Technologies Servlets, JDBC, JSP (EL, JSTL, Custom Tags) Hibernate, Junit, Apache Struts, Java Beans, JMS, EJB, Java Security, and JNDI.  Web Technologies JavaScript, HTML, XML, CSS, XHTML, Angular JS, GUI, XSL, XSLT, JQuery, JBoss SEAM, SAX/DOM  Java Tools & Framework Hibernate, Spring, Struts, Junit and Apache Camel.  Web Services REST, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI  Web/Application Servers Web Logic, IBM Web Sphere, JBoss, apache Tomcat, Glassfish  Databases MySQL, Oracle, DB2, Hbase, Cassandra, MongoDB, CouchDB, PostgreSQL, Teradata  IDE Eclipse, Spring Tool Suite (STS), Net Beans, Dreamweaver.  Modeling/CASE Tools Star UML, Rational Rose, MS Visual Professional.  Build Tools Ant, Maven, Gradle  Version control Tools GIT, CVS, SVN, ClearCase  Operating Systems Windows 8/7/Vista/XP/2000/NT UNIX, Linux  Other Tools Load UI, RTC, Putty, Notepad++, WinSCP, Star Team, Jenkins, Rational Clear Quest, HP Load Runner  Cloud Technologies AWS, Google, Microsoft Azure  QA Automation Tools/Testing Tools  Selenium (Web Driver, IDE, RC, GRID), QTP, Cucumber, Manual Testing, Protractor, BDD, POM, POI, Appium Emulators, IOS Simulators, SVN, TFS, MTM, TestNG, HP Load Runner, log4j, JMeter    Project Communication Tools MS-Office Tools, MS Outlook, Excel Sheets  Testing Frameworks Keyword Driven, Data Driven, Hybrid Testing Frame work, Page Object Model.