Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - T-Mobile Bellevue, WA • Over 8 years of experience in the activities of analysis, design, development and maintenance of Software in web based and N-Tier architecture applications using Java, J2EE, JAXB, JAXR, MVC, JSP, JSTL, Servlets, JMS, JDBC, Microservices, Struts, Hibernate, Web services (SOAP & RESTful).  ? Experience in all phases of software development life cycle (SDLC).  ? Detailed experience on spring components like Spring-MVC architecture, Spring Boot, Spring- Multi threading, Rabbit MQ (Message Queue's), Kafka, Multi- connection pools via spring, Scala, RESTful services, WEB services and Spring Integration.  ? Hands-on experience in implementing J2EE compliant applications using various Design patterns like Singleton, Facade, DAO Factory and MVC.  ? Extensive experience in design, development and implementation of Model-View-Controller frameworks using Struts and Spring-MVC.  ? Strong experience on Hibernate.  ? Hands-on working experience on HTML 5, JavaScript & CSS.  ? Experience in Java 8 coding standards like Lambda expressions.  ? Experience in developing applications using JavaScript especially with jQuery, Bootstrap, Node JS and Angular JS Framework.  ? Experience in developing the Rich Internet Applications (RIAs) with Adobe Experience Manager 6.0(Adobe CQ).  ? Real time passionate experience with RIA technologies like GWT (Google Web Toolkit), Smart GWT, AJAX, JSON & JSNI.  ? Extensive experiences in developing applications with web services and inter process communication using RMI.  ? Experienced in AWS Cloud platform and its features which include EC2, EBS Cloud watches, DynamoDB, Cloud Formation, Lambda, IAM and AWS S3.  ? Good knowledge on writing SQL, PL/SQL queries.  ? Professional experience in documenting and understanding user requirements and system specifications.  ? Experience in working on UML and system design using Rational Rose XDE for Java.  ? Experience with tools like Maven, Jenkins, ANT, Git Hub, CVS, and Clear Case.  ? Experience with analysis of the user needs, documentation, translation into proper system requirement specifications and working under tight schedules.  ? Extensively worked on Internationalization (I18n) projects for Japanese, French and UK clients.  ? Hands on experience with application servers like Tomcat, Web logic, IBM Web Sphere6.  ? Hand on experience on JUNIT and Mockito, Power Mockito.  ? Exposure to monitor the Production Environments under 24/7 (under on-call rotation) to meet the Service Level Agreements set by the management.  ? Experience in all phase of SDLC like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and Maintenance, and extensive experience with Agile and SCRUM.    Technical kills:  Programming Languages/Scripts  Core Java, J2EE (JSP, JSTL, Servlets, EJB, JDBC, JNDI, JMS), Java script, HTML5, CSS3, XML, XHTML, XSLT, jQuery, Angular JS, Node JS, AJAX, JSON, Scala    Frameworks Struts, Spring 3 MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Integration  ORM Hibernate  Technologies  Spring Web & Rest Services, JNI & JSNI, GWT & Smart GWT, Guava, JFrog Artifactory, Rabbit MQ, Kafka and Adobe Experience Manager 6.0    Tools  Jira, Bamboo, cucumber, Confluence, Jira, STS, Eclipse, Jenkins, NetBeans, JUnit, Rational Rose, ANT, Maven, Graphana, Splunk, Find Bugs, TFS, Log4J    Web Services REST, SOUP  Version Control CVS, Subversion, clear case, Git Hub, Stash  Application Servers Jetty, WebLogic & WebSphere  Web Servers Apache Tomcat, Jersey  Database Servers Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server, DB2, DynamoDB Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer T-Mobile - Bellevue, WA March 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in the analysis, design, development and testing phases of SMPD (Social Messaging Platform Development) application.  • The application is designed using J2EE technologies along with Spring Boot framework.  • Used Spring Cloud Stream template for the asynchronous exchange of critical business data and events among J2EE components.  • Designed and developed the REST based Microservices using the Spring Boot for the application to seamlessly integrate with external systems.  • Developed complex interfaces using Spring framework and RESTful Webservices to extract customer's information for validation.  • Used Docker as a container tool for deploying and running Microservices.  • Involved in writing AWS Lambda to automate trigger event using NodeJS and stored data in S3 buckets.  • Involved in writing cloud Formation templates for creating PostgreSQL DBs and Kafka clusters.  • Used Apache Kafka for data streaming and data pipeline.  • Developed microservices to load the data from DynamoDB to Kafka topics for reporting.  • Involved in complete testing of the application and unit-test planning using J-Unit.  • Used Maven for building and managing dependencies of the application.  • Involved in configuring Log4J file for better logging of the applications.  • Used Jenkins to deploy and manage build process.  • Used Git to control the build version.  • Involved in projecting application/service metrics using Graphana/Graphite.  • Used Splunk to configure the logs of the application.  • Developed test automation framework for REST APIs/ Kafka consuming services using TestNG and cucumber framework.  • Deployed SonarQube instance in AWS EKS and configured the instance in Jenkins pipeline.  • JIRA/Rally was used for version controlling as an agile tool.  • Actively involved in SCRUM meetings, task assignment, work stack prioritization, backlog management, retrospection and ensuring continuous delivery of features.  • Involved in writing JMeter scripts for Perf/load testing Rest APIs.  • Used Swagger for documenting REST APIs.  • Involved in coordinating with security team to maintain security for Rest/SOUP APIs and Web Apps.    Environment: Java 1.8, J2EE, Kafka, Restful web services, SonarQube 7.7, Spring Boot, AWS, DynamoDB, Microservices, Junit, JMeter, Power Mockito, Log4j, JAX-B, Tomcat, DynamoDB, PostgreSQL, Graphana, Splunk Intellij IDE, Test NG, cucumber, Windows. Java/J2EE Full Stack Developer Pivott/FPL - Miami, FL July 2016 to February 2018 Responsibilities:  • The application is designed using J2EE technologies along with Spring MVC architecture.  • Actively involved in the analysis, design, development and testing phases of application.  • Used "RabbitMQ" queues for reliable and asynchronous messaging exchange.  • Developed complex Hibernate mappings even for Views and Stored Procedures.  • Developed presentation layer with HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Angular JS and Ajax calls.  • Involved in developing jQuery scripts for validations and passing attributes from one screen to another.  • Several design patterns like Delegation, Abstraction, Singleton, Factory, Data Transfer Object and Data Access Object were used for the application development.  • Implemented methods that will insert, update, delete and retrieve data in the database using Hibernate.  • Implemented Hibernate/JPA for data persistence.  • Working within SOA based enterprise framework to build web services for Middle Tier processing.  • Designed and developed the REST based Microservices using the Spring Boot for the application to seamlessly integrate with supporting sub systems.  • Used Docker as a container tool for deploying Microservices.  • Installed application on AWS EC2 instances and configured the storage on S3 buckets.  • Developed the application with Continuous Integration and Deployment using Jenkins.  • Used SQL Developer for verifying the database information and worked with Apache Cassandra.  • Made use of the Spring framework with Web Logic Application Server.  • Logged exceptions on existing application using Log4J.  • Involved in Unit-test planning and designing test cases for the project.  • Involved in complete testing of the application using J-Unit.  • Involved in production support for the application.  • Used Maven for building and managing dependencies of the application.  • Involved in deployment and managing Jenkins build process.  • Used Stash/Git to control the build version.  • JIRA was used for version controlling as an agile tool.  • Worked in an Agile environment with daily Scrum meetings to produce quality deliverables within time.    Environment: Java 1.6, J2EE, EJB, Restful web services, Spring framework, Spring Boot, POJO, Hibernate, Microservices, Junit, Power Mockito, Log4j, Jfrog, jQuery, XML, JAX-B, CSS, Angular JS, Web Logic server, Oracle 11g, Oracle SQL Developer, Eclipse, Windows, Chrome post master and Soup UI. Java/J2EE Developer ATOS - Mason, OH December 2014 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • The application is designed using J2EE technologies using MVC architecture.  • Developed presentation layer with JSP, HTML, CSS, jQuery, Bootstrap, Angular JS and Ajax calls.  • Responsible for developing JSPs as views, Spring Servlets as controllers and Action Classes as wrappers to business objects and Action form beans for modeling.  • Developed XML based core system to populate data from external systems into the database.  • Used Spring JMS template for the asynchronous exchange of critical business data and events among J2EE components and legacy system.  • Involved in developing jQuery scripts for validations and passing attributes from one screen to another.  • Used AJAX for request response processing without reloading the complete page.  • Consumed Spring REST services for interactive front-end widgets.  • Involved in Designing and creating Automation frameworks using TestNG and Selenium WebDriver.  • Made use of the Spring framework with Web Logic Application Server.  • Worked on PL/SQL and created views, triggers, cursors, procedures, function and stored procedures.  • Oracle reports were used for the generation of reports.  • Implemented simultaneous queries and retrievals using Java Multi-Threading techniques.  • Worked with NoSQL database MongoDB and developed custom MongoDB applications specific to client's needs.  • Involved in Unit-test planning and designing test cases for the project.  • Involved in complete testing of the application using J-Unit & Power Mockito, based on the unit-test plan.  • Debugged the scripts for building entire web application using maven.  • Involved in production support for the application.  • Used Rational RequisitePro for requirements management.  • Involved in Configuring Jenkins for Continuous Integration.  • Used Git to control the build version.  • Actively participated and provided feedback in a constructive and insightful manner during weekly Iterative review meetings to track the progress for each iterative cycle and figure out the issues.  • Co-ordinated with team members to understand the business requirements and involved in solving the technical problems.  • Participated in Sprints and Scrum meetings as part of the Agile development.    Environment: Java 1.6, J2EE, Spring framework, MVC, JSP 2.0, EJB, JAX-RS, JAXR, jQuery, Node JS, J-Unit, Linux, MySQL, Bootstrap, Java Script, JSF, XML, XSLT, HTML, Web Logic Server, MongoDB, Soap UI & chrome post-master. Java/J2EE Developer Capgemini - IN June 2013 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Technical designing and planning of the application.  • Interacted with business users to gather functional requirements.  • Involved in designing the use cases and the Class Diagrams as per the Functional Requirements.  • Involved in the development of the application using AWT for the GUI.  • Developed an Intranet portal service on MVC architecture using Spring.  • Performed coding in Java/J2EE technologies using Eclipse IDE.  • Used Log4j for application logging and configured loggers and appenders.  • Extensively consumed GWT (Google Web toolkit) and Smart GWT components like Grids, List Grids, Nested trees and charts etc.  • Extensively worked on Internationalization (I18n) projects for Japanese, French and UK clients.  • Created Stored Procedures and PL/SQL where they can be compiled and called later for more efficiency.  • Used JDBC for Connection Pooling and interaction with the database.  • Implemented SOAP web services.  • Performed unit testing using Junit.  • Provided support and coordination in QA Testing, UAT and Production phases of the application.    Environment: Java 1.5, J2EE, XML, Spring, Ant, Log4J, JUnit, Apache Tomcat, Web Services (SOAP), Axis 2, Jersey, Windows 7, Oracle 11g Java/J2EE Developer Honeywell - IN January 2011 to June 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the analysis, design, and development and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle.  • Interacted with business users to gather functional requirements.  • Consumed JSP, JSON and XML message formats and validated with GSON f/w.  • Consumed Struts MVC and EJB's for business components.  • Consumed Struts Validator f/w for form field validations.  • Implemented web services using SOAP.  • Involved in writing SQL queries and stored procedures for the application in Oracle.  • Used JavaScript, HTML, and CSS for front-end web development.  • Involved in documenting the technical detail design and SRS documents.  • Completely test-driven project using Junit.    Environment: Java 1.5, J2EE, EJB, IBM RAD7.0 (IBM web sphere), Junit, Log4j, XML, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, SOAP, JAX-WS, Oracle, Eclipse, Windows XP, UNIX, CVS. Education Bachelor's Skills Core Java, J2EE (JSP, JSTL, Servlets, EJB, JDBC, JNDI, JMS), Java script, HTML5, CSS3, XML, XHTML, XSLT, (8 years), jQuery, Angular JS, Node JS, AJAX, JSON, Scala (8 years), Struts, Spring 3 MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Integration (8 years), Hibernate (8 years), Spring Web & Rest Services, JNI & JSNI, GWT & Smart GWT, Guava, JFrog (8 years), Artifactory, Rabbit MQ, Kafka and Adobe Experience Manager 6.0 (8 years), Jira, Bamboo, cucumber, Confluence, Jira, STS, Eclipse, Jenkins, NetBeans, JUnit, Rational Rose, (8 years), ANT, Maven, Graphana, Splunk, Find Bugs, TFS, Log4J (8 years), REST, SOUP (8 years), CVS, Subversion, clear case, Git Hub, Stash (8 years), Jetty, WebLogic & WebSphere (8 years), Apache Tomcat, Jersey (8 years), Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server, DB2, DynamoDB (8 years), Agile, Scrum (8 years), EC2, EBS Cloud watch (logs), Cloud Formation, DynamoDB, Lambda, IAM, AWS S3 (8 years), Linux, Windows (8 years)