Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java/J2EE Developer - Dogfish Software Seattle, WA ? Having around 8 years of Professional experience in IT Industry involved in Developing, Implementing and maintenance of various web based applications using Java, J2EE Technologies.  ? Extensive SDLC experience including Requirement Analysis, Preparations of Technical Specifications Document, Design and Coding, Application Implementation, Unit testing & System Testing, Functional & Regression Testing and Production Support.  ? Proficient with Software development methodologies like Agile and Waterfall methodologies.  ? Extensively used Java 8 features such as lambda expressions, Parallel operations on collections and for effective sorting mechanisms and new Date Time API.  ? Hands on experience with Amazon web services(AWS) and Amazon cloud technologies such as Amazon EC2 (virtual servers) and Amazon Cloud Watch (monitoring).  ? Designed, configured and managed public/private cloud infrastructures utilizing Amazon Web Services (AWS) including EC2, Auto-Scaling in launching EC2 instances, Elastic Load Balancer, Elastic Beanstalk, S3, Cloud Formation, IAM, SNS.  ? Experience in implementing client - server business applications using Microservices, Designed and developed Microservices business components using Spring Boot.  ? Expertise in developing web pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, AngularJS, Bootstrap with webpage cross browser compatibility like Responsive web design and Server scripting language like Node JS.  ? Developed web-based enterprise applications using Core Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JSF, JDBC, Hibernate, Web Services (SOAP and REST), MVC Framework (Struts, Spring MVC) and SQL.  ? Experience in application development using J2EE technologies like EJB, JPA, JTA, JMS, JNDI, JAX-WS and JAX-RS.  ? Extensive experience in design and development of J2EE applications using Core Java, Java Collections, Exception handling, Annotations, Data Structures, Multithreading, Transaction Management, JMS Custom Tag Libraries, JSTL, XML and other open source frameworks and APIs.  ? Experience using Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Data, Spring IOC, Spring Annotations, Spring AOP, Spring Transactions and Spring Security.  ? Expertise in Creating Hibernate configuration file, Hibernate Mapping files and defined persistence classes to persist the data into Oracle Database.  ? Experience in designing, developing, and deploying J2EE applications on Web sphere, Web logic, Apache Tomcat, Glass Fish and JBoss application Servers.  ? Proficient in developing Web Services related technologies &frame works: WSDL, SOAP, REST, JAX-WS, JAXB, JAX-RPC, AXIS and Jersey, SOAP UI.  ? Proficient in implementing various Java design patterns like MVC, Session Facade, Data Access Object (DAO), Factory, Singleton, Data Transfer Object, and Front Controller.  ? Experienced with JAX-RS specification like Jersey and RestEasy to Implement REST based applications.  ? Experienced in implementing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) with XML based Web Services (SOAP/UDDI/WSDL) using Top Down Approach and Bottom up Approach.  ? Experience with MOCKITO, JUnit and Log4j in developing test cases and determining application functionality.  ? Used Maven, ANT and Jenkins to deploy automated builds in different environments.  ? Subversion SVN, CVS, GIT and Visual Source Safe as versioning software tools.  ? Experience in developing applications on Windows, UNIX and Linux platforms.  ? Highly experience with Java complaint IDE's like STS, Eclipse, IntelliJ and RAD.  ? Excellent analytical and critical thinking, creative problem solving, quick learning, interpersonal and client interfacing skills.  ? Good understanding of Business workflow, Business logic and Business methods for further implementation of user requirement in a distributed application environment. Work Experience Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Dogfish Software - Seattle, WA February 2016 to Present Description:The Vanguard Group is an American investment management company with over $4 trillion in assets under management. The main motto of this project is to develop a Short Message Service (SMS) application, which allows clients to send an unscheduled real-time text message to a mobile device number for notification purposes, and to check the status of those messages. This text message service supports both one-way and two-way communications.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology (SCRUM) for developing application.  ? Application is implemented using agile methodology where there is a daily SCRUM meeting to understand the status and resolve any issues.  ? Developed reusable components usingHTML5, JavaScriptandXML.  ? Designed, developed a custom, single-page, responsive web application on front end using AngularJS.  ? Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in NodeJS.  ? Developed forms for user event handling and validations using JavaScript's and AJAX.  ? Upgraded existing UI with HTML5, CSS3, JQuery and Bootstrap.  ? Designed and developed the End Points (Controllers), Business Layer, DAO Layer using Hibernate/JDBCtemplate, using Spring IOC (Dependency Injection).  ? Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing Spring Inversion of Control (IOC) and Hibernate.  ? Used Spring Framework AOP Module to implement logging in the application to know the application status.  ? Used Spring DAO Module along with Struts Framework to deal with Database.  ? Build the application based on new features of Java Jdk 1.8 at service layer level.  ? Worked on Java 8 Streams and on lambda expressions  ? Responsible for maintaining and expanding AWS (Cloud Services) infrastructure using AWS (SNS, SQS).  ? Configured AWS Cloud Watch to monitor AWS resources as well as application and troubleshoot AWS EC2 status check including System Status check and Instance Status check alerts.  ? Implemented the application using Spring IOC, Spring MVC Framework, Spring Batch, Spring Boot and handled the security using Spring Security  ? Implemented the various services using Micro-services architecture in which the services works independently  ? Implemented Micro-services using Pivotal Cloud Foundry platform build upon Spring Boot Services  ? Implemented Batch jobs to deal with largenumber of chunks using Spring Batch Framework to execute the similar jobs simultaneously.  ? Used Hibernate, object /relational mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with an SQL-based schema.  ? Designed and developed a JDBC driver that intercepts a create view DDL parses it, converts it to a relational model, and stores in the database.  ? RESTful web services using Jersey for JAX-RS implementation  ? Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries, third party libraries and Java Script to simplify the complexities of the application  ? Performed CRUD operations like Update, Insert and Delete data in MongoDB.  ? Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, schema design, etc.  ? Proficiency in adoption of architecture paradigms such as SOA, Web services, Middleware technologies.  ? Worked with core java concepts like Collections Framework, Multithreading and Memory management.  ? Involved in installing and configuring Maven for application builds and deployment.  ? Worked on Log4J to validate functionalities and JUnit for unit testing.  ? Automate build process through Maven build framework.  ? Worked on all the project written in the shell script to execute in the linux and unix box.  ? Used JIRA to assign, track, report and audit the issues in the application.  ? Setup the Continuous delivery / Continuous Integration (CD/CI) process for the application using the tools Docker, Jenkins to deploy this application to AWS and used GIT for Version Control of code for incremental development.  ? Used GIT to maintain the version of the files and took the responsibility to do the code merges from branch to trunk and creating new branch when new feature implementation starts.  Environment:HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Agile (SCRUM), AngularJS, NodeJS, Ajax, Hibernate, Spring, MongoDB, Spring Batch, Spring Boot, Spring Security, Servlet, XML, GIT, Spring MVC, JUnit, Maven, Web Services, Restful, Log4J, SOA, AWS, Micro Services, JIRA, Spring Security, Jenkins and STS. Sr. Java Developer Capital One - McLean, VA September 2014 to December 2015 Description: Company provides retail, commercial, and corporate banking services to individuals, businesses, and institutions. The company Community Banking segment offers checking and market rate accounts, savings and time deposits, individual retirement accounts, and remittances and lines of credit, auto floor plan lines, equity lines and loans, equipment and transportation loans, education and residential mortgage loans and credit and debit cards.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in development, unit testing, performance tuning, application support & maintenance in Information Technology and analyzing and developing the application using Object Oriented Application & Design (OOAD).  ? Developed web Application Using Core Java, spring, Hibernate, HTML5, Angular-JS, Java Script, JQuery and CSS.  ? Implemented Representational state transfer (REST) Web services for distributed systems using Jersey framework.  ? Developed, deployed and maintained Single Sign On application in development, test and production environments.  ? Created screens by assembling Struts Tiles: header, footer, menu, body and defined common page layouts, menu layouts, and use them by passing lists of items and links. Reuse existing layouts using inheritance.  ? Implemented Spring Transaction management for some database transactions.  ? Used Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring IOC and Hibernate to establish the Connection with Database for Store  ? Used Hibernate Query Language (HQL) to query the database for complex data.  ? Extensive experience working with XML, XSD, JSON.  ? Experienced in writing unit test cases using JUNIT and Mockito.  ? Developed JMS Queues for asynchronous messaging and Web Services using SOAP/WSDL.  ? Developed messaging module using Spring JMS, Apache Camel and Active MQ.  ? Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection and used Apache Camel to integrate spring framework.  ? Exposing and consuming the services to the downstream/upstream applications using Apache CXF and REST services.  ? Worked on making AJAX calls to connect database using RESTFUL web APIs and worked on integrating the middleware to front-end.  ? Deployed the applications using JBoss Application server.  ? JavaScript was used for the client side validations.  ? Used SVN as version control tool.  ? Used log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions and debugging.  Environment: Java, HTML5, JavaScript, CSS, AJAX, JSP, JQuery, Hibernate, Spring Framework, AngularJS, JAXP, JAXB, JMS, Apache Camel, SVN, Oracle, JBoss, Jenkins, RESTful Web Services, AXIS. Java/J2EE Developer Sprint - Kansas City, MO October 2013 to September 2014 Description: Sprint Synaptic Storage as a Service is a web services-based storage solution that easily scales up and down to any size you need and allows you to pay only for the storage you use. It provides elastic capacity on demand with no commitments, minimums, or limits and allows access to your stored data from virtually anywhere and anytime.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in various Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) phases of the project like Requirement gathering, development, enhancements using agile methodologies.  ? Developed the user interface using Spring MVC, JSP, JSTL, JavaScript, Custom Tags, JQuery, HTML and CSS.  ? Used Spring MVC for implementing the Web layer of the application. This includes developing Controllers, Views and Validators.  ? Developed the service and domain layer using Spring Framework modules like Core-IOC, AOP.  ? Implemented the caching mechanism in Hibernate to load data from Oracle database.  ? Developed the Application Framework using Java, Spring, Hibernate and Log4J.  ? Created DB tables, functions, Joins and wrote prepared statements using SQL.  ? Configured Hibernate session factory in applicationcontext.xml to integrate Hibernate with Spring.  ? Configured ApplicationContext.xml in Springto adopt communication between Operations and their corresponding handlers.  ? Developed Spring rest controllers to handle JSON data and wrote Dao's and services to handle the data.  ? Created DB tables, functions, Joins and wrote prepared statements using PL/SQL.  ? Consumed and Create REST Web services using Spring and Apache CXF.  ? Developed MySQL stored procedures and triggers using SQL to calculate and update the tables to implement business logic.  ? Used Maven to build the application and deployed on WebLogic Application Server.  ? Used IntellIJ for development and WebLogicApplication Server for deploying the web application.  ? Monitored the error logs using log4j.  ? Implemented Spring JMS message listeners with JMS queues for consumption of Asynchronous requests.  ? Used AOP concepts like aspect, join point, advice, point cut, target object andAOP proxies.  Environment: Java, J2EE, HTML, SOAP UI, JSP, Java Script, Hibernate, Spring, XML, Maven, WebLogic, log 4j, Tortoise SVN, Eclipse Kepler, MySQL, SOAP web services. Java Developer Intermountain Health Care - Salt Lake City, UT 2012 to January 2012 Description:The Health Evaluation System is developed for the doctors who can use the system and give the details to the patients by the printout. This system will have all the information regarding the health related issues. Using this system doctor will get all the types of medicines for any type of health issues. The system will store all the information regarding health issues and their medications for different ages.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Analysis, development, testing, integration and deployment of the web services.  ? Involved in Agile methodology to get updated with team  ? Involved in development of User Interface using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and JQuery, Ajax and JSON  ? Used spring framework to implement the MVC design pattern.  ? Used hibernate to map the domain elements and Criteria API, named query for querying  ? Developed the REST web service using Spring IOC to provide user a way to run the job and generate daily status report on loans.  ? Extensively involved in developing and consuming Restful web services.  ? Wrote complex SQL query to pull data from different tables to build the report.  ? Used Log4jerror handling, to monitor the status of the service and to filter bad loans.  ? Used IBM cruise control to build the WAR file.  ? Used WebLogic to deploy the changes and to test on local machine.  ? Committed the code changes to SVN using Tortoise SVN.  ? Developed Junit test cases, to test each class as part of unit testing.  Environment: Java, Struts, Spring IOC, Oracle, Hibernate, JavaScript, JQuery, WebLogic, SQL, HTML, XML, Agile, Restful Web services, ANT, Junit, SQL Developer, JMS, Eclipse, Log4j, HPQC. Java/J2EE Developer Power Solutions - Chennai, Tamil Nadu May 2010 to December 2011 Description: The project involved developing channeling & distribution systems support (identification, analysis, problem detection and troubleshooting of applications, optimization and integration, up gradation, and automation of routine tasks) for Med Plus Pharmacy chains. The distribution and inventory data was analyzed to extract business insights and make actionable suggestions to senior management.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the Requirement study, design and development.  ? Responsible in developing JSP's and Servlets.  ? Used MVC Architecture using Struts.  ? Used JDBC thin drivers to connect to the back end Oracle database.  ? Involved in designing and developing forms on the client side using HTML/DHTML, JavaScript and AJAX.  ? Involved in designing tables in Oracle.  ? Used Ant to build the deployment JAR and WAR files.  ? Web Logic application server was used to host the Application.  ? Entire application was build and deployed using Apache Ant tool.  ? Log4J was used to log Messages.  ? Created Unit test cases and performed Functional and Integration testing  ? Extensively involved in release/deployment related critical activities.  ? Used VSS for version control.    Environment: JAVA, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Jakarta Struts Framework, JDBC, ANT, HTML, CVS, JavaScript, Oracle and BEA Web Logic Server, Visual Source Safe (VSS), Log 4j. Java Developer PB Systems - Mumbai, Maharashtra June 2008 to March 2010 Description:The objective of this project is to implement a web based front end system which can be used by the employees, managers and higher level management having specific role permissions for effective processing of day to day business activities in the company like leave management, project management and resource management etc.  Responsibilities:  ? Developed the application using Struts Framework that leverages classical Model View Controller (MVC) architecture.  ? Designed the user interfaces using JSPs, developed custom tags, and used JSTL TagLib.  ? Developed various java business classes for handling different functions.  ? Developed controller classes using Struts and tiles API.  ? Involved in Documentation and Use case design using UML modeling include development of Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams, and Use Case Transaction diagrams.  ? Participated in design and code reviews.  ? Developed User Interface using AJAX in JSP and performed client-side validation.  ? Developed JUnit test cases for all the developed modules. Used SVN as version control.  Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Struts, JNDI, DB2, HTML, XML, DOM, SAX, ANT, AJAX, Rational Rose, Eclipse, SOAP, Apache Tomcat, Oracle, LOG4J, SVN. Skills JAVA (8 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (8 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (8 years), MVC (8 years), ORACLE (8 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Languages C, C++, Java, J2EE, SQL,PL/SQL.  J2EE Technologies Servlets, JMS, EJB, JDBC, JSP, JSF, JNDI, Java Security.  Mark-up/XML Technologies HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax,AngularJS,NodeJS, XML, XSD, XSL/XSLT, SAX/DOM, JSON, Bootstrap.  Tools & Framework Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring Boot, JSF, JUnit, SOAP UI.  Web services SOAP, Restful, UDDI, WSDL, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, JAX-B, Axis2, Micro Services, AWS (Amazon Web Services).  Web/App Servers IBM Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat, JBoss EAP, Web Logic Server, Glassfish.  Database Oracle, SQL-Server, MongoDB/NoSQL.  IDEs Eclipse, IntelliJ, Spring Tool Suite(STS), RAD.  O-R mapping Hibernate, MyBatis.  Testing Tools/ Others JUnit, Soap UI, Putty, Rational Clear Quest, RTC, StarTeam, TOAD, Jenkins.  Version Control Tortoise SVN, CVS, Rational Clear case, GitHub.  OS & Environment Windows, UNIX, Linux.