java/j2ee developer <span class="hl">java</span>/j2ee <span class="hl">developer</span> java/j2ee developer - BSW HEALTH Dallas, TX • Over 7 years of experience in working on the various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) like requirements analysis, design, coding, testing, debugging and maintaining the websites.  • Expertise in Agile and SCRUM Methodologies.  • Experience in designing and developing User Interface (UI) applications and professional web applications using Java, HTML5, XHTML XML, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, JavaScript, CSS, Bootstrap, JSP, Servlets and Angular 4 with client scripting and server-side scripting languages like JavaScript, jQuery, JSON and JSP.  • Strong working experience on various Spring Modules (Spring MVC, DAO, AOP, Spring LDAP, Spring Batch, Spring Scheduler) along with Hibernate as the back-end ORM tool for implementation of persistence layer and mapping of POJOs.  • Experience working with AngularJS, Angular2/5, Backbone MVC Framework, NodeJS.  • Experience in building enterprise Applications and Distributed Systems using technologies such as Core Java, J2EE (Servlets, JSP, EJB, Hibernate, spring, Struts, JDBC, JMS) and XML  • Experience in modeling presentation tier using Struts MVC2 (Model-View-Controller) architecture.  • Extensive experience in Core Java 8, Spring Boot, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services, Kubernetes, Swagger, Docker.  • Expertise in developing data models using Hibernate Object relational mapping (ORM)  • Involved in configuring Amazon EC2 instances for web applications in the AWS cloud environment using cloud template. Also, participated in configuring load balancing using LDAP.  • Experienced in using AWS SDK and/or CLI Tools. Experience in developing scripts using SOAP and Restful API models for the purposes of integrating workflows with AWS.  • Experience in implementing the declarative enterprise services using Spring AOP.  • Experience in designing REST and SOAP services. Experience in programming, deploying, configuring and administering Application Servers like BEA Web Logic 9.0/10.0, JBoss and Web Servers like Apache Tomcat 7.0/6.0.  • Working on development of ecommerce platform for multi tenants built in Java(SpringBoot) and Angular JS/React.  • Experience in unit testing the applications using Junit and Mockito Framework. Involved in deploying microservices on Amazon EC2 cloud-based architecture in AWS.  • Experience in using Version Control Systems like SVN, and GIT. Sound skill in Swing MVC architecture, design patterns, Collections Frameworks, Exceptions handling and multi-threading  • Good Knowledge of using IDE Tools like Eclipse, NetBeans for Java/J2EE application development.  • Experience in designing, developing and implementing E-Commerce, B2B, standalone applications using J2EE technologies in Retail, Manufacturing and Insurance domains.  • Excellent analytical and communication skills. Good understanding of Software as a Service (SaaS)  • Capable of meeting tight deadlines with excellent overall project life cycle experience and team spirit.  • Exposure and Good interpersonal skills, excellent verbal, written and presentation skills and can work both independently and in a team. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience java/j2ee developer BSW HEALTH - Dallas, TX March 2018 to Present It is a healthcare management system. It assists in managing the patient information for the hospitals. In the project the application needs to support different type of users and shows appropriate information according to the type of the user. Baylor user module team is responsible for logging, validation and session information. It provides access to patients for viewing their information and making appointment with the doctors. And doctors use it to keep track of all the patient information.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in business required gathering and technical specifications.  • Analysis, design and development and testing phases of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) using Agile methodology.  • Created a Front-end application using Angular4, JSPs and Spring MVC for registering a new patient and configured it to connect to database using Hibernate.  • Implemented J2EE standards, MVC architecture using Spring Framework.  • Developed single page application using AngularJS, NodeJS, ExpressJS and MongoDB with ng-view directive.  • Used object relational mapping using Spring with Hibernate and IBATIS.  • Developed multiple single page applications using Angular 7.0, HTML5, CSS3, Angular Material.  • Created Entity using JPA and Spring Data JPA for execute queries to the databases.  • Effective use of Hibernate (ORM tool) in the business layer to create DAOs.  • Created Stored procedures using PL/SQL for data modification (Using DML insert, update, delete) in Oracle.  • Designed and implemented a Cassandra NoSQL based database and associated RESTful web service that persists high-volume user profile data for vertical teams.  • Worked on highly advanced and user interface design and development using Angular 2/4/ Js, NodeJS, HTML5 and CSS3.  • Working on development of ecommerce platform for multi tenants built in Java(SpringBoot) and Angular JS/React.  • Handled operations and maintenance support for AWS cloud resources which includes launching, maintaining, troubleshooting, Elastic Load Balancers (ELB) and Relational Database Services (RDS).  • Performed form validations using reactive forms from Angular7.0 framework.  • Using advanced level of HTML5, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS3 and pure CSS layouts. Implemented application level persistence using Hibernate and Spring. Developed various UI (User Interface) components using Struts (MVC), JSP, and HTML.  • Used Angular4 to develop client-side web application which included dealing with data.  • Implemented Servlets, JSP and Ajax to design the user interface.  • Developed Interactive web pages using AJAX, JavaScript, jQuery.  • Used the basic principles of MVC to incorporate the Angular7 framework to build client side application.  • Interaction with Oracle database implemented using Hibernate.  • Used EJBs to implement the business logic.  • Implemented various routing mechanisms in the webpage using AngularJS.  • Wrote Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface.  • Automation of Web Services Testing using SOAP UI 5.0.0.  • Resolving User Interface issues using various front-end technologies such as HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, Bootstrap, jQuery and AJAX.  • Experience with Spring MVC, SpringBoot.  • Configured an AWS Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) and Database Subnet Group.  • Used a MicroServices with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST and Rabbit MQ or Apache Kafka message brokers.  • Involved in implementing the JMS ( Java messaging service) for asynchronous communication.  • Backend application layer is implemented using EJB (Enterprise Java Bean) in WebLogic Application server environment and also creates microservices architecture.  • Deployment of application in Tomcat server.  • Developed application using Java/J2EE technologies - SpringBoot, PCF and Microsoft Azure.  • Experience in resolving issues in the production server.  • Involved in improving the existing design by minimizing dependencies between the layers with the help of design patterns.  • Involved in procedures and functions modifications.  • Involved in DB Design and Application design for Play Back Mock.    Environment: J2EE, Web Services, Springs, Hibernate, XML, XSD, Oracle 10g,AWS, Tomcat, HTML, CSS, JSON, jQuery, AJAX, JMS, SOA, Servlets, JSP, JAXWS, Unix, Angular JS, Angular4. J2EE Developer Kate Spade - New York, NY July 2017 to March 2018 NYC, NY July 2017 - Mar 2018  This project was an Ecommerce web-based application which allowed the customer to get a view of all the products in the store and buy them online. The application mainly dealt with the online payment and billings. It provides a search feature which uses Regular Expression or pattern matching with a user interface called Search box through which consumers can access and view latest and top selling products/offers. It uses Secure Good payment Gateway solution for customer to make a payment.  Role: J2EE Developer  Responsibilities:  • Worked on the development and testing of the infotainment module using Agile (SCRUM) methodologies.  • Used Java 8 features like lambda expressions for communicating between business layer and database, stream API for Bulk Data Operations on Collections using both streams and parallel streams.  • Developed the Product Builder UI screens using Angular-JS, Node JS, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript and Bootstrap.  • Worked on requirement gathering and providing use cases for business, functional & technical requirements.  • Developed the hotel management system aimed to manage the services of guests from arrival to departure in the hotel.  • System was developed using Java/J2EE technology working closely with the core team and a scrum master.  • Developed applications using Angular2/4/6, Java8 and new features of java (lambda expressions).  • Used ExpressJS to route different endpoints, made RESTful services to manipulate data in MySQL.  • Create new SpringBoot microServices and deploying to PCF.  • Used Spring core annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST API's and Spring Boot for micro-services.  • Design and developed the application using framework Angular 2 with HTML5, CSS3 and Typescript.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) like EC2, S3, cloud watch and Elastic Bean Stalk for code deployment.  • Used Spring framework to achieve loose coupling between the layers thus moving towards Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) exposed through Restful Services.  • Designed and developed various modules of the application with Spring MVC architecture and Spring Bean Factory using IOC, AOP concepts.  • Participated in requirement gathering and framework implementation sessions through Agile TDD methodology.  • Developed and delivered SOAP based Web Services and used Apache-CXF and SOAP UI to test the services  • Involved in creating and Deployment of REST API and Microservices in Java J2EEE using Spring Boot.  • Implementation of authentication for Restful web services using Spring Boot Security Starter.  • Developing the application for incident creation and retrieving the events using restful web services with spring Boot.  • Worked extensively on spring boot for building web service.  • Analyzed the Node.JS server structure in legacy project, then mimicked the REST service by using java JAX-WS API and did the corresponding configurations.  • Maintained source code in GIT Repository.  • Implemented Angular 2/4/ Router to enable navigation from one view to another.  • Implemented RESTful Web services in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) to retrieve data from client side and made REST API calls from AngularJS and parsed the data to client and handled the security and Authorization using Spring Security and OAuth authentication protocol respectively.  • Utilized Node.js to create a fast and efficient chat server.  • Developed strategies and supported tools to create an efficient integration and release process using Jenkins.  • Responsible for the overall layout design that meet cross-device compatibility using Bootstrap, color scheme of the web site using HTML5, and CSS3 and Responsible for creating detailed wire frames and process flows.  • Developed a Micro-service architecture using Spring-Boot frame structure and used Rest API based HTTP gateway to communicate between services.  • Worked concurrently with QA team to understand and fix the bugs through a trouble ticket system.  Environment: Java 8, Spring Boot, Microservices, Node JS, Ajax, AWS,Git, Jenkins, Web Services, SoapUI, JSON, Log 4j, Agile, Windows. J2EE Developer Rage Frameworks Inc - Boston, MA September 2016 to July 2017 Java, JDK 1.7, J2EE, Core Java, JDBC, Ajax, JSP, HTML5, JSP, Spring MVC and Spring IOC, Hibernate, JavaScript, jQuery, Web services, JUnit, Huddle, JSON, XML, Maven, Agile, STS, Unix, Rally)  Responsibilities:  ? Developed the presentation layer using CSS3, HTML5, XML, Bootstrap, JSTL, JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, jQuery and Angular to enhance functionality and user experience of Amex Merchant Financing application.  ? JavaScript used for client-side validation and Java for the server side.  ? Agile Rally is used for the task& bug tracking tool.  ? In an Agile development environment, followed SCRUM approaches during the implementation of most projects.  ? Expertise in using source code control systems such as SVN, Huddle, and Jenkins for maintaining versions across various releases for Merchant Financing application.  ? Created and configured the continuous delivery for deploying Microservices using Jenkins CI server.  ? Implemented Angular 2/4/ Router to enable navigation from one view to another.  ? Worked with the Apache Web server for configuring HTTPS connection and load balancing.  ? Configured Jenkins with Maven for continuous integration into various environments.  ? Developed application using JDK 1.7& Eclipse IDE based development environment.  ? Experience in Performance and Scalability tools like MAT.  ? Developed the applications under Agile and SCRUM methodologies & Microservices architecture.  ? Applications are designed using Restful API. Used Postman for web services Testing.  ? Developed annotation-based Spring web services and annotation-based auto wiring of POJOs.  ? Participated in Peer code reviews.  ? Yodlee for external bank account verification & Apigee gateway for two way authentication between external applications.  ? Dynamically generated the authentication UI for different bank accounts based on Yodlee response.  ? Developing test cases using JUnit to perform unit testing.  ? Perform unit testing, system testing and integration test.  ? Used Log4J for logging the activities of the applications.  ? Using MS SQL Server 2008 to manage and store data into the relational database.  ? Developed SQL queries, stored procedures, triggers and views for database operations with MSSQL databases.  ? Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design and coding utilizing spring (IOC & AOP) and Spring MVC architecture and Hibernate 4.x.  ? Deployed the applications on Tomcat server, and also involved in monitoring and debugging/ troubleshooting the applications on the Linux environment by reviewing the application log files. Java Developer SoftVan - Ahmedabad, Gujarat September 2013 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis, Design, and Implementation of software applications using Java, J2EE, XML and XSLT and WebServices (SOAP, WSDL).  • Developed Façade classes to encapsulate the business logic and hide the implementation details of the data access classes and EJBs.  • Involved in Java Multithreading to cascade multiple changes on multiple records in only one transaction and developed a batch process framework.  • Involved in creating and Deployment of REST API and Micro Services in Java J2EEE using Spring Boot.  • Integrated Spring DAO for data access using Hibernate, used HQL and SQL for querying databases.  • Developed User Interface having animations and effects using JSF, JavaScript and HTML.  • Developed Core Java classes and methods for handling data from databases.  • Developed the presentation layer using JSP, HTML and client-side validations using JavaScript.  • Apache Camel is used for routing.  • Used Hibernate to store the persistence data into the Oracle database and wrote HQL to access the data from the database.  • Involved in coding, code reviews, Junit testing, Prepared and executed Unit Test Cases.  • Used Log4j for External Configuration Files and debugging.  • Designed various tables required for the project in Oracle 11g database and used the Stored Procedures in the application.  Environment: J2EE, JSP, Java, spring, Servlets, JMS, Hibernate, MVC, DAO, Spring Boot, Eclipse, HTML, DHTML, CSS, AJAX, XML, Junit, EJB, Jboss, Multi-Threading, WebLogic, SOAP, GIT, SQL, Oracle and Windows. Java Developer Global Logic - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2012 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Understanding of the business functionality and business rules to be followed during the execution of the projects.  • Involved in coding for new enhancements.  • Followed Agile methodology, interacted directly with the client, provide/take feedback on the features, suggest/implement optimal solutions, and tailor application to customer needs.  • Involved in Development, Testing and Deployment phases.  • Used multi-threading on UI as well as on backend side.  • Implemented code MVC framework using JSP's, Java Beans and Servlets.  • Implemented Struts framework for the development of applications web flow.  • Developed JSP, JSTL, Servlets, AJAX, JavaScript, DHTML codes for the GUI pages.  • Unit testing and Integration testing is done with Junit Test Cases. Education B.E. in (Electronics & Communication Engineering), RTMNU, Maharashtra, India Silicon Valley University - San Jose, CA Master's in Computer Science Silicon Valley University - San Jose, CA Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate Additional Information Technical Skills:  J2EE Technologies Core Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, EJB, JMS, Web Services  Servers Tomcat, WebLogic, WebSphere, JBOSS  Databases SQL Server, Oracle, MySQL, Cassandra  J2EE Frameworks  MVC Architecture, Spring Framework, Jakarta Struts, GWT (Google web Toolkit), Hibernate, Apache Axis, Web Services (Restful, SOAP, WSDL).    Versioning Tools GIT, SVN  Scripts Java Script,  Markup Language XML, XSLT, HTML  Tools Git, Eclipse IDE, Net Beans  Design Tools Rational Rose, Visual Paradigm  J2EE Pattern Singleton, Value List Handler, Service Locator, Factory Pattern, Front Controller, Data Access Object  Operating System Windows Variants, UNIX, Linux