Sr. Java/PL/SQL Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span>/PL/SQL <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java/PL/SQL Developer - SEI Investments Innovative Senior Java Developer with around 8+ years of IT experience of in all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) which includes translation of requirements into functional and technical specifications, Designing, Developing, Testing Implementation & Post Production support using development methodologies like Waterfall, Agile/Scrum, TDD in Banking/Finance domain.    • Hands on experience in JAVA, JEE, JSP, Servlets, REST Web Services, Hibernate, Spring, Struts, JavaScript and AJAX technologies in design, coding, performance tuning, testing, maintenance and support of software applications.  • Expertise in developing and implementing Web applications using Java/J2EE Technologies including XML, Networking, Threads, IO, Servlets, JNDI, JDBC, Struts, JMS, EJB 3.0/2.x, Java Beans, Spring, Hibernate and SOAP/REST web services.  • Experienced in designing the Front end pages using scripting languages like HTML, DHTML, CSS, Java script, JQuery, JSF, AJAX.  • Extensive experience of Java & J2EE Design Patterns like MVC, Singleton, Session Facade, Factory, Producer Consumer, DAO, DTO, Business Delegate, Factory, Abstract Factory, Service Locator  • In depth knowledge on core java concepts such as OOPS, Collections, Threading, generics, Exception handling, Multi-Threading, Execution services, concurrent utilities, File IO, Garbage Collection and Serialization.  • Possess good experience in designing and developing SOA based interface and web services (SOAP, WSDL, UDDI) using Apache Axis2 and RESTful web services in java with JAX-RS reference implementation Jersey.  • Good Knowledge and experience working with applications developed using Object Relational Mapping frameworks like Hibernate and MVC frameworks like Struts and Spring and its subsidiary modules such as Spring MVC, Spring, and Spring AOP.  • Experience implementing Enterprise Java Bean (EJB) technology as a middle layer for communication with database servers.  • Good experience of writing SQL Queries, PL/SQL, JPA that includes Procedures, functions, triggers, cursors and packages.  • Experience with ORM mapping tools like Hibernate, which implements Java Persistence API (JPA).  • Experience in working with application servers like Web Logic and Apache Tomcat. Hands on experience in configuring and using Ant build tools.  • Expert in using version control tools such as such as Tortoise SVN, GIT and Bit Bucket.  • Experienced in writing and implementing unit test cases using Junit and Mockito.  • Strong experience on various development environments (IDE Tools) like Eclipse, Netbeans, PL/SQL Developer. Good experience in unit testing, Integration testing and User Acceptance testing using JUNIT.  • Experience in writing developer test cases, preparing Scope & traceability Matrix.  • Experience in using Check styles & Find Bugs to write code efficiently that ease maintenance and reduces code reviews and executing test coverage using EMMA tool and regression testing tool like Fitness. Work Experience Sr. Java/PL/SQL Developer SEI Investments - Oaks, PA July 2010 to Present Project: Client Portfolio Management    SEI is redefining Wealth Management. SEI investment infrastructure platforms, solutions and services can help clients remain relevant and help them achieve lasting success. SEI is serving various sections of industry ranging from Asset Managers, Banks & Wealth Management Firms, Financial Advisors, and Institutional Investors etc Client Portfolio Management is a division which manages to build web applications that are part of this whole system like orders, bulk orders, releasing orders to street, compound orders, strategy associations for portfolios, investment classifications, cash drift, overdraft applications to mention a few.    Responsibilities:  • Achieving the functionality and design through java programming language  • Developed the GUIs using HTML, CSS, JSP, Java script, jQuery framework Components.  • Used Restful web services to consume the data from different projects  • Used JPA named queries concept to retrieve data from the database and integrate with Spring MVC to interact with back end persistence system (Oracle).  • Request and Response mapping using Spring (AOP) from and to the application server by annotation based spring configuration in Eclipse IDE.  • Utilized core J2EE design patterns such as DTO (Data Transfer Object), DAO in the implementation of the services.  • Maintain high-quality of RESTful services and general services implemented REST web Services using Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Struts spanning across various applications  • Worked with XML to exchanges messages through JMS among servers to retrieve information about customer details  • Involved in development of cloud based services using spring boot, pivotal cloud foundry  • Used MOCKITO to develop test cases for java bean components and test them through TestNG framework. And used Code coverage plug-ins like SonarQube to improve the coverage and quality of code.  • Developed various test cases to test the functionality for E2E (End-to-End) flow of application like fitness.  • Developing SQL stored procedure and prepared statements for updating and accessing data from database.  • Used ANT to build and deploy application onto Weblogic Application Server.  • Also worked in Production support analyzed issues and fixed by writing SQL scripts and java code.  • Used RALLY tracking tool to manage and track the issues reported by QA and prioritize and take Action based on the severity.  • Involved in training team members with the application and business functionality.  • Used GIT & Bit Bucket for maintaining the component and for release and version management.    Environment: Java1.7, Spring 3.2.3, Hibernate 3.0/4.0, JPA, HTML5, CSS3, RESTFUL Web Services, XML, JSP, JMS, Eclipse Neon, Mockito, JUnit, Windows, JSON, Oracle 9i/10g/11g/12i, Weblogic 8/12c, Rally, Git, Bit bucket, SONAR. Education Bachelor of Science in Applied Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering West Bengal University of Technology - Kolkata, West Bengal 2009 Skills ECLIPSE, EJB, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, JAX, JAXB, JAXP, JAX-WS, JMS, JNDI, jQuery, JSP, JSTL, SERVLETS, STRUTS, API, DESIGN PATTERNS, Git, JAVASCRIPT, PLSQL, PL SQL, PL-SQL