Java/J2EE Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/J2EE Developer - Secureworks Inc Atlanta, GA • Around 9 Years of IT professional experience with full project lifecycle development in Java and Web technologies, Requirements analysis, and Design, Development, Testing, Deployment and production support of software applications.  • Expertise in web UI development using HTML, DHTML, CSS, Java Script, Angular-JS, Bootstrap, JSP and Struts Tag Library.  • Experience in Design, Development and Implementation of multi-tier thin/thick client web based applications using Object Oriented Methodologies.  • Extensive experience with both core and advanced Java technologies which includes Java, XML, JavaScript, JEE, JSP, EJB 1.1/2.0/3.0, JDBC, Struts, Struts2, Servlets, JMS, JSF, JSF My Faces, Rich Faces, Prime Faces, Ice Faces, JPA, Java API for XML Web Services, Spring and Hibernate.  • Extensive knowledge in using JavaScript Frameworks like JQuery, Angular-JS, JSON and DOJO.  • Experience working in Health Care and Banking industries.  • Extensive knowledge and implementation skills in Spring MVC framework (Core, Context, AOP, MVC, Security, Batch, Boot), JSF Framework.  • Experience in utilizing open-source frameworks such as AngularJS, NodeJS, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, JSF and Jquery.  • Experienced in MEAN stack development (MongoDB, Express.JS, Angular.JS & Node.JS).  • Experience writing angular.js code for developing Single page applications (SPA), used several in built language core directives, expressions and modules.  • Extensive experience with Angular JS, directives, and services to interface with both restful and legacy network services also DOM applications. Extensive experience on modern front-end template frameworks for JavaScript including Bootstrap, JQuery, Angular JS etc.  • Experience working with distributed n-tier applications using Java and J2EE technologies in areas such as Insurance, Financial Services and HealthCare.  • Hands-on experience in Consuming RESTful Web services using AJAX (Angular $http, $resource and jQuery) to exchange (request / responses) information with databases such as MySQL and Oracle.  • Strong programming skills using Java1.6/1.5, Spring, Hibernate, JPA 2, JTA, JNDI, JSP, Servlets, Java Beans, JSTL, JDBC.  • Hands on Experience developing SOAP and REST web services in Java using JERSEY and APACHE CXF.  • Extensive experience in using various design patterns such as MVC (Model-View-Controller), Singleton, Session Facade, DAO, DTO, and Business Delegate in the development of Multi-Tier distributed Enterprise Applications.  • Implemented SOA architecture with web services using REST, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and XML.  • Extensive experience in various Agile methodologies like Test Driven Development (TDD) and SCRUM.  • Strong Hands on Experience with IBM MQ, Active MQ Series and JMS for communications between middleware components.  • Experience in utilizing with JS library and designing dynamic and browser compatible pages using Jquery, JavaScript and Angular JS.  • Experience in developing HTML and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation within the forms.  • Experience working with Responsive web design (RWD) using bootstrap.  • Strong Knowledge in scripting technologies like Python, Scala, Shell, Groovy on Grails and Perl.  • Experience working with Amazon Web Services (EC2, S3, RDS and EBS), Elastic Beanstalk.  • Design, develop and test ESB infrastructure on the JBOSS ESB platform.  • Hands on experience with various Application Servers and Web Servers including IBM Web Sphere, BEA Web logic, JBoss, Tomcat server with wide variety of development tools like IBM WSAD/ RAD / RSA, My Eclipse and NetBeans.  • Having good RDBMS concepts knowledge and worked with MySQL 5.0, Oracle 9i/10g, SQL Server.  • Proficient in SQL, PL/SQL developed Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions and Packages besides writing DDL, DML and Transaction queries with development tools like TOAD and Rapid SQL.  • Expertise knowledge in building applications using Rational Unified Process (RUP) , UML and OOAD.  • Involved in developing Test plans, Test Cases (Manual/Automated), Test Procedures and white-box and black-box testing  • Experience working with Oracle coherence for Sharing and Managing data in a cluster using Java collection classes.  • Experienced in implementing EnterpriseApplications with full life cycle of software development.  • Experience in using Log4J, Version Control using SVN, TFS, GIT and CVS.  • Extensive experience in coding using SQL, PL/SQL, Procedures/Functions, Triggers and Packages.  • Experience with unit testing using Junit and writing build scripts using ANT.  • Good knowledge on application builds and deployments using Hudson/Jenkins  • Experience working with MAVEN & GRADLE.  • Extensive experience working with Continuous Integrations tools Jenkins, Bug tracking and Issue Tracking using JIRA.  • Strong Knowledge working with Non-Relational Databases like MongoDB (Nosql).  • Experience in installing, deploying and testing with multiple Application Servers like WebSphere 8.5/6.1/5.1/4.1, WebLogic 8.1/7.0, Express Node.js, Jboss Application Server and Tomcat web container.  • Interacted with AEM team to administer environments.  • Worked on different OS like UNIX (Sun Solaris, AIX), Linux, and Windows.  • Good team player with ability to solve problems, organize and prioritize multiple tasks.  • Excellent communication and inter-personal skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java/J2EE Developer Secureworks Inc - Atlanta, GA September 2018 to Present Project Description: Secureworks Inc. is a United States-based subsidiary that provides information security services, protecting its customers' computers, networks and information assets from malicious activity such as cybercrime    Responsibilities:  * Designed and development applications using Rational Unified Process (RUP), UML and OOAD.  * Created Use cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams using Rational Rose. Designed and developed the project using MVC design pattern.  * Developed user management screens using JSF framework, business components using Spring framework and DAO classes using Hibernate framework for persistence management and involved in integrating the frameworks for the project.  * Developed UI for Customer Service Modules and Reports using JSF, JSP's, Prime Faces, Ajax4JSF framework (Ajax), JavaScript and Backing Beans.  * Implemented J2EE design patterns such as Session Facade, Factory, DAO, DTO, and MVC.  * Designed & Developed persistence service using Hibernate framework.  * Hibernate used as the ORM mapping tool and worked with Hibernate Query Language (HQL).  * Wrote Hibernate configuration file, Hibernate mapping files and define persistence classes to persist the data into Oracle Database.  * Developed the presentation n-Tier using JSP, Java Script and HTML.  * Worked on advanced Hibernate associations with multiple levels of Caching, lazy loading.  * Involved in writing JSF Backing Beans for controlling the UI and writing custom components and validations.  * Implemented Ajax using Ajax4JSF Framework and nested taglibs API along with other standard taglibs in the application, as a better approach for screen development and reusability of visual components in the JSP pages.  * Implemented business logic in Middle Tier using pluggable components, which were specified in the customized xml documents using Spring framework.  * Consumed restful web services using apache HttpClient for the data coming from external systems.  * Involved in designing data schema and development of SOAP web services with Axis implementation and REST web services with JAX-RS.  * Consumed SOAP/ JAX-WS based web services using Spring framework and used SOAP UI for testing these services.  * Created Logging aspects for auditing and logging purposes using Spring AOP and implemented security for the application using Spring Security.  * Consumed SOAP and REST web services to get the persisted data from different databases.  * REST (JAX-RS) web services have been developed to be consumed by middleware module to push the communication center messages into web module.  • Was responsible for deployments using IBM WebSphere application server.  * Configured and Integrated JSF, Spring and Hibernate frameworks.  * Responsible for writing Java code to convert HTML files to PDF file using Apache FOP.  * Developed Message Driven Beans (MDBs) for receiving and processing data from IBM MQ Series using JMS.  * Involved in UI testing using Cucumber and Selenium.  * Rational Clear Quest used for defects, change tracking across the application.  * Designed and developed direct live interfaces to handle multiple systems within the bank to subscribe the data in real-time.  * Involved in the performance tuning of PL/SQL statements.  * Developed database triggers and procedures to update the real-time cash balances.  * Worked closely with the testing team in creating new test cases and also created the use cases for the module before the testing phase.  * Involved in writing JUNIT test cases and day to day builds and deployments using GRADLE.  * Implemented web services API using HTTP.  * Coordinated work with DB team, QA team, Business Analysts and Client Reps to complete the client requirements efficiently.    Environment: Java 6/J2EE, JMS, JNDI, JSP, JSF, My Faces, Prime Faces, Spring, Tiles, Hibernate, HTML, DHTML, IBM MQ Series, CSS, Web Sphere 5.1.2, Gradle, Clear Quest, Oracle9i, AJAX, JSTL, Eclipse, Junit, JavaScript, VSS. Java/J2EE Developer Sodexo - Buffalo, NY August 2016 to September 2018 Responsibilities:  * Involved in gathering business requirements, analyzing the project and creating use Cases and Class Diagrams. Used OOAD for building applications.  * Interacted coordinated with the Design team, Business analyst and end users of the system.  * Created sequence diagrams, collaboration diagrams, class diagrams, usecases and activity diagrams using Rational Rose for the Configuration, Cache & logging Services.  * Designed and developed the project using MVC design pattern.  * Developed front end using Struts framework, business components using EJB's.  * Implementing Spring/ Tiles based framework to present the data to the user.  * Used Spring Batch for scheduling and maintenance of batch jobs. Deployed the application in various environments DEV, QA and also Production.  * Used the Spring JDBC for data retrieval from the database for various inquiries. Wrote complex SQL queries to retrieve data from the Oracle database.  * Developed user stories using Core Java and spring.  * Created the web UI using Struts, JSP, Servlets and Custom tags.  * Deployment of Application in the JBoss Server environment using ANT tool using Struts architecture with the JSP Client.  * Implemented Spring framework in the presentation tier for all the essential control flow, business level validations and for communicating with the business layer.  * Worked on Spring Web Flow on Spring MVC to build an application from scratch using Spring XML configurations, annotations. Wrote controllers to handle incoming requests and send output to the UI Configured.  * Created SOAP web service for processing additional information.  * Followed top down approach to implement SOAP based web services.  * Tested SOAP web services using SOAP UI.  * Used SOAP for Web Services by exchanging XML data between applications over HTTP.  * Developed the XSL to convert and compare the SOAP to simple XML and vice versa.  * Developed SOAP Web services for getting information from third party.  * Configured Struts Dyna Action Forms, Message Resources, Action Messages, Action Errors, Validation.xml, and Validator-rules.xml.  * Designed and developed Caching and Logging service using Singleton pattern, Log4j.  * Coded different action classes in struts responsible for maintaining deployment descriptors like struts-config, ejb-jar and web.xml using XML.  * Designed and Developed front-end using struts framework.  * Used JSP, JavaScript, JSTL, EL, Custom Tag libraries, Tiles and Validations provided by struts framework.  * Wrote authentication and authorizationclasses and manage it in the frontcontroller for all the users according to their entitlments.  * Developed and deployed Session Beans and Entity Beans for database updates.  * Implemented caching techniques, wrote POJO classes for storing data and DAO's to retrieve the data and did other database configurations using EJB 3.0.  * Used IBatis for decoupling the mappings from the application logic by packaging the SQL statements in XML configuration files.  * Developed stored procedures and complex packages extensively using PL/SQL and shell programs.  * Used Struts-Validator frame-work for all front-end Validations for all the form entries.  * Implemented RESTFul web services API using HTTP and REST principles.  * Design and development of JAXB components for transfer objects.  * Prepared EJB deployment descriptors using XML.  * GIT used for defects, change tracking across the application.  * Involved in Configuration and Usage of Apache Log4J for logging and debugging purposes.  * Wrote Action Classesto service the requests from the UI, populate business objects & invoke EJBs.  * Used JAXP (DOM, XSLT), XSD for XML data generation and presentation  * Wrote Junit test classes for the services and prepared documentation.    Environment: Java 5/J2SE , JSP, Spring, JAXB, XSLT, DOM, XML, EJB 3.0, WebServices, JNDI, J2EE, RSA, JBoss 6.0 , Ratonal Rose, GIT, Oracle9i, Junit, IBatis, JavaScript, DHTML. Sr. FullStack Java Developer Cigna, Franklin - Lake, NJ, US July 2014 to August 2016 Project Description: Cigna offers Medicare and Medicaid products and health, life and accident insurance coverages primarily to individuals in the U.S. and selected international markets. In addition to its ongoing operations described above, Cigna also has certain run-off operations, including a Run-off Reinsurance segment.    Responsibilities:  * Designed and developed the application using Agile Methodology and followed TDD and Scrum.  * Developed the Product Builder UI screens using Angular-JS.  * Developed Angular-JS components such as controllers, Services, filters, models and used Httpservice for rest service invocation.  * Creating custom use modules and components, which extend the elements and modules of core Angular-JS.  * Developed custom directives (for simultaneous file uploads) and created Angular JS services to consume in controllers.  * Configured routing in the single page application promoting rich user experience.  * Designed and developed the Simulator API for Amazon S3.  * Maintained AWS infrastructure and developed back end services.  * Used AWS SQS with JMS API for asynchronous communication by keeping messages in the Message queue.  * Developed unit testing for angular components using Mocha, Chai, Gulp, Karma, Istanbul and Protractor.  * Created custom angular filters to filter the data based on user selection in bootstrap dropdowns.  * Implemented angular form validations and used bootstrap to show error, warning and info messages  * Configured Spring security in the application with LDAPTemplate and access controls using Spring security annotations based on user roles.  * Developed Spring Jersey resources for various HTTP methods and to send the requested data in JSON format to the web interface.  * Implemented AngularJS filter to make the data searchable and sortable.  * Used Angular JS framework for building web-apps and is highly efficient with PHP framework.  * Developed front-end code with Ajax call in AngularJS and jquery to retrieve data as JSON Object from controllers in back-end RESTful Server, then display the well organized result in web pages by writing AngularJS controller, directives, services, and route providers.  * Created Collections and documents and performed CRUD operations with Mongo repositories.  * Developed API using Node.js to allocate access to data in SQL, MongoDB.  * Written variety of filter queries in MongoDB to retrieve JSON data and passed to service layer.  * Developed ORM mappings using Hibernate and wrote Criteria, Named and HQL queries for data retrievals in the DAO layer.  * Implemented JAX Web services by applying SOA concepts in conjunction with SOAP.  * Used Web Services for sending and getting data from different applications using WSDL messages, such as task details from Work distribution, Getting the status on the same, etc.  * Used Apache AXIS on Eclipse Web Tools platform for developing creating the Web Services. Integrated with Spring IOC while implementing Web services.  * Created Node.js Express server combined with Socket.io to build MVC framework from AngularJS Front End to MongoDB Back End to provide chatting service.  * Used Spring declarative transaction management and Spring Batch and scheduling for backend data processing.  * Implemented Normalization rules using regular expressions for minor parties.  * Implemented RESTFul web services API using HTTP and REST principles.  * Created features including Single Sign On with existing client website and a REST API to expose manipulation functionality to external clients using AngularJS.  * Built RESTful API server to achieve CRUD operations for posts using Jersey, JAX-RS, JSON, spring REST using MEAN stack(MongoDB, Express, AngularJS, Node.js) Technologies.  * Works with business analysts and coordinates with them to make sure the data is being populated properly.  * Involved in writing JUNIT test cases and day to day builds and deployments using MAVEN and Jenkins.  * Involved in working, updating and closing the tasks created in Microsoft Team Foundation Server.  * Involved in converting the docket conversion system is to into XML that can be loaded into the Novus system.  * Worked with WAS admin to deploy applications on Websphere Application Server.  * Involved in Parsing the HTML and ENCRYPTED Data in to readable format and generate XML.  * Used Node.js for creating event driven frameworks in scalable networks.  * Formulated template with JSON data from Rest API endpoint using AngularJS routing services and used its Cache services in it.  * Developed a modularized application using n-tier J2EE architecture, application server, spring framework, Hibernate.  * Worked with AEM team to administer environments to ensure configuration is optimized as per requirements.  * Did the application support on different environments from QA to Production.  * Was responsible for analyzing the issues, providing technical & functional support to the users and fix them.  * Involved in Writing and Executing SQL Scripts and responsible for fixing the issues and monitoring it to make sure it releases in time.  * Day to Day Scrum meetings to update and discuss issues.  * Involved in fixing the bugs biweekly iteration and publishing the Dockets to all Environments.    Environment: Java1.8, Spring 4, Spring boot, Angular-JS 1.3, Node.js, Angular-UI, Jersey, Mocha, Chai, Karma, Istanbul,Gulp, Ldap, Hibernate, Agile, Websphere,Oracle11g, Unix, Eclipse, Brackets, TFS, SQL, Maven,Jenkins, Mongo DB,Webservices,JUnit. Sr. Full Stack Java Developer Sherwin Williams - Cleveland, OH June 2012 to July 2014 Description: Americas Group, known as Sherwin-Williams Paints, was the first section of the company to be established, in 1866. These stores market and sell Sherwin-Williams branded architectural paints and coatings, industrial and marine products, and original equipment manufacturer product finishes and similar items.  Responsibilities:  * Designed and developed the application using Agile methodology and followed TDD, Scrum, pair programming.  * Wrote Technical design document with the class, sequence, activity diagrams in each use case.  * Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using Jquery, JavaScript and Angular JS.  * Implemented J2EE design patterns such as Session Facade, Factory, DAO and DTO.  * Worked with Angular JS MVC framework including authoring complex directives, services, controllers and filters.  * Customized Angular JS filters in several locations to get the required output.  * Implemented Angular Controllers to maintain each view data.  * Utilized Angular.JS UI-bootstrap components like time picker, directives, model pop-ups, ng-grid, router, progress bar, ng-Idle, ng-Upload.  * Implemented flexible routing and nested using Angular.JS-ui-router. Used Bootstrap and media queries to create a Responsive Webpage across different screen-sizes.  * Integrated the service call with UI using $http and $resources which are substitutes for AJAX in angular.  * Developed various reusable Helper and Utility classes that are used across all the modules of the application.  * Designed and developed Business components and Integrated with Spring framework.  * Wrote data Components for Plan Setup, wrote and called StoredProcedures using Java, HQL, Hibernate.  * Involved in configuring and integrating Spring and Hibernate frameworks.  * Involved in design and implementation of MVC architecture in different modules.  * Responsible for writing utility classes, UI development using JSP, CSS3, HTML, JavaScript, Angular.  * Integrated business layer using Hibernate with Spring DAO.  * Used Angular JS Factories and Services to make Ajax calls or Restful Calls to get data in JSON Format.  * Used Angular JS Directives like ng-app, ng-model, ng-init for initialization of Angular JS application data.  * Played key role in the design and development of application using J2EE and Rest web service(Jersey frameworks) for Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) with JSON.  * Responsible for working on consuming and producing SOA/Web Services.  * Designed and Developed web services using JAX-WS, SOAP, JAXB, Apache CXF. Exposing and consuming the web services to the downstream applications using Apache CXF and Apache camel.  * Used AngularJS $http, ngResources services for accessing content from Rest web services, provided custom services to integrate database with view pages along with pagination, Sorting of data, deep linking (AngularJS route service)  * Implemented Angular JS Service layer with utility functions to get data from back end using Rest based service calls and pass back to Angular Controllers.  * Designing user Interface using Angular UI components such as tabs, grids, dropdowns etc and configured the routing service using Angular-JS router.  * Developed REST service documentation using Swagger UI and developed test cases using Junit and Mockito framework.  * Developed REST exception handling controller advices to respond to bad requests and server side exceptions.  * Build REST web service by building Node.js Server in the back-end to handle requests sent from the front end jQuery Ajax calls.  * Created RESTful APIs in Express and returned logic through AngularJS data binding.  * Used MongoDB to import the data into and feed into web services and displayed it onto the browser.  * Used Spring Batch to build the POJO-based development approach of the Spring Framework.  * Wrote the DAO's to access the database using JDBC calls.  * Involved in writing REST Web services in Groovy/Grails wrapped by Jersey JAX-RS.  * Involved in using JPA ( Java Persistence API) frameworks and APIs such as JDO ( Java Data Objects) and Hibernate.  * Implemented Spring Bean Factory to create proxied object using AOP framework.  * Used AngularJS Global API to perform tasks like Comparing objects, Iterating objects and Converting data.  * Performed document and collection mappings with Spring and MongoTemplate.  * Implemented SOA architecture with Web Services using SOAP, WSDL and XML.  * Designed & developed LDAP Authentication & Authorization Service using Java, LDAP, JNDI.  * Involved in transforming XML data in to Java Objects using a JAXB binding tool.  * Responsible for configuring and deploying the builds on Tomcat Web Server.  * Involved in the Performance Tuning of the Application on client side.  * Used Angular JS $http service to read data from remote servers.  * Worked on JavaScript framework to augment browser based applications with MVC capability.  * Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation within the forms.  * Wrote notification service that executes daily, sends emails and escalations to participants.  * Involved in Unit & Integration Testing for different Modules in the application.  * Wrote build & deployment scripts using ANT, Maven, shell scripts and JACL on unix env.  * Used Oracle Coherence in Java Collection API to access and modify data, and the JavaBean event model to receive data change notifications.  * Did the application support on different environments from QA to Production. Was responsible for analyzing the issues, providing technical & functional support to the users and fix them.    Environment: J2EE/J2SE, Java 7.0, Java Script, Angular JS, Node.js, Spring Frame Work, Spring Batch, Hibernate, JDBC, JMS, Apache Axis 2.0, MongoDB, Tomcat Web server, LDAP, WSDL, SOA, SOAP, XML, HTML, Log 4j,RAD 7, Oracle, SunOS (UNIX), Sub Version , Maven and Windows 7. Java Developer Medix Dental - Kearney, NE May 2010 to June 2012 Responsibilities:  • Understanding Use requirements participating in design discussions, implementation feasibility analysis both at front-end and backend level, documenting requirements.  • Using RUP and Rational Rose, developed Use Cases, created Class, Sequence and UML diagrams.  • Application Modeling, developing Class diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Architecture / Deployment diagrams using IBM Rational Software Modeler and publishing them to web perspective with Java Doc.  • Participation did in Design Review sessions for development / implementation discussions.  • Designed & coded Presentation (GUI) JSP's with Struts tag libraries for Creating Product Service Components (Health Care Codes) using RAD.  • Developing Test Cases and unit testing using JUnit  • Coded Action classes, Java Beans, Service layers, Business delegates, to implement business logic with latest features of JDK1.5 such as Annotations and Generics.  • Extensive use of AJAX and JavaScript for front-end validations, and JavaScript based component development using Framework with cross browser support.  • Developed and implemented UI controls and APIs and Involved in the developing functions to acquire data from API server using AJAX  • Appropriate use of Session handling, data Scope levels within the application.  • Integrating Spring injections for DAOs to achieve Inversion of Control, updating Spring Configurations for managing Java objects using callbacks.  • Involved in making Spring and Hibernate enhancements to existing applications.  • Wrote authentication and authorization classes and manage it in the front controller for all the users according to their entitlements using Spring security.  • Implemented caching techniques, wrote POJO classes for storing data and DAO's to retrieve the data and did other database configurations using Spring.  • Application integration with Spring Web Services to fetch data from external Benefits application using SOA architecture, configuring WSDL based on SOAP specifications and marshalling and un-marshalling using JAXB  • Prepared and executed JUNIT test cases to test the application service layer operations before DAO integration  • Creating test environments with WAS for local testing using test profile. And interacting with Software Quality Assurance (SQA) end to report and fix defects using Rational Clear Quest.  • Creating views and updating code to IBM Rational Clear case for Source code control.  • Solving QA defects, scheduling fixes, providing support to production application.    Environment: Java: JDK 1.5, JSP, JSP Custom Tag libraries, JavaScript, AJAX, XSLT, XML, DOM4J 1.6, DHTML, Web Services, SOA, WSDL, SOAP, JAXB, IBM RAD, IBM WebSphere Application server, IBM DB2 8.1, UNIX, UML, IBM Rational Clear case, JMS, Spring Framework, PL/SQL, JUNIT 3.8, log4j 1.2, Ant 2.7. Education Bachelor's Skills Ajax (7 years), ANT (6 years), DHTML (5 years), HTML. (5 years), J2EE (7 years), Java (9 years), JUNIT (9 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (7 years), Model-View-Controller (7 years), MVC (7 years), Oracle (5 years), PL/SQL (5 years), Rational (5 years), Rational Rose. (5 years), SOA (6 years), SOAP (9 years), SQL (7 years), Unix (6 years), web services (9 years), WebSphere (5 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages Java(J2SE1.8/1.6/1.5 ,J2EE 6/5) , SQL, PL/SQL, UML2.0,  Technologies  JSP2.1/2.0/1.2, Servlets2.x, JavaBeans, JDBC, Struts2.x/1.x, RMI, EJB3.0/2.1, Hibernate3.x/2.x, Spring 3.0, Spring 4,SOA, JMS1.1, SAX and DOM Parsers, AJAX, JAXB2.1/2.0, JAXP1.x, LDAP, Sybase Power Designer, RESTful and SOAP web services    Web Technologies HTML/DHTML, XHTML1.1, JavaScript1.x, XML1.0, XSL, XSLT, CSS, Bootstrap, Angular-JS, Jquery  Development Tools (IDEs) Eclipse3.2/3.0/2.1.1, MyEclipse6.0/5.1.1, RAD7.0/6.0, WSAD5.x/ 4.x, NetBeans3.3, MS Visual Studio 2005, Brackets and Webstorm  Web/Application Servers Tomcat 7.x/6.x/5.x, WebLogic10.3/9.2/8.1/7.0, IBM WebSphere 8.x/7.x/6.x.  Design Patterns MVC, Front Controller, Session Façade, Singleton, Business Delegate and DAO patterns  Data Base Oracle 11g/10g/9i/8i, MS SQL Server 2005/2000, MySQL5.1/4.1, DB2 9.1/8.1/7.2, Mongo DB.  Platforms Windows, UNIX, LINUX  Methodologies Agile Methodology, RUP, Extreme Programming  Build Tools  Rational Rose, CVS, PVCS, Git, SVN, VSS, Clear Case, JIRA, Jenkins, JUnit, TestNG, Selenium, Cucumber, Jbehive, Mockito, IBM MQ, Log4j, ANT, Maven, Gradle, EC2, VPC, SNS, SQS.