Salesforce Developer Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span> Salesforce Developer - Apollo Global Management • Around 6 years of experience in application development, application security, integration, deployment, data migration and configuration, Involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Extensive experience in analysis, design and development of Business Applications with Salesforce CRM as the focus area.  • Hands on experience in Salesforce.com Development by developing the presentation layer in Visualforce and business logic in the ApexProgramming by creating/using the Classes, Triggers, Standard Controllers, Custom Controllers, Controller Extensions, S-Controls and Webservices API.  • Sound knowledge of Salesforce setup menu, Configuration, Custom Application Development, Administration, Data Migration and Deployment of applications to Force.com platform.  • Designed junction objects and implemented various advanced fields like Pick list, Custom Formula Fields, Field Dependencies, Validation Rules, Work Flows, sharing rules and Approval Processes for automated alerts, field updates, and email generation according to application requirements.  • Excellent experience working with multiple Salesforce organizations and migrating metadata between multiple environments of Salesforce using various tools like Eclipse IDE, Jenkins, and the Force.com native Change sets.  • Extensively worked on developing complex Apex classes, Triggers, Visual Force Pages, Apex Components and Controllers, Custom Settings and Custom Metadata types.  • Specialist in writing apex code by following best practices so that the code abides by the Governor rules of Salesforce.  • Good knowledge of Salesforce web services and experience in integrating Salesforce with technologies like Oracle, SAP, Workday and others using SOAP, REST and Bulk API's.  • Experience with web application development, including good experience with Java, as well as HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS, XML, and JSON.  • Experience using the query languages SOQL & SOSL for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Worked on communities and built robust Visualforce/Site.com pages for various portals  • Worked on designing and developing Lightning Community Builder and developed Lightning Components using aura framework.  • Sound knowledge on Salesforce setup menu, Configuration, custom Application Development, Administration, Data Migration and Deployment of applications to Force.com platform.  • Designed junction objects and implemented various advanced fields like Pick list, Custom Formula Fields, Field Dependencies, Validation Rules, Work Flows, sharing rules and Approval Processes for automated alerts, field updates, and Email generation according to application requirements.  • In depth understanding of CRM business processes like Forecasting, Campaign Management, Lead Management, Order Management, Account Management, and Case Management.  • Experience in data migration from ACT, Excel, MS outlook and Legacy Systems using Data Loader, Import Wizard, and Informatica Data Loader.  • Expertise in Server side programming/development using Java, JSP, Servlets, and XML and deploying in application servers Jbossand Weblogic.  • Good exposure in writing SQL and PL/SQL programming with DB2, Oracle and MS-SQL, MySQL Server.  • Expertise with Object Oriented Design (OOD), Analysis (OOA), based on Unified Modeling Language (UML) architecture.  • Involved in Functional, Regression, Integration, System and Performance testing of client server and web applications.  • Worked in Agile environment.  • Excellent communication, problem solving, debugging & programming skills, accustomed to working in both large and small team environments. Work Experience Salesforce Developer Apollo Global Management - New York, NY August 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked within the Marketing & Sales technology team as the only developer to design, develop and enhance key components of the Salesforce application.  • Headed the Lightning migration project of the Salesforce application. Developed nearly 35 new lightning components as part of the migration project.  • Developed advanced and user reactive lightning components using Charts.js library to show investment history of a given organization based on the years of transactions and fund types.  • Developed lightning components to display the company's Investor breakdown based on organization types, regions and the quarters in which the investments were made.  • Developed a lightning component to generate a backgrounder document in MS Word format following the company's branding with the information input by the user in Salesforce.  • Developed the project to link transactions to opportunities, which helps sales team users to track, the work they have done.  • Developed lightning components to create multiple tasks/activities from single place and associate them to respective opportunities and sales users.  • Worked closely with the business to capture functional requirements and develop components based on those requirements.  • Improved test code coverage by writing new test classes for the existing apex logic.  • Enhanced existing triggers using best practices in apex code.  • Developed SOAP based requests for communicating with Web services.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Apex Language, Data Loader, HTML, Java Script, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Sandbox data loading, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Windows.Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visual Force Pages, Custom Component, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Page Layouts, Security Controls, Web Services, WSDL, SOAP, Reports, Sandbox, Eclipse IDE Plug-in. Salesforce Developer Genesys - Indianapolis, IN February 2017 to July 2018 Responsibilities:  • Worked on maintaining the functional areas of accounts, contacts, leads, campaigns, opportunities, quotes, activities dashboards and also Process knowledge of Sales and Service Clouds  • Provided support ongoing Salesforce.com maintenance and administration services including periodic data cleansing, custom objects, workflow and triggers.  • Perform detailed analysis of business and technical requirements and developed the Apex classes using other Platform based technologies like Visualforce, Force.com IDE.  • Integrated with external system using Web Services Callouts for cleansing the Address and save the data in the pages of Salesforce.com.  • Integrated the SOAP and REST based Web Services for extracting the data from external systems to display in the pages of Salesforce.com.  • Experience as an administrator of both the Sales Cloud and the Service Cloud to implement and deliver  • Worked on designing and developing Lightning Community Builder and developed Lightning Components using aura framework.  • Assisting in migrating existing functionalities from Salesforce classic interface to lightning interface.  • Implemented Chatter, Chatter desktop developed public and private groups.  • Created Workflows, Approval processes, Communication templates, Validation rules and sharing rules.  • Organized Marketing Campaigns, Campaign Hierarchies, Lead Queries, Assignment rules, Web-to- Lead and Auto-Response rules.  • Worked on Service cloud, Sales Cloud, supported cases, developed workflows and triggers for automated case resolutions.  • Knowledge of WSDL, XML, web services SOAP API, REST API, Middleware both standard and apex based, force.com external callouts, Asynchronous classes, Batch Apex and Schedule Apex Programs.  • Modified existing profiles, roles, Object permissions and field permissions.  • Created new Record Types, page layouts, Validation rules for several objects.  • Customized page layouts for Opportunity, Contacts, and Accounts depending upon user roles, and groups.  • Created Force.com Sites for external users and configured public access to accommodate data access in visual force pages, and implemented Salesforce Chatter functionality for one to many business users.  • Knowledge in Writing Triggers and workflows, Customizing Error Pages for sites.  • Created Workflows, Approval processes, Validation rules and sharing rules.  • Organized Marketing AppExchange, Campaigns, Campaign Hierarchies, Lead Queries, Assignment rules, Web-to-Lead and Auto-Response rules.    Environment:Saleforce.com platform, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Apex Language, Data Loader, HTML, Java Script, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Sandbox data loading, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Windows. Salesforce Developer Verizon - Tampa, FL July 2016 to January 2017 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for supporting the day-to-day operations of a complex Salesforce.com (Unlimited Edition) implementation.  • Trouble shooting the existing issues in the environment.  • Customization using Apex and Visual Force.  • Created Custom Objects and fields for transactional and contractual information.  • Designed and deployed Custom tabs, Custom Objects, Components, Visual Force Pages, Entity-Relationship data model, validation rules, Approval Processes and Auto-Response Rules for automating business logic.  • Worked with standard Salesforce.com objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads and Opportunities.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, email alerts, and field updates.  • Implemented pick lists, dependent pick lists, lookups, master detail relationships, validation and formula fields to the custom objects.  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on record pages.  • Used field level security along with page layouts to manage access to certain fields.  • Used Force.com developer toolkit including Apex Classes, Apex Triggers and Visualforce pages to develop custom business logic.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visual Force Pages, Custom Component, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Page Layouts, Security Controls, Web Services, WSDL, SOAP, Reports, Sandbox, Eclipse IDE Plug-in. Java/J2EE developer InfoSoft Pvt. Ltd 2014 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Implemented Enterprise Java Beans and Servlets in WebLogic Server, including Entity Beans and Session Beans  • Created part of the database consisting of about 75 tables in MS SQL 6.5 using SQL statements.  • Performed unit testing for the code and written test cases for the shopping cart module and performed black box and white box testing for the module  • Participated in the partial release of the application into production with the application hosted at Level III.  • Creating Oracle objects like tables, types, packages, procedures and functions  • Monitored the error logs using Log4J and fixed the problems  • Preparation of Test Data and Test Cases for Unit Testing using Junit  • Used Rational Clear Case for version control and source code management  • Used Rational Clear Quest for tracking errors and bugs in the project source code    Environment: Java, JDBC, JSP, Servlets, EJB, JavaScript/HTML, SQL Server, and Web logic Server. Education Master's Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Jsp, Visual studio, C++, Gui, Html, Php, Visio, Xml, Ajax, Css, Dhtml, Web services, Apex, Sql, Tcp/ip, Force.com, Etl Links http://Salesforce.com Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Salesforce Technologies:  Apex Classes, Apex Triggers, SOQL, SOSL, Visual Force (Pages,  Components & Controllers), S-Controls, Apex Web Services, AJAX, Workflow & Approvals, Dashboards, Reports, Analytic Snapshots, Custom Objects, Force.com Eclipse IDE Plugin.    ETL Tools: Loader, Connect offline, Salesforce-to-Salesforce, Apex Explorer, Informatica.  Operating Systems: Windows XP/ VISTA/ NT/ 2000/ 2003, UNIX, Linux.  GUI and Tools: Eclipse, Force.com IDE, Apex Data Loader, NetBeans, Visio, ANTLR, Visual studio-6 and 2005.  Web Development: XML, HTML, DHTML, CSS, Visualforce.  Languages: C, C++, Java, J2EE, Shell, PHP, SQL, JSP, Assembly Language (8086), Apex.  Networking: TCP/IP, Protocol Stack.