Hybris Consultant Hybris Consultant Hybris Consultant - O'Rielly auto Parts Richmond, VA I have over 8+ years of experience as a full stack Java Developer and Hybris Consultant and I have worked on designing various Object Oriented Analysis and Design, Software Design Patterns and Hybris Platform coding principles.Capable of developing necessary and critical documentation for implementation including data design documentationIn-depth knowledge and ability to lead thought process for Classification Catalog Design and creating OOTB features of Hybris by reusing B2C and B2B Accelerators.  Summary  ? Experience in Hybris Multichannel E-commerce Suite, data structures, PCM, WCMS customization, migration, data import/export, setting of WCMS templates and algorithms and object oriented concepts.  ? Profound knowledge in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and familiar with SCRUM/Agile development methodology and workflow.  ? Experience in design and development of reusable enterprise systems and various web applications using Spring, Spring MVC, Hibernate, EJB, JSP, JMS, Servlets, JDBC, JNDI, AJAX, JSF, and RMI.  ? Hands-on experience in relational databases like Oracle 10g, DB2, MySQL, Sybase, MS SQL Server using SQL and PL/SQL.  ? Experience in developing single page application (SPA) with Responsive design concept using different JavaScript and CSS frameworks like Angular 2.0, React, Polymer, Bootstraps and Foundation.  ? Experience of working on CSS Preprocessors like LESS and SASS and maven along with JavaScript task runners like Grunt and bower.  ? Expertise in maintaining complex rich web applications and understanding and modifying existing code.  ? Quickly adapt to new environments, modern technologies and facing new challenges at the workplace.  ? Experience in working with RESTFUL web services using POSTMAN and called Rest web services through Angular Js to get JSON object and modified the response object to display on web pages.  ? Experience in JavaScript build tools like Grunt/Gulp, Node.  ? Proficient and experienced in applying various java, j2ee design patterns. Experience in development using design patterns like MVC. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Hybris Consultant O'Rielly auto Parts - Belmont, NC October 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Worked on validations using validation framework in JSF.  ? Investigate, locate and fix coding defects in applications Understand issues quickly and solve problems efficiently  ? Participated in delivering the deployments in time.  ? Completely worked in "Agile & Scrum" model Provided Go-Live support & was in on-call for Hyper care activities  ? Closely worked with Business Analyst & gather requirements for development sprints  ? Developing a Multichannel E-Commerce website using SAP Hybris commerce suite.  ? Involved in All the layers of Hybris (Like core, facades, services, storefront, Dao, Hybris Management Console (HMC) etc.  ? Worked on "Drawer Page" availability check options  ? Having 2.6 years of Professional IT experience in Mulesoft ESB and Java Technologies.  ? Formatted & displayed Subtotals by currency.  ? Worked with customer "Ship To&Sold To" change module.  ? Worked on Pay Metric Payment Integration and HOP payment Integration.  ? Worked on 3rd party Fraud integration (Kount) to Hybris.  ? Customized the HMC (Like Nodes creation, DB field's localization etc Customized the Order Confirmation Page as per the client requirements.  ? Worked closely with SAP team for all the SAP-Hybris integration activities as part of the Product & Customer master data design.  ? Involved with AEM team for all the AEM- Hybris integration as part of front end display of website.  ? Worked on HOT-Folder functionality of Hybris. To import data automatically.  ? Involved in Data Hubsetup.  ? Created new extensions in datahub to manage custom attributes with respect to client requirements in MATMAS, DEBMAS. And updated mapping with RAW, CANONICAL and TARGET items with respect to MATMAS, DEBMAS IDOCS.  ? Hybris Data Hub worked on replication of product master data from SAP ERP to hybris, send orders from hybris to SAP ERP.  ? Updated new translators to handle source values to Hybris models.  ? Worked on various Data Hub process flows like Composition, Publication etc.  ? Worked on Order Fulfillment and updating the order statuses with SAP PO integration.  ? Worked on Restful web services to map the SAP endpoints.  ? Worked on B2B Customers and B2B Units.  ? Created Cronjobs for integration of commerce system with client inventory management application.  ? Provided delta understandings whatever raised during the UAT testing.  ? Worked on PDP and Support PDP for the site.  ? Worked on the Data Model for the site and did customizations in HMC to display data model as per the client requirements.  ? Working with Solar and building the search pages with different key features, price ranges used as filters etc.  ? Involved in discussions with Mulesoft support team by raising tickets when they are needed.  ? Created the BTG Rules using CMS Cockpit based on the client requirement.  ? Worked on migrating current data model to upgraded data model, and make sure all customized data models are worked as expected.  ? Worked on product cockpit customization to expose new product attributes.  ? Created User Groups and assigning access rights for the different content through HMC.  ? Prepared the TDD for the development activities & also Deployment procedure documents GIT, Jenkins. Writing inFlexi search queries and ImpEx scripts.  ? Involved in Cockpit Customization, to perform specific tasks without interacting with HMC.  ? Worked on HAC (Hybris Administration Console) to perform update/initialize operations, validating scripts, checking the Flexi search queries, etc.  ? Analyze the root cause of issues and doing the code fix with development team.  ? Involved in writing numerous test cases for Unit testing (JUnit), Module testing and Integration testing.  ? Reporting to senior IT management on Issues, Risks and Weekly status updates    Gogo Aviations Broomfield, CO Sr. Java Developer September 2015 to October 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for creating and maintaining offshore SAP Hybris team capable enough to support the project Configuring Jenkins for new deployment jobs configuring sonar for reviewing cod.  ? Configuring Cobertura with Jenkins job to check test coverage of code Improved deployment process by optimizing Jenkins Job.  ? Deploying code base on dev, QA, Reg, and production environments.  ? Worked on hybris patches to deploy to all the environments.  ? Responsible for running system update for any type changes Editing localextensions.xml for enabling extensions and dependent extensions Analyzed thread dump for performance improvement from HAC Running Adhoc impex scripts during deployment Fixing production bugs.  ? Managing all the production servers with a CPU health check Upgrading Hybris 5.4 to 6.6 with patches deployment  ? Worked with B2B and B2B units  ? Project manager for onshore and offshore team and SPOC for client.  ? Fully understand capabilities and limitations of project implementation and accordingly guide customer teams.  ? Continuous intergeneration with B2B and B2B units  ? Developing site from scratch Understanding and designing data migration from existing site.  ? Writing Impexes and Cronjobs for importing and exporting data.  ? Design Bundle Products, Multi dimension products Bundle Products Selection criteria customization and quantity restriction\  ? Creating/Customizing WCMS pages for My Accounts, Wishlist etc.  ? Product upsell for normal and bundle products.  ? Data Modelling for Products, Wishlist, and other items etc.  ? Shopping cart functionality for all type of products including Bundle Product Helping other team members technically to accomplish their tasks. Sr Hybris Consultant Trek Bikes - Waterloo, WI August 2013 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Followed Agile Scrum methodology for development of the product. Using Atlassian, Jira Agile for Agile scrum project management/update.  ? Implemented the application with XP methodology as Agile process, refactoring the existing code and writing new code.  ? Developed the web pages Java, JavaScript, JQuery, handlebar,maven , angular and J2EE technology framework using Spring 2 MVC, JDBC , Hibernate, and Web Services with J2EE design patterns using Eclipse.  ? Developing a Multichannel E-Commerce website using SAP Hybris commerce suite.  ? Involved in All the layers of Hybris (Like core, facades, services, storefront, Dao, Hybris Management Console (HMC) etc. )  ? Hybris Data Hub worked on replication of product master data from SAP ERP to hybris, send orders from hybris to SAP ERP.  ? Worked with B2C and B2C units  ? Updated new translators to handle source values to Hybris models.  ? The Mockjax plugin for jQuery is used to mock or simulate ajax requests throughout application.  ? Implemented a software Microsoft SQL server 2016 ,Bootstrap , HTML-5CSS3  ? Developed and consumed restful web services using Apache CXF Framework.  ? Integrated Spring MVC with handlebar js front-end built on top of REST services.  ? Worked on Hibernate object/relational mapping according to database schema.  ? Involved in creation of Test Cases for JUnit Testing.  ? Performing code deployments to local Tomcat server for testing in Ubuntu Linux environment.  ? Worked on Git Repository for code integration and version control.  ? Continuous integration using Jenkins on tomcat.  ? Used Maven and Ant for Build Automation ensuring proper settings, avoiding/solving any errors.  ? Involved in designing the template using WCMS customization.Imp-exes creation, migration from legacy PCM to hybris PCM.  ? Deployed the complete Web applications in WebSphere Application server.    ? Participated in launching the Store Front and PCM Modules.    Environment: J2EE, Hybris, Eclipse 3.x, JDK, Spring, Hibernate ,core java, JSP1.2, Java Script, JQuery, Apache Tomcat, AJAX, XML, ANT, JUNIT, log4j, Jenkins, Git, HTML5/HTML, CSS3/CSS, JSON, MVC, MySQL. Java Developer Accu-Trade - Broomfield, CO July 2011 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Used Object Oriented Design and Object Oriented Programming concepts like Polymorphism, Inheritance, Interfaces, Generics and Collections etc  ? Extensively involved in design and implementation of front-end User Interface development using HTML,DOM, CSS, JSP, JSTL, Java script and perl scripting, JQuery,Dojo and AJAX.  ? Created HTML and JSP's for Graphical User Interface.  ? Understanding functional specifications, designing and developing creative solutions to meet business requirements.  ? Designed the Architecture of the project as per MVC standards.  ? Used propriety framework for the development of the module  ? Developed UI Screens in JSP, HTML, Java Script, XML and CSS  ? Unit Testing, Integration Testing, Bug Fixing  ? DOM manipulation and JavaScript event to generate the data result in UI.  ? UI Screens were developed using HTML5, Java Scripts, Ajax, JQuery, Custom-tags, react.js and CSS3.  ? Used ANGULAR JS and consumed Restful Web Services and which are created out of Node API. Good understanding in implementing web application using Angular JS framework.    Environment: Java, HTML5, CSS2/3, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, Angular.js, Node.js, React.js, Redux, JSP, AJAX, SOAP, XML, Oracle, Windows. Education Bachelor's Skills Peoplesoft, Epic, Powerchart, Teamcenter, Cerner