Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - OPTUM UHG, NJ Avenel, NJ, NJ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java Developer OPTUM UHG, NJ August 2015 to Present Description: PNC Bank is a mortgage banking company that specializes in the servicing of residential mortgage loans. LoanIQ is to assist PNC Finance Division to track payment history and financial records of the clients and recover money from defaulters. This system helps Recovery Department agents to interact with borrowers and analyse the reason for default and current financial status of the borrower. This system will help the agent to come up with healthy plan for new clients and recovery plan for collecting default money from the borrower.    Responsibilities:  • The entire application was developed in Java/EE based on Spring Web MVC framework.  • Responsible for deploying Components to Development environment, Testing environment, User Acceptance environment and Production environment.  • Involved in Analysis and Designing Phases using OOAD process.  • Participated in the discussion with the business experts to understand the business requirements and model them into technical requirements towards development.  • Involved in bug fixing and resolving issues with the QA.  • Designed and implemented Singleton, Factory, DAO and DTO Design Patterns.  • Developed user interface using JSP, HTML, XHTML and JavaScript to simplify the complexities of the application and improve ease of use.  • Developed UI Components and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX (JQuery) based UI for dynamic and interactive content.  • Used Hibernate/JPA as Persistence framework for mapping the entity models to database tables using Hibernate annotations.  • Used HQL and Criteria API for customized data fetching from database.  • Written PL/SQL in Oracle Database for creating cursors, triggers and stored procedures.  • Implemented global exception handling and Log4j for logging services.  • Involved in the preparation of Test Cases for Unit Testing and Integrated Testing.  • Involved in Unit Testing with Junit and Mockito, debugging, and bug fixing.  • Developed Web services component using XML, WSDL, and SOAP with DOM/SAX parser to transfer and transform data between applications.  • Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) and Backend Messaging for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information such as payment status report.  Environment: JEE/ Java, JSP, Servlet, Spring MVC, Hibernate, PL/SQL, Eclipse, HTML, CSS, JQuery, UNIX, Oracle, SQL Developer, WebSphere, RESTful and SOAP Web services, Log4j. Senior Java Developer Wells Fargo , CA January 2014 to July 2015 Description: Institutional Trading: provides the FA's with an easy-to-traverse site for managing their client's accounts. Advisors can trade stocks, options, and mutual funds and allocate block purchases for their client's accounts. The VEO application is used by institutional FA's who manage accounts established with TD Ameritrade. VEO NextGen is a platform to FA's to manage their Clients. The application has below modules: Advisor Authentication, Trading, Accounts, Account Tools, Research, Resource Center and Preferences.    Responsibilities:  • Configured the Spring framework for entire business logic layer with Annotation based bean configurations.  • Coded in Core Java (JDK 1.6), JSP, Servlet, based on Spring MVC framework.  • Extensively used Eclipse based STS IDE for building, developing and integrating the application.  • Designed front end view components using HTML, JSP, CSS and JavaScript with JQuery.  • Wrote Controller classes in Spring MVC framework in the web layer.  • Used Table per hierarchy inheritance of hibernates and mapped polymorphic associations.  • Developed one-many, many-one, one-one annotation based mappings in Hibernate.  • Involved in development of POJO classes and writing Hibernate Query Language (HQL) queries and Criteria queries.  • Develop DAO service methods to populate the domain model objects using hibernate.  • Wrote DAO classes using Spring and Hibernate to interact with database for persistence.  • Involved in developing Java APIs, which communicates with the Java Beans.  • Implemented MVC architecture using Spring, Spring EL and JSTL tag libraries.  • Used Java Collections API extensively such as Lists, Sets and Maps.  • Used Java/JEE Design patterns like MVC, Factory Method, Singleton, Data Transfer Object (DTO), Data Access Object(DAO).  • Created Stored Procedures/Functions using SQL/PL-SQL for data manipulation.  • Developed Junit test cases for regression testing and integrated with Spring.  • Implemented Logging framework using Log4J/SLF4J.  • Involved in code review and documentation review of technical artifacts.  Environment: Java/EE, JSP, Servlets, Spring, Hibernate, XML, HTML, Spring Framework, jQuery, Easy UI, Git, Maven, JDBC, Log4J, Oracle 11g Database, JBoss AS, Unix Java Developer First National of Nebraska - Omaha, NE August 2012 to December 2013 Description: First National is the largest privately owned bank in the United States, with locations in seven states and more than 6.6 million customers across the country. First National of Nebraska and its affiliates have $17 billion in managed assets and over 5,000 employee associates. Developed Bill Pay module which enables customers to pay bills securely to different vendors, enrol in monthly automatic recurring bill payment, do manual bill payments etc. Other functionalities provided are adding a payee, receive bills electronically, request e-mail notifications and review payments.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modeling, analysis, design, development and testing.  • Developed the User Interface using HTML, JSP based on Spring MVC framework.  • Used AJAX and JavaScript for Server side/client side validation.  • Used Spring Transaction management and JDBC module features to persist the data to the database for few applications. Also used the Spring IOC feature to get hibernate session factory and resolve other bean dependencies.  • Developed the persistence layer using Hibernate Framework by configuring the relational mappings in the hibernate mapping files and created DAO.  • Did thorough code walk through for the team members to check the functional coverage and coding standards.  • Used Apache CXF for building of Web Services. Also developed the web service client applications to test the web services.  • Used Tortoise SVN to maintain the version of the files and took the responsibility to do the code merges from branch to trunk and creating new branch when new feature implementation starts.  • Developed test cases using Junit and built scripts using Maven.  Environment: Java/JavaEE, Hibernate 4, Spring 3, Servlets, SVN, MVC, Agile, JIRA, SharePoint, WebSphere, CXF, SOAP, REST, Junit, Oracle 10g, JQuery, Ajax. Software Engineer Aerostrong - Beijing, CN January 2010 to August 2012 Description: Aerostrong is a software company, which focuses on e-Government solutions and platform, based in Beijing, China. Developed an internal portal based on BEA WebLogic Portal 9.2 (Portlet technology & SSO) and Oracle DB, Open LDAP, J2EE, EJB, Struts, etc. In this project we implemented a secret content delivery system (based on ASOP Content Management System), and integrated many third-party applications.    Responsibilities  • Worked with client users to gather requirements.  • Involved in the design, analysis, implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle. Involved in the writing some of the use cases needed for the application using UML diagram.  • Designed and implemented the service API to integrate third-part applications.  • Designed database structure (Oracle 9i).  • Used Hibernate in data access layer to access Oracle database.  • Implemented Struts MVC framework.  • Designed and developed various front-end JSP pages with JSTL taglib & Struts taglib, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, CSS.  • Implemented design patterns like DAO, Singleton, Adaptor, Chain of Responsibility, etc.  • Used WebServices like SOAP and WSDL to consume different services.  • Implemented WebServices with XFire library.  • Performed Unit Testing of the application by writing JUnit tests.  • Used ANT as a build tools to manage the project.  • Microsoft VSS was used as the versioning tool.  • Deployed the application on WebLogic Portal server.  • Troubleshooting and debugging of issues.  Environment: Java, Eclipse, ANT, VSS, Oracle 9i, BEA WebLogic Portal 8.0, Hibernate, Struts, JSP, jQuery, Web Services, JUnit Education Bachelor's Skills DATABASE (7 years), JAVA (7 years), jQuery (7 years), JSP (7 years), JUNIT (7 years) Additional Information SKILLS:  Languages: Java, C, Python, Ruby, SQL, PL/SQL  JEE Technologies: JSP, Servlets, EJB, JMS, JNDI, JPA, AOP, JAX-RS/WS  Application Servers: WebSphere, Web Logic, JBoss, Tomcat  Scripting Languages: Java Script, Lua, Shell Scripting like sh/bash  Database: Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL  Frameworks: Spring, Spring Web MVC, Hibernate, CXF, JQuery  Operating System: Unix/Linux, Windows 8/10, Mac OS  Tools: Eclipse, STS, Aptana, Maven, Log4j, JUnit, Mockito, JMeter, SQL Developer, MySQL workbench, Postman, SoapUI