Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Credit Suisse Morrisville, NC Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer Credit Suisse - Morrisville, NC November 2018 to Present Description: Credit Suisse is a leading financial services company, advising clients in all aspects of finance, across the globe. The main aim of this project is to validate and enrich the Incoming trade.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Performed software configuration/release management activities for different Java applications. Implemented change requests based on the requirements.  • Deployed applications on WebLogic Application Server and used Maven and Jenkins to automate build & deploy process.  • Developed Single Page Application using AngularJS Framework and injected generic services using Angular 2.0.  • Extensively used Angular 2 features like Directives, Filters, Two-way Data Binding, Services, Templates, Routing for building Single-Page-Applications.  • Used Splunk for monitoring the Production logs region wise.  • Used Spring Batch for processing large amount of data like transaction management, job processing, resource management and logging.  • Designed and developed application using Spring Framework-IOC/DI, Spring MVC, Servlets and POJO integrating with Hibernate framework.  • Responsible for designing Hibernate mapping files based on business logic and Object relationships.  • Worked extensively with Java collection API's such as Lists, Sets, And Maps and Java utility packages to make the application more interactive with the collection frameworks and annotation.  • Used TortoiseSVN to maintain the version of the files and took the responsibility to do the code merges from branch to trunk and creating new branch when new feature implementation starts.  • Used Tectia SSH Client for reliable, secure data flow.  Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular2, Junit, Maven, Hibernate, Eclipse, MVC and WebLogic. Java Full Stack Developer Conduent - Ridgeland, MS February 2018 to November 2018 Description: Conduent is a technology led business process services company which offers business platforms for business and governments which they are working as a physical agent for Mississippi Division of Medicaid (DOM) for Medicaid Eligibility Determination project.    Responsibilities:  • Experience working in Agile development following SCRUM process, Sprint, and daily stand-up meetings.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Created custom directives in Angular JS for re-usable components. Developed User Interface and web page screens for various modules using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and Angular JS framework.  • Expertise in AngularJS controllers, directives, filters, factory and service resources, routings and events.  • Hands on Experience on core java concepts like Collections, Parallel streams, lambdas, Generics, Exception handling, IO multithreading, Concurrency to develop business logic.  • Worked with the team in the development of the Application front-end using JSP, Spring with the help of XHTML and JavaScript.  • Designed the application using the J2EE design patterns such as Session Façade, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Value Object, Value List Handler, and Singleton.  • Used Spring dependency injection, MVC components to implement business layer and navigation part of application.  • Used Hibernate, object/relational-mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with SQL-based schema. Extensively used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Created JUNIT Test Cases, Test Suites using JUnit for Java Service Layer, data access layer for model and repository which was developed using spring, Persistence layer using Hibernate.  • Used Java Messaging Services and Backend Messaging for reliable and asynchronous exchange of valuable information. Worked on WSO2 ESB.  • Developed callback functions to parse and handle JSON data returned from the server.  • Implemented and Used Web Services with the help of WSDL and SOAP to get updates from the third parties.  • Developed Web Services to exchange data between different applications, implemented SOA architecture with Web Services using SOAP and WSDL. Tested cross browser functionality and fixed major layout bugs for supported browsers including IE6. Facilitated User Testing sessions to solicit feedback on prototypes.  • Used Log4J for any logging purposes during the development of the application.  • Used Maven as build and dependency management tool for creating EAR, WAR and JAR file to be deployed in application servers and integrated with SVN, Jenkins, Jenkins Jobs.  • Worked in Performance Tuning, Performance monitoring of JVM on Linux and Windows Environment.  • Used SQL to query data from one or more database tables. Created Stored Procedures, User Defined functions, Views and implemented the Error Handling in the Stored Procedures and SQL objects. Modified existing stored procedures, triggers, views, indexes based on the requirement.  • Good Knowledge of using IDE Tool like Eclipse for Java/J2EE application development.  Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, AngularJS, jQuery, Junit, Maven, Hibernate, Eclipse, MVC, Apache Tomcat and MYSQL. Java Full Stack Developer CNSI - Rockville, MD January 2016 to December 2017 Description: CNSI is an industry leader in developing, implementing and operating innovative technological solutions that  modernize health care administration systems. We were the first company to implement a Web-centric Medicaid  Management Information System (MMIS) and today we continue to lead the way in addressing the many challenges  that exist in the health care landscape by being the first in the nation to embark on developing a completely  automated real-time and cloud-enabled modular MMIS.  Responsibilities:  • Experience working in agile development following SCRUM process, Sprint, and daily stand-up meetings.  • Created AngularJS Controller to control the flow of data which isolate scopes perform operations in UI pages.  • Used AngularJS to include creating modules and components and coupling them together into a functional app.  • Implementing AngularJS with Spring MVC as model component and developed custom AngularJS directives, tags.  • Expertise in application development using Java 8 features like Lambda Expressions for array operations, Collections, J2EE, Spring MVC, Annotations, Hibernate, JUnit, Ant, Maven, CSS, XML.  • Analyzed the Maven dependency management in base code in order to annotate the dependencies on to Spring Boot application in to Gradle for Micro Services. Developed the Spring Features like Spring MVC, Spring DAO, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Spring Security, Spring Integration.  • Used Hibernate as an Object-Relational Mapping ORM tool to store the persistent data and for communicating with Oracle database. Solid understanding and Experience in developing applications using Model-View-Controller architecture, Spring and Hibernate frameworks.  • Well exposed to Hibernate and spring and thorough knowledge on Hibernate configuration file. Used Hibernate for accessing database and mapping the entities by using annotations.  • Involved in developing RESTful Web Services with JAX-RS to provide functionality for future development.  • Developed REST Web Services clients to consume those Web Services as well other enterprise Wide Web Services.  • Ensure the deliverables meets the design requirements and technical specifications.  • Defined strategic initiatives on Continuous Integration & Delivery (CI/CD) model in AGILE development environment to help, respond quickly to business needs.  • Familiar with designing and coding Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions using PL/SQL, Oracle10g/11g and SQL server. Used Multi-threading to overcome the errors in the process of transactions, to handle all the threads by the main thread process.  • Track production incidents, identify and prioritize scope for bugs and enhancements, conduct reviews with State counterparts and plan releases.    Environment: Core Java, Tomcat, JMS, J2EE, Spring MVC, Spring Boot Framework, Microservice, MongoDB, AngularJS, Hibernate 4.X, JQUERY, JSON, Web Services, XML, JavaBeans, JavaScript, Oracle 11G, Eclipse, Apache Maven, JUNIT, HTML/UNIT, XSLT, HTML/DHTML. Java/J2EE Developer AT&T DATA - Birmingham, AL December 2014 to December 2015 Description: We're the largest provider of pay TV in the United States and one of the largest in the world. Our solutions help companies adapt to change in near real time and meet the evolving needs of tomorrow. We will work within the DIRECTV Mobile team to lead the design and development of new software products and enhancements to existing software.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in all the phases of software development lifecycle (SDLC) including Requirements Collection, Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications, Development, Deployment and Customization of the Application.  • Extensively used various Spring Framework modules like MVC, Dependency Injection (IOC), AUTO WIRING, JDBC Templates, Spring Security and AOP. Created and injected spring services, spring controllers and DAOs to achieve dependency injection and to wire objects of business classes.  • Using Hibernate Framework for back end development and Spring dependency injection for middle layer development and Using Spring Framework AOP Module to implement logging in the application to know the application status.  • Developed Maven scripts and developed builds using Maven and continuous integration servers like Jenkins.  • Experience in using Jenkins for continuous integration and Maven for building, JIRA for bug management.  • Worked with Web services components JAX-RS services and worked with Restful Web services to interact with external systems.  • Implemented Singleton, Service Locator design patterns in MVC framework and developed command, delegate, model action script classes to interact with the backend.  • Hands on experience with Oracle 8i/9i, Oracle 10g/11g databases and writing complex SQL queries, writing Stored Procedures, Functions, and Triggers, and performed complex database related operations with Oracle PL/SQL.  • Responsible for creating complex SQL queries, stored procedures and analyzed the tables in MySQL database.  • Worked on different platforms like Windows, UNIX, and LINUX. Used core Java concepts like Collections, Generics, Exception handling, IO, Concurrency to develop business logic.  • Experience in implementing Object Oriented Concepts like Inheritance, Polymorphism, Abstraction, and encapsulation. Experience using core Java APIs to build multi-threaded server-side components for large-scale Web and standalone applications.  • Worked on version control like GitHub and good exposure to IDE tool like Eclipse.  • Hands on experience in java application testing using JUNIT and Mock framework for unit testing and System testing and involved in Troubleshooting, Problem solving and Bug fixing.  • Worked with production support team in debugging and fixing various production issues.  • Created new database schema and tables. Involved in creating new and modifying the existing stored procedures and functions.    Environment: Java, Hibernate, Spring framework, Apache Maven, Spring Boot, Microservice, JSP 2.0, AngularJS, JUNIT, GitHub, HTML5, jQuery, JSON, Oracle 11g, Eclipse. Java/J2EE Developer Symbiosys Technologies May 2012 to June 2014 Description: Symbiosys Technologies aims at developing innovative and cost-effective end to end technology solutions with high performance and security. We meet specific client requirements by developing strategic business solutions using onsite, offsite and offshore project execution methodologies.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible and mentored the team in complete software development lifecycle tasks - design, coding, testing, and documentation using Rational Unified Process (RUP) for analysis and design of application.  • Worked closely with QA team and fixed QA bugs as well as production issues with a quick turnaround time.  • Created dynamic web pages for the system using XHTML, AJAX, CSS on Java Server Faces (JSF).  • Involved in writing Thread Safe blocks for multithread access to make valid transactions. Extensively worked with JMS API for sending messages between two or more clients.  • Involved in requirements gathering, development, and testing. Documented and generated reports using SSRS and integration were done using SSIS services. Involved in developing the CSS sheets for the UI Components.  • Involved in coding with Struts Action classes and java Server pages. Developed Enterprise Java Beans like Entity Beans, Session Beans (both Stateless and State Full Session beans).  • Used JSP Custom tags to display data on to the JSP pages. Performed Validations on UI data using JSF valuators and JavaScript. Developed web GUI components using Struts MVC Framework.  • Created JavaScript functions for client-side validations. Developed the application using Eclipse IDE and worked under Agile Environment. Played a key role in the development of server-side functionality of handling the requests and responses using Java Servlets.  • Created Data Access Object (DAO) which is used by the Hibernate API calls to interact with the database.  • Participated in analyzing the requirements and depicted them through use cases and scenarios.  • Involved in creating lists for Email campaign database. Checked Advertiser content against the spam words.  • Involved in writing Stored Procedure in using PL/SQL.  • Developed the application using Software Development lifecycle, followed the Agile Development Model.  • Writing queries and Procedures, triggers, functions, and cursors using Toad. Monitored the logs using Log4j and fixed the problems and used GitHub and GitUI for version control.  • Support the applications through debugging, fixing and maintenance releases.    Environment: JSP, Servlets, MVC, Tomcat, AJAX, XHTML, CSS, Toad, Java Script, Struts, Eclipse, JDBC, MySQL. Education Bachelor's in Electrical Engineering in Electrical Engineering Gitam University Skills ECLIPSE, EJB, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, JAVA TECHNOLOGIES, SPRING, JAX, JAXB, JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, JBOSS, JMS, Java Message Service, JNDI, Java Naming and Directory Interface, jQuery, JSF, JSP, JTA, Java J2Ee, MVC, JEE, Angularjs, Rest, Angular, Core Java, Javascript, Soap