Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Sprint 08540 • 5Yearsof experience as a Software Developer in Analysis, Design, Development and Testing and Implementation of applications on Java/J2EE technologies and Implementation in Amazon Web Services (AWS) cloud and IT industry.  • Expertise in server-side development with Spring, Hibernate, Struts, EJB, JDBC, Servlets, MVC architecture, Java Beans, XML.  • Experienced in developing interactive web applications with Single Page Applications (SPAs) Framework using AngularJS  • Strong experience in Angular 2/4, Node.js, Angular CLI, NPM (Node Package Manager).  • Extensive knowledge and working experience of web development technologies such as JavaScript, jQuery , AngularJS, Angular2/4, HTML5, CSS3, SASS and Bootstrap.  • Implemented AngularJS Expressions, Directives, Controllers, filters and created Angular JS service layer.  • Extensive development experience in web applications using Java 8/7/6, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, and API's like JDBC, XML, JavaBeans.  • Experience of Jenkins, Apache Ant, Apache Tomcat, Subversion, Git, GitHub, Maven.  • Experience with CI (Continuous Integration) and CD (Continuous Deployment) methodologies using Jenkins.  • Strong knowledge / experience in creating Jenkins CI pipelines and good experience in automating deployment pipelines.  • Experienced in SOA and Web Services technologies, including Restful, JAX-WS, Soap, XML, WSDL, SAX and SAAS based design.  • Proficient with development of Restful Web Services using JAX-RS framework for exchange of JSON and XML representations.  • Expertise to interact with relational databases using ORM frameworks like Hibernate, Spring.  • Developed and deployedMicroservices based applications using Spring Boot and Spring Cloud.  • Excellent technical knowledge in back-end RDBMS tools like Oracle 9i/10G/11G and MySQLand Cassandra, DynamoDB and MongoDB  • Experience in developing SQL, Stored Procedures, functions, triggers using Oracle and comfortable working with databases like SQL Server, DB2 and MySQL.  • Experienced in build tools like Ant and Maven, Log4j for Logging and JUnit for testing.  • Expertise in using J2EEApplication Servers such as JBoss and Web Servers like Tomcat 5.x/6.x  • Experience with test-driven development (TDD), Junit testing framework and knowledge of ANT, MAVEN and Log4j tools.  • Experienced in handling Version Control Systems like SVN and GIT.Experiences with build tools include Maven, Gradle and Jenkins Version.  • Worked on Algorithms and Data Structure.  • Working experience with the operating systems like UNIXand Windows  • Hands on Experience in Amazon web services (AWS) in migrating java applications to the cloud using EC2, S3 and object storage container to store and retrieved secured files, from API.  • UsedMockito frameworks for mocking to test the functionality of the application. Work Experience Java Developer Sprint - Overland Park, KS January 2019 to Present Responsibilities  • Involved in SDLC Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of application using Agile methodology.  • Actively participated in Sprint Planning, Daily-stand-ups, sprint Review, Retrospectives organized by ScrumMaster.  • Used HTML,CSS, Spring MVC, JavaScript, Angular, Node.js, Bootstrap in the development and designing the UI.  • Used ALM to track bugs, prioritize and discuss the team's work in full context.  • Experienced in SOA and Web Services technologies, including Restful, Soap, XML, WSDLand SAAS based design.  • Used java 8 streams, lambdas and other functional programming concepts in order to implement good coding standards.  • Experienced in handling Version Control Systems like SVN and GIT. Experiences with build tools include Maven, Gradle.  • Involved in test-cases using Junit, debugging Implementation and deployment activities. Successfully involved in test driven development model using Junit and supported SIT and IAT.  • Involved in Code Coverage using Junit Test Cases, Mockito's and Code Quality is done using Sonar Qube Analysis  • Used the ESB(MuleSoft) to communicate RMS and Third party services.  • Used REST API for performing operations such as read, get and post the data that was sent back and forth between the front-end and the back-end.  • Used SOAP messages for sending and extracting data from different applications using Web Services.  • Used GDM(Generic Data Modelling) tool to design the Fields like dropdowns, text fields can be integrated with angular applications as JSONformat.  • Integrated JSON based Web Services with UI to display the data.  • Implemented REST services, getting JSON response and parsing them to get the required information.  • Used Kibana and Nitro used to pull the logs and go through the request and response of the Journeys.  • Used Robo mongo to connect with Mongo DB and to fetch the logs of the journeys.  • Logged exceptions on existing application using Log4J.  • Used Microsoft Lync for communication purpose across the teams.    Environment: JDK, J2EE, Core Java, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, Maven, Spring, log4J, Jenkins, Git, ALM, STS IDE, Junit, Windows. Java Developer Apptium Technologies , Herndon, VAFeb 2018 to January 2019 Responsibilities:  • Worked as per Agile Methodology (Scrum) to meet customer expectation, timelines with quality deliverables.  • Developed the User Interface using HTML5, CSS3, Angular JS and enhanced response using Bootstrap.  • Developed single page applications using Angular 2/4, Typescript, HTML5, CSS3, and Bootstrap.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component-based architecture provided by Angular 2/4.  • Worked on Node JS providing an event-driven architecture and a non-blocking I/O API that optimizes an application's throughput and scalability.  • Design, Develop, testing and automation of backend web service application using Rest API,Postman and REST clients.  • Worked on making AJAX calls to connect database using RESTFUL web APIs and worked on integrating the middleware to front-end.  • Writing of automated scripts for checking the cause of failure from logs and reporting it.  • Executed automation scripts on different browsers/environments & reported defects.  • Used the Spring IOC feature to get Hibernate session factory and resolve other bean dependencies also used spring framework AOP features and JDBC module features to persist the data to the database for few applications.  • Implemented the application using Spring MVC Framework, Spring Boot and handled the security using Spring Security.  • Configured Continuous Integration environment, using Jenkins to kickoff daily builds  • Involved in Code Coverage using Junit Test Cases, Mockito's and Code Quality is done using Sonar Qube Analysis.  • Developed a middle layer which consumes a web service and update data to database.  • Developed Spring Framework based RESTFUL Web Services for handling and persisting of requests and Spring MVC for returning response to presentation tier.  • Developed the persistence layer using Hibernate Framework, created the POJO objects and mapped using Hibernate annotations.  • Wrote database queries using SQL and PL/SQL for accessing, manipulating and updating Oracle database.  • Wrote complex stored procedures, views and Indexes for effectively using Oracle database.  • Used Jira to track bugs, prioritize and discuss the team's work in full context.  • Followed the Maven build life cycle to build the application and deployed into application server.    Environment: Java, HTML5, CSS3, Angular2/4, Java Script, jQuery, Ajax, AngularJS, NodeJS, Bootstrap, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Agile methodology, RESTful Web Services,Microservices, Oracle, XML, SQL, Maven, Log4j, JUnit, GIT, JIRA. Java Developer Cerner Corporation September 2016 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in different phases of SDLC as requirements gathering, technical design and implementation. Followed Agile Methodologies software development paired programming, Test Driven Development process, from development phase to testing phase and the postproduction phase, and Scrum meetings.  • Worked as per Agile Methodology (Scrum) to meet customer expectation, timelines with quality deliverables.  • Designed the frontend and developed UI screens as per the wireframes provided by business using Java Script, JQuery, Bootstrap, Angular JS and backend layer using spring framework, Hibernate and XML. IDE used is Eclipse.  • Responsible for setting up AngularJS framework to achieve binding data between HTML and JavaScript objects.  • Used Dockers for launching the container and deploying code using Jenkins in the container.  • Implemented single page applications with AngularJS using custom directives and developed Angular routes using route providers.  • Used Spring MVC architecture with Hibernate to implement DAO code and used RESTful Web Services with XML parsing to interact with other modules.  • Used spring container for data source and to load the Hibernate specific classes.  • Used Hibernate framework in persistence layer for mapping an object-oriented domain model to Oracle database.  • Used Micro services to communicate using synchronous protocols HTTP and REST.  • Developed Restful web services by using JAX-RS [JERSEY] for integrating multiple systems, created and read the JSON objects by using JACKSON libraries.  • Configured Java objects with backend database tables using ORM mapping in Hibernate.  • Implemented various design patterns in the project such as Data Access Object, Data Transfer Object and Singleton.  • Created Stored Procedures in PL/SQL, Functions for the DAO layer by studying the required business objects and validating them using Oracle database.  • Thoroughly Unit tested the application by writing test cases for different scenarios using JUnit.  • Used GIT for version control management between various integration and development streams.  • Used Jira to track bugs, prioritize and discuss the team's work in full context    Environment: HTML, CSS, XML, XSTL, Jenkins, Java Script, jQuery, Angular JS, Hibernate framework, Spring framework, Oracle 11g, JSON, JAX-RS, Docker, Jenkins, GIT, Jira, Log4j, JUnit. Software Engineer ( Java/J2EE) Consona Corp - IN July 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Agile SCRUM development process was used for the product life cycle managementto meet customer expectation, timelines with quality deliverables.  • Created Use Case, wrote design approach documents, development, implementations, support, for functional.  • Implemented Struts 2.x framework in the application. Responsible for configuration and integration of Spring 4, Struts 2.x and Hibernate 4.3.x.  • Designed and developed Controllers, Action Mappings, Interceptors, Forms and View pages for management of policy claims using Struts2.x framework.  • Implemented Persistence layer using Hibernate 4.3.x to interact with the MySQL database.  • Used Hibernate for object relational mapping and persistence.  • Provided programming estimates, identified potential problems and recommended alternative solutions.  • Worked on Integration of Spring and Hibernate Frameworks using Spring ORM Module.  • Used spring dependency injection, annotations and Spring MVC components to implement business layer and navigation partof application.  • Developed several which produces both XML and JSON to perform tasks, leveraged by both web and mobile applications  • Developed the front end user interfaces using JSP, JSF, JSTL, jQuery, Java script, AJAX, JSON, HTML, and CSS.  • Involved in creating Reporting Module using JFreeChart.  • Created unit tests using JUnit framework in test driven development approach.  • Used Git as version control tool and Maven as build tool.  • Worked closely with requirement team, testing team and data base administrators teams.    Environment: Java 1.6, Hibernate 3.0, Spring 3.0, JSF, AGILE Methodology, SCRUM, JSP, Servlet, XML, HTML, Design Patterns, JBoss, JUnit, JavaScript, , JMS, SVN, Oracle 9i, Eclipse, Maven, JIRA, UML, Windows, ANT,Jira. Skills Design patterns, Git, Gui, Javascript, Bootstrap, Reactjs, Json, Middleware, Orm, Svn, Xml, Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jboss, jquery, Jsp, Servlets Additional Information SKILLS:    Web technologies Java 1.8/1.7,J2EE (EJB2.0/3.0, Servlets, JSP), AngularJS, NodeJS,ReactJS, XML, SOAP, REST, JDBC, BootStrap, JSON.  Frameworks/ORM tools: Spring, Struts 2.0, Hibernate  Database JDBC, Oracle 11g/10g/9i/8i/, SQL Server 7.0 and MySQL.  IDE Eclipse 3.0, Net Beans.  Operating Systems UNIX, Linux, Windows.  App Servers/ Middleware Tomcat, WebLogic, JBoss, Apache Tomcat 7.x,.  GUI HTML5, XML, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS, jQuery  Query Languages SQL, PL/SQL.  Programming Language Core Java APIs (I/O, Thread, Collection).  Design patterns Business Delegate, Business Object, Value Object, Database Access Object, Factory, Singleton, Session Facade.  Tools: JUnit, Log4j, ANT, Maven, JIRA.  Version Control UML, SVN, GIT.