Java/JEE Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/JEE <span class="hl">Developer</span> DevOps Engineer Richardson, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java/JEE Developer Wipro Technologies/CapitalOne October 2016 to Present Working as java developer from middleware to backend using technologies java spring frame work, Hibernate, Jenkins, Apache Tomcat, ORM, JMS, Version-One project management Scrum tool, Maven, MySQL, Spring Batch, Spring security spring validation, Design pattern. This project is implanted in Agile methodology/SDLC, Web Service(Restful) for develop interactive User Interface. Responsibilities I have done for this project are writing code at Service layer to backend, requirement Analysis, Code Reviewing and Peer Coding, individual contribution of Writing Code for Tokenizing customer Data and deployed to AWS cloud using Docker and Chronos, ATDD for Java Restful web service /Api development and Angular.js UI dvelopment, Scripting SQL queries for data processing and unit testing. Other Technologies I have Enhanced for this project are"- Sonar(Code Coverage tool), Runs performance testing using apache-jmeter-3.1(performance testing tool), Selenium, Cucumber and Junit framework, Docker, gulp, CI/CD tools, GitHub and Jenkins, postman api manual testing, Spring boots and Amazon Web Service /AWS. Java developer MMRTI December 2014 to August 2016 Java Web Developer  Contribute to multiple application development projects as a Java developer and subject matter expert, involved in requirements analysis and design, software planning, and programming. Ensure code quality and reusability through implementation of best practices. In this project I have used technologies like Spring(MVC Pattern), DI/IOC, Hibernate Jenkins, Apache Tomcat, ORM, JMS, Jenkins, Maven, MySQL, Spring security spring validation, Design pattern(Singleton, Factory Methods, Abstract Factory Strategy and State pattern) HTML5, CSS3 and Web Service(RESTful) for develop interactive User Interface. Tasks I have done for this project wetting code at Service as backend, requirement Analysis, Code Reviewing and Peer Coding, individual contribution of Writing Code for Online Payment, Registration, Scheduling and Verification of Users.  Achievements:  • Facilitated quality control through extensive testing using JUnit Testing, and Diagramming using Visio and rational rose.  Technologies: Java/JEE, Hibernate/Spring, Tomcat, Oracle Agile NetBeans 8.01 IDE, Appache App Server, Web Services/Restful, and, Soap, MySQL, Hibernate/Spring, Tomcat, Oracle, GIT JSP(ETL, ESTLandCustomtag)JavaScipt, HTM5, CSS3 and windows and Linux platform Java Developer ADDIS ABABA ICT DEVELOPMENT BUREAU - ADDIS ABABA, ET November 2009 to June 2012 11/25/2009-06/12/2012(Onsite); and 09/02/2012-09/15/2013(Working Remotely from USA)  Location Addis Ababa, Ethiopia    Java Developer  Working for this Government Office under china's based company Huawei SoftTech Inc.  Coordinated the full development lifecycle for Java software applications, overseeing all aspects - from initial requirements gathering and evaluation to systems architecture and definition, software and database design, programming, testing, deployment, documentation, and end user training. Collaborated with team members to integrate modules and components into cohesive, high-performing applications and systems. Troubleshot and debugged as needed. Reported to senior management.  Achievements:  • Drove end user adoption and systems utilization by authoring and updating user training documentation.  • Facilitated seamless integration and implementation by researching emerging technologies to improve processes.  Technologies: Java / JEE, Spring MVC, Hibernate JSP, JavaScript, AJAX, Microsoft Project. Network Engineer & System Administrator/Technical Lead HUAWEI TECHNOLOGIES CO. LTD - Addis Ababa, ET November 2007 to February 2009 Recruited to coordinate administration, management, and implementation of network active devices, Windows Server 2003 / 2008, MS Exchange 2010, LAN, and data centers. Coordinated requirements analysis and project management for network design and setup, hardware installation and maintenance, and administration of Cisco switches and routers and Huawei network products. Provided troubleshooting and technical support for desktop and laptop computers, software, and peripherals. Handled administration and security of directories and applications. Oversaw backups and off-site storage.  Achievements:  • Delivered a major project to design and implement a balanced scorecard system and HR subsystem adaptable for multiple clients, with flexible, multi-featured budget forecasting, management, and reporting.  Technologies: Java / JEE, Spring MVC, Hibernate JSP, JavaScript, AJAX, Microsoft Project. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Design Pattern Web Application Programming Maharishi University of Management - Fairfield, IA Bachelor of Science in computer Science in Discrete Mathematics Addis Ababa University - Addis Ababa, ET Skills Java (6 years), JSP (5 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (5 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (5 years), MVC (5 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/jenber http://Apache.tc Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES    Java Programming/j2ee • Project Management • Requirements Gathering & Analysis • Database Systems Design  Technology Analysis • Web Application Development • Agile Methodologies • Technical Support    Languages: Java, C++, Python, Android Java Apps Developer / Android Studio, J2EE  Scripting Languages: PHP, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, JESON, AJAX, XML, DHTML, XHTML, CSS, Bootstrap, AngularJs  Databases: MySQL, SQL, Oracle, MS SQL, PL/SQL  Frameworks: Spring MVC, Hibernate, JSP Views, JSF, JSTL/EL, Spring WS, Web Services, JSON)  Design Pattern I'm familiar with 23 of GOF and I have used Signlton.Abstract Factory, Factory, Facade, Strategy, State Builder, Visitor.Observer and other in Different projects.  Tools: StarUML, JUnit, ADDT, Rational Rose, jenkines, Adobe Dreamweaver, Microsoft Expression, MySQL  Plus, SQL Developer, PL/SQL, Scrum Tool, IBM developer kits, Cloud computing and Amazon web service  Platforms: Windows, Linux  IDE: Net Beans IDE 8.0.2, Eclipse, STS, Intellij and am okay to use new IDE  Web / App Server: Tomcat, Glassfish, Apache.tc Server 3.1 and JBOSS  SDLC: Agile, Test-Driven Development, Paired Programming, Scrum Tools  Web Services: Restful Web Service, SOAP. and Micro services