Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - FAA/SAIC San Francisco, CA • Highly Trusted, Motivated IT Professional with an impeccable 6+ years of experience in system Analysis, design, development, testing, implementation, and support of application software using Object Oriented Analysis and Design in JAVA/J2EE.  • Extensive experience in Java, J2EE programming - JDBC, JPA, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, Spring, Hibernate.  • 3+ years of experience in AWS services like EC2, EBS, ELB, S3, SQS, RDS, DynamoDB, Lambda, API Gateway, Cloudwatch, CloudFormation and Elastic Beanstalk.  • Strong experience in Full Stack web technologies like J2EE, Servlets, Swing, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring boot, AJAX, JQuery, JSON, EJB, JBOSS, JDBC, JSP, HTML, Angular 2/4, JavaScript, CSS, XML, Log4J.  • Used different angular versions including Angular 2 and Angular 4 extensive features for loading.  • Proven expertise in implementing IOC/Dependency Injection features in various aspects of Spring Framework.  • Proficiency in developing Model View Controller (MVC) Architecture based applications using Spring Framework. Experience working in environments using Agile (SCRUM), Water Fall methodologies.  • Good knowledge on J2EE Design Patterns like MVC Architecture, Singleton, Factory Pattern, Front Controller, and Data Access Object. Expertise with Application servers and Web servers like Jboss, Apache Tomcat.  • Extensive work in implementing Dependency Injection, Inversion of Control (IoC), Spring MVC, Spring JDBC and Auto Wiring concepts using Spring framework.  • Developed layouts using HTML5, CCS3, Angular2/4, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON and jQuery.  • Experience in web development using HTML 4/5, DHTML, XHTML, CSS, JSP, JavaScript, NodeJs, Angular Js, Angular 4, Angular 5,JQuery, JSON, and AJAX.  • Expertise in Web Services including different technologies and standards like SOAP/UDDI/WSDL, REST, Jersey.  • Good understanding of NoSQL Data bases and hands on work experience in writing an application on No SQL databases like Cassandra, HBase and Mongo DB.  • Experience in developing unit test cases & Integration test cases using Junit with Miskito.  • Good Knowledge on Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  • Experience in container-based technologies like Docker, Kubernetes, and OpenShift along with the development of Microservices architecture using Spring Boot.  • Implemented Spring AOP for logging mechanism. Experience in using Maven and ANT for build automation.  • Experience in Angular 5 (formerly Angular2) with implementing typescript, components, two-way data binding.  • Experience in developing and a solid understanding of Service Oriented Architecture and Microservices Architecture.  • Extensive experience in working on multiple operating systems including UNIX, Sun Solaris, Linux and Microsoft Windows.  • Effective Team Player with ability to rapidly learn new concepts together with excellent interpersonal skills. Work Experience Java Developer FAA/SAIC - Oklahoma City, OK March 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designing, development and testing of new modules by communicating with client and team members.  • Developing Web applications using Java, J2EE and Hibernate.  • Using Hibernate for the backend persistence.  • Used spring framework for dependency injection and integrated with Hibernate.  • Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML file that contains object declarations and dependencies.  • Developed single page applications using Angular 2/4, Typescript, HTML5, CSS3, and Bootstrap.  • Performed configuration, deployment and support of cloud services including Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Using JUnit with Cucumber plugin and writing feature using Gherkin language  • Extensive experience in testing Hadoop/NoSQL databases, involved in testing back end jobs using SQL queries.  • Designed and implemented the Web Pages of project using ASP.NET & C#.  • Involved in a full complement of Angular 2, Node.js and MongoDB to store and present assessments.  • Used Micro services architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST and Spring Boot.  • Developed and Consumed Web Services using SOAP and Restful API. Performing Load Test using SOAP UI.  • Involved in Business meeting with Client.  • Implemented Micro Services based Cloud Architecture on AWS Platform and Cloud Foundry.  • Responsible for implementation of Hybrid Test Automation Framework build using Selenium, Junit, Maven, Cucumber, Gherkin and Jenkins.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component-based architecture provided by Angular 4.  • Designing the front end using JQuery, JSP, HTML, CSS, Angular Js, Angular 4,Node Js and JavaScript as per the requirements that are provided.  • Setting up, building the environment and deployed project by writing Ant build.xml.  • Working with browsers compatibility issues.  • Involved in writing Java API for Amazon Lambda to manage some of the AWS services.  • Used Microservices are designed with the individual database and project with no dependencies.  • Worked on web applications from scratch using Angular2/4 to develop single page application (SPA).  • Implementing or exposing the Microservices based on RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Managed and administered all NoSQL database systems.  • Performed automation testing before every release using HP ALM and UFT.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, NoSQL, Ajax, XML, CSS, AWS, Angular Js, Angular 2/4, JavaScript, Microservices, SQL, MySQL, Windows, Cucumber, Agile, Eclipse, HTML 5,NodeJs, jQuery, HP Quality Center, Maven, UML. Java Developer Staples - Westminster, CO December 2016 to February 2018 Responsibilities:  Implemented the project using the Spring MVC framework. Used Spring Framework's Dependency Injection to have a loose-coupling.  • Implemented AOP of Spring Framework to implement logging.  • Also incorporated the validation framework for the project. Built various controller classes and application context file.  • Developed web-based portals from scratch using Angular2/4, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap 4, and Node JS, Angular 2.0 is of a Component Driven Architecture.  • Solid Hands-on experience in designing and creation of complete Cloud Formation Templates (JSON/YML Template) to implement whole AWS infrastructure through scripting.  • Used various Java, J2EE design patterns like DAO, DTO, and Singleton etc. Implemented Hibernate instead of traditional JDBC code.  • Developing and consuming web services like SOAP (JAX-WS), REST (JAX-RS) . Wrote SQL Queries to interact with Oracle Database.  • Generating REST (JAX-RS) based web services using Server Oriented Architecture. Implemented custom tags in Struts framework.  • Used Hibernate 3.0 for object relational mapping with the persistent database. Exposed functionally of system to other system by creating Web Services using Jersey.  • Developed a new NodeJS middleware by integrating AngularJS into the new API micro-services through the EAN (Express JS, AngularJS, and Node.JS.) stack. These NodeJS apps will be within Docker containers.  • Used XML Beans for data interchange.  • Implemented JavaScript front end built using Angular Js.  • Worked on spring boot, Spring Rest full template to develop Application Level Micro Services.  • Managed and maintained Oracle and NoSQL databases in production domain.  • Built and deployed and tested on BEA Web logic 10.x. Used Hibernate ORM to persist data to Oracle data base.  • Implemented Micro Services based Cloud Architecture on AWS Platform and Cloud Foundry.  • Evaluated system performance and validated NoSQL solutions.    Environment: JDK 1.5/6, AJAX, Hibernate 3.x, NoSQL, JSP 2.1, Spring, AWS, Microservices, Servlets, Weblogic 10.x, Eclipse 3.x, Oracle 10g, SVN, MS-SQL, PL/SQL, XML, HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, Angular 2/4, Shell Scripting, UNIX. Java Developer Nation Wide - Columbus, OH January 2015 to November 2016 Responsibilities:  • Analyzed, designed and Implemented application architecture to suit the development of software using JAVA/J2EE.  • Contributed as key resource of the " Angular JS Framework Team" in conversion of existing (XMI) UI screens of the application to Angular Js based UI.  • Developed and maintained complex software components / systems in compliance with department standards including JSP, JSTL, EJB, JMS and JAX-WS.  • Developed web-based systems using Internet standards such as HTTP, XML, SOAP, SMTP, Web Services.  • Used Angular 4 ngModel to achieve two-way binding and ngIf to display validation message and error message.  • Solid Hands-on experience in end to end implementation of CI and CD (Continuous Delivery), DevOps processes using AWS Code Commit AWS Code Deploy, AWS Code Pipeline, Jenkins, and Ansible.  • Deployed Spring Boot based Microservices Docker and Amazon EC2 container using AWS admin console.  • Defined AWS Security Groups which acted as virtual firewalls that controlled the traffic allowed reaching one or more AWS EC2 instances. Experience in creating alarms and notifications for EC2 instances using Cloud Watch.  • Data sources from Injection microservices produce and consume data from apache Kafka to enhance data from enhancer microservices.  • Integrated the different pages to be a single page application using Angular 4 and Typescript.  • Provided scalable architecture using Struts, Hibernate, and Spring frameworks.  • Customized XML parsers to parse partner files and generated quantitative analysis report.  • Implemented and maintained the monitoring and alerting of production and corporate servers/storage using AWS Cloud Watch.  • Implemented Microservices architecture using Spring Boot for making application smaller and independent.  • Implemented AJAX framework, utilized JQuery and created custom CSS file for AJAX controls.  • Created, enhanced and modified various Queries, Triggers and tables for MySQL database.  • Constantly identified and implemented system enhancements and improvements.  • Involved in production support and issue tracking activities.    Environment: Core Java, J2EE, RESTful Web Service, Spring, Hibernate, MySQL, ActiveMQ, Servlet, JPA, JMS, Angular Js, JIRA, JSON, XML, Junit, Tomcat, SVN, Jenkin Java Developer Peers Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana March 2013 to December 2014 India    Responsibilities:  • Developed user interface using JSP, JavaScript, CSS and HTML.  • Used Hibernate for Object Relation Mapping (ORM) Java classes.  • Involved in UI development using JSP's.  • Created the design documents with use case diagram, class diagrams, and sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Implemented PL/SQL queries and used Oracle stored procedures, and built-in functions to retrieve and update data from the databases.  • Interfaced with the Oracle back-end using Hibernate Framework and XML Config files.  • Developed enterprise inter-process communication frame work using REST-ful Web Service.  • Developing SOAP Web services and REST Webservices(JAXB, JSON, JAX-RS, JAX-WS).  • Developed Hibernate persistent layer.  • Worked on the JAVA Collections API for handling the data objects between the business layers and the front end Developed Unit test cases using JUnit.  • Involved in Performance Tuning of the application.  • Developed presentation layer using JSP, HTML and CSS, JQuery.  • Involved in Production Support and Maintenance.  • Involved in the analysis, design and development of the application components using JSP, Servlets components using J2EE design pattern.    Environment: J2EE, Java, JSP, Restful, XML, HTML5, Servlets, Oracle, JavaScript, jQuery, Eclipse, IBM WebSphere, Windows 8. Education Bachelor of Technology in Technology Kakatiya University Skills AWT, BEA, BEA WEBLOGIC, ECLIPSE, EJB, Java, Spring, Java J2Ee, Hibernate, J2Ee Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Languages Java JDK1.4/1.5/1.6/1.7/1.8.91/J2EE, Java Script, C++, C, SQL, PL/SQL,.Net, Angular Js,Angular 2/4, Angular 5.  JAVA/ J2EE Technologies Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JDBC, JMS, JNDI, RMI, EJB, JFC/Swing, AWT, Applets, Multi-threading, Cloud technologies like AWS.  Web Applications Oracle/BEA WebLogic 9.1/10.3/11g, JBoss, Tomcat 5.0.28/6.0  Frameworks Struts 2.x, Spring 2.x/3.x, Hibernate 3.x, JSF 1.2/2.0/2.2, iBatis  IDEs Eclipse, Hibernate, MyEclipse.  Testing technologies Junit testing and JMeter.  Database Servers NoSQL, Oracle 9i/10g/11g, DB2, Mongo DB, SQL Server 2000/2005/2008, MySQL  Version Control CVS and SVN.  Build Tools ANT, MAVEN, Cucumber.  OS environment Linux, and Windows.