Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - ForRent.com Norfolk, VA • Around 6+ years of experience in SDLC with the various Cycles like gathering requirements, Analyzing, developing and maintaining of web based as well as enterprise applications using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Experienced in developing front end applications using HTML, HTML5, XML, XHTML, DHTML, CSS, CSS3, Bootstrap, SAAS, micro services, , JavaScript, Spring boot, DOM, jQuery, Ajax, JSON, and JSP.  • Strong knowledge on OOPs concepts Core Java, Multithreading, Exception handling, and Collection framework.  • Strong knowledge of core and J2EE design patterns like MVC, Singleton, Session Facade, Business, Delegate and Data Access Object.  • Experienced in core java, Angular 6/4, cloud, spring boot, CI/CD, splunk, jenkins/jules, exposure to agile, exposure to Junit, bit bucket exposure  • Clustered wine dataset using k-means, agglomerative clustering using python and analyzed results using silhouette plots  • Experience in Microservice using Spring Boot for developing independent application  • Deployed Spring Boot based Micro services Docker and Amazon EC2 container using AWS admin console  • Performed linear regression on the dataset and found the best regression model using different combination of models which gives least AIC value using python  • Strong programming skills towards developing and implementing complete web-based application systems using Java/J2EE technologies- JDBC, JSP, Servlets, Enterprise Java Beans, Struts, JSF, Spring, SOA implementation, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, JNDI, XML, JAXB, JSON, WSDL.  • Strong knowledge in implementing IOC and Dependency Injection features in various aspects of Spring Framework.  • Strong knowledge on the Spring Modules like Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring DAO, Spring Batch, Spring  • Web Flow, Spring Security, Spring AOP, Spring Cloud, spring boot, Spring Batch and Spring Boot.  • Experience in utilizing open-source frameworks such as AngularJS, NodeJS, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, JSF and Jquery.  • Experience in worked in Multi tired environment.  • Hands on experience in designing applications using MVC and MVVM architecture using Angular JS/Angular2/4.  • Experience in consuming RESTful services using Angular http, $resource and jQuery to exchange (request / responses) information with databases such as Oracle and MySQL.  • Experience in developing web applications using Java/J2EE, JSP, Servlets, EJB, JDBC, Spring, Struts, JSF, Hibernate, Web Services and XML.  • Expertise in SOA, Web Services (CXF, XML Beans), Apache Camel and XML technologies (XSLT, Xpath).  • Proven software development experience using different methodologies - Agile, Waterfall and TDD.  • Experienced in using Agile Methodology including creating product/sprint catalogs, active participation in Scrum and Sprint planning.  • Experienced in MEAN stack development (MongoDB, Express.JS, Angular.JS & Node.JS).  • Implemented various screens for the front end using React JS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) library.  • Performed the Synchronous/Asynchronous file operations and created web server with the help of Express Using Node JS.  • Developed REST services using Node JS, Express-JS, Body-Parser, Cassandra and other node modules to serve the web application with JSON data.  • Hands-on experience in relational databases like Oracle 11g, MySQL, MS SQL Server using SQL, PL/SQL programming and NoSQL database Mongo DB.  • Thorough knowledge of Web technologies: XML, WML, SAX/DOM Parser, AJAX, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and JavaScript.  • Proficient in using Tools Jenkins for Continuous Integration Continuous Deployment (CI/CD) of Microservices  • Proficient in integration of Enterprise Java Beans (EJB) with existing applications and using services provided in distributed applications through Web Services (JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, and JAX-RS).  • Extensive development experience on different IDE's like Eclipse, IBM Rational Application Developer, WebSphere Integration Developer and NetBeans.  • Test Driven Programmer with thorough knowledge in Unit testing with JUnit, Mockito and using SoapUI, Postman for Web Service testing, performance testing with JMeter and automated testing with Test Driven Development (TDD) in Extreme Programming model.  • Strong QA Automation experience with Selenium Webdriver, Jbehive and Cucumber.  • Expert in coding using core java concepts like multithreading, collections, serialization, synchronization, exception handling and database connections.  • Experienced in writing complex Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views and triggers with major databases such as Oracle, DB2 and MySQL.  • Experienced in database GUI/IDE Tools using TOAD, DB Visualizer and MySQL Client.  • Strong experience working with version control software like TFS, CVS, Clear Case, Apache Hadoop ,Apache Subversion, GITHUB, Apache Tomcat and build tools ANT, Maven, Gradle and Jenkins.  • Experience in handling/executing projects using Agile methodologies (SCRUM) along with Test Driven Development techniques.  • Strong knowledge on JavaScript Unit testing with Jasmin, Karma, Protractor, Mocha and Chai  • Expertise in object modeling and Object Oriented design methodologies (UML). Experience in creating UML diagrams like Class, Object, Use Case, State and Activity diagrams.  • Excellent written and presentation skills, created reports, technical / functional specifications for stake holder reviews to gain approvals. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer ForRent.com - Norfolk, VA March 2018 to Present Roles & Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements from the client business unit by participating in design discussions and implementation feasibility analysis with business analysts at all levels.  • Involved in Object Oriented Design/Analysis and constructing UML Sequence diagrams and Class Diagrams with Microsoft Visio/Rational Rose.  • Implemented microservice architecture using Spring Boot for making the application reusable and loosely coupled  • Worked on devops tools like Nagios, puppet, bamboo, Ansible.  • Worked on SOA to develop RESTful Web service to generate and consume services from different modules. Implemented MVC Framework to make single page applications [SPAs] for responsive services.  • Developed the application using JSF Spring Framework that uses Model View Controller (MVC) architecture with JSP as the view and JQuery validation framework for front end validations.  • Developed the web application using JSF Framework involving features like Expression Language, action listeners, custom components, etc. Created conditional logics in pages using JSF tags and JSTL.  • Used MVC frameworks like Spring MVC along with JSF and Rich faces. Involved in developing front end screens using JSF, JSTL, JQuery, XHTML, HTML5, CSS, AJAX and JavaScript. Also, involved in adding the Internationalization to the existing application.  • Developed JSF managed beans and backing beans and configured JSF navigation in faces-config.xml of JSF MVC framework. Constructed JSF Portal Framework at Presentation Tier and Faces Servlet acts as the Front Controller.  • Implemented RESTful services with JAX-RS using Spring Boot and Micro Services Architecture.  • Experienced in using Twitter Bootstrap Framework responsive design. Developed UI screens and client-side scripts incorporating Servlets, JSP, JavaScript and XML DOM parser.  • Used Spring ORM Support for Hibernate to manage Hibernate Resources and consistent exception hierarchy.  • Integrated Spring DAO for data access using with Hibernate and Spring Validation Framework for server-side validation.  • Used Spring MVC, Spring ORM and Spring Security modules to integrate with MySQL database to implement persistence layer in Hibernate.  • Implemented various screens for the front end using React JS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) library.  • Implemented React JS to develop UI components and their dynamic rendering based on the actions occurred and the corresponding stores, view components associated with them.  • Proficient in using React JS for creating reusable components along with sliders, charts, grids and handling events.  • Developed Business components using core java concepts like Interfaces, Polymorphism, Collections, and Serialization etc. Used multithreading concepts to overcome errors in the process of concurrent quote transactions. Deployed the application in clustered environments for load balancing and Server failover conditions.  • Designed stored procedures, triggers and functions in MySQL and DB2 for critical business requirements. Created E-R graphs and relationships among different database and creation tables with low coupling.  • Developed generic database Connection Pooling with WebLogic Admin server using Spring, SQL query optimization.  • Developed POJO Classes, *.hbm files for Hibernate ORM in the persistence layer using Hibernate frame work in conjunction with Spring AOP functionality.  • Developed objects using JMS API for asynchronous communication and used JMS-MQ bridge as provider to send messages in a secure, reliable and asynchronous method.  • Involved in performing Unit and Integration testing (JUnit). Strictly followed TDD using Agile methodologies.  • Used Apache JMeter for load testing and log4J for debugging with various levels. Used Subversion for version control across common source code used by developers and deployed the applications on WebLogic Application Server. Utilized Gradle for continuous integration.    Environment: Java 1.6, J2EE, JSP, JSF, JSTL, Servlets, Hibernate, React JS, Spring MVC, Spring Security, MySQL, SQL, MySQL, DB2, WebLogic Application Server, JMS, XML, JavaScript, JQuery, SOAP, React, UML, SVN, JUnit, Log4J, Gradle, TDD, JMeter. Full stack Developer SAIC - Reston, VA January 2016 to February 2018 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Worked on Agile Rally dev for define user stories, tasks and defects.  • Developed Transaction tracking application for profit centers using Spring MVC, Angular-JS, Angular-UI, Html, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Utilized Angular.JS UI-bootstrap components like time picker, directives, model pop-ups, ng-grid, router, progress bar, ng-Idle, ng-Upload. Implemented flexible routing and nested using Angular.JS-ui-router.  • Experience in Microservice using Spring Boot for developing independent application  • Used Bootstrap and media queries to create a Responsive Webpage across different screen-sizes.  • Developed user stories using Core Java and spring and consumed Rest web services exposed from the profit center.  • Worked on SOAP UI for testing request/response client internal/external web service and outbound internal/external web services.  • Responsible for Offshore & technical support and maintenance of its daily batch jobs.  • Developed Apache Camel routes and defined JMS endpoints for message processing and routing.  • Used Jackson for converting JSON to domain object and domain to JSON vice versa.  • Worked on Web Logic 12c for deployed interface modules and used Oracle 11g for persist the data getting from external system (Amdocs).  • Used JUnit framework for unit testing of client inbound and outbound web services and Log4j 1.2 to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  • Configured Hibernates second level cache using EHCache to reduce the number of hits to the configuration table data  • Used JUnit framework for unit testing of application and Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  • Used JAX-RPC Web Services using JERSEY REST to process the application for the customer  • Developed Web services for sending and getting data from different applications using REST, such as Loan Applications, to transfer data from Branch Server to Head Office Server, then used SAX and DOM XML1.1 parsers for data retrieval.  • Used SVN for version control and used eclipse as the IDE for developing the application.  • Analyzed code coverage report from Jenkins to improve code coverage and configured multiple plugins in deploying applications.  • Used oracle as backend database using Windows OS, Involved in development of PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages and Triggers.  • Used Maven for create the project archetype and build the interface modules for create war and ear files.  • Managed the development team at offshore and provided necessary information and artifacts.  • Supported Testing Teams and involved in defect meetings.  • Involved in system design, development, testing, debugging and took part in creating documentation.  • Deployed the application on a Web Logic server on a UNIX platform.    Environment: Agile, Core Java 1.8, Spring 3.2, Spring MVC, Jenkins, Angular-JS 1.3, Angular-UI, HTML 5, Bootstrap 3.3, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery 1.8, SOAP UI, Apache Camel, JIRA, JMS, Jackson, Web Logic 12c, Oracle 11g, JUnit, Log4j 1.2, Crucible, EHCache, JERSEY REST, SVN, eclipse, Maven 3.1, Unix. Java Developer Geisinger Health Plan - Danville, PA March 2013 to December 2015 Roles & Responsibilities  • Implemented the project according to the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  • Developed the web layer using Spring MVC framework.  • Implemented JDBC for mapping an object-oriented domain model to a traditional relational database.  • Created Stored Procedures to manipulate the database and to apply the business logic according to the user's specifications.  • Involved in analyzing, designing, implementing and testing of the project.  • Developed UML diagrams like Use cases and Sequence diagrams as per requirement.  • Developed the Generic Classes, which includes the frequently used functionality, for reusability.  • Exception Management mechanism using Exception Handling Application Blocks to handle the exceptions.  • Designed and implemented the application's configuration system, including Swing based GUI.  • Experience with Oracle's ATG 10.x BCC pricing components - especially the Flex UI  • Experience on scripting (e.g. Bash, PowerShell, Perl, Ruby, Python)  • Expertise in web front-end technologies such as , JavaScript, Ajax, JSF, CSS, HTML and/or Flex and developing browser compatible applications  • Experience building Adobe Flex or Adobe Air applications with ActionScript  • Worked on a code generation framework that generated Java Swing code from XML  • For Presentation side used technologies core java, SWINGS and Custom framework of FedEx (OMNI).  • Designed and developed user interfaces using JSP, Java script, HTML and Struts framework.  • Involved in Database design and developing SQL Queries, stored procedures on MySQL.  • Developed Action Forms and Action Classes in Struts frame work.  • Developed and maintained front end applications and web applications for ecommerce.  • Programmed session and entity EJBs to handle user info track and profile based transactions.  • Involved in writing JUnit test cases, unit and integration testing of the application.  • Developed user and technical documentation.  • Designed and implemented the application's configuration system, including Swing based GUI.  • Involved in creation of GUI using Java Swing    Environment: JAVA, Java Script, HTML, JDBC Drivers, Soap Web Services, UNIX, Shell scripting, SQL Server QA Analyst TCS - IN September 2010 to October 2011 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Attending business review call with client and understand the Application Scenarios.  • Writing Test Cases for the Client Scenarios and get Baseline from Client.  • Upload Test Cases in Quality Center and maintain the Defect History.  • Validating all Agreement types and profiles are working as per the requirement.  • Perform End to End testing and get the Defects resolved by Development.  • Participating in Bug Review Calls and Status reporting & Tracking.  Developed Restful Micro Services using Spring Rest and MVC, for OSS services  • Provide Documentation to the client and get it Approved.  • Generating Bug Report based on the release.  • Executing test cases using UNIX, SQL and Shell script.  • Supporting different phases of testing IST and UAT as system tester.  • GUI testing-Various browser testing.  • Followed Agile Methodology for the project.  • Analyzed requirement documents to formulate the test cases and conducted manual  • testing for the entire application  • Created test scenarios, test cases and test scripts for the application under test (AUT)    Tools & Environment: Quality Center 9.2, Web Sphere App Server 6.1, DB2, Windows XP/Vista, Java, Web services, SoapUI, Eclipse. Education Master of computer Application in computer Application Anna University - Chennai, Tamil Nadu 2009 Bachelor of Science Nagarjuna University 2006 Skills Database, Db2, Sql server, Sql server 2000, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Application development, Docker, Git, Gradle, Jenkins, Svn, Visio, Rational, Rational rose, Sdlc, Uml, Junit, Selenium, J2Ee, Spring, Java J2Ee, Java, JSP, Javascript, Hibernate, Angularjs