Android Application Developer Android Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Android Application Developer - State Farm Bloomington, IL • Over 6 years of Experience in Analysis, Design, Development and testing of software applications, which includes around 4years of experience in mobile application development using Android and 2 years of experience in JAVA J2EE.  • Extensive experience in all phases of Mobile Development (Activity) Life Cycle and Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • In-depth knowledge of Android OS, interactive application development, and memory management. Proficient with common Android SDK, Android framework APIs and Google Cloud Messaging Platform.  • Designed and developed the user interfaces, Dynamic UI with Fragments using Material design guidelines.  • Expertise in developing applications for android operating system using Android Studio, Eclipse IDE, SQLite, Java, XML, Android SDK and ADT plug-in.  • Experience in designing and developing adaptive UI components, Widgets for Android phones with different screen resolutions.  • In-depth knowledge in Object Oriented Programming concepts and implementation.  • Extensive experience in practicing mature Agile and Scrum development methodologies.  • Good experience with common Android framework APIs (Location, Camera, Notifications, Maps).  • Strong knowledge of basic components ie: Activity, Fragment, Services, Broadcast Receiver and Content Providers.  • Used Services, Asynctasks and Alert Notification API to implement event reminder feature into the mobile Application.  • Experience with SQL writing stored procedures, functions, data types, queries, Indexes, triggers, Performance Tuning, Query Optimization.  • In-depth knowledge of debugging skills like Logcat, DDMS, Trace view.  • Extensive experience in developing applications and Web design using J2EE Design Patterns and MVC Architecture.  • Worked on Source Code version control systems like SVN & CVS.  • Experience of using GIT Version Control.  • Exposure to other mobile platforms like iOS.  • Excellent Analytical, interpersonal and communication skills.  • Good work ethics, hardworking nature and very good team player and ability to effectively communicate with all levels of organization such as technical, management.  • Always Curious to learn new skills or a new technology. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Android Application Developer State Farm - Bloomington, IL August 2015 to Present Project: Pocket Agent App development  App Link: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.statefarm.pocketagent  Responsibilities:  • Extensively worked on Android SDK for development.  • Involved in planning, design, development, debugging and deployment of the application.  • Designed and developed in accordance with Material Design guidelines for visuals, motion and interactive design of the application.  • Used web views, list views & populated lists to display: user claims, policy information, payment methods etc.  • Used SQLite to store user data (insurance plans, claims) locally to the device.  • Worked with Android Location, Maps framework APIs to contact any agent or locate a nearby agent.  • Used Leak Canary tool to find memory leaks and made sure app is consuming less battery when in idle.  • Implemented cloud integration to notify the app that there is new content for the users to sync.  • Used Gradle for dependency management and Jenkins for continuous integration of the modules.  • Worked with GIT repository and Gerrit for a centralized web based code review.  • Experience on Ruby Reg-Ex for pattern and Text matching.  • Interacted with UX team for new features and prototypes.  • Consumed Web Services using REST, JSON, XML Parsing.  • Made use of developer tools like GPU profiling and overdraw features to optimize the code.  • Tested the app across different versions of Android to assure quality and performance.  • Deployed the application to android market and updated with new releases.    Environment: Android API's, SQLite 3.8, JDK 1.6, XML, JSON, HTML, CSS, SQLite, TFS server, Android Emulator, GPS service, Log cat, Windows Android Developer Chase - San Francisco, CA March 2014 to August 2015 Project: In-Drive  App Link: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.jpm.sig.android  Responsibilities:  • Worked on the different phases of the development cycle like the existing design, development of new features, testing and deployment.  • Involved in discussion with the business team and gathering the requirements.  • Responsible for design and implementation of Location based service using Google Maps API that enables to search the nearby ATMS located.  • Designed the architecture and User Interface (UI/UX) based on the client requirements.  • Designed the App screen navigation using Dialog boxes, Action Bar Navigation control and designed Menus based on the user context.  • Developed App screens and its workflow using Activity and Fragments which has Listview and Scrollview.  • Download and upload content from back end web server via REST API and implemented Broadcast Receivers for Android.  • Handled image quality by tracking the lighting and background of the check, in the capture mode using algorithms.  • Analyzing application with Trace View tool to improve performance and layouts with Hierarchy Viewer.  • Design and Development of Android native client application.  • Used the version controller like GIT.  Environment: Android Studio, Android SDK, ADT Plug-in , Windows, JSON, XML, Java and GPS services. Android developer Verizon Telematics - Atlanta, GA January 2013 to February 2014 App Link: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.verizontelematics.networkfleet.driver  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the project full development life cycle which includes Planning, analyzing, design, implementation, testing and its maintenance.  • Created custom UI components for vehicle diagnostics screen with different states for vehicle components.  • Used shinobi chat engine to plot different vehicle diagnostics related data.  • Used Zxing library for scanning vehicle vin numbers.  • Implemented SQLite database structure to handle the contact list and content.  • Used Fragments to design and develop modular User Interface.  • Implemented JSON data to consume REST based web services.  • Used Google Map, Location service, and Geocoding to retrieve data to the user.  • Worked on Action Bar, and creating custom components, styles and themes.  • Used Android JUnit extension to create test cases.  • Implemented parallel processing using Services, Asynctask, Thread Pool Executor, Job-Scheduler using multi- threading.  • Utilized different resources like fragments, views, activities, frame, animations, etc.  • Implemented BVT (Build Verification Test).  • Worked on an Android Service to implement the Push Notification.  • Strong understanding in Android QA optimization.  Environment: Java, Android Studio, Android SDK, Gradle Build Tools, DDMS, Robotium, Tortoise SVN. Java Developer Digi Informatics - Hyderabad, Telangana February 2011 to November 2012 Project: World Wide Manufacturing  Responsibilities:  • Involved in various SDLC phases like Design, Development and Testing.  • Developed various product applications using Java/J2EE and Front end technologies.  • Involved in web designing using HTML5, XHTML, CSS 2/3, JavaScript and extensively used Table less Design in CSS for Positioning.  • Designed DOM based interactive to reprogram selected links for HTML and XHTML and W3C standards for CSS as well.  • Developed CSS3 style sheets to give gradient effects. Developed page layouts, navigation and icons. Applied industry best practices and standards when project requirements were lagging.  • Understanding and profiling the ODL Controller and Customized interface.  • Coded in AngularJS MVC Framework to make single page app and complex price configurations pages.  • Wrote stored procedures in Oracle PL/SQL for data entry and retrieval.  • Unit testing for JavaScript functionality with the jasmine framework.  • Used Oracle and NoSQL as RDBMS for developing the web application service.  • Used jQuery to make the HTML, DHTML and CSS code interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side and used React.js for designing front end.  • Extensively used CSS and Bootstrap for styling the HTML elements.  • Used AJAX effectively to create pagination and with client side events like quick search.  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like Angular.JS and Ext JS.    Environment: JSP, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, Hibernate, MVVM/MVC, SASS, AJAX, REST, WSDL, UDDI, Oracle, SOA, JSON, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JSP, Servlets, Maven, Rally, Selenium, Eclipse, GIT. Java Developer Value Labs - Hyderabad, Telangana December 2010 to November 2011 Project: Aperion  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the software life cycle processes like Analysis, Design, Coding, Implementation, Review, Unit  • Involved in requirements analysis and gathering and converting them into technical specifications using UML diagrams: Use Case Model, Business Domain Model, Activity & Sequence Diagrams and State Diagrams.  • Developed various product applications using Java/J2EE and Front end technologies  • Interacted with Business users and Business Analyst to gather requirements.  • Involved in the analysis & design of the application using UML with Rational Rose.  • Used Struts Framework in the application, which is based on MVC design pattern.  • Extensive use of HTML5 with JSTL, JSP and JQuery for the presentation layer along with Java script for client side validation.  • GUI Implementation using JQuery, AJAX, CSS, Bootstrap, HTML5.  • Extensively used Spring IOC, Hibernate, Core Java such as Multi-Threading, Exceptions, Collections etc. in application  • Configuration and deployment of application on to JBoss application server  • Developed Servlets and Server side components using EJB 3.0 under J2EE Environment.  • Used JNDI to lookup for the data sources required and used Eh cache for general purpose caching.  • Used Spring MVC, Spring ORM and Spring Security modules to integrate with MongoDB to implement the persistence layer in Hibernate.  • Designed tables in Oracle 10g database and worked with Database Developers for implementing Stored Procedures in the application.  • Assisted Database Developers using PL/SQL for managing data associated with the tables.  • Involved in the deployment of Web-Service End-Points using Apache CXF.  • Worked with Mocking while running the JUnit test cases for Batch processing.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Java1.6, JTSL, J2EE, EJB, MongoDB, Junit, spring, Unix, Hibernate, Linux, Axis, SQL Server, PHP, MVC, Junit, Eclipse, Ant, SOAP. Education Bachelor's Skills Git (5 years), JAVA (5 years), CSS (4 years), ANDROID (4 years), TESTING (4 years), Android API's, SQLite 3.8, JDK 1.6, XML, JSON, HTML, CSS, SQLite, TFS server, Android Emulator, GPS service, Log cat, Windows (8 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Mobile Technologies Android (Gingerbread - Marshmallow), iOS, J2ME  Web Technologies XML, HTML5, CSS, Java Script, AJAX, JSP, AngularJS, jQuery  Programming Languages JAVA, C, C++, Objective C  Databases SQLite, Oracle, SQL, Microsoft Access  Multimedia Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Flash, Adobe Dreamweaver  Version Control GIT, SVN and CVS  Frameworks MVC, MVVM, MVP  IDE Android Studio, Eclipse, Net Beans, Xcode, Visual Studio  Operating System Windows [ ], macOS, Linux  Other Applications MS office Suite, Adobe Photoshop, Wireshark  Testing Frameworks Android Unit Testing, Junit