Senior Java Developer Senior <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> New York, NY ? Over 8 years of experience in IT industry in analysis, design, development, and, integration of large client-server and web based applications.  ? Expertise in deploying applications on Websphere 5.x/6.x, WebLogic 8.1/9.1, JBoss 4.2, Tomcat 4.x/5.x/6.0.  ? Extensive knowledge and exposure in web based multi-tier and client/server applications using J2EE Architecture Framework. I have used a wide variety of technologies for building the applications, including Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Java Beans, EJB, JDBC, Java Web Services, SOAP, Java Script, Struts, Hibernate, JSF, HTML, XHTML , CSS, XML, JSTL, JUnit, AJAX, Ant, HTML/HTML5, XHTML, DHTML, XML, CSS 2/3, AJAX, DOM, JSON, Bootstrap, and AngularJS, JavaScript, JQuery, and JAVA technology.    ? Proficient in building WebUser Interface UI using HTML5, DHTML, CSS3 and Java Script that follows W3C Web Standards and are browser compatible.  ? Expertise in developing front-end systems with JavaScript, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, MVC frameworks such as Angular JS, Backbone JS and Node JS as a platform for Web applications.  ? Used Node JS for server side web applications for java script codes to build real-time web API's.  ? Hands on experience in using IDE tools like Eclipse, JBuilder, NetBeans, WSAD and My Eclipse. Proficient in MVC Framework Architecture Model-View-Controller Architecture for constructing web applications with Struts, Java Servlets and JSPs Struts 2.0, Spring 3.0 Dependency Injection, Data Access Objects, MVC Framework and Spring Web Flow and Oracle Apps Framework  ? Good understanding of Object Oriented Analysis and Design and UML notations and experience in using design tools like Rational Rose for creating class, use case and sequence diagrams  ? Experience building web applications with JavaScript, Ruby on Rails, and/or Java  ? Expertise to access/connect Data Access Objects to the database layer using Hibernate/JPA.  ? Experience in XML, Web Services using SOAP, XML-RPC, JAX-RPC, JAXB and Restful.  ? Experienced in programming, deploying, configuring, and fine-tuning middle-tier popular J2EE Application Servers like open source Apache Tomcat, JBOSS, Web Logic and WAS.  ? Expert in working with cutting edge front-end technologies/ framework and libraries like JQuery, Prototype, X HTML, DHTML, OO JavaScript, JSON, DOM, CSS, XML/XSLT, AJAX.  ? Good knowledge of latest version of object oriented JavaScript Libraries like Angular.js, Node.JS, Backbone, Bootstrap, ExtJS 4.0, Require, Handlebar's, and Dojo toolkit.  ? Working experience of control version tools like SVN, CVS, Clear Case and PVCS.  ? Knowledgeable with RDBMS concepts like writing SQL Queries, Functions, Stored Procedures and PL/SQL Packages.  ? Working experience of Relational DBMS like Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL, DB2, Toad for performing SQL and PL/SQL programming and NoSQL DB like MongoDB.  ? Good knowledge of Grunt, GITS, HTTP and Restful services.  ? Self-motivated, able to set priorities to achieve immediate and long-term goals.  ? Eager to learn new technologies and can easily adapt to the new technologies and tools. Work Experience Senior Java Developer Capital one - New York, NY January 2017 to Present Description: (Content Management Development) HBO is an America's most leading premium cable and satellite television company. It is premium cable television network owned by Home box office Inc .HBO is the second largest subscription channel in America it reached around 28.2 million subscribers in united states. Most of their applications are developed in-house and are primarily used for their internal business / operations as well as diverse data management. This project is to develop cutting-edge consumer web experiences using Front-end technologies like HTML5/CSS3, for more effective functionalities AngularJS and Backbone JavaScript frameworks, JQuery library, Microsoft Smart Glass (companion application for Xbox) are used.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in SDLC requirements gathering, analysis, design, development and testing of application, developed using AGILE/Scrum¬¬ methodology.  ? Using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery and AngularJS created GUI interface of the web page.  ? Created AngularJS controllers, services and used Angular filters for filter functionality in search box and integrator functionalities.  ? Used AngularJS and Node JS in effective web design.  ? To get AJAX functionality for the website wrote JavaScript and JQuery programming.  ? Implemented RESTful Web services in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) to retrieve data from client side and made REST API calls from Angular JS and parsed the data to client and handled the security and Authorization using Spring Security and OAuth2authentication protocol respectively.  ? Connected to Data sources and performed operations using Spring Data Framework features like Spring JDBC and Spring ORM.  ? Created customized AMIs based on already existing AWS EC2 instances by using create image functionality, hence using this snapshot for disaster recovery.  ? Troubleshoot AWS EC2 Status check including System Status checks and Instance Status check alerts.  ? Integrated Spring DAO for data access using Hibernate to fetch data from database and avoid redundant database access statements.  ? To lookup queues, used Spring JMS module and MDBs for listeners.  ? Used Database Connectors to connect with respective systems using Mule ESB.  ? Extensively used HQL and SQL for querying databases.  ? Work on designing specific programs efficiently through knowledge of multithreading using the API with the goal of increasing performance on a wide variety of applications.  ? Created Stored Procedures, functions, views, indexes and constraints, triggers required SQL tuning to reduce the response time in the application.  ? Develop, run and scheduled queries using SQL and T-SQL scripts.  ? Built NoSQL schemas and maintaining sessions by MongoDB.  ? To identify user login information written UNIX shell scripts.  ? Developed and executing unit test cases using JUnit.  ? Packaged and deployed the application in IBM WebSphere.  ? Used Maven building tool for creating EAR file deployed in application servers and used for dependency management of code in application.  ? Resolved bugs/defects in application by coordinating with team members of the project to assure a positive outcome.  ? For application logging and notification, tracing mechanisms used Log4J.  ? To keep track of issues and tasks on individuals used JIRA ticketing system.  ? As a version, control tool used GIT.  Environment: Java, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, AJAX, AngularJS, Node JS, JSP, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Security, Spring Data, Hibernate, JDBC, Restful, OAuth2, JAX-RS, Jersey, XML, AWS, SQL, Oracle, MongoDB, RAD, WebSphere, Tortoise SVN, GIT, JUnit, Maven, JIRA, Agile/Scrum Methodology. Senior Java Developer Hachette Book Group - Boston, MA November 2015 to December 2016 Description:Hachette Book Group (HBG) is owned by Hachette Livre, the largest publishing company in France, and the third largest trade and educational publisher in the world. In addition to selling and distributing its own imprints, HBG provides a wide range of custom services to third party publishers, such as distribution, fulfillment, digital and sales services.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in analysis, design and development and testing phases of SDLC using Agile Methodology.  ? Involved in implementation of the presentation layer (GUI) for application using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Implements responsive design template to get a new interface in Bootstrap, HTML.  ? Developed Single page application and structured the JavaScript code using AngularJS.  ? Created proof-of-concept using responsive web design, Node.js, React JS, HTML5 and CSS3.  ? Implement modules into Node JS to integrate with designs and requirements.  ? Classes to interact with business logic and used Spring Framework for AngularJS layer design patterns.  ? Used Spring MVC framework to enable the interactions between JSP/view layer and implemented different design patterns with J2EE and XML technology.  ? Using Spring Framework implemented dependency injection, Action classes through Application Context XML and initialized managed beans and services.  ? For reporting, logging and Transactions purposes used Spring AOP.  ? Used Spring Front Controller class to map all the client requests to it and navigated to Business Controller classes accordingly.  ? Developed Web Services using XML messages that use SOAP.  ? Designed and documented REST/HTTP APIs, including JSON data formats and API versioning strategy.  ? Worked with team to architect micro services for the management of SunGard AS cloud platform.  ? Created and consumed SOAP Web Services using JAXB annotations.  ? Used Apache camel for end-to-end messaging.  ? Implementation of Restful services in Apache camel using rest component, event notified, JSON.  ? Developed persistence layer Data access objects using DAO pattern, JDBC, Hibernate.  ? Developed custom queries using hibernate criteria, native SQL and HQL.  ? Monitoring performance and optimizing SQL queries for maximum efficiency.  ? Designed Hibernate mapping files based on business logic and Object relationships.  ? Configured EH Cache to load the static tables into secondary storage area.  ? Develop SQL and PL/SQL scripts to transfer tables across the schemas and databases.  ? Designed and coded application components utilizing a test-driven development approach (TDD).  ? Focused on Test Driven Development thereby creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality before actually writing the functionality.  ? Created Shell Script to invoke Java programs on UNIX batch platforms.  ? Used Jenkins as build management tool for continuous integration process.  ? Produced comprehensive documentation for Micro services and Applications supporting Change Management process.  ? JIRA, used to keep a track of bugs and Git as version control tool.  ? Deployed applications on WebLogic application server.  Environment: Java, HTML, XHTML, DHTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JSON, JQuery, AngularJS, Node JS, Spring (dependency injection, AOP, MVC), Struts, Restful, SOAP, Micro services, JAX-RPC, WSDL, Apache Camel, Hibernate, PL/SQL, SQL, Oracle, TDD, WebLogic, STS, BRMS, UNIX, JUnit, JIRA, GIT, Jenkins. Java/J2EE Developer T-Mobile - Atlanta, GA January 2014 to October 2015 Description: E-Commerce site for consumers to encourage easy T-Mobile wireless/Internet family products, shopping cart and check out process with cutting edge technologies. This project enabled T-Mobile users to have a single global T-Mobile identifier based on standards such as OAuth 2.0 and OpenID.  Responsibilities:  ? Worked in a team, Involved in developing the UI, layout and front-end programming (HTML) for web application that matches requirements of T-Mobile.  ? Interacted with Business Users to capture business needs, functional needs, managing expectations, and reviewing deliverables to ensure a successful implementation.  ? Used UML for designing class diagrams and sequence diagrams.  ? Involved in creating the various user interfaces UI using JSP, DHTMLX, JavaScript, and CSS, MQ and/or Message-oriented Middleware. Developed all the UI pages using HTML5, XUL, DHTML, XSL/XSLT, XHTML, CSS3, JSON, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax  ? Used Spring Framework for DI Dependency Injection, Transaction Management and AOP.  ? Implemented MVC architecture using spring framework and working with ruby.  ? Experience with modern ORM technology such as Rail's Active Record or equivalent  ? Responsible for writing J2EE compliant code using Java for an application development effort. This involves working with JSP, Servlets, JDBC, XML, EJB etc.  ? Used JQuery to traverse through a DOM tree and manipulated the nodes in the tree. Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using JQuery framework.  ? Configured Spring IOC container to manage Lifecycle of Service Objects.  ? Configured hibernate with SQL Server.  ? Automated integrated the JUnit test.  ? Experience with Test Driven Development and Dockers and Node.js.  ? Fixed bugs, providing production support enhanced the applications with additional features.  ? Involved in developing XUL, HTML, and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  ? Responsible for setting up Angular JS framework for UI development. Developed html views with HTML5, CSS3, JSON and AngularJS.  ? Involved in Enhancement of existing application utilizing AngularJS, created HTML navigation menu that is role based wherein menu items changes dynamically based on the values derived from the database in the form of XML. Used Bootstrap and AngularJS in effective web design.  ? HTML, and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  ? Involved in writing and modifying Procedure, Queries, Views and Triggers.  ? Written SQL Queries to interact with Oracle database.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Eclipse, IBM WebSphere, Hibernate, SQL Server, JUnit, SVN, Windows XP, DHTMLX, , JavaScript, JQuery, HTML5, XML, CSS3, Angular.js, backbone.js, Require.js, bootstrap, MVC, Adobe Fireworks, Photoshop, Dreamweaver, Illustrator, AJAX, XML, Eclipse, Internet Explorer, , Chrome, PL/SQL, Toad, Windows Java/J2EE Developer Edward Jones - St. Louis, MO January 2011 to December 2013 Description:Edward Jones is a decidedly different kind of investment firm. Our mission is to help individuals reach their serious, long-term financial goals. The web application provides functionalities such as policy management, profile management and claim reporting. The customer can access complete account information, policy information, receive instant auto insurance quote and report a claim.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in development and implementation phases of the application in SDLC.  ? Followed AGILE Methodology to promote iterations, collaboration, and process adaptability and participated in SCRUM Meetings throughout the life cycle of project.  ? Used Spring Framework for dependency injection for Action classes using Application Context XML file using MVC design patterns.  ? Used Spring Front Controller class to map all the client requests to it and navigated to Business Controller classes accordingly.  ? Utilized the Spring AOP feature for implanting crosscutting concerns like logging and Transaction Management and separated the business logic from System Services.  ? Used Spring Validations Framework for validating the properties of java beans.  ? Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection, Spring Web Services framework.  ? Prepared calls through Hibernate and Spring JDBC for Interacting with the Database.  ? Used Java API and converted Java Objects to XML conversions using XML Web Services (JAX-WS).  ? Developed web Services for sending and extracting data from different applications using SOAP messages.  ? Implemented Log4J framework and customized to meet the application requirements.  ? Developed SCM by using the JSP/HTML like one form for each functionality user interface, standard validations using the JavaScript.  ? Wrote ANT scripts for building application artifacts, clean-up jobs and system components during system testing, integration testing and production environment.  ? Involved in writing complex queries in business logic layer and worked on creating the setups for Organization Templates, Concurrent Requests, Cross Reference Types, User Creations, Assigning responsibilities in Oracle Applications.  ? Used Firebug to keep a track of bugs and CVS as version control manager.  ? Deployed the application in JBoss Application Server after test QA team.  Environment: Java, JavaScript, AJAX, spring, Spring AOP, Spring Security, XML, JDK, JSP, Spring MVC, Hibernate, SOAP, WSDL, Oracle, TDD, Log4J, JUnit, ANT, JBoss, CVS, Fire Bug, Agile Methodology JAVA Developer Birla Soft - IN January 2010 to December 2010 Description: This project was designed to build a Common Access Platform for customers and insurance agents using Internet to interact with the system from any part and allow the customers to buy insurance online. Also, used by the HR department to manage the vast information generated due to massive business operations. Main objective is to help in tracking HR related issues, optimize and increase the productivity.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in understanding and analyzing the requirements of the project.  ? Followed Waterfall Methodology to implement the features.  ? Used Java Jdk1.5 features to implement the functionalities.  ? Designed and developed the User Interface using HTML, JavaScript, AJAX and CSS.  ? Implemented Struts MVC design pattern and front controller pattern.  ? Developed Action Class components for performing business process execution and involved in configuration of struts configuration specific xml file.  ? Developed Core Java components to develop the transaction report. Stored the dynamic data on to Collection Objects and used the predefined methods to perform all DB related operations efficiently.  ? Created and handled Custom-Exceptions that are related to business operations. Created child Threads to improve the performance by running some independent tasks at background.  ? Developed Server-Side components for the business services for creating Items, BOM, Sourcing Rules, and substitute.  ? Used Log4j for logging purposes during the development of the application.  ? Used JDBC to interact with the underlying MySQL Database.  ? Extensively worked on SQL for writing complex queries in the business logic layer.  ? Deployed Applications on Apache Tomcat Server and used CVS as the version control manager.  ? Used Mantis for tracking the issues and for enhancements of any features.  ? Used Eclipse IDE to integrate the different frameworks in order to build the overall application.  Environment: Java, JDBC, Servlets, Struts, JSP, Hibernate, Java Mail API, AJAX, HTML, XML, ANT, Log4J, CVS, RAD, Putty, MySQL, Mantis, Apache Tomcat, Eclipse IDE, Waterfall Methodology. Java/J2ee Developer ICICI Bank October 2009 to December 2010 Description: ICICI Bank Ltd is one of the largest among the private-sector banks in India offering a comprehensive suite of financial products. It is a Private-sector bank. In the retail banking category, the bank offers services such as lending to individuals/small businesses subject to the orientation, product and granularity criterion, along with liability products, card services, Internet banking, automated teller machines (ATM) services, depository, financial advisory services,  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in SDLC- Requirements gathering, Conceptual Design, Analysis, Detail Design, Development, System Testing and User Acceptance Testing.  ? Implemented Use Case Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams during the design phase using Rational Rose.  ? Developed user interface with Servlets and JSP.  ? Responsible in creating Servlets, which route submittals to appropriate Enterprise Java Bean (EJB) components and render, retrieved information.  ? Involved in implementing the DAO pattern for database connectivity and used the JDBC API extensively using MySQL database.  ? Designed and developed the UI using JSP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  Environment:IBM WebSphere, Servlets, JSP, XML, CSS, JavaScript, EJB, JDBC, MySQL, UML, DHTML, CSS, HTML. Education Bachelor's Skills Java (8 years), JavaScript (8 years), JDBC (8 years), JSP (8 years), XML (8 years), Java, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, AJAX, AngularJS, Node JS, JSP, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Security, Spring Data, Hibernate, JDBC, Restful, OAuth2, JAX-RS, Jersey, XML, AWS, SQL, Oracle, MongoDB, RAD, WebSphere, Tortoise SVN, GIT, JUnit, Maven, JIRA, Agile/Scrum Methodology (7 years) Additional Information Technical Skill Set:  Programming Languages Java, JavaScript, J2EE, C, C , SQL    Operating Systems Win XP/Vista/7/8/10, Linux  Client Side Programming HTML/HTML5, CSS2/CSS3, DHTML, XML, XHTML, XSLT, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, JSON, AngularJS  Server Side Programming  J2EE, Java EE 5, Servlets 2.1/2.2,JSP 2.0, JSTL1.1,EJB 1.1/2.0/3.0, JDBC 2.0/3.0, RMI, XML,XSL,XSLT,XSD, DTD, XQuery, UML, Work-Flow, MVC, JSF, STRUTS, Spring MVC, Spring Web Flow, Spring AOP, Spring IOC, Hibernate, Java Threads, Swings    JavaScript Libraries Ext JS 2.0/1.0, Backbone.js 0.9.2 , Require.js, Node.js, Angular.js  Web Services  SOAP, RESTful, UDDI, WSDL, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, Jersey, Rest Easy, JAX-B, Apache Axis2, Apache CFX, AWS (Amazon Web services), Micro services    RDBMS Oracle, SQL-Server, MySQL server, TOAD, Mongo DB/ NOSQL, DB2  Application Server WebLogic, Tomcat, WebSphere, JBOSS  Tools Ant, VNC, Toad, SQL Developer  Task Runners Grunt and Gulp task runners  Design Tools Rational Rose, MS Visio  Version Control Clear Case, CVS, SVN  IDE and Tools  NetBeans, Eclipse, RAD, Eclipse IDE, Firebug, Developer Tools, EditPlus, JSfiddle, Sublime text, Bugzilla, Ant, Maven, Log4j, Jprobe    O-R mapping Hibernate, My Batis  Modeling/ CASE Tools Rational Rose, MS Visio Professional  Testing Tools JUnit, Mockito, Selenium, Soap UI, Putty, Rational Clear Quest, RTC