DevOps Engineer DevOps Engineer DevOps Engineer - T Rowe Price Baltimore, MD • Around 5+ years of extensive experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including requirement analysis, design specification, coding and testing of enterprise applications.  • Experience in Creating AWS cloud formation templates to create custom-sized VPC, Subnets, EC2 instances, ELB, Security groups and other AWS Services like Cloud Front, CloudWatch, RDS, S3, Route53, SNS, SQS, Cloud Trail.  • Expertise in automating, configuring, deploying and monitoring instances, volumes on cloud environments and data centers.  • Experienced in providing end to end solutions for hosting the web application on AWS cloud  • Experienced in setting up project baselines, branching, merging and taking regular backups of the source in SVN, GIT and GitHub.  • Expertise in DevOps, Release Engineering, Configuration Management, Cloud Infrastructure Automation using Amazon Web Services (AWS), Jenkins, Chef and GitHub.  • Experienced in using build tools like Maven, Ant, and Gradle for the building of deployable artifacts from source code and pushing them into the Nexus repository.  • Extensively worked in monitoring infrastructure to identify and troubleshoot issues on servers using tools like Nagios, Splunk, and JIRA.  • Experience in creating Nagios Monitoring infrastructure and various Nagios plugins Script based on Perl and Python for checking the health of App servers and for monitoring loads.  • Experienced in working with Docker container snapshots, attaching it to a running container, managing containers, directory structures and removing Docker images. Used Docker Swarm to maintain the cluster of containers and written a Docker compose file in YAML to spin up the containers at the same time.  • Hand-On experience with Build and Deployment of CI/CD pipelines, managing projects which often includes tracking multiple deployments across multiple pipeline stages (Dev, Test/QA staging and production)  • Expertise in implementing a production ready, highly available, fault tolerant Kubernetes infrastructure and Worked on Scheduling, deploying and managing container replicas on a node cluster using Kubernetes.  • Ability in managing all aspects of the software configuration management process including code compilation, packaging / deployment / release methodology, and application configurations.  • Experienced in full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodologies and validations to ensure QA control. Extensive experience in developing JAVA based applications using JAVA, JEE, JDBC, EJB, Servlets, JSP, JSF, JMS and Webservices.  • Extensive experience in developing Web interfaces using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, SASS, LESS, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, React.js, and BackboneJS.  • Experience in implementing Java/J2EE technologies for application development in various layers of projects i.e. requirement gathering, analysis, design, implementation, Unit testing and deployment from UAT to Prod.  • Proficient working on Java Frameworks like 2.x, Hibernate 3.x, JSF, and Spring Framework 4.x.  • Experience in developing Full stack applications using Angular-JS, Node-JS, Mongo-dB, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Java, EXT-JS, and JSF etc.  • Hands on experience in various agile methodologies like Test Driven Development (TDD), SCRUM, and Pair Programming. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience DevOps Engineer T Rowe Price - Baltimore, MD June 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for developing the build scripts to build and deploy the executables for the over 30 web-based applications that are converted from mainframe applications.  • Designed and deployed AWS solutions using EC2, S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto scaling groups.  • Enabled Logging on S3 bucket access, VPC flow, CloudTrail, AWS config, AWS inspector, Lambda, RDS, DynamoDB, CloudFront, AWS API gateway and EC2 Application servers.  • Created customized AMIs based on existing AWS EC2 instances by using Packer, hence using this snapshot for disaster recovery.  • Worked with the API gateway service component for API management, to create, configure and deploy an API.  • Managed different infrastructure resources, like physical machines, VMs and even Docker containers using Terraform. Writing templates for AWS infrastructure as a code using Terraform to build staging and production environments.  • Developed build and deployment scripts using ANT and MAVEN as build tools in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments.  • Setup Jenkins server and built jobs to provide continuous automated builds based on polling the GIT and integrated GIT with Jenkins to automate the code check out process with the help of Jenkins DSL Plugin.  • Created, tested and deployed an end-to-end CI/CD pipeline for various applications using Jenkins as the main Integration server for Dev, QA, Staging and Prod environments.  • Installed and configured Splunk to monitor applications deployed on application server, by analyzing the application and server log files. Worked on setup of various dashboards, reports and alerts in Splunk.  • Install & configure Apache Web server, Tomcat, WebLogic Application servers to meet the business user's needs and requirements.  • Created and managed a Docker deployment pipeline for custom application images in the cloud using Jenkins.  • Enabled automated continuous container deployment using Jenkins and containerizing runtime deployment platform in Kubernetes.  • Worked on Deployment Automation of all microservices to pull image from private Docker registry and deploy to Kubernetes Cluster  • Created Jenkins jobs to push infrastructure code changes to Chef Server, ensured smooth flow by including linting modules in this setup, also set up versioning of Cookbook with proper branching strategies to prevent code breaks on Chef Cookbook.  • Worked on troubleshooting both server and application level issues and logging JIRA tickets as per the requirement. Java Developer Nationwide Insurance - Columbus, OH July 2017 to June 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Design, Development and Support phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Used AGILE methodology and participated in SCRUM meetings.  • Involved with on functionality, performance and designing issues with, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript AngularJS and Typescript.  • Implemented scripting with Ajax and XML to dynamically refresh the page contents.  • Created custom Plugins, templates, and functions for AngularJS application.  • Spring Controllers were used with AngularJS to route the control to desired Java services.  • Developed Controller for request, response paradigm by Spring Controllers using Spring-MVC.  • Used JSON as response type in REST services.  • Designed and developed Restful service interface using Spring MVC to the underlying customer event API.  • Involved in building Restful Webservices using JAX-RSAPI.  • Worked on leading frameworks as React.js to build high-quality, scalable and reusable components and Front-end solution.  • Developed core Java programs for all business rules and workflows using spring framework.  • Developed a tool to retrieve and send data to third party service provider this feature was implemented using REST.  • Developed Hibernate mapping files using different mapping strategies such as table per class hierarchy and used Hibernate Persistence Strategy to interact with database.  • Built MAVEN scripts for automated deployment and for the build operation of the entire application  • Performed unit testing using JUnit and Karama Frameworks on Java and Angular. Followed Agile Scrum methodology and used TDD for writing test cases.  • Deployed the application in WebSphere Application Server 6.0.1 and Configured JMS in the WebSphere application server to send messages on the queue.  • Worked on Cloud implementation by installing, building and deploying applications using pivotal Cloud Foundry.  • Worked on Creating AWS Route 53 to route traffic between different regions.  • Created AWS Security Groups for deploying and Configuring AWS EC2 instances.  • Used Jersey API to implement Restful web service to retrieve JSON response and used Jackson library to parse JSON response.  • Implemented Ajax calls using JSF-Ajax integration and implemented cross-domain calls using jQuery Ajax methods.  • Deployed Spring Boot based micro service Docker Container using Amazon EC2 Container Services using AWS Admin Console.  • Implemented the application using the concrete design patterns such as MVC, Business Delegate, Session Facade, DTO, Singleton and Factory.  • Developed stored procedures, triggers for efficient interaction with MySQL.  • Developed test cases and performed unit testing using JUNIT.  • Built, configured and deployed applications using Maven. Java Developer CSRA - Atlanta, GA June 2014 to October 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in System Requirements study and conceptual design.  • Followed Scrum concepts of the Agile Methodology to produce high Quality Software.  • Client-Side code were written in React-JS, J-Query and Server-Side Code were developed using MVC4.  • Developed messaging module using Spring JMS, Apache Camel and ActiveMQ.  • Integrated Hibernate with spring for Handling Transactions.  • Implement the application MVC, ReactJS.  • Worked on CSS frameworks like Bootstrap and preprocessors like SASS.  • Maintaining separate build in Maven for the module for easy integration to the portal build and configure with Jenkins.  • Used Cloud-watch for monitoring AWS cloud resources and the applications that deployed on AWS by creating new alarm, enable notification service.  • Used Jenkins to build and deploy the application.  • Developed web UI screens using Spring MVC, AngularJS, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and CSS.  • Conducted gap analysis and developed data migration and integration plans.  • Developed RESTful Web Service using REST Jersey API.  • Developed Spring Services, DAO's and defined routes using Apache Camel.  • Developed applications with SQL Server.  • Developed restful web services using Jersey and spring and developed rest services usingNode.js and other node modules.  • Consumed RESTful Webservices.  • Implemented Hibernates' Lazy default fetch plans for generating proxies and collection wrappers and created fetching strategies for minimizing the number of SQL Statements.  • Involved in unit testing, integration testing, SIT and UAT phases. Performed defect tracking, bug fixing and enhancements.  • Used Hibernate annotations for mapping objects to the relational database and Implemented persistence using Hibernate, managed Hibernate.cfg.xml file.  • Used XML to transfer the application data between client and server.  • Experienced in build tools like Ant, Maven, Gradle and using them with continuous integration tools like Jenkins to create and publish application artifacts.  • Deployed the code in WebSphere Application server. Software engineer Wipro-Hyderabad September 2013 to May 2014 Responsibilities:    • Analyzed, Designed and developed the system to meet the requirements of business users.  • Participated in the design review of the application to come up with UI and provide best possible recommendations for the application from UI standpoint.  • Implemented presentation tier using HTML, CSS by utilizing the mockups that were created by design team.  • Developed screen functionality using HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  • Used AJAX for implementing part of the functionality for Customer Registration, View Customer information modules.  • Implemented interaction between frontend and backend using the JSON object.  • Wrote Cross Browser code of CSS and JavaScript for Internet Explorer and Firefox.  • Involved in developing test plan and procedures.  • Developed web pages with functionalities like login, register, forgot password, Email, Filters using JavaScript, jQuery and HTML.  • Used JavaScript to update a portion of a web page thus reducing bandwidth usage and load time in web pages to get user input and requests.  • Debugging Web Pages with firebug and fixing issues.  • Testing browser compatibility and addressing browser compatibility issues.  • Optimizing SQL queries and stored procedures. Education Master's Skills Devops, Jenkins, AWS, Linux, Puppet