AWS DevOps Engineer AWS DevOps Engineer AWS DevOps Engineer - Capital One Plano, TX • 6 years of experience in AWS DevOps experience in IT industry in various roles with excellent experience in Software Integration, Configuration, Build & Release management and Development for several markets driven international organizations.  • Experienced in all phases of the software development life-cycle (SDLC) with specific focus on the build and release of quality software. Experienced in Waterfall, Agile/Scrum, Lean and most recently Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Deployment (CD) practices.  • Hands on experience of Build & Deployment phase and usage of Continuous Integration (CI/CD) tools, build configuration, change history for releases, Maintenance of build system, automation & smoke test processes, managing, configuring, and maintaining source control management systems.  • Experience in using version control tools like GIT/GIT Hub.  • Worked on Jenkins for continuous integration and for End to End automation for all build and deployments.  • Experience in software development, including languages, and frameworks such as Python.  • Resource provisioning using Terraform and Cloud Formation.  • Worked on provisioning different environments using Chef, Puppet and Ansible Configuration management tools.  • Responsible for build and deployment automation using AWS, Docker, Kubernetes containers and Chef.  • Implemented Kubernetes to deploy scale, load balance, scale and manage docker containers with multiple name spaced versions.  • Installed and configured an automated tool Puppet that included the installation and configuration of the Puppet master, agent nodes and an admin control workstation.  • Deployment to AWS with Chef, Ansible and Terraform towards AWS, and using Terraform for building, updating, and versioning infrastructure safely and efficiently, as well as creating custom in-house solutions with Chef or Puppet configurations.  • Experience creating pods and clusters in Kubernetes and deploy those using Open Shift.  • Excellent experience in documenting and automating the build and release process.  • Experience in setting up Baselines, Branching, Merging and Automation Processes using Shell, Python and Bash Scripts.  • Expertise in Amazon Cloud Services and its features AWS EC2, VPC, EBS, AMI, snapshots, Auto scaling, Cloud Formation, Lambda, SES, SQS, SNS, RDS, ELB, EBS, Cloud Watch, S3 etc.  • Handled operations and maintenance support for AWS cloud resources which includes launching, maintaining and troubleshooting EC2 instances, and S3 buckets, Virtual Private Clouds (VPC), Elastic Load Balancers (ELB) and Relational Database Services (RDS).  • Experience in running web scale services on Amazon Web Services.  • Good experience in implementing applications with Model-View-Controller (MVC) / N-tier Architecture.  • Good knowledge of Object Oriented Programming concepts (OOPS).  • Hands on experience with Core Java with Multithreading, Concurrency, Exception Handling, File handling, IO, Generics and Java collections.  • Proficient in Java Multi-Threading, Thread lifecycle methods and multiple requests handling using synchronization.  • Strong experience in deploying applications on Websphere Server and Tomcat.  • Experience in continuous Integration tools such as Jenkins.  • Experience in Oracle database design, PL/SQL application development and back-end development using DDL, DML commands, SQL Queries, Table Partitioning, Collections, Import and Export data, Stored Procedure, Cursor, Functions and Triggers and Dynamic SQL using PL/SQL with advanced PL/SQL techniques.  • Have good knowledge on data models, database design development, data mining and segmentation techniques.  • Well Acquainted with RDBMS like MySQL, PostgreSQL and NoSQL like MongoDB and Cassandra.  • Experience in database connectivity (JDBC) for databases like Oracle, MySQL and NoSQL.  • Have delivered large-scale solutions, coordinated projects with both Onshore and Offshore teams.  • Involved in daily Scrum meetings to keep track of the ongoing project status and issues.  • Used GIT for version controlling and regularly pushed the code to GitHub and Bitbucket. Work Experience AWS DevOps Engineer Capital One - Plano, TX September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Performed S3 buckets creation, and policies on the IAM role based polices and customizing the JSON template.  • Launching Amazon EC2 Cloud Instances using Amazon Web Services (Linux/Ubuntu) and configuring launched instances with respect to specific applications.  • Manage Amazon Redshift clusters such as launching the cluster and specifying the node type.  • Used AWS Beanstalk for deploying and scaling web applications and services developed with Java.  • End to end deployment ownership for projects on AWS. This includes Python scripting for automation, scalability, builds promotions for staging to production etc.  •Developed CI/CD system with Jenkins on Google's Kubernetes container environment, utilizing kubernetes and Docker for the runtime environment for the CI/CD system to build and test and deploy.  • Hands on with Git / GitHub for code check-ins/checkouts and branching etc.    •Experience with container based deployments using Docker, working with Docker images, Docker hub and Docker registries, installation and configuring Kubernetes and clustering them.  • Implemented and maintained the monitoring and alerting of production and corporate servers/storage using AWS Cloud Watch.  • Built Continuous Integration environment using Jenkins and puppet.  • Experience AWS services (VPC, EC2, S3, RDS, Redshift, Dynamo DB, Lambda, SNS and SQS).  • Involved in designing and deploying multiple applications utilizing almost all the AWS stack (Including EC2, Route53, S3, RDS, Dynamo DB, SNS, SQS, IAM) focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto- scaling in AWS Cloud Formation.  • Excellent hands-on experience in installation, configuration and troubleshooting the issues and performance tuning of WebLogic/Apache/IIS and Tomcat.  • Written shell scripts for end to end build and deployment automation. Run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers.  • Created Docker container using Docker images to test the application even ship, and run applications.  • Leveraged AWS cloud services such as EC2, auto-scaling and VPC to build secure, highly scalable and flexible systems that handled expected and unexpected load bursts.  • Used AWS Beanstalk for deploying and scaling web applications and services developed with Java.  • Implemented Release schedules, communicated the Release status, created Roll out Plans, tracked the Project Milestones, prepared the reports and chaired the Release calls and worked for a successful Release of JIRA Application and used JIRA to track issues and Change Management.  • Responsible for designing and deploying best SCM processes and procedures.  • Understanding of developing and testing enterprise products, with current focus on cloud based application and giving solution to challenges imposed by multi data center deployed SaaS products and their needs for DevOps tools and automation.  • Experience on Software Configuration Management (SCM) in Agile and Waterfall methodologies.  • Extensive experience using MAVEN as a Build Tool for the building of deployable artifacts (war & ear) from source code.  Environment: Python, UNIX, VMware, Shell, Perl, IAM, S3, EBS, EC2, Cloud Watch, Cloud Formation, Kubernetes, Puppet, Docker, Jenkins, TOMCAT 7/8. DevOps Engineer Blue Cross Blue Shield of Arizona November 2016 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  • Creating servers, AMIs, storage blocks in S3, taking snapshots, VPCs, subnets, load balancing and auto-scaling in Assigning and implementing fully automated server build, management, monitoring and deployment solutions spanning multiple platforms, tools and technologies including Jenkins Nodes/Agents, Chef, SSH, Amazon EC2 and packaging, deployment and testing.  • Installation and configuration of Git, merging code from develop branch to master branch and make it ready for deployment.  • Pushing Code from Git to nexus make available for release through automation script using Jenkins.  • Knowledge on GIT and Jenkins Continuous Integration of Server-Installation, Configuration, Design and Administration, and integrating these tools with other systems.  • Installation and upgrade of Ops-code Chef Server and documenting steps.  • Installation and upgrade of Chef Client and Make sure servers are getting converge with chef- server.  • Creating of Organization, Environment, and users in Chef Server.  • Worked on the cloud automation framework namely CHEF, the included automation of certain software installation processes in the form of Ruby code.  • Exclusively worked on windows & Linux AMI for hardening.  • Handled cloud administration tools and management frameworks.  • Configured Cloud watch alerts.  • Implemented Kubernetes to deploy scale, load balance, scale and manage docker containers with multiple name spaced versions.  • Configured Yum at Server / client side for packet management.  • Deployed and monitored salable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS) & configuration management  • Launching and configuring of Amazon EC2 (AWS) Cloud Servers using AMI's (Linux/Ubuntu) and configuring the servers for specified applications using Jenkins  • Setup and launch Amazon Linux and RHEL and Windows ec2 instances, network interface with Elastic IP's.  • Configured and managing security groups and VPC.  • Configured and managing ELBs.  • Configured and managing S3 storage.  • Created AMI images of the critical ec2 instance as backup using AWS CLI and GUI.  • Created RDS database.  Environment: Chef, Jenkins, AWS, GIT, Ansible, Bash scripts, AWS EC2, Docker, Elastic Load Balancing, Elastic Bean Stalk, ECS, Cloud Front, Cloud Formation, Cloud Watch, Route 53, Redshift, Lambda and Dynamo DB. Java Developer State of Connecticut Lake Mary FL - Lake Mary, FL January 2015 to September 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the design and development of some critical use cases.  • Extensively used Spring, Struts, Hibernate, and RESTful based Web Services.  • Implemented the front end using HTML, CSS and JavaScript, JQuery, BootStrap, AJAX for dynamic web content.  • Worked in Agile environment; used scrum as the methodology.  • Used Core Spring framework for Dependency injection (IOC).  • Log4j were used to log various debug, error and informational messages at various levels.  • Maven was used to manage dependencies in the application.  • Used Jenkins forcontinuous integration and continuous deployment(CI/CD)on Apache Tomcat application server.  • GITwas used for source/version control.  • Used Spring Batch Framework for batch processing.  • Used Spring Validation framework to implement the server side validations and used AJAX/JSON to get the data from the server asynchronously by using JSON objects.  • Implemented presentation layer JSPs by following Tiles concept.  • Designed and developed Message driven architectures that consumed the JMS messages from the Java message queue and process the database updating and conversion.  • Designed & Developed persistence service using Hibernate framework. Used Hibernate as the ORM mapping tool and worked with Hibernate Query Language (HQL).  • Developed SQL, PL/SQL with Stored Procedures to interact with Persistent database using Oracle.  • Followed Test Driven Development (TDD) and wrote unit test cases using JUnit.  • Involved in Code Review and Quality Processes    Environment: Java/J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, JMS, RESTful Web Services, JSP, JQuery, JUnit, Spring, Oracle, Apache Tomcat, Eclipse, XML, HTML, Java Script, CSS, AJAX, log4j, Jenkins, GIT. Java Developer Aurobindo Pharma LTD, IND December 2012 to September 2014 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Developed the user interfaces using Web 2.0, AJAX, JSP, Struts, HTML, CSS, Java Script, and DHTML.  • Generalized top link mapping template for the application so that top link related code could be separated from the actual DAO implementation.  • Worked on MVC framework preferably Web Work and STRUTS 2.0 with spring dependency injection for application customization and upgrade.  • Used multiple Action Controllers to control the page flow, Interceptors for client validations  • Used Spring ORM package as an integration layer for ORM mapping API's, including Hibernate.  • Design application using new themes and custom templates and user interface by using JSP, HTML, XML, XSLT, CSS and Java Script. as per Verizon business new theme requirement.  • Used AJAX to get faster response to the user without refreshing the whole page, to develop and customize the dynamic web pages.  • Developed APIs using PL/SQL to interact with the oracle database.  • A generalized component according spring framework to retrieve appropriate service for the required functionality.  • Developed XML Schema, DOM, XSLT code for XML documents, used for data transfer between front-end and middleware layers.  • Used XML Processing (JAXP) enables applications to parse, transform, validate and query XML documents.  • Generated Web services implementation classes using WebLogic client gen to connect to VZ Wireless and CMC to utilize their services and used SOAP UI tool to monitor the same.  • Used WS-Security concepts for implementing secured web services to restrict only for prescribed users to secure customer information.  • Implemented the integration of STRUTS and SPRING IOC and injected spring beans to struts action classes.  • Developed Email Templates and Email Notification functionality using HTML, DHTML and XHTML as per business requirement.    Environment: J2EE, MVC, Struts 1.3, Java, JSP, Servlets, Hibernate, JSTL, JUnit, XML, HTML JavaScript, DB2, Informix, CVS, UNIX, Windows XP, UML, Eclipse 3.0, Web logic 8.0 Application Server. Education Master's Skills Git, Php, Ruby, Scripting, Xml, Devops, Puppet, Linux, AWS, Jenkins Additional Information Technical Skills:    ProgrammingLanguages /Technologies Java, Pyton, Ruby, MVC SQL, PL/SQL, Unix Scripting, ,XML,Shell Scripting, PHP, jQuery, AJAX, Web APIs  FRAMEWORKS Spring Framework (Spring IOC, Spring Boot),  XML/WEB SERVICES JAX-WS, Apache CXF, Restful, Jersey, Spring Rest  APPLICATION/WEB SERVERS Oracle ,Apache Tomcat  APPLICATION IDE(S) Eclipse, IntelliJ  DATABASES Oracle 11i, Mongo DB, Cassandra, My SQL, DB2  CLOUD  AWS Cloud Services EC2, AMI, Lambda, S3, Glacier, RDS, DynamoDB, CloudFormation, VPC, CloudFront, CloudWatch, CloudTrail, IAM, SQS, SNS etc.    FTP/SFTP FileZilla, WinSCP, Putty  VERSION CONTROL GIT, Tortoise GIT  OPERATING SYSTEMS WINDOWS, LINUX, MAC  OTHER TOOLS ANT, Maven, Junit, Mockito, Log4j, TOAD, Jira