Architect/Lead Consultant Architect/Lead Consultant Architect/Lead Consultant - Brother International Corporation New jersey • 9+ years of IT experience in analysis, design, development, documentation, implementing and testing of software systems in Java, JavaScript, Swift, IOS, Android, J2EE and other Internet technologies.  • Strong Knowledge on Application Development using Software Development Life Cycle SDLC using various methodologies like Waterfall, Agile/Scrum.  • Excellent in front-end UI design implementations by writing HTML5/HTML, CSS3/CSS, Bootstrap, AngularJS/ Angular 4, JavaScript, jQuery, jQuery UI, jQuery Mobile to make better Single Page Application SPA working on Node.JS Server.  • Extensive experience in AngularJS for application implementation, proficient in creating modules, controllers, routeProviders, factory services, ng-repeat, customizable filter, http get/post methods and directives to realize functionalities like REST service with Ajax call, input validations, searchable and sortable contents.  • Complete Exposure with MEAN (MongoDB, Express, AngularJS) full stack programming  • Hands on experience in writing light weight Node.js express server, and using technologies like Ajax, JavaScript/jQuery, JSON to make connections between server and databases like MongoDB and MySQL.  • Expertise in working with various J2EE technologies including Hibernate, Struts MVC Framework, Servlets, JSP, JNDI, JMS, JDBC, AJAX, WEB SERVICES and ANT.  • Strong experience in Spring Framework such as Spring MVC, IOC, AOP and Spring JDBC.  • Strong hands-on experience with Spring IO, Spring Boot with Thymeleaf, Angular 4, JavaScript.  • Experience in implementing Java EE design patterns such as MVC, Singleton, Session Facade, DAO, DTO, and Business Delegate in the development of Multi-Tier distributed Enterprise Applications.  • Good experience in developing Web Services SOAP, JAX-WS, WSDL  • Experience in core Java-Multithreading, collections, Servlets and JDBC.  • Experience in Configuring and deploying applications on Tomcat 5.5/6.0/7.0 server.  • Sound RDBMS concepts and broadly worked with MS SQL Server 2005/2000, Oracle 10g, MySQL 5.0 and PostgreSQL 8.0/9.1.  • Good experience with Cassandra NoSQL Database.  • Cassandra implementation using Datastax Java API, Hector API, CQL and Kundera API. Work Experience Architect/Lead Consultant Brother International Corporation 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for the full stack (front end development, application logic, services, data persistence), Alexa Development, Mobile Development and various Web Applications on AWS Server  • Participated in Agile Development Team and having daily SCRUM meeting for progress reporting as well as task distributing.  • Created the Node.js EXPRESS Server combined with Socket.io to build MVC framework from front-end side AngularJS to back-end MongoDB, in order to provide broadcast service as well as chatting service.  • Involved in Core Java coding by using Java APIs such as Collections, Multithreading, Exception Handling, Generics, Enumeration, and Java I/O to fulfill the implementation of business logic.  • Configured the xml files for Open Source Spring 3 Framework to fulfill the Proxy Pattern.  • Configured the xml files for Hibernate 3 and applied its Object Relational Mapping ORM to enable the data transactions between POJO and Oracle Database using caching on SessionFactory as well as caching on query.  • Configured the xml files for Spring Security injection to ensure the back-end security by discriminating the role of users as well as access authority for the URIs and Server-side assets.  • Configured the xml files for Java Mail technology in User Account Activation Service and Password Reset Service.  • Configured the web.xml file for REST server injection to enable the REST web services by using JAXB API.  • Responsible for designing the User Interface by coding in HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, Bootstrap to build this SPA Single Page Application ..  • Customized CSS files by adding new CSS3 features like media queries to ensure fluid/ responsive design for our web pages.  • Extensively involved in coding with AngularJS, jQuery UI and jQuery Mobile to add functionalities and effects like Accordion, Infinite Scroll bar, Slider bar, Draggle/Droppable, Resizable, Progress bar.  • Developed front-end code with Ajax call in AngularJS and jQuery to retrieve data as JSON Object from controllers in back-end RESTful Server, then display the well-organized result in web pages by writing AngularJS controller, directives, services, and route providers. Also used Angular.js filter to make the data searchable and sortable.  • Involved in defensive coding against SQL injection, XSS, Phishing by adding extensive validation code for all user inputs by writing JavaScript Regex Regular Expression for email validation and credit card number validation, jQuery code combined with AngularJS ng-pristine/dirty for input validations.  • Developed JavaScript code to feed data-tables of Google Charts API with data, then draw charts with animation effect.  • Involved in Test Driven Development by writing JUnit test case in the coding part of Java methods like mortgage calculating.  • Designed and created UML model artifacts using Sparx.  • Implemented service layer using Spring IOC and annotations and Controllers using Spring MVC.  • Implemented DAOs, entities using Hibernate API and Hibernate QL.  • All the functionality is implemented using Spring IO / Spring Boot, Thymeleaf and Hibernate ORM. Implemented Java EE components using Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring transactions and Spring security modules.  • Implemented all the components following test-driven development methodology using JUnit.  • Used SVN as version control system.  • Created build and deployment scripts using Maven.  • Developed the Sign up and Login flow for Stores.  • Implemented the product listing and management functionality, using which stores can add new products and update and delete the listed products.  • Implemented web crawling of store demographics, products, brands and categories using Python and Scrapy WebCrawler.  • Implemented geocoding functionality to create the co-ordinates for each store location using Google Geocoding API and indexed them in Elasticsearch for location-based searching.  • Worked with NoSQL Cassandra to store, retrieve, and update and manage all the details for Ethernet provisioning and customer order tracking.  • All the functionalities are implemented using Datastax Java API, Hector and Kundera API.  • Ran ad-hoc queries against Cassandra using CQL scripts.  • Performed bulk data loading into Cassandra using SSTableLoader.  • Performed data integration with sourcing systems using JMS.  • Implemented service layer on top of Cassandra using core Java, Datastax Java API and Restful API.  • Very good understanding Cassandra cluster mechanism that includes replication strategies, snitch, gossip, consistent hashing and consistency levels.  • Developed critical components of the application including Spring forms, Spring controllers, JSP views, and business logic and data logic components that include Hibernate Entities, Spring-Hibernate DAO and Spring models following MVC architecture.  • Involved in implementation of matching functionality between account and offers and also the functionality to manage customer communication and channel preferences using Spring and Hibernate.  • Used Hibernate persistence framework on the backend against Oracle database for billing details PDF generation flow.  Environment: Java 1.6/1.7, Java EE, Node.JS, JavaScript, jQuery, jQuery UI, jQuery Mobile, Angular.JS, Ajax, Bootstrap, SpringIO, Spring boot 1.2.3 with Thymeleaf 2.1.4, Spring MVC 4.1.5, Hibernate ORM 4.3.5, Cassandra 1.2.5, Cassandra 2.0.6, CQL, Datastax Java API, Hector, Kundera, NodeTool, SSTableLoader,Agile/Scrum, MySQL 5.5, HTML5, jQuery, Python 3.4.2, Apache Tomcat 8.0, Linux, Maven 4.0, SVN 1.7, Log4j2. Sr. Software Developer Brother Argentina 2012 to 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Software Development Life Cycle SDLC. Gathering business logic and requirements, then figure out technical solutions for better implementation.  • Build REST web service by building Node.js Server in the back-end to handle requests sent from the front-end jQuery Ajax calls.  • Developed server-side logic using Struts 2, Hibernate 3, and JPA by writing configurations.  • Extensively involved in coding with core Java concepts like Collections, Exception Handling, Java I/O, and Generics to implement some business logic.  • Wrote Hibernate 3 configuration files to enable the data transactions between POJO and Oracle Database.  • Built DAO package as well as DAO IMPL package to implement the data access logic and using Hibernate Annotation to do the data mapping.  • Wrote corresponding service to handle the request from front-end pages like transfer funds and view transaction history.  • Extensively involved in writing PL/SQL or HQL to implement CRUD Create Retrieve Update Delete data in Oracle Database.  • Implemented the Graphic User Interface GUI by coding in HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, and jQuery UI.  • Extensively involved in writing JavaScript/ jQuery Ajax call to retrieve the data from the back-end then display on the screen in a well-organized way.  • Wrote JUnit test case for back-end logic implementation development.  • Wrote QUnit test code for JavaScript test case for front-end tests.  • Provide Log4J for QA and communicated with QA for further modification.  • Modified the web.xml and inject Spring Security to ensure back-end security.  • Enhanced the doPost method in servlet to prevent multiple submissions.  • Used Subversion SVN for version control, and JIRA for tracking bugs.  • Configured and set up JBoss 4.0 Server for deployment.  Environment: JDK 1.6, J2EE, Hibernate 3.2, Hibernate Annotation, Oracle 10g, Spring Security, JSP, JUnit, JSTL, JPA, Servlet, Java Mail, HTML5/HTML, CSS3/CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular.JS, Ajax, Bootstrap, JSON, XML, JBoss, log4J, Subversion SVN , JIRA, SCRUM, Eclipse Java Developer Staples 2010 to 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in elaboration, construction phases and deployments of EAR files in the RUP process.  • Designed and Created Domain model and schema using object oriented design / UML diagrams Built SOAP Webservices.  • Created User Interface screens using HTML, DHTML, AJAX, CSS, Java script.  • Developed Action classes, ActionForms and Struts Configuration file to handle required UI actions, JSPs for Views.  • Developed server side presentation layer using Struts MVC2 Framework.  • Used various design patterns like Business delegate, Singleton, Factory, DAO, DTO, Service locator etc.  • Performed Inheritance based OR mappings in tables to simplify the data in Hibernate.  • Used MySQL database for SQL, PL/SQL scripts, stored procedures, functions, triggers.  • Deployed web services for updating the information to the workflow steps and getting the pre-configured workflow processes and invoked with RMI.  • Unit tested all the classes using JUNIT at various class level and methods level.  • Worked on Installing and configured Tomcat Server.  • Made use of CVS for checkout and check in operations.  Environment: Java 1.5, Eclipse, Struts 2.0, Hibernate 2.0, JSP 2.0, SOAP Web services, HTML, XML, XSL/XSLT, JavaScript, JavaBeans, AJAX, MySQL 5.0, Tomcat 5.5, slf4. Java Developer DesIDEA Corporation 2009 to 2010 Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle SDLC  • Developed Action classes, ActionForms and Struts Configuration file to handle required UI actions, JSPs for Views.  • Used JavaScript for Client Side validation in JSP pages.  • Integration of Payment Gateway using SOAP WS for Auto Payment flow.  • Conducting Quality check, analyze and fix performance issues.  • Worked on Installing and configured Tomcat Server.  • Release Maintenance Preparation and Deployment on the servers  • Fixing deployment issues with restructured code and migrated builds.  • Made use of SVN for checkout and check in operations.  Environment: J2EE Core Java, XML, JDBC, JSP and Servlets , JavaScript ExtJS, Mootools , MVC Architecture Struts 2.0 , Hibernate 3.0, Log4J, PostgreSQL 8.3, Tomcat and LINUX Education Master of Science in Computer Science Engineering Rutgers Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science Engineering Osmania University Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring