Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - Charter Communications, Inc Chesapeake, VA • 7+ years of experience as a JAVA/J2EE developer in Designing, Developing and Deploying Web Based Client-Server business applications.  • Experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) Planning, Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance of Client-Server and N-tier Architectures.  • Good knowledge of Core JAVA concepts including Multithreading, Polymorphism, Inheritance, Exception Handling, Collections, File I/O Stream etc. and Object-Oriented Programming Concepts.  • Good experience in Web Application Designing and Developing User Interactive and Responsive Web Design using HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, BOOTSTRAP, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, Angular JS, Node JS, AJAX, J2EE, JavaBeans, XML and SQL.  • Extensive experience of designing and developing software applications with the EJB, JSP, Servlets, Java Beans, JNDI, AJAX, JMS, ORM, Web services, JDBC, Hibernate, Struts, Spring Core, Spring Boot, RMI, XML, JavaScript, JQuery, Web Services, SOAP, JSON.  • Good knowledge on JavaScript libraries which include Angular JS, React JS and Node JS.  • Excellent understanding of Agile, Waterfall and Spiral Software Methodologies.  • Strong experienced in a quick paced Agile Development Environment including Test-Driven Development (TDD) and Scrum.  • Designed, built and deployed applications using Amazon web services (AWS) focusing on high-availability and fault tolerance.  • Integrating Jenkins with AWS to automate Services.  • Highly experienced with developing multi-tier Enterprise Applications using Eclipse, My Eclipse and NetBeans.  • Exposure to Docker to build distributed applications.  • Experience in SQL by writing queries for Create, Insert, Update and Modification (CRUD) operations using Oracle, MySQL, DB2 and SQL Server and performed Optimization and Normalization using database tools.  • Experience in RDMS using MYSQL, Oracle and SQL Server.  • Knowledge in PL/SQL for writing Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers and Complex Queries.  • Hands on experience in Hibernate and designed HQL (Hibernate Query Language) to Create and Modify database.  • Developed backend web services using Node JS.  • Worked with several teams to transition workflows to Continuous Integration and Delivery model and implemented best practices for utilizing AWS.  • Experience in Service Oriented Architecture SOAP and Restful Web services.  • Have good knowledge in MVC architecture.  • Well acquainted with Workflows and Unified Modeling Language (UML) diagrams including Use Cases, Activity Charts, Sequence Diagrams, Data Flow Diagrams and ER Diagrams.  • Possess worthy knowledge of Entity Relationship Diagrams (ER Diagram) using MS Visio.  • Experience with Building tools like ANT & Maven.  • Worked with version control repositories including SVN, CVS and Git.  • Experience in working with Junit for Unit testing and Integration testing.  • Experienced in the deployment of the war files using Jenkins, Maven, Glassfish and Apache Tomcat deploying tools.  • Used various web Servers such as Apache Tomcat, IBM WebSphere and Glassfish developing server-side applications.  • Exposure to Linux Commands.  • Excellent Analytical, Problem Solving and Organizational Skills. Also, Self-Motivated with strong verbal and written Communicational Skills.  • Good exposure in interacting with clients and solving application environment issues and can communicate effectively with people at different levels including stakeholder's internal teams and the senior management. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer Charter Communications, Inc - St. Louis, MO December 2017 to Present Description: Working in the development of an enterprise web application that helps the organization in accepting and processing the payments in the form of electronic checks and provide the option for automatic enrolling in the payment plan.    Responsibilities:  • Following Agile-Scrum methodology and used to involve in stand-up meetings to monitor the progress on daily basis.  • Involved in the analysis, design and development phases of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) and Test-Driven Development (TDD).  • Participated in designing UML diagrams using MS Visio.  • Designing User Interfaces (UI) with the help of JSP, HTML, CSS, Angular JS and jQuery.  • Worked on developing single page application using Angular JS and React JS.  • Responsible for code update into SVN and support for automated builds successful.  • Developing n-tier Java Applications using J2EE Technologies, Java and familiar with Multi-threading.  • Designing and development of Restful APIs using AngularJS and JSON.  • Working with Oracle SQL developer to Create / modify SQL Queries whenever required for change requests and created Stored Procedures to get quick and efficient results.  • Working on SQL Developer to store data and perform CRUD operation on Complex Objects.  • Using PL/SQL for creating the tables, triggers and select statements using Oracle database.  • Designed and developed Restful APIs on AWS using Spring Boot for different modules in the project as per the requirement and still working with the other modules.  • Maintaining and expanding AWS (cloud services) infrastructure using AWS stack.  • Implemented Micro Services based Cloud Architecture on AWS Platform and Cloud Foundry.  • Implementing Spring MVC Controller module for better handling of client request, consume Restful data service and sending response to the client.  • Responsible for creating DAOs and implementations required by the core processes and as well as UI.  • Worked in React JS framework to develop SPA and expertise in creating Custom Reusable React Components Library.  • Working in GUI validation using JavaScript coding and also working on spring framework.  • Following the techniques and principles provided by Test Driven Development (TDD) paradigm for developing quality code with continuous integration.  • Using Eclipse for the project development.  • Applications are deployed in the WebSphere Server.  • Used Maven for loading the dependencies and downloading the jars to the repository.  • Dependency Injection feature of Spring MVC framework and ORM mapping tool Hibernate are using for rapid development and ease of maintenance.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JDK, JDBC, Spring, JSP, Servlets, HTML, CSS, Angular JS, React JS, JQuery, Servlets, Junit, IBM WebSphere, Oracle Database, Eclipse, Agile, TDD, Maven, REST, Micro-services and AWS. Java/J2EE Developer Whirlpool Corporations - Benton Harbor, MI August 2016 to December 2017 Description: - Service Enablement project for Whirlpool was to provide the strategies for implementation of micro services to provide consistent and secure information to the customers. Micro services strategy enables to streamline the services and to bring them on a cloud-based platform for high availability and increased agility.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in meetings with clients, management and project team during different SDLC stages like Requirement gathering, High level Design and Implementation, Functional Testing, and Deployment of Application on Servers.  • Designed User Interface (UI) using JSP, HTML, JQUERY, JavaScript and AJAX calls to get the required data and to provide data to the users.  • Used AJAX to support dynamic page element rendering to enhance user experience.  • Project was developed using Eclipse IDE.  • Worked on setting up Angular JS framework for UI development.  • Used Oracle database and wrote queries for create, insert, update and delete operations and used stored procedures for Data Manipulation.  • Worked with Database Normalization.  • Wrote service methods and SQL queries, PL/SQL to interact with the Oracle DBMS.  • Developed Maven Scripts for the build process and deployed in IBM WebSphere and Apache Tomcat.  • Used TDD approach for class creations.  • Used Jenkins as CI tool.  • Performed server migration using cloud services like AWS from physical to cloud environment.  • Worked with servlets and established JDBC connectivity to the database.  • Used Spring JDBC and Spring Hibernate to manage Data Access with DAO design.  • Involved in writing the code using Multi-threading and extensively used Collections during the development.  • Deployed the applications on IBM Web Sphere Application Server (WAS).  • Carried out bug fixing by rigorous testing using JUnit test cases.  • Took initiative to fasten the project's progress.  • Researched and resolved issues regarding the integrity of data flow.  • Created System and User Acceptance Test cases, scenarios and ensured client satisfaction on product delivery.  • Implemented the project in Agile-Scrum methodology and involved in stand-up meetings to monitor the progress.  • Used Git repository for software configuration management and version control.  • Participated in the Production support issues, to deploy and maintain the application successfully.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JDK, JDBC, Spring, JSP, Servlets, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, AJAX, AWS, Servlets, Junit, Jenkins, Git, Apache Tomcat Server, IBM WebSphere, Oracle Database, Eclipse, Agile. Java Developer Walgreens - Chicago, IL January 2015 to August 2016 Description: - The project modules included, configure, pricing, shipping, delivery, inventory, catalog process etc. This application is used by internal agents who are partners with Walgreens. Worked in the design, development and maintenance of the module. Portal also covers the PLM process of any manufacturing products done by their client company.    Responsibilities:  • Handled Analysis, Design and Development of the project.  • Involved in all stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including proposal, process engineering, requirement gathering, analysis, design, development, testing, deployment and support.  • The functionalities were implemented using Spring IO/Spring Boot and Hibernate.  • Implemented J2EE components using Spring MVC, Spring IOC and spring transactions and springs security modules.  • Developed Webpages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Client side data validations were done using JavaScript.  • Used Hibernate to establish database connectivity.  • Created HQL queries to perform create, insert and modify operations in the database.  • Integrated spring with Hibernate using various spring modules.  • Coded Rest API for product service using Spring Boot.  • Implemented Spring Boot Micro services to perform modular functionality as per Micro services architecture.  • Used Spring ORM component for Hibernate support to maintain data for Oracle Database.  • Used Spring Boot and developed the application as Micro services.  • User Apache Tomcat application server for deploying the war file.  • Used dependency injection features of Spring MVC framework and ORM mapping tool Hibernate for rapid development and ease of maintenance.  • Responsible for the overall layout design that meet cress device compatibility using Bootstrap, color scheme of the website using HTML5 and CSS3.  • Expertise in AngularJS Framework to design layouts in developing an application.  • Developed, tested, debugged and deployed the application in Apache Tomcat Server.  • Worked with QA team in Integration testing and User Acceptance testing.  • Used Web Services for creating rate summary and used WSDL and SOAP messages and used XML parsers for data retrieval. Also Developed and consumed REST base web services.  • Used shell scripts to maintain production and test AWS EC2 instances.  • Developed unit and integrated test cases for existing Micro Services.  • Worked in an Agile team and involved in stand-up meetings.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Hibernate, JSP, Servlets, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, Spring, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Micro Services, Apache Tomcat Server, Oracle Database, Eclipse, Agile methodology. Software Developer Tata Consultancy Services (Northwestern Mutual) - IN July 2013 to December 2014 Description: - Worked in a team to design and develop Personal Policy Tool which deals with some personal insurance policy plans to be used by the financial representatives.  The tool was developed to provide the policy details with the client and also to get the client details, to enroll into the policies.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) starting from Requirement Gathering, Design, Development, Testing, Maintenance and Product Delivery.  • Organized multiple requirement discussion meetings with Business Users and Source system experts and formed functional and technical specs.  • Developed UML Diagrams including ER Diagram, Data Flow Diagram etc. using MS Visio.  • Built frontend application for clients to enroll and navigate through the health plans.  • Developed responsive User Interface using JSP, HTML, CSS and Bootstrap.  • Used JavaScript and JQuery for Client side validations.  • Developed a scalable and maintainable application using J2EE Framework, Hibernate, MVC Model and J2EE Design Patterns.  • Deployed and developed the whole application on the Glassfish Server.  • Project was developed using NetBeans IDE with SQL Server database as the backend to store and manage data.  • Development was done by using Waterfall methodology.  • Database connectivity established using Hibernate and designed HQL (Hibernate Query Language) to create, update and modify data and tables.  • Worked with ETL and BI teams to finalize the data model and requirements.  • Developed various test cases and performed unit testing using Junit.  • Worked with QA team in System Integration Testing and User Acceptance Testing.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Hibernate, JSP, Servlets, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, Junit, Glassfish Server, SQL Server, NetBeans, Waterfall methodology. Associate Software Engineer ICM Solutions Pvt. Ltd August 2012 to July 2013 Description: The integrate HRMS system consolidates the records of the current, former and retired employees to provide accurate and consistent information, by providing a single source of access for the same kind of data. This project consists of four primary modules: Core Human Resource management, Payroll management, Time and Attendance Management and Talent Management.    Responsibilities:  • Designed UML, Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams and Sequence diagrams using Visual Basic.  • Involved in developing the view of client side by JSP, HTML and CSS.  • Used JavaScript for the client side data validations.  • Handled JDBC Connectivity to the SQL database using Hibernate.  • Extensively used Hibernate in Data Access Object (DAO) persistence layer to access and update information in the database.  • Created SOAP based Web services to handle Payment Module.  • Used CVS for version control and Junit for executing Unit Test Cases.  • Project development was done using Waterfall Methodology.  • Deployed the war file in Apache Tomcat Server.    Environment: Java, J2EE, UML, Eclipse, Apache Tomcat, Hibernate, SQL Server, XML, JSP, SOAP, Junit, CSS, HTML and CVS. Education Bachelors in Computer Science in Computer Science Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham University Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, React, Jquery, Angular, Javascript, Node