Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - State of NC Raleigh, NC • Over 8 years of IT experience in the areas of Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of web based and client server multi-tier applications using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Expert in developing Multi-tier enterprise level web applications using various Java, J2EE technologies including JSP, Servlets, EJB, JDBC, Java Beans, Web Services.  • Extensive experience in working with frameworks - Struts, Spring 4.0/3.0, JSF, Hibernate and MVC.  • Good Knowledge of using HTML5/DHTML, XHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, XML, XSL, XSLT, CSS3, Applets/Swings.  • Experience with JavaScript frameworks like Angular 2, Backbone JS, Node JS and Ember JS.  • Expertise in producing and consuming SOAP as well as REST web services using WSDL, SOAP, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, Apache Axis, Apache CXF, JERSEY.  • Expert in Spring framework including configuring Spring Application Context with Dependency Injection, Spring IOC (Inversion of Control), Spring AOP (Aspect-oriented Programming), Spring MVC, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring JPA and Spring Batch.  • Expertise in Implementing Java&J2EE design patterns like MVC, Session Facade, Data Access Object (DAO), VO, DTO, Factory, Singleton and Front Controller.  • Extensively used building tool like ANT, Maven to compile, package and deploy the components to the Application Servers.  • Experience with multiple client-side frameworks and libraries such as Backbone.js, Marionette.js, Ember.js, Angular.js, React, Handlebars, jQuery, Jasmine and so on  • Strong experience in XML related technologies including XSD, DTD, XSLT, XPATH, DOM, SAX, JAXP, JAXB, XML-RPC and XML Beans.  • Experience of using IDE Tools like Eclipse, NetBeans, J-Builder, Rational Application Developer (RAD) for Java/J2EE application development.  • Strong knowledge and good experience in providing logging support using Log4j.  • Proficient in handling & administering Web servers/application servers IBM Web Sphere 6.x/5.x, Apache Tomcat 5.x/6.x, JBOSS 5.x/4.x  • Experience Developing application using Groovy Grails, GSP, GORM and Grails Plug-ins and Grails Rest Services.  • Experience in AWS Cloud platform and its features, which includes EC2, EBS Cloud watch, AWS configuration, Auto-scaling and AWS S3.  • Good experience in Amazon Web Services (AWS) environment and good knowledge of AWS services like Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2), Elastic Container Service, Simple Storage (S3), Elastic Beanstalk and Cloud Watch.  • Experienced in using Kafka for streaming of data.  • Experienced in integrating ECM systems with pension and other third-party application.  • Strong experience in database design using PL/SQL to write tables, Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Indexers and proficiency in writing complex queries, using Oracle, IBMDB2, SQL Server, MySQL and MongoDB/NoSQL.  • Developed a MEAN Stack Application Using Mango DB, Express JS, Angular JS and Node JS.  • Experienced in implementation of JMS to exchange information over reliable channel in an asynchronous way by using Active MQ, Rabbit MQ as a message queue.  • Experience in writing Unit test cases using Groovy and Java.  • Experience on version control tools like GitHub, Subversion (SVN) and CVS.  • Good understanding on JIRA and Confluence.  • Motivated and result oriented team player with the ability to work under minimal supervision Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java Developer State of NC - Raleigh, NC September 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involve in gathering, analyzing and documenting business requirements, functional requirements and data Specifications for application development.  • Provide recommendations to management concerning issues of programmer productivity and software development management.  • Develop core Java programs for all business rules and workflows using spring framework.  • Re-factor existing code structure to separate core business logic and Data Access Objects (DAOs).  • Implement Hibernate for data persistence and management.  • Analyze and fix issues related to REST Web services and Application responses.  • Write database queries and programs for data insertion, updates and views.  • Design and develop the presentation layer using JSPs, JQuery and JavaScript.  • Involve in design, configuration, development and bug-fixes.  • Built ANT scripts for automated deployment and for the build operation of the entire application.  • Involved in the Development of Spring Framework Controllers. Developed Controller for request, response paradigm by Spring Controllers using Spring-MVC  • Developed Spring boot application.  • Exposure to implementing RESTful-AngularJS driven interface and consuming JSON based RESTful APIs.  • Implemented Multi-Threading and Asynchronous WEB API calls to improve the performance of the application.  • Applied fix pack version 7.0.1.6 for WebSphere MQ on UNIX platforms.  • Experience in describing data using XML (DTD, Schema) and working with XML management technologies like XSL, XSD, XSLT and Web Services using protocols such as SOAP and WSDL.  • Expertise in Cutting Edge Technologies like EJB, JPA, JMS and WebSphere MQ Series with good experience in Developing and Deploying Enterprise Java Beans (EJB) on Application Servers like WebLogic, WebSphere and JBoss.  • Build and deployed scripts using Maven on UNIX environment.  • Creating S3 buckets and managing policies for S3 buckets and utilized S3 bucket and Glacier for storage and backup on AWS.  • Created EC2 instances using cloud formation Templates on AWS  • Created unit test cases and mocked complex classes using JUnit, Mockito, and Power Mock.  • Responsible for client-side frameworks and libraries such as Backbone.js, Marionette.js,  • Contracted to create XSLT programs/templates, designed and built XML schemas for IT infrastructure.  • Configured various interceptors for transaction management, security, Audit logging (database) and logging using Spring AOP  • Used ANT scripts for automated deployment  • Used RESTFUL client to interact with the services by providing the RESTFUL URL mapping  • Exported web services using JAX-WS Spring support. Extensive experience in production support.  • Implemented external customer page using Spring MVC pattern and IOC.  • Integrated Hibernate with Spring by coding a Spring Configuration file.  • Enhanced database application for better data recovery connecting to Q/dB database.  • Worked in a core engineering team to build highly available CI/CD pipeline to build and deploy transcoding application on AWS public cloud.  • JIRA tool was used for bug tracking.  • Conduct functional and performance testing.  • Respond promptly and professionally to bug reports.    Environment: Java 1.6, Spring Framework 4.0, Hibernate, XSLT, Bacjbone.js, Oracle 10g, JPA, Web Services, REST, WSDL, XML, Spring boot, JAXB, J Unit, Spring Boot, WebSphere, Mockito, Power Mock, WebSphere Server 7.0, DB Visualize, Cross Browser Testing, AWS, Logging, Ant. Sr. Java Developer Visa Inc - Foster City, CA March 2015 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering, analyzing and documenting business requirements, functional requirements and data Specifications for application development.  • Build with J2EE, Apache Tomcat 8.0, WebLogic 10, Maven 3.0, Spring Wicket, Junit, Oracle 12c, Spring 4.0, RESTFUL web services, JSON, Selenium and Cucumber  • Development of a well responsive SPA (single page application) using AngularJS framework in conjunction with HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, standards with front-end UI team.  • Develop core Java programs for all business rules and workflows using Spring framework.  • Used features of Spring framework and O/R mapping tool Hibernate for rapid development and ease of maintenance.  • Implemented the back-end services using Spring Boot.  • Developed REST based services using Spring REST API and Apache CXF.  • Involved in the development and management of the Maven project files.  • Implemented various pages in the application using AngularJS MVC framework and lodash JavaScript utility library.  • Used React JS that can fix any problems and there's no waiting for the next release of the entire framework, you simply throw up an issue.  • Working experience on React.js and NodeJs to support the underlying data changes in a rapid way.  • Successfully did set up a no authentication Kafka listener in parallel with Kerberos (SASL) Listener. Also tested non-authenticated user (Anonymous user) in parallel with Kerberos user.  • Implemented Unit testing for API using Mockito.  • Efficiently handled periodic exporting of SQL data into Elasticsearch.  • Developing Web Application in Groovy/Grails with Mongo DB as a data store. Using the IntelliJ Idea 15.0.4 IDE with the latest Grails 3.1.1 SDK, Java 8.  • Experienced ECM proof of concept environment, involving SQL, Web Sphere Application Server  8.5, IBM Content Engine and Workplace XT.  • Parsing various format of files like XML, JSON format files and load into Oracle database with Python XML and JSON modules  • Implemented and enhanced CRUD operations for the applications using the MVC (Model View Controller) architecture of Rails framework and Ruby conducting code reviews.  • Experience building Microservices for the delivery of software products across the enterprise  • Created and maintained several Micro Services serving various functions in the cloud-service layer as well as the web layer.  • Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins and GitHub and AWS AMI's.  • Built Lambda functions to save data snapshots into AWS S3 buckets using Node JS.  • Built backend REST API with Node JS, Express JS.  • Used the Atlassian products JIRA, Confluence and Bamboo in the business process.  • Followed Agile engineering approach using SCRUM, XP and Test to Design.  • Responsible for maintaining and expanding AWS (Cloud Services) infrastructure using AWS Stack especially worked with database setup and maintenance on AWS EC2.  • Checked the health and utilization of AWS resources using AWS Cloud Watch.  • Design and develop the presentation layer using JSPs, jQuery and Ext-JS using Sencha Architect.  • Upgrade of existing application platforms to latest versions of Oracle WebLogic 12.1.3, SOA 12.1.3    Environment: Java 1.8, Spring Framework 4.0, Hibernate, Web logic, Oracle 11g, HTML5, CSS3, lodash, React JS, NodeJs, JavaScript, Web Services, Spring Boot, REST, XML, Groovy, ECM, Elasticsearch, Mockito, SOA, Kafka, WebLogic Server 12c, Python, AWS, Ext-JS 4.2.x, Sencha Architect 3, Docker, Jenkin, GitHub, Microservices. Sr. Java Developer USAC's - Washington, DC October 2013 to March 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering business requirements, analyzing the project and created UML diagrams such as Use Cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and flowcharts for the Optimization module using Microsoft Visio and UML.  • Developed the application using Java/J2EE standards and guidelines.  • Developed the UI Screens using JSP, JavaScript and HTML and did the client-side validation with the JavaScript.  • Used Spring MVC (Model View Controller) to handle/intercept the user requests and used various controllers to delegate the request flow to the Backend tier of the application.  • Extensively used Hibernate 3.0 in data access layer to access and update information in the database  • Created RESTful web services in pushing data to downstream systems  • Used Hibernate in order to deal with large databases the organization has  • Implemented data access tier using Spring DAO.  • Used Spring IOC (Inversion of Control) to remove the object dependencies across the application.  • Used ANT scripts to build the application and deployed on WebLogic Application Server  • Integrated process into build system which auto-generates REST API documentation from source code  • Developed all the User Interfaces using JSP and spring MVC  • Implemented Data Access Layer Using Hibernate.  • Implemented Singleton, MVC, Front Controller, Intercepting Filter, Data Transfer Objects and Data Access Objects design patterns.  • Created war files & deployed on Tomcat using ANT deployment tool  • Creation of REST Web Services for the management of data using Apache CXF  • Followed Spring MVC Framework for the development of the project  • Involved in writing PL/SQL stored procedures using PL/SQL Developer.  • Tested, debugged and implemented the application using JUnit for unit testing.  • Created ANT archetypes for generating fully functional RESTful web services supporting both XML and JSON message transformation  • Used log4j for tracking errors and debugging the code.  • Developed a fully functional prototype application using JavaScript and Bootstrap, connecting to a RESTful server on a different domain  • Conducted code reviews against coding standards and made sure the best practices are maintained in development process    Environment: Java/ Java EE 5, Eclipse 3.5, BEA Web Logic 10.X, Spring 3.x, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, JSP, JavaScript, HTML, JSTL, Hibernate 3.X, XML, ANT, UML, Log4j, Oracle 10g, REST, Web Services, Microsoft Visio, Windows XP, JUnit 3, PL/SQL Developer Sr. Java J2EE Developer Citi Group, New Jersey April 2012 to September 2013 Responsibilities:  • Interacting with the application users coordinating on application requirements and providing software solution.  • Extensive experience working in an Agile development environment.  • Worked on SOA architecture along with Mule to integrate the different applications for reliable and effective data exchange.  • Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection.  • Developed server-side services using Spring Web Services (SOAP, WSDL)  • Enhancing the framework to improve the performance and to reduce the interface development time by introducing the xml based configuration.  • Developed business logic layer using Spring Framework and integrated Hibernate  • Designed the system based on Spring MVC Model architecture.  • Used Spring framework to achieve loose coupling between the layers thus moving towards Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) exposed through SOAP.  • Analyses business needs and create software solutions.  • Designed and developed the application front end using Spring MVC, JSTL, JQUERY, AJAX, CSS, JSON and Java Server Pages.  • Worked on project build-script by using ANT.  • Converted Business to customer services into SOAP Services.  • Providing the technical solution for Complex production issues.  • Used SOAP client to interact with the services by providing the SOAP URL mapping.  • Worked closely with offshore development team and developed work estimates.  • Participated in business/client meetings and reported and co-coordinated with all stakeholders.  • Responsible for Creating/Configuring monitoring tools and automates proactive monitoring tasks.    Environment: Java, JDBC, Spring, Hibernate, SOA, JSP, WBIMB, WAS 7.0, SOAP, WSDL, PERL, ANT 1.6, XML, JavaScript, JPA, MQ Series, Tivoli, ITIL, Oracle and DB2. Java Developer Wipro - IN June 2010 to March 2012 Responsibilities:  • Designed and implemented the User Interface using JavaScript, HTML, XHTML, XML, CSS, JSP, and AJAX.  • Used Spring JDBC to execute database queries. Created row mappers and query classes for DB operations.  • Used Spring framework for Dependency Injection and JDBC connectivity.  • Developed RESTful Web services client to consume JSON messages using Spring JMS configuration. Developed the message listener code  • Design HTML prototypes, visual interfaces and interaction of Web-based design.  • Involved in development of custom Servlet handling http request and response objects.  • Create JSP pages for the Customer module of the application. Coded a JS until file for commonly used JS validation.  • Actively involved in code review, performance tuning and bug fixing phases.  • Good team player with ability to solve complex issues. Initiated team discussions to improved efficiency of the system.  • Used Maven as the build tool and Tortoise SVN as the Source version controller  • Involved in the deployment of the application in Integration and Implementation environment.  • Used Subversion (SVN) as the configuration management tool to manage the code repository.    Environment: Core Java, UNIX, J2EE, XML Schemas, XML, JavaScript, JSON, CSS3, HTML5, Angular JS, Hibernate, Design Patterns, Servlets, JUnit, JMS, MySQL, REST, Maven, Web Services, Apache Tomcat, Windows XP. Education Bachelor's Skills JAVA (8 years), JAVASCRIPT (8 years), JSON (8 years), WEB SERVICES (8 years), J2EE (7 years), Java 1.6, Spring Framework 4.0, Hibernate, XSLT, Bacjbone.js, Oracle 10g, JPA, Web Services, REST, WSDL, XML, Spring boot, JAXB, J Unit, Spring Boot, WebSphere, Mockito, Power Mock, WebSphere Server 7.0, DB Visualize, Cross Browser Testing, AWS, Logging, Ant. (8 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Primary Languages Java (1.5/1.6/1.7/1.8), SQL, PL/SQL, R programming  J2EE/Middleware J2EE (Servlets 4, JSP 2.0, JDBC)  Frameworks / UI Struts 1.1/2.0, Spring 2.5/3.x/4.x, Hibernate 4.0, Thyme leaf  Web services RESTful, SOAP, UDDI, WSDL, JSON.  Design Methodologies/Tools Waterfall model, Agile SCRUM  Version control Tools SVN, Git  Database Oracle 9i/10/11, MySQL 4.x/5.x, DB2, MongoDB  Tools/Others Service Now Tool, JUnit, ANT Maven 2.2.1, Log4J, Informatica Power enter 7.1, Putty, Jenkins, Splunk  GUI Technologies HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX  Web/App Servers Tomcat 5.0/6.0, WAS 6.1/7.1, WebLogic7/ 8/10, JBoss    Operating Systems Windows, UNIX  Other Languages C, C++