Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer Atlanta, GA ? Java/J2EE professional having 6+ years of technical expertise in complete Software development life cycle(SDLC) process that includes Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Implementation.  ? Core Java Developer with extensive experience programming languages and designing graphic applications.  ? Utilized analytical skills to identify test and debug program fault complete development requests.  ? Experience in developing enterprise and web applications using Spring, Hibernate, Web Services (SOAP, ReSTful), Servlets, JSP.  ? Extensive Experience with Spring Core,Spring IOC,Spring Boot,Spring AOP.  ? Experience in Web Services using SOAP,REST, UDDI and JAXB, WSDL and XML related technologies - XSD, DTD, XSLT, XPath, SAX, DOM, JAXM, JAXB and XML Beans, JMS  ? Experience with Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JAX-RPC, RMI, JMS, CORBA, JDBC, Java Networking, Applets, Multithreading, Swing and XML.  ? Extensively worked with JMS API for sending messages between two or more clients.  ? Worked with JMS Queues for sending messages in point-to-point mode.  ? Used J Boss Application server as the JMS provider to manage the sessions and queues.  ? Experience in Web UI using crosscutting framework Node JS, Express framework, Angular JS 2.0, JQuery 2.2.1, Java Script, AJAX.  ? Expertise in developing web services with XML based protocols such as SOAP and WSDL.  ? Hands on experience in working with Tomcat Server.  ? Experience with JUnit for the Unit testing of web application.  ? Experience in interacting with Clients, Collection of Requirement Specifications from the client site, performing Requirement Analysis and Designing.  ? Capable to learn new technology and adapt to a new environment quickly.  ? Establish and maintain productive working relationship with management, Clients and Team members.  ? Delivered Responsibilities as Analyst Programmer and Programmer. Strong functional experience includes Financial, Banking and Insurance.  ? Excellent experience in Object Oriented Analysis, Design and Development.  ? Worked directly with technical staff and QA engineers on the team to deliver high quality code for final validation & verification. Work Experience Full Stack Developer LEARNORA - Atlanta, GA January 2017 to May 2018 Learnora improves education through enhanced interaction between teachers, students, and parents allowing them to easily create content, deliver curriculum, and share knowledge through our seamless collaborative social learning management system.    Responsibilities:  ? Project is on agile methodology and executed on 2week spring.  ? Used Git for Versioning and concurrent access to the project files.  ? Designed and developed the action form beans and action classes and implemented MVC using Struts framework  ? Implemented HTML5 feature like semantics, local storage, data and required attributes and sliders.  ? Worked with JSON web tokens for authentication and authorization security configurations using Node.js.  ? Worked with npm commands and using package.json for managing dependencies and dev-dependencies of node js applications.  ? Use AngularJs to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.  ? Worked with Angular 2.0 directives, components, pipes, injectables.  ? Create Server Side implementation using spring 1.X and Hibernate.  ? Experience in Developing User Interface(UI)Rich Web Applications, and Web Service Applications using Front End/User Interface(UI)Technologies like Object Oriented JavaScript, Angular2.0, Angular4,Angularjs,Nodejs , CSS Frameworks, Java.  ? Experience in building end to end web applications using MEAN stack with Angular 1.X,2.  ? Experience with features of Angular 2 such as Directives, Dependency injection ,Modules and Routing.  ? Expertise in Angular 2.0 Framework and its ability to create simple and scalable code.  ? Worked extensively on Angular 2/Typescript SPA Domains.  ? Developed JMS interface Programs to push the new data from the One Point Application to other Corporate Systems.  ? Developed the Presentation and Controller layers using JSP,HTML, JAVA SCRIPT , Business logic using Spring IOC, AOP, BOOT, DTO and Persistent layer DAO.  ? Implemented service layer classes using Spring IOC and AOP classes.  ? Suggested Architectural improvements for the One Point to Corporate System Integration.  ? Developed various build scripts for building WebApplication, deploying beans across domains, creating jar/war/ear etc. using ANT build tool.  ? System has a facility to download or upload technical data  ? Web Interface is designed using J2EE, REST Web Services.  ? Used Angular for rich Internet applications.  ? J2EE framework facilitated the integration & deployment of Servlets, JSP and XML on Web Sphere.  ? Used JavaScript for validation  Environment: Java, Angular 2.0, Angular 4,Spring1.X, Strut,Hibernate, MongoDB3.4,express, JavaScript, REST Web Services, HTML, CSS, AJAX, DHTML, JSON, HTML5, JavaScript ,React JS,JMS. Java Developer Semantifi - Atlanta, GA August 2015 to December 2016 Semantifi is a knowledge based search engine tool that gives historical data. Unlike other search engine tools, it also searches un-structured data. It addresses key challenges to search structured data across the 'search stack'.  Semantifi search engine driven by knowledge base for relevant answers. Semantifi collects the historical data from various orgs, analyzes and produce the search output in terms of File System and Visualizations reports. End user can enter simple meaningful text in order to interact with the search engine to achieve the required results. Automatic data summaries & visualizations to interpret database results is one of the best feature of Semantifi Search Engine Tool    Responsibilities:  ? Developed the Application using Spring MVC Framework by implementing Controller, Service classes.  ? Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML file that contains declarations and other dependent objects declaration  ? Involved Working on Ui using Angular Js and JBPM to design the Business flow.  ? Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries, Spring Tag libraries and Java Script to simplify the complexity of the application  ? Involved in the development of HTML pages, JSPs and CSS for different User Interfaces  ? Involved in creating various Data Access Objects for Addition, modification and deletion of records using various specification files  ? Created tables, triggers, stored procedures, SQL queries, joins, integrity, constraints and views for multiple databases like Oracle and SQL Server  ? Involved in Unit Testing of various modules by generating the Test Cases  ? Used JIRA for bug tracking, issue tracking and project management  Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JBPM, Spring, Hibernate, EJB, XML,JMS, Oracle, MS SQL Server, Toad, JUnit, ANT, Log4j, Web Services JAX-RS, Jboss, JIRA, Eclipse Java/J2EE Developer TRA International Ltd - New Delhi, Delhi March 2012 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Creation of java web services and web application framework.  ? Analyze user requirements.  ? Debug,Record and execute Programs.  ? Prepared required program-level and user-level Documentation.  ? Prepared specific Java programs based on client requirements and desired applications.  ? Debugged existing java programs and applications.  ? Extensive coding in Java, JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, CSS style sheets and Oracle PLSQL.  ? Embedded session handling capability to the application.  ? Coded database objects, arrays, complex procedures and functions in Oracle PLSQL.  ? Creation of DAO layer.  ? Created the API alternative to JBPM using spring 4.0.0 ,Rest Webservices.  ? Code management and source control.  ? Involved in preparation of release notes and code deployment.  ? Defect fixing during all the testing phase.  ? Streamlining of development process and setting guidelines for new members in the team.  ? Used VSS for Version Control.  Environment: Core Java, servlet, Spring, Jsp, Oracle 10g, XML, Eclipse, JBOSS, JBPM    Description: E-RAM is an Intranet-based, enterprise-wide risk management software solution that combines transaction risk. Management and decision support with robust portfolio analytics. With e-RAM you can identify total company-wide risk exposure, review your account base from anywhere in the organization, benchmark performance by location and consolidate critical business details to gain a more complete understanding of the potential risks and rewards associated with each customer - all from your company\'s Intranet. E-RAM provides a big picture view of your customer base, across all divisions and branches, functioning as both an operational and strategic tool for business growth. e -RAM combines your payment records and experiences with high quality, dynamic D & B information on risk scoring, payment and financial information, demographics, corporate family relationships and more. In particular, it uses the unique Account Number identification system to demonstrate customer linkages to help you understand the total risk exposure across your organization with any one business. So you can take a strategic approach to managing risk and ultimately change the way your company approaches risk management. In the project we are using core java, J2ee (Tomcat) as the front end and Oracle and SQL Server Databases as the backend. Education B.Tech Synergy institute of Engineering and Technology May 2012 Skills J2EE (6 years), JAVA (6 years), SPRING (6 years), JSP (6 years), CSS (6 years) Additional Information Technical Skill:  Project Methodologies Waterfall and Agile  Frameworks/Packages  Core Java, Exception, Data Structure, HashMap, List, Set, Concurrency ,J2EE,Spring2.0.0, Spring Web Flow, Strut,Hibernate, CXF, Servlet, JSP, JDBC, JBPM6.0,JMS,SPRING BOOT.    Web Services/Framework REST, Jersey1.14, jersey-json1.9, RestEasy-jaxrs2.2,Resteasy-jackson-provider-2.2.1,WSDL, UDDI, SOAP/AXIS , XML, XSD, XSLT  UI Framework Angular JS 2.0, Angular 4, Node JSv6.3.0, express, JQuery 2.2.1, HTML, CSS,Reactjs  Web/Application Servers: JBoss 5.x, Apache Tomcat  Database Technologies: MySQL, Oracle10g  Big Data MongoDb  API's Servlets, Java Naming and Directory Interface (JNDI)  Operating System: Windows (95/98XP/2000/NT), LINUX , UNIX  Development Tools: Eclipse 3.x  Build Tools: Ant, Maven  Testing Tools: JUnit  Version Control Tools: SVN, CVS, Visual Source Safe, Clear Case, TFS(Team Foundation Server)