JavaFull Stack Developer JavaFull Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> JavaFull Stack Developer - Intel Corporation Chicago, IL • Having almost 6 yearsof experience in design, development and implementation of software applications using Java, J2EE, technologies. Having good experience in the Information Technology Industry and also healthy participation in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including analysis, design, coding.  • Experience in Test Driven Development, Waterfall model and Agile methodologies like SCRUM.  • Experience in analysis, design, development, testing, maintenance, performance tuning and deployment of internet, e-commerce and client-server applications using Java, Servlets, JSP, JavaBeans, JDBC,Spring, Hibernate, AJAX, and JavaScript.  • Expertise in Distributed and Web environments, focused in JAVA Technologies - Java collections, Threads, J2SE, JDBC, Struts, Spring, Hibernate Framework.  • Expertise in Web-Development technologies like Servlets, JSP, HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3, XML, J Query.  • Good OOAD skills and data modeling using UML (Use-cases, Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams etc.). Used UML tools like STARUML.  • Expertise in Client scripting language and server-side scripting languages like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, j Query.  • Extensive experience in Amazon Web Services (Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Simple DB, Amazon EBS, Amazon RDS, AWS Cloud Watch, Amazon Elastic Load Balancing, Amazon SQS, AWSIdentity and access management and Amazon Cloud Front).  • Extensive knowledge of XML-based standards and protocols (such as WSDL and SOAP), Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  • Extensively experienced in Middle Tier Development using Servlets, JSPs, and EJB(3.0).  • Good knowledge and experience with Servers like Web Logic server, Apache Tomcat, J Boss.  • Extensive experience in working IDE tools like Eclipse, IntelliJ.  • Strong experience in JDBC, SQL, PL/SQL.  • Experienced in generating logging by Log4j to identify the errors in production test environment and experienced in Ant, Maven and Gradle tools.  • Strong experience in UNIX and Shell scripting.  • Hands on experience with Angular JS.  • Experience in SVN for version control and used Mavenfor building  • Constructed and evaluated various types of datasets by performing machinelearningmodels using algorithms and statistical modeling techniques such as classification and decision trees.  • Involved in DetectingPatterns with supervised Learning and evaluated datasets for accuracy and quality.  • Good experience in working with team members and internal departments to coordinate activities across multiple applications. Work Experience JavaFull Stack Developer Intel Corporation - Santa Clara, CA August 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Using Spring's MVC framework to better control the presentation, business and navigational aspects of the applications  • Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud Micro services and develop spring-based application with very less configuration.  • Implementing Spring MVC with Spring Boot which includes writing Controller classes for handling requests, processing form submissions and performed validations.  • Developed Micro Service to provide Restful API utilizing Spring Boot with various data persistence frameworks such Hibernate,JPA and messaging engines.  • Increased efficiency of environment setup to become 80% faster by using Spring Boot&Maven to simplify configuration, development, and deployment.  • Integration with spring security in web application.  • Development of web modules and middleware components using AWS and Spring integration.  • Developing Single page application (SPA) using the latest technologies like Angular5, Typescript, Bootstrap, JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5.  • Worked onRe-usable components and routing to implement navigation between the components using Angular framework.  • Facilitates Angular components like modules, controllers, built-in and customized directives, Pipes and using Bootstrap created application Mockups.  • Implemented applications with Lazy Loading concept to decrease the initial payload time and downloading time for the application.  • Developed REST fulweb services (Micro services) supporting both XML and JSON (Jackson) via Spring Rest Template.  • Installed and configured required software for application development (RAD, Oracle database) Web Sphere, Tomcat, plug in's for Eclipse, required framework jars.  • Developed all the page styles by using Bootstrap and LESS to gain better structure of style sheets for maintenance purpose.  • Used shared Services to transfer the data between sibling components.  • Used Angular Life Cycle hooks to the application for adding more functionality to components at phase of the component creation.  • Used HTTP methods in services to communicate and retrieval of data from the API.  • Developed server-side software modules and client-side user interface components deployed entirely in Compute Cloud of Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Used Spring boot Actuator to externalize application configuration properties for different environments.  • Experienced in handling Version Control Systems like SVN and GIT.  • Experienced in build tools like Ant and Maven, Log4j for Logging and Junit, Mock it o for testing.  • Involved in AgileScrumMethodology and Test-Driven Development (TDD) for the software development process to produce high quality application  • Used Jenkins for CI/CD Continuous Implementation and Continuous Delivery.  • Worked as per Agile Methodology (Scrum) to meet customer expectation, timelines with quality deliverables.    Environment: Java 1.8, HTML5, AWS, CSS3, Bootstrap, Web Sphere, JavaScript, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring Annotations, Groovy, Angular 5, Restful Web Services, j Query, GitHub, AWS, NPM, Micro services, Mongo DB, Tomcat Server. Java/J2EE Developer TiaaCref, Carry, NC August 2017 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  • Developed Java modules implementing business rules and workflows using SpringMVC, Web Framework.  • Had experience in performance tuning J2EE apps, performance testing, analysis, and tuning.  • Designed and developed the REST based Micro services using the Spring Boot.  • Deployed services in Spring Cloud using Pivotal Cloud Foundry with PCF CLI client  • Worked on core AWS services such as Setting up new server (EC2) instances/services in AWS, configuring security groups, and setting up Elastic IP's, auto-scaling and Cloud Formation.  • Performed code reviews and provided guidelines for best practices of software management, Coding Standards and Code Commenting for better understandability.  • Implementing or exposing the Micro services based on RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Designed and developed product for delivery location monitoring system using Spring MVC, SpringBoot, Spring Data, Spring Cloud, Maven, JPA, Hibernate, Tomcat, Rabbit MQ, MySQL, Web Socket, and implemented server-side REST APIs.  • Used Java8 features in developing the code like Lambda expressions, creating resource classes, fetching documents from database.  • Developed Java API to connect with AWS S3 Services for storing and retrieving data stored in the S3 buckets.  • Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud Micro services and develop Spring based application with very less configuration.  • Designed and developed asynchronous RESTful Micro services using spring boot, Couch base and RX Java that are consumed by other Micro services with an average response time of 30 milliseconds.  • Wrote build and deployed scripts using Shell and ANT scripts and involved in performance analysis of the application and fixed problems/suggest solutions.  • Migrated existing Java (GWT) Batch processing Application to cloud environment in AWS.  • Actively involved in coding using Java 1.8, Spring to develop features from end to end; Used Java collection API extensively such as Lists, Sets and Maps.  • Very Good understanding and Working Knowledge of Object Oriented Programming (OOPS), Python and Scala Actively involved in deployment Application war files in Web logic Application server.  • Used Maven for application build and svn for change control management.  • Unit testing of developed product features using Junit and Mock i to frameworks as part of development cycle.  • Used SOAP based Web services and RESTful Web services for transferring data between applications.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring MVC, Hibernate v3.0, Micro services, Angular4, Oracle DB,,SOAPUI 5.1, IntelliJ, Db. Visualizer, Tomcat, JBoss, SVN, Maven, JIRA, SOAP/RESTful, Web Services, WSDL, Agile, cucumber, Bamboo CI. Java/ J2EE developer HSBC - Hyderabad, Telangana November 2016 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  • Actively participated in different phases of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and analyzed Use case diagrams and Class diagrams based on requirement.  • Migrating existing application into REST based Micro services to provide all the CRUD capabilities using Spring Boot.  • Created S3 buckets and managed roles and policies for S3 buckets. Utilized S3 buckets and Glacier for file storage and backup on AWS cloud. Used Dynamo DB to store the data for metrics and backend reports.  • Developed and deployed solution using several new technologies, including Linux Ubuntu and Apache SOLR  • Presentation Layer is created using JSP, HTML, Apache Jena and Struts Tag Libraries.  • Configured frontend to server side by using Struts Configuration.  • Validated user data using Struts Action Forms and user request is processed using Action Classes.  • Written Hibernate mapping file for each Java Object and configured with respective table in Hibernate Configuration.  • Worked with No SQL Cassandra to store, retrieve, and update and manage all the details for Ethernet provisioning and customer order tracking.  • Processing data ingestion and entity resolution using Hadoop and Pig.  • Involved in developing spring-ORM by integrating spring with Hibernate.  • Applied Hadoop Map Reduce to reduce processing time from two weeks per year of data to one day.  • Implemented Micro services architecture using Spring Boot for making application smaller and independent.  • Working experience with No SQL DB Mongo DB, Cassandra for offering commercial support and other services.  • Developed major websites and services by including Mongo DB and cassandra as backend software.  • Developed DAO's (Data Access Objects) and performed O/R mapping using Hibernate to access the database.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Struts 1.2, Struts Tag Libraries, SpringMVC, Spring Web Flow, Hibernate, Oracle 9i, Web Sphere 5.1, SOAPUI 5.1, IntelliJ, Db. Visualizer, Tomcat, JBoss, SVN, Maven, JIRA, SOAP/RESTful Web Services, WSDL, Spring Based Micro services, Multi-Threading, Agile and Scrum methodology. Javadeveloper Contrive IT Solutions Pvt ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2013 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, design and development of e-bill payment system, transactions, History, Branch Locator as well as account transfer system and developed specs that include Use Cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Activity Diagrams in UML with Rational tools.  • Developed core Service as maven jar that can be included by other Micro services as their maven dependency.  • Developed React stateful and stateless re-usable components, created actions, stores, dispatcher and configured even emitter to emit the events up on changes to the stores.  • Worked on various subscriptions and topics using SNS, SQS based services and automated the environment deployment on AWS cloud. Also, sent bulk emails to users developed Java API to interact with SQS and SNS.  • Developed the presentation tier using Spring Framework that ensures MVC rapid application development.  • Developed account transfer system using Spring beans and developed persistence layer in Hibernate for data access  • Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection and integrated with the JSF Framework and  • Hibernate.  • Created data model and generated Hibernate mappings and domain objects using Hibernate tools; interfaced back-end database by integrating Spring with Hibernate.  • Good knowledge in Developed Java API to connect with AWS S3 Services for storing and retrieving data stored in the S3 buckets.  • Designed and developed the REST based Micro services using the Spring Boot, Spring Data with JPA  • Interfaced with the No SQL, Mongo DB back-end database by integrating Spring with Hibernate.  • Experienced in using Spring annotations based on layer in applications like Component, Controller,  • Service, Repository, etc. annotations.  • Developed and maintained elaborate services based architecture utilizing open source technologies like Hibernate ORM and Spring MVC Framework.  • Used Mongo DB in conjunction with the AWS S3 for storing the metadata information on Mongo DB collections.  • Development SOAP and REST Ful Web services using Apache Axis1, Web logic, Web Service Tools, Session beans as web services, Spring MVC and Jersey.  • Implemented and configuring SpringMVC components Dispatch servlet, Controllers and View resolvers.  • Developed SOAP Web Services by using JAX-WS and RESTful web services by using (JAX-RS) Jersey framework.  • Developed Web Services to provide the list of transactions for an account as a SOAP endpoint service  • Used XSLT to transform the response data in a readable form to be presented to the user    Environment: Java, Hibernate, Spring, SOAP/REST web services, JSF, MySQL, Maven, CVS, WSDL, Jax-Rs, Junit, Log4j Education Master's Skills ECLIPSE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, JBOSS Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages JAVA 6.0/7.0/8.0, Python, MySQL, PL/SQL, C.  Web Technologies JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JMS, JPA, Web Services, SOAP, WSDL,HTML, XML, Java Beans, JavaScript, CSS3.  Web/App. Servers Apache Tomcat, Web Logic, Web sphere, JBoss.  IDEs Eclipse, Intellij.  Tools Ant, MAVEN, PL/SQL Developer, JUnit, JIRA  Operating systems Windows, UNIX, Linux.  Databases Oracle, MySQL, MS SQL Server 7.0, Sybase, MS-Access.  Frameworks Struts, SpringMVC, Spring JDBC, Spring Web Flow, Hibernate, Log4j, JSF, JPA. Angular Js, Angular 2.0, 4.0, 5.0, Bootstrap, Node.js, React Js  Version Control SVN, GIT.  Development Methodologies Waterfall, Agile and Scrum  Services SOA architecture, RESTFUL/SOAP, Micro services