Sr Java Developer Sr <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Alpharetta, GA Work Experience Sr Java Developer Zurich Schaumburg - Schaumburg, IL April 2014 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Involved in analysis and design phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  ? Involved in analysis, design and development and testing phases of the application development using Scrum Agile methodology.  ? Developed JSP and Servlets to dynamically generate HTML5/HTML and display the data to the client side.  ? Designed and developed application based on Spring MVC design pattern.  ? Involved in the implementation of DAO using Spring-Hibernate ORM.  ? Implementation & design of bean orchestration using Apache Camel.  ? Developed and implemented the In memory Queue logic for different modules of the project where the logic deals with calculating the minimum, maximum and average time taken for the active users at a given period of time.  ? Developed facilities for stripping long error messages from minified JavaScript code for Angular JS.  ? Worked on jQuery for user interface interactions, effects and themes built on top of the jQuery JavaScripts.  ? Involved in the JMS Connection Pool and the implementation of publish and subscribe using Spring JMS.  ? Used GIT for source control and Jenkins for continuous integrations.  ? IBM WebSphere Application Server was used to deploy the application, and IBM RAD (Rational Application Developer) was used as the IDE for development of the application.  ? Used Hibernate to create persistence class objects and also created beans to interact with the database.  ? Created controller Servlets for handling HTTP requests from JSP pages.  ? Worked on Java Beans and other business components for the application and implemented new functionalities for the application.  ? Developed producer side Web services using JAX-WS.  ? Developed Restful web services to interact with application portal for other systems.  ? Written and executed stored-procedures on SQL SERVER back-end through JDBC API.  ? Administered deployment, installation the Documentum for client systems.  ? Developed the application using Eclipse IDE.  ? Worked on access token and client secret code functionality for authorization server.  ? Used Maven for dependency management and for building the application.  ? Implemented JSF ICEFaces for Developing User Interface  ? Used Spring JPA, Spring DATA for data access and mapping.  ? Developed complex database queries and involved in performance tuning of queries.  ? Create the deployment document on various environments such as Test, QC, and UAT.  ? Involved in writing service class objects that depend on the data access objects.    Environment: Core Java, J2EE, HTML5/HTML, CSS3/CSS, AngularJS, Eclipse IDE, Ajax, Json, Xml, Jquery, JSF, JUnit Spring, API, SOA, Soap, EJB, Restful Web Services, Jconsole, Visual VM, Tomcat 7.0, SQL Server 2014/2012, Maven, Log4j, JSP. Sr Java Developer Maximus - Austin, TX March 2012 to March 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in architecting various Business Layer and Data Management components of this web based system over J2EE architecture  ? Developed web pages using Struts framework, JSP, XML, JavaScript, Html/ DHTML and CSS, configure struts application, use tag library.  ? Have written code in actions, forms, DAOs based on the use cases.  ? Implemented client side validations using java script & server side validations using Struts validation framework.  ? WebSphere is responsible for transferring data to other queue managers.  ? Used Apache Struts framework includes the integrated AJAX calls from UI.  ? Developed servlets and custom tags for JSP pages.  ? Followed best design patterns and the practices & guidelines.  ? Integrated Hibernate ORM framework with spring framework for data persistence and transaction management.  ? Wrote configuration files for injecting EJBs, Service Impls and DAO classes.  ? Implemented the application using JSF which is based on Model View Controller design pattern.  ? Involved in design (using RUP, Visio) and implemented (SOA, SOAP) next generation system on distributed platform.  ? Implemented drag and drop, calendar widget, print functionality using Jquery.  ? Implemented the iterative development process using the RUP methodology.  ? Extensively used XSL as a XML parsing mechanism for showing Dynamic Web Pages in HTML5 format.  ? Developed Components and Interfaces using Spring MVC, Spring JPA.  ? Developed Messaging frame work for Asynchronous service using JMS.  ? Used JAXP for Xml parsing & JAXB for marshalling & un marshalling  ? Followed top down approach to implement SOAP based web services & used AXIS commands to generate artifacts from WSDL file.  ? Wrote stored procedure and used JAVA APIs to call these procedures.  ? Used JERSEY API to develop restful web services.  ? Used CVS as a source control for code changes.  ? Used Maven tool to build the project and JUnit to develop unit test cases.  ? Developed coding using SQL, PL/SQL, Queries, Joins, Views, Procedures/Functions, Triggers and Packages.  ? Worked closely with Business users during UAT testing.  ? Provided development support for System Testing, Product Testing, User Acceptance Testing, Data Conversion Testing, Load Testing, and Production.  ? Deployed application on WebSphere application server.    Environment: Java 1.5, J2EE, AJAX, Servlets, JSP, JSF, HTML, CSS, Eclipse, Angular Js, Struts, Validation Framework, JSTL, XML, CVS, Java Script, EJB, Maven, SQL Server 2012, WSDL, SOAP, SOAP UI, Log4J, DB2, WebSphere server 8.1, PL/SQL. Java Developer GLIC - Jersey City, NJ January 2011 to February 2012 Responsibilities:  ? Involved right from requirement gathering till the deployment phase.  ? Developed screens based on JQuery to dynamically generate HTML and display the data to the client side. Extensively used JSP tag libraries.  ? Designed and developed Application based on Spring MVC Framework using MVC design pattern.  ? Developed the Login, Policy and Claims Screens for customers using AJAX, JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JSF Tags.  ? Configured Jenkins for successful deployment to test and production environments.  ? Provided Hibernate configuration file and mapping files and also involved in the integration of Struts with Hibernate libraries.  ? Used XML to transfer the application data between client and server.  ? XSLT style sheets for the XML data transformations.  ? Used JUnit to write repeatable tests mainly for unit testing.  ? Participated in designing WebService framework in support of the product.  ? Developed web services in Java and Experienced with SOAP, WSDL.  ? Used Log4j extensively for logging Errors.  ? Involved in developing Packages, Stored Procedures, Functions, PL/SQL scripts using SQL plus in Oracle database.  ? Deployed the application in various environments DEV, QA and also Production.  ? Designed, developed and maintained the data layer using Hibernate and performed configuration of Spring Application Framework.  ? Used the JDBC for data retrieval from the database for various inquiries.  ? Performed purification of the application database entries using Oracle 10g.  ? Used GIT as source control.  ? Generated Entity classes and schema using them.  ? Created Application Property Files and implemented internationalization.  ? Involved in complete development of 'Agile Development Methodology' and tested the application in each iteration  ? Used Restful calls for fetching and writing data to different host systems.  ? Wrote complex SQL and HQL queries to retrieve data from the Oracle database.  ? Configured and used JPA for loading entities and database connections.  ? Involved E2E Development by integrating Front End and Backend by Debugging.  ? Involved in fixing System testing issues and UAT issues.    Environment: Java , J2EE, J2EE architecture, JSP, JSF, JDBC, Spring, EJB, Servlets, SOAP Web Services, XML, JNDI, Rest web services, JMS, Tomcat, AJAX, Maven, Oracle 11g, SQL developer, HTML, JUnit 4.11, JavaScript. Java Developer Tech Mahindra - IN August 2009 to December 2010 Responsibilities:  ? Worked with business and user groups to identify and implement functional enhancements and new requirements.  ? Extensively used XSL as a XML parsing mechanism for showing Dynamic Web Pages in HTML format.  ? Developed complex intra Portlet communication across web applications using cooperative Portlets. Developed simple Portlet messaging on a single page using Portlet API.  ? Used Portal Enable, Portal Extend for personalization, content publishing, document management, productivity functions along with the scalable portal framework.  ? Extensively used Portal toolkit plug-in for creating, testing, debugging and deploying individual Portlets.  ? Developed JSF components to support user entry values  ? Involved in the development of Standard XML reports using the Xalan parser and XSLT style sheets.  ? Developed billing system pages using Struts Framework and written some of the custom tags.  ? Used Spring IOC and MVC for enhanced modules.  ? Implemented SOAP protocol to get the requests from the outside System.  ? Used Rational Clear Case as a source control for code changes.  ? Followed coding and documentation standards.  ? Involved the writing SQL quarries and Joins.  ? Used Rational Clear Quest to document and track issues and resolutions.  ? Provided development support for System Testing, Product Testing, User Acceptance Testing, Data Conversion Testing, Load Testing, and Production.  ? Involved in configuration and deployment of application on Web Logic server.    Environment: Java, J2EE, J2EE architecture, Servlets, JSP, Struts, Web services, Portals, Hibernate, XML, HTML, Java Script, SOAP, AJAX, RAD, Ant, Maven, Log4J, Oracle9i, Web Logic server, Linux. Jr Developer HP May 2008 to July 2009 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Analysis, Design, Developing uses cases, sequence diagrams, class diagram, and flow charts.  ? Involved in development of Web Application using Struts Framework, Wrote Action Classes, Action Form Bean and configure the application using struts Configuration file.  ? Responsible for administration of Hitachi app server and VSS.  ? Implement Web interface to the application using struts framework.  ? Developed the JSP and Servlet test them using Hitachi testing environment.  ? Developed Value Objects ( Java beans), which interacts with SQL Server.  ? Installed Visual Source Safe and maintained project repository  ? Formatting XML documents with JSTL and XSLT  ? Responsible for parsing XML documents with JAXP  ? Used MVC and Session Facade Design Patterns    Environment: Web Services, J2EE, Java, OOAD, Servlets, JSP, UML, JDBC, DAO, MVC, XML, HTML, CSS, XSL, Struts1.1, Unix, Visual Source Safe, Rational Rose, SQL Server 2005. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages Java, Java Script, Unit Shell Scripting, PL/SQL.  J2EE Technologies Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JDBC, EJB, Design Patterns, JNDI, JMS, JAXP, JPA, RMI, JSF, JUnit  Frameworks Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Angular.js.  Scripting JavaScript, Jquery, AJAX, Unix Shell, Log4J.  Database Oracle, MS SQL Server, DB2.  Web/Application Servers JBoss, Websphere, Web Logic, Apache Tomcat.  IDE tools Eclipse, RAD, NetBeans.  XML Technologies XML, XSLT, DOM, DTD.  Web Services JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, SOAP, RESTful, WSDL, UDDI.  Version control CVS, SVN, Clearcase,TFS  Web Technologies HTML, DHTML, CSS, AJAX,EXT JS, JavaScript.  Design Tools Star UML, Rational Rose, MS-Visio.  Operating Systems Windows 98/2000/ XP/Windows 7, Window 8, Linux and Unix.