Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Full Stack Developer - American Century Kansas City, MO • As a Full Stack JAVA developer with 7+ years of experience in implementing Java/J2EE projects, working through Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Implementation in Application Software.  • Expertise in using J2EE technologies like Servlets, JSP, Struts, JMS, Hibernate, Spring, JDBC, JNDI, IBM MQ Series, JSF, Python, MongoDB, angular.JS, Java Beans and Web services (SOAP, Rest).  • Extensive experience using Spring Framework in business layer for Dependency Injection, AOP, Spring MVC, transaction management and using Hibernate as a persistence layer.  • Experience Front end part of the application using Angular.JS, Ext.JS, Backbone.JS, JQuery, Node.JS, Html5 and CSS.  • Strong knowledge and experience in creating web based presentation for the client using HTML5, JSP, Servlets, Ajax, JQuery, EXT.JS, JSTL and JavaScript.  • Experience in XML related technologies like XML, DTD, XSL, XSLT, XPATH, JAXB, JAXP, SAX and DOM Parsers.  • Knowledge of J2EE design patterns like MVC, Front Controller, Factory, Abstract Factory, Command Pattern, Singleton, Session Facade, Transfer Object, Business Delegate and Data Access Object etc.  • Extensive hands on experience in consuming as well as developing API for SOAP and REST based web services to integrate third party functional modules into the core application.  • Experience with several design patterns like Singleton, Factory Method, Prototype, etc. and architectures like Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and MVC.  • Experienced in implementing DAO layer using ORM tools like Hibernate core interfaces, annotations and optimizations.  • Proficient in using XML Suite of Technologies like XML, XSL, XSLT, DTD, XML Schema, SAX and DOM Parsers.  • Have deep understanding of both Relational Database and also experience in non-relational database like MongoDB.  • Extensive experience in SQL, Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers with databases such as Oracle, IBM DB2 and MS SQL Server.  • Experienced in using WSDL, SOAP, and Apache AXIS for Web Services.  • Expertise in client side designing and validations using HTML, DHTML, CSS, Java Script, AJAX, JSP, XML, JSF and Swing.  • Experience in High charts and High stock API for developing interactive UI charts.  • Experience in using Maven and Ant for build automation.  • Hands on exposure to multiple Application Servers like BEA Web logic Application Server, Apache Tomcat, WebSphere and JBoss.  • Experience in writing the scripting language Groovy which can run on Java virtual machine.  • Experience in shell scripting and Python in Unix/Linux environment.  • Extensive development experience on different IDE's like Eclipse, JBoss, RAD and NetBeans for debugging and using java coding standards.  • Communicate effectively with people at different levels including stakeholders, internal teams and the senior management.  • Experience working in an Agile/Scrum team environment and pair programming. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java Full Stack Developer American Century - Kansas City, MO January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in Analysis, Design, Development, System Testing and User Acceptance Testing. Successfully followed agile methodology in the Scrum Cycle model.  • Involved in the development using Java/J2EE Technologies, Web Services and Hibernate ORM Framework.  • Designed and developed Microservices using REST framework and Spring Boot and used Bootstrap along with AngularJS in creating the Application.  • Worked in all the modules of the application which involved front-end presentation logic developed using, JSP and Java Script, Middleware layer using Servlet and Controllers, Business objects developed using Page Beans and data access layer using iBatis and Hibernate framework.  • Used NodeJS for doing non-blocking design operation for server side code and Angular.js framework in developing various UI components.  • Used Java8 features in developing the code like Lambda expressions, creating resource classes, fetching documents from database.  • Worked on Components, Directives, Services, Forms, Http Access, Authentication, optimizing an internal application using Angular 2 with Modules and Offline Compilation.  • Implemented features such as routing, data binding, data updates without a page refresh using Angular 2.  • Used Angular 2 Http services for asynchronous validations for the input fields of the forms with the data existed in the database.  • Proficient in using Jenkins, Docker for continuous integration and continuous builds with Maven, Gradle and ANT.  • Developed the responsive UI web pages using XHTML, jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Angular JS 2, JavaScript, node JS and has worked with Angular JS filters in expressions and directives to filter data in the UI.  • Extensively used MVC, Factory, Delegate and Singleton design patterns.  • Used spring framework including spring core/IoC, Spring Web, Spring Security and implement the authentication, authorization, and access-control features by using Spring Security.  • Used React JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  • Used Spring Inversion of Control (IOC) for injecting the beans and reduced the coupling between the classes and implemented the Model View Controller using Spring MVC.  • Implemented the application using Spring Boot Framework and handled the security using Spring Security.  • Microservices have been built using spring boot, Netflix OSS, spring cloud and deploying to AWS Cloud.  • Experienced in object oriented analysis, design and application development using JAVA, J2EE, XML, JSON, RAML, JMS, BRMS, NoSQL technologies.  • Implemented code according to create AngularJS Controller, which isolate scopes perform operations.  • Responsible for maintaining and expanding AWS (Cloud Services) infrastructure using AWS Stack especially worked with database setup and maintenance on AWS EC2.  • Implemented REST based web services using JAX-RS annotations, Jersey provider and consumed using HTTP services from angular JS modules.  • Used Angular 2.0 HTTP Module to make API calls and worked with the observables.  • Developed Single page applications and Custom Directives using Angular 2.0.  • Responsible for setting up AngularJS framework for UI development.  • Involved in deployment of the application at various environments (Development, QA Testing, Staging, and Production).  • Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud Microservices and develop spring based application with very less configuration.  • Created Jenkins jobs and pipelines and integrated python scripts to communicate to AWS resources.  • Used spring framework to provide loose coupling between different application modules.  • Experience with Docker containers, creating Docker Images, containers images, pushing images, integration of Spring boot.  • Involved extensively in Code Reviews, Unit testing and Process Improvements.  • Worked with NoSQL database Mongo DB and worked with it to perform many different operations.  • Involved in writing Unit test cases for unit testing using Junit.  • Used Cassandra for achieving denormalization through features like collections.    Environment: J2EE, Java 1.8, UDB , Spring framework, Sybase, Spring MVC, Angular 2Hibernate, JSP, AJAX, SOA, Web Services, Microservices, XML, Ext JS, NodeJS, JQuery, JavaScript, IBM RAD 9.1, WebSphere 8.5, Agile Methodology, Design Patterns, Clear Case, Apache Maven, Docker, Angular JS, Apache Cassandra, MongoDB, JUnit, Html, Unit, XSLT, ReactJS, HTML/DHTML, JENKINS, Spark, Kafka. Sr. Java Developer ServiceMaster - Memphis, TN September 2016 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirements gathering, Development, Testing and delivery of application.  • Followed Agile methodology and Scrum.  • Provide better estimates while spending less time creating them and make sure we were in control of the project schedule and state.  • Performed User Interface Design and coding using Java, Spring framework and web technologies.  • Worked on power DNS on the AWS cloud and maintained it with Oracle database.  • Developed the applications using JSP, Struts and implemented MVC Architecture.  • Designed UI pages using JSP, HTML, Angular2, Typescript, JavaScript, CSS, AJAX, JQuery, JSP, JSON and Tag libraries.  • Implemented business tier using Spring IOC, AOP and MVC.  • Utilize Camel to integrate Microservices with other Microservices and RabbitMQ messaging exchanges. Developed Scripts for AWS Orchestration  • Worked on Asynchronous continuations using Activity Engine.  • Design and manipulation of JBPM process for the client activities in order to manage the people queue for each activity.  • Wrote Notification Microservice to send notifications via Email, Push and SMS  • Designed and implemented a SOA Microservice with a JSON HTTP REST API.  • Worked on Creating Kafka Adaptors for decoupling the application dependency.  • Utilized RabbitMQ as the messaging middleware.  • Utilized Spring annotations and XML configuration for Dependency Injection.  • Involved in implementing logging, exception handling and transaction management using Spring AOP.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection and used Apache Camel to integrate Spring framework.  • Monitoring agent on each service instance by Micro-services monitoring system  • Involved in ORM mappings for associations, Inheritance & fetching strategy, performing CRUD operations and managing second level cache using Hibernate.  • Developed, and debugged the Servlets and EJB with WebSphere Application server.  • Developed Web Services for data transfer using Restful web services.  • Managed Project dependencies and build using Maven.  • Used JAXB to call web services described by WSDL.  • Implemented pre-authentication and data base security using Spring Security.  • Tested SOAP web services using SOAP UI and REST web services using REST Client.  • Built an ELK stack for MySQL monitoring and provides log analytics service for other four systems.  • Used Angular2 and Handlebars.js framework where data from backend is stored in model and populated it to UI.  • Created AngularJS2 Controller Which Isolate scopes perform operations in UI.  • Using AngularJS2 created custom directives for data manipulations and to display data in company standard format in UI.  • Converted the pages from XMI (XML Metadata Interchange) to AngularJS and in this process had to deal with converting the XMI request and response in the front end to JSON ( Java Script Object Notation).  • Oracle 11g was the database used.  • JPA with hibernate was used to connect to the database.  • Automated deployment of Elastic Search, Log stash, and Kabana for monitoring.  • Build Rest services using Node JS and Express JS for internal application.  • Implemented agent-server messaging dialog using Camel and JMS (Active MQ implementation).  • Involved in setting up Connection pooling and used JMS for Asynchronous messaging.  • Developed JAX-WS SOAP webservices using Apache CXF as the implementation.  • Developed and used JAX-RS restful webservices using Jersey as the implementation.  • Extensively used Oracle ETL process for address data cleansing.  • JUnit/Mocha tests were written to test each module in the application.  • Developed test-driven development (TDD) strategy guiding use of the Junit testing framework.  • Involved in peer code reviews.  • QA, UAT & Production issues investigation and supporting business users.  • Working with the middleware team and DBAs regarding the database issues and code deployments.  • Followed coding guidelines, ran PMD& Find bugs and also make sure the 100% code coverage to maintain the quality of code.  • Prepared Change Request business documents and involved in change and release management.    Environment:  Java 1.7, Eclipse 3.3, Angular2 Spring MVC, AOP, Spring Security, Oracle 11g, JPA, Hibernate 4.1, Ajax, XML, AWS, Websphere, HTML, JSP 2.1, Log4j 1.3, Kafka, Docker, Junit, NodeJS, Maven, Jenkins, Cassandra, PMD, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, Elastic Search, AngularJS2, Handlerbar.js, JQuery, JQueryUI, ExpressJS, JUnit. Sr. Full Stack Java Developer CNSI - Rockville, MD April 2015 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile methodology and involved in daily meetings, sprint planning, showcases and retrospective and used RALLY as a tracking tool for the sprints.  • Involved in programming, testing, debugging, implementing and maintaining of J2EE client/server distributed applications to meet the organizational needs.  • Developed various feature specific modules and implemented module wide routing in the application using React router module.  • Created web pages using Angular data driven and template driven forms and created custom asynchronous validations to validate the data on server side.  • Developed different charts such as bar, pie charts in the application using Angular2 charting library.  • Created validations for REST services using Joi and took part in setting up logging for the REST services.  • Created REST micro services using Spring Boot and took part in enhancing existing Java and Spring applications.  • Created Batch jobs using Spring Batch and used Quartz Scheduler to schedule the jobs which process XML files.  • Created new entities and JPA repositories using Spring JPA and created REST validations for XML and JSON requests for REST controllers.  • Involved in writing SQL scripts and creating backend database table for complex business operations. Participated in building web-services using SOAP that allowed integrating the business application with the legacy applications and facilitates for future applications.  • Involved in writing queries, stored procedures and modifications to existing database structure as required per addition of new features.  • Extensively used Core Java collections, Generics, Exception handling, Design patterns for functionality, also worked on Java functional programming concepts, Streams, new date time API and lambda expressions.  • Used Log4j API for logging in development, testing and production environments, configured to send email notifications.  • Implemented version controlling using GIT and used Jenkins for continuous integration. Wrote build &deployment scripts using Maven on UNIX environment.  • Developed queues using AWS SQS with JMS for services to subscribe and listen to events using Spring JMS.  • Created cloud formation templates in setting up DEV, QA and UAT environments using AWS Cloud formation and leveraged Elastic container services to run Docker micro services in AWS.  • Worked with Jenkins in setting up CI/CD pipeline for dev environment and involved in setting up GIT web hooks.  • Used GIT for version control and used Eclipse as the IDE for developing the application, Used Rational Clear Quest for defect fixing. Involved in guiding, mentoring new contractors to understand the application.  • Worked on data driven testing, Cross browser testing and parallel test execution using Selenium Web driver, TestNG and Selenium Grid.  • Co-ordinated with QA lead for development of test plan, test cases, test code and actual testing responsible for defects allocation and resolution of those defects.  • Deployed applications inJBoss server.  • Protractor with Jasmine was used to create automation test suite for AngularJS code.    Environment:  Java 1.7, HTML 5, CSS 3, Bootstrap, SASS, Angular JS, jQuery, Hapi-Js, JavaScript, Node.js, JSON, XML, MySQL, MongoDB, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring JPA, PL/SQL, AWS, JMS, RESTful, JBoss, Apache Maven, Rally, Rational Rose, GIT, STS, Visual Studio Code IDE, Protractor, Jasmine, Karma, Docker, Jenkins, AWS, Quartz Scheduler Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Bayer Healthcare - Pittsburgh, PA May 2014 to March 2015 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for creation of Class Diagrams, Sequence and Activity diagrams, classes using Rational Rose and UML.  • Responsible for coding the business logic using Spring MVC.  • Used Spring AOP for cross cutting concerns like logging, security and transaction management.  • Designed and Developed Java classes, XML Mapping files and Service classes to use Hibernate API.  • Developed in creating a web interface using JSP, DHTML and HTML.  • Developed multiple formatting, validation utilities in Java, JavaScript functions and CSS.  • Developed Entity Beans and Session Beans (Stateful and Stateless) to implement the back-end business logic to register a new user and existing user related functions.  • Wrote SQL queries, stored procedures, and triggers to perform back-end database operations by using DB2 database.  • Debugged, tested and documented code fixes for production issues working with both on shore and offshore resources.  • Developed the application on Eclipse IDE to have an easy and guiding code environment.  • Implemented SVN configuration management tool for code versioning and release.  • Deployed Enterprise application using WebLogic Application Server.  • Used Maven tool for building and packaging the application.  • Unit test and writing Test scripts using JUnit Framework    Environment:  Java, J2EE, UML, Spring, Hibernate, OOAD, Eclipse, Apache Tomcat, WebLogic, HTML, XML, XSLT, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, JSP, TOAD, DB2, PL/SQL, JMS, SVN, Maven, Log4j, JUnit Software Consultant First Indian Corporation - IN April 2012 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  • Used the light weight container of the Spring MVC Frame work to provide architectural flexibility for inversion of controller (IOC).  • Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) phases such as Requirement Analysis, Design and Implementation of the project.  • Used Spring Framework for dependency injection.  • Implemented and deployed several EJB (Session and Entity).  • The front end of the project is designed on MVC architecture using struts, Tiles frameworks.  • Involved in Configuring tiles-def.xml, web.xml and struts-config.xml according to the strut framework.  • Used LOG4J for error logging at the development box and used ANT for building the deployable EAR/WAR components.  • Used WebSphere Application Server for deploying various components of application.  • EJB's were running under the hood of WebSphere container/server.  • Implemented Back office loan services and web applications using Session Façade, Service Locator, Data Access Objects, Business Delegate, MVC, Front Controller and Data Transfer Object design patterns.  • Created DB2 SQL Procedures, Functions & Stored Procedures, Nested Tables, Cursors, DB2 Packages, Reports &SQL Functions for Reports.  • Developed the application using RAD model.  • Worked with VSS Version control in order to create virtual library of computer files.    Environment:  Java1.4, JSP2.0, Servlets2.4, EJB2.0, Struts1.2, Spring 2.0.3, JDBC3.0, Design patterns, Html, XML, CSS, Log4j, Ant, Web services, RAD6.0, IBM WebSphere server6.1, IBM DB29.0, VSS. Education Bachelor's Skills Amazon web services, C++, Dtd, Gradle, Javascript, Jenkins, Middleware, Orm, Scripting, Svn, Visio, Xml, Xslt, Eclipse, Ejb, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jax, Jaxp, : J2EE, Java 1.8, UDB , Spring framework, Sybase, Spring MVC, Angular 2Hibernate, JSP, AJAX, SOA, Web Services, Microservices, XML, Ext JS, NodeJS, JQuery, JavaScript, IBM RAD 9.1, WebSphere 8.5, Agile Methodology, Design Patterns, Clear Case, Apache Maven, Docker, Angular JS, Apache Cassandra, MongoDB, JUnit, Html, Unit, XSLT, ReactJS, HTML/DHTML, JENKINS, Spark, Kafka