Sr. Full Stack Developer Sr. Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Full Stack Developer - Farmers Insurance Sacramento, CA * Good experience developing enterprise applications using spring, Hibernate, JavaBeans, Servlets, Struts, XML Mapping, Ant, Ivy and Maven.  * Strong experience in design/development of web applications using Java, JSP, J2EE, Servlets, JMS, MVC Framework, Web Services , XML, XSD, JSON, and JAXB.  * Extensive experience in designing professional UI web applications using front-end technologies like HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, XML, DHTML, XHTML, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, Angular JS, Backbone JS, Require JS, React JS and Bootstrap.  * Experience using Front-end technologies like JavaScript, Angular JS, AJAX, JQuery as well as HTML, CSS, and CFML.  * Experience with Hibernate Persistence Framework and Design patterns like Singleton, Factory, Session Facade, Business Delegate, Data Access Object, Data Transfer Object.  * Implemented several design patterns such as MVC, Business Delegate, Service Locator, DAO, DTO, Singleton, Object Factory and Front Controller.  * Extensive experience in Web application development using - HTML, CSS, JHTML, JavaScript, Ajax, AngularJS, D3.Js, ExtJS, Applets, AWT, RMI, XML, XSD, XSTL, UML.  * Experience with Node JS along mean stack applications using Mongo DB, Ext Js and Angular Js  * Experience as GUI developer using JSP, Ajax, JQuery.  * Experience in developing components using Enterprise Java Beans over Application servers and platforms such as WebSphere.  * Strong exposure working with J2EE design patterns like MVC, Front Controller, and Factory Design pattern, Value Object, Singleton and Proxy Design Pattern.  * Good experience with Java OOPS concepts like Multithreading, Collections and Exception Handling.  * Strong experience in RDBMS technologies like SQL, Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions.  * Engineering web development, multi-tier applications, acting as all players from Database to user interfaces.  * Experience in building web applications using SPRING framework features like MVC (Model View Controller), AOP (Aspect Oriented Programming), DAO (Data Access Object), Spring Boot, Spring Security, Spring Batch.  * Experience with servers like WebLogic and WebSphere.  * Experience in designing Low Level and High Level design documents  * Experience in deploying and configuring multi-tier enterprise applications on multiple servers such as Web logic Server, JBoss, WebSphere and Tomcat, BEA WebLogic.  * Experienced in writing applications in Maven, ANT and deploying them on to servers.  * Extensive experience of working with RDBMS like Oracle 11g/12 c, MySQL, SQL Server and developing Stored Procedures, Triggers, Views, Functions and SQL Queries.  * Experience of working with RAD, WSAD 5.0, Spring Tool Suite, JDeveloper, Eclipse, NetBeans,  * Experience in designing UML diagrams using Rational Rose and Microsoft Visio.  * Experienced in using Log4j and good expertise in application build tools like ANT, Gradle and Maven.  * Experience in the use of Defect Tracking & Version Management Tools such as SVN, CVS, GIT.  * Experienced in Unit Testing and generating of Test cases for web applications.  * Experience with unit testing the applications using Junit and JMeter.  * Worked on continuous integration using Jenkins/Hudson.  * A resourceful team player with good inter-personal skills, effective problem - solving and decision-making skills, looking for a satisfying career in a fair working environment with opportunities for growth. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Full Stack Developer Farmers Insurance - Sacramento, CA March 2017 to Present Project Description: Multicar Insurance is a web based project designed and developed for insurance agents. The agents will issue policy through this application for their customers. Eligibility of the customers is decided based on the past records which are automatically populated by the program. If the customer is an existing customer, then the existing rules apply. If the customer is a new customer, then future business rules will apply. Agents can check the status of their customers and their current policy rules. Once policy number is auto generated, then the policy details are issued to the customer.  Responsibilities:    * Worked as a Full-Stack developer in Struts to Spring migration project (customer service application).  * Good experience in developing web Applications using Spring MVC framework implementing Controllers, spring Forms, Spring Validation Framework and Spring Tag Libraries.  * Expertise in converting XSL to JSP'S and implemented Tiles configuration.  * Experience working on Web Logic and Jetty servers to deploy and debug the application.  * Implemented WASAPI technique to reduce the threat of software vulnerabilities with cross-site scripting, cross site request forgery, click Jacking.  * Designed and developed Application based on JSF framework using MVC design patterns.  * Involved in Implementation and Unit testing of the product  * The application flow is designed and developed using JSF, spring framework and Tiles  * Designed and developed the UI using Struts view component, JSP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript  * JSP Content is configured in XML Files.  * Implemented session beans using EJB 3.0.  * Deployed the web components into the web Sphere application server.  * Designed and developed various modules of the application with J2EE design architecture, Spring MVC architecture and Spring Bean Factory using IOC, AOP concepts.  * Used JavaScript, jQuery for user interactions in pages. Creating a responsive web application integrating Twitter Bootstrap with Angular JS and media queries.  * Designed Prototype and project layout skeletons using ReactJS, JQuery and CSS/LESS and HTML5.  * Implemented features like logging, user session validation using Spring-AOP module  * Developed server-side services using Java5.0, Spring 2.5, Web Services (SOAP, WSDL)  * Wrote application front end with HTML, JSP, Ajax JQuery, Spring Web Flow, XHTML, DHTML and CSS  * Hibernate is used as persistent at middle tire for providing object model over relational data model  * Code Reviews, customization and maintenance of code across applications  * Hands-on experience with control tools like CVS, SVN, VSS (Visual SourceSafe) and data modeling.  * Using CVS version control tools to manage source repository  * Creating environment for user-acceptance testing and facilitating Integration and User Acceptance Testing with JUNIT  * Invoked Webservices to generate Java classes from XML schema.  * Exposed and consumed SOAP based Web Services to communicate between systems.  * Good experience in developing the multi-threaded applications  * Responsible for release of code into production and its integration with other Applications  * Identifying and developing test cases and test scripts to perform load tests for Performance and regression testing  * Developed build Scripts using Maven to build and deploy the application  * Used Wireshark to know the communication between local and remote machine. Captured local TCP protocols to know the number of round trips, in order to improve the performance.  * Used various jQuery and Bootstrap plug-in like date picker, Bootstrap selectors.  * Used WinScp to copy the files between remote and local machines.  * Worked on VuGen, to validate the xml scripts and to perform smoke test.  * Worked on performance center environment to run the scripts and to collect the load runner results, also involved in monitoring the CPU utilization and memory utilization by load generators and validating performance tuning results.  * Used HP Load Runner, to modify the load runner results, and to analyze the graphs generated.  * Worked on Axman, to generate the graphs and to compare the results taken from the log files.  * Used Putty, to check the server instances and log files.  * Wrote ANT scripts to automatically save files from remote to local machine.  * Worked on MySQL statement caching and database connectors  Environment: Java, J2EE, JDK 1.7/1.8, RCP, JBOSS, AWS SDK, Ext JS, Git, Swing, JFC, Perl 5.6, Spring 4.x, AWS SNS/SQS, hibernate4.x, Core Java, SOAP/Rest, Web Services, Python 2.7, JavaScript, UML, Web Services, HTML5,CSS, SASS, RAD 7, WAS 8 WSDL, SDK's, JIRA 5.x/6.x, JAXB, Linux, JAX-WS, JAX RPC, JMS, JSF, UNIX, Ruby1.9.3, AKKA, NOSQL(MongoDB), Angular JS, NodeJs, ReactJS, AJAX, Apache JMeter, JQuery, JUnit, Maven, Oracle 10g. Sr. Full Stack Developer Prudential Financial Services - Newark, NJ October 2015 to March 2017 Project Description: A financial services company that offers personal and business checking and savings accounts, lending, credit cards, CDs, lines of credit, IRAs, letters of credit, and bill paying services. It also offers commercial, consumer loans and other assets on behalf of wealthy clients. Its investment management businesses include asset management and mutual funds. Other lines include a national real estate brokerage franchise, relocation services, and group life and disability coverage.    Responsibilities:  • As a Senior J2EE Developer assisted my team in developing two different Web-based applications  • Designed and developed the application using AGILE-SCRUM methodology.  • Used HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery, AJAX, CSS, and Bootstrap as data and presentation.  • Developing & Customizing UI JavaScript Plug-in using JQuery and JSON.  • Created Mock-up designs and developed various functionalities with JavaScript and JQuery.  • Developed Model pop-ups with Angular JS for responsive web design on mobile devices.  • Wrote Rest services to feed data to an application with AngularJS framework.  • Developed a core component of Analytics with Node JS, Backbone JS.  • Developed user interface using JSP with JavaBeans, JSTL and Custom Tag Libraries, Javascript, CSS, JQuery, Node JS, HTML, SASS and Ajax to speed the application.  • Used Web Services using SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and JAX-WS programming model.  • Involved in implementation of enterprise integration with Web Services and Legacy Systems using SOAP and REST (Using Axis and Jersey frameworks).  • Designed and developed Micro-Services using (MEAN Stack) node.js, Mongo DB.  • Developed web services using SOAP, WSDL and Apache Axis, which helped communicating through different modules of the application.  • Involved in creating Restful web services using JAX-RS and JERSY tool.  • Involved in J2EE Design Patterns such as Data Transfer Object (DTO), DAO, Value Object and Template.  • Primarily focused on the spring components such as Spring MVC, Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers, Model and View Objects, View Resolver.  • Used Spring IOC, AOP, Spring Batch modules to integrate with the application.  • Generated DAO's to map with database tables using Hibernate.  • Developed a multi-user web application using JSP, Servlet, JDBC, Spring and Hibernate framework to provide the needed functionality.  • Analyze, debug and fix issues related to thread locking, clustering, network connections, Swing client performance on customer's production environment  • Designed Interactive GUIs using Java Applets and Swing/JCF  • Developed Spring Beans and configured Spring using applicationContext.xml.  • Developing the web application using Core Java concepts like Collections, OO concepts, Exception handling for developing application modules  • Assisted Database Developers using PL/SQL for managing data associated with the tables in Oracle.  • Managed and maintained No SQL (Cassandra) databases in production domain.  • Uses Second Level Cache to enhance performance and Proper Memory Management.  • Developed application using JMS for sending and receiving Point-to-Point JMS Queue messages.  • Used Apache CXF as the Web Services framework to implement the REST APIs involved.  • Database development required creation of new tables, SQL stored procedures, functions, views, indexes and constraints, triggers and required SQL tuning to reduce the response time in the application.  • Used Maven for generating system builds and Jenkins for continuous integration.  • Created WAR files from Maven and deployed them on Tomcat.  • Worked on Drools Rules Engine and Expectation Rule Engine for writing Business Rule Validation  • Wrote unit-testing codes using JUnit, resolved bugs and other defects using Firebug.  • Wrote JUNIT Test cases for Spring Controllers and Web Service Clients in Service Layer using Junit.  • Used Log 4j for debugging, testing and maintaining the system state.  • Using JIRA to manage the issues/project work flow.  Environment: Spring, Hibernate, Web services, JAX-RS, JUNIT, SOAP, UI, SQL, JSP, JDBC, JSON, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Html, CSS, Angular JS, PL/SQL, Maven, log4j, Jenkins, JIRA, JMS, APACHE AXIS, Apache CXF, GIT, UNIX, AGILE-SCRUM, Oracle, Tomcat, Drools. Java/J2EE Developer Credit Suisse - Raleigh, NC March 2013 to September 2015 Project Description: The Model Risk Management Program is Credit Suisse's response to the Fed's interagency guidance document on Model Risk Management (SR11-7).The main purpose the AMRIT application is to establish firm-wide model risk governance, which will be compliant with SR11-7 by design, which removes the need for each area to conduct a laborious self-assessment against SR11-7. The Model Risk Management Program's key features are to create a central inventory, sourcing Provider feed interfaces from different source systems of models and include links from existing systems to avoid users re-entering model information as well as new models which will be entered into the system by model owners. Manage model risk alongside other risk types (credit risk, market risk and operational risk) that can be achieved by conducting a model risk assessment of all models and based on overall model risk score assigning a model risk rating (High, Medium, Low).  Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Designed and developed the UI using JSP, HTML, HTML5, CSS and JavaScript, AJAX, JSON.  • Generated Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Developed the applications using Java, J2EE, JDBC  • Worked on various use cases in development using Struts and testing the functionalities.  • Involved in preparing the High Level and Detail level design of the system using J2EE.  • Implemented the database connectivity using JDBC with Oracle 9i database as backend.  • Involved in the development of model, library, struts and form classes (MVC).  • Worked on core java, using file operations to read system file (downloads) and to present on JSP.  • Used PL/SQL stored procedures for applications that needed to execute as part of a scheduling mechanisms.  • Developed SOAP based XML web services.  • Worked with high volume and complex PL/SQL stored procedures and packages using TOAD.  • Used different patterns like SOA, MVC pattern, DAO pattern, and singleton.  • Directly worked with Business Analysts and SMEs to gather requirements from the customer  • Developed Stored Procedures, triggered stored procedures using Hibernate in secondary project, involved in developing Programmatic transactions using Hibernate.  • Utilized DOM, SAX parser technologies in implementing XML parsing framework.  • Worked on integration modules, BPEL business objects, Business Rules, Invoking Human tasks, deploying into WebSphere Process Server and tested using Business Process Choreographer.  • Experience with eclipse plug-ins like Find Bugs, Check Style  • Extensively worked on uploading files into CLOB and BLOB's of Oracle Data base.  • Experience in Updating, Modifying queries in Oracle 10g.  • Apache Ant was used for the entire build process.  • Used Rational Clear Case for version control and JUnit for unit testing.  • Used quartz scheduler to process or trigger the applications on a daily basis.  • Configured JBOSS Application server and deployed the web components.  • Provided troubleshooting and error handling support in multiple projects.    Environment: Struts, Hibernate, Spring, EJB, JSP, Servlets, JMS, XML, SOAP, WSDL, JDBC, JavaScript, UML, HTML, JNDI, CVS, Log4J, RAD 7, Windows XP, Web Sphere App server, WebLogic, Rational Rose, Oracle. Java/J2EE Developer SEI Corp - Oaks, PA October 2011 to March 2013 Project Description: SEI is a leading global provider of outsourced asset management, investment processing and investment operation solutions. The Goal of this project was to help corporations, financial institutions, financial advisors and affluent families to create and manage wealth involved in developing Securities and Trading applications.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the loan details Presentation module.  • Involved in designing of the BOA Loan Assist entry framework using J2EE guidelines and different J2EE design patterns with JSP, Controller Servlets and EJB in picture.  • Involved in the implementation of the Service Locator, Business Delegate and the Session Façade design pattern for the enterprises level functionality.  • Used JavaScript, for the client end data validations  • Involved in JUnit testing and used JProbe to quickly pinpoint and repair the root cause of application code performance and stability problems that obstruct component and integration integrity.  • Developed the Stateless Session bean for processing the business logic.  • Developed numerous Transfer objects using the DTO design pattern for inter-tier communication.  • Implemented Struts framework (Action and Controller classes) for dispatching request to appropriate class.  • Used Struts Validation framework for validation of user input as per the business logic and initial data loading.  • Used JSF for automatic synchronize UI components.  • Logging, Exception handling and validations to IOMS and IOMS Payoff application using AOP module of Spring.  • Used JSF for navigation handling and duplicate button press problem.  • Used Pojo to develop custom dojo widgets for Color chooser and others.  • Used Dojo Widget Library Dijit like Tree, Back button, Calendar, List box, Validation text box, Text area, to create form, validation and for specialized input.  • Designed and delivered innovative transparent cryptography layer for Dojo SQL using AES 256-bit encryption, protecting stolen laptops from having their offline data compromised.  • Written SQL, PL/SQL queries. And used DB2 stored procedure, functions, triggers, cursors, objects, sequences etc.  • Used Crystal Report tools to generate data sources.  • Application development using N-tiered client/server development.  • Implemented Rational Unified Process (RUP) for software development process  • Develop Message Driven Beans (MDB) & involved in building and accessing a web Services using SOAP over JMS.  • Developing a mechanism for sending and receiving SOAP messages over JMS by MQ Series Engine  • Developed Web Services using Apache AXIS2 tool Framework.  • Generated WSDL files using AXIS2 tool.  • Implemented Web Services using SOAP protocol, UDDI, WSDL and Service oriented Architecture (SOA) Concept.  • Written JUnit test cases for Business Objects, and prepared code documentation for future reference and upgrades.  • Written build xml file for ANT scripting.  • Used IBM Rational Clear Case(software configuration management (SCM)) for version control, workspace management, parallel development support and build auditing to improve productivity  • Deployed applications using Web Logic Application Server  • Implemented open source log4j logging framework in whole application.  • Used CVS as a version controlling tool for managing the module developments.    Environment: JAVA, J2EE, Servlets 2.4, EJB 2.0, JDBC 2.0, JAXB, Struts 2.0, JSF components, DAO, HTML, Java Script, XML, CSS, Ajax, Web Sphere Application server, LDAP, Oracle 10g, Log4J, Eclipse 3.1, CVS, DOJO, Ant 1.5, SOA, SOAP, DB2, PL/SQL, SQL, Web Services-WSDL, SOAP, UDDI, SOAP UI, JAX_RS, JERSEY, Windows XP. Java Developer Symphony Teleca - IN July 2010 to September 2011 Project Description: Symphony Teleca Corporation makes enterprises leverage the global economy to gain competitive advantage. It combines core competencies in complex analytics and software engineering with deep domain knowledge and process expertise to deliver measurable value to clients. The company's three service lines offer end-to-end solutions across vertical markets and functions: Commercial Software Solutions delivers increased productivity and faster time-to-market for software products; Market Analytics Solutions enables better decisions, more predictable results and opportunities to increase revenue and Spend Management Solutions provides indirect expense insight and visibility for optimized performance.    Responsibilities:  • Participated in system design, planning, estimation and implementation.  • Involved in developing Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams and process flow diagrams for the modules using UML and Rational Rose.  • Developed the presentation layer using JSP, AJAX, HTML, XHTML, CSS and client validations using JavaScript.  • Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural Pattern using Spring Framework.  • Effective usage of J2EE Design Patterns namely Session Facade, Factory Method, Command and Singleton to develop various base framework components in the application.  • Modified Account View functionality to enable display of blocked accounts details that have tags. This involved modifying beans, JSP changes and middle tier enhancements.  • Developed various EJBs (session and entity beans) for handling business logic.  • Code implementation using java & groovy, re-factoring & peer review  • Developed Session Beans and DAO classes for Accounts and other Modules.  • Extensively used Spring JDBC in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Worked on generating the web services classes by using WSDL, UDDI and SOAP.  • Consumed Web Services using WSDL, SOAP and UDDI from third party for authorizing payments to/from customers.  • Used JAXB API to bind XML Schema to java classes.  • Involved in Units integration using JUnit, bug fixing, and User acceptance testing with test cases.  • Used CVS for version control and Maven as a build tool.  • Used Log4j for logging errors, messages and performance logs.  • Used JBoss Application Server to deploy application.    Environment: Java 1.4, JSP, Servlets, Struts frame work, Tag libraries, Java Script, CSS, AJAX, JDBC, JNDI, Oracle 8i, Java beans, Struts Validation framework, Windows/UNIX, Ant, JUNIT, SVN, QC, Edit Plus, Web Logic application server, SQL Developer. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science and Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering KL University Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Languages Java, SQL & PL/SQL  Java Technologies  Core Java, Collections, JDBC , Multi-threading, AWT, JSP, Servlets, JSTL, JNDI, Ajax, EJB, JMS, Java Beans, Custom Tags, , RMI, JCAPS, Design Patterns    Frameworks Spring, Struts, Hibernate  Application Server IBM WebSphere, Apache Tomcat, Glass Fish, JBoss, WebLogic , TPT, CXL.  Web services SOAP, WSDL(JAX-WS), UDDI,REST(JAX-RS), APACHE CXF, AXIS, XFire  Web-Application Tools XML, XSD, JMS, Servlets, JSTL, EL, Custom Tag Library, JSP, JSF, JNDI, JPA, JAXB  Database DB2, Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL, PostgreSQL, Squirrel, Stored Procedures  Scripting Language HTML5, XML(SAX, DOM), XSL/XSLT, XPATH, Java Script, JQuery, Ajax, EXT JS, Angular JS  Core Expertise  Java GOF and J2EE design patterns, Core Java concepts - Collections, Java 1.5 features, Multi-threading, Exception handling, IO, Concurrency etc.    Version control Tools CA Harvest, CVS, SVN, IBM clear case  Build Tools Ant, Maven, Jenkins, Cruise Control  Other Tools Log4J, TOAD, SQL developer, HP Quality Center, JIRA, EMMA, Autopsy's, SOAP UI, FileZilla, Putty, Edit Plus  IDEs Spring Tool Suite, Maven, Eclipse IDE, NetBeans, RAD, WSAD, JBuilder, JDeveloper, Visual Studio.NET, Toad, Putty, JUnit, Log4j.  Logging Frameworks Log4j, Java Logging API, SLF4J  Testing Tools Junit, JMeter, Quality Center, SOAPUI  UML Tools Rational Rose, MS Visio  Operating Systems Wi00ndows, UNIX/Linux