Data Engineering Fellow Data Engineering Fellow Data Engineering Fellow - Insight Data Science Woodside, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Data Engineering Fellow Insight Data Science June 2019 to Present Worked on reddit data-sets from Google storage to perform bot detection and its analytics using 2TB of data  for tracking and visualizing bot activities from 2015 to 2019.  ? Designed and orchestrated data pipeline from S3 bucket(source) to Postgres server storage for Tableau visualization  with Spark as a tool for bot detection in between S3 and Postgres server.  City College of New York Data Engineering Fellow New York, NY 2019 to Present Analyzed tweets 100million tweets across 500 cities in United States to mine the drug related tweets  ? Used probabilistic data structure (Bloom filter) to store the keyword for drug name or drug related slang so that bigrams  from tweets were checked against the drug-related keyword with error of about 10% Teaching Assistant City College of New York - New York, NY August 2018 to May 2019 Responsible for grading assignments, class participation, and exams evaluating about 120 undergraduate students  each semester using C language and Linux OS and python in Engineering 101. Software Engineer Deerwalk, Inc - Kathmandu, NP September 2015 to July 2016 Worked as a part of Extract Transform Load(ETL) team on scrubbed health insurance data sets to perform advanced  user level analytics on behalf of insurance company to facilitate user eligibility period and cost coverage  ? Implement complex analytics of data and write on elasticsearch cluster thereby enabling lightweight and fast query on elasticsearch server for quick patient report generation on the front end.  ? Used Hadoop and Java using Cascading API and python to process the data and stored in HDFS file system  and index and write to elasticsearch.  ? Built streaming jobs for real time data analytics using Apache spark specifically pyspark.  ? Automate Spark jobs for sequential execution of the batch jobs in DAG model using python and bash scripts Java Developer Three Monks Pvt. Ltd - Kathmandu, NP June 2013 to September 2015 Worked on web API development for service rendering to facilitate financial transaction in consistency with IS08583 data format to link up mobile app to banking transaction  ? Used Java with Spring framework and Hibernate framework for web application and API development for enabling mobile apps for online banking. Education Master of Science in Computer Science The City College of New York May 2019 Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics and Communications Tribhuvan University May 2013 Skills CASCADING API, HADOOP, API, C++, Hadoop, HTML, PYTHON, PYSPARK, ECLIPSE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, LINUX, TABLEAU, MYSQL, SQL, SCALA, MAVEN, FRAMEWORKS, CSS Links http://linkedin.com/in/prajwalfc