Java Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Full Stack Developer - JP MORGAN CHASE Jersey City, NJ • Information Technology professional with 7 years of experience in Web Development, Enterprise Software development and complex Client/Server Implementation, Implementation of J2EE Technologies in Banking, Health and Insurance domains.  • Diverse experience utilizing Java tools in business, Web, and client-server environments including Java J2EE, Java multi-threading, Java Server Pages (JSP), Java Servlets, Struts, spring, Hibernate and Java database Connectivity (JDBC) technologies.  • Expertise in application development using MVC architecture with JAVA, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Web services, Apache Tomcat server, Oracle under Windows.  • Good Knowledge in Agile/Scrum development environment with frequently changing requirements and actively participated in scrum meetings, sprint reviews and PBR's (Product Backlog Refinements).  • Hands-on experience in the Spring Framework, Spring Boot, Microservices, Spring Core (IOC Container, Dependency Injection and AOP), Spring MVC, Spring Templates Spring Data Access (Transactions, JDBC, and ORM), Spring Security, Spring Scheduler and Caching.  • Experience in implementing SOA architectures with web services using WSDL, SOAP and UDDI and also implemented JSON Restful web services  • Strong development skills in Core Java, J2EE, JDBC, JSP, Servlets, Hibernate, Java Beans, EJB, XSLT, HTML, XML, CSS3, HTML5, AJAX, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular 4.  • Extensively worked on core java concepts like Multi-Threading, Inheritance, Abstraction, Encapsulation, Polymorphism, Exception handling, and Collections Framework.  • Proficient in implementing Java 8 concepts like Lambda Expressions, Functional Interface, Default Methods, Streams, Date/Time API changes.  • Experience in working with Relational Databases like Oracle, MySQL, DB2, MS SQL Server using SQL, PL/SQL and NoSQL databases such as Redis, MongoDB & Cassandra.  • Experience using jQuery, Bootstrap and Angular 5 for changing styles dynamically, creating animating effects and manipulating DOM structures.  • Experience with Object Oriented Design and Object-Oriented Analysis, Complete System Life Cycle, UML and associated tools such as Rational Rose.  • Expertise in writing JUnit Test Cases for unit testing to achieve required coverage and write BDD using Mockito and Easy mock framework.  • Hands on experience in using IDE tools like Eclipse, IntelliJ IDEA, JBuilder, NetBeans, WSAD and My Eclipse.  • Expertise in develop build and deployment scripts using ANT and MAVEN as build tools in Jenkins REST API move from one environment to other environments  • Extensive knowledge on GitHub to maintain the version of the files and took the responsibility to do the code merges from branch to trunk.  • Highly motivated self-starter with Excellent Communication, Presentation and Problem-Solving Skills and committed to learning new technologies.  • Excellent written and verbal communication skills, Analytical, Problem Solving skills, strict attention to detail and ability to work independently, work within a team environment. Work Experience Java Full Stack Developer JP MORGAN CHASE - Jersey City, NJ September 2018 to Present Description:  The project involves in enhancement of web-based online banking services to customers. It gives customers a secure and easy access to online application which includes creating new accounts, monthly statements, account balances, transfer funds and more.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software development life cycle such as requirements gathering, modeling, analysis, design and development.  • Participate and facilitate in all the agile ceremonies like Daily video stand-ups, APO demo, retrospectives, and iteration planning and product backlog enhancement.  • Designed and implemented a database migration to centralize multiple local MySQL database instances to a single Amazon Aurora S3 instance.  • Configured & deployed Java applications on Amazon Web Services (AWS) for a multitude of applications utilizing the AWS stack, cloud formation.  • Developed UI using HTML5, CSS3, Angular 5 for interactive cross browser functionality and complex user interface.  • Extensively used core Java concepts like Multi-threading, Collections, File I/O and concurrency.  • Used Microservices architecture, with Spring Boot based services interacting through a combination of REST, Spring Boot, Spring MVC and Spring Cloud.  • Created RFP Microservice to provide RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Micro services.  • Involved in producing and consuming Restful Webservices using JAX-RS and Jersey Framework.  • Designed and documented REST APIs, including JSON data formats and API versioning strategy and Validated Restful API services.  • Processed the JSON requests according to different types of modules, actions, and request data.  • Hibernate Framework was used to interact with databases, object relational mappings, cache management and specifying the business rules.  • Used Continuous delivery / Continuous Integration (CD/CI) tools Jenkins and UDeploy to deploy this application to AWS.  • Created Docker file and automated docker image creation using Jenkins and Docker.  • Created Docker images using a Docker file. Worked on Docker container snapshots, removing images and managing docker volumes.  • Implemented all the components following test-driven development (TDD) methodology using JUnit.  • Test coverage is done by using Junit, Mockito and Selenium for automatic testing.  • Maven and its repository tools were used to build the project and manage the dependencies using POM XML.  • Ensured JIRA capture add-on and configure JIRA capture tool for exploratory testing, easy creation of issue with browser extension by pre-filling templates  • Used GitHub to maintain the version of the files and took the responsibility to do the code merges from branch to trunk and creating new branch when new feature implementation starts.  • Developed Log4j logs to record the application events to provide the debugging, monitoring and auditing capabilities to the application.  Environment: Java 8, Microservices, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Hibernate, REST/JSON Web service, REST, JMX, ANT, Angular 4, Java Script, AJAX, JSP, HTML, Maven, JUnit, GitHub, JIRA, AWS, Bamboo, Concurrency, Multi-threading, Memory Model. Senior Java Developer Verizon Wireless - Dallas, TX February 2018 to August 2018 Description:  Verizon Wireless is an American telecommunications company which offers wireless products and services. Verizon Wireless is the largest wireless telecommunications provider in the United States. The application gives customers complete control to manage the account, plan and access Verizon rewards and monitor the data. It keeps customers alerted with the usage and other notifications.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in daily Scrum meetings, Sprint planning and estimation of the tasks for the user stories, participated in retrospective and presenting Demo at end of the sprint. Communication with external teams, verbally and written on a daily basis  • Created Single Page Application (SPA) which can data bind and synchronize server with Angular 4 framework.  • Developed user interfaces using JavaScript, jQuery, HTML, XHTML, CSS custom tags, Node.JS.  • Worked with Passport and JSON web tokens for authentication and authorization security configurations using Node.js.  • Extensively used MVC, Factory, Delegate and Singleton design patterns.  • Diverse experience utilizing Java tools in business, Web and client-server environments including Java J2EE, Java multi-threading, Java Server Pages (JSP), Java Servlets, Struts, spring, Hibernate and Java database Connectivity (JDBC) technologies.  • Extensively used various modules in Spring like AOP, DI(IOC), Bean Autowiring, Spring Inheritance, Auto Wiring, Spring JDBC Templates and Spring Quartz Schedulers for Jobs.  • Developed presentation, business, service and persistence layer components over J2EE using, Spring IOC (Dependency Injection).  • Developed web services and responsible for creating web services using Restful and SOAP with HTTP protocol.  • Implemented Swagger framework for Restful web services documentation. Used Swagger annotations to generate Swagger documentation.  • Building RESTful APIs in front of different types of NoSQL storage engines allowing other groups to quickly meet their Big Data needs and remain insulated from rapid technology changes in the NoSQL field.  • Implemented multi-threading in business layer for asynchronous processing of merchant rules  • Hibernate DAO classes were developed to retrieve and save data using Spring framework manager classes.  • Experience in Creating, Dropping Indexes, Tables, Stored Procs and Views on Oracle DB.  • Involved in writing SQL and Stored Procedures for handling complex queries with help of TOAD and access them through java Programs from Oracle Database.  • Selenium's playback tool feature for authoring tests has been used in executing more than 100 test cases.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration in which all development work is integrated and involved in deploying the application using Docker to AWS environment.  • Worked in Agile TDD environment using SDLC tools like GIT, Jira, Jenkins, and Maven for build packaging and deployments of the application components.  Environment: Java 1.8, Agile(SCRUM), HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, NodeJS, jQuery, Ajax, Bootstrap, Angular 4, Micro Services, Hibernate, Spring, MongoDB, Spring Batch, Spring Boot, Spring Security, XML, GIT, JSP, Spring MVC, JDBC, Mockito, JUnit, Maven, Selenium, Restful, Java Server Pages, JIRA, Spring Security, Jenkins. Java Developer Vecna Technologies - Cambridge, MA August 2016 to November 2017 Description:  Vecna Medical's patient self-service products include a Patient Portal, Patient Kiosk, and Patient Queuing.  The Patient Portal is an online application where patients use to complete administrative tasks such as scheduling appointments, registering for appointments, paying bills, and exchanging secure messages with providers.  Patients can also view their clinical information such as lab results, medication.  Responsibilities:  • Used Agile SCRUM process with Test Driven Development process form development phase to testing phase.  • Designed the sequence diagrams and class diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Developed the presentation layer using HTML, DHTML, CSS, JSP, JSTL, Ajax, JavaScript, Web services, Servlets.  • Taken care of java multithreading in common java classes / library. Used multithreading in programming to improve overall performance.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST API's.  • Provided non-breaking solutions on existing REST services, sometimes by versioning new APIs. Called the RESTful web services to get the JSON object (Response) and manipulated the JSON Object to display the response in the webpage.  • Implemented RESTful web-services for every functionality related to the site such as registration, login using Node JS (with Express JS framework) as the server-side programming language.  • Used Hibernate to develop the persistent layer for Order Viewing component.  • Used J2EE Design Patterns (Singleton Pattern, Factory Pattern, and Business Delegate Pattern) for Middle Tier Development.  • Involved in development using struts components - action mappings in struts-config.xml, tiles, Form Beans, Action classes for handling the Http requests from the front-end components, Backend, plug-ins in Struts architecture  • Worked on Mongo DB database ideas, for example, locking, lists, sharing, replication, pattern.  Environment: Java1.7/J2EE, Struts Framework 2.0, Angular JS 2, AJAX, Eclipse IDE, Java Beans, MongoDB, Oracle 10g, Spring 3.0,Core java, Web Services, JAX-WS, Hibernate 3.0, GIT, Node JS, JPA, HTML/HTML5, CSS, XSLT, JavaScript, Maven, UNIX. Java Developer Prudential Financial - Roseland, NJ August 2014 to July 2016 Description:  Prudential Financial is an insurance, investment management, and other financial products and services to both retail and institutional customers throughout the United States and in over 30 other countries. It provides these products and services to individual and institutional customers through distribution networks in the financial services industry.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in all project phase discussions and executed project from PDP (predefined phase) to rollout phase with post implementation activities.  • Involved in creation of web services, WSDL and web methods with Annotation in Hibernate, Implemented Web Services in JAXP based on SOAP protocols using XML and XSLT.  • Used Spring JDBC to write some DAO classes to interact with the database.  • Using JavaScript, HTML, CSS, jQuery and Bootstrap and AJAX designed and developed user-friendly interface.  • Bootstrap framework has been extensively used and multiple UI components have also been developed. Developed and fully responsive UI pages using media queries.  • Used Oracle as Database and used Toad for queries execution and also involved in writing SQL scripts, PL/SQL code for procedures and functions.  • Worked in testing and performed unit testing and execution testing using JUNIT with Jasmine.  • Used SVN for version control, used SharePoint for work Tasks.  Environment: JAVA, J2EE, JSP, Spring IOC, Hibernate3.0, Oracle, HTML, jQuery, Servlets, JDBC, PL/SQL, Struts MVC Web Sphere 6.0, Oracle 10g, Toad, My Eclipse, and SVN. Junior Java Engineer 3i-Infotech Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2012 to June 2014 India    Description:  AMlock is the Anti Money laundering and fraud detection application which is developed for banks and financial institutions enables them to process the transactions either in real time or offline basis and also checks for the abnormal behavior of the customer. It helps banks to identify if the transactions are illegal and harm their reputation from the view of money laundering.  Responsibilities:  • Actively participated in the complete software lifecycle of requirement gathering, design, development and implementation for various new business features.  • Developed application using JSP, HTML, CSS, Struts framework, client-side data validations using JavaScript.  • Produced GUI prototypes for business logic presentations.  • Created Stored Procedures using Pl/SQL, functions, triggers in MSSQL server and Oracle to fetch required data  • Experience in User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and Accessibility Testing.  • Worked closely with system analyst to understand the technical requirements of the projects.  • Documentation of common problems prior to go-live, and while actively in a Production Support role.  Environment: HTML, CSS, XHTML, JavaScript, Agile and Windows. Education Master's Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages Java 8.0/7.0/6.0/5.0, C, C++, PL/SQL  Java/J2EE Technologies Servlets, Spring, EJB, JPA, JDBC, JSP, JSTL, JNDI.  Frameworks Spring 4.3, Hibernate 2.0/3.0/4.x, Spring Security 3.2  Application/Web servers ApacheTomcat8, IBMWebSphere8.x/9.x, Jetty, Jenkins, WebSphere MQ  Relational Databases Oracle 10g/11g, SQL server 2012/2014/2016, MySQL 5.7, DB2 11.1  NoSQL Databases MongoDB, Cassandra  Internet Technologies HTML 5, JavaScript 1.8, XML 2.0, CSS 3 and CSS 4, jQuery 2.11, Angular 5, Node JS 6.0.  Cloud Environments Azure, AWS, Netflix Eureka, Mesos, Kubernetes.  IDE Eclipse, NetBeans 8.0.2, IntelliJ 2017.1, Spring Tool Suite (STS) 3.8.3, RAD 6.0/7.0, GITHUB 2.12.0  Operating system Windows 10, Linux Mint 18.1, Unix  Testing &Bug tracking Tools JUNIT4.12, JIRA 7.0, Bugzilla 4.4.12, Curl 7.36, Selenium, Cucumber  Methodologies Agile, waterfall, TDD (Test-Driven-Development), Scrum  Build Tools Ant 1.10, Maven 3.3.9, Gradle 3.4.1  Web Services SOAP 1.2, REST 2.0, JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, Apache Axis