Appian BPM Consultant Appian BPM Consultant Appian BPM Consultant - Bank Of The Appian BPM Developer with 6+ years of overall experience in Software Design, Development, Maintenance and Deployment, Analytics, Design and Development of Software applications in Web-based and Client Server Environment.  ? Experience in analysis, design, development, testing, deployment and maintenance of applications in JAVA/J2EE/XML/BPM applications using Appian 19.3, 16.2, 16.3, 17.1, 17.X, 18.Xand Linux/Unix based environment.  ? Sound knowledge and experience of design and development of process model, UI screen design (Tempo forms), Rules, SAIL (Self-Assembling Interface Layer) Interface, Appian Reports, Data Management, Document management, expression rules.  ? Strong understanding of database language SQL, PL/SQL Expertise in programming J2EE, (EJB, Servlets, JSP), PHP, XML/XSLT, Struts 1.0, Struts 2.0, Java Beans, Spring MVC, Hibernate 3.0, JDBC and Junit Framework, Appian.  ? Strong understanding of capturing proper business workflow requirements, solution specification in BPM development processes in all phases of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle: Requirements Analysis, Design, Development, Build, Testing and Maintenance).  ? Knowledge of Appian best practices and design principals  ? Implemented Custom components using JavaScript, jQuery, CSS and AJAX.  ? Implemented business rules by using Decision Rules, Declarative Rules.  ? Experience in using Services and Connectors - SOAP Services, Connect-SOAP, JMS, and Connect-SQL to integrate with external systems.  ? Expertise in development of rich application using SAIL.  ? Involved in validations, Flows and Process Modular design using Appian.  ? Extensively applied Unit Testing for the application using JUnit framework.  ? Experience with various integrated development environment (IDE) like Eclipse and NetBeans.  ? Expertise with Report definitions, List view reports and Summary view reports.  ? Conducted Detailed Analysis to support designing and development of BPM applications. - Work Experience Appian BPM Consultant Bank Of The - West, California, US May 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Actively interacted with the product owner and business analysts to obtain the requirements.  ? Hands on coding and development experience on Appian BPM platform.  ? Created BPM workflows in Appian using the process modeler.  ? Acted as a bridge source between business analysts and the development team to clarify the requirements.  ? Created dynamic SAIL code for reusable Interfaces for the clients to create events.  ? Created relevant Process Models to help facilitate the flow of the application.  ? Created Expression Rules that restricts the data entered from user end as per the Business Requirements.  ? Built Model Risk Tool application with SAIL, a functional Java-based proprietary programming language that the internal risk team uses to effectively manage and govern inventories of financial models and issues.  ? Developed Rules for validation and integration pertained to Rule-Connect- and Rule-Service.  ? Involved in Requirement Gathering from the Business Users.  ? Design the solution to meet user's requirement.  ? Responsible for Analysis, Design & Development. Create new process models for functionality.  ? Responsible for building custom SAIL Forms.  ? Managed end-to- end application support for all Appian applications deployed.  ? Create CDT's from XSD& create tables in database through data store.  ? Writing all the SQL queries to get data from database into model or store data into database.  ? Create query rules, business rules & reports for functionality.  ? Create new process models for functionality. Write JavaScript Code & CSS for the process models.  ? Create templates for Docs & generate them after mapping them in process models.  ? Report work progress & fix bugs in the code.  Environment:Appian 17.X, 18.X 19.3 Web Services, Java Script and SQL server. Appian Developer FDA - Silver Spring, MD March 2016 to February 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Served as primary interface between development team and clients throughout all phases of analysis and development.  ? Created BPM workflows in Appian using the process modeler.  ? Worked on the Implementation of system as an independent component to be supported/ integrated with Appian based BPM applications to deliver management capabilities using Appian SAIL features such as Record Types, Record dashboards, SAIL Reports, Actions and SAIL forms.  ? Implemented procedures for gathering of requirements from clients for solution demonstrations.  ? Integrating Appian BPM workflow process with external systems using Web Services.  ? Prepared detailed and accurate technical documentation relating to Appian designs and reports.  ? Executed processes for analysis, designing and development of scalable solutions to meet customer requirements.  ? Implemented procedures for designing and development of all software applications in coordination with engineering teams.  ? Participated in development of analytical and computational methods for problem solutions. Provided technical assistance for troubleshooting and resolution of workflow system problems.  ? Executed processes for analysis, designing and development of scalable solutions to meet customer requirements.  ? Participated in development of analytical and computational methods for problem solutions. Provided technical assistance for troubleshooting and resolution of workflow system problems.  Environment: Appian 19.3, 7.11,16.X versions, Web Services, Oracle, SAIL. Appian Assistant Developer Austin Technology Group - Austin, TX September 2015 to February 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Works with other business technology teams to understand requirements and patterns and ensure consistency in design across applications built on the Appian platform  ? Provided the Dashboards and to track the measure the impact of external innovation activities.  ? Design and Development of Appian applications  ? Unit Testing of application components  ? Help on-board new Appian applications in Appian platform  ? Build and deploy of applications Help Review application design and code review  ? Defect Fixing & issue resolution for the application developed.  ? Created different areas to be displayed in the form, for each user group, depending upon the contract category in the Form.  ? Involved in the diverse types of Reports, Rules and Interfaces.  ? Involved in different type of validations in the Work flow Process  ? Involved in adding the members in different type of User Groups.  Environment: Appian V7.11, 16.1, Oracle SQL Developer. Java Developer Innova InfoTech - Hyderabad, Telangana October 2013 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Developed business logic using JAVA code.  ? Designed and developed web pages, User control and Validation control to meet client requirements using Java, JSP, Servlet, HTML, JavaScript, Ajax and Spring Framework.  ? Data stored and managed in back-end using Oracle database.  ? Validated the input data on the client side using the JavaScript and displayed the error messages to the users.  ? Used IBM Web sphere Studio Application Developer for application development.  ? Packaged and deployed application on WebSphere Application Servers and automated building process.  ? Involved in development and maintenance of online application pages, jobs and reports.  ? Responsible for enhancements and customization of the application.  ? Used data conversion tools to move data from Oracle schema to another Oracle schema.  ? Used rational tools like Clear Case, Clear Quest.  ? Performed functional, regression, cross browser and installation testing.  ? Involved in the maintenance and support of the application to the end users.  Environment: Java Servlets, JSP, Java Script, XML, HTML, UML, JDBC, Apache Tomcat, JDBC, Oracle, SQL, Windows. Java Developer Intergraph - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2012 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Responsible from requirement gathering to design, development, testing and release.  ? Responsible for creating the presentation logic which was implemented in JSP, CSS.  ? Responsible for quality and fix of issues/bugs.  ? JQuery was used for the client side validations.  ? Used EJB as the entry point of the service and also handles the transactions.  ? Implemented Ajax calls in some places start background functionality, while user enters data.  ? Responsible for creating tags for each release.  ? Written procedures, functions, triggers and views.  ? Used MVC framework for the development of multitier J2EE application.  ? Used Web services (SOAP) for transmission of large blocks of XML data over HTTP.  ? Design and Modify UI and adding functionality using HTML, JSP, JQuery, Javascript.  ? Used tiles framework to design the JSP pages.  ? Database design and SQL creation as needed in project development.  Environment: JSP, Servlets, EJB, Webservices, XML Beans, Maven, XMLSchemas, Weblogic 10.3, JUnit, Spring DAO and Oracle Education Masters Computer ScienceSoftware EngineeringVirginia International University Bachelors in Electronics and Communication EngineeringUniversity State JNTUH Skills Jdbc, Mysql, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Pl/sql, Sql, Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Spring, Jboss, Servlets, Weblogic, Websphere, Mvc, Rational, Clear case, Deployment, Soap, Ui Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  BPM Tools: Appian 7.11,16.X, 17.X, 18.X  Languages: Java/J2EE  Databases: Oracle 10G, MySQL  Operating Systems: Windows XP, Windows 7, UNIX  Web Related: Servlets 2.4, JDBC 2.0, JSP2.0, Spring MVC 2.0, JDBC, J2EE 1.3/1.4, iBATIS, PL/SQL  Source Control Rational Clear Case 7.2, VSS  Deployment tools: AMT, Blade logic  Tools & Utilities: Microsoft Office, Eclipse, Introscope, Soap UI, Quality center 10.x/11.0, Toad10.0/11.0, Autosys  Application Servers: Weblogic 9.2, Websphere 7.0, JBoss 6.0