Sr. Android Developer Sr. Android <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Android Developer - Spectrum St. Louis, MO ? 8+ years of professional work experience in all aspects of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) like requirements analysis, design specification, code development, code integration, testing, and deployment using Object Oriented Analysis  ? Worked for 5 years in Android Application Development using Android Studio, Eclipse, Java/C++/C#, JSP, XML, Android SDK and ADT plug in different SDLC environments like Waterfall, Agile, and Scrum methodologies and with good knowledge about them.  ? Good knowledge of the Activity lifecycle, Fragment Life Cycle, and Android Architecture with experience with profiling, tuning, optimizing Java applications and branching, pushing& merging codes with remote repository Bit Bucket in application development.  ? Hands-on experience using design patterns such as MVP, MVC, Singleton, Adapter, Command, Observer, and Builder and experience in using Fragments, Activity workflow, Action Bar Navigation, Menu designs, view controls, Loaders, and proficient with common Android Framework API.  ? Strong skills and Knowledge in integrating third-party libraries like Dagger, Retrofit, Picasso, GSON, and ButterKnife into the gradle and using them for improving performance of the application along with Knowledge on using test and testing frameworks like AssertJ, Junit, Mockito, Roboelectric, and Espresso.  ? Worked with interfacing mobile applications with back-end server by the use of XML/JSON, REST API etc.  ? Used GIT, SVN and Bit bucket for source code version control repositories in dynamic team environment.  ? Developed applications in compliance to Material design guidelines and working with viewgroups, media, threads, services of Android, broadcast receivers, content providers.  ? Familiar using popular public APIs like Google APIs and its services, Facebook, YouTube, Paypal, Kindle, Twitter, GPS, Maps, Bluetooth, Push APNS for developing android applications.  ? Experience with Android storage mechanisms like SQLite database, Internal Storage and Shared preferences for storing the application data.  ? Worked with material design and publishing apps to Google Playstore. Has ability to debug and resolve errors in application by using logcat and various other tools like DDMS and logcat. Can also test applications on multiple devices to ensure compatibility standards. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Android Developer Spectrum - St. Louis, MO July 2015 to Present Play Store Link:  https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.mytwc.common.resource    Project Description:  Application allows the customers in the former Time Warner Cable service area to manage their account and services, review and pay bill, get detailed billing information, check and troubleshoot equipment, manage service/technician appointments and access Home Phone voicemail.    Responsibilities:  • Discussed & documented client requirements, prepared prototype and shared with the Client Manager    • Worked closely with another mobile app developer, leading other platform development in Agile methodology    • Designed interface with Design & UX team for better usability and maintained relative nativity (phones & tablets)    • Developed user-friendly User-Interfaces (UI) using widgets like Menus, Dialogs, Layouts, Buttons, & Edit boxes; created selection widgets like List View using Array Adapters & Scroll View as per client needs    • Developed the activities and UI layers using ADT and customized as per the client request    • Designed Custom Dialog, Custom Action bar, Custom Progress bar using fragment activity    • Identified the root cause of an application issues while working on Android devices    • Made Restful Service Calls using Retrofit Library at various stages in application development cycle and parsed responses back from the web servers as per the application requirement    • Consumed restful web services to fetch user profile and daily transaction details    • Identified critical/crash/hidden defects in applications using mobile apps and suggested quick fix by analyzing logs  • Implemented Fragments on the main screen, On click of each fragment takes to another tab.Implemented Parcelable Objects to send across activities  • Implemented immediate notifications and alerts using Notification bar and push notifications    • Tested the app across different versions of Android & Android phones to assure quality and performance    • Created test data for users (business, personal, commercial) and used for unit test and requirement validation    • Used different transformations for extraction, cleansing & loading data to staging areas and presentation tables    • Participated in daily stand-up meetings and involved with Scrum project estimation meeting on bi-weekly basis    Environment:Android Studio, Android SDK, Gradle, MVP, Java, RXJava, SQLite , Retrofit 2, Dagger2, TDD, JUnit. Android Developer Ernst and Young 2013 to June 2015 Play Store Link:  https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.quickmobile.ernstyoung.multievent    Project Description:  Application allows the users get access to information, tools and content required to attend EY's premier events. Specifically, this app provides access to event logistics, announcements, speaker information, agendas with detailed session information and related social media feeds. It allows the option to partake in live, interactive polling and network amongst fellow attendees.    Responsibilities:  • Worked with designing mode for different android devices.  • Designed all the GUI elements by bringing required modifications to the XML.  • Designed Screens using MVP pattern for the application with Android Studio.  • Worked on Custom UI widgets for summary.  • Used Multi-threading in implementing parallel processing.  • Implemented client side RESTful call to receive JSON based response and parsed using GSON.  • Utilized a retention fragment technique to avoid losing the AsyncTask.  • Used and implemented Shared Preferences in the app and worked with storage options in Android.  • Participated in the quality assurance of the app including, testing of the User Interface and testing the app on different mobile devices.  • Developed update patches, modules and components to fix bugs, adhere compliance & mitigate security risks.  • Configured security of the app with HTTP and SSL connection.  • Developed connection with server using Open Source libraries, Asynchronous Http Client for Android.  • Contributed in production release deployment, certifying release features, monitoring production logs and fixing production issues on demand.  • Involved in designing user-friendly tool to be used by deployment team on verifying content management in Production/Lower environments.    Environment: Android SDK, Java, XML, RESTful, JSON, MVC, Multi- threading, Android Studio, Git, GSON, Volley, Fragments, Action Bar, Custom Dialog Boxes. Android Developer Citizens Bank May 2012 to November 2013 Play Store Link:  https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.citizensbank.androidapp    Project Description:  Application allows user to check available balances and activity, pay bills, manage bills, transfer funds, etc. User can also locate the nearest ATMs and Branches. This application is available for Citizens Bank online banking customers.  Responsibilities:  • Collaborated with the UI team to design the appropriate icon and display for the screens.  • Used Logcat, DDMS (Dalvik Debug Monitor Server) and TraceView to debug and test the application on different android devices  • Implemented Intent Integrator for utilizing the Camera API to access the camera for Scanning front and back of checks.  • Used Loading Spinners while loading data.  • Responsible for consuming REST services using Retrofit, get the JSON data and parse it using Gson library.  • To implement the backend support, collaborated with Web Services team.  • Utilized AsyncTask, Thread and Handler to provide smooth UI experience.  • Worked in layouts and UX design and layout using both XML, and custom android views.  • Implemented Location Based API using Location Manager to locate the user's location.  • Used SQLite database to store user's details.  • For secured data interchange, used REST based web services and JSON parsers.  • Implemented Push Notification through Google Cloud Messaging API.  Environment:Android SDK 4.1,4.3, 4.4, Eclipse IDE, JSON, REST Web Services, XML, Google Maps, Action-BarPROGUARD, and GIT Java Developer HDFC Life Insurance - Mumbai, Maharashtra March 2009 to March 2012 Project Description:  The project included building up a Management Reporting System (MRS) to gauge the performance of banking services of the company. It helped the administration to monitor and track execution of each activity in light of various regions. MRS is a web based (internet/intranet) infrastructure utilized by the employees to enter the data based on various banking service activities. The administration can review all the data in the form of reports that gets generated. The users have different kinds of roles and based on their roles they can input or access the data.    Responsibilities:  • Created DDL, DML scripts to create tables and privileges on respective tables in the database.  • Responsible for developing Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Object Diagrams using UML.  • Collaborated on design specification reviews together with Business Analysts.  • Responsible for creating tables and adding privileges for the respective tables by developing DDL, DML scripts.  • Transferred data from CSV file to Excel file format and responsible for communicating with end client to support the application and analyzed/fixed the issue.  • Participated in the meetings with Business Analysts for reviewing design specifications.  • Used Hibernate for loading and storing objects and also utilized Log4J logging framework for logging messages.  • Implemented procedures, packages, triggers, and different Joins to retrieve the data using PL/SQL, SQL scripts.  • Involved in developing Presentation Layer using JSP, HTML, DHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript and JSTL Taglibs.  • Used Spring MVC controllers for developing custom controllers for handling the requests.  • Designed and developed server side layer using SpringIOC, SpringORM, SpringAOP.  • Developed REST web services using JAX-RS framework and created DB schema-mapping file for Hibernate by using XML and configured Hibernate mapping file.  Environment: Java, JPA/Hibernate, Spring, Web Services (REST), JAX-RS, JSTL, DDL, DDM, Multi-threading, Servlets, JSP, XHTML, CSS Education Bachelor's Skills JAVA (7 years), XML (7 years), WEB SERVICES (6 years), ANDROID (6 years), JSON (4 years), Android Studio,Android SDK, Gradle, MVP,Java, RXJava, SQLite , Retrofit 2,Dagger2,TDD,JUnit (8 years), Git, PHP, Javascript, MySQL, ASP Links https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.mytwc.common.resource Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Technologies:  Android 2.3-7.0, Java, C, J2EE (JSP 1.2/2.0,Servelets 2.2/2.3/2.4, EJB 2.0/2.1/3.0), Struts1.3/2.0, JavaBeans, JSF 1.2/2.0, Web Services, Spring2.0.x/2.5.x,Hibernate 3.0/3.1.1/3.2, JMS 1.1, JDBC 3.0, JavaScript 1.8.x, SOAP 1.2, JUnit, JSP    Programming Language C, C++, Java, C#, R (predictive analysis tool)  Scripting and Markup HTML 5, XML, XHTML, JSON,PHP, Perl, R, JavaScript, JQuery  IDE Android Studio, Eclipse, Net beans, IntelliJIDEA.  Databases Oracle 10g, SQLite, Mysql  Operating Systems Windows (2000/XP Professional, Windows 7, Windows 8), Ubuntu, Fedora, Macintosh.  UML Tools Log cat, DDMS, J Unit.