SrSalesforce Developer SrSalesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span> SrSalesforce Developer - CondeNast Dallas, TX • 8 years of overall IT experience which includes 5 years' experience in Salesforce.com CRM platform with proficiency as a Salesforce Developer & Administrator and 3 years' experience as a Java Developer.  • Extensive experience in Object Oriented Analysis, Designing and Programming skills.  • Proficient in developing Service Cloud, Financial cloud and Sales Cloud functionalities, partner and Customer portals, Salesforce CRM AppExchange applications.  • Strong experience in integration, development and customizations of Salesforce.com application using Force, Apex classes, apex triggers, Sharing rules, Page layouts, S-Controls and migration tools.  • Good knowledge in using declarative features like Validation rules, Assignment rules, Auto-response rules to satisfy complex business process automations.  • Implemented Pick lists, Dependent pick lists, Junction objects, Master detail relationships, Lookups, Validation and formula fields of the custom objects.  • Created Custom Apps, Custom Objects, Custom fields, Handling Page Layouts, Search Layouts, Related List and defining Field Dependencies, Custom buttons.  • Expertise in User and Security management using Permission sets, configuring Sharing rules, Object Level Security, Record Level Security and Field Level Security.  • In-depth understanding of Apex Data Loader, import wizard, Informatics Cloud Data Loader and data manipulation language for data migration and management in bulk.  • Good understanding of CRM Business process like Campaign management, lead management, account management and case management.  • Excellent understanding of OWD Org hierarchy and SFDC Administrative skills like creating Profiles, Roles, Users, Page layouts, Email services, Workflows, Dashboards, Relationships, Approvals, Reports, Tasks and events.  • Expert in working on Eclipse IDE with Force.com Plug-in for writing business logic in Apex programming language.  • Highly experienced in lead, case management, web-to-lead, web-to-case, email-to-case.  • Excellent knowledge on Salesforce1 mobile apps, SDFC chatter feeds and Salesforce Customer Community.  • Proficient in cross-functional teams such as Sales, Customer Service, Marketing and Salesforce validation and configuring Administrative Setup on Salesforce.com platform.  • Hands on Experience in Configuring Sandbox environments for successful production, QA testing and deployment of the applications. Experience in migration applications from Sandbox to Production using Force.com IDE and Salesforce.com change sets.  • Created Dashboards and dashboards components and implemented multiple levels of Dashboards and scheduled Dashboard refresh.  • Good understanding of workflows issues, restart workflows, reset workflows, reset data fields, testing and fixing the validation rules.  • Experience in Integrating Salesforce.com with other internal/external applications using SOAP and REST based web services, Integration with Force.com and SFDC application and integration with existed apps from App Exchanges  • Technical knowledge about Salesforce lightning schema builder, process builder, app builder, components and lightning connect. In-depth knowledge of developing apex code within governor limits, MVC and Aura Framework.  • Used Tabular, summary and matrix reports, to create standard reports and custom reports.  • Created queues, public groups, email templates,custom, reusable Lightning Components and Applications. Designed and modified Approval process and created Approval steps which uses email alerts and field updates.  • In-depth understanding of various technologies like HTML, CSS, J2EE, XML, JSON, JavaScript, AngularJS, Jenkins, ExtJS, Spring framework, Hibernate, Ajax, Servlets, WSDL, SOAP API and REST based web services.  • Proficient in writing queries using SOQL and SOSL in apex classes and triggers.  • Good understanding of implementing escalation rules, automatic case generation and escalating them to call center representative and generating email alerts for quick issue resolution.  • Good command over database development using SQL/PL-SQL with MYSQL, Oracle and SQL Server.  • Built Lightning applications that enable a user to search, read, and update data from a Salesforce org and made Lightning Components available to other developers rough unmanaged packages.  • Worked with wave analytics to manage, visualize large data and to create dashboards to monitor key business metrics on the latest data. Knowledge of OAuth 2.0 authorization framework.  • Configured and Managed the Jitterbit data integration tool to integrate salesforce with other systems.  • Worked as an admin in multiple environments like production, development and testing environment.  • Experience with 3rd party data migration ANT tool and deploying through JIRA.  • Experience in developing custom applications that run on Lightning Experience and Salesforce1 that support multiple devices and screen sizes from a single codebase. Experienced in key business functional areas such as ERP, CRM and SCM  • Written queries in SQL to search and display data from Oracle database using SQL plus.  • Excellent understanding of Software Development Like cycle (SDLC) with expertise in Requirement gathering, analysis, design, development and testing.  • Expertise in Agile, scrum methodologies and waterfall model. Experience with Production support.  • Experience with data modeling, logical star schema design and data warehouse concepts.  • Ability to identify and gather business requirements to document the requirements by integrating with various teams such as marketing, business analysts, sales operation team, production team and users.  • Created high level architectural specifications, ensured functionality and feasibility.  • A well-organized, dedicated, goal-oriented and a hard-working team member with excellent analytical, interpersonal, time managerial and problem solving skills.  • Highly motivated with the ability to work independently or as an integral part of a team and committed to the highest levels of professional and personal excellence. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SrSalesforce Developer CondeNast - Dallas, TX August 2016 to Present Project Description:CondeNast is an American mass media company. It has integrated Salesforce into the existing CRM to build innovative connected apps, gain insight into media management process, automate ad selling process and deliver marketing analytics. Managing the sales cloud is one of the primary requirements of the organization.  Responsibilities:  • Designed, developed and deployed Apex classes, Controllers, Extensions and Apex triggers in Visual force and Force.com for various functional needs of the application and used Migration tool.  • Developed Visualforce pages to show customized content as per the client needs.  • Created various Profiles, roles, and Page layouts and configured the permission based on the Organization hierarchy requirements.  • Worked on Servicecloud to provide support to the client and Sales Cloud territories to manage and maintain the organization's sales territories using Enterprise Territory management.  • Worked on Leads, Accounts, Cases, Contacts Standard objects, search layouts, page layouts, custom links and related links.  • Worked on App Customization to meet the functional and operational needs of the organization.  • Implemented Salesforce Automation (SFA) for Campaign Management, Lead Management, Opportunity Management.  • Created workflow rules to create email alerts, update fields, send outbound API messages to external partners.  • Written apex REST web service classes for inbound calls to salesforce.  • Implemented Approval processes to provide additional control over the content and the process used to approve them. Designed HTML Email templates for Auto-response to customers, created approval page layouts and tested using Sandbox.  • Worked with Lightning App Builder to build custom interfaces and lightning component actions to provide a secure way of building client-side custom functionality.  • Used SOQL and SOSL for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Built and integrated mobile optimized Visual Force Pages of Salesforce1 application and Lightning experience.  • Maintained data cleanliness and accuracy by adding custom validation rules, custom formulas, custom tabs, reports and dashboards.  • Implemented escalation rules, automatic case generation and their escalation to call center representative, and generated email alerts for quick issue resolution.  • Responsible for all the activities related to configuring Data Loader, uploading data in CSV files into salesforce.com, checking for the correctness of the data.  • Created Roles, Role Hierarchies, sharing rules and implemented Object Level Field Security to manage critical information on the profile users.  • Managed field tracking and following records through Salesforce Chatter and enabled notifications and publisher actions.  • Used Eclipse based Force.com IDE and Change sets to deploy Apex code.  • Extracted data from Salesforce.com application into large databases (Oracle 10g) for generating large data reports.  • Implemented web based case management, automatic - Web to case (on Case Object) to track and solve customer's issues.  • Worked closely with sales team and business analysts, trained internal business users to use applications, performed detailed analysis of business and user requirements, and designed the solution by customizing various standard objects of Salesforce.com (SFDC).  • Worked on making minor enhancements of SFDC application required by business users from time to time.  • Developed estimates for the project and implemented Salesforce.com customizations and drove User Acceptance Testing (UAT).  • Created various Reports (summary reports, matrix reports, dashboards, pie charts and graphics) and folders to assist managers to properly utilize Salesforce as a sales tool and configured test scenarios in Sandbox environment to implement QA testing.  Environment: Apex Classes, Apex Triggers, Visual force, Security Management, Workflows and Approval processes, HTML, Web services, SOQL, SOSL, JavaScript, Sandbox testing environment, Force.com Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Apex Data loader, Sales Cloud. Salesforce Developer Government Employees Insurance Company - Atlanta, GA May 2015 to June 2016 Project Description: GEICO is the second largest auto insurance company in the United States. Salesforce CRM is integrated to manage their everyday activities like damage claims, marketing cloud, investments, policies, tasks, documents and insurance purchases. Managing the sales cloud is one of the primary requirements of the organization.  Responsibilities:  • Created Tabs, record types, Organization wide default-settings, Sharing rules, queues and groups as per the business requirements.  • Developed APEX classes, Visualforce pages and APEX triggers to develop the custom functionality as per the requirement. Worked with Sales cloud, service cloud and marketing cloud.  • Generated custom dashboards and reports to analyze clients and claims.  • Created custom objects and fields for contractual and transactional information.  • Developed custom Visual force pages to automate Approval processes that used Email approvals and parallel Approval steps.  • Designed, built, test and deployed enhancements to Salesforce custom objects, UIs, workflows, Triggers, Alerts and Reports within Salesforce using Apex and Force.com.  • Involved in writing project specifications including technical, functional and solution design documents using Unified Modified Language (UML).  • Created Visualforce pages which identified a region to be updated to enforce partial page refreshes and display the status of Ajax requests to display different values depending on whether it is in progress or completed.  • Worked on various Salesforce.com standard objects like Case Management, accounts, Contacts, Content, Reports and Workplaces.  • Developed the custom logic to invoke the REST API to encrypt and decrypt the barcodes based on the customer email. The decrypted barcodes are scanned and the physical address is retrieved.  • Developed Validation Rules on various objects and created Assignment Rules on Lead object to assign the leads automatically to various group of users.  • Migrated meta data among various salesforce environments and other tools such as Snapshot, Data expert, etc. using Change sets.  • Worked with Dynamic Apex to access Objects and field describe information, execute dynamic SOQL, SOSL and DML queries.  • Worked on Data management including data integration from external data sources using API's, web services, importing and exporting large volumes of data.  • Implemented Data integration using Master Data Management (MDM), DataGovernance and other techniques.  • Involved in Salesforce.com application Setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs and built Custom applications to match the existing business needs with the required enhancements.  • Worked on Wave analytics, a cloud based platform for collecting data from multiple sources, create interactive views of that data, and share views in dashboards. Worked on Bulk API and Data Loader in both importing and exporting data from custom and standard objects.  • Provide Tier-2 support level tasks and resolved issues for end users.  • Involved in writing test scripts for the encryption and decryption logic and interacting with the testing team to help them with Integration and UAT testing.  • Worked on Test methods to include the controllers and Trigger Handlers to ensure all the apex code has coverage and is being pushed to other sandboxes and production environments.  • Used Agile Methodology.  • Leveraged Project management standards including repeatable timeline, WBS, and SDLC milestones.  Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visualforce (Pages, Component and Controllers), S-Controls, Apex Triggers, Custom objects, Web services, Data loader, Security Controls, Wave analytics. Salesforce Developer/Administrator Bank of America - Dallas, TX July 2014 to March 2015 Project Description: The project is to automate the account enrollment process and to respond quickly to customer questions and issues, and offer customers more insight into the bank's products and services. Salesforce CRM is integrated to manage clients, client database and workflow of the business process effectively.  Responsibilities:  • Customized Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns and Cases.  • Customized Validation Rules, Workflow rules, Triggers, Apex classes to achieve the complex business functionality.  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on a record detail and edit pages.  • Designed, developed and deployed Apex Classes, Controller Classes, Extensions and Apex Triggers for various functional needs of the application using the Eclipse IDE.  • Developed Visual Force Pages, Visual Force Custom Components, Advanced Search Functionality, Custom Objects, Analytic Snapshots, Tabs, Tags and Components.  • Developed User Interface using the CSS, HTML tags, Visual Force Components and used JavaScript for front-end validation.  • Used SOQL & SOSL with consideration to Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Experience in working with Collections like List, Set and Map.  • Involved in customization and integration of mobile optimized Visual Force Pages of Salesforce1 application.  • Profile based permissions on fields and objects are enforced.  • Managed the data using the Apex Data Loader and used GitHub for code versioning.  • Experience in working on different deployment tools including Change sets, Eclipse etc.  • Created Custom Objects and defined lookup and master-detail relationships of the objects.  • Created junction objects to establish connectivity among objects.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, time-triggered tasks, email alert and field updates to implement business logic.  • Create Wave datasets from using internal Salesforce data and external data sources.  • Used the Sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Knowledge in AppExchange Applications for integrating with third party applications.  • Work with user groups to provide training, resolve questions, assess user needs, and recommend changes.  • Scheduled one-on-one meeting with the Product Owner to understand the changes, potential impacts of the changes and to review unit test cases and results.  • Performed a full product review for impacts to assigned product. Engaged in incidents and problems associated with stability and availability of product. Reviewed each release for a list of product enhancements being changed and determined integration testing needs for the product assigned.  Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Data Loader, SOQL, SOSL, Visual Force (Pages, Components, Controllers & Extensions), Apex Triggers, Security Controls, Eclipse IDE Plug-in. Salesforce Administrator/ Developer Walgreens - Kansas City, MO November 2012 to June 2014 Project Description:Walgreens is one of the largest drugstore Chains in U.S. that offers mail service, home care and specialty pharmacy services through its Walgreens Health Services division. Salesforce.com CRM is used to manage leads, opportunities and administrative tasks, helping them provide satisfactory services to the clients improving the overall productivity.  Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with sales team and business analysts and performed detailed analysis of business and technical requirements. Designed solutions by customizing various standard objects of SalesForce.com (SFDC).  • Developed Apex Classes, Test Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs of the application.  • Good experience in development and maintenance of Sales & Service clouds.  • Implemented the requirements on Salesforce.com platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse.  • Implemented DML operations of Inserting and Updating records.  • Worked on SOQL and SOSL queries.  • Closely worked with Salesforce.com consultants for implementing the business solutions for their client requirements.  • Communicating with executive management on project status and overall project progress against target.  • Involved in Salesforce.com Application Setup activities and customized the objects to match the functional needs of the organization.  • Worked on various salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, and Reports and developed the Custom objects, Page layouts, Custom tabs, Components and user Dashboards.  • Created various profiles and configured the permissions based on the organizational hierarchy requirements.  • Created Custom Objects and defined lookup and master-detail relationships on the objects and created junction objects to establish connectivity among objects.  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on a record detail page and edit pages.  • Created workflow rules and defined related actions, time triggered tasks, email alert, field updates to implement business logic.  • Created various Reports (summary reports, matrix reports, pie charts, dashboards and graphics) and Report Folders to assist managers to better utilize Salesforce as a sales tool and configured various reports and for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Workflow and Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Tabs, Email Services, Apex Language, Visual Force Pages, Components and Controller, JavaScript, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Data Loader. Java/ J2EE Developer Misys Software Solutions Pvt Ltd - Bengaluru, Karnataka November 2010 to September 2012 Project Description: Misys is a financial software company headquartered in London, England. It provides various financial software services which include investment management, treasury and enterprise handling. The banking software system is developed to provide solutions to the corporate banking present on the market. It implemented the functionalities of payments, cash management, and treasury services.  Responsibilities:  • Implemented the modules using the Model View Controller (MVC) design pattern  • Developed GUI related changes using JSP, HTML and client validations using Java script.  • Involved in designing the application in various design patterns were used in the design of the application  • Extensively involved in gathering business requirements and system requirements and specifications. Provided conceptual solution. Translated conceptual solution into technical design.  • Used NetBeans as an IDE and Apache Tomcat as an Application Server.  • Extensively used XSL to style XML data.  • Involved in integration, deployment, enhancements, design reviews and responsible for modifying the existing code.  • Involved in all phases (Unit/Integration/System) of testing.  • Involved in drawing the UML diagrams such as Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Effectively communicated to client, team in Knowledge Transfer sessions.  • Responsible for understanding and execution of requirements and developing the application as per the requirements and business rules.  • Involved in various stages of the project life cycle primarily design, implementation, testing, deployment and enhancement of the application.  • Involved in designing the system based on UML concepts which include data flow diagrams, class diagrams, sequence diagrams, state diagrams using Rational Rose Enterprise Edition  • Used JDBC for communicating with the database.  • Wrote Stored Procedures using PL/SQL.  • Provided extensive pre-delivery support by bug fixing and code reviews and Maintenance.  Environment: HTML, Java, XML, CSS, JavaScript, PL/SQL Developer, UNIX, Oracle, NetBeans. JAVA Developer HDFC Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2009 to October 2010 Project Description:This project aims to design the banking system module, for individual, private, business customers. It has checking account, credit card, loan, mortgage features for individual and more options like investment for business and corporate customers.  Responsibilities:  • Gathered and analyzed the requirements and converted them into User Requirement Specifications and Functional Requirement Specifications.  • Involved in Full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC). Used Agile Methodology to develop the entire application.  • Designed and implemented the User Interface using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and SQL Server.  • Developed Interfaces using JSP based on the Users, Roles and Permissions. Screen options were displayed on User permissions. This was coded using Custom Tags in JSP using Tag Libraries.  • Created Web services using Advanced J2EE technologies to communicate with external systems.  • Involved in the UI development, including layout and front-end coding per the requirements of the client. Used HTML4, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript  • Implemented client side validations using JQuery and used JSF core, PrimeFaces and FLEX to develop UI pages  • Used Hibernate along with Spring Framework to integrate with Oracle database  • Built complex SQL queries and ETL scripts for data extraction and analysis to define the application requirements.  • Used DOM and SAX parsers with JAXP API.  • Implementing JUnit test cases to test Java classes.  • Utilized Rational Clear case for version control of the application. This involved creating development streams and defect streams.  • Utilized WSAD for developing the application.  Environment: JSP, Servlets, Struts, Hibernate, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, REST, JUnit, XML, SASS, DOM, SQL Server, WebLogic 10.3.1(Oracle App server), Apache Axis 2.x, Web Services, Eclipse, Agile. Education Bachelor's Skills Apex (5 years), Eclipse (5 years), HTML (5 years), JavaScript (7 years), Testing (5 years), Apex Classes, Apex Triggers, Visual force, Security Management, Workflows and Approval processes, HTML, Web services, SOQL, SOSL, JavaScript, Sandbox testing environment, Force.com Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Apex Data loader, Sales Cloud. (8 years) (8 years) Links http://Salesforce.com Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Salesforce Technologies  Salesforce CRM, Apex, Apex Triggers, Apex Classes/Controllers, Visualforce Pages/Components, apex Web Services, Apex Data loader, Workflow & Approvals, Case management custom objects, Dashboards, S-Controls, Snapshots, SOQL, SOSL    Salesforce Tools  Force.com IDE, Force.com, API tools (Data loader), Force.com Explorer, Force.com Migration tool, Force.com Excel Connector, AppExchange, Jira, Sandbox environment, Lightning components    Languages Apex, C, C++, Java  Databases MS Access, Oracle Applications, SQL Server, MySQL, MongoDB  Web Technologies HTML, DHTML, HTML-5, XHTML, CSS, JQuery, JSP, AngularJS, NodeJS, Primefaces  Web Services JAVA EE, Servlets, JDBC, SOAP, RESTful web services, WSDL, XML, AWS, Glassfish server 3.1, Tomcat Server  Scripting JavaScript, JSON, AJAX  Operating Systems Windows NT, 2000, XP Pro, Windows 7, Windows Server 2000, 2003, Linux and Mac  Version Control GitHub, Bitbucket, Tortoise SVN  Testing Platform Selenium IDE  Data Modelling MS Visio, Tableau, Infogram  Other tools NetBeans, Eclipse, XCode, Visual Studio, DOORS, Rally