Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - State of MA Boston, MA ? Around 9 Years of experience in analysis, design and development of Java Applications in a highly dynamic and challenging environment.  ? Good experience in developing dynamic websites using the MEAN stack  ? Used Cassandra Query Language (CQL) to perform analytics on time series data  ? Experience on working with CSS background, CSS layouts, CSS positioning and CSS behaviors  ? Strong Experience in using XML Suite technologies (XML, XSL, XSLT, DOM and XML Beans).  ? Implemented service layer on top of Cassandra using core java, Datastax java API and Restful API.  ? Good knowledge in Concepts of Object oriented JavaScript.  ? 2+ years of experience in using Mongo DB and Apache SOLR search platform.  ? Hands on experience in using Apache SolrCloud  ? Good knowledge in using other successful data virtualization tools like Citrix.  ? Good understanding on basic switching and routing.  ? 1 year experience using the Yang Data modeling language  ? 1 year experience in using Jasmine open source testing framework  ? Hands on experience in CLI scripting  ? Experience in developing a data pipeline through Kafka-Spark API, Spring-kafka and Confluent kafka (KAFKA API's, KAFKA CONNECT, KAFKA STREAMS)  ? Participated in all phases of SDLC like Requirements Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing, and Deployment.  ? Expertise in J2EE Technology's (Servlets, JSP, JDBC, EJB, JNDI, JSTL, JSON, POJO, JMS, JSF My Faces, Prime Faces, JPA,JAX-WS, JAX_RS).  ? Experienced on Agile Methodology (Scrum, Kanban etc.)  ? Used the JavaScript alert dialog boxes with my Perl CGI program.  ? Experienced on Continuous Delivery and related tools  ? Experienced on TDD ,BDD(using Cucumber)  ? Good experience in developing Rest and web service development.  ? Excellent understanding of Object Oriented design methodology and Core Java concepts such as multi-threading, exception handling, generics, annotations, Collections and I/O.  ? Hands on experience in using Amazon Dynamo db.  ? Experience in using JSP and Servlets to create web interfaces and integrating apache tools like Kafka.  ? Hands on experience in working with both angular 1 and angular 2versions.  ? Hands on experience in working with Denodo platform on AWS for data virtualization.  ? Expertise in open source frameworks Spring, Hibernate and Struts.  ? Actively involved in Service Oriented Architecture using web services.  ? Expertise in using SOAP and RESTFUL for implementing web services.  ? Experience in Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic and Tomcat.  ? Good experience in databases such as SQL Server 2005/2008, Oracle, DB2, NoSQL and MySQL.  ? Experienced in developing middleware applications using Spring IOC, Spring Integration, Spring WS, and Spring WS Security, Spring Data JPA.  ? Data sources from Injection microservices produce and consume data from apache Kafka to enhance data from enhancer micro services.  ? Hands-on experience working with Continuous Integration (CI) build-automation tools such as Maven, Jenkins and Apache Ant.  ? Actively involved in using business process management tools like JBPM, ActivitiBPM.  ? Proven experience in Integrated Development Environment (IDE) such as Eclipse, Net Beans, RAD.  ? Experience in design, development and implementation of Model-View-Controller (MVC-2) architecture, IOC, AOP (Aspect Oriented Programming), DAO (Data Access Object) using Spring Framework and good knowledge of Struts Framework.  ? Experienced in development using Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Micro services  ? Good Experience in understanding and usage of JVM.  ? Extensive experience in Software Configuration Management using Version Control Software such as SVN, CVS and GIT.  ? Good knowledge in implementing various Design Patterns Singleton, Factory pattern, Abstract Factory pattern and DAO pattern.  ? Experience in creating Unified Modeling Language (UML) diagrams such as Use Case Diagrams, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, and Class Diagrams, Deployment Diagrams using Rational Rose.  ? Worked in both Unix/Linux and Windows based development environments.  ? Good programming and debugging skills in Unix Shell Scripting.  ? Used Continuous integration tools such as Anthill, Jenkins for deployment purpose.  ? Quick learner with strong problem solving skills, interpersonal skills and a good team player.  ? Writing JUNIT test cases for Service methods  ? Very good understanding on NOSQL databases like MongoDB and Cassandra  ? Self-starter, fast learner and a team player with strong personal and group communication skills.  ? Excellent analytical capabilities and good communication skills.  ? Good Knowledge of using IDE Tools like Eclipse, NetBeans, Rational Application Developer(RAD) for Java/J2EE application development.  ? Have knowledge on NoSQL database, Couch Base DB, Cassandra and Mongo DB.  ? Expertise in database modeling and development using SQL and PL/SQL in Oracle (8i, 9i and 10g), DB2 and SQL Server environments.  ? Experience in using ANT for build automation.  ? Experience in using version control and configuration management tools like SVN, CVS and Subversion.  ? Proficient in software documentation and technical report writing.  ? Versatile team player with good communication, analytical, presentation and inter-personal skills.  ? Experience in Configuring and deploying applications on BEA Web Logic 8.x/7.x, Apache Tomcat 8.x and Web Sphere Application Server. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java Developer State of MA - Boston, MA April 2018 to Present The form of Massachusetts government is provided by the Constitution of the Commonwealth. The legislative power is exercised by the bicameral General Court, composed of the Senate and House of Representatives.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed Use case diagrams, Object diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using UML.  ? The application architecture of the System is based on Spring MVC (Model View Controller) and J2EE specifications.  ? Troubleshoot and debug Hadoop ecosystem run-time issues  ? Implemented various features of spring framework such as Dependency Injection, IOC, Annotations, and Spring integration with Hibernate.  ? Good knowledge of Spring&IOC, AOP, Spring MVC and springs integration with Hibernate and Struts technologies.  ? Proficient in developing SOAP and RESTful Web Services.  ? Build RESTful Web services using JAX-RS API.  ? Implemented Kafka in java8 along with Kafka stream topology. Live stream events will be stored in my sql and Cassandra through Kafka stream topology.  ? Designed and developed RESTful service interface using Spring MVC to the underlying customer event API.  ? Experienced in writing JUnit Test cases for Java and J2EE applications.  ? Created JUnit Test Cases, Test Suites using JUnit for Java Service Layer which was developed using Spring, Persistence layer using the web.  ? Use SCRUM for agile development and participate in team-led solutions, reviewing peer's code for quality and completeness.  ? Designed and implemented a stream filtering system on top of Apache Kafka to reduce stream size.  ? Identify development issues, brainstorm solutions, and constantly improve the solution via testing and feedback until the issue is resolved.  ? Integrated amazon S3 server with kafka to store kafka stream events topology events.  ? Experience with Eclipse or IntelliJ IDE's, various plug-ins, Maven, Nexus, Git.  ? Expert knowledge of Spring Frameworks, Spring Boot, Spring Data, Node Js and Hibernate  ? Wrote JUnit test cases for unit, integration, and functional tests, run automatically by Hudson/Jenkins in the builds triggered by each push to Git Worked on Repositories like VSS, SVN, GITGerrit Used GIT repository for software configuration management and version control Used Git Hub version control for file Management.  ? Architect, design, and conceptually, logically, and physically model data that exists in sourcing systems, data lakes, data warehouses, and data marts supporting the Big Data Hadoop ecosystem supported solutions.  ? Experience with current Java Frameworks (Spring, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Data)  ? Deep expertise and hands on experience with Java, Spring Boot, and and Micro services architecture  ? Architectured and helped developing a hybrid system of HDFS using Kafka.  ? Worked on Spring Security for application authentication.  ? Manage, integrate and secure ART store's services in the cloud (AWS, Cloud Bees, JIRA etc.).  ? Good experience with Cassandra NoSQL Database.  ? Experience with and strong understanding of Data Warehousing and Big Data Hadoop ecosystems.  ? Experienced in Spring framework, spring boot, Web service (REST) frameworks, web service security, Docker, IBM MQ, Maven, GIT, Jenkins, XML, JSON, Messaging framework.  ? Solid hands-on experience in Cloud Computing (AWS) and Architecting.  ? Strong experience in Security-System development for Web Applications.  ? Implemented application security including User Management, LDAP authentication, authorization (users have restricted access to app components according to their permissions)  ? Improving performance, security, and usability of the existing application.  ? Implementing security Single Sign-On application to share user management, authentication, and authorization among multiple applications.  ? We used the most popular streaming tool KAFKA to load the data on Hadoop File system and move the same data to MongoDB NoSQL database.  ? Experience with MicroServices and AWS integration  ? Developed optimal strategies for distributing the web log data over the cluster, importing andexporting the stored web log data into HDFS  ? Experience in working with Spring Quartz framework and developed various quartz jobs.  ? Generating Dashboard through Splunk. Hands on experience with Searching and Reporting with Splunk 5.x.  ? Experienced in Writing the Splunk queries for reporting, dashboards for analysis.  ? Responsible to support the operations, monitoring, reporting according to the requirement of the higher management team by making Splunk Dashboards.  ? This functionality is implemented by developing RESTFUL web services using Spring boot, Spring RESTFUL template.  ? Built real time engine which can process information and push notifications to Apple Push Notification service and Google Cloud Messaging Service using Apache Kafka and Apache Storm.  ? JVM service frameworks such as Spring Boot, Grails, Vert.x, RxJava or Ratpack.  ? Developed the front-end using Eclipse RCP/ Java Swing involving UI design user-generated event handling incorporation of underlying functionalities as per the laid down specifications and involved in incorporating business logic into SQL code stored procedures.  ? Consumed Kafka stream using Apache Storm topology.  ? Cassandra implementation using Datastax Java API, Hector API, CQL and Kundera API.  ? Worked on spring boot, Spring Rest full template to develop Application Level Micro Services.  ? Developed Applications using Rule Engines, Drools 4.x, and ILOG with corresponding to validate the business User Roles.  ? Worked on using Rule Engines, Drools 4.x, and ILOG with corresponding to validate the business User Roles.  ? Implemented Micro Services based Cloud Architecture on AWS Platform and Cloud Foundry.  ? Data sources from Injection micro services produce and consume data from apache Kafka to enhance data from enhancer micro services.  ? Proven experience in developing Big Data Pipelines in a Hadoop Ecosystem using Kafka, Hive, Hive w/Tez, HDFS, HBase, and Spark on Yarn  ? Implemented the application using design patterns such as Session Façade, Business Delegate, Bean Factory, Singleton, Data Access Object, and Service Locator.  ? Solid Hands-on experience in designing and creation of complete Cloud Formation Templates (JSON/YML Template) to implement whole AWS infrastructure through scripting.  ? Implemented Hibernate Template to great extent making use of HQL, Named Parameters, Named Queries and interfaces such as Expression, Query, and Criteria.  ? Experience with Git, Maven, AWS and INtelliJ IDEA preferred  ? Implemented and developed UI components using Angular JS features like Dependency Injection, Models, data binding,and controllers.  ? Strong experience in Spring Boot; Java (Spring)  ? Developed test cases for Angular JS using karma and grunt.  ? Developed Interactive web pages using AngularJS, HTML, CSS,and JavaScript.  ? Administered and deployed applications into WebSphere Application Server.  ? Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) for the reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information such as payment status report.  ? Facilitate the selection of appropriate Hadoop and Hadoop ecosystem tools  ? Exposure to containerized deployments of Spring Boot applications  ? Migrating the VCS, Oracle RAC and Red Hat Clusters with file systems across the Data Center, which includes configuration of new IP, VIP,and Private IP.  ? Worked with JAXB, SAXPand XML Schema for exporting data into XML format and importing data from XML format to database and JAXB in the web service request response data marshaling as well as the unmarshalling process.  ? Experience building service-oriented solutions and RESTful microservices  ? Java for extracting metadata from various files into the HDFS  ? Strong hands-on experience with Spring IO, Spring Boot.  ? Developer Spring Quartz jobs to run the backend jobs and generated reports.  ? After generating JASON-LD data the data again posted into apache  ? Used GIT as version management, Jira for defect management system.  ? System configuration and Administration of Red Hat Linux.  ? Used JUnit for unit testing of the application and log4j for logging.    Environment:: Java 8, Spring 3.5, Hibernate 4.2, Eclipse IDE, Spring batch, Spring quartz, Spring security, Spring Boot, JPA, Java Scripts,Agile, AngularJS, HTML 4.0, CSS, JMS, JAXP (SAX & DOM), Oracle 11g, CGI,WebSphere Application Server, Eclipse/RAD 8.0, Oracle 11g, SOAP, RUP, Maven, log4j, Junit, XML, Web Services,Hadoop Ecosystem, Splunk, GIT. Sr.Full Stack Java Developer JB Hunt - Lowell, AR September 2016 to March 2018 J.B. Hunt Transport Services, Inc. is a trucking and transportation company that was founded by Johnnie Bryan Hunt, and based in the Northwest Arkansas city of Lowell. J.B. Hunt Transport Services, Inc. was incorporated in Arkansas on August 10, 1961 and started with five trucks and seven refrigerated trailers to support the rice hull business. By 1983, J.B. Hunt had grown into the 80th largest trucking firm in the US and earned $63 million in revenue. At that time J.B. Hunt was operating 550 tractors, 1,049 trailers, and had roughly 1,050 employees. Today the company has grown into one of the largest transportation companies in the US with annual revenues of about $7 billion. J.B. Hunt primarily operates large semi-trailer trucks, and provides transportation services throughout the continental US, Canada and Mexico. The company currently employs over 124,000 and operates more than 12,000 trucks. Over 100,000 trailers and containers can be found in the company's fleet.    Responsibilities:  ? Was responsible for designing and developing Manage Purchase Order Web Service and presentation layer with Spring MVC.  ? Responsible for Requirement gathering, coding, testing and documentation.  ? Architected and deployed Java based web product matching framework that matches products across multiple retailers.  ? Experience in data modeling of Cassandra.  ? Designed and integrated the full scale Spring/Hibernate persistence solution with the application architectures.  ? Designed and developed the messaging framework for communication between workflow manager and other Enterprise Applications over Java class and MQ-Series using JMS.  ? Designed and integrated the full scale Spring/Hibernate persistence solution with the application architectures.  ? Implemented RESTfulWebservices to retrieve data from client side and made RESTAPI calls from Angular JS and parsed the data to project to the client and handled the security and Authorization using Spring Security and OAuth.  ? Developed Business objects using POJOs and data access layer using Hibernate framework.  ? Achieved Dependency injection by creating Spring services, Spring controllers and DAOs to wire objects of business classes.  ? Experience with streaming platforms like Apache Kafka and messaging services RabbitMQ, Zookeeper.  ? Experience in working with CICD tools like Jenkins.  ? Designed and developed business components using SpringBoot, Spring Dependency Injection (Core), Spring AOP and Spring Annotations.  ? Used Hibernate Transaction Management, Spring/Hibernate Batch Transactions and Hibernate cache concepts.  ? Used Spring Data Framework to use the features of Spring JDBC and Spring ORM classes like JDBC Template and Hibernate Template to perform the database operations by connecting to Data sources available.  ? Worked with the development team to create appropriate cloud solutions for client needs.  ? Implemented database layer using EJB 3.0 and Java Persistence API(JPA) in maintenance projects  ? Responsible for developing Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams and process flow diagrams for the modules using UML and Rational Rose.  ? Built real time engine which can process information and push notifications to Apple Push Notification service and Google Cloud Messaging Service using Apache Kafka and Apache Storm.  ? Involved in Preparation of the technical design documents and involved in identifying and implementation of different J2EE design patterns like Singleton and DAO etc.  ? Developed the presentation layer using JSP, JSTL, HTML, JSON, XHTML, CSS and client validations using JavaScript.  ? Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, indexes, sharing, replication, schema design.  ? Using Apache Camel frame work provided concrete implementations of all the widely used EnterpriseIntegrationPatterns (EIPs) and connectivity to a great variety of transports and APIs.  ? Contemporary applications rely on relational databases, NoSQL databases and messaging infrastructure for achieving the internet scale. Cloud Foundry exposes MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, RabbitMQ and Redis as services that offer the database and messaging capabilities  ? Involved in designing and development of web interface using JSP, Servlets, JavaScript and JDBC for administering and managing users and clients.  ? Developed the application using My Eclipse 8.5 and used eclipse standard/plug-in features for editing, debugging, compiling, and formatting and build automation.  ? Handling user requests such as code enhancements, bug fixes.  ? Knowledge in using Oracle, Cassandra, Mongo, MySQL databases, writing & tuning SQL and PL/SQL  ? Created stored procedures, triggers and functions using SQLPlus to meet user requirements.  ? Used Log4j for logging errors, messages and performance l.  ? Integrated with MDM for managing user data, login and registration information are retrieved from MDM and synced with E commerce database    Environment: Java, J2ee, Java beans, Servlets, JMS,WV, JSP, Drools, Jenkins,Angular 1.2.0 , Node.js v0.11.10, Servlets, GWT, Hibernate, EJB, JPA, Spring, Java Script, JDBC, UNIX, HTML, XHTML, XSLT, JSON, SOAP, WSDL, Eclipse, Web Services, MySQL, SQL Plus, LDAP, Log4j. Full Stack Java Developer Malvern, PA February 2015 to August 2016 Vanguard is one of the world's largest investment companies, offering a large selection of low-cost mutual  Funds, ETFs, advice, and related services. Whether you are an individual investor or a financial professional, or you Represent a corporate or institutional investor, you can benefit from its expertise, stability, and reliable investment approach.    Responsibilities:  ? Implemented Object-relation mapping in the persistence layer using hibernate framework in conjunction with validation.xml functionality.  ? Extensively used DAO patterns, including mapping DAO objects, configure file and classes to interact with the database.  ? Used Jenkins plugins for code coverage and to run all the test before generating war file.  ? Implemented Object-relation mapping in the persistence layer using Hibernate (ORM) framework.  ? Developed rich User Interface using jQuery, JavaScript, CSS3, and HTML5.  ? Used AJAX function calls using jQuery functions to handle the user requests asynchronously and to have faster responses from the server by directly connecting to the server.  ? Obtained JSON responses to front-end using GSONAPI.  ? Implemented web services, used to retrieve data that tells whether the claimant is incarcerated or not.  ? Developed applications using Hibernate persistent framework, developed persistent classes, hibernate-mapping files, configured XML files, hibernate query language.  ? Developed JSP pages for correspondence team.  ? Implemented web services using WSDL/SOAP and created web services and clients to use those services.  ? Designed and Developed Rating Engine as a Web service following the top-down approach using ApacheAxis2.  ? Developed Custom Tags to represent data in a desired unique table format and to implement paging logic.  ? Developed views and controllers for client and manager modules using Spring MVC and Spring Core.  ? Used Spring Security for securing the web tier Access.  ? Business logic is implemented using SpringCore and Hibernate.  ? Developed and modified database objects as per the requirements.  ? Involved in Unit integration, bugfixing, acceptance testing with test cases, Codereviews.  ? Interaction with customers and identified System Requirements and developed Software Requirement Specifications.  ? Implemented Java design patterns wherever required.  ? Involved in development, maintenance, implementation and support of the System.  ? Involved in initial project setup and guidelines.  ? Implemented Multi-threading concepts.  ? Developed the application using CoreJava, J2EE and JSP's.  ? Different Types of testing viz Unit, System, Integration testing etc. is carried out during the testing phase.    Environment: Java/ J2EE, JEE7 JSP, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, Hibernate, Spring MVC, XML, EJB, Web Services, SOAP, Eclipse, Rational Rose, HTML, XPATH, XSLT, DOM and JDBC. Full Stack Java Developer Princeton, NJ June 2013 to January 2015 Pearson is based on educational platform, which is one of the leading educational and professional publishers around the globe. The rapid growth in usage of Tablets, Laptops and smart phones which transforms education to everyone virtually anytime and anywhere, this project focuses on e-learning web portal and application development.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed multiple user tools with core Java and DB2 using eclipse IDE.  ? Implemented multiple design patterns like factory, façade, etc.  ? Extensive code reviews on adherence to design and performance.  ? Extensive real time production support.  ? Wrote HQL queries as part of development.  ? Designed and implemented XML parsing for XML order conformations.  ? Created database pool, multi-pool, data source and mapped them to roles.  ? Used spring for creating the object using dependency injection (IOC).  ? Developed the web-services and analysis of SOAP envelope using SOAP UI.  ? Created Rest web services using JAX-RS, Hibernate framework.  ? Configured action mapping (in XML) for each logical request that may be submitted.  ? Seed Hibernate as Object Relational (OR) Mapping Tool for the backend data.  ? Have used DOJO toolkit to construct Ajax requests and build dynamic web pages using JSP, HTML5 and JavaScript, Angular JS.  ? Monitored the error logs and fixed the problems.  ? Developed the different components of the application such as JSP, Servlets, DAO and Used Sub Version (SVN) for version control.  ? Involved in the Development of Spring Framework Controllers. Developed Controller for request, response paradigm by Spring Controllers using Spring-MVC.  ? Developed additional UI Components and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX (JQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience.  ? Built ANT scripts for automated deployment and for the build operation of the entire application.  ? Developed web pages using HTML5/CSS and JavaScript, Angular JS  ? Developed many JSP pages, used Dojo in JavaScript Library, jQuery UI for client side validation.  ? Used GWT and Smart GWT for web application development  ? Wrote batch jobs and was involved in performance tuning of complex queries.    Environment: Core Java, SQL Design Patterns, Spring, OOPS/OOAD (UML), XML, Hibernate, Eclipse IDE, Tortoise SVN source control, BugZilla, Autosys, Aqua Studio, JIRA, GWT, Smart GWT, Ajax Full Stack Java Developer Montek Technology Services December 2011 to May 2013 Montek Real Estate and Construction software focuses on providing information technology solutions and services to home builders, real estate agencies, and commercial construction companies and facilities management service providers. Montek combine industry domain knowledge with in-depth, specialized technical expertise to help our customers leverage information technology and achieve measurable business impact    Responsibilities:  ? Developed multiple user tools with core Java and DB2 using eclipse IDE.  ? Implemented multiple design patterns like factory, façade, etc.  ? Extensive code reviews on adherence to design and performance.  ? Extensive real time production support.  ? Wrote HQL queries as part of development.  ? Designed and implemented XML parsing for XML order conformations.  ? Created database pool, multi-pool, data source and mapped them to roles.  ? Used spring for creating the object using dependency injection (IOC).  ? Developed the web-services and analysis of SOAP envelope using SOAP UI.  ? Created Rest web services using JAX-RS, Hibernate framework.  ? Configured action mapping (in XML) for each logical request that may be submitted.  ? Seed Hibernate as Object Relational (OR) Mapping Tool for the backend data.  ? Have used DOJO toolkit to construct Ajax requests and build dynamic web pages using JSP, HTML5 and JavaScript, Angular JS.  ? Wrote batch jobs and was involved in performance tuning of complex queries.  ? Monitored the error logs and fixed the problems.  ? Developed the different components of the application such as JSP, Servlets, DAO and Used Sub Version (SVN) for version control.  ? Involved in the Development of Spring Framework Controllers. Developed Controller for request, response paradigm by Spring Controllers using Spring-MVC.  ? Developed additional UI Components and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX (JQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience.  ? Built ANT scripts for automated deployment and for the build operation of the entire application.  ? Developed web pages using HTML5/CSS and JavaScript, Angular JS  ? Developed many JSP pages, used Dojo in JavaScript Library, jQuery UI for client side validation.    Environment: Core Java, SQL (DB2), Design Patterns, Spring, OOPS/OOAD (UML), XML, Hibernate, DOJO 1.5, Eclipse IDE, Tortoise SVN source control, BugZilla, Autosys, Aqua Studio, JIRA, Cygwin. Java Developer Colruyt Group April 2010 to November 2011 Colruyt Group is a leading retailer of food and non-food products in regions of Belgium, France and Luxembourg.    Responsibilities:  ? Requirement gathering and Analysis - This involved understanding the business requirement and discussing the same with business users while onsite to get more clarity upon.  ? Integration with other modules and Deployment, Testing of the project in offshore environment.  ? Deployment support for test environments along with production environment.  ? Involved in RIS, PACS modules.  ? Involved in developing interactive web pages using JSP, JavaScript, Sofia, Flex, and Action Script.  ? Involved in developing Services Using JMX and JMS.  ? Involved in developing Server side coding and Configurations using Sofia, spring.  ? Hibernate was used as an ORM tool.  ? Designing Reports using Jasper Reports.  ? Participated in technical and functional discussions.  ? Unit Testing using Junit.  ? Involved Dictaphone integration to the application.    Environment: Core Java, SQL (DB2), Design Patterns, Spring, OOPS/OOAD (UML), XML, Hibernate, DOJO 1.5, Eclipse IDE, Tortoise SVN source control, BugZilla,Autosys, Aqua Studio, JIRA, Cygwin. Education Bachelor's Skills AJAX (4 years), CSS (7 years), Database. (7 years), Eclipse (8 years), HTML5. (4 years), Java (8 years), JavaScript. (8 years), JIRA (5 years), jQuery (4 years), JSP (8 years), Model View Controller (7 years), Model-View-Controller (7 years), MVC (7 years), ORM (4 years), Servlets (4 years), sql (7 years), Subversion. (5 years), SVN (5 years), Web Services. (7 years), XML (7 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming: Java/J2EE (JSP, Servlets, JSTL, and other java related technologies.)  Scripting: jQuery, JavaScript, Shell Script  Frameworks: Spring (MVC, AOP, ORM, Web Service, DAO, Social, Security, etc.), Hibernate, Bootstrap, Struts, Tiles, DWR (Direct Web Remoting),Apache camel, Spring Data JPA , GWT,Angular1.x, Angular 2&4, React JS  IDE: Eclipse, IntelliJ, NetBeans, IBM Rational Application Developer (RAD)  Web Technologies: HTML/HTML5, CSS, SSL, XML, AJAX, Web Services, REST  Web Servers: JBoss, Web logic, Web Sphere, Tomcat, Jetty, Apache  Databases: Oracle, MySQL, MSSQL Server, Sybase, PostgreSQL,Cassandra, Mongo DB  Database Tools: SQL Developer, DB Artisan, TOAD, MSSQL Server Management Studio  Reporting Tools: Jasper Reports, BIRT, Crystal Reports  Build Tools: Gradle, Maven, ANT  Other Tools: JIRA, Confluence, Bamboo, Sonar, Fisheye  Version Control: Git, SVN, CVS  Operating Systems: Windows (XP, 7, 8/8.1, 10), Linux, Unix