Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - VMware Fremont, CA • 7+ years of IT experience in analysis, design, development, and documentation, implementing and testing of software systems in Java, J2EE and Internet technologies.  • Strong Knowledge on Application Development using Test driven development (TDD) and Agile Methodologies.  • Expertise in working with various J2EE technologies including Spring, Hibernate, Struts (MVC) Framework, Servlets, JSP, JNDI, JMS, JDBC, AJAX and WEB SERVICES.  • Experience in using various design patterns such as MVC, Singleton, Factory Pattern, DAO, Observer, and Business Delegate in the development of Multi-Tier distributed Enterprise Applications.  • Extensive Knowledge with Hibernate, Spring, Struts, Web Services(SOAP and REST)  • Experience in core Java-Multithreading, collections, RMI and JDBC  • Experience in Configuring and deploying applications on Tomcat 7.0/8.0, WebLogic 9.2/8.1 servers.  • Sound RDBMS concepts and extensively worked with Oracle 10g/9i, MS SQL Server 2005/2000 and MySQL  • Knowledge of XML, XSL, XSLT, DOM, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML, CSS.  • Experience with Use-Case design, Class & Sequence diagrams using UML/Rational Rose and Ms Visio  • Good working experience in GUI design and application development using IDE's like Eclipse 2.0/3.0/Galileo, Ant and Maven  • Excellent team player with extra ordinary analytical, strategic planning and interpersonal and communication skills. Highly motivated, enthusiastic and self-starter Work Experience Sr. Java Developer VMware - Palo Alto, CA November 2013 to Present The Enterprise Document Management (EDM) project involves the development of a unified, simple and intuitive user interface for common management functions for the contents stored within the enterprise. This system will also integrate with multiple content authoring tools to facilitate seamless content additions or updates to the central content repository thereby providing greater flexibility and speed for change by using tools that are driven by business rules.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Software Development Life Cycle ( use cases, design, coding, testing)  • Created a Use case Diagram that shows the User cases and developed classes and diagrams using UML.  • Implemented in MVC Architecture.  • Wrote numerous Java classes using EJB 3.0, JSP, Servlets 2.5, Struts framework.  • Developed presentation layer using AJAX, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript  • Involved In integration of different layers of the application.  • Design and development of tables in Oracle database and creation of action and DAO classes and class diagrams and thorough unit testing the module.  • Extensive development of JSP, Action Class and form beans using Eclipse IDE.  • Created tile definitions, struts-config files and resource bundles using Struts framework.  • Implemented validation framework for creation of validation.xml and used validation-rules.xml.  • Designed and Developed Java classes, XML Mapping files and Service classes to use the Hibernate API  • Created Java and XML/XSLT components for an IBM MQ-Series adaptor for plug-in. Design included a robust data element mapping strategy, allowing easy customization for IBM implementers.  • Created connections to database using Hibernate session Factory, using Hibernate APIs to retrieve and store data to the database with Hibernate transaction control.  • Developed stored procedures and triggers in PL/SQL  • Scheduling the executable Java jar files for sending email notifications using shell scripts in Unix server  • Involved in writing Junit test cases and suits using Eclipse IDE.    Environment: Java, WebLogic 6.0, Oracle 9i/10g, Eclipse 5.1, JSP, JPA, XML, Unix, J2SE, Servlets, JDBC, JMS, Hibernate 3.0, JMS, Jboss, Ant, web Services, Struts, Maven 2, JUnit, HTML Sr. Java/J2EE Developer AT&T - St. Louis, MO May 2012 to October 2013 AT&T management system involves monitoring and notification systems. Responsible for developing the company's key customer account system and the customer "Opt-Out" system.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for requirements gathering, documenting business and systems requirements, and developing low level and high level design documents.  • Evaluating the design and development needs of customers and providing estimates for the delivery of the project artifacts.  • Involved in designing the classes and packages for the custom components.  • Design and Development of User Interface modules using Java, JSP and Servlets.  • Involved in Unit and Integration testing, defect tracking and bug fixing.  • Responsible for maintaining application code builds in the CVS repository and validating prior to stage and production environment deployments.  • Responsible for creating SQL queries, scripts, procedures and jobs in the Database.  • Co-ordinating with cross functional IT teams on the environment setup.  • Creation of Unit and Integration test cases.    Environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, Oracle 11g, Linux, SVN, HTML, CSS, Java Script, jQuery1.7.2 , Tomcat, Eclipse, HP Quality Center Java. J2EE Developer Roslyn Savings Bank March 2011 to April 2012 The E- Banking (E-BS) for Roslyn Savings Bank provides the Bank access to their accounts with robust and secure data communication over the Internet. The Bank customers must apply to IBS to use the Internet Banking. The E-BS enables the Bank customer to perform Enquires and transactional functions relating to their accounts.    The Backend System is Clarity, which interacts with Host (ICBS and IST) for account Enquires and Fund Transfers.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used Rational Unified Process (RUP) to develop the project.  • Follow the Agile and RUP (Rational Unified process) methodology to develop this project  • Developed the Presentation and Controller layers using JSP, HTML, Java Script, Business logic using Spring (IOC, AOP), DTO, JTA, and Persistent layer DAO, Hibernate for all modules.  • Implemented service layer classes using Spring IOC and AOP classes.  • Developed the application using industry standard design patterns like, Service Locator, Singleton, Business Delegate, MVC, and Factory Pattern etc for re-usability.  • Used JavaScript for Client Side validation in JSP pages.  • Implemented and maintained AJAX based rich client for improved customer experience.  • Developed Java Messaging Service (JMS) with MessageDrivenBeans by configuring JMS Queues, Topics, and Connection Factories.  • Implemented Web services components SOAP, WSDL, and UDDI to interact with external systems.  • Developed SQL, PL/SQL with Stored Procedures to interact with Persistent database using Oracle 10g.  • Developed JUnit test framework and executed unit test cases by using JUNIT for fixes.  • Developed the code environment using IDE as Eclipse3.2 and deployed into BEA WebLogic Application Server & Developed ANT build.xml to achieve more functionality for build process.    Environment: Jdk1.4, AJAX, JavaScript, JSP, Spring 2.5.6, DAO, Hibernate 3.0, UML, Rational Rose, Design patterns, JMS, BEA WebLogic application server, Eclipse3.2, Oracle 10g, ANT, JUNIT, HTML, DHTML, XML, Log4J, XSL, CSS, Windows XP and UNIX. J2EE Developer CNA Insurance - Chicago, IL January 2010 to March 2011 Project: Underwriting System for Insurance    CNA Insurance Company is a leading Health Insurance Provider in the state of Illinois. This project involves the development of a web enabled underwriting system for Insurance. This system includes the claim submission/processing modules along with disclosures submission and persistence.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in elaboration, construction phases and deployments of EAR files in the RUP process.  • Designed and Created Domain model and schema using Object oriented design / UML diagrams Built SOAP Webservices  • Installed and configured WebLogic in Development and Testing environment  • Created User Interface screens using HTML, DHTML, AJAX, CSS, Java script  • Developed Action classes, ActionForms, and Struts Configuration file to handle required UI actions, JSPs for Views.  • Developed server side presentation layer using Struts MVC2 Framework.  • Used various design patterns like Business delegate, Singleton, Factory, DAO, DTO, Service locator etc.  • Used RAD application development and configured external capabilities for various interfaces.  • Performed Inheritance based OR mappings in tables to simplify the data in Hibernate.  • Used Oracle database for SQL, PL/SQL scripts, stored procedures, functions, triggers, Oracle forms/Reports, Performance Tuning and Optimization.  • Deployed web services for updating the information to the workflow steps and getting the pre-configured workflow processes and invoked with RMI.  • Unit tested all the classes using JUNIT at various class level and methods level.  • Made use of WINCVS for checkout and check in operations.    Environment: Java 1.4.2, J2ee1.4, WebLogic 6.0, Struts 1.2, Hibernate 2.0, JSP 2.0, SOAP webservices, HTML, XML, XSL/XSLT, JavaScript, JavaBeans, AJAX, Oracle 10g. Software Engineer People's Insurance Company Group of China(PICC) - ??? January 2007 to April 2008 Project: E-PICC Policy Holding System    E-PICC Policy Holding System is an internet website for People's Insurance Company Group of China Auto Insurance through which the customers can login and do policy related activities like download policy details, make a payment/claim, edit vehicle/driver/coverage and personal info, enroll in e-Policy etc    Responsibilities:  • Developed a web based application to provide Dental, Drug and Benefits information to registered members.  • Provides customer information for demographics, privacy, contact information and product information.  • Provides views for contact and case history.  • Analysis, Design and Development phases of project with major emphasis on Development  • Developed JSP's, HTML and front-end validations using JavaScript.  • Business Logic is being developed using Session EJB's.  • Oracle is used as backend data store.  • Worked with deployment descriptor, filters, listeners, context and session attributes.    Environment: Windows 2000, Eclipse 3.0, J2EE, Java, JSP, JDBC, Servlets, Java Script, STRUTS1.1, EJB, Oracle 9i, JDBC, JNDI, WebLogic 6.0. Java Developer China Minsheng Banking Corp, LTD - ??? September 2005 to December 2006 Project: Online Banking System    Online banking application enables bank customers to access their accounts through web. The application delivers online services including account information, bill payment, and transfer of funds, balance of mortgage and loan if there any involved in the account. The system guarantees convenient and safe access to your account in any time from any chosen place in the world. There are several modules in this system such as accounts, deposits, transfers, beneficiary, applications and reports.    Responsibilities:  • Designing and developing the user interface using JSP supporting by struts framework.  • Used Struts validator for client side and server side validation  • Created Action Forms to get and transfer data to Struts Actions for data processing and transformation  • Used Eclipse as IDE for application development  • Developed JavaBeans for implementing business logic, and for mapping objects to tables in Sybase database using Hibernate  • Coding server side using Java Servlets and JSP for updating and adjustment of balances using hibernate  • Participated in user training and documentation preparation for each of modules along with User Interface module.  • Provided production support by interacting with the end-users and fixing bugs    Environment: JDK 1.4.1, Servlets, JSP, Struts, JavaScript, IBM Websphere Application Server, Sybase, JDBC, Windows XP, Eclipse. Education Master of Science in Computer Science University of Texas - Dallas, TX 2009 Bachelor of Science in Management Information System Tianjin University 2005 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Platforms MS-DOS, Windows 2000/XP/Vista/7, Linux, Sun Solaris  Languages JAVA1.2 - 7, SQL  J2EE Technologies Servlets, JSP, Struts 1.x/2.x, Spring 3.0/3.2, Hibernate 2.x/3.0, 2.0-3.0, JPA, Web Services 2.0(JAX-WS), SOAP, REST, JSTL, JDBC,  JNDI, JMS, RMI  Web Development HTML, JavaScript, GWT, Flex, Swing, CSS, XML, JAXP (SAX, DOM), XSL, XSLT, AJAX, DHTML, XML Schema  App/Web Servers BEA WebLogic 8.1/9.2, JBoss 4.x, Tomcat 7.x/8.x, GlassFish server  Database Oracle 9i/10g, SQL Server 2000/2005, MySQL  IDE Eclipse 2.0/3.x/Galileo, JBuilder,  NetBeans, JCreator  Build Tools/ Protocols Ant, Maven, TCP/IP HTTP, FTP, SOAP  Version Control Tools CVS, Git