QA ENGINEER QA ENGINEER QA ENGINEER Chandler, AZ Solutions-oriented and highly motivated with the ability to leverage strong training and experience while excelling in a Software Engineer role. Readily utilize technologies to align with business objectives and achieve goals. Motivated self-starter with exceptional team building, leadership, and interpersonal skills. Excellent team player with the ability to work in a time-sensitive environment. Highly adaptable in quickly changing technical environments with strong organizational and analytical skills. Analysis and design of databases and user interfaces. Managing requirements, implementing SDLC, policies, and procedures in the development of software. Excellent written and verbal communication skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience QA ENGINEER INFOMATRIX - ISLAMABAD, PK August 2017 to February 2019 Executed Browser Compatibility Testing (IE, Firefox, Chrome) of Web-based application. Gather requirements from Business Analyst and analyze the requirements for testing. Prepared test strategies based on requirements, developed test plans, and test cases, and executed test cases. Generate reports on a daily and weekly basis for defect reports and execution status. Participated in weekly QA status and project status meetings to report any defects and issues encountered in the application. Created the Maven projects and good knowledge of maven lifecycle and maven dependency and plugins. Developed data-related frameworks to retrieve test actions, test data from SQL Databases, and excel sheets. Built a Page Object Model Framework for over 70% Test Cases using Selenium Web Driver and TestNG. Used TestNG to develop Selenium automation framework. Involved in both Manual and Automation testing. Performed Gray Box Testing, Regression Testing, Manual Testing, Functional Testing, and Usability testing. Worked on Agile and Scrum environment. Involved and executed Unit, Integration, System Testing for Web-based applications. Preparation of Test Summary Report. Arrange meetings and work with Dev team and Business Analysts for defect triage. Managing the test scripts and test results. Preparing reports for client & employer engagement managers. ANDROID/ JAVA EE DEVELOPER WINNING SOLUTIONS - ISLAMABAD, PK February 2014 to July 2017 Developed an Android-based application with a web-tier developed in the Java EE environment. It provides remote data entry and forms designing facilities that can be handled on the server end and synchronized on the client end. The data is reviewable on the web application. The website is currently available on http://www.wsactivision.com.pk. Following the successful venture driven by WSActivision, Winning Solutions lead me into another project, WSTracker. It was an employee tracking service that targeted organizations that wished to track the movements of their marketing teams as they sifted through various areas to promote the products of the organizations. The two methods it used to transmit track details were either through a GPRS based internet connectivity or a simple SMS message, which was parsed on the server end. Education Bachelor's in Information Technology NATIONAL UNIVERSITY OF LANGUAGES - ISLAMABAD, PK 2014 Certificate in Web Development NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF ELECTRONICS - ISLAMABAD, PK 2010 High school or equivalent in Commerce PUNJAB COLLEGE OF COMMERCE - ISLAMABAD, PK 2009 Skills Qtp, Selenium, Database, Ms access, Ms sql server, Sql server, Oracle, Sql, Change management, Rup, Ui, Soap, Ms project, Rational, Sdlc, Visio, Mainframe, Ms office, Testing tools, Loadrunner, Python, QA, Quality Assurance, Manual Assessments Problem Solving — Completed August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/wjueojhuxlkt2md5 Data Analysis — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/pl-ybzlqsjoujnkf Search Engine Optimization — Familiar August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to interpret online website performance metrics and understand search engine optimization tactics. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/euoviqok0nt1kqvf Intermediate Word Processing with Microsoft Word — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's knowledge of intermediate Microsoft Word techniques including the use of formatting, Track Changes, and Comments. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/lytfiqcp7-spy2w3 Critical Thinking — Proficient August 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ddtzmvzwzrzkyeph Basic Computer Skills: PC — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/izyw7el6bytxkutb Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  METHODOLOGIES: SDLC, RUP, Agile, Waterfall  PLATFORMS: Windows, Mainframe  TESTING TOOLS: HP LoadRunner, WinRunner, QTP, SOAP UI, Selenium  CHANGE MANAGEMENT TOOLS: Rational Clear Quest, Mercury Quality Center  OFFICE TOOLS: MS Project, MS Office, MS Visio, Lotus Notes 8.5  DATABASE: MS SQL Server, MS Access Oracle