Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - Kubota Tractor Corporation Grapevine, TX Work Experience Full Stack Developer Kubota Tractor Corporation - Grapevine, TX September 2018 to Present Kubota Corporation introduced its first tractor to the United States. Filling a product void in the American marketplace for a sub-compact tractor, the Kubota 21.Kubota Tractor Corporation (KTC) was formed and the company continued to expand its product line for the US market. This expansion has continued over the next 40 years, and Kubota now offers products in a wide variety of segments including lawn mowers, utility vehicles, construction equipment, agriculture tractors and hay equipment. The company also serves as its customers' trusted partner, helping them manage increased customers and IT complexity and giving the finance to the third party vendors and help protect their business.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for developing a front-end application using React.js and FLUX architecture for internal team's productivity use.  • Used to design solution, implement, maintaining Java components and interfaces.  • By mapping concepts to workflows, Oracle Financial Services Lending and Leasing create an end-to-end solution built on proven, configurable processes for the complete consumer lending lifecycle including origination, servicing, collections and asset management.  • Used http with React.js interceptors to make sure the requests were valid and used UI-router to handle nested views and avoid page redirection.  • Involved in Enhancement of existing application utilizing React Js.  • Maintained Interface compatibility and concurrency in the project using Java 8 new features like default, static methods and Concurrency API.  • Designed and Developed Java Business Object Model BOM  • Implemented a highly scalable vertical and horizontal, performance efficient Drools architecture.  • Integrated JPA persistence using Hibernate in order to save the current state of the drools knowledge session using the Spring Framework integration.  • Used various bootstrap components like accordion, date picker, time picker, alert, and buttons, modal and also react-bootstrap components.  • Installed and configured JBOSS/Drools server with MySQL/Oracle persistence. Extracted rules data from the database and decision tables.  • Designed and developed client's website screens and front-end widgets using React.js.  • Used Java 8 Method References feature to point to methods by their names and used functional Interfaces.  • Have a experience in middleware/ interface development, ideally leveraging Kafka  • Create and maintain fully automated CI/CD pipelines for code deployment using Octopus Deploy and PowerShell  • Solid familiarity with all of the Scrum principles and practices and how they can be applied in an Agile team  • Strong knowledge of the interworking of Web applications and relational databases.  • Analyze user requirements; envision system features and functionality.  • Have good understanding of application (MobaXterm), server (WinScp, FileZilla,DB Visualizer), network security and compliance requirements.  • Supports users by developing documentation and assistance tools.  • Experience in Azure or AWS cloud environments.  • Used Gradle which is a build automation tool, it describes how software is build and it describes it's dependencies.  • Experience using tools such as Jenkins, Nexus/Artifactory.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST API s and Spring Boot for micro-services.  • Created a custom analytics framework to gather useful user behavior data using Mongo DB.  • Participate in research, extraction and entry of complex data while collecting and auditing information. Identifies and resolves errors in database. Focus on data integrity and data clean up.  • Act as primary interface between various departments, vendors and sister companies in order to obtain accurate data.  • Extract data from SAP and other systems to assure consistency and collect data for analysis. Use Excel and Access to merge and analyze information from multiple sources.  • Developed the application using Spring Framework that leverages classical Model View Controller MVC architecture.  • Developed UI using JSP HTML5 Tag libraries CSS3 JavaScript, Angular JS and AJAX.  • Built the internal tool and maintained with React JS along with Flux and Redux.    Environment: JDK 11.0.1, Azure 2.0.5, Spring Boot 2.0.1,log4j 2.8.2, Spring Framework 5.0.3, Apache 2.0, Maven 3.1, Jaxb-api 2.3.0, Spring MVC, Hibernate 4.0,Artifactory 4.7.3, JAX-RS Web services, Java 8, JAX-WS Web services, Apache CXF, JQuery 1.08, JQueryUI, AJAX, UML, MS Visio, JSTL, Oracle 11g, Web sphere, Appian 7.1, ReactJs, Eclipse 4.8, Junit, XMLSPY, Junit 4.1, EasyMock, JIRA, Rally, Jasmine, IntelliJ, Selenium, GIT, Bamboo CI, Cucumber, SoapUI, Fiddler, JMeter, Apache POI. Full Stack Developer Western Union, SFO, CA January 2017 to September 2018 Western Union moves money across the globe. Signing up on western union site is easy. With username, password and basic contact information we can sign-up and start sending money. We can send money to most of the countries. We can use our credit/debit card or bank account to fund the transfer. Also, we can transfer to recipient bank account or they can collect directly from a nearby agent. There will be small fee for this service, but money will available within minutes to the recipient. Recipients will get money in their local currency and currency conversion and rates are displayed very conveniently during the transfer. Also, we can verify everything before confirming the transfer.    Responsibilities:  • Designed UI patterns, UX patterns, GUI designs, page illustrations, and user conceptual designs, templates and banners using Adobe PhotoshopCS5 and Adobe Illustrator CS5.  • Designed and developed dynamic web pages using HTML5, Angular Js, Bootstrap, CSS, JSP.  • Java Stack development from scratch including Apache Tomee server setup.  • Writing RESTful APIs in Java and return logic on Angular data binding.  • Used HTML5 functionalities such as Local Storage, Web Sockets and Canvas.  • Successfully implemented Auto Complete/Auto Suggest functionality using Ajax, J-Query, DHTML, Web Service call and JSON.  • Designed and developed client's website screens and front end widgets using React.js.  • Writing unit tests in mocha, chai on server side and karma, jasmine on the client side.  • Writing deployment scripts in NgInx and PM2 to get the project up and running on dev sandbox.  • Using angular directives and services for developing interceptor and complex UI data table's grids.  • Made use of GRUNT CLI for minification, uglification on both server and client and running local server for client.  • Used $http with Angular.JS interceptors to make sure the requests were valid and used ui-router to handle nested views and avoid page redirection.  • Involved in Enhancement of existing application utilizing React Js.  • Maintain the code base by frequent updates to revision using GIT with GitSwarm as Repository.  • Experience in cross browser compatibility check and thoroughly performed unit testing using Karma and Jasmine.  • Used HP Quality Center to keep track of outstanding bugs to reduce downtime, increase productivity, and improve communication.  • Interacted with Testing Team, Scrum Masters and Business Analysts for Fixing of Issues.  • Primarily using Node Js, Express JS, MONGODB, Handlebars.js and NPM packages to integrate new functionality and maintain previous code.  • Migrated existing codebase from JSP to JS and HTML5 and rebuilt react components in ES6.  • Implemented a custom Node JS script to act as a PROXY for connecting to the server.  • Attended Daily standup meetings (Scrum), Estimation meetings and Requirement review meetings to analyze requirements for project  • Defined new validations through Angular.js for the form field validation implemented through HTML5.  • Defined custom HTML elements for API browsers using Google Polymers.  • Responsible for developing a front-end application using React.js and FLUX architecture for internal team's productivity use.  • Built the internal tool and maintained with React JS along with Flux and Redux.  Environment: MONGODB, Angular JS, Express JS, Node JS, React Js, Redux, Flux, NgInx, PM2, Mongoose, Azure AD JWT, HTML5, CSS3, Materialize, JavaScript, Angular Data-tables, Grunt, Bower, NPM, GIT, Mocha, Chai, Jasmine, Karma, WebStorm, Chrome, Firefox, IE 10+ Full Stack Developer E-Trade Financial - Menlo Park, CA October 2015 to January 2017 ETRADE Financial Corporation is a global company offering a wide range of financial solutions to the self-directed consumer under the brand ETRADE FINANCIAL. The Company serves retail, institutional and corporate customers. E*TRADE operates in two segments: Brokerage and Banking. The Brokerage segment generates revenues primarily from customer trading, market-making activities, proprietary trading, and margin lending and brokerage-related fees. I am Responsible for development and maintenance of automation regression suite for Retail Brokerage.    Responsibilities:  • Developed UI architecture for the internal web application and worked alongside UX designers to construct conceptual Wireframes and Mockups.  • Extensively used CSS3 and Bootstrap for styling the HTML elements within the whole application.  • Implemented CSS3 features like, multi-column layout, gradients and web fonts for the application.  • Responsible in providing pseudo application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Working with R&D team to create POC for AngularJS for a Single page application.  • Implemented a code to build Views and Models as part of MVC pattern using Angular JS  • Used ngroute service which is used in conjunction with the ng-view directive.  • Implemented two-way data binding through scope in applications built on Angular JS.  • Using AngularJS form validation and customize validations to validate the user input and improves the user experience.  • Implemented Routers & History in Single Page App (SPA) as a part of Angular.js implementation.  • Worked on multiple code bases as we were migrating to symfony2 from legacy PHP.  • Transformed current system into Services Oriented Architecture with REST APIs and application layers using Symfony2 framework.  • Utilized JQUERY UI library to create various components for the web application.  • Wrote code to handle cross browser compatibility issues in IE 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and FF by using Webkits for Safari Browsers.  • Developed next-gen UI components such as accordions by using pure CSS3 (Transitions, box shadow, transformations, etc.).  • Wrote Object Oriented JS code to create modules such as Validation Module, Dialog Boxes, Notification Boxes, etc.  • Used open source IDE Sublime Text and Eclipse as the Java IDE in the development of the application.  • Expertise in debugging tools such as Firebug and IE Dev tools to investigate the issues and fix the bugs.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Struts, JQUERY, AJAX, AngularJS, Eclipse, Git, Bootstrap, JSON, Symfony2, GIT, Rest Services, Eclipse, GitHub, Visio. Java Developer PCORI - Washington, DC February 2015 to October 2015 The Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute (PCORI) is a nonprofit, nongovernmental organization located in Washington, DC. PCORI helps people make informed healthcare decisions, and improves healthcare delivery and outcomes, by producing and promoting high-integrity, evidence-based information that comes from research guided by patients, caregivers, and the broader healthcare community.    Responsibilities:  • Participated in Agile Scrum methodology for application development. Analysis, design, coding, unit, and integration testing of business applications in an object-oriented environment.  • Designing a user Interface by extensively used HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ext JS and JQuery.  • Developed html views with HTML5, CSS3, JSON and Ext JS. Responsible for setting up Ext JS framework for UI development.  • Created Ext JS custom UI components and implemented UI MVC framework.  • Responsible for making AJAX Calls for getting the Data back as JSON and parsing it onto the UI and UI Interactions to the Controller Actions using Ext JS.  • Involved in Enhancement of existing application like creating HTML navigation menu that is role based wherein menu items changes dynamically based on the values derived from the database in the form of XML utilizing EXT JS.  • Troubleshooted and resolved production tickets in a timely manner. Responsible for deployments of the application in pre-production environments.  • Design and Implementing new features/enhancements. Analyzed and refactored service implementation to reduce SLA by applying optimized solutions.  • Interacted with different data providing teams by creating web-services (REST based). Created custom REST APIs using spring boot. REST APIs design and development - framework based on JAX-RS, Hibernate and spring.  • Created test suites and JUnit for different modules, collected and documented requirements for new forecasting models.  • Updated many pre-existing functional tests to reflect enhancement/changes in the code. Creating test cases with good functional and code coverages and help with automation of test suites.  • Extensively used Agile methodologies - Scrum Programming concept plan work for every iteration and used continuous integration tool to make the build passes before deploying the code to other environments.  • To automate the build process developed Maven scripts for various tasks and for the deployment of the application in JBOSS server by generating WAR and EAR files.  • Used Rally to keep track of iteration work which used to end for every two weeks. Helped in fixing bugs and maintained the current production code for other parallel projects.  • Used Jenkins for Continuous Development and Continuous Integration. Built, deployed various components using Jenkins fusion.  • Attended daily status meetings with the development and project management teams to discuss status, project timelines and testing strategies.  • Used Slack to communicate during daily work and while release days. Experienced on version control system GIT.    Environment: HTML, XHTML, DHTML, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, XML, XSL, XSLT, JSON, Notepad++, Sublime text, Tortoise SVN, Restful API. Java/J2EE Developer Intergraph - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2010 to November 2014 Intergraph is the leading global provider of engineering and geospatial that enables customers to visualize complex data. Business and governments in more than 60 companies rely on Intergraph's industry-specific software to organize vast amounts of data and infuse the world with, intelligence to make processes and infrastructure better, safer, and smarter. Involved in designing and developing web pages using HTML and CSS. Used JavaScript for custom client-side validation.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and implemented multi-tier applications using Java, JDBC, HTML, CSS J2EE, JavaScript, JAXB, Struts, JSF, and JavaBeans  • Analyzed the requirements and designed class diagrams, sequence diagrams using UML  • Implemented Java design patterns such as Data Access Objects (DAO), Business Delegate, and Singleton  • Strong skillset in the software development lifecycle (SDLC) design, implementation, analysis, deployment, and support  • Designed and developed UI screens with Struts using web.xml, struts-config.xml, validation.xml files for integration of all the components and to provide interactive screens for displaying data  • Implemented the Struts framework using it as the front controller of the web application in accordance with the MVC design pattern  • Worked on developing web services using SOAP, WSDL, and used SAX and XSD for parsing and processing XML documents  • Experience in writing DAO using Hibernate and Hibernate mapping files  • Developed business layer to create action classes, VO/beans to handle user interactions through forms and further integrated this with the WSS framework for handling backend functionalities  • Automated ANT build scripts to compile and package the application and monitored the error logs using Log4j  • Created shell scripts and PL/SQL scripts that were executed daily to refresh data feeds from multiple systems  • Worked on bug fixing, enhancements, and maintained the production environment as well as tested the systems  • Experience in software testing, Junit testing, regression testing, defect tracking and management using Clear Quest  • Excellent written and verbal communication skills, presentation and problem solving skills.    Environment: Windows, Unix/Linux, Java/J2ee, WebSphere Application Server, Servlets, JSP (EL, JSTL, Custom Tags), JSF, Apache Struts, Junit, Hibernate, Log4J Java Beans, JDBC, ANT, ClearQuest, SQL, PL/SQL, UML Education Bachelor's Skills Ms visual studio, Visual studio, C++, Git, Gradle