Sr. Salesforce Developer/ Lightning Developer Sr. Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span>/ Lightning <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Salesforce Developer/ Lightning Developer - SOAP UI Dublin, OH • 7+ years of IT experience with around 5+ years of experience as a Salesforce CRM Administrator, Developer.  • Hands on experience in SFDC development using the APEX classes, Triggers, Batch processes, S-Controls, Components, VF Controllers, Reports, Force.com IDE, Eclipse with SOQL, SOSL and Force.com plug-in.  • Expertise in standard Sales force configuration that include workflow rules, page layouts, Record Types, Approval Processes, Assignment rules, Validation rules, bulk Triggers, etc.  • Experience in data migration from ACT, Excel, MS outlook and Legacy Systems using Import Wizard, Data Loader, Cast Iron, SSIS.  • Experience in Force.com Visual Force, Batch Apex, REST, BULK API, SOAP based Web Services, Force.com API.  • Possess hands on experience of CRM processes like Sales automation, Marketing, Customer service and customer support, Business processes and recommended solutions to improve their processes using salesforce.com.  • Comprehensive knowledge in Web services API, SOAP API, APEX REST API, Analytic Snapshots, analyzing data with Reports and Dashboards.  • Experienced in Web technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript's and Java technologies like JDK, J2EE, JSP, and Servlets.  • Highly proficient with Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Service Max web service, Force.com, App-exchange on Salesforce.  • Experience in Business Intelligence Applications using Siebel Analytics / Oracle Business Intelligence (OBIEE) / Oracle Business Intelligence Apps (BI Apps).  • Good Experience on Salesforce Lightning. Experience in third party integration with ERP (Marketing Cloud, Service Cloud).  • Implemented Sales force Development Cycle covering Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Marketing Cloud Call, Center, Chatter & App-exchange applications.  • Extensive experience in using continuous integration tools like JIRA, Jenkins and bit bucket.  • Expertise in configuration, customization, custom development and support experience on salesforce.com platform and building custom objects, complex workflows, fields, ensuring high quality performance, maintainability, scalability and best practices.  • Ability to work with business analyst team to become familiar with the application requirement to analyze and recommend efficient solution within Salesforce configuration changes in support of enhancement requests.  • Good Knowledge on Salesforce packages and Lightning experience.  • Involved in various stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including experience in Integration of Salesforce with in-house legacy ERP systems using Apex Web services WSDL and outbound messaging. Good working knowledge in querying Salesforce com database using SOQL & SOSL with Force.com Explorer and handling Apex Governor Limits.  • Worked on customization and configuration with Functional Specification Document.  • Excellent team player, self-motivated, quick learner with good communication skills and trouble-shooting capabilities. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Salesforce Developer/ Lightning Developer SOAP UI - Columbus, OH May 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirements gathering with multiple project managers, in an effort to better customize, and utilize the full functionality of the Salesforce CRM solution.  • Moved the tables like Opportunities, Accounts and Contacts to the Salesforce CRM Standard objects.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, time-triggered tasks, email alerts and field updates to implement business logic.  • Integrated Apex with External services by making callouts that used SOAP API and WSDL.  • Customized the dashboards to monitor lead activities based on sales geography.  • Experience in Administration, Configuration, Implementation, Lightning, and support experience with Salesforce platform.  • Designed, developed and deployed the Custom objects, Page layouts, Custom tabs, Components.  • Written SOQL queries against force.com API.  • Used refined global search in Lightning by developing Apex classes and Controllers.  • Administrated and monitored the company's Salesforce sales cloud application by creating the workflows for automated lead routing, lead escalation and email alert.  • Used Force.com Eclipse IDE plug to develop the classes and triggers.  • Created modern Enterprise Lightning Apps combining Lightning Design System, Lightning App Builder and Lightning Component features.  • Setup and Implemented Salesforce marketing cloud 2.0 org.  • Developed different Visual force Pages to suit to the needs of the application using different Visual force components.  • Using Apex Data Loader mapped data sources and loaded data into Call Center application.  • Implemented packages in distributing and migrating components or applications within the organization.  • Integrated the Web services for extracting the data from external systems to display in the pages of Salesforce.  • Used Informatica Power Center in synchronizing SQL and Oracle to the Salesforce application.  • Designed, developed and deployed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Coded APEX triggers and s-controls, created rule based automated workflows.  • Created Formula Fields, Validation Rules, Workflow and approvals for the flexibility and functionality of force platform application.  • Created modern Enterprise Lightning Apps combining Lightning Design System, Lightning App Builder and Lightning Component features.  • Technical Knowledge in Lightning Experience and Lightning App Builder.  • Expertise on Testing REST API using Robot Framework and SOAP UI  • Manage users, Public Groups, Profiles, and Roles within the Salesforce CRM, this involved designating access to the applicable user within the user hierarchy.  • Implemented Salesforce Development Cycle covering extensively in Sales Cloud, Service Cloud and Call Center.  • Developed various Custom Reports and deployed them for different business user levels.  • Responsible for the creation of custom Apps, and Reports using the Salesforce CRM cloud computing model.  • Generated different reports like standard, summary and matrix for quarterly and half yearly sales.  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Participated in the training sessions provided by the Salesforce team.  Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visual force (Pages, Components, Controllers & Extensions), Salesforce.com Data Loader, Sales cloud, REST API, Informatica, Apex Triggers, Reports, Custom Objects, SOAP API, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, HTML, JavaScript, Web services, WSDL, SFDC Sandbox, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Oracle 10g, Windows XP. Sr. Salesforce Developer Wells Fargo - San Francisco, CA January 2017 to April 2018 Responsibilities:  • Worked on Web to lead, Web to case, Email to case, Case Assignment rules, Lead Assignment rules and Lead conversion.  • Configured of Salesforce.com application for various modules Accounts, Contacts, Lead and Activity.  • Worked on Selenium Framework to automate the test scripts.  • Finding /adding of the locators/Xpath in the locators.csv file  • Run the automated test scripts using the Test Data.csv file.  • Worked on manual testing.  • Extensively worked on Salesforce app design and development  • Set up Users, roles, profiles and Security settings.  • Visual force Pages for Lightning Experience, Alternates for Java Script Codes, Sharing Visual force pages between Classic and Lightning.  • Created new user accounts and configure Salesforce.com to fit security needs at the user and organization levels.  • Manage the discovery phase and the full SDLC for a portfolio of projects that included integrations, customizations and enhancements to the Service and Sales Cloud with a regional rollout for clients  • Customized records types, tabs, list views, column fields, page layouts and forms.  • Led the end to end delivery of a Salesforce.com projects which involve planning, assessment, design, developing, integrating, testing and deploying a Salesforce.com for Service Cloud and Sales Cloud  • Built Reports and Dashboards to drive key business decision.  • Created and maintained time dependent Workflow rules  • Generated SOQL queries upon request.  • Created Visual Force Pages and Apex Classes  • Performed tasks for Data Migration like Data mapping and Data loading.  • Wrote Test Cases for Classes and Triggers.  • Enabled and used API only user for performing regular updates from legacy system using REST API.  • Used the sandbox for Testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Wrote SOQL strong understanding of Relational Databases  • Set up remote site settings using end point URLs in client side SFDC using SOAP API.  • Consumed the partner WSDL and Apex WSDL and wrote the Apex code in client side to perform real time SOAP integration between two systems.  • Created a custom label in Salesforce to establish the connection with the source system as a part of integration.  • Wrote test class for the Apex code.  • Wrote Mock Test class for the Web services to check for the 75% code coverage.  • Used the wrapper classes in Apex coding extensively.  • Followed the governor limits while writing the Apex code.  Environment: Force.com Platform, Salesforce.com CRM, Apex classes, Lightning, sales cloud, service cloud, Marketing cloud integration, Marketing cloud, Apex Programming, Visual Force. Salesforce Developer Great-West Financial - Denver, CO July 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Lead the efforts of implementing our custom application (product) build on Force.com platform to various end customers (end clients).  • Extensive experience in creating managed and unmanaged Packages and deploying the latest versions (version updates or upgrades) on client environments.  • Work in Scrum Agile environment and actively participated in requirement gathering from business users from various end clients and perform gap analysis.  • Involve in design, development of the business requirements and implementing them on Force.com platform.  • Hands on experience in migrating native Visual Force pages and Components, Custom Buttons and object detail pages (setting up page layouts) to Lightning experience.  • Configure Reports, Dashboards and home page components in Lightning experience.  • Build Visual Force pages and components with custom controllers and controller extensions.  • Wired front-end application that is built on AngularJS with backend Salesforce system.  • Develop Apex classes, Triggers, Batch Apex, and Scheduled Apex using Salesforce best practices as per the custom business logic.  • Experience in building new Applications with the Lightning App Builder and Lightning components.  • Schedule Apex Schedulers to invoke batch classes at regular intervals based on the client requirement.  • Write synchronous and asynchronous apex methods to send out email communication based on the business requirement.  • Implement web service integration using SOAP API, REST API and Outbound Messaging application to establish communication between Salesforce and various external systems like DocuSign, Alloy, Fiserv and CUDL.  • Build web services classes by generating the necessary stubs from the WSDL files for extracting the data from the legacy applications.  • Write Apex Unit Test classes with a minimum of 85% code coverage ensuring to improve organizational code coverage.  • Develop apex code using Salesforce best practices ensuring smooth execution by avoiding any runtime exceptions and stay within the Apex Governor Limits.  • Extensive experience in working with Salesforce administration setups like Standard and Custom Objects, Page Layouts and Record Types.  • Create Junction objects to establish Many-to-Many relationships.  • Work on setting up Profiles and Roles and configure appropriate field level security as per requirements.  • Configure Workflow Rules and Process Builders to automate Tasks, Email Alerts, Field Updates, time - dependent actions and Outbound API Messages.  • Migrate data from external system into Salesforce and between various Salesforce orgs using Apex Data loader & CSV files.  • Support Production environments of various clients and resolve bugs field on priority basis.  Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Apex Language, Data Loader, HTML, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Lightning, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Sandbox data loading, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Windows. Salesforce Developer Wipro January 2014 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved with various business user groups for gathering the requirements for Salesforce implementation and documented the Business and Software Requirements  • Work on customization of standard objects like Lead, Account, Contact and Opportunity.  • Perform day to day User Management on SFDC Org by configuring Sharing Rules, Permission Sets Roles and Profiles.  • Created Custom objects, Custom Fields, Validation Rules, and Formula fields.  • Used Conga Composer for storing historical reporting data.  • Custom login VF page for the dealers to access the application.  • Creating Workflow Rules, Tasks, Email Alerts and components to suit to the needs of the application.  • Worked on Assigning creating Roles Hierarchy, Profiles and Security setup within the organization.  • Implemented Case Assignment Rules to direct the case to appropriate group such as Stories and PCS Central Support.  • Created Page Layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on records.  • Involved in designing, development and Testing of UI Applications using VF Pages and Apex classes, Apex Triggers as per requirement.  • Implemented the requirements on Salesforce.com platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse.  • Involved in Service Cloud, Sales Cloud Application Setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization.  • Created Triggers for email update for any new offer is released and Developed Batch apex along with combination of schedule apex to reduce the data for space utility.  • Used the sandbox for development, testing and code migration to Production.  • Created custom settings for seasonal offers like spring, summer etc.,  • Used data loader and data loader.io to store data into the database.  • Worked on Agile environment, in this we developed High-value features and delivered more quickly with short cycles.  • Updating of email and automated email will be send to the reps if any issue is raised by reps.  • Written Apex Test Classes for unit testing to ensure at least 75% of code coverage is met.  Environment: Salesforce.com, Conga Sales Cloud, Service cloud, Composer, Workflows, Rest, Soap, Apex, Visual Force, Triggers, SOQL, HTML, JavaScript, Web Services, CSS, jQuery, Bootstrap Data. Java Developer Othain Group - IN May 2012 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • As server developer I was actively involved in architecting various Business Layer and Data Management components of this multi-tiered web-based system over J2EE architecture, EAI and TIBCO.  • Designed and developed the messaging framework for communication between workflow manager and other Enterprise Applications over XML and MQ-Series using JAXB 1.0.  • Responsible for developing and maintaining all the entity and session beans.  • Involved in writing ANT script for application deployment.  • Developed various Customer and Network capacity flows. Developed various server-side components using J2EE and TIBCO APIs.  • Developed and deployed EJB components (business tier) into the Web Sphere Application Server (WAS).  • Designed the Metrics module and developed all the components of that. Also developed Metric Event Listener engine based on TIBCO APIs to capture In-Concert based events.  • Responsible for Web Logic administration, maintenance and performance tuning.  • Developed and deployed Servlets and JSP's on Tomcat server.  • Integrated different components to establish a stable flow and reviewed all the deliverables produced by the team.  • Written stored procedures to add, update and delete data from Oracle Database  • Used JavaScript for client-side validations, and AJAX to create interactive front-end GUI.  • Perform system requirements analysis, definition, allocation, and documentation.  • NISE-WFM interfaces with thirteen different systems. I actively participated in support for User and System test and lead the system performance improvement efforts.  Environment: J2EE, JSP, Java Beans, HTML, JavaScript, ANT, Tomcat Web server, Oracle 9i, MS Visual SourceSafe. Education Bachelors of Technology in Technology JNT University Skills Salesforce, Visualforce, SFDC, Soql, Apex, Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visual force (Pages, Components, Controllers & Extensions), Saledforce.com Data Loader, Sales cloud, REST API, Informatica, Apex Triggers, Reports, Custom Objects, SOAP API, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, HTML, JavaScript, Web services, WSDL, SFDC Sandbox, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Oracle 10g, Windows XP. (7 years), Java Links http://salesforce.com