ServiceNow Developer ServiceNow <span class="hl">Developer</span> ServiceNow Developer - Medtronic Montana, WV • Overall 9+ years of Professional IT Experience and 5+ years of Experience in ServiceNow platform as Developer, Administrator and as an Architect.  • Experience in Installation and Configuration of different modules of Service-Now.  • In-depth knowledge of the Technical implementation of Change Management, Incident Management, Problem Management, Service Catalog, Knowledge Management, Configuration Management, Reporting, Discovery and Integrations, Service Requests.Strong experience in JavaScript. Experienced in Project Portfolio Management (PPM)  • Implemented, configured and developed ServiceNow tools.  • Modified CMS, UI actions, UI policies,Data policies, workflows,Business rules, ACL's etc.  • Experience in SaaSsoftware configuration and development using Web Services and Simple Object Access Protocol, XML/RPC, and AJAX.  • Functional knowledge and implementation experience of IT Service Management (ITSM) frameworks and demonstrated project management skills and experience working directly with Customers and Clients.  • Strong knowledge in HTML, CSS, SQL, C, C++, JavaScript, Apache jelly etc.  • Implemented systems using the Agile/Scrum methodology.  • Have strong knowledge on Service portal. Have changed the layouts of widgets on a page, have done advanced customization.  • Built a portal using well known technologies.  • Used the websites such as twitter Bootstrap, CSS 3 flex box, angular JS etc.  • Worked on Orchestration which enables an IT organization to automate complex tasks on remote.  • Done web service integration using REST, SOAP and JSON  • Hands on experience on Active Directory, LDAP and Single Sign-On (SSO) Integration and IT PAM.  • Created Knowledge articles & mentored & trained business users & Helpdesk users on ServiceNow platform.  • Good understanding of ServiceNowtool functions - both frontend and backend operations  • Experience in Configuration of the tool to onboard Biogen Business applications into ServiceNow.  • The applications will be either on-perm, AWS or Azure  • Configured Workflows.  • Experience in Customizations - backend integrations to products like Turbot, CMDB and AWS.  • Forms for Office 365, SharePoint and MPP (some examples)  • Experience in AWS integration for numerous services (say EC2, EFS). ServiceNow will become front end for AWS and Azure  • Assist testing team on the functionalities to be tested  • Generated user signoff duration Report using Agile SDK.  • Configured Applications using Service-Now tool used in ITIL Management. Strong understanding of ITIL V3. Deep functional and technical knowledge of the Service Now platform as well as experience delivering medium to large-scale Service Now implementations.  • Expertise on creation of workflows for Service Catalog items in Service-Now. Created web applications using Python.  • Create, monitor, modify, and publish service catalog workflows with approvals. Maintain Single Sign-On integration.  • Experience on WebSphere clusters. Used to manage the Balance workload for the set of application Servers.  • Worked on current version of ServiceNow(Geneva) and upgraded to next version (Helsinki).  • Loads, manipulates and maintains data between Service Now and other systems.  • Configuration Development and development of Requirement Integration components (SSO, LDAP).  • Service-Now Administration and Production support including maintenance of lower life cycle instances. Familiar with versions Eureka, Dublin, Berlin.  • StrongHands on experience in web development using HTML, JavaScript and CSS.  • Experience in application development using Java/J2EE, JSP, Struts and spring team player, ability to work independently and in a team as well, ability to adapt to a Rapidlychanging environment, commitment towards learning and also a subject-matter expert (SME) having good knowledge in different technologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience ServiceNow Developer Medtronic - Minneapolis, MN February 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Technical implementation of various ServiceNow modules such as Change Management, Incident Management, Problem Management, Service Catalog, Configuration Management.  • Implemented best practice of ServiceNow Scripting, which enhanced the System performance.  • Implemented Risk Management for the Risk evaluation of the change Request associated with the Configuration Item.  • Communicated with end users, identifying their difficulties and changing the applications as per their requirements.  • Requirement gathering and designing for the customization to enhance AGILE import functionality.  • Requirement gathering and designing for the customization IT security legal report Enhance AGILE custom file download utility  • Worked alongside team members and leaders to build out our next-generation Business Process Consulting and Organizational Change Management consultancy.  • Defined and executed our customer's functional/operational target state transformation  • Enabled and empowered customers by solving business problems and delivering business efficiency gains  • Advised on all things functional and operationally related to ServiceNow implementation projects  • Developed functional process guides and workshop materials and techniques.  • Conducted Discovery workshops and serve as functional lead throughout the lifecycle of all engagements  • Participated in meeting with SME's and Project Managers to analyze the requirements and developing the workflow design of request items using Agile Methodologies.  • Created various front-end forms, and associated Client Scripts, UI policies, including advanced customizations that require modification of UI Pages/Macros.  • Designed Workflows, along with standard Workflow templates which can be reused.  • Planning and coordinating the execution of Implementation along with Technical/Business validations post every Maintenance/Major release in ServiceNow.  • Expertise on using DISCOVERY to load configuration information to CMDB.  • Developed Integration with System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM).  • Performing integrations and process automations using ServiceNowOrchestration or other mechanisms.  • Worked on Ebonding Integration plugin.  • Involved in customization of forms for various ServiceNow applications.  • Rendered data using Ajax and mustache template.  • Sr. Developer for Service Catalog, rating systems, Service Requests configurations, AD Integration using SAML, Integration of federated CMDB through ServiceNow Mid-Server technologies.  • Imported data into CMDB using Transform Maps and build relationships manually for CI's which are not in scope of discovery.  • Configured end to end process for Knowledge management and worked on the knowledge Centered Support (KCS) plugin.  • Configured multiple Catalog Items Front-end web / GUI components using JavaScript, Soap, web services, CSS, HTML5.  • Worked on UI Macros to create pages as templates on requirement from the stake holders.  • Configured multiple forms for Asset module using Configuration Management Database.  • Resolved typical Users access and roles issues by checking active directory and users table.  • Creating database views to pull the reports on variables that are being used by catalog items.  • Development and Implementation of Service Watch for Automation of IT operations Management (ITOM).  • Used Service Watch for discovering and mapping the relationships between IT components that comprise specific business services, even in dynamic virtualized environments.  • Written Catalog client scripts and UI policies to make client-side changes.  • Created the UI pages to use them in catalog items, implemented using UI scripts.  • Created Knowledge articles to document the steps in creating the catalog items.  • Worked on creating users, roles, groups and Configured LDAP Server and LDAP Listener for updating the user and group table record.  • Designed and created homepages including basic reporting, gauge configuration and dashboard presentation.  • Involved in performance tuning of the ServiceNow and also worked on System Diagnosis.  • Involved in documentation of business processes, functional requirements and conduct information flow analysis and process modeling within and across multiple business streams.  • Successfully implemented GRC by using the advanced features in Helsinki version.  • Worked on and implemented GRC, facilities, time, email, core ITSM, CMDB_CI, reporting and the service catalog modules.  • Eliminated errors and enhanced efficiency by automating the traditional GRC process.  • Worked with Orchestrationwhich enables an IT organization to automate complex tasks on remote computers reliably and quickly, with best practices every time.  • Orchestrated the efforts of vendors, and internal divisions/departments to internalize new IT Asset Management processes.  • Worked on automating the ordering process through Ebonding integration, so that provisioning can begin sooner.  • Managed a team of offshore developers and getting them aligned with the process.  • Scheduled cloning and migration of data from instances with ServiceNow.  • Worked on Configuring rules, monitors and management packs in SCOM and involved in testing reports for correct mapping of the objects and data.  • Involved in various ServiceNow customizations as per client's requirement and also in migration between various ServiceNow instances using Update Sets.  • Prepared documentation for requirements, design, installation, unit testing and system integration of ServiceNow.  • Created Test Plan and reviewed Test Cases.  • Created user manuals for all the users on using Info View and exporting reports to various formats.  • Managing ServiceNow (Change Management) ITIL Automate and standardize business processes for all Go-Lives. ServiceNow Developer Capgemini - Miami, FL July 2015 to February 2016 Responsibilities:  • Worked on the implementation of modules Incident Management, Knowledge Management, Service Catalog, Problem Management, Change Management, Managed Documents, Project Portfolio Management and GRC.  • Implementation of Project Portfolio Management in relation with Project Management and Demand Management.  • Scratch implementation of Governance, Risk and Compliance module involving setting up of workflow to track the action items and risks.  • Designed solutions to Problem Management module implementation based on client's requirements.  • Worked on creating Giantt charts to analyze the phase of projects within PPM module.  • Customized the Service PortalKnowledge Base and have strong experience in customizing widgets.  • Worked on configuring complex contractual Service Level Agreements between Capgemini and Carnival that calculates the performance on the operating unit level.  • Created customized reports to support contract requirements and created Scheduled Jobs to update the data in reports monthly.  • Extensive experience in Performance Analytics and Reporting module, used metrics to calculate the SLA measurement and capture progress.  • Worked on Client scripts, Business rules, Access Controls, UI policies and data policies using JavaScript.  • Re-designed Workflows using workflow editor for the modules Managed Docs, Knowledge Articles and reconciled complicated workflows to simpler form.  • Worked on configuring the catalog variables and created different catalog items that have different functionalities.  • Configured multiple Catalog Items Front-end web / GUI components using JavaScript, CSS, HTML5, Angular JS.  • Created Email Notifications for various modules like requested items, catalog tasks, Managed Docs by triggering events or approvals. Approval notifications and alerts to a specific group or a set of users.  • Actively involved in customizing the knowledge module, customized the knowledge submission workflow and form to meet the client requirements.  • Provided security to the Knowledge module and configured Access Controls and permissions for different knowledge articles.  • Worked on Test Management module customization for internal UAT among theCapgemini employees.  • Configured Managed Docs module that acts as a repository to maintain different documents within the organization.  • Worked on implementing user access to database using orchestration.  • Utilized Orchestration to extend Workflows to interact with systems and application code outside.  • Implemented catalog variable set to store and forward Service request data to orchestration workflows.  • Provided end-to-end solutions to automate applications and worked on workarounds to complex requirements.  • Building prototypes, mock-ups, workflow diagrams and deliverables.  • Implemented Service Mapping by using pattern based discovery and collecting the data about devices and applications.  • Worked on Project Portfolio Suite with Demand Management and Resource Management modules to configure the client scripts based on the client's requirements.  • Worked on Business Service mapping and wrote scripts in the sensors to map CI's so that the end user can have a graphical representation of CI's and their relationship through BSM.  • Experience in migrating between various environments in ServiceNow using Update sets.  • Strong team player, ability to work independently and in a team as well, ability to adapt to a rapidly changing environment, commitment towards learning, Possess excellent communication, project management, documentation, interpersonal skills.  • Strong experience working in Agile environment, gathering the stories from the product owners and interacting with the Business Analysts to design solutions and development.    Environment: Service-Now(Helsinki, Istanbul &Jakarta), Incident Management, Problem Management, Knowledge Management, Managed Documents, Test Management, Service Catalog, Performance Analytics. ServiceNow Developer/Admin Kodiak Networks - Dallas, TX March 2013 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Support activity resolve incidents and change management.  • Worked on Access Control Rules (ACLs) to restrict access.  • Worked in migration of Snow Fuji to Helsinki version.  • Perform day-to-day administration of the Service-Now tool.  • Develop necessary development documentation as needed (e.g. technical design, developer notes, etc.)  • Working and modification of configuration tasks including system policies, business rules and client scripts.  • Manages users, groups and roles and user administration.  • Manages data with Tables, the CMDB, Import Sets, and Update Sets.  • Setup MID Server used by Discovery and troubleshooting problems with the tool configurations.  • Creates Workflow activities and approvals. Implement new workflows that use a variety of activities to understand how records are generated from workflows.  • Working with Asset managers for reporting and administration of CIs.  • Transform mapping and modifications of CI status and worked on different CI changes by Change management tickets.  • Was involved with Asset Management, Service Desk and Discovery.  • Used CRM technology to organize, automate, and synchronize sales, marketing, customer service, and technical support.  • Involved in daily, weekly and monthly meetings with client on the work progress and discussions on the upcoming work.  • Educating end users on the usage of service now applications like incidents, problems and service catalogs.  • Performs migration activities (Dev to QA, QA to Prod)  • Worked on loading the data into ServiceNow using import sets.  • Imported Configuration Items (CI) from third party applications using import set tables Java Developer Madhees Techno Consultants Pvt Ltd April 2012 to March 2013 Responsibilities:  • Worked on persistence layer using O/R Mapping tool Hibernate with Oracle 10g Database  • Involved in End to End Design and Development of UI Layer, Service Layer and Persistence Layer.  • Implemented Spring MVC for designing and implementing the UI Layer for the application.  • Have Used Spring IOC to inject the services and their dependencies.  • Implemented Site mesh as the web page layout and decorating framework to aid in creating the consistent look and feel for the web application.  • Have used AJAX to retrieve data from server synchronously in the background without interfering with the display and existing page in an interactive way.  • Have Used DWR (Direct Web Remoting) generated script to make AJAX calls to JAVA.  • Involved in writing JavaScript for dynamic manipulation of the elements on the screen and to validate the input.  • Involved in writing Spring Validator Classes for validating the input data.  • Involved in writing complex PL/SQL and SQL blocks for the application. Java Developer GrowelSoftech Limited January 2010 to April 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases like design and development using Rational Unified Process.  • Worked on a project to develop online portal for administrators.  • Used Rational Rose for the Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams to represent the detailed design phase.  • Developed a web-based reporting for Credit Monitoring System with HTML, JSTL 1.2, Custom tags.  • Developed user interface on Jakarta Struts 1.1 Framework using JSP 2.0 and HTML.  • Used Java/J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate, Session Facade, Data Transfer Object (DTO) and Service Locator in the project extensively, which facilitates clean distribution of roles and responsibilities across various layers of processing.  • Developed Struts Action Class which route submittals via Business Delegate to Business appropriate components and render retrieved information.  • Used Web services for transmission of large blocks of XML data using (SOAP).  • Used XML and SOAP with SAX parser to transfer data between applications.  • Used Entity Java Beans for persistence.  • Used SQL stored procedures with JDBC API for storing, updating user request.  • Participated in database design using Oracle.  • Used Web-sphere Application Server 5.0 for deploying various components of application.  • Used Web Sphere Application Development for developing the application. Education Bachelor's Skills C++, Html, Javascript, Jdbc, Mysql Additional Information Technical Skills:  ITIL ITSM, ServiceNow (Helsinki, Geneva, Fuji, Eureka), JavaScript, HTML, CSS.  Programming Languages C, C++, Java script  Java JDK 1.6, Collections, Multithreading, Networking, Generics, Exception Handling, Files and Streams, JDBC    Software Methodologies SDLC, Waterfall, Agile, XP, Scrum, AGILE PLM,AGILE AIS  Databases Oracle DB, MySQL  IDE Eclipse, Net Beans, TOAD    PROFESSIONAL SKILLS