Java Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Innovative Software Development with big interest in learning cutting edge technologies and applying those to solve complex problems and make use the best out of it.    Career conspectus:  ? Having 5 Years 2 Months of working experience in development and maintenance.  ? Well acquainted on web application development and unit testing in JAVA/J2EE projects.  ? Experienced in Java 8, Spring Boot and Angular 4.  ? Experienced in view technologies like JSP and Thyme leaf.  ? Experienced in spring frameworks like Spring Security, Spring AOP and Spring Web MVC.  ? Experienced in data handling frameworks like Spring Data JPA, Hibernate and JDBC Template.  ? Experienced in scripting language like JQuery and JavaScript.  ? Experienced in web designing using Bootstrap CSS, HTML5 and CSS3.    Technical Skills Set:  Programming Java 8, Angular 4  Framework Spring 4, Spring Boot, Angular CLI, Mockito  ORM Spring Data JPA, JDBC Template  Operating System Windows, Linux  Database Oracle, PostgreSQL, DB2  Server Apache Tomcat, IBM WebSphere Liberty Server  IDE Eclipse, Spring Tool Suite, Visual Studio Code  Build Tool Maven 3  Others Bootstrap CSS, Java Script, JQuery, HTML, CSS3 Work Experience Java Full Stack Developer John Deere September 2017 to Present Date)  Project Name: Common Segmentation  Client: John Deere John Deere September 2017 to Present Environment & Framework: Java 8, Spring Boot 1.5, PostgreSQL, Angular 4, Junit, Mockito  Tools: Spring Tool Suite, Sonar, PgAdmin  Project Description: The application is responsible for interacting and managing data, generating report and chart from single end for multiple applications. The communication between all these applications handled using REST micro service architecture. This application specifically handles the common program details, team details and workflow of programs for all the applications. This application also responsible for generating charts and reports and export them in pdf, excel and power point formats. There is also a compare and import feature for compare all lined programs from different applications and update the accordingly.  Roles:  ? Understand the full functionality and system components and work as a Full Stack Developer.  ? Responsible for development of REST web services using spring boot.  ? Responsible for front-end design using Angular, Bootstrap and CSS3 etc.  ? Responsible for write unit test cases using Junit and Mockito.  ? Responsible for development functionality related queries for Postgres and Spring JPA. Telstra April 2017 to September 2017 Project Name: Sigma  Client: Telstra  Duration: April 2017 to September 2017  Environment & Framework: Java, Servlet, Oracle  Tools: Spring Tool Suit  Project Description: SIGMA Integration is a web based integration project. SIGMA Integration is in Telecom domain and it is responsible for act as bridge between Central Product Catalogue (called SIGMA) and the service consumers. SIGMA Integration is responsible for communicate between different channel.  Roles:  ? Understand the full functionality and system components and work as a Support Developer.  ? Responsible for resolve tickets and develop new feature or enhance system.  ? Responsible for development of functionality related queries. RBL Bank, IDBI Bank, Lakshmi Vilas Bank February 2016 to April 2017 Project Name: UPI Integration  Client: RBL Bank, IDBI Bank, Lakshmi Vilas Bank RBL Bank, IDBI Bank, Lakshmi Vilas Bank February 2016 to April 2017 Environment & Framework: Java, Spring Boot, Spring Web MVC, Angular, Bootstrap CSS, Spring Security, PostgreSQL, Oracle, Linux  Tools: Eclipse, PgAdmin-III, Oracle Developer  Project Description: Unified Payments Interface (UPI) is a system that powers multiple bank accounts (of participating banks), several banking services features like fund transfer (P2P), and merchant payments in a single mobile application. UPI has launched by National Payments Corporation of India with Reserve Bank of India's (RBI) vision of migrating towards a 'less-cash' and more digital society. UPI has built on the Immediate Payment Service (IMPS) platform. UPI used for multiple common banking tasks.  Roles:  ? Understand the full functionality and system components and work as a Developer.  ? Responsible for development of different REST services using spring REST API.  ? Responsible for development of web application for portal view.  ? Responsible for development of spring security integration for both REST service and web application.  ? Responsible for take logical action on testing report and functional bug.  ? Responsible for development functionality related queries for Postgres, Oracle and JPA.  ? Responsible for design related activity using HTML5, Bootstrap, Angular, CSS, JavaScript etc. West Bengal State Government May 2014 to December 2015 Project Name: West Bengal e-District  Client: West Bengal State Government Developer West Bengal State Government May 2014 to December 2015 WebSphere Application Server 8.5.5, IBM HTTP Server 8.5, IBM DB2 10.5, Linux.  Tools: Eclipse Luna, Toad, Tortoise SVN, iReport, WinSCP, Sonar 4.3.2.  Team Size: 15  Project Description: This application provides more than 40 services in two languages (English and Bengali) to citizen of West Bengal. It consists of two modules Application Submission and Application Process. In Application Submission citizen can apply for services and track their application. After completion of processing, citizen will get the certificate / license. In Application Processing Government, officials can take action on the submitted applications and give their feedback on actions. After successful completion of flow approving authority, provide a digitally signed certificate / license.  Roles:  ? Understand the full functionality and system components and work as a Developer.  ? Responsible for development of different services using Java, spring and Hibernate etc.  ? Responsible for take logical action on Sonar testing report.  ? Responsible for development functionality related queries in DB2.  ? Responsible for design related activity using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery etc. Education B-Tech in Computer Science & Engineering West Bengal University of Technology 2009 to 2013 Education West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary 2009 Board Of Secondary Education 2007