Sr. Mule ESB Integration Developer Sr. Mule ESB Integration <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Mule ESB Integration Developer - State Auto Insurance Columbus, OH • 9 years of IT Experience with over 4 years' experience in analysis, design, development and implementation of (EAI) Enterprise Application Integration using Mule ESB and Any point studio, IBM WMB, and over 4 years' experience in Java/J2EE, XML, Web services, spring, Hibernate, MVC and distributed architectures.  • Had strong working experience with Mule ESB, Mule API, Mule Any point Studio, Mule Cloud hub and RAML.  • Used Any Point Studio IDE and 3.8.3 & 3.9.1 Runtime for the development process.  • Developing and deploying mule project on Cloud hub.  • Experience on creating Flows, Sub Flows, Exception strategy, Data Weave transformation, and other activities.  • Experience using mule connectors like DB, HTTP, HTTPS, FTP, FILE, SFTP, JMS, Sales Force, Workday, SAP etc as a part of integration usage.  • Experience with Any point Partner Manager (APM) to Configure Trading Partners & Monitor B2B Transactions.  • Worked with relevant message processors in Mule ESB and also with all exception strategy handling, MEL (Mule Expression Language) and cron Expression.  • Experience with Mule Soft MMC and enterprise release.  • Strong application integration experience using MuleSoft ESB with Connectors, transformations, Routing, Exception Handling and Messaging using ActiveMq, and RabbitMQ.  • Worked on latest version of Mule studio and runtime.  • Involved in unit testing and writing the MUnit Test cases for the flow flows.  • Experience in providing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) solutions for Enterprise Application Integration (EAI) using IBM WMB, Web Service, and JMS.  • Expertise in analyzing, development, testing & coding of middleware\web applications primarily using Mule ESB\Mule API\ IBM WMB, MQ \ Java\J2EE.  • Eexpertise in designing web based Internet/Intranet, ESB, SOA and Application Development using Java/J2EE and always passionate about Latest and Cutting edge technologies.  • Worked with various kind of frameworks/technologies like Mule ESB, IBM WMB, Oracle Middleware, JSON, XML, EJB2, EJB3, Struts, spring, Hibernate, JSF, ADF, MVC architecture.  • Experience with and understanding of software design patterns and leveraging them to solve problems.  • Experience with build tools such as Maven as well as continuous integration tool such as Cruise Control, Jenkins.  • Expertise in Spring IOC design patterns to build the application services layer.  • Experience in using Apache Axis2 to develop web services.  • Experience in database access using Hibernate and JDBC.  • Extensive experience in building the data layer using O/R mapping technology such as Hibernate.  • Experience in Message Oriented Middleware implementation using JMS  • Experience with JMS both Synchronous and Asynchronous messaging.  • Experience in developing commercial applications using common J2EE Design Patterns such as Session Facade, Factory and Data Access Objects.  • Extensively used Eclipse, RAD, and RSA as IDE for application development and support.  • Extensively used Maven & ANT as build script for application build and deployment.  • Worked with Serena, VSS, CVS, SVN and Clear case for version control.  • Expertise in designing J2EE compliant systems for deployment on Web Sphere, Web Logic and JBoss application servers.  • Designed and coded application components in an agile environment.  • Expertise in Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) using Unified Modeling Language (UML) by using Microsoft Visio and Rational Rose.  • Strong Experience in database design using PL/SQL to write Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers and strong experience in writing complex queries, using Oracle 8i/9i, DB2 UDB 6.5, SQL Server 2000 and MySQL.  • Extensive experience working / supporting applications in Production, QA.  • Good communication skills, interpersonal skills, leadership skills, self-motivated, quick learner and team player Work Experience Sr. Mule ESB Integration Developer State Auto Insurance - Columbus, OH June 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Agile methodologies using Scrum for SDLC for project management.  • Work closely with functional leads/PMs/SA's to understand the partner integration requirement  • Prepared the technical specification documents (TSD'S) for all the services that are to be implemented.  • Used Mule ESB in designing the application as a middleware between the third-party system and the customer side system.  • Used Database Connectors to connect with respective systems using Mule ESB.  • Extensively used Mule OOB components like File Transport, FTP/SFTP Transport, JDBC Connector, and Transaction Manager.  • Designed and Developed Restful API's using API Designer & generated flows using RAML file.  • Used JMS to pass messages as payload to track different statuses, milestones and statuses to implement a workflow management flow.  • Done with integrations using connectors such as Sale force, HTTP, FTP and File Connectors.  • Created the MULE ESB artifacts, created flows and configured the MULE configuration files, install & deployed the application.  • Created http inbound & outbound flows, routing, orchestration, transformations and Security of MULEESB application using OAuth.  • Mule data mapping, connecting SOAP and REST web services to Mule and use of Mule connectors and plug-ins for web services, including MuleCXF as well as connectors for direct database access.  • Architected Integrations using Mule ESB environments for both on premise and cloud environments.  • Implemented choice, global, custom exception handling mechanisms based on the business requirement in MULE ESB.  • Implemented and consumed SOAP web services and tested using SOAPUI for Mule ESB flows.  • Used core java concepts like Collections, Generics, Exception handling, IO, Concurrency to develop business logic.  • Used MMC (mule management console) to monitor the request and response payload.  • Managed the whole API lifecycle from design to sharing using Restful API Modeling Language (RAML).  • Experience with integration Patterns, integration tools, EAI, Transformations, XML Schemas, and XSLT.  • Used Data Mapper as well as Data Weave for data transformations and data validations within flows & sub lows.  • Business requirements gathering and analysis by interacting with the customer.  • Configuring the Mule process for fetching the data from topic and makes web service calls to the middle tier Mule ESB for processing and put the data on the Cloud hub.  • Done with preparation of design document specifications, troubleshoots and testing.  • Involved in creation & deployment of the application, done with unit testing by writing the MUnit test case in Mule  • Involved in unit testing, integration testing, SOAP UI testing, smoke testing, system testing and user acceptance testing of the application  • Responsible to prepare deployment plan and do the production deployment to Cloud Hub using Jenkins CI platform.  • Involved in fixing QA/UAT/Production issues and tracked those using QC & Service now.  • Completing all the Release to Production formalities from raising requests to proper documentation.    Environment: Any point Studio 6.2.5, Mule Server 3.9.1, Mule Management Console, RAML, ActiveMQ, Apache-Maven 3.3.9,WinSCP, FileZilla 3.14.1, GITHUB,SVN, DB2, JMS, Confluence, Jira, Slack. Sr. Mule ESB Integration Developer Alliance Data Systems - Columbus, OH March 2017 to June 2018 Alliance Data Systems Corporation is a publicly traded provider of loyalty and marketing services, such as private label Credit cards, coalition loyalty programs, and direct marketing, derived from the capture and analysis of transaction-rich Data. ADS is a provider of integrated credit and marketing services including private label, co-branded and commercial credit card programs and manages over 135 card programs for retail brands such as Victoria's Secret, J.Crew, Eddie Bauer, Buckle, HSN, Pottery Barn and Pier 1 Imports.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible and active in the Analysis, Design, Implementation and Deployment of full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of Mule Soft project using AGILE process.  • Integration of Mule ESB system while utilizing Queues, Topics, Http, File system and SFTP transports.  • Implemented data transformation using XPATH, XSLT, Data Weave, custom java classes.  • Extensively used Mule components that includes File, SMTP, FTP, SFTP, JDBC Connector (Sales force, SAP, Data Base, HTTP, FTP) and Transaction Manager.  • Responsible in developing integration workflows using Mule ESB framework and implemented Data weave and content based routing using Mule ESB.  • Created mule flows for JAX-WS and JAX-RS web services.  • Extensive hands on experience in consuming as well as developing API's for SOAP and REST based Web services to integrate third party functional modules into the core application.  • Hands on experience in Mule Expression Language (MEL) to access payload data, properties and variables of Mule Message Flow.  • Design and Implemented RESTFUL Web Services using various data format (JSON, XML) to provide the interface to the various third party applications.  • Experience in MuleSoft Anypoint platform on designing and implementing Mule APIs.  • Hand-on experience with transformers, exception handling, testing & Security of Mule ESB endpoint through OAuth.  • Code walk-throughs, Mule Debugging and Error fixing.  • Extensively used Data weave for data transformation.  • Have written MUnit test cases to validate the Mule flows as part of unit testing and functional testing.  • Involved in achieving more than 75% of code coverage for unit tests, which was a requirement for committing to a repository.  • Splunk logs based validations and deployments.  • Involved in testing and deploying applications through Jenkins.  • Developed Mule flows to integrate Data from various sources into Database from ActiveMQ topics and queues and some transformations were also done at the integration layer.  • Developing Mule ESB projects for the services with synchronous and asynchronous Mule flows.  • Used Log4J components for logging. Perform daily monitoring of log files and resolve issues.  • Involved in installing and configuring Eclipse IDE, Ant, Web Logic and Maven for development.  • Actively involved in QA, UAT and production issues getting resolved.  • Used GIT as version controlling tool and Maven for building and deployed Application to CloudHub.    Environment: Java1.7/J2EE, spring, Web Services, MuleSoft ESB 3.8.4, Anypoint Studio, ActiveMQ, RAML, JSON, XML, Salesforce, SAP, JSON, Eclipse IDE, log4j, CVS, MUnit, Maven. SeniorJava & Mulesoft Consultant Health First - New York, NY March 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed the application using agile methodology and participated in Scrum meetings.  • Understanding requirement, technical analysis, design, development, Integration, maintenance, installation, implementation and testing of various client/server web applications.  • Having experience on designing Flows, Sub Flows, and Exception handling strategies, Data Weave transformation and Mule Expression Language (MEL).  • Excellent abilities to develop Message flows using Mule Studio 3.7.x, Any point studio 3.8.x across integrating variety of business applications with connectors including IBM Db2, SAP, Oracle DB, Salesforce, My SQL and using wide variety of Protocols including HTTP, HTTPS, REST, SOAP.  • Extensively worked on both Enterprise and Community edition of MULE ESB.  • Have an experience working MULE API manager and RAML.  • Migrated deprecated Data Mapper mapping to Data Weave in MULE ESB, API designer and various connectors to ensure robust and loosely coupled integration layer every time.  • Having application integration experience using Mule ESB with Connectors, transformations, Routing, ActiveMQ, JMS and Data Transformations using Mule ESB.  • Experience in troubleshooting Mule ESB including working with debuggers, Flow analyzer and configuration tools.  • Experience in the areas of Object Oriented Analysis (OOA) and Object-Oriented Design (OOD) using UML and SDLC of distributed applications.  • Hugely experienced in using Studio that integrates APIs, databases and SaaS applications and deployed applications to CloudHub and on-premise servers.  • Having experience with Workflow management & Batch processing.  • Expertise in developing and implementing Web applications using Java/J2EE Technologies including EAI, SOA, Hibernate, Spring, JSP, Struts, Servlets, Java Beans, JAXB, JMS, RMI, JSP Custom Tags Libraries, XML, Networking, Threads and JDBC.  • Extensively worked on XML technologies like XML, XSL, XSD, XSLT, XQuery, XPath and DTD for data transformations.  • Implemented Java Multithreaded programming to develop multithreaded modules and applications.  • Immensely experienced in writing SQL Queries, Oracle PL/SQL, JDBA and JPA along with good knowledge on MongoDB and MySQL.  • Used GIT as version controlling tool and Maven for building and deployed application to Cloudhub.  • Used MUnit for Mocking and Unit testing Mule flows.  • Used Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exception and for logging info and are helpful in debugging the issues.  • Done with Web sphere application server configurations, Data Sources, Connection Pooling, MQ Series Queues set up for messaging and deploying the apps on different servers in different environments.  • Effective communication and interpersonal skills, ability to work in a team/independently and adapt quickly to new and emerging technologies.    Environment: Anypoint Studio 6.2.5, Mule Server 3.8.1, Mule Management Console, RAML, ActiveMQ, Anypoint MQ, Apache-Maven 3.3.9, FileZilla 3.14.1,TFS, DB2, JMS, Eclipse, Munit. Java Developer Infosys March 2013 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed the application using Agile methodology and participated in Scrum meetings  • Designed use case diagrams, class diagrams, sequence diagrams and object diagrams to model the detail design of the application using UML.  • Designed UI layout using HTML, CSS3, JSP, AJAX, JavaScript, JQuery, and JSTL Taglibs.  • Worked on JavaScript to validate input, manipulated HTML elements using JavaScript, developed external JavaScript codes that can be used in several different web pages.  • Worked on MuleSoft Anypoint API platform on designing and implementing Mule API's.  • Strong knowledge and hands on experience in documenting and designing REST API's using RAML File.  • Consumed WSDL provided by Web Service using SOAP protocol to communicate with external applications and Vendors. Used Soap UI to manually connect to the web service and check data.  • Designed and developed ESB/SOA Mule flows for integration of services with underlying systems, following Established enterprise integration patterns based on latest Mule versions.  • Data transformation using built-in transformers, and Data weaver.  • Used Mule to configure Inbound and Outbound messages for message transformation between applications.  • Created Request transformer, Response transformers, Custom Components and configured them in Mule-config.xml.  • Used Mule Data Mapper, Custom transformers for mapping flat file structures to Salesforce interface structures.  • Worked on creating SOAP web services in Mule, Consumption of SOAP web services for downstream systems.  • Used DOJO Toolkit for UI development and sending asynchronous AJAX requests to the server.  • Worked on design and responsible for presentation layer and used the JSF and Prime Faces components to develop responsive UIs.  • Implemented Spring MVC Framework. Used Spring Dependency Injection to inject required services and spring AOP for the transaction management and logging.  • Implemented Persistence layer using Hibernate to interact with the Oracle database. Used Hibernate Framework for object relational mapping and persistence.  • Worked with JMS as messaging service and JTA for Transaction management. Using JMS to send email or notify clients who have subscribed particular services.  • Developed TestNG test cases for unit testing in Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Logging framework Log4J is used for log messages. Implemented Log4J for application logging and to troubleshoot issues in debug mode.  • Involved in Quality Control Activities such as defect tracking, fixing using JIRA.  • Used Gradle to build war and ear files to deploy on WebLogic Server and used Jenkins for continuous integration.  • Used source configuration management version controller as a Clear Case.    Environment: Java 1.6, Spring - IOC, Mule ESB 3.3/3.5.1, RAML, Anypoint, MVC, Hibernate, JPA API, IBM WebSphere application server 8.1, Oracle 11g-SQL & PL/SQL, RAD, Clear Case, Maven, Web Services- REST, SOAP, AXIS, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, TestNG, Soap UI. Java Developer Fonteva February 2012 to March 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering system requirements for the application and worked with the business team to review the Requirements.  • Developed UI, presentation layer using JSF Framework, HTML, CSS, DHTML, and JavaScript.  • Involved in development of middle layer business methods, which incorporated the core business functionality using singleton beans.  • Developed code for MVC architecture using Struts framework using Action Form, Action Class and Action Mapping.  • Developed iBatis in Data Access Layer to access and update information in the database.  • Used iBatis object relational data mapping framework to persist and retrieve the data from database.  • Wrote SQL commands and Stored Procedures to retrieve data from Oracle database.  • Developed Message Driven Beans (MDBs) for receiving and processing data from IBM MQ Series using JMS.  • Consumed REST web service to expose the business methods and application logic to external services.  • Done with WebLogic server configurations set up & deploying application.  • Used Test driven development framework is JUnit.  • Enhanced proper application logging functionality using log4j API.  • Involved in evaluating the code quality using Check style tool.  • Used Maven for building and deploying Application.  • Used EMMA tool for measuring and reporting java code coverage.  • Used source configuration management version controller as a SVN.    Environment: Java, JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript,Struts2.x, iBatis, Oracle11g, WebLogic11g, IBM MQ, REST, log4J, JUnit, EMMA, SVN, Maven, RAD. Java Developer Reliance March 2010 to January 2012 Ecommerce application provides services such as Group life Insurance, Disability insurance and Long Term Care Insurance. The application processes new businesses, Claims and generation of bills. Implemented the extensive SOA platform using different SOA principles, which includes insurance modules. Analyzing and transforming legacy applications into new technologies.    Responsibilities:  • Developed numerous Stateless session beans, which in turn made use of DAO for accessing data from the database and returned it to the caller.  • Worked on complete Server Side and contributed to the front-end development with the implementation of Action Classes.  • Responsible for creating the presentation logic in JSP and Servlets.  • Implemented Business Objects between and the communication object between modules / tiers.  • Implemented J2EE Design Patterns (Session Façade, Business Delegate, Business Object)  • Performed unit testing for the module.  • Design and implementation of front end web pages using CSS, JSP, and HTML, Java Script, DHTML and Struts tag library.  • Developing a mechanism for sending and receiving SOAP messages over JMS by MQ Series Engine  • Developed Web Services using Apache AXIS tool.  • Implemented Web Services using SOAP protocol, UDDI, WSDL and Service oriented Architecture(SOA) Concept  • Implemented AOP and IOC concept using Spring Framework.  • Used Crystal Report tools to generate data sources  • Used XML and XML parsers like DOM, SAX  • Implemented open source log4j logging framework in whole application.  • Used CVS as a version-controlling tool for managing the module developments.  • Extensively involved in Unit testing and coordinated with the testing team and fixing Bugs at various stages of the application development.  • Ran check styles, find bugs and configured EMMA tool for test coverage    Environment: Java, J2EE ( Java 1.4, Servlets 2.4, JSP 2.0, JSTL, Struts 1.1, LDAP, EJB 2.0, JDBC 2.0, JNDI), JAXB, UML Oracle 9i, XHTML, XML, HTML, CSS, Java Script, WebLogic Application Server 9.2, Windows NT/2000 Education Bachelor's Skills Apache (4 years), Database (6 years), HTML (4 years), Integration (5 years), INTEGRATOR (5 years), J2EE (4 years), java (8 years), JAXB (3 years), JDBC (5 years), JMS (7 years), Oracle (6 years), SDLC (3 years), SOAP (7 years), SQL (4 years), Struts (4 years), testing. (7 years), UML (5 years), web services (5 years), XML (7 years), XSLT. (3 years) Additional Information SKILL SET:    Programming Languages: Java, C, C++, SQL, PL/SQL, XML UML.  J2EE Technologies: RMI, JNDI, JDBC, EJB(Session Beans, Entity Beans), JMS/MDB, JAXP, JAXB, JPA, Web Services  Frameworks: Custom MVC, Struts 1.x/2.0, Spring 3.x/4.0 - MVC, IOC, JDBC Template, Hibernate, JSF, JSON.JSTL, Tag Libraries, JQuery  Frontend Technologies: HTML, CSS, DHTML, JavaScript, AJAX, JSTL, Custom Tags, jQuery  XML Technologies: XML, XSL, XSLT, SAX, DOM, JAXP, JAXB.  Database: Oracle, DB2, My SQL, SQL Server - SQL, HikariCP  Web Services: WSDL, SOAP  Application/Web servers: IBM Web Sphere, Web Logic, Apache Tomcat and JBoss.  Operating Systems: Windows 98/NT/2000/XP,MS DOS,UNIX  IDE: Eclipse, My Eclipse, RAD  Version Control Tools: CVS,SVN, Git Hub  Testing: Junit, Mockito,Munit, Integration Testing  Other Tools: File Zilla, Ultra Edit, Edit Plus, QC, Jira  Integration Tools: MuleSoft ESB, Informatica  SDLC Methods: Waterfall Model, Agile - SCRUM.