Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Client - Bank of America Charlotte, NC • 8 years of experience working in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), which includes User Interaction, Business Analysis, Design/Architecture, Implementation and Deployment of Enterprise and Web based applications using Java, J2EE technologies.  • Strong application development practice in using Modern Software Development methodologies like Agile and Traditional software models like Waterfall.  • Experience in developing static web pages using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap and responsive web design using JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, React JS and Redux.  • Developed the application using Java 8 features like Streams, Lambdas Expressions, Functional Interfaces, map and for each functions.  • Used Spring MVC framework at the Web tier level to isolate each layer of the application so that complexity of integration will be reduced, and maintenance will be very easy.  • Worked on conversion of monolithic web application to Micro Services architecture.  • Handled operations and maintenance support for AWS cloud resources which includes launching, maintaining and troubleshooting EC2 instances, and S3 buckets, Dynamo DB, Relational Database Services (RDS).  • Proficient in implementing applications using Spring framework (Spring MVC, Spring Dependency Injection, Spring Boot, Spring Data) and ORM frameworks like Hibernate.  • Proficient in developing Restful Web Services using Jackson and Jersey.  • Strong work experience in application integration and communicating using SOA, Web Services such as JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI AND XML over HTTP, Apache CXF, JAX-B, XSD, Axis 2.  • Good knowledge in field of Data Structures, Algorithms and various design patterns.  • Experience in implementing Design Patterns like Singleton, Factory, MVC, Composite, Prototype and Facade.  • Proficient in core java concepts like Collections, Multi-threading, Generics, Serialization, Threads, JavaBeans, Files and Externalization.  • Extensive experience working with RDBMS such as MySQL, Oracle and PostgreSQL.  • Experience in working with the NoSQL Database MongoDB to manage extremely large data sets.  • Expertise in Creating Hibernate configuration file, Hibernate Mapping files and defined persistence classes to persist the data into Oracle Database.  • Secured the API's by implementing OAuth2 token-based authentication/authorization scheme using Spring Security.  • Experience on different IDEs such as Eclipse, IntelliJ and Spring Tool Suite (STS) and deployment using Application Servers like Apache Tomcat, WebLogic, WebSphere and JBOSS.  • Actively involved in setup automated Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Development (CD) through Jenkins for the application.  • Experience in working with version control systems like GIT, GitHub and Bit Bucket.  • Hands on experience in build tools like ANT, Maven & Gradle. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Client - Bank of America - Charlotte, NC September 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  * Involved in Full Life Cycle of Software Development from Analysis through Design, Development, Integration and testing phases.  * System built using Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture. Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several design patterns such as Session Façade, Business Delegate, Bean Factory, Singleton, and Observer.  * Developed Web services to allow communication between applications through REST over HTTP using Metro.  * Designed and implemented application using JSP, Spring MVC, JNDI, Spring IOC.  * Implemented transaction management using Spring AOP.  * Configured JPA to use Hibernate as ORM tool.  * Used jQuery to simplify the client-side scripting of HTML and used DOJO widgets package for handling browser incompatibilities and IO package for AJAX support.  * Configured Maven dependencies for application building processes  * Used AngularJS directives to extend HTML to create the foundation for rich and complex web application.  * Used Web services - REST for getting credit card information from third party.  * The Restful web services have been used to retrieve and update the data using Ajax.  * Used UNIX commands and shell scripting.  * Used Angular JS $http service to consume RESTful services.  * Used MongoDB as data storage and utilized aspects like replica sets, sharding and clever document design to make service extensible scale and feature wise.  * Used Jasmine, Karma for unit testing and end-to-end testing to verify Angular JS modules and JavaScript utility routines.  * Jax-RS is the framework used and results are made to be in JSON format. Results are used for displaying on UI pages.  * Used Maven to build application and deploy on the server  * Used AGILE methodology and actively participated in Scrum meetings to produce quality deliverables within time.  * Implemented Spring Validators, persistence layer, and service layer components using Spring/Hibernate API and Spring/Hibernate annotations. Extensively used Hibernate QL.  * Wrote services to store and retrieve user data from the MongoDB for the application on devices  * Extensively used Spring IOC, configured Application Context files and performed database object mapping using Hibernate annotations.  * Installed application on AWS EC2 instances and also configured the storage on S3 buckets.  * Designed RESTful web services with JSON representation for handling AJAX requests Used Advanced Rest Client plug-in to run the rest API's on local host Tomcat Server for Unit testing  * Configure and monitor numerous MongoDB and NoSQL instances.  * Developed Web pages using UI frameworks, AngularJS, Html5, CSS, JavaScript, and JQuery.  * Upgraded existing UI with HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Bootstrap  * Responsible for creating an instance on Amazon EC2 (AWS) and deployed the application on it.  * Installed, secured, and configured AWS cloud servers and Amazon AWS virtual servers (Linux).  * Worked in an Agile environment using SDLC tools like GIT, Jira, Jenkins, and Maven for build packaging and deployments of the application components.  * Used Grunt as the JavaScript task runner. Jenkins, ANT tools were used part of build management.  * Used Maven in building and deploying the WAR and JAR files.  * Created application using Spring MVC, JSP, JSTL and AJAX on the presentation layer, business layer is built using spring.  * Developed views and controllers for client and manager modules using Spring Batch, Spring Bootand Spring Core.  * Developed REST based Web Services using XML/JSON messages that were used by the front end.  * Consumed SOAP based web services, created stubs using Apache Axis.  * Implemented PL/SQL queries and used oracle stored procedures.  * Developed client request validations and processing using JavaScript.  * Deployed applications on WebSphere Application Server and performed required configuration changes.  * Implemented monitoring and established best practices around usage of Elastic search.  * Worked in Test Driven Development (TDD) using JUnit.  * Used Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exception and for logging info and are helpful in debugging the issues.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Spring 4.0, Hibernate 4.1, JMS, XML, REST, AngularJS, Grunt, WSDL, AJAX, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, JQuery, CSS, GIT, Log4J, JAXB, JSF, JUnit3.8, WebLogic 10.3.5, Eclipse Indigo, Oracle 10g, Spring boot. Sr. Java Developer Client - BCBS - Detroit, MI June 2015 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  * Involved in Full Life Cycle of Software Development from Analysis through Design, Development, Integration and testing phases.  * System built using Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture. Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several design patterns such as Session Façade, Business Delegate, Bean Factory, Singleton, and Observer.  * Developed Web services to allow communication between applications through REST over HTTP using Metro.  * Designed and implemented application using JSP, Spring MVC, JNDI, Spring IOC.  * Implemented transaction management using Spring AOP.  * Configured JPA to use Hibernate as ORM tool.  * Used jQuery to simplify the client-side scripting of HTML and used DOJO widgets package for handling browser incompatibilities and IO package for AJAX support.  * Configured Maven dependencies for application building processes  * Used AngularJS directives to extend HTML to create the foundation for rich and complex web application.  * Used Web services - REST for getting credit card information from third party.  * The Restful web services have been used to retrieve and update the data using Ajax.  * Used UNIX commands and shell scripting.  * Used Angular JS $http service to consume RESTful services.  * Used MongoDB as data storage and utilized aspects like replica sets, sharding and clever document design to make service extensible scale and feature wise.  * Used Jasmine, Karma for unit testing and end-to-end testing to verify Angular JS modules and JavaScript utility routines.  * Jax-RS is the framework used and results are made to be in JSON format. Results are used for displaying on UI pages.  * Used Maven to build application and deploy on the server  * Used AGILE methodology and actively participated in Scrum meetings to produce quality deliverables within time.  * Implemented Spring Validators, persistence layer, and service layer components using Spring/Hibernate API and Spring/Hibernate annotations. Extensively used Hibernate QL.  * Wrote services to store and retrieve user data from the MongoDB for the application on devices  * Extensively used Spring IOC, configured Application Context files and performed database object mapping using Hibernate annotations.  * Installed application on AWS EC2 instances and also configured the storage on S3 buckets.  * Designed RESTful web services with JSON representation for handling AJAX requests Used Advanced Rest Client plug-in to run the rest API's on local host Tomcat Server for Unit testing  * Configure and monitor numerous MongoDB and NoSQL instances.  * Developed Web pages using UI frameworks, AngularJS, Html5, CSS, JavaScript, and JQuery.  * Upgraded existing UI with HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Bootstrap  * Responsible for creating an instance on Amazon EC2 (AWS) and deployed the application on it.  * Installed, secured, and configured AWS cloud servers and Amazon AWS virtual servers (Linux).  * Worked in an Agile environment using SDLC tools like GIT, Jira, Jenkins, and Maven for build packaging and deployments of the application components.  * Used Grunt as the JavaScript task runner. Jenkins, ANT tools were used part of build management.  * Used Maven in building and deploying the WAR and JAR files.  * Created application using Spring MVC, JSP, JSTL and AJAX on the presentation layer, business layer is built using spring.  * Developed views and controllers for client and manager modules using Spring Batch, Spring Boot and Spring Core.  * Developed REST based Web Services using XML/JSON messages that were used by the front end.  * Consumed SOAP based web services, created stubs using Apache Axis.  * Implemented PL/SQL queries and used oracle stored procedures.  * Developed client request validations and processing using JavaScript.  * Deployed applications on WebSphere Application Server and performed required configuration changes.  * Implemented monitoring and established best practices around usage of Elastic search.  * Worked in Test Driven Development (TDD) using JUnit.  * Used Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exception and for logging info and are helpful in debugging the issues.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Spring 4.0, Hibernate 4.1, JMS, XML, REST, AngularJS, Grunt, WSDL, AJAX, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, JQuery, CSS, GIT, Log4J, JAXB, JSF, JUnit3.8, WebLogic 10.3.5, Eclipse Indigo, Oracle 10g, Spring boot. Java/J2EE Developer Client - Biogen - Morrisville, NC August 2013 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  * Involved in the complete SDLC including design of System Architecture, development of System Use Cases based on the functional requirements.  * Involved in Daily Scrum (Agile) meetings, Sprint planning and estimation of the tasks for the user stories, participated in retrospective and presenting Demo at end of the sprint.  * Designed and coded controller classes using J2SE that would talk to real hardware controller to access their states and gave the user control over the hardware through the multithreaded UI.  * Used HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, AngularJS and JavaScript to construct the dynamic web pages (presentation Layer) for the application.  * Spring Transaction is used for the degree of isolation to work with other transactions and to execute within a transaction scope to run that transaction and used to check out before timing out of the transaction.  * Designed and developed application using Spring Framework modules like Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring boot and handled security using Spring Security OAuth.  * Parsed the data to project to client and handled the security and Authorization using Spring Security.  * Spring MVC model integration for front-end request action controller and Spring AOP for logging purposes.  * Used Spring IOC for dependency injection and developed controllers for handling Http requests and providing Http response.  * Developed REST and SOAP based Web Services for data retrieval to make it independent of the current application.  * Implemented RESTful web services using JAX-RS and Jersey as provider.  * Implemented Service Oriented Architecture by SOAP based Web Services with JAX-WS and WSDL.  * Worked on XML and JSON for transferring and retrieving data between different applications.  * Involved in using JPA ( Java Persistence API) frameworks and API's as JDO and Hibernate.  * Developed the DAO layer for the application using Spring Integration and Hibernate template support.  * Established connection to Oracle database with Spring Integration, Hibernate and created POJOs for mapping with the database tables.  * Implemented PL/SQL procedures and views in My SQL Database. Developed MySQL stored procedures and triggers using SQL to calculate and update the tables to implement business logic.  * Used Maven as build automation tool and deployments are on Web Sphere Application Server.  * Worked with Apache Kafka as a messaging service for activity tracking of an application.  * Worked on DAO's to pull the data from the source Databases and converted into JSON formats and then published into Kafka Streams.  * Jenkins for Continuous Integration and Spring Tool Suite (STS) IDE for application development.  * Developed test cases for Unit Testing, Integration Testing with JUnit.  * Collaborated with testers and developers and prepared test plans for producing high quality software applications  * Worked on Log4j for logging errors, messages and performance logs.  * Retrieving code from the repository and deploying in Production using ANT.    Environment: Java, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, jQuery, AngularJS, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring Security, Hibernate, JDBC, REST, SOAP, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, WSDL, JAX-RS, Jenkins, MySQL, Kafka, Service Oriented Architecture, Oracle, PL/SQL, Unit Testing, JUnit, Log4j, Maven, Web Sphere Application Server, Jenkins and Spring Tool Suite (STS). Java Developer Client - Sprint - Overland Park, KS December 2011 to July 2013 Responsibilities:  * Involved in Requirements gathering, Designing, Coding, Unit testing and Integration Testing phases of the project.  * Responsible for design and development of UI screens for the application using HTML5, JavaScript, AngularJS, jQuery.  * Implemented RESTful web services to make rest calls from client to server.  * Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in spring framework using Dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IOC).  * Used Spring JDBC and Spring Hibernate to manage Data Access with DAO design pattern.  * Used Spring Boot and developed the application as micro services.  * Developed Spring Batch processing java application to read different file formats which feeds to the database.  * Implemented JMS using Spring JMS module to communicate with queues.  * Created builds using Maven and pulled the project code from GitHub repositories.  * Used Jenkins as CI tool.  * Wrote Stored Procedures and complex queries in Oracle 12g database.  * Developed integration modules for disparate clients using Apache Camel.  * Consumed and built web services in SOAP, REST supporting both XML and JSON by taking advantage of Spring technologies.  * Developed the Presentation layer using HTML 5, JavaScript, and used AJAX/ jQuery based rich UI for improved customer experience.  * Developed single page application by using Angular JS.  * Integrated configured Camel with Active MQ to use it as bus.  * Deployed in Linux environment and used Tomcat as application server, UNIX shell scripts for data migration and batch processing.  * Developed test cases using Junit, TestNG and created stubs using JMockito framework.    Environment: JDK 1.7/1.8, J2EE, Core Java, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular JS 2.0, jQuery 2.0, JSON, Maven 3.0, Spring 4.x, JPA, JDBC, Jenkins, Apache Tomcat 8, Apache Camel, Active MQ, Git, Eclipse IDE, Junit, Linux, Windows. Jr. Java Developer Client - Reliance Communications - IN August 2010 to November 2011 Responsibilities:  * Developed the application based on MVC architecture.  * Captured all the functional and technical requirements of the Supply Chain Management System.  * Adapted Java Design Patterns DAO, Value Objects and Session Facade to develop business components.  * Development of GUI for HTML and JSP Versions. Java Servlets were used as the common gateway interface between the client and server.  * Used cascading style sheet (CSS) in web pages to separate presentation from structure.  * Java Beans were used to handle business logic as a Model and Servlets to control the flow of application as Controller.  * Established connection with JDBC to persist data to My SQL database.  * Involved in collecting requirements from Business Users and Data Modeling and designing and developing Tools using Java, Servlets, EJB, and JSP.  * Front end validations are written using JavaScript.  * Performed Unit Testing using JUnit.  * Provided a User Manual and User Training on the new system to ease them into the new system.    Environment: Java, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, JDBC, JSP, Servlets, DAO, My SQL, Junit, EJB. Education Bachelor's Skills BEA, BEA WEBLOGIC, ECLIPSE, EJB, J2EE Additional Information Skills:    Languages  J2SE (Core Java), J2EE, JSP, JDBC, JSON, Ajax, EJBs, JavaScript, JSF, Angular JS, Ext JS, HTML5, Dhtml, CSS 3, Bootstrap, JSF, XML, XSD, XSLT, XPATH, SQL, PL/SQL, WSDL, JUnit, Regular Expressions.    Frameworks/ORM Spring, Hibernate, MyBatis, Struts 1.2, JSF, Apache CXF, Apache Camel.  Web Technologies/J2EE JSP, Servlets, EJB, Jquery, JSTL, AJAX, XML, JavaScript, AngularJS, EXT JS, HTML5, CSS3, JSON, XSLT, XML, JNDI.  IDE's Eclipse, My Eclipse, NetBeans, IntelliJ IDEA, Spring Tool Suite (STS).  Databases Oracle 10g/11g, MySQL, SQL Server, DB2 and Cassandra, Mongo dB (NoSQL database).  Web Services RESTful web service, SOAP, WSDL, JAX-RS, JAX-WS JMS, JAXB. UDDI, Axis2, Apache- CXF, MDB, MQ Series, AWS (Amazon Web services).  Version control/Build Tools Git, SVN, CVS, Clear Case, Jenkins, Maven, Ant.  Testing Tools JUnit, JMock, JMeter, Selenium, Mockito.  Web/Application Servers BEA WebLogic, Tomcat and JBOSS 5.1/6.0, IBM Web sphere 5.1/6.0/6.1, Glass fish.  Operating Systems Windows XP/Vista, Unix, Linux (Red Hat, Ubuntu, Fedora).  Design Patterns  Singleton, Abstract Factory, Business delegate, Service locator, Model View Controller, Session facade, DAO, Composite, Adapter, Proxy.    Project Management Tools JIRA, HP Quality Centre (QC), Rally.