Sr. Full Stack Java Developer Sr. Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Full Stack Java Developer - Morgan Stanley New York, NY • Over 7 years of IT experience in analysis, design and implementation & testing of Object oriented applications in the client/server, webservices, distributed, integrated environments using J2SE andJ2EE.  ? Extensive development experience in object oriented analysis, design and programming (OOA/OOD/OOP) throughout complete SDLC in various models like Waterfall and Agile.  ? Proficient in writing ANT, Maven builds script to automate the application build and deployment.  ? Experienced with Perl, Shell scripting and test automation tools like Selenium RC, WebDriver and Selenium Grid.  ? Developed Python Mapper and Reducer scripts and implemented them using Hadoop streaming.  ? Involved in various projects related to Data Modeling, System/Data Analysis  ? Experienced in customizing Selenium API to suit in testing environment.  ? Strong hands-on experience with Spring IO, Spring Boot with Thymeleaf.  ? Experienced in working on DevOps/Agile operations process and tools area (Code review, unit test automation, Build & Release automation, Environment, Service, Incident and Change Management)  ? Experienced in performing Data driven testing to validate the components displayed on the website using Selenium.  ? Implemented Frame work for Selenium scripts using Java.  ? Strong experience in Spring framework modules such as Spring MVC, IOC, AOP, JDBC, JTA, IO, Spring Boot, Spring microservices, Spring REST, Spring Eureka, Spring Ribbon, Spring Netflix, Spring Zuul, Spring Security.  ? Nearly 2 years of experience in the Oracle PL/SQL Developer/Tester in Analysis, Design, Data Modeling (Logical and Physical), and Implementation of Business Applications using the Oracle Relational Database Management System(RDBMS)  ? Solid Knowledge of MySQL and Oracle databases and writing SQL Queries.  ? Experience in Micro services development using spring boot and deployment in Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF).  ? Vast knowledge of utilizing cloud technologies including Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure and Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF).  ? Proficient in developing the application using JSF, Hibernate, Core Java, JDBC and Groovy and Grails presentation layer components using JSPs, Javascript, XML and HTML.  ? Experience in Back End Development including Web services, Data service layers  ? Extensive working experience in free marker,Struts framework, Spring framework and O/RMapping Hibernate framework.  ? Implementation of SOA using Web Services and MQ (with Java Messaging Service (JMS) & Taco EMS).  ? Had excellent knowledge in using Jasper soft API's / middle layer.  ? Designed and coded Hibernate, struts for mapping, configurations and HQL for enhancement and new module development of Transport Optimization, Planning and Scheduling Web app.  ? Good experience in using Amazon Web Services (AWS) and AWS SNS/SQS for delivering messages.  ? Development of Cloud deployed applications.  ? 4+ years of experience in core AWS services (S3, EC2, ELB, EBS, Route53, VPC, Auto scaling etc.) and deployment services (Elastic Beanstalk, Lambda, OpsWorks and Cloud Formation) and security practices (IAM, Cloudwatch and Cloudtrail).  ? Experience in creating comprehensive web applications using MEAN stack implemented with MS SQL, Express, Angular 2/4 and Node.js, Java8.  ? Hands on Experience on Angular 2 technology for one complete project in rebasing the UI of the application using the techniques in Angular 2/4.  ? Used Groovy and Grails with spring, Java, J2EE for user interface.  ? Initiated the Automation framework using Selenium Web Driver to run test cases in multiple browsers and platforms.  ? Highly motivated software engineer and experience in developing in web applications using Javascript, Backbone.js and Coffee script technologies.  ? Good knowledge in developing multi-threading applications.  ? Expertise in writing JUnit test cases for different kind of applications and also development experience in mock object to simulate real objects.  ? Very good knowledge in different development methodologies like SDLC and Agile.  ? Experienced in developing applications using all Java/J2EE technologies like Servlets, JSP, EJB, JDBC, JNDI, JMS etc.  ? Experienced in developing applications using HIBERNATE (Object/Relational mapping framework).  ? Experienced in developing Web Services using JAX-RPC, JAXP, SOAP and WSDL. Also knowledgeable in using WSIF (Web Services Invocation Framework) API.  ? Thorough knowledge and experience of XML technologies (DOM, SAX parsers), and extensive experience with XPath, XML schema, DTD's, XSLT, XML SPY, MAP Force editor.  ? Experience in Message based systems using JMS, TIBCO & MQSeries.  ? Experience in writing database objects like Stored Procedures, Triggers, SQL, PL/SQL packages and Cursors for Oracle, SQL Server, DB2 and Sybase.  ? Provided technical assistance for integration of Appian systems along with external systems such as SAP.  ? Conducted detailed analysis to support designing and development of BPM applications.  ? Sound experience in Agile development methodologies like TDD and BDD and implementation of tests with selenium, cucumber/capybara in Ruby  ? Implemented Hadoop based data warehouses, integrated Hadoop with Enterprise Data Warehouse systems.  ? Experienced in working with version control systems like GIT and used Source code management client tools like GitBash, GitHub, Git Lab  ? Lightbend Reactive Platform plus many other Scala libraries and frameworks.  ? Confluent Platform (Apache Kafka and its ecosystem) and Reactive Kafka  ? Used Bootstrap and Angular.JS, React.js and Node.js in effective web design.  ? Experienced developing against SOLR Search Platform APIs  ? Experience in developing the applications which can talk to NoSQL Databases like Mongo and Couch DB.  ? Proficient in writing build scripts using Ant & Maven.  ? Experienced in using CVS, SVN and Sharepoint as version manager.  ? Proficient in unit testing the application using Junit, MRUnit and logging the application using Log4J.  ? Expert in implementing dynamic web applications using Application Servers like BEA Web Logic, IBM Web Sphere and Apache Tomcat and deploying in various environments like Windows and Linux.  ? Hands on experience in using Integrated Development Environments like Eclipse 4.2.x/ kepler/Indigo, Net Beans, Cold Fusion and RAD 7. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Full Stack Java Developer Morgan Stanley - New York, NY October 2017 to Present Responsibilities:    ? Implementation of SOA using Web Services and MQ (with Java Messaging Service (JMS) & Taco EMS).  ? Involved in SDLC requirements gathering, analysis, design, development and testing of application developed using AGILE methodology.  ? Architected and developed new or enhance existing front-end portal for cloud provisioning, continuous integration and devops  ? Created continuous integration builds using Maven and Jenkins and deployed on WebSphere application server.  ? Deployed services in Spring Cloud using Pivotal Cloud Foundry with PCF CLI client  ? Deployed applications on multiple JBOSS Instances and maintained Load Balancing, High Availability and Fail over functionalities.  ? Developed the application under J2EE Architecture using Spring, Hibernate.  ? Extensively using core java concepts like Synchronization, Collections, Multi-threading, exception handling for developing applications.  ? Worked on different module of Spring including Spring MVC, Spring ORM and Spring Boot.  ? Extensive use of HTML5 with Angular4, JSTL, JSPand jQuery for the presentation layer along with JavaScript for client-side validation.  ? Actively involved in architecture of DevOps platform and cloud solutions.  ? Developed user interface by using the React JS, Flux for SPA development.  ? Utilize Camel to integrate microservices with other microservices and RabbitMQ messaging exchanges.  ? Implemented react JS code to handle cross browser compatibility issues in Mozella, IE 7, 8, 9, Safari and FF.  ? Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application  ? Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  ? Applied design patterns including MVC Pattern, Factory Design Pattern and Singleton Design Pattern  ? Enforced referential integrity in the OLTP data model for consistent relationship between tables and efficient database  ? Developed REST API's using Spring MVC and Spring boot , hosted all micro services on PCF  ? Developed normalized Logical and Physical database models to design OLTP system for insurance applications  ? Developed Golang based web services on AWS and Google App Engine  ? Implemented client side functionality using HTML 5, Bootstrap, AngularJS 4.0 and JQuery, Sencha Ext JS.  ? Proven ability in developing BDD scripts with Cucumber and writing step definitions for behavior  ? Experience in Automation testing using Selenium Web Driver, JUnit and Maven.  ? Used Apache Kafka (Message Queues) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information between multiple business applications. Involved in developing an automation tool, in Java and Scala on Akka Framework  ? Worked on Drools Rules Engine and Expectation Rule Engine for writing Business Rule Validation.  ? Integrated the Drools and JBPM to application framework, which involved dynamic creation of knowledgebase and Knowledge session.Created Scripts to Automate AWS services which include web servers, ELB, Cloud front Distribution, database, AWS EC2 and database security groups.  ? Setup the continuous Integration (CI) and continuous Deployment (CD) process for the application using the Jenkins.  ? Developed critical components of the application including Spring forms, Spring controllers, JSP views, and business logic and data logic components that include Hibernate Entities, Spring-Hibernate DAO and Spring models following MVC architecture.  ? Implemented POC for Notifications and Appointment module using RESTful Microservice using Apache Camel framework using Java8.  ? Consumed Web Services by implementing Spring REST support is to make the development of RESTful Web services  ? Conducted Automation testing using the Standards, guidelines and structured methodology in testing the application.  ? Responsible for writing the Design Specifications for the generic and application specific web services in Groovy n Grails.  ? Developing Restful web service development in Grails.  ? Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST API's and Spring Boot for micro-services.  ? Developed PCF based Microservices to expose the key Identity management features on the cloud.  ? Used Java-PHP bridge code to integrate Java with PHP.  ? Extensively worked with Hibernate Query Language (HQL) to store and retrieve the data from Oracle database.  ? Created automated security test cases using Cucumber and Mockito.  ? Used Jenkins to build and Release  ? In-depth RDBMS experience in Microsoft SQL Server; Expert T-SQL programming skills including query optimization, stored procedures, views and functions; Ability to read, interpret and improve query execution plans  ? Implemented design patterns in Scala for the application.  ? Java/Spring Machine Learning POC project to improved results for Nuance based Voice control/search feature with use of Maximum Entropy models.  ? Integrated GitLab into Jenkins to automate the code checkout process.  ? Implemented & maintained the branching and build/release strategies utilizing GIT.  ? Proficient in AWS services like VPC, EC2, S3, ELB, AutoScalingGroups(ASG), EBS, RDS, IAM, CloudFormation, Route 53, CloudWatch, CloudFront, CloudTrail.  ? Responsible for overall Docker & Kubernetes setup, configuration and Architecture.  ? Configured and maintained a large scale Docker based PaaS environment using Kubernetes  ? Used Java 8 features like stream and Lambda expressions  ? Part of the team installed and configured Hadoop Map Reduce and HDFS.  ? Expert in implementing unified data platform to gather data from different sources using Kafka and Java Producers and consumers.  ? Used Agile and Kanban frameworks to manage the product development workflow.  ? Designed and implemented Cassandra NoSQL based database and created REST enabled Web Services.  ? Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Development of Cloud deployed applications API design and development to support intra-cloud and extra-cloud application integration Jenkins and GitHub and AWS AMI's, Whenever a new github branch gets started, Jenkins, our Continuous Integration server, automatically attempts to build a new Docker container from it, The Docker container leverages Linux containers and has the AMI baked in. Converted our staging and Production environment from a handful AMI's to a single bare metal host running Docker.  ? Create RFP (Request for Proposal) microservice to provide RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  ? Using cloud foundry to push application to Predix cloud.  ? Created, implemented and managed Pivotal Cloud Foundry deployments  ? Integrating spring with Elastic search.  ? Implemented Apache Kafka to provide a unified, high-throughput, low-latency platform for handling real-time data feeds  ? Experience in managing multi-tenant Cassandra clusters on public cloud environment - Amazon Web Services (AWS)-EC2.  ? Developed Python/Django application for Google Analytics aggregation and reporting.  ? Explored Spark, Kafka, Storm along with other open source projects to create a real-time analytics framework.  ? Managed servers on the Amazon Web Services(AWS ) platform instances using Chef Configuration management.  ? Used Accurev for Version Control. Recently moving to Bitbucket.  ? Designed the enriching layer with the data attributes for the interfaces between Java applications and Thunderhead.  ? Worked on migrating the old java stack to Type safe stack using Scala for backend programming.  ? Refactoring PREMIER provider as a Springboard application with Distributed solution using core Java8.  ? Designing and Developing the Web portal Applications, web services, JBPM workflows, Back end Queuing.  ? Actively involved in upgrading AWS EMR version.  ? Designed and implemented dynamic Web content and Web server applications using AngularJS, Angular 4,Typescript, Javascript, HTML, XML, RESTful Web services and simple object access protocol (SOAP).  ? Wrote the REST API Script to verify the IVR command prompt.  ? Worked on Angular 4 migration with NodeJs on the server side.  ? Developed Enterprise Service Bus layer using Mule ESB.  ? Involved in integration with Process Management team using Apache Camel, Drools BRM/BPM.  ? Developed Mongo DB embedded documents from java code using spring data MongoDB.  ? Implementing Spring MVC and IOC methodologies.  ? Handled adding and deleting of nodes along with monitoring of Cassandra Cluster.  ? Refactored the code for JVM Optimization and performance of application.  ? Implement multi-channel cloud based telephony solution.  ? Developed common reusable component libraries (CRUD Scaffolding) to be reused in different projects throughout the company's IT team using GWT, Sencha, Spring data, JPA.  ? Implemented application specific exception handling and logging frame work using Log4j.  ? Involved in complete development of 'Agile Development Methodology/SCRUM' and tested the application in each iteration.  ? Created an XML schema for the Solr search engine based on the Oracle schema.  ? Migrated web service applications from Tomcat to Web sphere Application Server in Linux environment.  ? Design, develop and implemented Behavior data driven (BDD) automation testing framework utilizing Java, Cucumber and Selenium Web Driver.  ? Wrote Scala classes to interact with the database.  ? Responsible for migrating the code base from Cloudera Platform to Amazon EMR and evaluated Amazon eco systems components like RedShift, Dynamo DB.  ? Developed micro services using spring boot exposed as REST API and integrated with AngularJS based web applications.  ? Installed Hadoop, Map Reduce, HDFS, and Developed multiple map reduce jobs in PIG and Hive for data cleaning and pre-processing.  ? Worked on POC's on Angular 4 using Typescript.  ? Django framework was used to make changes to the code in order to access Python libraries for the data transfer.  ? Used Hive Queries in Spark-SQL for analysis and processing the data.  ? Worked with NoSQL database to store JSON like dynamic connections data.  ? Also worked on documentation of Solr Rest API.  ? Implemented Core Java Methodologies like Interfaces, Collections, Customized Exceptions and Multi-Threading.  ? Python, Django, MySQL were used to create the complete application.    Environment:Java8/7/6, Spring4, JavaScript, Hibernate, Maven, HTML, CSS, JMS, XML, XSLT, SOAP,TDD, Unix, Web2.0, Oracle, Ci/CD, SQL, JMS, MongoDB, JDBC, Spring MVC, Micro Services, JSON. Sr. Full Stack Java Developer Excella - Washington, DC March 2016 to September 2017 Responsibilities:    ? Developed, Installed and configured Hive, Hadoop, Big data,hue, oozie, pig, sqoop, Storm, Kafka, Elastic Search, Redis, Java, J2EE, HDFS, XML, PHP, Zookeeper, Flume and Oozie on the Hadoop cluster.  ? Developed REST services to talk with adapter classes and exposed them to the Angularjs front-end.  ? Worked with NoSQL and Big data technologies such as Mongo db, Cassandra, Hadoop.  ? Worked on Javascript to validate input, manipulated HTML elements using Javascript, developed external Javascript codes that can be used in several different web pages.  ? Used React JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  ? Deployed Spring Boot based micro services Docker container using Amazon EC2 container services and using AWS admin console.  ? Converted a monolithic app to microservices architecture using Spring Boot using 12 factor app methodology. Deployed, Scaled, Configured, wrote manifest file for various Microservices in PCF.  ? Designed and developed backend application servers using Python.  ? Used React JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  ? Implemented methods to validate, invalidate, keepalive session for login process and maintaining session credentials.  ? Developed REST services to talk with adapter classes and exposed them to the Angularjs front-end.  ? Worked with PHP to contact with database.  ? Programming experience in node.js, mongo db, Java and MySQL.  ? Involved in localization and internationalization of web pages using JSON, XSL, XML, and Angular.js.  ? Hands on experience in using Laravel Framework to develop a web application.  ? Designed Frontend with in object oriented Javascript Framework like bootstrap, Backbone.js, Require.js, Node.js, Express.js, Angular.js and Ext.js.  ? Experience in Automation testing using Selenium Web Driver, JUnit and Maven.  ? Conducted Automation testing using the Standards, guidelines and structured methodology in testing the application.  ? Deployed production site using Apache 2.0 with mod_Python.  ? Migrated the server using the AWS services to a cloud environment.  ? Experienced with the Spark improving the performance and optimization of the existing algorithms in Hadoop using Spark Context, Spark-SQL, Data Frame, Pair RDD's, Spark YARN.  ? Performed File system management and monitoring on Hadoop log files.  ? Implement the JavaScript/jQuery frameworks such as React.js, Node.js for MVW/MVC framework.  ? Very capable at using AWS utilities such as EMR, S3 and Cloud watch to run and monitor Hadoop/Spark jobs on AWS.  ? Good Exposure on JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, node.js, backbone.js, typescript, micro  services, Restful APIs, Elastic Search, JQuery, Junit, bootstrap and Angular JS.  ? Participated in database design/analysis and designed ER diagrams  ? Implemented NO-SQL DB (Mango DB/Cassandra) to store poisoned messages.  ? Implemented build stage-to build the Micro Service and push the Docker Container image to the private Docker registry.  ? Designed table architecture and developed DAO layer using Cassandra NoSQL database.  ? Worked and Performed Tuning and Query Optimization in AWS Redshift and micro services.  ? We used the most popular streaming tool Kafka to load the data on Hadoop File system and move the same data to Cassandra NoSQL database.  ? Extract the data from Oracle and push to Apache Kafka Queue using Golden Gate.  ? Designed and developed the application using agile methodology and followed TDD, Scrum.  ? High use of Selenium in collecting client's information, development, identifying test cases, compatibly testing, automation of test scripts, Flex application testing and design, requirements review, design review, test plan review.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Built application logic using Python.  ? Strong Knowledge in Hadoop Development Tool such as HDFS, MapReduce, PIG, HBASE, etc.  ? Worked on CakePHP, Laravel Framework and Wordpress CMS.  ? Proficient in building Web User Interface (UI) using HTML5, DHTML, table less XHTML, CSS3 and Javascript that follows W3C Web Standards and are browser compatible.s  ? Implemented application level persistence using Hibernate and spring.  ? Configured Struts, Hibernate framework with Spring MVC.  ? Set up Selenium tools from scratch and configured various other peripherals tools to perform Selenium test.  ? Experience Working on Selenium ,QC, Rally, QTP, LoadRunner, JMeter, Fiddler, SOAP UI, REST/SOAPtestingand API testing  ? Expertise in MVC Architecture using JSF and Struts framework and implementing custom tag libraries.  ? Developed the application using Struts Framework which is based on the MVC design pattern.  ? Choose HTML, CSS& Bootstrap for designing part and Symfony2 as development part &MySQL as the database.  ? Deployed the application on Weblogic Application Server cluster on Solaris environment.  ? Deployed EJB Components on WebLogic.  ? Creation of REST Web Services for the management of data using Apache CXF.  ? Architecture& Designed the Restful web services and developed core component layers like xml validation, core service layer, solr search and transformation components.  ? Development of AJAX toolkit based applications using JSON.  ? Developed additional UI Components using JSF and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX (JQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience.  ? Involved in the development of presentation layer and GUI framework using EXTJS and HTML. Client Side validations were done using Javascript.  ? Integrated Spring DAO for data access using Hibernate used HQL and SQL for querying databases.  ? Involved in adding AJAX, Javascript components to some of the JSP pages wherever needed.  ? Developed user interface using JSP, AJAX, JSP Tag libraries and Struts Tag Libraries to simplify the complexities of the application.  ? Developed REST services to talk with adapter classes and exposed them to the Angularjs front-end.  ? Developed user interface using JSP, JSTL and Custom Tag Libraries and AJAX to speed the application.  ? Developed Servlets and JSPs based on MVC pattern using Struts framework and Spring Framework.  ? Experience developing the administrative UI using Angular JS and Node JS.  ? Designed and developed client and server components of an administrative console for a business process engine framework using Java, Google Web Toolkit and spring technologies.    Environment: Java 1.8, Eclipse, J2SE, J2EE, JAX-RPC, JSP, HTML5, CSS, JSP, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, XML, Servlets, APEX Triggers, SOA, JBOSS Fuse, Struts, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Restful Web services, Microservices, PL/SQL, Oracle, ANT, CVS, Junit. Full Stack Java Developer Commerce Bancshares - Kansas City, MO May 2014 to February 2016 Responsibilities:  • Used Agile Methodologies and SDLC for managing life-cycle development of the project.  • Translated client's business requirements into use case models  • Designed and developed application using JSP Custom Tags, Struts tags &JSTL tag libraries.  • Developing the J2EE Application using IBMRAD6.0,Oracle Database and SpringIOC Framework and deploying to IBMWAS6.0 application server  • Web UI development using JSP, CSS, SOA and Javascript.  • Implemented Gradle, Hibernate 4.0, HQL and Criteria API have to fetch the data from SQL database with STORM.  • Used Struts 2.0, Freemarker and Grails Framework in the application, which is based on MVC design pattern.  • Working with Crystal reports for developing and bug fixing in the reports which has OracleSQL as the database.  • Involve in the Analysis, Design, and Development and Unit testing of business requirements.  • Participated in database design/analysis and designed ER diagrams  • Designed and implemented user interfaces  • Followed MVC Structure and used AngularJS to develop Single page Application.  • Responsible for tracking the issues to get them resolved by interacting with customers and various other teams involved  • Implemented business logic at Server side in Core Java, and Java EE Architecture  • Used Selenium extensively for automation of test scripts for test re-usability and modularization; automating manual test cases; controlling framework from Excel file; using batch execution of multiple test classes  • Experience in Building Selenium framework to test a web application end to end using both RC Server and Web Driver; testing the compatibility of different browsers in different platforms; fixing/debugging of Automation test scripts for complex business logics.  • Worked as backend developer of this app using Nodejs, Socket io and mongo db.  • Performed web testing using Selenium for checking page contents, broken links, web objects, frames and tables.  • Development of frontend (Client side) using JSP, CSS, JQuery, Javascript  • Development of backend (Server side) using Core Java, and Java EE  • Persisted data from database, leveraging Hibernate and SQL Server 2008  • Used Spring Core for middle tier development to achieve inversion of control  • Proficient in Node.js, Mongo db, Redis and Linux flavor.  • Developed Server side components using Hibernate and spring framework with JAXB.  • Responsible for creating issuances and deployments into development, implementation and production servers.  • Used HDFS to store the files and process them using Hive, Pig and Java Map-Reduce Codes.  • Designed and developed backend application servers using Python.  • Created custom user defined functions in Python language for Pig.  • Managed application deployment using Python.  • Involved in developing frontend screens using JSF, JSP, Struts View Tags, JSTL, XML, XSLT, HTML, CSS, AJAX, Web2.0, JAVA SE technologies, Javascript, JQuery.  • Used SVN for versioning control system.  • Extensive use of HTML, JSTL, JSP and JQuery for the presentation layer along with Java script for client side validation.  • Experience Working on Selenium, SOAP UI, REST/SOAP testing and API testing.  • Analyzing the SQL queries and optimizing the performance for increased productivity.  • Developed Backend using Node.js and saving data.  • Used PHP, Python, MySQL, HTML, Ajax, Javascript, Jquery.  • Implemented business logic and generated WSDL for those web services using SOAP.  • Designed the test cases for above modules in FDA and documented the same for testing team.  • Developed internal application using Angular.js and Node.js connecting to Oracle on the backend.  • Experience in performance tuning of Cassandra and implementation of agile-scrum methodology.  • Involved in complete infrastructure setup and configuration of WebLogic Application Server 10.3.2/11g on UNIX and LINUX.  • Worked on the modernization of a legacy and outsourced UI. Technologies used were Angularjs, Backbonejs, Node.js and JQuery.  • Involved in the development of presentation layer and GUI framework using EXTJS and HTML. Client Side validations were done using Javascript.  • Install KAFKA on Hadoop cluster and configure producer and consumer coding part in Java to establish connection from twitter source to HDFS with popular hash tags.  • Written test scripts for the components developed using React JS.  • Hands on and implementation of Jenkins Continuous Integration, Module Testing, Software Configuration Management and Debugging.  • Experience in designing and developing UI components using Jsp, Javascript, HTML, DHTML, HTML5, CSS, AngularJs, JSTL, Tomahawk tag libraries, Tiles, Custom TagLibraries, AJAX, JQuery.  • Hands on experience in Automation Testing using QTP 10.0 ,QC 9.2, and Selenium Java Client driver.  • Lead the development of the initial HTML5/Javascript/CSS3 UI for application based on Backbone.js, jQuery and Bootstrap.  • Implemented MVC architecture using spring and Struts frameworks combined with EJB 3.0 and JPA 2.1 for database persistence.  • Working as a developer in developing the business and user interface classes using Groovy and Grails.  • Used Knockout JS framework for UI-Model View binding  • Handling administration for Agile PLM and Maintaining the Data flow from ERP to Agile and Agile to data mart.    Environment:Java7, J2EE, JavaScript, Spring IOC, AOP, MVC, jQuery, Spring4,SOAP& Restful, Apache CXF, WSDL, JUNIT, Mockito, JMS, PHP, Scrum, Design Patterns, Servlet, JSP, XML, SVN, MySQL, SQL, Log 4J, JBOSS, CSS3, Struts. Java Developer Stifel - St. Louis, MO January 2013 to April 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved with RM team in gathering user requirements, followed by analysis and design of business requirements(BR'S). Evaluated various technologies for the Client.  • Heavily used OOP's concepts like Interfaces, Collections, and Exception Handling through the development process.  • Used Multi-threading to overcome the errors in the process of transactions, to handle all the threads by the main thread process.  • Involved in designing and developing dynamic web pages using HTML and JSP with Struts tag libraries.  • Used JDBC for database connectivity and manipulation.  • Involved in development of JavaScript code for Client-Side Validations.  • Developed a Responsive design using bootstrap (CSS Framework).  • Implemented Struts framework based on the Model View Controller design paradigm.  • Designed the application by implementing Struts based on MVC Architecture, simple Java Beans as a Model, JSP UI Components as View and Action Servlet as a Controller.  • Develop user-defined tags using XML.  • Used Struts Framework to implement J2EE design patterns (MVC).  • Identified and created Enterprise Java Beans (EJB).  • Developed, Tested and Debugged the Java, JSP and EJB components using Eclipse RCP.  • Developed Enterprise Java Beans like Entity Beans, Session Beans.  • Developed JSP as the view, Servlets as Controller and EJB as model in the Struts Framework.  • Worked on WebLogic and WebSphere application servers to deploy JSP and EJB applications.  • Worked with Oracle9i. Wrote many SQL queries to perform CRUD operations.  • Performed unit testing for each module in the application.    Environment: Core Java, J2EE, Swing, EJB 2.1, JSP 2.0, Servlets 2.4, Struts, HTML, XML, XSL, XSLT, CSS, JavaScript, Eclipse RCP, Oracle9i, PL/SQL, Weblogic8.1, WebSphere6.0. Java Developer Star Touch India Pvt. Ltd - Bengaluru, Karnataka June 2011 to December 2012 Responsibilities:    • Implemented Struts Framework in the presentation tier for all the essential control flow, business level validations and for communicating with the business layer.  • Developed Struts Framework Action Servlets classes for Controller and developed Form Beans for transferring data between Action class and the View Layer.  • Used JDBC to do CRUD operations. Wrote SQL queries, stored procedures, Triggers.  • Extensively used JDBC to access the database objects.  • Prepared UNIT test cases, taken care of JUnit Testing.  • Developed the front-end UI using JSP, HTML, JavaScript, and CSS.  • Implemented Struts Validators framework to validate the data.  • Developed Ant(build.xml) targets for build and deployments on WebSphere Application Server 5.0.  • Developed Stored Procedures in the Oracle 9i database.  • Responsible for design and implementation of various modules of the application using Struts-Spring-Hibernate architecture.  • Developed software applications using C++ and other object-oriented languages.  • Involved in writing unit test plans and developing test cases using JUnit.    Environment:Java6/7,J2EE,Eclipse,Windows,UNIX,JSP/Servlets, jQuery, Apache Tomcat,JDBC,XML,XSLT, CSS, Ajax, HTML, C++, Oracle, UNIX, Hibernate, Spring, Oracle. Education Bachelor's