Android Developer Android <span class="hl">Developer</span> Android Developer - Adient Houston, TX • Hands on experience in Android application development following Android's UI Guidelines, best practices and coding standards.    • In-depth understanding of Android SDK and experience in developing Android apps.    • Experience in developing consumer as well as enterprise level mobile apps using Android SDK (Kitkat, Lollipop and Marshmallow).    • Experience in Android UI toolkit (basic/picker/list views, adapters, dialogs, menus) and Layout Managers.    • Proficient in Android application framework: Activities, Intents, Services, Content Provider.    • Experienced with Android SDK tools: Debugger (DDMS), Device Manager (AVD).    • In-depth understanding of Android APIs and Frameworks such as Content Providers & Intents, Broadcast Receivers, Media Player, Camera, Sensors and Location based features.    • Good Knowledge in Activities, SQLite and Google Maps integration.    • Experience in developing, publishing and consuming Web Services APIs such as SOAP, REST, JSON and XML.  • Experienced in developing applications with sophisticated User Interfaces using XML Layouts, Animation, Notifications and User Interaction.    • Experience in developing UI using Material design.    • Experience in developing app widgets for better user experience.    • Experienced with Agile software development processes with focus on Design and Development methodologies.  • Experience as an Analyst interacting with the clients and application users for the Requirements, Specifications and enhancements of applications.    • Strong communication and organizational skills.    Willing to relocate: Anywhere    Authorized to work in the US for any employer Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Android Developer Adient - Holland, MI December 2016 to Present Holland, MI - December 2016 to Present    Responsibilities:  • Involving in entire software development process for Android applications development.  • Gathering client requirements and involved in design and developing application UI.    • Involved in requirement gathering, UI design and development.    • Written application logic using Android Studio.    • Handling JSON data using efficient parsing techniques such as GSON and Parcebale.    • Constructing http requests, fetching server response and parsing feeds wherever required.    • Involved in development and enhancements of features to restrict the usage based on Authorization and Authentication tokens.  • Used sliding side menu library for easy navigation through the app.    • Responsible for design of user interface using custom layouts and different form of widgets.    • Used web views, list views & populated lists to display the lists from database using simple adapters.    • Used services, Async tasks and Alert Notification API to implement parking status reminder into the mobile app.  • Used Android content providers for implementing features like sharing using Facebook, Email, Twitter, SMS, etc., from the app and designed suitable GUI for these applications.  • Worked extensively on local data storage using Shared Preferences, SQLite databases, and File system.    • Used Parceler for passing Parcelable objects between various components of the app.    • Embedded Google Maps API, GPS Location Data into app with zooming controls for finding out the store and navigation details to the store.  • Integrating RESTful API services with Basic Authentication process    • Involved in working with Location Manager and Restful Web service with JSON.    • Integrated Push Notifications (GCM) to notify user about new in-stock apparels.    • Used ProGuard for code shrinking, optimizing, and obfuscating the remaining classes, fields, and methods with short names. This helped in preventing the APK from reverse engineering.  • Worked on memory leaks using DDMS and Leak Canary.    • Used GIT for version control and followed Agile with JIRA for implementing this project    Environment: Android SDK, SQLite, Android studio IDE, Android API's, ADT plug-in, Location Manager, JDK 1.6, JNI, XML, JSON, REST services, GPS service, Log cat.    Android Developer Software Developer Dura Automotive - Auburn Hills, MI May 2014 to December 2016 Auburn Hills, MI - May 2014 to December 2016  Responsibilities:    • Involved in full life cycle of the application including design, development and testing.    • Designed and Developed App screens and its workflow using Activity and Fragments.    • Written application logic using Android SDK and Android Studio.    • Implemented Model-View-Presenter design pattern.    • Responsible for consuming the REST services, getting JSON response and parsing them to get the required information.  • Manage task with within Agile framework, and controlled JIRA workflows.    • Worked on Designing, Enhancements, Bug-fixing, KT Sessions, and Maintenance of the Application.    • Used ACRA-4.3.0 library to send crash reports to the developer.    • Performed on device debugging using ADB and tested application in device using Logcat, DDMS.    • Utilized Async Task, Thread, Handler, Services to provide smooth UI experience.    • Developed rich UI for the applications modules using ListView, Scroll View, View Pager & Navigation Drawer and developed Custom View.  • Customized different widgets that include Buttons, Toast's and Dialog's.    • Worked in Agile environment and handled daily standup meetings.    • Utilized GPS to get one-touch access and directions to ATM / location information.    Environment: Java, Android SDK 4.x, Android Studio, GIT, XML, JSON, RESTful Web Services, GPS, SQLite, Gradle, Maven.    Software Developer Java Developer Valsatech Corp - Ellicott City, MD August 2012 to June 2014 Ellicott City, MD- August 2012 to June 2014    Responsibilities:    • Designed the User Interface with navigation bar, view pager.    • Making the Restful Service Calls using Google's Volley Library at the various stages in the app development cycle and parsing the responses back from the web servers according to the application requirement.  • Integrated the QR Code scanning library in to the application for the scanning.    • Responsible for adding the Reader API, this allows reading the payment card data.    • Worked with Google Maps AndroidAPI V2 to display the AIL locations with markers using Geocoder.    • Responsible for analyzing the requirements of application, testing, stage, deployment, production maintenance.    • Responsible for storing the Payment code within the app using the Shared Preferences in SQLite database.    • Registered the Broadcast Receivers for the android system announcements.    • Designed the Custom Action bar, Custom Progress bar while making service calls.    • Implemented capturing the screenshot of the payment screen, Bitmap to pdf conversion features using Android NDK implementing C/C++ code.  • Implemented the mail feature of sending mail with billing information as an attachment.    • Worked with Application Activity Lifecycle callbacks for providing the security and showing the login screen when the app goes to background.  • Responsible for adding the update module for checking the latest version of app.    • Extensively worked on designing the layouts to be compatible with multiple screen sizes.    • Worked on testing the application using J-UNIT testing framework.    • Responsible for testing the application in stage, code review fixing the bugs and providing post-production support.  Environment: Kony Studio, Android Studio, windows 7, Google Maps API V2, Java, JDK, Google Volley, NDK, JUNIT, XML, JSON    Java Developer    IMS Health, PA - November 2010 to August 2011    Responsibilities:    • Involved in Development, Integration and Testing of application modules    • Developed presentation layer using JSP, HTML, Java Script, JQuery, CSS    • Have developed stateless session enterprise java beans.    • Implemented the project using IDE Eclipse.    • Used JSP, HTML, Java Script, Angular JS and CSS for content layout and presentation.    • Created data access layer using SQL and PL/SQL.    • Used JMS for Point-to-Point asynchronous messaging for high transactional Banking operation.    • Worked on JQuery, AJAX, JASON and JSF for designing highly user interactive web pages.    • Implemented AJAX for better user experience by dynamically providing Asynchronous request and response communication between the client and the server.  • Used Object/Relational mapping tool Hibernate to achieve object persistency.    • Implemented the integration with the back end system with web services using SOAP    • Involved in configuring hibernate to access database and retrieve data from the database.    • Implemented logger for debugging and testing purposes using Log4j.    • Developed JSF components, implemented event handling using Java, JSF and JavaScript for various modules.  • Developed stored procedures and triggers with PL/SQL.    • Involved in the bug tracking and Unit Testing using JUnit framework.    • Developed ANT Scripts to do compilation, packaging and deployment in an application server.    • Involved in peer to peer code reviews and cross checked whether coding standards are being followed.  Environment: Core java, Java 1.5, J2EE, JSP, JSF, Servlets, Angular JS, Hibernate, SQL, HTML, Springs, JQuery, JNDI, JMS, PL/SQL, JBOSS, ANT, XML, Java Script, CSS, Windows, Eclipse, Log4j Education Masters University at Buffalo, The State University of New York Skills ANDROID (5 years), JSON (5 years), PARSING (5 years), USER INTERFACE (5 years), XML (5 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Mobile Technologies/Tools: Android SDK, AVD, ADB/DDMS, Android Emulator, Draw 9-patch, Traceview, logcat, lint    Wireframe/UI Tools: Wireframe Sketcher, PhoneGap, Indigo Studio, Prototyper & FluidUI    Programming Languages: Java, python, swift, kotlin    Web/App Servers: Apache, Tomcat    IDE Tools: Source Control: Android Studio, Eclipse [ ] IntelliJ, XCode, Microsoft Visual Studio.    Databases: SQLite, Oracle 8i/9i/10G, SQL Server, MS Access    Web Development: JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, HTML5, PHP    Parsing Techniques: JSON, XML    Operating Systems: Android, Linux, Windows, IOS    Version Control Systems: Git, GitHub, Perforce, Bitbucket