Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - FreddieMac Pittsburgh, PA • Around 6 years of experience including master's degree (Computer Science) in software development, maintenance and support of various applications using JAVA/J2EE technologies across various verticals.  • Experienced in all phases of Project and Product Development Life Cycle that includes System Study, Analysis, Design, Development, Integration, Testing, Deployment, Maintenance, Re-Engineering and Documentation.  • Expertise on various J2EE technologies including Swings, Applets, JFC, EJB 3.0, JSPs, Servlets, JNDI, JMS, JSTL, JDBC/ODBC, Hibernate, RMI, Struts and Spring Framework.  • Expertise in OOAD, Modeling of Applications with UML.  • Implemented J2EE modules based on Design Patterns like Business Delegate, Service Locator, Session Facade, Factory, Decorator, MVC and Singleton.  • Experience in using IDE's like Eclipse and Net Beans.  • Good Knowledge in implementing client-server business applications using MVC architecture inculcating different J2EE frameworks, Design Patterns.  • Experience in working in different development methodologies such as Waterfall and Agile.  • Developed the code for front end using jQuery, JavaScript, HTML, CSS and JSON.  • Hands on experience in developing applications using Struts 2, Spring and JSF frameworks on windows platform.  • Worked with ORM frameworks like Hibernate and IBatis.  • Experience in Web Services using XML related technologies - XSD, DTD, XSLT, XPath, DOM, JSON and XML Beans.  • Experienced in developing and deploying J2EE applications on IBM WebSphere and Apache Tomcat.  • Experienced in writing SQL, PL/SQL queries, stored procedures for Oracle, MySQL databases and MS Access.  • Worked on relational Databases like Oracle, DB2, MONGO DB, and HSQL DB.  • Good knowledge of testing concepts and working knowledge of Junit using Mockito and Easy Mock.  • Tested the application using Selenium and QTP test automation tools.  • Working on TDD and BDD methodology.  • Worked on Shell Script on Linux and UNIX environment.  • Experience version control systems like GIT, BitBucket, and Sub Version/SVN.  • Worked on JDK 1.5, JDK 1.6, JDK 1.7 and JDK 1.8.  • Good knowledge of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • In-depth and hands-on experience in Object-Oriented Programming (OOP) and Analyses.  • Used ANT and Maven for building and deploying application source code on application server.  • Excellent troubleshooting skills and proactive problem-solving approach with excellent leadership, interpersonal and time management skills.  • Strong team player and effective individual with an ability to adapt to new technologies quickly.  • Strong work ethic with desire to succeed and make significant contributions to the organization.  • Proven capacity to meet deadlines. Good communication and presentation skills. Ability as a good developer and effective interaction with end users. Work Experience Java Developer FreddieMac - McLean, VA June 2017 to Present Description: Borrower Capacity Verification Services  • BCVS is the system used by the loan Borrowers as it helps in the Mortgage of loans from different vendors and the borrower.  Responsibilities  • Co-ordinating with business team in gathering requirements and assessing impacted applications.  • Co-ordinate with architecture / technology service teams in designing and assessing the operation readiness to satisfy new functional requirements.  • Translate business requirements into functional specs. Developed different user stories using Java, Hibernate and Webservices. Followed TDD approach of development.  • Experience in writing Junit Test cases using Mockito framework.  • Hands on experience in deploying the code to SIT and UAT servers using Jenkins.  • Good knowledge on HP-ALM tool.  • Played a major role in development team by deploying the user stories in Agile environment.  • Using docker platform build, test, and deployed applications rapidly using containers.  • Support and troubleshoot production implementations.  Technologies:  Java8, SpringBoot, Hibernate, Microservices, DB2, Jenkins, Docker, AWS, OpenShift, Unix Parking System Android August 2016 to April 2017 • Developed an Android based application that aids university students and visitors to track available parking slots within the campus which certainly helps UPD in reducing the number of tickets.  • Applied google map API and built the interactive custom user interface. Parking System Android August 2016 to December 2016 • Developed an iOS-based application which is used to give detail information about the events conducted by ISA for the University students and faculty members.  • Architected the MVC in SWIFT 2.0 to meet the real-time performance. Parking System Android August 2016 to December 2016 • Implemented online bus reservation website that allows users to search for buses based on date and location user wants to travel.  • Java and JavaScript technologies were used to build the project successfully.  • Built front end GUI for searching and booking of the buses and online payments using jQuery framework. Software Engineer British Telecom - Ipswich, MA October 2014 to December 2015 Description: Switch Manager  • SM is the system used by British Telecom Wholesale's Voice Management Team.  • A telecommunication project that helps BT customers to create their landline accounts.  Responsibilities  • Analyzing Business Requirements and understand the requirements of the users and implement the same as per specifications.  • Developed Business components using JavaBeans and database connections using JDBC  • Involved in Designing and creating database tables.  • Wrote various queries using SQL and used SQL server as the database.  • Devised logging mechanism using Log4J  • Developed web pages mostly using HTML, CSS3, JavaScript.  • Involved in testing of the project using QTP automation tool.    Technologies:  Spring MVC, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSP, REST API, Hibernate, Web Sphere 8.5 British Telecom - Ipswich, MA June 2013 to September 2014 Ipswich, UK Jun 2013 - Sep 2014  Description: Configuration System Activation Manager - Network  • Web based application used by national/international management team for managing traffic along the network.  Responsibilities:  • Worked on Java and J2EE based applications, responsible for writing business logic using core Java.  • Involved in the development of presentation layer and GUI framework in JSP, HTML.  • Worked on complete project life cycle (SDLC): analysis, design, development, implementation and maintenance.  • Used Web Sphere as the application server for deployment.  • Involved in writing stored procedures, complex queries using SQL to process the data on MYSQL DB.  • Performed unit testing on various project modules using JUnit framework.  • Worked on JUnit and Automation unit testing using Selenium automation tool.    Technologies: JFC, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, HTML, JavaScript, Apache Tomcat, MYSQL Skills ECLIPSE, J2EE, J2SE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, JMS, STRUTS, ANDROID STUDIO, Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, JSON, SCRIPTING, SVN, SWIFT, VISIO, ANDROID, MVC, DB2