Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Full Stack Developer - Marsh & McLennan New Jersey Princeton, NJ * Over 8+ years of extensive IT experience in developing, design, analysis, testing of various web-based, SOA based and client/server applications in multi-platform environments with JAVA/J2EE technologies.  * Experience in various Agile Methodologies like Test Driven Development (TDD), SOA, SCRUM, and Waterfall.  * Proficient in OOAD Technologies developing use cases, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Class Diagrams using case tools like Microsoft Visio and Rational Rose.  * Highly proficient in using OOPS for building n-tier architecture systems with hands-ondeveloping expertise in front-end UI layer, core business frameworks and Back-end database layer integration.  * Experience in Front-End UI development skills using scripting languages like HTML5, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, Angular JS, Node.js, Bootstrap, Tag Libraries, JSTL.  * Expert in Core Java with a strong understanding of Garbage Collector, SWING, Collections, Multithreading, Event handling, Exception handling and Generics.  * Expertise in implementation of J2EE Technologies: JSP, JTS, Servlets, JSF, JSTL, EJB transaction implementation, JMS, Struts, Swing, Hibernate, Java Beans, JDBC, XML, Web Services, JNDI, Swing, Serialization, and Externalization.  * Good knowledge in developing single page applications (SPA s) using the JavaScript libraries like Angular JS and Meteor JS.  * Good understanding of using Aurelia, the next generation JavaScript MVC framework and writing ECMAScript 6 and ECMAScript 7  * Experience in developing web applications on MVC based frameworks like spring, Spring IOC, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, and Spring MVC.  * Experience in integrating the internal security model into new projects with Spring Batch, Spring Micro Services and Spring Boot, Pivotal Cloud Foundry and Netflix Eureka.  * Experience in development of REST and SOAP based web services using AXIS, WSDL, UDDI, XML, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, JAXB, JAX-RPC, AJAX technologies and Jersey frameworks.  * Experience using J2EE design patterns like Singleton, Prototype, Business Delegate, Session Façade Pattern, DAO, MVC, Abstract Factory and Factory Pattern.  * Expertise in XML technologies such as DTD, XSL, XSLT, XML schemas, XPath, XSL-FO and parsers like SAX, DOM.  * Expertise in Back-end/server-side java technologies such as: Web services, Java persistence API (JPA), Java. Messaging Service (JMS), Rabbit MQ, Java Database Connectivity (JDBC), Java Naming and Directory Interface (JND).  * Strong knowledge of Hibernate and in using Hibernate Connection Pooling, HQL, Collections, Hibernate Caching, Hibernate Transactions, Optimistic Locking.  * Implemented security and authentication concepts such as OAuth 2.0, and Cryptographic algorithms.  * Expertise in open source framework Object Relational Mapping (ORM) tools like Hibernate and used Hibernate Annotations to reduce time at the configuration level.  * Expertise in databases such as Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server, NoSql, Mongo DB, Cassandra and IBM DB2 databases to manage tables, views, indexes, sequences, stored procedures, functions, triggers, and packages.  * Strong experience in different IDEs like RAD, Eclipse, Spring Tool Suite and IntelliJ IDEA and worked on various application and web servers like JBoss, BES Web Logic, IBM Web Sphere, Glassfish, Camel and Apache Tomcat.  * Having experience with Cloud Computing environment like Amazon Web Services (AWS).  * Experience in AWS Solutions using EC2, S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Dynamo DB and Auto Scaling Groups.  * Experience with JUnit, Mockito, Log4j, and SLF4J in developing test cases and determining application functionality.  * Experience in development, deployment, and troubleshooting Web-based and enterprise-based applications on Windows, UNIX, and Linux platforms.  * Experience in building applications using ANT, Maven, and Gradle.  * Knowledge of developing search components using Apache Solr, which includes custom search handlers and custom handlers.  * Experience in using code repository tools - Tortoise SVN, CVS, GitHub, and Visual Source Safe. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Marsh & McLennan New Jersey August 2018 to Present Description: Marsh is a Global Leader in Insurance Broking and Risk Management. We help clients better quantify and manage risk to survive and thrive. Marsh & McLennan is the world's leading professional services firm in the areas of risk, strategy and people.    Responsibilities:  * Followed agile methodology and involved in daily SCRUM meetings, sprint planning, showcases, and retrospective and used JIRA as a tracking tool for the sprints.  * Designed the front-end screens using Angular JS, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap and Spring Boot.  * Developed Grid's used in the system using Slick Grid and created custom grid directive to make the component reusable.  * Used various Angular UI Bootstrap components such as calendars, masks, uploaders, sliders, alerts, modal dialogs etc. For developing the UI.  * Took part in setting up the routing configuration using Angular UI router for various views and subviews.  * Configured Gulp to perform various UI build and test related tasks and used Node JS NPM and Bower JS to manage the dependencies.  * Developed Angular services making use of resource service to perform REST API calls to the backend.  * Developed unit test cases using Jasmine and Karma and performed end to end testing using Protractor and Selenium  * Developed REST controllers using Spring Data REST to serve the UI with required JSON data.  * Developed REST exception handling controller advice to respond to bad requests and server-side exceptions.  * Used complete annotation-driven approach to developing the application using Spring Boot and was also involved in setting up the spring bean profiling.  * Consumed SOAP/ JAX-WS based web services using spring framework and used SOAP UI for testing these services.  * Used REST Client and POSTMAN to test the rest-based services and used JUnit and Mockito to test the middleware services.  * Worked with Middleware using Message-driven by POJO (MDP) after creating QCF, Queue on Web Sphere server, and using JMS template for asynchronous functionality for multiple users.  * Used Hibernate in the persistence layer and implemented DAO's to access data from the database.  * Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into the database and used Test driven approach.  * Wrote Python Scripts to generate dummy data and requests.  * Worked on their test automation framework written in Python and Selenium.  * Used Node.js to run Grunt tasks and build properly the project (compile, minify, concat etc.) and Implement modules into Node JS to integrate with designs and requirements. Used Grunt JS, Bower JS, Express with Node JS.  * Involved with Applications & middleware teams in writing the Program Scripting for automating the data transfer and file transfer tasks using JAVA and Python.  * Installation and configuration of AIX v5.3/6.1 on IBM pSeries Hardware.  * Perl Application and Perl Module Development in Object Oriented Perl on Solaris, RHEL Linux, Informix, Bash.  * Involved in enhancing existing MEAN (Mongo DB, Express, Angular, and Node) stack applications and provided the required support.  * Build REST web service by building Node.js Server in the back-end to handle requests sent from the front-end JQuery Ajax calls.  * Made the integration of data in several applications in favor JSON documents with dynamic schemas using Mongo DB (No SQL) database.  * Created various Mongo DB collections and wrote services to store and retrieve user data from for the application on devices and used Mongoose API to access the Mongo DB from Node JS.  * Used GIT as version control system, to keep track of all the work & all changes, allowing several developers to collaborate and using Maven as build and configuration tool and Jenkins for continuous integration tool.  * Involved in configuration and usage of Apache Log4J for logging and debugging purposes. Used RAD as IDE tool to develop the application.  * Prepared Documentation for Unit Test Plan and Unit Test Results for the QA purpose. Participated in the release night shakeouts/overnight deliveries and QA Support.  * Used Vera code for application security scanning and remediated the flaws that were identified in the code.  * Took part in setting up the application with Jenkins and AWS and is involved in builds and deployments to Tomcat server.    Environment: Java 7, STS, Tomcat 7, Gulp, Spring Tool Suite, Spring, Spring Boot, Hibernate, Mongo DB, Restful Web Service, Oracle, HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, Angular JS, Node JS, Express, JavaScript, GIT, JMS, Jenkins, Agile, JIRA tool, Selenium, Log4j, Maven, AWS. Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Retail Me Not - Austin, TX May 2017 to July 2018 Description: Retail Me Not, Inc. is an American multinational company headquartered in Austin, that maintains a collection of coupon web sites. The company was founded by Cotter Cunningham. The company owns RetailMeNot.com and VoucherCodes.co.uk and acquires coupon sites and third-party software.    Responsibilities:  * Involved in Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development, and Testing of the application using AGILE methodology (SCRUM).  * Developed the web interface using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, and Bootstrap.  * Designed Java Components and integrated using spring framework with Hibernate Object/Relational persistence mechanism.  * Used Structs Framework in the application, which is based on MVC design pattern  * Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML, a file that contains declarations and business classes are wired-up to the frontend managed beans using Spring IOC pattern.  * Implemented the application using Spring IOC, Spring MVC Framework, and Spring Batch and handled the security using Spring Security.  * Worked on developing web service calls using SOAP and WSDL.  * Having good experience in implementing the Node.js server-side code to interact with Mongo DB to store and retrieve data by using the Mongoose drivers.  * Involved in installing, upgrading, configuring and Troubleshooting IBM Web Sphere Application Server and IBM MQ on AIX and Linux  * Used Web Services for transmission of large blocks of XML data using SOAP.  * Tested the application functionality with JUnit Structs Test Cases.  * Worked with NPM commands and using package. JSON for managing dependencies and dev-dependencies of Node.js applications.  * Validated Customer, Account, Address and Order entities with Drools rules engine.  * Used Node.js for server-side code and Express.js as the framework. Written callback functions for the Restful API.  * Identified and fixed various production issues related to IBM MQ server on Linux, UNIX, and Windows system.  * Used Structs Model-View-Controller approach to help design new features and fix Jira bugs and request.  * Developed Rest Web services for IOS and Android mobile websites and apps.  * Involved in integrating JAX-RS into Spring Boot application.  * Implemented Micro Services using Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, and Spring Micro Services and enabled discovery using Netflix Eureka Server.  * Added the required jars to the drools files, build the package and deployed it on the JBoss server.  * User level support for multiple applications including web-based, IOS and Android mobile apps.  * Worked throughout the full stack (Node.js, Angular.js) to see software extensions through to completion.  * Implemented Restful Web Services to retrieve data from client side using Micro Services architecture.  * Created web services using spring @Rest Controller to return JSON to the frontend.  * Hands-on Experience with Drools, Apache Camel, Active MQ, Rabbit MQ, IBMMQ  * Sending requests and responses toMicroservices through REST/HTTP.  * Involved in working with Structs Tiles2.0 for the look and feel for a web application.  * Fundamental mastery of AWS clouds computing platform and its dimensions of scalability.  * Used AWS deployment services to quickly set up a dynamic website and configured virtual servers.  * Responsible for maintaining and expanding our AWS infrastructure using AWS EC2, manage documents in S3, providing IAM access to S3 buckets.  * Designed and developed DAO layer with Hibernate standards, to access data from SQL Server.  * Created SQL Server logins and assigning roles and Authentication models as a part of Security.  * Used multithreading in programming to improve overall performance using Singleton design pattern in Hibernate Utility class.  * Backup, recovery, and troubleshooting for IBM MQ.  * UI design using iOS latest feature Adaptive Layout.  * Developed the persistence layer using Hibernate Framework, created the POJO objects and mapped using Hibernate annotations and Transaction Management.  * Implemented service methods and SQL queries, PL/SQL to interact with the forms.  * Performed deployment of applications on IBM Web Sphere Application Server.  * Involved in creating Mongo DB, collections and documents and developed Mongoose Schema object to perform CRUD operations.  * Responsible for Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) process implementation using Jenkins along with LINUX Shell scripts to automate routine jobs.  * Development carried out under STS Integrated Development Environment (IDE).  * Used MAVEN to define the dependencies and build the application and used JUnit for suite execution and Assertions.  * Used JIRA for bug tracking, issue tracking, and project management.  * Used GIT as source control management giving a huge speed advantage on centralized systems that must communicate with a server.    Environment: Java, Agile Methodology, Structs, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Drools, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Spring Batch, Spring Security, HTML5, IBM MQ 7.0, 7.1 and 7.5, MB 6.1, 7.0, and 8.0, CSS3, Node.js, Bootstrap, Angular JS, JSTL, JQuery, AJAX, AWS EC2, S3, Micro Services, Hibernate, Restful API, SOA, JAX-RS, JSON, SQL, Oracle, CRUD, CI, CD, Jenkins, JIRA, Rabbit MQ, MAVEN, JUnit, UNIX, STS, IBM Web Sphere, Log4J, GIT. Sr. Java Developer AFG (American Financial Group) - Cincinnati, OH January 2016 to April 2017 Description: American Financial Group Incorporated is an American financial service holding company based in Cincinnati, Ohio. Its primary businesses are insurance and investments.    Responsibilities:  * Develop java based monitoring tool using open source tool Jam on, to monitor the performance statistics of each web application deployed in application servers located in different branches.  * Experience in programming with JDK tools, Applets, Swing and AWT packages of Java.  * Worked on variety of Frontend JavaScript frameworks like Angular JS, Backbone.JS, React.JS, JQuery, JQuery UI and good knowledge in Ember.JS.  * Implemented Java based POJO access to the application's Oracle 11g database using myBatis (formerly iBatis) mappers and typical data access and transfer design patterns.  * Built a RESTful API to save and retrieve agent information in Java using Struts MVC, Apache CXF and JAXRS.  * Developed Web Applications using Java/J2EE, JSF, and JDK on JVM.  * Developed dynamic web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, d3.js, Angular JS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, S3, RDS and Eclipse as Text Editor.  * Coded the user interfaces of backstage management system of Data Management Platform product with HTML/CSS.  * Responsibilities included DB2 performance tuning for a zOSsysplex in a Data Sharing environment, disaster recovery planning and implementation.  * Completed data extracts for Coast Guard users using TOAD, PL/SQL and MS SQL Server.  * In depth exposure to creating API for internal and external application using REST and SOAP based design. Open source framework like Jersey used for create REST API  * Implemented various XML technologies like DTD schemas, DOM & SAX parsers, XSLT.  * Used JIRA for tracking and Updating Project issue.  * Web sphere Process Server, IlogJRules Engine and Message broker) using EJB.  * Implemented JAVA Web Services based on SOA architecture with SOAP and WSDL.  * Moving of content from Interwoven Team Site version and from windows to Linux.  * Involved in writing Unix Shell Script for performing automated tasks.  * Worked on Cocoa development for Mac OS using the Foundation, the Application Kit and the core data frameworks.  * Worked on JDBC to select and update the data from the MySQL database  * Used TOAD for database query testing, in the process of optimizing the queries  * Developed Web Services to communicate to other modules using XML based SOAP and WSDL protocols.  * Used Soap UI and Postman to test web service response and also created mockup service.  * Used Agile principles such as Scrum, Continuous Integration, Pair Programming and Test-Driven Development (TDD) as development methodology.  * Expertised in using AWS and Open stack as cloud services.  * Developed front end view using HTML, JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS3, LESS.  * Developed Servlets and JSP based on MVC pattern using Struts framework and Spring Framework  * Used Maven to build and generate code analysis reports.  * Created XSL style sheets to generate complicated output reports based on user requirements from XML data.  * Used JIRA for tracking and Updating Project issue.  * Web sphere Process Server, IlogJRules Engine and Message broker) using EJB.  * Implemented JAVA Web Services based on SOA architecture with SOAP and WSDL.  * Moving of content from Interwoven Team Site version and from windows to Linux.  * Involved in writing Unix Shell Script for performing automated tasks.    Environment: Java, Spring, MyBatis, Struts, JSF, JavaScript, HTML/CSS,Db2,, MS SQL, Rest, XML, Apache CXF, Eclipse, web logic, SVN, JUnit, JMeter, Postman, Agile, AWS, EC2, S3, RDS, JSP, Servlets, Maven, ANT, JSON, XML, JIRA, JRules, SOA, Tomcat, Linux, Unix Sr. Java Developer Sabre Corporation - Southlake, TX March 2014 to December 2015 Description: Sabre technology is as essential to travel as air and water are essential to life. We are one of the world's largest software companies. We were Big Data long before that was a buzzword. We created the world's largest electronic marketplace when Amazon was just a river in Brazil.    Responsibilities:  * Using Java script prototyping and it will hold the data in java script objects so that this data will be used by both ExtJS and HTML components.  * Wrote Java programs, performed builds, monitored DB2 data and ran SQL.  * Design and developed large web 2.0 based enterprise solutions with emphasis on use of JavaScript framework.  * Used web applications development using DJango/Python, Flask/Python, and, JQuery, Ajax while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered application.  * Designed and Implement Data Model for UDW Transition from Oracle & SQL Server to Google Cloud Big Query.  * Worked with in the Network interactions using JSON with REST API calls.  * Developed SOAP web services in integration with JBoss ESB services.  * Developed web UI using Spring, JSP, Java Scripts. Used MyBatis as persistence tier. Performed security remediation development to fix web UIXSS security findings.  * Developed Servlets and Worked extensively on Sql.  * Developed ant and Gradle build script, used Apache Ivy to handle dependencies  * Developed an API to write XML documents from a database. Utilized XML, XPATH, DTD and XSL  * Developed Java Script and Action Script, VB Script macros for Client Side validations.  * Expertise in MVC Architecture using JSF and Struts framework and implementing custom tag libraries.  * Experienced with various frameworks like Struts, Spring, Hibernate  * Used JDBC to retrieve data from an MSSQL database to support a Swing gui.  * Expertise in MVC Architecture using JSF and Struts framework and implementing custom tag libraries.  * Designed and developed pricing region services using Oracle ADF, JSF and Oracle Spatial.  * Developed the input/output data formats in XSD for the WSDL files and accordingly implementing services using Apache AXIS2  * Java backend was created using Net Beans and the frontend was built using Adobe Flex.  * Configured EJB and Hibernate on Web sphere Server.  * Used CVS tool as version control system to check in and checkout the data.  * Developed JUnit test cases for all the developed modules.  * Responsible for testing, debugging, bug fixing and documentation of the system. Use Git for version control and Waterfall methodology was used.  * Worked on AWS tools EC2 instances, Elastic Load Balancer, Cloud Watch, AWS, EC2, S3, RDS and other tools deployed and maintained the applications in it.  * Developed static and dynamic web services using Web logic web service API, WSDL, SOAP, HTTP.  * JIRA (Agile) was used to build an environment for development.  * Writing web applications for eCommerce start-up using Apache Wicket, Jersey, Postgre SQL, Tomcat and Spring(DI/IOC, AOP).  * Unit testing for Web application was tested by running on tomcat and jre servers from unix box.  * Used Hibernate for mapping object oriented design model to relational database.    Environment: Java, Spring, Struts, JDBC, Struts, JSF, JavaScript,, HTML/CSS, Oracle, SOAP, Rest, Axis2, Net Beans, web sphere, CVS, JUnit, Waterfall, AWS, EC2, S3, RDS, JSP, Servlets, Ant, XML, WSDL, JIRA, Tomcat, Linux Java Developer Virtela - Mumbai, Maharashtra December 2012 to February 2014 Description: Virtela, an NTT Communications Company, is the smart alternative for enterprise networking and virtualized IT services.    Responsibilities:  * Developed an API to write XML documents from a database. Utilized XML and XSL Transformation for dynamic web-content and database connectivity.  * Involved in writing the presentation layer in Java Server Page(JSP). Strong Understanding of the software development cycle, especially Agile/Scrum.  * Involved in the development of presentation layer and GUI framework in JSP. Client-Side validations were done using JavaScript.  * Handled Java multi-threading part in back-end component, one thread will be running for each user, which serves that user.  * Implemented complex back-end component to get the count in no time against large size database using Java multi-threading.  * Participated in weekly design reviews and walkthroughs with project manager and development teams.  * Provided technical guidance to business analysts, gather the requirements and convert them into technical specifications/artifacts for developers to start.  * Developed Schema & Catalog loading solutions for Advantage Using Hibernate OR Mapping.  * Designed & Developed intranet applications for catalog maintenance using EJB3, JPA, Servlets, AJAX, JSF, Prime Faces 3.x technologies hosted on JBoss Application server.  * Develop aspect to modularize crosscutting concerns like caching, logging and performance monitoring.  * Developed Order Processing using XML and OASIS UBL.  * Generate Excel Reports in Java using Open Source solutions like JXLS and Excel and docx4j API.  * The developed asynchronous solution for Profile updates on the website using JMS technologies.  * Communicate effectively with executive stakeholders in gathering requirements and ensuring project success.  * Participate in Requirement, Design, Development and Deployment sessions.    Environment: Java, J2EE, XML, XSLT, JavaScript, AJAX, iText Web Services, Prime Faces 3.x WSDL, SOAP, AXIS, SOAP UI, Spring-IOC, AOP, JDBC Template, MVC, AJAX, Oracle 10g, IBM Web Sphere, IBM MQ Series, Eclipse, Quality Center, JSF 2.x. Java/J2EE Developer Larsen & Toubro InfoTech Limited - Mumbai, Maharashtra January 2011 to November 2012 Description: Aspect Software, Inc. is an American multinational call center technology and customer experience company headquartered in Phoenix, Arizona.    Responsibilities:  * Gathered the requirements and converted them into functional design documents and technical design documents.  * Adopted J2EE best Practices, using Core J2EE patterns.  * Developed in Eclipse environment using Struts based MVC framework.  * Designed and developed presentation layer using JSP, HTML, andJavaScript.  * Created JSPs using JSTL and Struts tag libraries.  * Developed Struts Action and Action Form classes.  * User Input Validation is done using the JavaScript and Action Form.  * Expertise in XML technologies like XSD, DTD, XSL, XPATH, XSLT, XQuery and parsers like SAX and DOM.  * Have extensive experience in creating cartridges for Oracle Communication Applications OSM 7.0.3 for both COM and SOM  * Performed Integration and deployment of applications using ANT and Maven.  * Performed SQL operations using Oracle Database 10G.  * Used Session Beans for business logic and Entity Beans for database persistence.  * Deployed J2EE components (EJB, Servlets) in Web Logic Application server.  * Implemented SOA architectures with web services using WSDL and SOAP.  * Performed unit testing using JUnit framework.  * Developed standalone custom Java applications to simulate various systems for testing.  * Designed and developed over 100 change requests which involved the creation of new end-to-end workflows and modification of existing workflows in Oracle OSM.  * Customized the (modules) by creating a "Point of No Return" system to handle errors in the downstream system and propagate notifications to the other systems in the stack.  * Implemented an automated error handling tool and notification mechanism used for propagating notifications to different upstream systems.  * Participated in Functional Design Document and Technical Design Document reviews.  * Actively participated and contributed to establishing Standards and Guidelines.  * Prepared Unit test cases for existing functionality as per the requirement and execute the same.  * Involved in the Integration testing support and involved in bug fixing.    Environment: J2EE, Java, UML, HTML, JUnit, Log4j, JavaScript, J2EE Patterns, Web Logic Server, Struts 1.x, JSTL, CSS, DB2, JSP, JDBC, Tag-libs, EJB, RAD, MVC, SQL, Oracle Communication Applications OSM 7.0.3, Oracle Database 10G, CVS. Education Bachelor's IIT Guwahati Skills ECLIPSE, EJB, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/rahul-t-347b94186 http://@Rest