Sr. Full Stack Java Developer Sr. Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Full Stack Java Developer - DXC Technology Dallas, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Full Stack Java Developer DXC Technology - Dallas, TX April 2017 to Present Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Developed the Micro Services using Spring Boot that create, update, delete and get the assignment information from backend.  ? Used Spring Boot for the application development. Designed the system based on Spring MVC architecture. Developed a business logic layer using Spring Framework.  ? Wrote services to store and retrieve user data from the Mongo DB for the application on devices.  ? Implemented Micro-services using Pivotal Cloud Foundry platform build upon Spring Boot Services.  ? Worked on user interface design and development using Angular.js, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, Bootstrap, DOM, HTML and CSS.  ? Developed Data Access Object (DAO) for interacting with database using Hibernate.  ? Developed and consumed JSON based RESTful services using Spring MVC and Spring Boot.  ? Extensively worked on Spring Framework such as Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring Resources and Spring JDBC.  ? Implemented Microservices using Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Spring Microservices, and enabled discovery using Netflix Eureka server.  ? Configured and verified AWS workstations as per application requirement.  ? Worked on Relational Database (RDBMS) concepts, database designing, Normalization, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, Triggers and extensively worked with SQL Server, Oracle and MySQL.  ? Used JMS API for communication between the components.  ? Wrote complex PL/SQL queries using joins, Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, cursors, and indexes in Data Access Layer.  ? Implemented Spring Data Elastic Search using Spring Boot Repository/DAO.  ? Collaborated with testers and developers and prepared test plans for producing high quality software applications.  ? Used JUnit and build tools such as MAVEN.  ? Worked on Log4j for logging errors, messages and performance logs and SVN for version control.  ? Worked on Eclipse toolbar, open the drop-down Amazon Web Services menu (identified by the AWS icon) and select AWS Lambda Java project.  ? Used Jenkins with Maven to Compile & Build Microservices java code and configure Build Triggers.  ? Created an AWS RDS Aurora DB cluster and connected to the database through an Amazon RDS Aurora DB Instance using the Amazon RDS Console.  ? Wrote Producer APIs to read the Feed files (JSON) and publish Assortments, Products to Apache Kafka Topic by using custom Serializers.  ? Developed POJO classes, and configuration files and Involved in writing some Junit Test cases.  ? Responsible for setting up the Splunk forwarder. Splunk has been used as an effective search tool in our project to reduce errors and production ticket.  ? Worked on AWS, High Availability Practices and deploying backup/restore infrastructure.  ? Implemented Business logic in the middle-tier using Java classes, Java beans and Multi-Threading and Caching were used to improve user experience.    Environment: Java 8, Spring 5.0, Spring boot, Hibernate 3, Apache Kafka, GIT, SVN,1 Webservices (Rest, SOAP), MongoDB, LDAP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JSON, Splunk, jQuery, Angular 2, Angular- JS, Xml, Stored Procedures, JUnit, Ant, Windows, Agile/Scrum Sr. Full Stack Java Developer BCBS - Raleigh, NC November 2015 to April 2017 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Interacted with team members and involved in analysis, design and implementation phases of the software development lifecycle (SDLC) for the various software modules of the Mobile Wallet application.  ? Deployed application using Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF) CLI and with Pivotal Cloud Foundry the connection/service binding details are injected from the deployed cloud platform itself.  ? Developed Sales and Margin module using Spring Boot, Microservices.  ? Extensively involved in developing robust and highly scalable applications based on Microservices architecture.  ? Used Eclipse IDE as the development environment to design and develop the code.  ? Designed and developed various modules of the application with J2EE design architecture, using Spring MVC frame work, and deployed the spring components on WebLogic.  ? Worked on ISO parser tool with Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF) and trained on Technical Essentials and Architecture with Amazon Web Services (AWS).  ? Worked on Cloud Foundry, User Account and Authentication (UAA), OAuth2Authorization, and Spring.  ? Involved in the integration of Spring components for implementing Inversion of Control (IOC) using Dependency Injection and integration of other spring components like Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers, Model and View Objects.  ? Created and updated database objects in Concept Wave frameworks.  ? Working in an intense iteration based lean agile system and Integrated Junit 4 test cases into the application and promoted test-driven development within the team.  ? Under the Spring framework used JAXB to map Java classes to Xml schemas and used XSLT to transform the XML files, XSD was used to describe the structure of Xml.  ? Used AJAX and JavaScript for Server side/client-side validation.  ? Worked on AWS Lambda, AWS code deploys, AWS CloudFormation and cloud foundry.  ? Used MS Visio, Dreamweaver and Photoshop tools for web application development.  ? Used Struts 2 framework along with Spring and to model the application in MVC architecture.  ? Incorporated multithreaded techniques for creating high performance applications. Multithreading was used to process data in chunks to improve performance.  ? Used new Java 8 features - Streams, Collectors, Lambda, new Executor service.  ? Developed application using Groovy, Grails, GSP, GORM and Grails Plugins and Grails Rest Services.  ? Implemented stored procedures using the Hibernate framework.  ? For the front end, interactive and dynamic webpages were created using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSP, JSTL tags and AngularJS, Node.js, ExtJS, Redux, as the web-framework.  ? Used Node.js, ExtJS for asynchronous data communication between server and client.  ? Extensively used Core Java such as Exceptions, and Collections. Implemented Multithreading, Synchronization using Thread pools, executive service and lock interfaces.  ? Developed helper utility for MongoDB interaction.  ? Worked on Amazon Web Services (AWS) for a multitude of applications utilizing the AWS stack such as EC2, VPC, Glacier, Route53, S3, RDS, Cloud Watch, Cloud Trial, WAF, SNS and IAM, focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, Load balancing and auto-scaling in designing, Deploying and configuring.  ? Implemented Spring Boot Micro services to divide the application into various sub modules.  ? Involved in designing application system requirements and coded back-end and front-end in Python.  ? Used SOAP and WSDL Web Services to exchange information over Http.  ? Used Splunk and Log4j as the Logging Framework.  ? Implemented a Distributed task execution framework on AWS Amazon EC2 using Amazon's SQS and DynamoDB and evaluated the performance  ? Building UNIX shell scripts for data migration & batch processing. Built and deployed scripts using Apache Ant.  ? Designed a data model in Cassandra (POC) for storing server performance data,  ? Ingested data from Hive into Cassandra.  ? Implemented a Data service as a rest API project to retrieve server utilization data from this Cassandra Table.    Environment: Java 8, Spring 3.0, Struts 2, Redux, Splunk, Pivotal Cloud Foundry, Linux Shell Scripting, spring boot, AWS, Hibernate 3.0, MongoDB, Python, Spring Batch, Concept Wave, Test Driven Development (TDD), Multithreading, Cassandra, Web Services(Rest, Apache CXF), WebSphere, Spring, HTML, JSP, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery, Angular.JS, Node.js, ExtJS, Grails, XML, XSL, Microservices, XSLT, XSD, JAXB, Tomcat, SQL Server, Mockito, JUnit, Ant, Log4j, Windows, Lean, Agile/Scrum Java/ J2EE Developer Farm and Local - Bedford, NH August 2014 to November 2015 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Extensively involved in developing Web interface using JSP, JSP Standard Tag Libraries (JSTL) using Struts Framework.  ? Developed application using spring MVC, Spring Batch, JSP, JSTL and AJAX on the presentation layer, the business layer is built using spring.  ? Working on Angular, HTML5, CSS3 and Typescript. Worked on additional frameworks like Bootstrap for responsive design.  ? Designed the system based on spring MVC Model architecture.  ? Developed a business logic layer using spring Dependency Injection and client-side Java-beans for DAO Design Patterns.  ? Create internal dashboards, alerts, and scheduled reports to monitor overall Splunk performance.  ? On boarded new data into a multi-tiered Splunk environment.  ? Designed and developed components relating to Concept Wave projects.  ? Created and updated database objects in Concept Wave frameworks.  ? Created Stream Rest based Application interfaces on java 8 environment.  ? Implemented batch configuration in spring boot application.  ? Created the Maven project to integrate Spring boot, Restful API, Oracle & Microservices.  ? Worked on Java Multithreading, Collections & Coherence Framework.  ? Implemented Java Multithreading to refresh the cache at a given set of time interval.  ? Involved in process for builds and deployments with Maven, Bamboo and Jenkins for continuous integration.  ? Created WAR/EAR files using MAVEN build and deployed them on JBOSS server.  ? Created multi-module Maven project and used Maven to build applications and Jenkins for continuous integration continuous deployment.  ? Created User services in Cloud Foundry for connecting database with different life cycles using spring profile.  ? Used SOAP web service to get corporate card information and to make changes in the card database for businesses.  ? Worked with IBM SOA Suites like WebSphere MQ Programming.  ? Create API Jenkins job, set up GitHub repository for Mule project also created project POM.  ? Created SOAP web service in pushing data to downstream systems and Implemented request and response objects using SOAP web services.  ? Written SQL statements for retrieving data from DB2 using JDBC.  ? Used IBM Data Studio to view and update the DB2 Database and worked on MongoDB.  ? Developed and written Stored Procedures and views to extract the needed data from DB2 and reflect on the UI.  ? Created DB2 Server Stored Procedures for implementing business logic at the database level.    Environment: Struts 2, Spring Batch, Bamboo, Spring Boot, MongoDB, Microservices, Drupal, Hibernate 3.0, Angular 2, GitHub, Concept Wave, Multithreading, Web Services (Rest, SOAP), WebSphere, Spring, HTML, JSP, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery, Angular- JS, Xml, JBOSS 6.2, DB2, Stored Procedures (DB2), JUnit, Ant, Windows, Agile/Scrum Java/J2EE Developer Sparity - India - IN January 2013 to July 2014 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  ? Developed a prototype of the application and demonstrated to business users to verify the application functionality.  ? Used MongoDB to store Big Data in JSON format and Aggregation is used in MongoDB to Match, Sort and Group operation.  ? Developed UI component with AngularJS framework by utilizing the core features like MVC pattern and Dependency Injection.  ? Developed the back-end web services using Python and designed the front end of the application using Python, CSS, AJAX, JSON, Drupal and JQuery.  ? Used collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  ? Used Multithreading to improve the performance for processing of data feeds.  ? Implemented Angular JS Data Binding capability in HTML5 to give user a rich and responsive experience.  ? Used jQuery to modify DOM elements content by using cross-browser selector engine called Sizzle.  ? Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural Pattern using Spring Framework and used Spring IOC container to maintain core Objects Lifecycle.  ? Implemented test driven development (TDD), executed unit test plans and Grails Spock Test cases for all existing controllers, Services and Domain classes and Grails Pagination to display data using Grails Templates and views.  ? Implemented Spring Security for user authentication, limit login attempts and password hashing.  ? Developed Web Services (SOAP) using Spring-WS to handle user requests and interact with other components.  ? Developed the Microservices using Spring Boot and Spring Batch that create, update, delete and get the assignment information from backend.  ? Implemented Spring Boot Microservices to divide the application into various sub modules.  ? Created application on Spring Batch framework and Multithreading to improve performance.  ? Used Multithreading for faster and parallel processing of documents.  ? Implemented Web Services clients for APIs by using Spring Webservice Template class.  ? Used parsers like SAX and DOM for parsing xml documents and XSLT for XML transformations.  ? Designed and Developed Stored Procedures, Triggers in MS SQL to cater the needs for the entire application.  ? Developed complex SQL queries for extracting data from the database.  ? Involving in Building the modules in Linux environment with Ant Script.  ? Involved in writing Unix Shell Script for performing automated tasks.  ? Wrote JUnit Test cases for performing unit testing and used SoapUI for Web Services testing.  ? Implemented Java/J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate and Data Transfer Object (DTO), Data Access Object and Service Locator.  ? Used Maven as java build manager to compile and package the application  ? Used SVN as Version control to maintain a central repository for the application code.  ? Worked with QA team for testing and resolving defects and used Rally for bug tracking and project management.    Environment: Java, Spring, MyBatis, Redux, Spring Batch, MongoDB, Linux Shell Scripting, spring boot, Python, Grails, Design Patterns, Test Driven Development (TDD), Multithreading, XML, MS SQL, Spring-WS, SOA, SOAP Web Services, SoapUI, Angular JS,Node.js, ExtJS, ReactJS, jQuery, CSS, JSON, HTML5, JUnit, UML, XSLT, Log4J, SLF4J, Eclipse, Maven 2.0, WebLogic 11g, SVN, Hudson, Rally, Linux Java/J2EE Developer Syntel - IN June 2010 to December 2012 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Designed the user interfaces using JSP.  ? Developed Custom tags, JSTL to support custom User Interfaces.  ? Developed the application using Struts Framework that leverages classical Model View Controller (MVC) architecture.  ? Used GitHub version source control tool, integrated and implemented GitHub API's to configure and list the existing project repositories by using RESTful web services.  ? Loaded the data from Teradata to HDFS using Teradata Hadoop connectors.  ? Involved in Transforming Data within a Hadoop Cluster using Pig Scripts.  ? Designed and developed Microservices, using Java, Spring, and REST.  ? Implemented Business processes such as user authentication, Account Transfer using Session EJBs.  ? Deployed the applications on IBM Web Sphere Application Server.  ? Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) and Backend Messaging for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information such as payment status report.  ? Developed the Apache Ant scripts for preparing WAR files used to deploy J2EE components.  ? Front end developing of the Website Builder with AngularJS, Bootstrap.  ? Created Jenkins jobs and running the jobs to check for any build issues.  ? Integrated Jenkins with SonarQube to check for the quality standards.  ? Used JDBC for database connectivity to Oracle 8i.  ? Written PL/SQL in Oracle Database for creating tables, triggers and select statements.  ? Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns such as Singleton, Session Façade, Value Object, etc.  ? Involved in JUnit Testing, debugging, and bug fixing.  ? Used Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions and developed WAR framework to alert the client and production support in case of application failures.    Environment: Java, GitHub, J2EE,JSP, JSTL, Struts, Angular.Js, EJB, JMS, Hadoop, Hive, JNDI, Pig, Jenkins, Oracle, Typescript, Bootstrap, HTML, XML, WSAD (Web Sphere Studio Application Developer), IBM Web Sphere Application Server, Ant, CVS, Log4j, Linux Education Bachelor's Skills Ant (9 years), Java (9 years), Model view controller (9 years), Model-view-controller (9 years), Mvc (9 years)