Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Client - United Computer Solutions Chicago, IL ? Over 8+ years of strong software experience in design, development and deployment of web-based Client-Server business applications using OOP, Java/J2EE technologies.  ? Ability to efficiently translate algorithms, ideas and concepts to software applications.  ? Expertise in design with Use Case, Sequence diagrams, Activity diagrams, Class diagrams with exposure to UML, tools like Rational Rose and use of Rational Unified Process (RUP).  ? Experience in Java, JDBC, JavaBeans, Hibernate, Struts, JSP, JavaScript, JFC, Servlets, EJB, and GWT.  ? Experienced in implementing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) with XML based Web Services (SOAP/UDDI/WSDL) and REST web services with Spring Boot and Micro Services.  ? Experienced in transferring data from different data sources into HDFS systems using Kafka producers, consumers and Kafka brokers.  ? Experienced in using Amazon Web Services (AWS) and AWS SNS/SQS for delivering messages.  ? Expertise in designing and developing web and mobile applications using HTML 5, CSS3, Less, Sass, JavaScript, jQuery, nodeJs, AngularJS. Skilled at progressing from problem statement to well documented designs.  ? Experienced in Development of services that utilize AWS SDK's (Dynamo DB, Elastic Beanstalk, EC2, Lambda).  ? Experience with frameworks like Struts, Spring, JSF, AJAX frameworks and ORM frameworks like Hibernate.  ? Developed reusable and interoperable Web service modules based on SOA architecture using SOAP, RESTFUL.  ? Experienced in writing Components, Pipes and Services to separate concern and handle different situations by using Angular2 and Worked on Angular4 Enhancements.  ? Experience in working on modern MEAN Stack- MongoDB, Express, Angular and Nodejs.  ? Expertise in XML technologies such as XSL, XSLT, XML schemas, XPath, XForms, XSL-FO and parsers like SAX/DOM.  ? Expertise in developing SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) and J2EE Web Services based on SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, JAX-WS, JAXB, JAX-RPC using tools like Apache Axis.  ? Spearheaded Application Developer conversant with developing Applications using J2EE Design patterns such as MVC, Singleton, Session Facade, Service Locator, Visitor, Observer, Decorator, Front Controller, DAO.  ? Experience with Maven and Gradle for dependency, version management and Jenkins continuous integration (CI) to setup automated builds and good knowledge on Quick Build and Bamboo.  ? Knowledge of XML and related technologies like XSL, XSLT and parsers like JAXP (SAX, DOM) and JAXB.  ? Proven experience with Application Servers like IBM WebSphere 6.x/5.x/7.0, Oracle/BEA WebLogic 9.x/8.x/7.x/6.x, JBoss and Tomcat 5.x/4.x/3/x.,  ? Experienced in major relational databases Oracle 11g/10g/9i, SQL Server 2000/2005/2008, DB2, MySQL.  ? Extensive development experience in different IDE's like Eclipse 3.x, JBuilder 9.x/8.x, WSAD 5.x, IBM RAD and Altova XMLSpy.  ? Worked on creating responsive website for Smart devices using responsive design, media queries and bootstrap. Was involved in test automation for Mobile Devices based on iOS and Android.  ? Technically Savvy in using multiple databases like Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL, DB2, NOSQL DB (mongo Cassandra).  ? Involved in converting Cassandra/SQL queries to Spark transformations using Spark RDDs.  ? Adequate knowledge of Amazon RDS instance (Master-Slave replication setup) and Redshift.  ? Experience in Business Process& Decision Management Design using jBoss JBPM and jBoss Drools Rules Engine.  ? Experienced in JQuery, JavaScript, VBScript, Perl, AJAX, Adobe Flex, JSON, HTML, DHTML, CSS, Tiles, Tag Libraries. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Client - United Computer Solutions - Chicago, IL February 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Full Life Cycle of Software Development from Analysis through Design, Development, Integration and testing phases.  ? System built using Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture. Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several design patterns such as Session Façade, Business Delegate, Bean Factory, Singleton, and Observer.  ? Used Adobe Dreamweaver and WireFrame.CC from design and implementation.  ? Manage and monitor systems associated to Identity and Access Management (IAM) solutions Provide incident and problem management support.  ? Expertise in Maven for build, Jenkins and SonarQube continuous integration.  ? Developed Web services to allow communication between applications through REST over HTTP using Metro.  ? Designed and implemented application using JSP, Spring MVC, JNDI, Spring IOC.  ? Implemented transaction management using Spring AOP.  ? Used Spring Aspects for implementing functionalities like logging functionality.  ? Configured JPA to use Hibernate as ORM tool.  ? Installed/configured MQ client libraries and made MQ series for JBoss applications  ? Developing customer facing software for managing advertisements within games using Backbone.js, JavaScript / jQuery, Handlebars.js, Require.js, High charts, HTML, and Sass/Less  ? Configured Maven dependencies for application building processes  ? Used Angular 2 directives to extend HTML to create the foundation for rich and complex web application.  ? Worked with npm commands and using package. Json for managing dependencies and dev-dependencies of NodeJS applications.  ? The Restful web services have been used to retrieve and update the data using Ajax.  ? Understanding the role of FileNet and CSIF framework in the project.  ? Installation and Configuration of FileNet Capture and FileNet Capture ADR.  ? Create and program responsive SharePoint website designs with master pages, page layouts, themes, display templates, CSR/JS link, Adobe Photoshop, Dream Weaver and Share point designer.  ? Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using AJAX, JavaScript, and ReactJS.  ? Implemented different types of spring controllers as per application requirements.  ? Implemented Spring Validators, persistence layer, and service layer components using Spring/Hibernate API and Spring/Hibernate annotations. Extensively used Hibernate QL.  ? Extensively used Spring IOC, configured Application Context files and performed database object mapping using Hibernate annotations.  ? Designed RESTful web services with JSON representation for handling AJAX requests Used Advanced Rest Client plug-in to run the rest API's on local host Tomcat Server for Unit testing  ? Performed application security auditing (SAST & DAST) to ensure security of applications.  ? Implemented PL/SQL queries and used oracle stored procedures.  ? Provided production support for the application and coordinated with cross functional teams.  ? Developed client request validations and processing using JavaScript.  ? Deployed applications on WebSphere Application Server and performed required configuration changes.  ? Implemented monitoring and established best practices around usage of Elastic search.  ? Worked in Test Driven Development (TDD) using JUnit.  ? Used Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exception and for logging info and are helpful in debugging the issues.    Environment: J2EE, JMS, Spring MVC, IAM, Hibernate, Rest Web services, Metro, WebSphere Application Server, AngularJS Agile, SCRUM Methodology, JMeter, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSP, Servlet, CVS, XML, UML, Unix Shell Scripting, Oracle10g, Log4j. Sr. Java Developer Client - Priceline Group - Norwalk, CT October 2016 to January 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Analyzed the technical requirements and created various models required for the project. Implemented Model View Controller (MVC) architecture using SpringFramework Involved in design and development of a multi module Java, spring and Hibernate projects.  ? Implemented the web-based application following the MVC architecture using Spring Framework  ? In addition, used different spring modules like Spring Core, Spring AOP, Spring MVC and Spring Security.  ? Created new functionalities through enhancements and worked to troubleshoot issues and resolve bugs in software, working both internally amongst fellow developers, business analysts, and members of the support team, as well as externally, directly with clients.  ? Involved in design, development micro services with Restful and SOAP web services using Spring REST.  ? Developed Single Page applications using Angular JS 2, HTML, CSS, Semantic UI libraries and TypeScript.  ? Used Node JS to create backend REST API/JSON Response for a component.  ? Using Java Persistence API (JPA) for accessing, persisting, and managing data between Java.  ? Objects / classes and a relational database  ? Worked closely with DevOps team to set up CI/CD pipeline using Jenkins, Ansible, AWS, Maven and GIT.  ? Deploying Rest API's Application in AWS Cloud and Cloud Foundry.  ? Using Hibernate ORM tool for mapping object-oriented domain model to relational database (SQLServer).  ? Developed faster interactive Front-End using Angular UI components such as grid, Accordion, tab and progress bar components  ? Created the Node.js EXPRESS Server combined with Socket.io to build MVC framework from front-end side AngularJS to back-end MongoDB, in order to provide broadcast service as well as chatting service.  ? Build REST web service by building Node.js Server in the back-end to handle requests sent from the front-end jQuery Ajax calls.  ? Implementing batch processing for feed using spring batch framework.  ? Working with SQL Server Database, creating Stored procedures, views, tables, constraints, indexes  ? Etc. used SQL Server Management Studio.  ? Working with NO SQL database MongoDB using Mongo Booster.  ? Used H2 Database for in Memory Testing for Java Application.  ? Used Liquibase Library for tracking, managing and applying database schema changes.  ? Working with JBoss and Tomcat Application Servers.  ? Worked on Debugging for fixing the issues for optimal performance.  ? Deploying application into UNIX Servers using Nolio and Manually.  ? Used JRebel Plugin to reduce the server redeploys when code changes made  ? Merging/maintaining code using repository systems such as GIT  ? Using JUNIT and Mockito for Testing.  ? Used Cobalt platform for testing our application.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, JQuery, AJAX, GWT, GWT/GXT, JavaScript, Angular.JS, Node .JS , React .JS, PL/SQL, JDBC, Rest, Eclipse, AWS, Cloud Foundry, Web logic, Clear Case, Junit, Agile, UML JSP, JSTL, Servlet, Maven, SOA. Java Developer Client - Western Union - Denver, CO May 2014 to September 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Reviewed the functional, non-functional requirements and high-level designs.  ? Worked with Agile Methodologies.  ? Used Spring Web flow for integration purpose in application development.  ? SOAP UI is used for web services testing.  ? Developed and integrated with server components using Spring, Hibernate.  ? Developed user interfaces using JSF UI components, Validators, Events and Listeners.  ? Developed severe side validations using JSF.  ? This system is a real time J2EE Fixed Income Trading system, high frequency, low-latency. I am the developer and support of this system.  ? Experienced in creating a connection to the Laserfiche server or share an existing connection.  ? Extensively worked with core java like collections, String Builder and interfaces.  ? Develop fixed income pricing analytics, architecture and implementation, providing solutions for real time price delivery, trade capture, order management and other aspects of trade flow  ? Designed and developed various Web forms using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and JavaScript, React.JS  ? Compiled and built the application using Maven scripts and deployed the application.  ? Implemented Hash table and hash set for inserting and retrieving values.  ? Used MVC-Struts framework in the front-end to develop the User Interface.  ? Implemented enterprise applications using WSDL, SOAP and XML schema.  ? Developed different design methodology such as MVC patterns.  ? Used Hibernate for Object mapping.  ? Developed Message Driven Beans as Queue listeners for JMS queues.  ? Worked extensively in the backend SQL Server database.  ? Used Log4J for any errors in the application  ? Implemented interceptors using Hibernate and build and release Spring Boot framework.  ? Configuring SharePoint foundation services with TFS 2010.  ? Analyze and fix issues related to Soap Web services and Application responses  ? Used HTML, CSS and Java Script for developing user interface.  ? Used Spring Batch for scheduling and maintenance of batch jobs.  ? Used MAVEN as build management tool.  ? Used WSDL to post the services in the UDDI.  ? Worked with XPATH when need to identify objects in the screen.  ? Developed lookup tables and views to speed up queries.  ? Provide critical support to current order management systems being used as and when required.  ? Worked in Quality analysis and testing.    Environment: Java, EJB, Hibernate, JSF, Spring, Selenium, SQL Server 2008 R2, XML, JUnit, XSLT, IDE, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Apache Tomcat, Laserfiche, Log4j, SharePoint, TSF Java Developer Client - Mapfre Insurance - Webster, MA February 2012 to April 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Understanding Use requirements participating in design discussions, implementation feasibility analysis both at the front-end and backend level, documenting requirements.  ? Using RUP and Rational Rose, developed Use Cases, created Class, Sequence and UML diagrams.  ? Application Modeling, developing Class diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Architecture / Deployment diagrams using IBM Rational Software Modeler and publishing them to a web perspective with Java Doc.  ? Participation did in Design Review sessions for development / implementation discussions.  ? Designed & coded Presentation (GUI) JSP's with Struts tag libraries for Creating Product Service Components (Health Care Codes) using RAD.  ? Extensively worked on front end, business, and persistence tiers using the struts frameworks.  ? Designed and developed Service layer using Struts framework.  ? Written and debugged the ANT Scripts for building the entire web application  ? Developing Test Cases and unit testing using Junit  ? Involved in java multithreading to cascade multiple changes on multiple records in only one transaction and developed a batch process framework Used WSDL and SOAP protocol for Web Services implementation.  ? Coded Action classes, Java Beans, Service layers, Business delegates, to implement business logic with latest features of JDK1.5 such as Annotations and Generics.  ? Extensive use of jQuery, AJAX and JavaScript for front-end validations, and JavaScript based component development using Swing Component Framework with cross browser support.  ? Appropriate use of Session handling, data Scope levels within the application.  ? Extensively used Web Socket to connect client and server.  ? Designed and developed DAO layer with Hibernate3.0 standards, to access data from IBM DB2 database through JPA ( Java Persistence API) layer creating Object-Relational Mappings and writing PL/SQL procedures and functions  ? Integrating Spring injections for DAOs to achieve Inversion of Control, updating Spring Configurations for managing Java objects using callbacks  ? Prepared and executed JUNIT test cases to test the application service layer operations before DAO integration  ? Automated the build and deployment process using ANT build script  ? Creating test environments with WAS for local testing using test profile. And interacting with Software Quality Assurance (SQA) end to report and fix defects using Rational Clear Quest.  ? Creating views and updating code to IBM Rational Clear case for Source code control.  ? Solving QA defects, scheduling fixes, providing support to production application.    Environment: JDK, JSP, JSP Custom Tag libraries, JavaScript, EXT JS, AJAX, XSLT, XML, DOM4J, EJB, DHTML, Web Services, SOA, WSDL, SOAP, JAXB, IBM RAD, IBM WebSphere Application server, IBM DB2, UNIX, UML, IBM Rational Clear case, JMS, Struct Framework, Hibernate, PL/SQL, JUNIT, log4j, Ant. Java Developer Client - Astute Business Solutions - IN July 2010 to January 2012 Responsibilities:  ? In this Project, the service implements a complex online mortgage broker application.  ? The borrower requests a loan through a broker and the broker processes the loan request using one of the third-party partner services.  ? Mavenized the existing applications using Maven tool.  ? Added the required jar files to the application as dependencies to the pom.XML file.  ? Used JSF & Struts frameworks to interact with the front end.  ? Utilized Swing/JFC framework to develop client-side components.  ? Developed J2EE components on Eclipse IDE.  ? Created Multi Excel Comparator tool for client Suisse Bank using JAVA and effective use of data structures and algorithms, it has successfully saved 520$/ person for a month.  ? Developed a new CR screen from the existing screen for the LTL loads (Low Truck Load) using JSF.  ? Used spring framework configuration files to manage objects and to achieve dependency injection.    ? Implemented cross cutting concerns like logging and monitoring mechanism using Spring AOP.  ? Implemented SOA architecture with web services using SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and XML.  ? Made screen changes to the existing screen for the LTL (Low Truck Load) Accessories using Struts.  ? Developed desktop interface using Java Swing for maintaining and tracking products.  ? Used JAX-WS to access the external web services, get the xml response and convert it back to java objects.  ? Developed the application using Eclipse IDE and worked under Agile Environment.  ? Working with Web admin and the admin team to configure the application on development, training, test and stress environments (Web logic server).  ? Build PL\SQL functions, stored procedures, views and configured Oracle Database 11g with JNDI data source with connection pooling enabled.  ? Used Hibernate based persistence classes at data access tier.  ? Adopted J2EE design patterns like Service Locator, Session Facade and Singleton.  ? Worked on Spring Core layer, Spring ORM, Spring AOP in developing the application components  ? Modified web pages using JSP and Used Struts Validation Framework for form input validation.  ? Created the WSDL and used Apache Axis 2.0 for publishing the WSDL.  ? Creating PDF files for storing the data required for module.  ? Used custom components using JSTL tags and Tag libraries implementing struts.  ? Used Web Logic server for deploying the war files.  ? Used Toad for the DB2 database changes.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSF, Hibernate, Struts, Spring, Swing/JFC, JSP, HTML, XML, Web Logic, iText, DB2, Eclipse IDE, SOAP, Maven, JSTL, TOAD, DB2, Web Logic Server, WSDL, JAX-WS, Apache Axis. Education Bachelor's Skills ECLIPSE, J2EE, JAVA, JAVA TECHNOLOGIES, SPRING, Java J2Ee, Hibernate Additional Information Technical Skills:    Java, JAXB, JUNIT, UML, XSLT  Languages: JAVA, C, C++.  JAVA Technologies: Core JAVA, J2EE, JMS, JSP, Servlet, Swing, JPA, Java Beans, JDBC, JNDI  Internet/Distributed Technologies/Frameworks Spring, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Spring XD, Apache Camel, Mule ESB, JMS, Apache Spark, Kafka, HBase, Hive, Spring Integration, Eclipse Link JPA, SOAP/REST Web Services, Jersey API.  Caching Technologies/Frameworks: EHCache, Coherence, Gemfire, Spring Cache Abstraction  XML Frameworks: SAX and DOM Parsers, JAXB, XML, XSLT, XPATH  Application Servers/Web Servers: Web Logic, Tomcat, Jetty, IBM Web Sphere.  Software Modeling Language/TOOLs: UML, MS Visio, Rational Rose.  Methodologies: OOPS, OOAD,IDE Eclipse, Toad, RAD 7-8, Net beans.  Database: Oracle, Sybase, DB2.  Protocols: HTTP, FTP, SMTP, RMI, IIOP, SOAP/WSDL  Version Control Tools: CVS, IBM Clear Case, SVN, Perforce, GIT  Continuous Integration (CI) Jenkins, Team City, Hudson  Others TIBCO JMS, IBM MQ, Solace, JUnit, Log4j.  Operating System: Windows, Unix, Linux, MS-DOS.