Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Full Stack Developer - Credit Suisse, NY • Having strong 8+ years of experience in designing and deployment of web-based and Client-Server business applications and in building large scale multi-tire enterprises using Java/J2EE technologies in domains like Investment Banking, Ecommerce, Insurance and Health.  • In charge of Research and Development and working with the following software stack: Java1.8, C, C++, MySQL, Oracle, Cassandra, Elasticsearch, Couchbase, Hazel cast, Apache, AWS.  • Proficient in working under various Agile Methodologies like Software Development Life Cycle SDLC Requirements Specification, Test Driven Development (TDD), SCRUM.  • Extensive experience in developing applications Single Page (SPAs) using various JavaScript frameworks like Angular, Bootstrap, Ajax, jQuery, CSS3& HTML5 and Back-end (Server) like NodeJS, Express.  • Experienced in Full stack UI technologies using Grunt, Gulp Server, Yeoman generator for Angular.  • Expertise in using inbuilt and custom AngularJS directives and filters to add functionalities to the web page.  • Used Java8 features like Lambda expressions, Streams, filters and fetching documents from the database.  • Developed a lot of core modules in large cross-platform applications using J2EE, Struts, JMS, JDBC, JSF, MyBATIS, Hibernate, JSP, Servlets, EJB, E-Commerce.  • Strong hands on experience in working with Spring Framework modules such as Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, JTA, IO, Spring Boot, Microservices, Spring REST, Spring Batch, Security, Spring Eureka, Spring Netflix, Spring Ribbon, Swagger, Spring Data JPA.  • Experienced in Middleware persistence frameworks like Hibernate/JPA Entities for mapping Java classes using Hibernate Query Language (HQL), HSQL Named Queries, Criteria, Projections  • Expertise in producing and consuming SOAP as well as REST web services using WSDL, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, Apache Axis, Apache CXF, Apache Camel, JERSEY, Rule Engines (Drools, ILOG).  • Expertise in Java Messaging Service like Rabbit MQ, IBM MQ, Active MQ and Apache Kafka with Zoo Keeper.  • Hands on experience with Cloud Computing platforms like Amazon Web Services (AWS) for building, deploying, developing and managing and applications and servers. Experience focusing on services like EC2, Elastic Beanstalk, CloudWatch, CloudFront, CloudFormation, IAM, S3, RDS, Elastic Cache, SNS, SQS, AMI.  • Worked with Design Patterns like Singleton, Factory, Prototype, Front-Controller, Session Facade, Service-Locator, Data Access Object (DAO), Data Transfer Object (DTO), MVC, Business-Delegate.  • Experience in creating Docker images, Containers, push/pull and integrating with Spring Boot.  • Experience in database modeling, design and development of PL/SQL stored procedures, packages in RDBMS like Oracle, DB2, Postgre SQL, MySQL and H2 and integrating with ORM Frameworks like Hibernate.  • Strong experience with MongoDB development (reports, schema design, map reduce functions) and migrations from SQL relational databases to NoSQL databases like MongoDB, Cassandra and CouchDB.  • Strong experience in performing test activities in environments like JUnit Framework using Mockito and Easy Mock, Spring JUnit Runner, Jmeter and JUnit, Selenium, CURL, SoapUI.  • Experience using ticketing system like JIRA tickets to address system issues, user requests, etc.,  • Experience in Build/Deploy tools like - Ant, Maven, Gradle, Jenkins, CVS, GitHub and Cruise Control.  • Knowledge of Search Engine Optimization, Web Accessibility and Web Securities.  • Hands on experience with Logging tools like Log4J and Splunk.  • Experience working as an individual contributor and as a team member coordinating with another team members possessing excellent technical background, communication and presentation skills. Work Experience Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Credit Suisse, NY May 2018 to Present Description: Credit Suisse Group AG is a Swiss multinational investment bank and financial services company. providing services in investment banking, private banking, asset management, and shared services. The project is about proving customers with Treasury services and Global FX to trade foreign currencies from there various accounts, customer can choose a contract and enter a payment against these contracts.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, design, and implementation and testing phases of SDLC through Agile Methodology.  • Building the application based on Micro Services Oriented Architecture and developed dynamic single page applications using Angular framework with HTML5, CSS3, and Bootstrap.  • Developed multiple Angular components, compatible with latest version of Type script, angular CLI.  • Experienced with core java technologies in Multi-Threading, Synchronization & Exception Handling.  • Java8 Stream API for Bulk Data Operations on Collections using both streams and parallel streams.  • Heavily used Spring Inheritance, Auto-wiring, Core Container, Security, AOP, ORM modules as part of migration from EJB to spring, Spring Quartz for scheduling tasks to generate reports and emails to clients.  • Developed Spring Restful architecture using Rest APIs, spring boot and pivotal cloud foundry. Implemented Spring Eureka, Netflix, Ribbon as part of Services Discovery using Apache Axis.  • Used several Spring Features Spring MVC, Spring DAO, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Spring Security, Spring Integration, Spring IOC, Spring AOP to implement business layer and navigation part of application.  • Secured API's by implementing OAuth 2.0 token-based authentication/authorization using Spring Security.  • Implemented Docker contained Spring Boot Microservices in to AWS EC2 container service using AWS admin console and used Lambda, EC2, Elastic Beanstalk, Cloud Watch, Cloud Formation, IAM, S3, RDS, ElastiCache, SNS, (Amazon messaging services) SQS to build and deploy transcoding application.  • Utilized AWS Lambda platform to upload data into AWS S3 buckets and to trigger other Lambda functions.  • Developed Mongo DB Data Access Layer implementing Mongo Repository interface from Spring Data.  • Used Jenkins as a primary tool for implementing the continuous integration continuous delivery CICD during code releases, worked with CICD pipe line to build and deploy transcoding application on AWS.  • Worked with employment of Apache Kafka and Zookeeper apart from JMS as messaging service.  • Used Hibernate, object/relational-mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with SQL-based schema.  • Implemented the associated business modules integration using spring and Hibernate data mapping.  • Developed Microservices for distributing different tasks of the system into different services for enhancing cohesion and for reduce coupling. Load balancing among servers executed by using Spring Ribbon.  • Developed several REST web services which produces both XML and JSON to perform tasks, leveraged by both Web Services as well other enterprise wide Web Services.  • Built the Application using design patterns-Singleton, Factory, DAO, DTO prototype & Composite View.  • Used spring and Hibernate for implementing IOC, AOP and ORM for back end tiers.  • Worked on design of custom Docker container images, tagging, pushing images, integration of Spring boot.  • Created the Docker containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle.  • Used Maven as build and dependency management tool for creating EAR, WAR and JAR file to be deployed in application servers and integrated with SVN, Jenkins, JMeter and Jenkins Jobs.  • Used Apache Maven as the software build tool and Log4J for logging errors and messages.  • Created automation test scripts using Selenium Web-Driver for multiple platforms and browsers testing.  • Used Drools Engine for writing Business Validation rules and GIT for Source Control and Version Management.    Environment: JAVA 8, Spring MVC, Microservices, Spring Boot, Angular , HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, JSON, Hibernate, Mongo DB, Oracle 12c, IntelliJ IDEA, JUNIT 4.4, Restful web services, SVN, Jenkins, JMeter Scala, AWS, Drools, Docker, Spring Cloud, Spring Security, OAuth 2.0, Apache Kafka, Selenium, Jenkins. Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Staples, Massachusetts August 2017 to April 2018 Description: Staples is a retail-based company. It is primarily involved in the sale of office supplies and related products, via retail channels and business-to-business (B2B)-oriented delivery operations. Worked on an application called Cloud Application Design, developed the pricing modules and user module systems for an expected outcome.    Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile Methodology (Scrum) to meet customer expectation, timelines with quality deliverables.  • Designed and developed the User Interface using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery and enhanced response using twitter Bootstrap and Angular.  • Developed Full stack development based on J2EE specifications with Microservices architecture.  • Implemented security for different front-end views based on the access privileges.  • Utilized Object Oriented Programming in JavaScript and DOM structure to implement various functionalities and DOM parser to parse the XML documents and XSLT for transformations.  • Used Selectors, Events, AJAX & Dom Manipulation components in Angular directives, filters, services.  • Extensively used the JavaScript and jQuery plug-in to fetch and display the data on web pages and create interactive features in the application. Worked with jQuery concepts like selectors, and filters.  • Coded pages with best Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques.  • Designed applications that execute on various browsers such as Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Google Chrome, and Opera using various debugging tools like Firebugs/IE Developer Tools.  • Used J2EE design patterns like Value Object Pattern, Session façade, Singleton, Factory and DAO.  • Used the application using Spring Framework Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring Boot and handled the security using Spring Security. Developed Restful web services architecture using Rest APIs.  • Used Spring Inversion of Control (IOC) for injecting the beans and reduced the coupling between the classes. Implemented the Model View Controller using Spring MVC.  • Used spring actuator- configuring spring boot application, monitoring and invoking HTTP endpoints  • Developed services that are reusable and interoperable, based on REST Api, WSDL, JAXWS, JAXRPC.  • Implemented persistence layer using Hibernate that uses the POJOs to represent the persistence database tuples. Worked with POJO for handling data coming from the legacy systems.  • Worked with deploying the Cassandra Cluster in cloud, On premises, Data Storage and disaster recovery.  • Used MongoDB &Oracle DB for the application. The legacy info was going to Oracle & rest to MongoDB.  • Performed various CRUD operations in MongoDB.  • Used JMS for the asynchronous exchange of critical data and events among J2EE components. Used JMS over messaging to exchange the information in more reliable and asynchronous way in enterprise Applications. Used Apache ActiveMQ and Apache Camel as JMS provider.  • Configured Swagger-UI registered Microservice with Ribbon, Eureka server to monitor services health.  • Continuous integration services are provided for software development using Jenkins.  • Implemented a Continuous Delivery and pipeline with Docker and AWS.  • Spring with Tiles Framework is implemented for a common look in all the presentation views.  • Actively involved in Analysis, Design, Development, System Testing and User Acceptance Testing. Successfully followed agile methodology in the Scrum Cycle model to help, respond quickly to business.  • Developed JUnit test cases for DAO and Service Layer methods for all the developed modules.  • Executed test scripts using Selenium web driver & analyzed the test results & implemented navigation using Spring MVC controllers and configured controllers using Spring MVC annotations and configuration files.  • Developed the ANT scripts for preparing WAR files used to deploy J2EE components.  • Used GIT as Version Control and iText to generate pdf in the form of a tree. Done unit testing using Test NG.  • Used GIT as version management, JIRA for defect management system.  • Used Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.    Environment: Java 8, J2EE, Spring, Spring DI, Spring Actuator, Microservices, Spring Boot, Spring Security, REST API, WSDL, JAXWS, JAXRPC, JMS, Curl, Hibernate, HTML5, CSS3, Angular 2, JavaScript, jQuery, Swagger, Jenkins, Elasticsearch, JSP, AJAX, Docker, Eureka, Selenium, Mango DB, Couchbase, Drools, ANT, GIT, JIRA. Java Full Stack Developer Bajaj Allianz - Hyderabad, Telangana December 2015 to July 2017 Description: Bajaj Allianz General Insurance company is India's leading private general insurance company in India. The project aims to provide the company with the auto premium policy decisions. The client programs are used for issuing or retrieving data from database depending on the policy premiums.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the design and development phases of Agile Software Development.  • Used the various services using Microservices architecture in which the services working Independently.  • Analyzed current Mainframe system and designed new GUI screens.  • Created Responsive Layouts for multiple devices and platforms using foundation framework.  • Using Angular created custom directives for data manipulations and to display data in company standard format in UI. Involved in analysis, design and developing front end/UI using JSP, HTML5, CSS3, DHTML, jQuery, JavaScript and AJAX.  • Worked on UNIX to move the project into production environment.  • Created Managed Beans for handling JSF pages and include logic for processing of the data on the page.  • Used Object/Relational mapping tool Hibernate to achieve object to database table persistency.  • Creation of WebLogic domains and setup Admin & Managed servers for JAVA/J2EE applications on Non-Production and Production environments.  • Used NodeJS to run Grunt tasks and properly build the project.  • Used Spring Frameworks which includes Microservices, Spring core, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring DAO, Spring MVC, Spring JPA, Spring Boot implementing REST.  • Then later moved the architecture from Spring using xml into all Spring java configuration environment.  • Checked Server health, security and Creation of Connection Pools, Data Sources in WebLogic/JBoss console.  • Involved in configuring hibernate to access database and retrieve data from the database.  • Used NoSQL (MongoDB) and stored procedures as part of database interaction. Performed CRUD operations using Hibernate ORM framework for mapping database and Database Transactions. Used Hazel cast techniques to reduce the query load on databases and improve speed.  • Written Web Services (JAX-WS) for external system via REST/SOAP/HTTP call.  • Used Gradle for writing custom logic to applications. Used ELK stack for Logging and also used Log4j framework to log/track application. Used Rabbit MQ as Java messaging services (JMS).  • Strong experience with CICD (Continuous Deployment) methodologies with Jenkins.  • Worked on migration to AWS from on prem servers. Developed AWS S3 to copy project artifact into S3 bucket. Integrated Open stack API with Amazon EC2 cloud-based architecture in AWS.  • Used JIRA tool for Issue/bug tracking, monitoring of work assignment in the system  • Creating and updating existing build scripts using ANT for deployment Tested and Used Rational Clear Case for Version Control. Used SVN as version control tool.  • Used FileNet for Content Management and for streamlining Business Processes.  Environment: FileNet, IBM RAD 6.0, Scala, Java 8/7, JSP, Servlets, Microservices, REST Api, Core Java, Spring, Spring Boot, Swing, Hibernate, Hazel cast, JSF, ICE Faces, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, NodeJS, UNIX, Web Services- SOAP, WAS 6.1, XML, IBM, Rabbit MQ, WebSphere 6.1, Rational Clear Case, Log 4j, IBM DB2. J2EE Developer Aditya Hospitals - Hyderabad, Telangana March 2014 to November 2015 Description: Aditya Hospitals, one of the multinational hospitals with the team of experienced doctors providing best human health care. The project was to develop an application which provides all the patients information to the doctor.    Responsibilities:  • Worked as a J2EE developer and involved in all the phases of development life cycle. Analysis of requirements, the design, development, integration, deployment and testing.  • Developed interactive Web Interface using AngularJS, AJAX, Java Script, JSP, HTML4 and CSS2/3.  • Involved in the development of model, library, struts and form classes (MVC).  • Implemented Spring Framework spring core, AOP, Spring Rest, and created the Dependency injection for the action classes using ApplicationContext.xml and Automatically wire beans together using Autowired annotation. Configure the Spring IOC container for Dependency Injection.  • Integrated different modules of Spring Framework such as Spring MVC, IOC, DI, Spring, Spring Aspects, REST, Spring Integration, Spring Testing and Spring JDBC and good hands-on experience with Spring IOC.  • Worked on MQ with J2EE technologies on the Active MQ.  • Used display tag libraries for decoration and used display table for reports and grid designs.  • Implemented SOA architecture with web services using SOAP and XML.  • Involved in configuration of XML flat file and parsing the XML file using the SAX Parser.  • Analyzed, designed and implemented DAO pattern for accessing Database using connection pool.  • Used PL/SQL stored procedures for applications that needed to execute as part of a scheduling mechanisms.  • Worked on diverse ways to increase performance of the Application through use of methodologies like asynchronous calls to database, stored procedures in place of Dynamic SQL, etc.  • Created snapshots and also images to store launch configurations of the EC2 instances. Good knowledge in Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Deployment (CD) methodologies.  • Implemented Docker-maven-plugin in maven pom to build Docker images for all micro services and later used Docker file to build the Docker images from the java jar files.  • Implemented JReport for annual report generation with charts.  • Configured Apache Tomcat Application server and deployed the web components.  • Used Junit and cucumber for testing.  • Used GIT and SVN for source control and JIRA for tracking purposes.  Environment: JDK1.5, JSP, JSF, Struts, MyBATIS, Microservices, Spring Rest, AngularJS, HTML, JavaScript, Hazel cast, AJAX, CSS, XML, EJB, PL/SQL, Tomcat, JUnit, SOAP, EC2, Active MQ, SAX Parser. Software Developer Spencer's Retail - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2012 to February 2014 Description: Spencer's Retails helps in Designing and developing with a maintenance of enterprise application software, improving business processes and support critical business procedures. Involved in multiple projects simultaneously.    Responsibilities:  • Worked as a Java Developer. Involved in Agile development process.  • Implemented MVC-Model 2 architecture using Struts & other J2EE design patterns for the app development.  • Used Struts Framework along with JSP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript to construct the dynamic web pages.  • Designed DTDs, XML Schema for data transmission and XSL style-sheets.  • Adopted J2EE design patterns, Singleton and used DTO's transfer the data.  • Used NodeJS to structure JavaScript code to build endpoints.  • Designed, developed and maintained the data layer using the ORM frame work called Hibernate.  • Involved in the development of SQL queries to get data from MySQL.  • Used ANT for building and deploying NBT application to servers.  • Extensively worked on Object Oriented Programming aspect of Java using JDK1.5 for collections along with comparator, Multithreading, thread synchronization.  • Used Hibernate to persist the Data into the Database.  • Used Maven build script for building and deploying Bluestone application.  • Using Eclipse IDE for bluestone application development of Java related classes and components.  • Deployed the application on Tomcat 6/5.5 and used shell scripting for maintaining servers.  • Production supported after release. Used Mercurial Version Control.  • Deployed the NBT application in WebLogic, Tomcat servers on Solaris and Windows environments.  • Developed Unit Tests and Test Suites using JUnit.    Environment: java1.6, C++ Struts2.0, NodeJS, JSP 2.0, Ajax, XML, HTML, ANT, CSS, JavaScript, JBuilder, custom JSP tags, JSTL, Mercurial, FTP, UNIX (AIX), Hibernate3, MySQL, WebLogic, Continuum, Tomcat6.0/ 5.5, Windows XP. Software Developer Soft Force - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2011 to May 2012 Description: We create interactive, modern, eye-catching websites. We help you build strong online presence for your business by creating a professional website which best suits your needs and target audience. We're passionate about helping businesses improve their online user experience and there for generate more traffic to their website and increase online sales.    Responsibilities:  • Developed PL/SQL queries to generate reports based on client requirements.  • Developed Servlets and Java Server Pages (JSP).  • Enhancement of the System according to the customer requirements.  • Created test case scenarios for Functional Testing.  • Used Java Script validation in JSP pages.  • Helped design the database tables for optimal storage of data.  • Coded JDBC calls in the servlets to access the Oracle database tables.  • Responsible for Integration, unit testing, system testing and stress testing for all the phases of project.  • Prepared final guideline document that would serve as a tutorial for the users of this application.    Environment: Java, C, Servlets, J2EE, JDBC, PL/SQL, HTML, JSP, Eclipse, UNIX. Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Java/J2EE Technologies Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JDBC, JMS, JNDI, EJB, JPA  Programming Languages Java 8.0/7.0/6.0/5.0, PL/SQL, C, C++  Application/Web Servers WebSphere, Jenkins, JBoss, Tomcat 8, IBM WebSphere 8.x/9.x  Frameworks Struts 2.x/1.x, Spring 4.3, Hibernate 3.0/4.x, JSF 1.2/2.0, MyBatis, Log4J  IDEs Eclipse, IntelliJ 2017.1, NetBeans 8.0.2, Spring Tool Suite (STS) 3.8.3  Web technologies JavaScript 1.8, jQuery 2.11, AJAX, XML 2.2, HTML 5, DHTML, CSS 3, CSS 4, Angular JS 1.0/1.5/2.0, NodeJS  Web Services JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, SOAP 1.2, WSDL, UDDI, REST 2.2, JAXB, Apache Axis  Methodologies Agile, Scrum, TDD(Test-Driven-Development), OOAD, SDLC  Modelling Tools UML, Rational Rose  Testing Tools JUnit 4.12, JIRA 7.0, Selenium  Database Servers Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g, SQL server 2012/2014/2016, MySQL 5.7, DB2 11.1  NoSQL Databases MongoDB, Cassandra, Couch DB  Build Tools ANT, Maven 3.3.9, Gradle 3.4.1  Platforms Windows, Mac, LINUX, UNIX  Version Control GIT, CVS, SVN, Rational ClearCase