J2EE/ Java Developer J2EE/ <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> J2EE/ Java Developer - Sprint Kansas City, MO • A competent professional with Around 8 years of experience with complete Software Development Life Cycle in both Web based and Enterprise applications including requirement analysis, design, and implementation and testing with emphasis on Object Oriented, Java/J2EE and Client Server technologies.  • Utilized Java 8 features like Lambda expressions for collection evaluations and comparing the data, Stream API for bulk data operations on collections which would increase the performance of the application.  • Excellent in deploying the applications in AWS as EC2 instances and create snapshots for the data that have to be stored in AWS S3.  • Utilized Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2 to deploy Docker containers with both monolith and Micro ssssServices architecture.  • Created and Configure Micro Service architecture for CDT Directory project and integrated with AngularJS application.  • Created continuous delivery pipeline for CDT Directory to run the war, Ami and deploy jobs in Jenkins brew master instance, which reduces the time for the deployment of micro services.  • Experienced in developing SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) and J2EE Web Services based on RESTful, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, JAX-WS, JAXB, JAX-RS using tools like Apache Axis.  • Experience in developing applications using waterfall, Agile (XP and Scrum) methodologies and Test First, Test Driven Development and Service orientation architecture.  • Expertise in Front-End UI technologies like HTML5, CSS, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, Node JS, AngularJS, Backbone JS, Bootstrap, Tag Libraries, JSTL.  • Experienced in J2EE Technology-Spring, Hibernate, Struts, Servlets, JSP, EJB, JPA, JDBC, JTA, JavaBeans, JMS (MQ series).  • Proficient in implementation of frameworks like JSF, AJAX frameworks and ORM frameworks like Hibernate  • Experience in developing web applications on MVC based frameworks like spring, Spring IOC, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Batch and Spring MVC.  • Well versed with different Design Patterns like Singleton, Factory, Prototype, Front-Controller, Session Façade, Service-Locator, Data Access Object (DAO), Data Transfer Object (DTO), MVC, Business-Delegate.  • Experienced in process, validate, parse, and extract data from XML using as XSL, XSLT, XML schemas, XPath, XForms, XSL-FO and parsers like SAX, DOM.  • Expert in Core Java with strong understanding of Garbage Collector, Collections, Multithreading, Event handling, Exception handling and Generics.  • Expertise with object oriented design (OOD), analysis (OOA), and modeling (OOM) based on Unified Modeling Language (UML) architecture.  • Experienced in writing SQL and PL/SQL scripts including views, indexes, sequences, packages, procedures, functions, database triggers.  • Extensive experience on Oracle, MySQL, MS SQL Server, IBM DB2 and Solid understanding of Database Management System.  • Good Knowledge of modern NoSQL platforms (Mongo DB, Cassandra and Dynamo DB).  • Good Skills in using Dojo Components and integrating back-end applications with AJAX driven web 2.0 front-end using OO JavaScript Framework.  • Experienced in JMS over messaging to exchange the information in more reliable and asynchronous way in enterprise Applications. Used Apache ActiveMQ and Apache Camel as JMS provider.  • Experience on different IDEs such as IntelliJ IDEA, Eclipse, Spring Tool Suite, RAD and deployment using Application Servers like Apache Tomcat, BEA WebLogic, Web Sphere, Glassfish, Camel and JBOSS.  • Healthy Experience with Selenium, JUnit, Mockito, Log4j in developing test cases and determining application functionality.  • Good Knowledge on Jasper Reporting Tool and Rational Clear Case  • Expert in writing ANT and Maven for builds and deployments to different environments.  • Experience on UNIX/LINUX Shell Scripting and Deployment of Applications in Server.  • Excellent work experience with Version Control Tools such as VSS, SVN and GitHub.  • Outstanding written and verbal communication skills, Analytical, Problem Solving skills, strict attention to detail and ability to work independently, work within a team environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience J2EE/ Java Developer Sprint - Kansas City, MO January 2017 to Present Description:  Sprint Synaptic Storage as a Service is a web services-based storage solution that easily scales up and down to any size you need and allows you to pay only for the storage you use. It provides elastic capacity on demand with no commitments, minimums, or limits and allows access to your  Stored data from virtually anywhere and anytime.    RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Involved in analysis, specification, design, implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) based on the functional requirements.  • Application is implemented using agile methodology where there is a daily SCRUM meeting to understand the status and resolve any issues.  • Upgraded existing UI with HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, Bootstrap and Angular JS interaction.  • Designed and developed the End Points (Controllers), Business Layer, DAO Layer using Hibernate/JDBC template and Spring IOC (Dependency Injection).  • Implemented the application using Spring IOC, Spring MVC Framework, Spring Batch and handled the security using Spring Security.  • Spring MVC model integration for front-end request action controller.  • Developed the persistence layer using Hibernate Framework, created the POJO objects and mapped using Hibernate annotations and Transaction Management.  • Extensively used hibernate named queries, criteria queries, Hibernate Query Language (HQL) and Optimistic Locking and Caching to process the data from the database.  • Involved in creating various Data Access Objects (DAO) for addition, modification and deletion of records using various specification files.  • Implemented Restful web services using JAX-RS annotations, Jersey as provider and implemented security using Oauth.  • Consumed SOAP and Restful web services in SOA environment and used SOAP UI for testing.  • Created flows on messaging using Active MQ.  • Extensively used JUnit for unit testing, integration testing and production testing.  • Involved in installing and configuring Maven for application builds and deployment.  • Used JIRA to assign, track, report and audit the issues in the application.  • Setup the continuous Integration (CI) process for the application using the Jenkins.  Environment: Java, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JQuery, Angular JS, Spring, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Batch, Spring Security, JDBC, XML, XSD, SOAP UI, Restful, SOAP, Log4j, SOA (Service Oriented Architecture), Oracle, Web Sphere Application Server, Agile Methodology, JUnit, Maven, Jenkins, GIT, JIRA and Eclipse. JAVA/J2EE DEVELOPER DELL - Austin, TX October 2014 to December 2016 Description: Web Application that keeps a track of the order flow, stock monitoring, raising of invoices, credit memos, debit memos to customers, updating the stock level in inventory, raising purchase orders, checking the orders dispatched and generating various reports of stock status, customers report and sales report.    RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Involved in the complete SDLC (software development life cycle) of the application from requirement analysis to testing.  • Followed Agile Methodology in analyze, define, and document the application, which will support functional and business requirements. Coordinate these efforts with Functional Architects.  • Developed the application using J2EE Design Patterns like Business Delegate, Factory, Singleton, Session Facade, Service Locator and DAO.  • Developed the UI using HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript for interactive cross browser functionality and complex user interface.  • Involved in designing the client side module architecture based on new Angular Framework.  • Used Node JS to run Angular JS on server with mock JSON data and completed the UI development independent of server.  • Designed and developed third- party Payment Services to Offer Users Convenient Payment Methods based on OAuth 2.0 Protocol.  • Used Java 8 Lambda expression for rewriting the code.  • Used the fundamentals of Java8 features like parallel streams and filters through lambda expressions to handle searching.  • Implemented the application using Spring MVC Framework and handled the authentication, authorization, and access-control features by using Spring Security  • Configured Spring Container to implement IOC/DI of the Spring Beans, and to manage the beans' life circle.  • Used Spring MVC framework to enable the interactions between JSP/View layer and implemented different DPs.  • Designed and developed Microservices business components using Spring Boot.  • Created Rest service for authentication using Spring Boot with embedded Tomcat server on Docker Container.  • Used Hibernate, object /relational mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with an SQL-based schema.  • Designed, Configured and deployed Amazon Web Services (AWS) for a multitude of applications utilizing the Amazon cloud formation.  • Created event driven jobs using AWS like S3, DynamoDB, SQS and AWS Lamda with java  • Utilized Amazon Web Services EC2 to deploy Docker container with both monolith and Micro Services architecture.  • Designed, built, and deployed a multitude applications utilizing almost all of the AWS stack (Including EC2, R53, S3, RDS, Dynamo DB, SQS, IAM, and EMR), focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling.  • Used Jersey to implement Restful Web Service and used XML form to transfer the data.  • Used Rest Controllers to replace the existing operations layer, which acts as bridge between business layer and the UI.  • Expertise in working with server side technologies including databases, Restful API and MVC design patterns.  • Used both Oracle and No SQL Mongo DB database to persist the data.  • Deployed the Web Application in IBM WebSphere.  • Parsing of XML using SAX and DOM Parsers.  • Involved in installing and configuring Maven for application builds and deployment.  • Worked on Log4J to validate functionalities  • Used JIRA to assign, track, report and audit the issues in the application.  • Setup the continuous Integration (CI) process for the application using the Jenkins.  • Used GIT to maintain the version of the files and took the responsibility to do the code merges from branch to trunk and creating new branch when new feature implementation starts.    Environment: JAVA, JAVA1.8, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, Node JS, Spring, Hibernate, SOAP, MVC, Restful Web Service, SQL, IBM Web Sphere, SQL Server, JUnit, Jira tool, Maven, Amazon Web Services(AWS), Micro Services Architecture, JIRA, STS, Oracle, Mongo DB, OAuth, XML, DOM, Unix Scripting and GIT. Java/J2EE Developer American Family Insurance - Madison, WI August 2012 to September 2014 Description: American Family Insurance is a main protection and money related administrations association. The undertaking is an online protection approach application. Organization framework permits approved specialists to cite and submit new arrangement applications, view approach statuses and submit strategy supports. The framework will control the operator through the arrangement application and support. Forms and consequently apply guaranteeing rules while submitting exchanges.    Responsibilities:  • Used Agile methodology and actively participated in Scrum meetings to produce quality deliverables within time.  • Responsible for creating Use Case diagrams, Object Model diagrams, Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams and deployment diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Developed the presentation layer using HTML, CSS, Java Script, JQuery, JSPs and XML.  • Apache Lucene (Search Engine) Configuration and Business Objects XI Reporting with Site Minder Integration.  • Designed and implemented application using JSP, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring Annotations, Spring AOP, Spring Transactions, Hibernate, JDBC, SQL, MAVEN, Oracle.  • System built using Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture. Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several design patterns such as Composite View, Bean Factory, Singleton, Data Access Object and data transfer object.  • Used Hibernate framework for back end development and Spring dependency injection for middle layer development.  • Used Spring Aspects for implementing functionalities like logging functionality.  • Configured JPA to use Hibernate as ORM tool.  • Deployed project on web application server in Linux environment.  • Implemented different types of spring controllers as per application requirements.  • Extensively used Spring IOC, configured Application Context files and performed database object mapping using Hibernate annotations.  • Spring Validators, persistence layer, DAO and service layer components using Spring/Hibernate API and Spring/Hibernate annotations. Extensively used Hibernate Query Language.  • Responsible for Production support activities like Jobs monitoring, log the load statistics, analysis and resolve in case of any production issues, coordinate with business to fix any source file issues, coordinate with DBA to resolve any table space or file system related issues.  • Developed Web services to allow communication between application through SOAP over HTTP.  • Used JBoss Application server to deliver a new class of enterprise applications that enhance business interactions and transactions between a company and its key constituencies.  • Wrote Database objects like Triggers, Stored procedures in SQL.  • Interacted with the users and documented the System.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, XML, JSP, Servlets, Rational Rose, JBoss, REST Web services, Hibernate, JPA, JDBC, Spring Framework, SVN, SQL Server, PL/SQL, Agile, MAVEN, Eclipse, and Linux. Java Developer BDL - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2010 to July 2012 Description:  This project was designed to build the under water weapon systems and air-to-air missiles and associated equipment with technology support from DRDO. BDL is to be closely involved with the programme wherein it was identified as the Prime Production Agency..The Company is poised to enter new avenues of manufacturing, covering a wide range of weapon systems such as Surface-to-Air Missiles, Air Defence Systems, Heavy Weight Torpedoes, Air-to-Air Missiles.    RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Designed and Developed web interface for admin module using Struts MVC framework to search, reset password, lock/unlock the user accounts.  • Developed and implemented the interactive functionality using JSP, Tiles framework.  • Extensively used Struts Validator for server-side validations and JavaScript for client-side validations.  • Developed Stored Procedures, queries to extract the Customers data from the database.  • Used Subversion for Version Control Management.  • Extensively used the Struts tag libraries (Bean Tags, Logic Tags and HTML Tags etc.) and Custom tag libraries.  • Involved in code reviews, debugging and testing.  • Used connection pooling for optimization using JDBC interface.  • Flexibly used J2EE design patterns like Value Object, Data Access Object and Singleton.  • Prepared Use-Cases from the given requirements and interacted with clients for requirements gathering and clarifications.  • Developed Utility Classes, which are used throughout the application.  ENVIRONMENT: Java, JSP, Struts Framework 1.2, JDBC, UML, JavaScript, HTML, Oracle 9i, Toad, WSAD, Maven, Subversion, Log4J, WebSphere and Windows NT. Education Bachelor's Skills DATABASE (8 years), JAVA (8 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (8 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (8 years), MVC (8 years), Java, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JQuery, Angular JS, Spring, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Batch, Spring Security, JDBC, XML, XSD, SOAP UI, Restful, SOAP, Log4j, SOA (Service Oriented Architecture), Oracle, Web Sphere Application Server, Agile Methodology, JUnit, Maven, Jenkins, GIT, JIRA and Eclipse. (8 years), Java J2Ee, Spring, J2Ee, Rest, Hibernate Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Languages C, C++, Java, SQL and PL/SQL.  WEB Technologies HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Javascript, JQuery, Ajax, Angular JS, Node JS and Backbone JS.  XML Technologies XML, SAX, DOM, XSL, XSLT, XSD, DTD, XPath, WSDL and SOAP.  Tools & Framework  Servlets, Struts, Spring IOC, Spring-MVC, Spring -ORM, Spring-AOP, Spring Batch, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Hibernate, Gradle, Maven IBatis and Tiles.    Web Services SOAP, RESTful, UDDI, WSDL, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS JAX-WS, Axis, jersey, Amazon Web Services (AWS) and Micro Services Architecture.  Web/App Servers Web Sphere, Web Logic, Apache Tomcat and JBOSS.  Database Oracle, My SQL Server, IBM DB2, Mongo DB and Dynamo DB.  Development Tools STS, Eclipse, IntelliJ, RAD and NetBeans.  Version Control GIT, CVS, SVN and Rational Clear Case.  Modeling/ CASE Tools Rational Rose and MS Visio Professional.  Testing Tools/ Others JUnit, Soap UI, Putty, Win SCP, selenium and Mockito.  OS & Environment Windows, UNIX and LINUX.