Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - Meijer, Michigan Michigan City, IN • Having 7+ years of experience in Java and J2EE technologies.  • Worked on different domains majorly on Banking and Finance.  • Hands on experience on Struts, Spring and Hibernate frameworks.  • Experience in developing and deploying session beans, entity beans representing different types of business logic abstractions.  • Experience in Java design patterns such as Session Facade, Singleton, Data Access Objects (DAO), and Business Delegate.  • Experience in writing DAO using Hibernate and Hibernate mapping files.  • Expertise on UI Technologies - JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, Bootstrap, AngularJS.  • Hands on experience on SOAP and Restful Web Services.  • Adept at SDLC, Object Oriented Programming and Design Patterns.  • Well experienced in Core Java - asynchronous programming, multithreading, collections, JMS Messaging and a few design patterns.  • Hands on experience in developing test cases using JUNIT.  • Developed applications on different IDE's such as Intellij idea, Eclipse and NetBeans.  • Hands on experience in Tomcat Web Server, JBoss 4.2.3 application Server, IBM Web Sphere, Web logic and Glassfish servers.  • Experience with Cloud platforms and Spring cloud toolset.  • Good experience with databases, writing queries and stored procedures using Oracle 11g, MS SQL Server, My SQL and PL/SQL.  • Experience in developing application, automated scripts leveraging MongoDB.  • Strong experience with Mongoose, used to access MongoDB on the server.  • Worked extensively on XML using SAX, DOM and JAXB components.  • Exposure on JSON using JACKSON framework.  • Efficient in packaging & deploying J2EE applications using ANT and Maven.  • Experienced in configuration management tools like CVS, clear Case and SVN.  • Extensive experience in all phases of SDLC which includes Client Interaction, Analysis, Development.  • Actively involved with the team, management & client as a part of Agile (SCRUM) software development.  • Coordinates and defect resolution tracks system and UAT defects with developers and testing resources to resolve them within SLAs.  • Strong analytical, problem solving, communication and troubleshooting skills, willingness and ability to quickly adapt to new environments and learn new technologies.  • Highly skilled in coordinating Onsite-Offshore team model.  • Strengths in Self-motivated, diligent and an Excellent Team player.  • Good organizational skills and the ability to prioritize workload to meet project goals within tight deadlines.  Sponsorship required to work in the US Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Developer Meijer, Michigan August 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Engaged in analysis, design, and development and testing for Club System business components.  • Worked on enhancing functionalities and bug fixing.  • Wrote backend jobs based on Core Java & Oracle Data Base to be run daily/weekly.  • Created user interface application based on Core Java, Java/j2ee, JSP, Servlet, and AngularJS, HTML5, CSS.  • Used Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring IOC, Spring Transaction and Oracle to create Club Systems Components.  • Created Web Service based on RESTful architecture which returns JSON.  • Worked to tune the performance of the application.  • Wrote PL/SQL query for fetching data from Oracle database and wrote Stored Procedure.  • Also created Database tables, triggers, index, functions.  • Worked on Mongo DB and wrote code which finds, update, save and insert data to Mongo DB.  • Worked under Agile Methodology.  • Involved in executing some regular releases of the project.  • Created web app on Spring Boot for internal use.    Environment: Unix, WebSphere Application 7.0. Mongo DB, Java 6.0, Hibernate, Spring 4.0, AngularJS, JSP, JMS, XML, Web Services (SOAP and REST based), Oracle 11g, JUnit, Log4j, SOAP UI, Eclipse, Git, Maven, Tomcat8. Java/J2EE Developer Lloyds Bank February 2016 to July 2016 Description:  This is an intranet application developed for the bank employees to capture customer information, initiate money-transfers. As per government regulations this project implemented KYC (Know Your Customer) and AML (Anti-Money Laundering) processes. AML was implemented as a nightly process to filter suspicious transactions. AML also had an admin login for AML specialist to trigger checks. The application also had weekly reports for managers and business users.    Responsibilities:  • Provided technical guidance to business analysts, gather the requirements and convert them into technical specifications/artifacts.  • Designed the application using MVC, Factory, Data Access Object(DAO) and Session Facade Design Patterns.  • Responsible for creating reports using BIP Reports using Oracle 11g version, SQL server Designed, and integrated with necessary stored procedures in DB2.  • Set up the application in Maven for building and used Subversion as version control.  • Used J2EE design patterns like Singleton.  • Developed business layer using Spring, Hibernate, JMS.  • Created graphical user interfaces (GUIs) front-end using JSP, JSF, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML.  • Created JSF components for presentation layer.  • Creation of technical specifications, coding, unit and system integration testing for the enhancements and conducted reviews with users.  • Implemented web designed interfaces web interfaces using HTML, JSP, Servlets, AJAX, Java script, and CSS.  • JUnit Testing Framework for Unit Level Testing.  • Developed Ant scripts to build and deploy the application onto Web logic Application Server and ran UNIX shell scripts and implemented auto deployment process.  • Log 4j was used to log both User Interface and Domain Level messages and also worked with SQL and Stored procedure in the development of the application.  • Developed the application using Spring MVC Framework by implementing controller and backend service classes.  • Consumed Web Services by implementing Spring's REST support to make the development of RESTful Web services. Full Stack Java Developer ADP - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN January 2013 to January 2016 Environment: Java/J2EE, Hibernate, Spring, JMS, XML, Web Services (SOAP and REST based), MySQL, JUnit, Log4j, SOAP UI, Eclipse, Git, Maven, Tomcat8.  Full Stack Java Developer  ADP - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN  January 2013 to January 2016  Description:  It is a web based application and will serve the need of accounting section to process the Pay Roll, here the user can configure the formulas known as rules and once it is configured it can be used to process any number of employees with less time. The product is divided into many modules based on its functionality like Employee Administration, Payroll configuration etc. and it has a dedicated module for generating the reports like Pay Slip and Pay Sheet etc.    Responsibilities:  • EBPM has been developed using Java/J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, RESTful web services and Ajax technologies with Oracle as backend and deployed on WebSphere server. EBPM is used extensively by AMEX users to raise access requests for different services.  • Implemented Java/J2EE, MVC design patterns using Spring, Hibernate and Rest Ful Web services.  • Built few RESTful APIs using Spring, Jackson and JSON.  • Built RESTful APIs using Spring. Use Jackson for generating JSON messages. Use JAX-B transformation for XML message processing.  • Built the server module with Spring MVC, Spring Data and Spring security technologies.  • Created web application prototype using HTML5, CSS, JavaScript (Angular JS) and AJAX.  • Build REST web service by building NodeJS Server in the back-end to handle requests sent from the front-end jQuery Ajax calls.  • Connected to Oracle stored procedures using Spring JDBC framework.  • Connected the Oracle to store user cache and log information using Spring and Hibernate.  • Developed Business logic using JavaBeans, Servlets, and Collections.  • Developed logics using Multithreading, collections and OOPs concepts.  • Developed a GUI to help to read the logs generated by the scripts, the logs were saved in Oracle.  • Using CA(Computer Associates) Siteminder and LDAP(Light Weight Directory Access Protocol) security services to authenticate and authorize user roles.  • Good experience on build and deployment scripts using Maven.  • Support to users during User Acceptance Testing.  • Mentored the development team on using best practices for using GitHub.    Environment: Java/J2EE, Multithreading, Collections, spring 3.X, Restful Web services, Hibernate 3.3, Oracle, HTML5, AJAX, CSS, JavaScript, Angular JS, Node JS, Maven, Web Sphere, JUnit and GitHub. Java UI Developer QIC - Bangalore, Karnataka July 2011 to December 2012 Description:  Soham Geni is a flexible suite of insurance software solution and dedicated for supporting the needs of insurance underwriters, agents and brokers in General Insurance. It covers the complete lifecycle of the business, including client management, underwriting, claims, reinsurance, accounting and management information and caters for a very wide range of classes.  The product is divided into several modules depending on the functionality like Intermediary Management Module, New Business Module, Underwriting module etc. There is a dedicate module for generating the Reports and it can be exported into many formats like PDF, html, doc and excel format.    Responsibilities:  • Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS.  • Developed non-functional HTML, CSS pages from the mock ups and involved in UI review with UI architect and Business Units.  • Developed GUI using JavaScript, HTML, DOM, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JQuery in ongoing projects.  • Improved user experience by designing and creating new web components and features  • Used JavaScript and JQuery for validating the input given to the user interface.  • Involved in implementing JQuery for providing interactive user interfaces.  • Used Spring MVC on the web layer and business delegate and DAO on the business layer.  • Implementation of Web Designs based on CSS3, HTML5, and Bootstrap Front-End Framework.  • Developed DAO for communicating with the database. Used Hibernate DAO support for performing queries. And handled transactions using spring annotations.  • Developed the spring AOP programming to configure logging for the application  • Developed business modules using Hibernate & Spring frame work technologies  • Developed the application using Struts Framework which is based on the MVC design pattern.  • Involved in intense User Interface (UI) operations and client side validations using AJAX toolkit.  • Developed internal application using Angular JS and Node JS connecting to Oracle on the backend.  • Design and development of many PL/SQL batches using JAVA with connectivity to Oracle for data maintenance and handling.  • Debugging HTML, CSS and JavaScript issues with respect to the assigned defects and integrating the solution into JSP framework.  • Implemented the validation, error handling, and caching framework with Oracle Coherence cache  • Used Subversion (SVN) for software version control.  • Involved in JUnit Testing of various modules by generating the Test Cases.  • Developed AJAX scripting to process server side JSP scripting.  • Used the Eclipse as IDE, configured and deployed the application onto WebLogic application server using Maven build scripts to automate the build and deployment process.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JQuery, AJAX, Node JS, Angular JS, Spring, Hibernate, Oracle, CRUD, PL/ SQL, JDBC, REST, Eclipse, WebLogic, Subversion (SVN), Junit, JSP, Servlet and Maven. Software Developer Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN June 2010 to May 2011 Description: Designing and Developing the Applications and implementing them on the HMI screen for industrial usages as per the Customer requirements. Mostly we worked for the clients related to Pharma where the machineries run through HMI systems. Using front end scripting languages and style sheets techniques, we designed and developed the screen views for the end users and implemented the working behavior using Java/C/C++ languages based on the client requirement.    Responsibilities:  • Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS.  • Developed non-functional HTML, CSS pages from the mock ups and involved in UI review with UI architect and Business Units.  • Developed GUI using JavaScript, HTML, DOM, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JQuery in ongoing projects.  • Improved user experience by designing and creating new web components and features  • Used JavaScript and JQuery for validating the input given to the user interface.  • Involved in implementing JQuery for providing interactive user interfaces.  • Used Spring MVC on the web layer and business delegate and DAO on the business layer.  • Implemented Presentation layer using JSP, Servlets and HTML.  • Implementation of Web Design based on CSS, HTML, and Bootstrap Front-End Framework.  • Developed JavaScript behavior code for user interaction.  • Created database program in SQL server to manipulate data accumulated by internet transactions.  • Wrote Servlets class to generate dynamic HTML pages.  • Developed Servlets and back-end Java classes using Web Sphere application server.  • Design and develop the processes using multithreading to make it asynchronous.  • Follow the best practices in coding like removing unnecessary casting, using generics in Hash Map, caching, Collections like sort, comparator, list, set and Design patterns.  • Confirmed the performance improvement by measuring the processes again and feedbacks from the user.  • Developed an API to write XML documents from a database.  • Performed usability testing for the application using JUnit Test.  • Maintenance of a Java GUI application using JFC/Swing.  • Created complex SQL and used JDBC connectivity to access the database.  • Involved in the design and coding of the data capture templates, presentation and component templates.  • Part of the team that designed, customized and implemented metadata search and database synchronization.  • Used Oracle as Database and used Toad for queries execution and Involved in writing SQL scripts, PL SQL code for procedures and functions.  Environment: Java, Web Sphere 3.5, EJB, Servlets, JavaScript, JDBC, SQL, JUnit, Eclipse IDE and Apache Tomcat 6, ANT. Education Bachelor's