Java developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Java developer Newark, DE 3+ years of IT experience in Java/ Java EE based application design, development and maintenance using Object Oriented Programming, Java, J2EETechnologies, Web Technologies for Enterprise Applications.  • Experienced in entire Software Development Life Cycle(SDLC) including Analysis, Design, Programming, Building, Testing, Debugging, Maintenance and Enhancements of multi-tier, database driven J2EE applications.  • Extensive experience in Design and Development of Web based applications, Enterprise applications using JAVA, JSP, Servlets, Jdbc, Spring Frame work, Hibernate, Webservices (SOAP and Restful), Html, CSS etc.  • Hands on Experience in testing web services for API testing (SOAP, REST) using SOAP UI Tool.  • Sound knowledge on JUnit, TestNG framework for Unit and Functional testing, Maven and ANT for Project building, Jenkins for Continuous Integration.  • Thorough understanding of in Defect Management tools like Quality Center and JIRA.  • Experience in working withSQL, JDBC with Oracle.  • Good Working experience in using different modules like Spring Core, Spring MVC.  • Excellent analytical, problem solving capabilities and good communication skills. Ability to quickly adapt to new environments, frameworks and learn new technologies.  • Good Knowledge of Agile Methodologies and SCRUM processes Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java developer Exa Data May 2017 to December 2018 May 2017 - Dec 2018  Project: Shopping Cart Design  Description: Exa DataInc provides information technology services and professional services. This project is an ecommerce application intended to develop, support, maintenance and implementation of a complex module. This project involves shopping cart design, checkout process flow and Account creation, Profile page reports. When the user selects an item, and add it to my cart that is ready to be placed in the Shopping Cart. Once the item is selected and added to the cart various steps occur including    item validations, generate Quote, perform Payment Authorization, perform Order Real Time Provisioning for    applicable items and finally submitting the order.    Role: Java developer  Responsibilities:  • Participated in gathering and understanding the dealer's/suppliers/vendors/service center's requirements.    • Design Use Cases, Sequence, ER-Diagrams and Class diagrams using Rational Rose    • Used Hibernate for connecting to the database and mapping the entities by using Hibernate Annotations and written HQL Queries.  Involved in configuring and integrating JSF, Spring and Hibernate frameworks with caching techniques.    • Implemented SOA architecture with Web Services using REST, WSDL, JSON and XML.    • Developed GUI based application using Swings and Java Applets.  • Involved in preparing design documents, developing use cases, identifying classes and Objects, drawing class diagrams, sequence diagrams using RationalRose and identifying the designpatterns, frameworks to be used during implementation.  Envirnonment: Java, J2EE, JDK1.6, Ajax, Spring Frame Work, Hibernate 3.0, JMS WSDL, REST, Postman, XML, HTML, Java developer Tech Mahendra April 2012 to November 2013 Apr 2012 - Nov 2013  Project: Online Account Opening (OAO) Administration.  Description: A new Online Account Opening (OAO) application to open new Deposit Accounts (Checking, Saving, Money Market, CD's) is being developed. Visitors to SBI.com will navigate to the OAO application after selecting an account they are interested in opening. The purpose of this document is to detail the requirements for the new Online Account Opening (OAO) portal Administration tool, which will be used internally to maintain applications customers opening accounts online created, but did not successfully submit to host, view application details, create and maintain Campaigns and provide reports.  Role: Java developer  Responsibilities:  • Estimation, planning for various releases.  • Write backend java code and front end code for the for application being developed based on the requirement  • Changing the queries and stored procedures based on the requirement.  • Writing JUnit test cases and checking for code coverage using Clover tool.  • Fixing the bugs raised.  • Deploying applications in different environments.  • Scheduling training sessions for the fresher who joined our project.  • Attending daily status call from onsite.    Environment  HardwareWindows Workstations  Operating SystemWindows XP/ vista/ 7  Languages Java  Special SoftwareSpring Tool Suite, HP Quality Centre, Microsoft SQL Server, Eclipse, JIRA, Soap UI and Jenkins Education MS Information Systems Wilmington University 2014 to 2016 BS in Electronics and Communication Engineering JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana 2008 to 2012 Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Core Java, Javascript, MVC, Rest, Angular, Java J2Ee, JEE, Soap