Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java/J2EE Developer - Ohio Integrated Eligibility Systems Columbus, OH • A Java programmer with around 8 years of professional experience in design and development of financial, client-server, e-commerce, middle-ware, database and distributed software applications using JAVA.  • Experience in applications development and maintenance using Object Oriented software architecture, analysis, design, development & implementation of Enterprise Systems.  • Well experienced with Object Oriented Modelling / Technologies / Designing, RDBMS designing technologies.  • Extensive experience in J2EE features like Struts, Springs, Hibernate, Servlets, Java Server Pages, EJBs, and JMS.  • Proficient in Core Java, HTML, XHTML, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, JQuery, AngularJS, J2EE, Spring Framework, Web Services (SOAP and REST), JDBC, XML, EJB, JMS, BEA WebLogic, IBM WebSphere, UML, SQL, PL\SQL, Oracle.  • Experience working on various web servers like Apache Tomcat, Web Logic, IBM Web Sphere, IBM Web Sphere ESB (Enterprise Service Bus).  • Developed Single Page Applications using AngularJS, Node JS and Express JS. Good understanding of server-side CSS preprocessors, such as LESS and SASS. Experience with using web tools like Bower (package manager), Grunt and Gulp (Task automation).  • Expertise in Database design: entity relationship, logical/physical, process modeling, Case tools  • Hands on experience in working on XML Suite of technologies (XML, XSL, XSLT, DTD, XML Schema, SAX, DOM).  • Experience in using Maven and ANT scripts for building and deploying applications for error logging.  • Good Knowledge on Big Data technologies and used extensively SOLR Search.  • Good proficiency in using front-end &Middle-tier J2EE technologies with backend databases such as Oracle Server, My SQL Server, MS Access and also worked on NOSQL data base like Mongo DB, Cassandra to handle huge data.  • Experience in integration tools (Mule ESB, Apache CAMEL).  • Basic Knowledge High Availability Practices and deploying backup/restore infrastructure.  • Good experience in GIT to handle projects in a real time scenario.  • Developed real time message broadcast using Web sockets and Expression Engine for thousands of live viewers and a simple dashboard to send tweets or other prepared messages.  • Experience in coding Web Services with JAX-WS (SOAP) and JAX-RS (Restful).  • Strong experience in RDBMS technologies like SQL, Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions. Experience working with JMS, IBM MQ and KAFKA.  • Experience in Log4J, SLF4J for extensive logging, debugging and error tracing.  • Used AWS to deploy the projects on EC2 instances and create snapshots for the data that must be stored in AWS S3.  • Configured the Docker Containers and creating Docker files for different environments.  • Good experience in Apache Spark with SCALA.  • Used Jira, Stash, Confluence, Splunk, Git, Source tree to provide tier 1 support for developer and operations staff. Experience in microservices and spring boot.  • Experience in using Bamboo, Jenkins as a continuous integration and delivery tool that ties automated builds and tests.  • Good debugging skills - deep diving into technical issues, collaborating with cross-domain experts, handling clients with different priorities and mind sets, both onsite and remote.  • Excellent organizational, interpersonal and communicational skills. Comfortable working both independently and in a team environment. Fast learning, self-motivated, hard working. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Ohio Integrated Eligibility Systems - Columbus, OH February 2016 to Present Description:  The Accenture Citizen Self-Service Portal (ACSSP) is a secure, public-facing portal that uses a conversational style interview approach to collect data needed to assess a citizen's eligibility for benefits. The portal promotes self-sufficiency, enhances outreach, and provides a new channel for clients to interact with their caseworker in a secure environment.  The OIES is built on top of ACSSP for the citizens to apply for benefits.    Responsibilities:  • Coordinated with the business analyst team to gather the requirements.  • Involved in high level and low level design.  • Used Spring IoC to couple different layers of application such as web, business and DAO layers.  • Implemented User Interface in Model-View-Controller Architecture, which accomplishes a tight and neat co-ordination of Spring MVC, JSP, Servlets and JSTL.  • Extensively worked on Restful web services development.  • Developed domain objects and DAO classes using Spring JDBC.  • Developed the user interface using WebLogic portals and JSR168.  • Designed and developed data access layer using Data Access Object (DAO), Session Facade, Business Delegate and Singleton design patterns.  • Developed overlays, Tooltips, Accordion's, JavaScript functions using jQuery and its plugins.  • Configured hibernate to make use of second level caching to display the static lookup data from the database.  • Developed data access object and mapped tables and POJO using Hibernate into MySQL database.  • Performed CRUD operations like Update, Insert and Delete data in MongoDB.  • Used Java Message Service (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of information. Used RAD as IDE for the application development and integration of the frameworks.  • Designed and developed automation tool suite to automate different testing scenarios on the application using Selenium Web driver.  • Used IBM RTC as version control software to manage the source code and to keep track of changes to files which is fast and light weight system.  • Worked on Log4J to validate functionalities and Mockito framework JUnit for unit testing.  • Developed Unit testing framework driven by Test First methodology (TDD), to develop test cases for business layer and User Interface using mock objects.  • Performed JVM tuning to improve the performance of the application.  • Developed Web Services to consume services from Fed Hub Agency using SOAP and REST.  • Automated builds using Jenkins.  Environment: Java/ J2EE 1.8, RESTful Web Services, SOAP Web Services, SOAP UI, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring Batch, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Microservices, JDBC, JMS, JPA, Hibernate, Apache POI, Selenium Web driver, JUnit, Mockito, Log4J, JSP, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, AngularJS, Node.js, LESS, Bower, Grunt, Express JS, UML, Apache Tomcat 7.0.x, MySQL, MongoDB, Eclipse, Maven, GIT, Stash, JIRA. Sr. Java Developer Expedited CHIP Enrollment - Austin, TX February 2013 to January 2016 Description:  Maximus Inc. is an American for-profit privatizing company that plays a critical role in helping government achieve their goals by providing essential services to the most vulnerable citizens in the communities they serve. The company also provides business process services to government health and human services agencies in the United States. Enrollment broker (EB) is a Maximus internal application responsible for supporting both CHIP and MEDICAID programs for the state of Texas. Enrollment Broker Self Service Portal (EBSSP) is a public website for the users to enroll into CHIP and MEDICAID programs for the state of Texas. Maximus focuses on administering government-sponsored programs, such as Medicaid, the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP), health care reform, welfare-to-work, Medicare, child support enforcement, ACA and other government programs.    Responsibilities:  • Developed CHIP project using agile methodology in designing and developing.  • Created UML diagrams (use case, class, sequence & collaboration diagram) based on the business requirements.  • Manual Execution of Test Cases for Functional Testing, GUI Testing, Regression Testing, Smoke testing.  • Used java concepts like Collections, Generics, Exception handling, Concurrency to develop business logic.  • Used JMS as a replacement for HTTP as the underlying transport for SOAP communications between TIERS eligibility module and MAXIMUS CHIP module.  • Used Soap Web Services for consuming data from TIERS eligibility module and Restful web services (Jersey Implementation) for providing information to the public facing self-service portal.  • Used Java Executor framework for multithreading and quartz scheduler for writing batch jobs.  • Developed User interface in CHIP using Spring, Servlets, JSP's, JSTL and business driven reusable custom tag libraries for the application and used HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS and Node JS for creating a single page web applications.  • Used spring core container as the service layer, spring transaction management to manage transactions, spring Data Access/Integration layer for JMS and spring remote scheduling to invoke Jobs during development phase.  • Developed persistence layer in CHIP using IBatis and integrated it with spring.  • Worked on DTRules for the execution of Decision Table base enrollment rules.  • Used BMC Middleware management to monitor the queues.  • Analyzed, designed and implemented DAO pattern for accessing Oracle 11g database using connection pool. Also worked with NoSQL Cassandra database for storing highly scalable form data and populated the data using Kafka.  • Used Maven for building the project and later updated it to Gradle and used Groovy as a scripting language. Used Log4J as the logging framework.  • Used IntelliJ as IDE and deployed the into JBoss 6.3 Application Server. Also, used Maven build tool to achieve more functionality for build process.  • CI/CD methodologies were implemented using Jenkins. Written Jenkins pipeline template script in Groovy programming language for the automation of build and deployment process.  • Developed triggers and views and wrote complex queries and stored procedures using PL/SQL. Prepared unit test cases with JUnit, and Spring Test.  • Written efficient SQL and PLSQL scripts to correct the corrupted data in existing application.  • Developed PLSQL scripts for data conversion.  • Involved in the analysis and troubleshooting of issues which are tracked through JIRA. Involved with fixing the defects raised by the QA team.  • Used GitHub, with SourceTree, as Distributed version control system and branching for creating a new feature and making bug fixes.  • We have tested our application in the Docker container provided by the AWS ECS service.  Environment: Java/ J2EE 1.7, Spring, Hibernate, RESTful WebServices, JBoss 6.3, JSP, JSTL, HTML5, CSS, Node JS, AngularJS 1.5, 2.0, JSON, POJO, Hibernate, Oracle 11g, IntelliJ, Maven, Restful web services, SOAP, Jenkins, Groovy, JIRA, JUnit, JIRA, GitHub, Stash, SourceTree, Docker, AWS EC2, AWS ECS. Java Developer United Health Group - Eden Prairie, MN August 2011 to January 2013 Description:  Optum One enables health care providers to analyze data extracted from their electronic medical record (EMR) systems and enriched by claims data and act on those insights, using intuitive applications connected through a single platform. Advanced predictive models identify gaps in care, help users coordinate care, and compare the real-world efficacy and associated cost of possible treatments.    Responsibilities:  • Designed, coded, tested, debugged, and documented software, and enhanced existing components to ensure that software meets business needs.  • Involved in preparing the technical design documents using UML data model representation, Use case diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Class Diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Used Jira tools for release and iteration planning, scheduling and tracking that supports team's natural signaling.  • Actively Participate in the JAD (Joint Application Development) sessions and the Functional Design Sessions.  • Implemented Struts Framework along with JSP, Struts Tiles, and Struts Tag libraries to facilitate user interface design.  • Used Collections extensively to store, retrieve and manipulate objects in the business logic layer.  • Developed validations using Struts validation framework.  • Developed components of web services (JAX-WS, JAX-RPC) end to end, using different JAX-WS standards with clear understanding on WSDL.  • Used JAX-WS (SOAP) for producing web services and involved in writing programs to consume the web services using SOA with CXF framework  • Eclipse used as Java IDE to develop/create my code  • Developed interfaces and their implementation classes to communicate with the Mid-tier using JMS.  • Handled Transaction Management in Hibernate using provided data source with JNDI for Naming and directory services.  • Designing and implementing complex SOA solutions using the WebSphere suite of products, participating in systems analysis and gap analysis for building quality interfaces, analyzing and modifying existing programs, debugging programs, writing specifications, and developing and executing system testing.  • Created numerous test cases for unit testing of the code using JUnit testing framework.  Environment: JDK1.6, Spring MVC, jQuery, POJO, JSON, Spring ORM, Spring Batch, Spring JDBC, XML, XSLT, Web Services, WSDL, SOAP, JAX-WS, CXF, JMS, SAML, SSO, Maven, Jenkins, IntelliJ, Oracle11g, SVN., SOAP UI, HP ALM. Java Developer Indian Bank Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2010 to July 2011 Description:  Indian Bank is India's second-largest bank with total assets of about US$ 28.5 billion. It provides all kinds of finance needs from securities to auto finance, banking, corporate and retail.CMD Issue Collection Application was developed for Collection of Application money in respect of IPO/Bonds/Debt instruments by Capital Market Division (CMD) branch and other identified branches of Indian Bank Ltd. The software application facilitated data entry for generating various Reports.    Responsibilities:  • Developed Presentation Layer, Business Layer & Data Access Layers completely from end to end.  • Worked on client side with Development Team.  • Developed the presentation layer and content management framework using HTML and JavaScript.  • Worked with Configuration Files (Hibernate configuration).  • Used JQuery while writing JavaScript Functions.  • Written a web service using SOAP to provide data to online Bill history of consumer.  • Worked on Agile methodologies.  • Used Spring framework for dependency injection, transaction management.  • Used Spring MVC framework controllers for Controllers part of the MVC.  • Used Java Message Service (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of vital information, such as loan status report.  • Implemented Business Logic as per the requirement.  • Worked on JDBC batch updates.  • Developed Reports using XSQL and XSL.  • Deployed application on the Glass Fish Sever and configuring JPPF framework in the server for all High-End Process.  • Used No SQL for JBoss Caching and implemented various complex PL/SQL queries.  • Worked with testers in resolving defects in the application and was an integral part of the team.  • Interacted with Business Analysts to come up with better implementation designs for the application.  • Worked with the ISP Site Development to get any infrastructure related issues fixed.  • Implement the best practices and performance improvement / productivity plans.  Environment: Java, J2EE, JDBC, Servlets, JSP's, JMS, JBOSS, Glass Fish, HTML, Spring, Hibernate, JPPF, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS, XML, AJAX, XSL, XSQL, TOAD11, DBSOLO. Education Bachelor's Skills JAVA (8 years), JMS (8 years), SOAP (8 years), DATABASE (6 years), JSP (6 years), Java/ J2EE 1.8, RESTful Web Services, SOAP Web Services, SOAP UI, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring Batch, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Microservices, JDBC, JMS,JPA, Hibernate, Apache POI, Selenium Web driver, JUnit, Mockito, Log4J, JSP,HTML,CSS, Bootstrap, AngularJS, Node.js, LESS, Bower, Grunt, Express JS, UML, Apache Tomcat 7.0.x, MySQL, MongoDB, Eclipse, Maven, GIT, Stash, JIRA. (8 years), Java J2Ee, Spring, J2Ee, Rest, Hibernate Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Java, C, C++, SQL, AWS, CMS, Node Js.    J2EE Technologies JDK 1.5/1.6/1.7/1.8, JDBC 2.0/3.0/4.0, EJB 2.0/3.0, Servlets 2.3/2.4/2.5/.1, JSP 1.2/2.02.3, JSTL, JSF, JMS, JNDI, JAF, JTA, JCA, JAAS, JAXR, JAXP, RMI, Applets (Swing, AWT), JavaBeans, iBATIS 2.2, DMR, Easy Mock, Java Mail API, Java Persistence API.    I D Environments NetBeans, Eclipse, RAD and IntelliJ Idea.    Frameworks Spring 2.0/2.5/3.0/3.1, Hibernate 3.0 /3.2/4.0/5.0, Struts 1.x/2.0, ADF, Castor Framework, Top Link, Maverick, My Faces    Web Technologies XML, XSL, XSLT, SAX, Schema, XPath, DOM, HTML3/5, DHTML, XHTML, CSS3,WML, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, Node JS, Angular JS, Twitter Bootstrap, Word Press, GUI, iText, JBOSS SEAM, /Fuse, Adobe Flex, Apache POI, DTD.    Web Services SOAP, RESTful, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, WSDL, JAX-RPC, JAXB, Metro, SAAJ    Web/Application Servers BEA WebLogic 8.1/9.2/10g/11g/12c, IBM WebSphere 5.x/6.0/7.0/8.x,Apache TomcatAS 4.0/4.2/5.1/6.0/7.0, JBoss EAP 4.2/4.3/5.0/6.0, Glass Fish, Tomcat 4.0/5.x/6.x, Apache HTTP Server, Microsoft IIS.    Design Rational Rose, Dreamweaver and XML Spy.    Database environments SQL Server MySQL 5.0, Cassandra, Mongo DB, Oracle 9i, 10g, 11g, DB2.    Versioning Tools CVS, VSS, SVN, Clear Case, Subversion, Git, Git hub.    Build tools Ant, Maven.    Methodologies Agile, Scrum, Test Driven, Waterfall, Rational Unified Process, RAD.    Defect Tracking Tools & others Jira, Bugzilla, IBM Rational Clear Quest, Trac, putty, winSCP, Business Objects, Control M Scheduler, SiteMinder, Twilio, HP ALM.    Operating systems Windows (7, Vista, XP, 2000, 98, NT), UNIX