Java/J2EE/UI Developer (Full Stack Developer) <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE/UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> (Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span>) Java/J2EE/UI Developer (Full Stack Developer) - BlackRock, Inc Newark, DE • Over 7 years of Software development experience with full project lifecycle development using Java and J2EE technologies including 4 years of UI development experience.  • Extensive experience developing applications using Agile methodologies with Test Driven Development (TDD), SCRUM.  • Proficient with Web Page Development and developed front-end UI using AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, EXT-JS, JSP with Custom Tag Libraries, Bootstrap, Canvas, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX.  • Extensive experience in using various design patterns such as MVC, Singleton, Session Facade, DAO, DTO, and Business Delegate in the development of Multi-Tier distributed Enterprise Applications.  • Experience in working with various MVC architecture development such as JSF, Struts MVC and Spring MVC, FileNet.  • Strong working experience using DTD and XML Schemas and XML related technologies like XSL/XSLT/SAX/DOM/XPATH.  • Experience in Web Services Technologies like SOAP with WSDL and RESTful with Jersey, Spring, Apache CXF and Node-JS and implemented SOA architecture with web services.  • Experience in Developing Applications Using Object Relational Mapping (ORM) Technologies such as JPA, Hibernate, Mybatis and Spring JPA.  • In-depth knowledge and experience in UI using JavaScript, HTML5, DHTML, CSS3, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, Bootstrap and AngularJS 1.4.x.  • Experience in Design, Development and Implementation of multi-tier thin/thick client web based applications using Object Oriented Methodologies.  • Extensive knowledge in working with Java/JEE technologies such as Java, XML, JavaScript, JQuery JSP, EJB, JDBC, Struts, Servlets, JMS, Mojarra JSF, My Faces, JPA, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, Spring and Hibernate.  • Hands on experience in Node.JS backend, using express to build the high concurrency, async web server.  • Proficient in RDBMS concepts and worked with MySQL, Sybase, Oracle 11g and DB2.  • Proficient in writing java unit test cases using Junit and TestNG and configuring project dependencies using Maven.  • Proficient in SQL, PL/SQL developed Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions and Packages besides writing DDL, DML and Transaction queries with development tools like TOAD and Rapid SQL.  • Experience in working with NoSQL, Mongo DB for handling huge amount of data.  • Experience in using different tools like Eclipse, TOAD, Oracle SQL developer, Mysql workbench etc.,  • Expertise in web application development using HTML, CSS, Java Script, JQuery, EXTJS, and JSP.  • Hands on experience in using JUnit, Log4J, spring test with Groovy for debugging and testing the applications.  • Strong Hands on Experience in configuring JMS Queues and Topics using IBM MQ Series and ActiveMQ for communication between middleware components.  • Hands on experience with various Application Servers and Web Servers including Web Sphere, Web logic, JBoss, Tomcat server with wide variety of development tools like Eclipse, IBM RAD / RSA, Eclipse, My Eclipse, Net Beans and IntelliJ.  • Expertise knowledge in building applications using Rational Unified Process (RUP) , UML and OOAD.  • Experienced in implementing EnterpriseApplications with full life cycle of software development.  • Experience in using Log4J, Version Control using SVN, Git, TFS, Clear Case and CVS.  • Experienced in setting up Jenkins for continuous integration and continuous builds with Maven, Gradle and ANT.  • Worked on different OS UNIX (Sun Solaris, AIX), Linux, Windows XP, Windows 2K. Good team player with ability to solve problems, organize and prioritize multiple tasks.  • Experienced in working with applications deployed to AWS cloud and hands on experience using AWS management console and SDK to interact with AWS services.  • Very much comfortable in analyzing, debugging, troubleshooting and solving problems and issues in application.  • Highly motivated and a self-starter with effective communication and organizational skills, combined with attention to detail and business process improvements. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java/J2EE/UI Developer (Full Stack Developer) BlackRock, Inc - Wilmington, DE October 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the application in sprints using Agile Scrum methodology and participated in weekly status meetings and daily scrums.  • Designed and developed web pages using HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, Ajax, Bootstrap and JSP based on the W3C standards.  • Widely used AngularJS UI-bootstrap components like calendar picker, time picker, directives, select2, model pop-ups, ng-grid, router Provider's, progress bar, ng-Idle, ng-Upload.  • Refactored existing mobile web code with AngularJS to improve maintainability and make the web application more modular.  • Created Single Page Application with loading multiple views using route services and adding more user experience to make it more dynamic by using AngularJS framework.  • Built Single page application (SPA) using AngularJS as per the requirement and implemented all the front-end components using Spring MVC.  • Involved in integrating Spring Framework with Struts Framework.  • Developed Action forms, Action classes using Struts framework to handle user requests.  • Involved in the design and development phases of Rational Unified Process (RUP).  • Implemented AWS solutions using E2C, S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto-scaling groups.  • Maintaining the user accounts (IAM), RDS, Route 53, SES and SNS services in the AWS cloud.  • Server migration using cloud services like AWS from physical to cloud environment.  • Used AngularJS (grid) for Grid data displays all over the application and also developed Light-box plugins using AngularJS.  • Used AngularJS directives to reduce the usage of redundant code and to create pie-charts, bar-graphs and also familiar in using data-binding and dependency-injection concepts in AngularJS.  • Built RESTful Node.js and Express API to communicate with AngularJS front-end for faster data transfer.  • Developed REST API for assessment indicators module and token based authentication for REST services using Spring Security.  • Worked on Asset Management Module in order to develop services using Restful Web services and collaborated on design spec reviews together with Business Analysts.  • Experience in Cross browser compatibility testing and intellectual challenges in User Experience with Bootstrap.  • Involved in defining & designing the layers, components of the project using OOAD methodologies and standard J2EE patterns and guidelines.  • Implemented Spring services and Spring DAO's for controller interactions to operate on data and developed asynchronous message listeners using Spring JMS template.  • Designed and developed Business components and Integrated with Spring framework and also developed various reusable Helper and Utility classes, which are used across all the modules of the application.  • Developed application service components and configured beans using Spring IOC, creation of Hibernate mapping files and generation of database schema.  • Developed Java Web applications (API) called by Java batch apps using RESTful web-services to provide response in JSON format.  • Responsible for deployment of applications and applying FileNet Patches. Worked with Database team for maintenance of all FileNet Related databases.  • Reverse Engineered using Hibernate plug-in for RAD to generate Hibernate configuration, POJO classes, DAO classes and wrote finder methods using Hibernate Query Language (HQL) for dynamic searches.  • Experience in installation, configuration and deployment of J2EE components on IBM WebSphere Application Server using Eclipse IDE.  • Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, indexes, sharding, replication, schema design.  • Created collections and performed CRUD operations on Mongodb using Node Mongoose and used mongoRepository and Spring MongoTemplate for persistence.  • Analyzed changes in online transactional processing, business processes, and modifications, to improve quality of applications and meet additional requirements through MongoDB.  • Built a highly scalable, low-latency Node-JS API Gateway to interact with MongoDB database with JSON.  • Involved in writing Maven scripts for automated deployment of the application and managed GitHub Projects and migrated from SVN to GitHub with merge and version.  • Worked on creating Java web services using SOAP, implemented the SOAP 1.2 standards.  • Wrote Technical design document with the class, sequence, and activity diagrams in each use case and involved in writing Spring MVC rest controllers for UI interactions and server side validations.  • Involved in working with the QA to assist in writing test code and debugging the defects in the application    Environment: Java 1.7, Angular-JS, Spring, JSP, Maven, JUnit, Agile Scrum, IBM WebSphere Application Server, RESTful Webservices, HTML5, CSS, TDD, JPA, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Apache CXF, Node-JS, Hibernate, JMS, Mongodb, Eclipse, Git, Core-IOC, AOP, Log4J, AWS. Java/J2EE/UI Developer Metropolitan Transportation Authority - New York, NY December 2015 to September 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases of the Software development life cycle (SDLC) using Agile Methodology, designed use case diagrams, class diagrams, and sequence diagrams as a part of Design Phase.  • Involved in the design and development phases of Rational Unified Process (RUP).  • Created web services and desktop applications to access and display data needed by support teams using Ajax, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.JS, CSS and HTML.  • Implemented AngularJS Factories and Controllers to manipulate and view employee task data and used Custom AngularJS Filters to provide better search experience.  • Implemented AngularJS directives to reduce the usage of redundant code, to create pie-charts, bar-graphs and for validation purposes.  • Implemented Java web services based on SOA architecture with SOAP and WSDL.  • Implemented Struts Framework for configuration of action mappings and presentation logic in JSPs, Servlets.  • Utilized AngularJS framework to bind HTML template (views) to JavaScript object (models) and created custom Angular directives using .module and .directive.  • Implemented AngularJS ui-router to simulate a multiple layout web application reducing repetitive code and promoting quality.  • Implemented and maintained the monitoring and alerting of production and corporate servers/storage using AWS Cloud Watch.  • Responsible for maintaining and expanding AWS (Cloud Services) infrastructure using AWS Stack especially worked with database setup and maintenance on AWS EC2.  • Expertise in implementing the MVC architecture in backend applications using Node.js along with ExpressJS.  • Worked on Restful webservices using Node.js with ExpressJS and implemented mock services in Node.js with help of modules using Node.js server.  • Used various FileNet 's Content and Process APIs for the web application along with Servlets, JSPs, and AJAX to access Object store, query queues and roster to retrieve user and application related data  • Used Spring which is an open source MVC framework for creating elegant, modern java web applications.  • Used Node package manager(npm) for managing the Node.js modules like Watchify, Babilify, Browserify, Http-Fetch etc. and package.json for managing the application required module dependencies.  • Implemented CORS (Cross Origin Resource Sharing) using Node JS and developed REST services using Node and Express, Mongoose modules.  • Developed Apache Camel middleware routes, JMS endpoints, Spring service endpoints and used Camel freemarker to customize REST responses.  • Developed Business Rule Engine using Java, Multithreading, Message Queuing and consuming Restful web service.  • Responsible for using JMS Queues and JMS Topics for one-to-one and one-to-many communication in the application.  • Extensively worked on MQ Series using point-point, publisher/subscriber-messaging domains to exchange information through Messages for implementing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  • Involved in implementing Spring DAO layer to access the database using Spring data and Mybatis.  • Backend application layer is implemented using Spring and implemented Maven Script to create JAR, WAR, EAR& dependency JARS and deployed the entire project onto the Weblogic Application Server environment.  • Implemented Spring Model View Controller (MVC) Architecture and coded Java Beans (as the model), Java Swing.  • Worked on Spring application framework features IOC container and AOP and integrated Spring with Mongodb and established data mappings.  • Created Hibernate OGM mappings and defined persistence classes to persist the data into Mongodb Database.  • Worked on advanced Hibernate associations with multiple levels of Caching and lazy loading.  • Developed stored procedures to apply business logic to the database. ANT Script is used for the application building and Log4J for debugging.  • Used SVN for version control and used Eclipse as the IDE for developing the application, Used Rational Clear Quest for defect fixing.    Environment: Java 1.6, J2EE, PL/SQL, AngularJS, Node.js, ExpressJS, Bootstrap, CSS, HTML5, Spring, JMS, Apache CXF, MQ Series, Log4J, MAVEN, SVN, Eclipse IDE, Weblogic Application server, Rational Clear Quest, Mongodb, Apache Camel. Java Developer State Of MN August 2013 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed front end using Struts framework, business components using Struts, implemented Struts/ Tiles based framework to present the data to the user and created the web UI using Struts, JSP, Servlets and Custom tags.  • Deployment of Application in the JBoss Server environment using ANT tool using Struts architecture with the JSP Client.  • Configured Struts Dyna Action Forms, Message Resources, Action Messages, Action Errors, Validation.xml, and Validator-rules.xml.  • Used OOAD Technology classes are designed in UML with the help of Rational Rose tool.  • Used Tiles framework with struts to reduce the redundancy between JSP pages and used struts for implementing business model logic.  • Used Struts which is an open source MVC framework for creating elegant, modern java web applications.  • Coded different action classes in struts responsible for maintaining deployment descriptors like struts-config.xml and web.xml for global forwards, error forwards & action forwards.  • Designed and developed the project using Struts MVC design pattern and used Struts-Validator frame-work for all front-end Validations for all the form entries.  • Developed Use case, Class diagrams and Sequence diagrams for the modules using UML and Rational Unified Processing (RUP)  • Developed various REST controllers for different HTTP methods to serve the data in JSON for the UI and created Exception handlers to send Http codes with various Failure responses with Spring REST.  • Deployed and managed a private puppet infrastructure in AWS to deploy applications.  • Developed Spring and Hibernate ORM mappings to perform various association mappings to the database tables.  • Migrated test and use cases for applications to AWS cloud with public and private IP ranges to accelerate development productivity by decreasing test-run times.  • Wrote Hibernate criteria and Named queries for the data retrievals and performed second level caching in hibernate  • Wrote queries in Oracle10g Spatial in developing GIS based application.  • Worked on database interaction layer for insertions, updates and retrieval operations of data from Oracle10g database by writing stored procedures and complex packages extensively using PL/SQL and shell programs.  • Implemented caching techniques, wrote POJO classes for storing data and DAO's to retrieve the data and did other database configurations using Hibernate.  • Responsible for development of the application using Spring MVC framework, Java Web Services (REST) as Business layer, SQL and Hibernate ORM tool in the data access layer.  • Developed SOAP based Web Services for Integrating with the Enterprise Information System Tier.  • Designed and developed Caching and Logging service using Singleton pattern, Log4j.  • Deployed code in development environment to test and made patches in testing environment for testers to test it using IBM WebSphere server.  • Involved in gathering business requirements, analyzing the project and creating use Cases and Class Diagrams.  • Worked Gradle build scripts to compile Java classes and create jar, performed unit testing and package them into ear files and SVN as version control.  • Coordinated work with DB team, QA team, Business Analysts and Client Reps to complete the client requirements efficiently.  • Created sequence diagrams, collaboration diagrams, class diagrams, usecases and activity diagrams using Rational Rose for the Configuration, Cache & logging Services.    Environment: Java, Agile Scrum, Hibernate, Struts, Eclipse, JSP, XML, MVC, POJO, ANT, AJAX, JSON, Oracle SQL, IBM WebSphere App server. Java/J2EE Developer American Telephone and Telegraph Company - Middletown, NJ February 2013 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Designed and development applications using Rational Unified Process (RUP), UML and OOAD.  • Created Use cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Developed CSS styles to maintain the uniformity of all the screens throughout the application and positioning of screen objects.  • Involved in writing JSF Backing Beans for controlling the UI and writing custom components and validations.  • Developed user management screens using JSF framework, and DAO classes using Hibernate framework for persistence management and involved in integrating the frameworks for the project.  • Developed pages using JSF features like converters, validators, action Listeners, custom components, etc. and created conditional logics in pages using JSF tags and JSTL.  • Developed UI for Customer Service Modules and Reports using JSF, Prime Faces, Apache My Faces Components, Ajax4JSF framework (Ajax).  • Implemented J2EE design patterns such as Session Facade, Factory, DAO, DTO and MVC and configured JDBC, LDAP Security in the application server.  • Implemented various J2EE Design patterns like Singleton, Service Locator, Business Delegate and Transfer Object.  • Used Java, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JSTL while enhancing the functionality and responsible for creating database tables on Oracle DB.  • Developed Messaging frame work for Asynchronous service using JMS.  • Responsible for coding Oracle SQL Statements, Stored procedures, functions and triggers for back end communication using JDBC.  • Used log4j for tracking errors and debugging the code. Developed Soap based web services using Jax-ws.  • Developed the ANT deployment scripts for deploying application on to Apache Tomcat server and SVN as version/source control.  • Eclipse is used for development as IDE and involved in Quality Control Activities such as defect tracking, fixing using JIRA.  • Used JUnit for unit testing and repeatable tests for the application and wrote Junit test classes for the services and prepared documentation.  • Provided technical guidance to business analysts, gather the requirements and convert them into technical specifications/artifacts.    Environment: Java 1.5, JSF, Hibernate, JDBC, Eclipse, JSP, XML, MVC, POJO, log4j, Soap, JIRA, JMS, ANT, SVN, Apache Tomcat, Oracle SQL. Java Developer Aven Apps Technologies June 2011 to December 2012 Responsibilities:  • Developing business solutions by creating new and modifying existing software applications.  • Involved in coding along with high and low level designing and documenting.  • Doing coding based on MVC architecture using core Java- java.util.*, Collections, Hashmaps, Multithreading,  • strings, Linear Data structures like arrays & Lists and Heap Trees etc, J2EE tools and Swings along with all  • OOP's concepts and security features.  • Maintenance of the code quality and adherence to the coding standards.  • Used HTML, Servlets for front end design and integrating Database Layer.  • Developed Rest web applications using HTML and strut's action framework.  • Involved in deployment of web applications on web logic server.  • Solid organizational skills and focus on accuracy and attention to detail  • Work and co-ordinate with the team for application availability, reliability and stability.    Environment: Java 1.6/1.7, JEE 5/6, JDBC 4.0, Servlets 3.0, JSP 2.2, XML 2.x, Web services 1.3, REST, HTML, SQL, Web logic 10.3.2, Struts 2.0.x/2.1.x Java/J2EE Developer Kay Technologies May 2010 to June 2011 PL/SQL Programmer  Responsibilities:  • Project leader for the SICE development  • Analysis, Design, Development and maintenance of institutional applications  • Develop the SICE (system for management the academic life of the students) a web J2EE system using an MVC design pattern.  • Manage the full development life cycle. Including getting requirements, analysis, design, and development and testing.  • PL/SQL Developer, Develop the oracle-stored procedures for the SICE application.  • UML Designer, Designs the UML diagrams necessaries for the development process.  • Develop the java/J2EE code for the SICE.  • Develop JavaScript functions for validating user inputs on the web pages (JSP).  • Provided extensive technical support  • Develop an application for Banco Azteca using mainly JSP and oracle database  • Analysis, Design, Development and Maintenance of institutional applications  • Object Oriented Programming and Structured Programming professor    Environment: Java/J2ee, Oracle, JSP, Struts, Spring, HTML, CSS, jQuery, PL/SQL, Oracle Database Education Bachelor of Engineering in Technology JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills JAVA (7 years), STRUTS (6 years), JSP (6 years), WEB SERVICES (6 years), SQL (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages Java, SQL, PL/SQL  J2EE Technologies JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JNDI, JSTL, JSF, Web Services.  UI Technologies HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, AngularJS, EXT-JS, XML.  Frameworks Spring, Struts, Hibernate, Junit, Log4J, Node-JS  Development Tools (IDEs) Eclipse, MyEclipse, RAD, WSAD and NetBeans, IntelliJ.  Web/Application Servers Tomcat, WebLogic, WebSphere, JBoss Wildfly, Glassfish, RunJetty.  Databases Oracle 11g, MS SQL Server, MySQL, DB2, MongoDB.  Build Tools Maven, Gradle, ANT, Jenkins.  Version Control CVS, SVN, Git, TFS and Rational Clear Case.  OS/Cloud Windows, UNIX, Linux, AWS