Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Transamerica CA • Over 7+ years of extensive experience in Java and JEE technologies like Object Oriented Technologies, UML, Software Development Life Cycle process, which includes translation of requirements into functional and technical specifications, Designing, Developing, Testing Implementation & Post Production support using development methodologies like Waterfall, Agile/Scrum, TDD.    • Hands on experience in JAVA, JEE, JSP, Servlets, REST Web Services, Hibernate, Spring, Struts, JavaScript and AJAX technologies in design, coding, performance tuning, testing, maintenance and support of software applications.  • Expertise in developing and implementing Web applications using Java/J2EE Technologies including JSP Custom Tags Libraries, XML, Networking, Threads, IO, Servlets, JNDI, JDBC, Struts, JMS, EJB 3.0/2.x, Java Beans, JAXB, Spring, Hibernate and SOAP/REST web services.  • Experienced in designing the Front end pages using scripting languages like HTML, DHTML, CSS, Java script, JQuery, JSF, AJAX, Node JS, Angular JS, BOOTSTRAP.  • Extensive experience of Java & J2EE Design Patterns like MVC, Singleton, Session Facade, Factory, Producer Consumer, DAO, DTO, Business Delegate, Factory, Abstract Factory, Service Locator  • In depth knowledge on core java concepts such as OOPS, Collections, Threading, generics, Exception handling, Multi-Threading, Execution services, concurrent utilities, File IO, Garbage Collection and Serialization  • Possess good experience in designing and developing SOA based interface and web services (SOAP, WSDL, UDDI) using Apache Axis2 and RESTful web services in java with JAX-RS reference implementation Jersey.  • Good Knowledge and experience working with applications developed using Object Relational Mapping frameworks like Hibernate and MVC frameworks like Struts and Spring and its subsidiary modules such as Spring MVC, Spring, and Spring AOP.  • Experience implementing Enterprise Java Bean (EJB) technology as a middle layer for communication with database servers.  • Good knowledge of NoSQL and MongoDB. Strong Experience on writing SQL Queries, PL/SQL, JPA that includes Procedures, functions, triggers, cursors and packages.  • Experience with ORM mapping tools like Hibernate, which implements Java Persistence API (JPA).  • Experience in working with application servers like IBM Web Sphere, Web Logic, JBOSS, and Apache Tomcat. Hands on experience in configuring and using Maven and Ant build tools.  • Expert in using version control tools such as such as SVN, CVS and GIT.  • Experienced in writing and implementing unit test cases using Junit, Easy mock and Mockito.  • Strong experience on various development environments (IDE Tools) like Eclipse, IRAD, and My Eclipse. Good experience in unit testing, Integration testing and User Acceptance testing using JUNIT.  • Experience in writing developer test cases, preparing Scope & traceability Matrix.  • Experience in using Check styles & Find Bugs to write code efficiently that ease maintenance and reduces code reviews and executing test coverage using EMMA tool. Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Transamerica - Harrison, NY April 2016 to Present Project: Transfers and Rebalance  Provide the ability to request fund transfers and rebalance transactions by specific source or by source group. This is available for one time and recurring fund transfers, one time and auto rebalance transactions. The transactions are designed to happen at account level instead of portfolio level for some specific clients to make rebalance to happen way faster than presently happening on the platform. This project specifically aimed at writing services to assign positions or assets at account level and their associated strategies.  Responsibilities:  • Developed the GUIs using HTML, CSS, JSP and Angular JS framework Components.  • Extensively worked on developing UI components using Angular JS and JSON to interact Restful web services.  • Used Restful web services to consume the data from different projects  • Used Hibernate named queries concept to retrieve data from the database and integrate with Spring MVC to interact with back end persistence system (Oracle).  • Extensively involved in creating complex SQL queries and calling Stored Procedures.  • Request and Response mapping using Spring (AOP) from and to the application server by annotation based spring configuration in Eclipse IDE.  • Utilized core J2EE design patterns such as DTO (Data Transfer Object), DAO in the implementation of the services.  • Maintain high-quality of RESTful services and implemented REST web Services using Spring MVC and JAX-RS.  • Involved in development of SOAP based web services using WSDL, SOAP, JAXB, AXIS and JAX-WS.  • Used MOCKITO to develop test cases for java bean components and test them through TestNG framework. And used Code coverage plug-ins like SonarQube, Eclemma to improve the coverage and quality of code.  • Developed and configured Jasmine test cases to test the Angular controllers for UI in Jasmine framework (JavaScript Testing Framework) in Eclipse IDE.  • Ran npm-grunt commands using Node JS files.  • Developed various test cases to test the functionality for E2E (End-to-End) flow of application.  • Developing SQL stored procedure and prepared statements for updating and accessing data from database.  • Extensively performed User Interface validations on client-side.  • Used Maven to build and deploy application onto Weblogic Application Server and also used JRebel to deploy code onto server.  • Also worked in Production support analyzed issues and fixed by writing SQL scripts and java code.  • Used JIRA tracking tool to manage and track the issues reported by QA and prioritize and take Action based on the severity.  • Involved in training team members with the application and business functionality.  • Used Tortoise SVN for maintaining the component and for release and version management.  Environment: Java1.7, Spring 3.2.3, Hibernate 3.0, HTML5, CSS3, Angular-JS, NodeJS, RESTFUL Web Services, XML, JSP, JMS, SOAP, AngularJS1.2/2.0, JRebel, Eclipse Neon, Mockito, JUnit, Windows, JSON, Maven, Oracle 11g, Weblogic, Tortoise SVN, JIRA, Jasmine Testing Framework, SONAR. Sr. Java/JEE Developer Wal-Mart - Jefferson City, MO March 2015 to March 2016 Working on assortment which handles modular, category and item level forecasting, which involves complex modeling and manipulations of data. Which makes buyer to identify the sales and help them planning to have items in store.  Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in gathering, analyzing and documenting business requirements, functional requirements and data Specifications for application development  • Generated Use case, sequence and Class diagrams using Rational Tool Suite  • Involved in complete Software development lifecycle including Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance employed SCRUM methodology of Agile model  • Used Spring Framework in the application, which is based on MVC design pattern  • Extensively used Spring framework components such as Dependency injections and AOP.  • Worked on web application which has been developed using Spring 3.x & Hibernate frameworks  • Created dynamic web pages using AngularJS framework. Worked on two-way, one-way data binding, built-in components and developed single page applications using Angular JS.  • Involved in using spring concepts - DI/IOC, AOP, and Spring MVC.  • Involved in Declarative transaction management, logging and exception handling using spring AOP.  • Extensively used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database  • Used Hibernate 4.x, object/relational-mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with a SQL schema.  • Created WSDLs as per wire frames, UI pages & generated client jars using JAX-WS.  • Used Apache CXF to create SOAP based & Restful web services.  • Designed tables in Oracle 11g database and worked with Database Developers for implementing Stored Procedures in the application  • Assisted Database Developers using PL/SQL for managing data associated with the tables  • Worked with XML to exchanges messages through JMS among servers to retrieve information about customer details  • Expertise in implementing Service Oriented Architectures (SOA) with XML based Web Services (SOAP/UDDI/WSDL). Fixed critical issues when calling the different Web services  • Developed the AngularJS controller modules to consume the REST services  • Used SVN for version control across common source code used by developers.  • Developed ANT based build scripts to create deployable EAR files and provided support to QA and PROD environment in terms of deployment support and bug fixing  • Wrote unit tests and also involved in integration tests using Junit and Mockito.  • Involved in Web sphere server configuration, Data Sources, Connection Pooling, MQ Series Queues set up for messaging and deploying the apps on different servers in different environments.  • Actively involved in production support, fixing the problem and provide appropriate documentation describing the root cause of the problem, actions taken to rectify etc.  • Implemented build package tool using Maven.  • Responsible for deploying all the service components to Dev and QA.  • Involved in addressing the defects in QA, User Acceptance and Prod environments.  Environment: Core Java, Servlets, Ajax, Spring 3.x, Hibernate 4.3x, XML, Web Services - SOAP, REST, WSDL, SOA Architecture, JAXB, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, JUnit, Maven, Angular JS, Bootstrap JS, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, SVN, ANT, Maven, PL/SQL, Oracle 11g, WebSphere Application Server, Linux, Unix, Rational Tool Suite, Scrum, Agile, Apache-CXF, JUNIT, Mockito Java/J2EE Developer State Farm - Bloomington, IL March 2014 to February 2015 Project: Life Insurance Quote & Purchase (LQP)  Life Quote and Purchase is an Insurance product of State Farm. This is a web application which works on Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).This product has two modules 1. Customer 2. Agent Module. Entire LQP interacts with different functionalities to offer different products with various rating calculations and has got exclusive functionalities to communicate with Agent and Customer mutually.  Responsibilities:  • Actively involved with the team, management & client as a part of Agile (SCRUM) software development  • Implemented Spring framework for Dependency Injection, support for the Data Access Object (DAO) pattern and integrated with Hibernate  • Used Hibernate (O/R Mapping), JDBC to access the database in order to verify the credit approval level for customer  • Implemented Business logic for web service using spring annotations which enables dependency injection.  • Coordinated closely with client's Enterprise Architecture team in signing off the design of the application  • Maven was used to manage dependencies in the application and deploy it on WebLogic Application server.  • CVS as used for the version control  • Front end was developed using JSP, AJAX, Struts tags library, jQuery, HTML5, and CSS/CSS3.  • Involve in RESTful web services for making use of HTTP protocol between client and server  • Consumed Web Services using Apache CXF framework for getting remote information  • Developed Data persistence API using Hibernate and Spring DAO layer  • Implemented logging and transaction manager using Spring's Aspect Oriented Programming (AOP) concept  • Coded various business process methods required for creation of Web Services related to customer information and provider information, using JAX-WS, SOAP, WSDL and JAX-RS, REST web services.  • Utilized Apache CXF APIs to develop SOAP as well as RESTful web services  • Implemented critical DB design optimization techniques in the application  • Created Oracle cron jobs to update crucial tables  • Used Table per hierarchy inheritance of hibernates and mapped polymorphic associations  • Developed one-many, many-one, one-one annotation based mappings in Hibernate  • Developed and executed test data for unit, functional and user acceptance testing to assure quality project deliverables  • Handled the build and Deployment strategies  • Involvement in end to end project phases and providing warranty support on the applications  • Coordinated in all testing phases and worked closely with Performance testing team to create a baseline for the new application  • Involved in Authentication & authorization checks using Encryption & decryption techniques using x.509, Public/private key methods etc.  • Responsible for data migration to QA/User and Production region.  • Used JMS to pass messages as payload to track different statuses, milestones and states in workflows.  • Developed EJB's (Session Beans) for implementing business logic and transactional services  • Involved in achieving minimum percentage of code-coverage for unit tests, which was a requirement for committing to a repository.  Environment: Java/J2EE, Spring 3.x, Hibernate, JSP, Servlets, HTML, DOJO, JavaScript, Spring AOP, XML, XSD, XSLT, CSS, JPA, JUnit, JQuery, Apache CXF, RAD, Oracle, PL/SQL, SQL developer, WebSphere Application Server 8.1, Maven, Log4j, Unix, Microsoft Visio, Quality Center, JIRA Tracking tool Sr. Java/JEE Developer WellClub Inc - Philadelphia, PA November 2012 to February 2014 Project: Customer Account Management  Wellclub is a health care related project. It is kind of health care social networking platform for the individuals who want to maintain their health. By joining Wellclub, its clients can be either a member or the supporter for the Wellclub. Members are the normal users who want to maintain their health and supporters help them to achieve their goals by giving them suggestions.  Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with peer developers, business analyst, QA engineers, project manager to develop Codes and Standards Automated System using Groovy/Grails, Java, J2EE, Ajax, JQuery and JavaScript  • Worked as core technical team member for analysis of requirements, design, development, unit and integration testing  • Interacting with the Business Analyst and Host to understating the requirements using the Agile methodologies and SCRUM meeting to keep track and optimizing the end client needs  • Involved in the analysis, design, and development and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  • Used Microsoft Visio for developing Use case diagrams, Activity flow diagrams, Class diagrams and Object diagrams in the design phase  • Used Core Java - GOF & J2EE patterns for designing the applications  • Worked with the Struts framework and hibernate integration to maximize the Classical model view controller layer (MVC) Architecture  • Developed action classes and action forms to collect input  • Used the Struts validation and Tiles Framework in the presentation layer  • Implemented complex back-end component to get the count in no time against large size MySQL database (about 4 crore rows) using Java multi-threading  • Used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database. Generated the Hibernate mapping files and developed the underlying domain objects  • Used DAO on the Data access layer with the Hibernate. Actively involved in designing and implementing Singleton, MVC and several other design patterns such as Composite View, Session Façade, Business Delegate, Bean Factory, DAO  • Used Apache CXF for creating the Web Services to interact with other modules  • Developed WSDL in eclipse.  • Used SOAP to retrieve provider's data and SOAP UI to test Web services  • Used JUnit framework for unit testing of application and ANT to build the application and deployed on Web Logic  • Configured and used Log4J for logging  • Used Tortoise SVN for version control and used HPQC to track defects and change requests  • Used SAML for SSO login to access the web service provided and OAuth for authorizing the user to the application  • Implemented the user interface using the Java script, JSP, AJAX, HTML, CSS and Taglibs.  • Designed OO components and developed the functionality based on reusability in Core Java  • Designed a guided inspection template and inspected the design models  • Analyzed and Implemented Junit Test Cases for all business functions  • Worked on functional test cases and tabulated functional test analysis. Code quality check using PMD.  Environment: Core Java/J2EE, Struts, Validation Framework, JSP, Hibernate, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JNDI, Apache CXF, XML, SOAP, WSDL, SAX, DOM, SOAP UI, Web Logic, Rational Rose, Tortoise SVN, Log4J, JUnit, ANT, Oracle 10g, Eclipse, JVM, Check Style, PMD, Find bugs Java/J2EE Developer Value Labs - Hyderabad, Telangana February 2010 to October 2012 Project: Sales & Distribution System - NexGen  A web application to provide a solution for automating their sales and distribution across the country. The application facilitates the regional sales office to input their purchase orders, generate invoices, Store customer profiles, generate sales reports, year to date sales, pending indents, purchase orders.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle, such as requirements gathering, modeling, analysis, design and development  • Ensured clear understanding of customer's requirements in validating the business process analysis of customer before developing the final proposal  • Generated Use case diagrams, Activity flow diagrams, Class diagrams and Object diagrams in the design phase. Used Java Design Patterns like DAO, Singleton etc.  • Written SQL Statements for retrieving and updating data with varied complexity  • Involved in implementing multithreaded environment to generate messages  • Used JDBC Connections and WebSphere Connection pool for database access  • Used Struts tag libraries (like html, logic, tab, bean etc.) and JSTL tags in the JSP pages  • Involved in development using Struts components - Struts-config.xml, tiles, form-beans and plug-ins in Struts architecture  • Involved in design and implementation of document based Web Services.  • Used prepared statements and callable statements to implement batch insertions and access stored procedures.  • Involved in bug fixing and for the new enhancements  • Responsible for handling the production issues and provides immediate solution  • Configured connection pooling using WebLogic application server  • Developed and Deployed the Application on WebLogic using ANT build.xml script  • Developed SQL queries and stored procedures to execute the backend processes using Oracle  • Deployed application on WebLogic Application Server and development using Eclipse  Environment: Java 1.4, Servlets, JSP, JMS, Struts, Validation Framework, tag Libraries, JSTL, JDBC, PL/SQL, XML, DOM, SAX, JAXB, HTML, JavaScript, Oracle 9i (SQL), UNIX, AJAX, Eclipse 3.0, Windows XP/2000, Tomcat Server, LINUX, CVS Education Bachelor's Skills Java (8 years), JavaScript (8 years), Oracle (8 years), web services. (8 years), XML (8 years), Rest, Spring, Java J2Ee, Hibernate, J2Ee, Angular, Soap, Restful, Core Java, AWS Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Programming Languages: Java, SQL / PLSQL  Databases: Oracle, DB2, MySQL  Operating Systems Windows: 9x / 2000 / 7 / NT, Unix, Linux  Build Tools: Maven, Ant  Frameworks: Spring 3.x, MVC, Hibernate 4.x/3.x, Struts 1.x/2.x  Application Servers: Oracle WebLogic, JBoss, Tomcat 6.x/7.0  Version Control: SVN, VSS, CVS, GitHub  IDE Eclipse: 3.x, RAD, My Eclipse  Methodologies: Agile, Waterfall, Iterative  Design: Patterns Factory, Abstract Factory, Service Locator, Singleton, Decorator, DAO, DTO, MVC, Business Delegate, Facade, Strategy  Web Development Languages: HTML5, XML, AJAX, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, Angular JS, Bootstrap  APIs: JSP, JDBC, Servlets, Java MailAPI, XML, JAXB, JMS, JSTL, SOAP &RESTFUL Web Services - JAX-WS, JAX-RS, CXF, JERSEY, AXIS, EJB - Session beans, Entity beans  XML Technologies: XML, JAXP, JAXB, XSLT, JNDI  Open Sources: JUnit, Apache CXF, AXIS  Tools: Query Browser, Visio2003, SOAPUI  Agile Tools: Rally, JIRA  Testing APIs: Junit, Mockito, Power Mockito  Continuous Integration Tool: Jenkins  Quality Tools: Check Styles, PMD, Find bugs, Sonar QUBE