Sr. Java / J2EE Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> / J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java / J2EE Developer - Baptist Memorial Health Care Corporations Jersey City, NJ • 8 years of experience as a Full stack developer in developing web-based client server applications, data solutions, Intranet/Internet Enterprise Software applications.  • Good experience in Software Development life cycle using various methodologies like Waterfall, Agile and Test-Driven Development.  • Expertise working with frame works like Spring Core, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring DAO (Spring JDBC, Spring ORM), Spring Batch, Spring JMS, Spring Security and Hibernate.  • Proficient in implementing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using SOAP and Restful Web Services.  • Experienced in developing Front End web applications using JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, Angular2, Angular4, Bootstrap, ReactJS and NodeJS.  • Experienced in developing Web Applications involving J2EE technologies like JSP, Servlets, EJB, JMS, JDBC, JNDI, JAXB, Struts, Hibernate, and Spring MVC • Experience with RDBMS concepts like writing Queries, Functions, Triggers, Stored Procedures and PL/SQL packages.  • Expertise in using and configuring various web and application servers like IBM WebSphere Application Server, WebSphere Liberty profile, Apache Tomcat, JBoss Application Server and WebLogic Application Server • Experience in using the Log4j framework for Logging Application.  • Experience in developing, designing in UML, Package, Class and State Diagrams.  Well versed with Core java concepts like Collections, Multithreading, Serialization,  Java Beans and Network programming.  • Extensive experience in SQL by writing queries for Insert, Update and Modification operations using Oracle, MySQL and SQL Server and also performed optimization and normalization using database tools.  • Experience in developing Maven Scripts and ANT scripts for building and deploying of J2EE applications.  • Extensive years of experience in working with Junit for Unit testing and Integration testing.  • Highly experienced with developing multi-tier Enterprise Applications using Eclipse, NetBeans and MyEclipse.  • Used various web Servers such as Apache Tomcat, Glassfish, IBM WebSphere and Pivotal tc Server for developing server-side applications.  • Worked with Web services testing tools like SoapUI and Postman.  • Well acquainted with workflows and Unified Modeling Language (UML) diagrams including Use Cases, Activity Charts, Sequence Diagrams, Data Flow Diagrams, and ER Diagrams using Rational rose, MS Visio.  • Exposure to LINUX Commands Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java / J2EE Developer Baptist Memorial Health Care Corporations - Memphis, TN August 2018 to Present Project Description: The aim of the project is to Develop an API based interactive in-line quality and rules engine for all Mortgage origination channels. The project builds out Qualification Rules and engine accessible via data base for validation of rule engine. Building of Credit Underwriting Guidelines and Manual underwriting qualifiers, conditions and defects, utilizing a manual process to validate the output of qualifying questions and rules via the rules Engine.    Responsibilities: • Developed presentation layer includes UI components, validations using HTML5, applying styles using CSS, used jQuery to make Ajax calls. Design and develop the Process Engine framework using JBPM.  • Actively involved in Analysis, Design, Development, System Testing and User Acceptance Testing. Successfully followed Agile methodology in the Scrum Cycle model.  • Developed using new features of Java 1.8 annotations, Generics, enhanced for loop and Enums, Lambda expressions for array operations, collections throughout the application for well-defined programming.  • Successfully handled all Apigee and backend related errors in the API proxies using JavaScript • Excellent knowledge on CQL (Cassandra Query Language), for retrieving the data present in Cassandra cluster by running queries in CQL.  • Involved in designing various stages of migrating data from RDBMS to Cassandra.  • Used AngularJS as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA), which can bind data to specific views. Used AngularJS for creating user interfaces and connecting to software components.  • Used Kafka for building real-time streaming data pipelines that reliably get data between systems or applications • Use Jenkins with Maven to Compile & Build Microservices code and configure Build Triggers.  • Created REST API documentation using Swagger and YAML.  • Implemented logging using SLF4J and LOG 4J, Used Log4J utility to log error, info and debug messages.  • Created and deployed Rules engine API into JBoss BRMS image • Learn and move quickly with excellent technical execution and the ability to build out complex API from scratch, • Followed test-driven development (TTD) as a part writing all Unit Test and Integration Tests.  • Unit and integration test cases are being designed and developed using JUnit.  • Worked on creation of custom Docker container images, tagging, pushing images, integration offspring boot.  • Created the Docker containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle.  • Integrated spring with Hibernate using Hibernate Template to perform CRUD operations against database.  • JBPM is a light-weight, extensible workflow engine written in pure Java that allows you to execute business processes using the latest BPMN 2.0 specification.  • Used Spring Boot based services to interact through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka message brokers. Designed and Implemented the DAO layer using spring, hibernate.  • Implemented Spring Circuit breaker pattern, integrated Hystrix dashboard to monitor Spring micro services.  • Developed REST APIs using Scala and Play framework to retrieve processed data from Cassandra database.  • Used a Microservice architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka message brokers • Used Hibernate, object/relational-mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with SQL-based schema.  • Used Hibernate Transaction Management, Hibernate Batch Transactions, and Hibernate cache concepts.  • Used Scala Test for writing test cases and coordinated with QA team on end to end testing.  • Created tables and worked on SQL, PL/SQL to write Stored Procedures functions, packages for Inserts, updates in the database. Worked on Entity beans in the persistence layer, interaction with Oracle DB.  • Migrated Database from SQL Databases (Oracle and SQL Server) to NO SQL Databases (Cassandra/MONGODB).  • In depth knowledge of Mongo DB and hands on experience with installing, configuring and monitoring with OPS manager.  • Have Knowledge on Apache Spark with Cassandra.  • Wrote SQL queries to get the data, update the data from the database and to connect database in the DAO implementation. Involved in Dev Ops activities like configuring Jenkins job, Jenkins pipeline Script for CI/CD.  • Performed configuration, deployment and support of cloud services including Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Experience on computer science fundamentals in object-oriented design, data structures, algorithm design, problem solving, and complexity analysis.    Environment: J2EE, Spring 4.x, Spring MVC, Spring Hysteric, Spring quartz, Drools, JBPM, Jira, Java1.8, Hibernate 4.x, Angular JS, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, GWT, Web Services, APIGEE, XML, JAXB, WSDL, JavaScript, Oracle 12c, Web Sphere 8.x, Agile Methodology, Design Patterns, Git, SourceTree, Bitbucket, MuleSoft, Apache Maven, Adobe Flex, JUnit, Rest Assured, HTML5, Apache Kafka, Postman, WebLogic 12c. Sr. JAVA/J2EE Change Health care - Lombard, IL June 2016 to July 2018 Project Description: This is a web application based on J2EE architecture. It provides web-based access to inpatient and outpatient data from the Data Repository. Users can review as well as update or enter new data through data repository. Many clinicians use Data Repository daily for accessing patient data, which aids in making important clinical decisions. Data Repository is mainly composed of various modules running inside of the application. The project aims to provide the company with data to develop evidence-based health policy decisions as well. The client programs are for issuing or retrieving data from the database on the query for finding health policy premium.    Responsibilities: • Worked in Agile, Scrum Environment's and participated in requirement gathering, analysis and design.  • Defined and constructed layers, server-side objects and client-side interfaces on Java/J2EE design patterns.  • Developed and implemented Spring MVC framework for the application.  • Utilized Java 8 features like Lambda expressions and Stream API for Bulk data operations on Collections which would increase the performance of the Application.  • Designed Prototype and project layout skeletons jQuery, CSS3, HTML5, XML, DHTML and JavaScript.  • Developed Single Page Applications (SPA's) using AngularJS. Created Multiple & Nested Views, Routing, Controllers, Services and Custom Directives, Node.js, Bower and Grunt.  • Involved in the process of Design, Coding and Testing phases of the software development cycle, involved in designing Spring boot application and Hibernate ORM 5.0.2.  • Created an in-memory data structure cache by using React DOM for updating browser efficiently.  • JBPM can be combined with the Drools project to support one unified environment that integrates these paradigms where you model your business logic as a combination of processes, rules and events.  • Used AngularJS in creating animations based on CSS classes for a new requirement surfaced for the client.  • Used react-redux library to connect Redux application state to ReactJS components, used redux store to combine different reducers to produce a global state.  • RESTful web services using Jersey for JAX-RS implementation and to transport detain JSON format.  • Worked on SOA Web Services using SOAP for transmission of large blocks of XML data over HTTP.  • Consumed Web Services to fetch and direct credit card information from third party application.  • Developed new features for a REST SOAP backend in Clojure and led evolution of a backend architecture.  • Used a Microservice architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka message brokers • JBPM eclipse-based developer tools to support the modeling, testing and debugging of processes.  • Implemented the associated business modules integration using Spring and Hibernate data mapping.  • Used Spring dependency injection, annotations and Spring MVC components to implement business layer and navigation part of application.  • Used various jQuery and Bootstrap plug-in like date picker, Bootstrap selectors.  • Wrote SQL queries, stored procedures and enhanced performance by running explain plans.  • Elastic Cache can be run in the Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (Amazon VPC) environment and Redis can use Elastic Cache with almost no modification.  • Followed TDD (Test Driven Development) methodology to write unit tests with JUNIT and Mockito. Write automated regression tests using JMeter.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JDK 1.7/1.8, RCP, AWS SDK, Ext JS, Git, JFC, Spring 4.x, AWS SNS/SQS, hibernate4.x, Scala, Core Java, SOAP/Rest, Web Services, Python 2.7, JavaScript, UML, HTML5, CSS, SASS, RAD 7, WAS 8 WSDL, SDK's, JIRA 5.x/6.x, JAXB, Linux, JAX-WS, JAX RPC, JMS, UNIX, Selenium NOSQL(MongoDB), AngularJS1.5, ReactJS, AJAX, Apache JMeter, jQuery, Mule ESB JUnit, Maven, EMR. Java /J2EE Developer Verizon - Irving, TX October 2013 to March 2016 Project Description: Responsible for effective design and development practices, and help implement the best (most responsive, most robust/secure, most user-friendly/functional, most network/power-sensitive) applications for Verizon. Developed gateway application which helps information that need to come inside from Partners/Vendors as well as files that go in the reverse direction through EFG. It is a gateway between internal applications and external partners.    Responsibilities: • Involved in Design, Development and Support phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC). Used AGILE methodology and participated in SCRUM meetings.  • Designed and developed the User Interface components using Spring and maintained the session with Session Beans.  • Implemented scripting with Ajax and XML to dynamically refresh the page contents.  • Implemented JAXB in XML binding.  • Involved in the Development of Spring Framework Controllers. Developed Controller for request, response paradigm by Spring Controllers using Spring-MVC.  • Configured various interceptors for transaction management, security, Audit logging(database) and logging using Spring AOP.  • Data from UI layer sent through JMS to Middle layer and from there using MDB message retrieves Messages and will be sent to MQSeries.  • Used JSON as response type in REST services • Developed Data Access Objects (DAO's) for interacting with the database using JDBC.  • Involved in developing Stored procedures and Triggers on Oracle 10g.  • Used Hibernate Persistence Strategy to interact with database.  • Developed Hibernate mapping files using different mapping strategies such as table per class hierarchy.  • Integrated Hibernate with Spring by coding a Spring Configuration file.  • Configured JMS in the WebSphere application server to send messages on the queue.  • Deployed the application in WebSphere Application Server 6.0.1.  • Developed a tool to retrieve and send data to third party service provider. This feature was implemented using REST • Performed application performance tuning using J Profiler.  • Built Maven scripts for automated deployment and for the build operation of the entire application.  • Hands-on experienced working with version controller tools such as ClearCase and Clear Quest as issue tracking software.  • Used RESTFUL client to interact with the services by providing the RESTFUL URL mapping • Used Subversion for version control and created automated build scripts.  • Performed unit testing using JUnit.  • Handled production support of the application.  • Documented the flow and functionality of the code for further reference.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Servlets, AJAX, Spring, JMS, HTML5, JavaScript, JSP, EJB, CVS, CSS, MVC, JDBC, J Profiler, Oracle 10g, XML, JSON, Spring MVC, Hibernate, MQSeries, WebSphere, JUnit, Subversion, Profiler, Maven, ClearCase, Clear Quest. Software Developer First Republic Bank - San Francisco, CA June 2010 to September 2013 Project Description: This system is used for assigning the project and to track the status of the project. This has two modules like user module and admin module. The supervisor assigns tasks to the team, approving the timesheet, setting goals for the performance review. The team member will login into the system and enter the timesheet for the assigned task with the tasks completed. This system will help to see the progress and status of the completion of the tasks.  Responsibilities: • Involved in the development of various front-end modules.  • Worked in deadline driven environment.  • Developing Java script modules for client-side validations.  • Developed core Java backend tools.  • Developed custom tag libraries for formatting contents in JSPs.  • Developed and deployed EJBs on the server.  • Involved in the production support for the application.  • Developed various server-side components using various J2EE technologies.  • Involved in the development of different user interface screens using JavaScript, CSS, and HTML.  • Developed presentation modules using Struts framework.  • Developed various controller components using Struts framework.  • Extensively used JDBC to access the database objects.  • Extensively involved in coding of various design patterns.  Environment: Java 1.4, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, Struts, MVC, EJB, Java  Beans, SQL, PL/SQL, Design Patterns, JDBC, JBOSS, Log4J, Apache ANT, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, XML, DB2, Stored Procedures. Education Bachelor's Skills CSS (8 years), data base (8 years), J2EE (8 years), Java (8 years), JavaScript (8 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages Core Java, Java 8, Java SE 6, J2SE 5.0, J2SE 1.4, J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL.  Enterprise Java Servlets, JSTL, Design Patterns, JSF, JMS, JSP, JNDI, JDBC, Log4J API, Java security.  Mark-up/XML Technologies HTML, XHTML, JavaScript, CSS, XML, XSD, XSL/XSLT, AJAX, jQuery, JSON, Bootstrap, AngularJS.  Tools & Framework Spring, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring batch, Spring Security, Spring AOP, Struts, Hibernate, JSF, Log4J, Jasper reports.  Web Services SOAP, RESTful, WSDL.  Web/App Servers Web Sphere, WebLogic, Apache Tomcat, JBoss, Jetty Server.  Database: Oracle, SQL-Server, MySQL server.  Development Tools Eclipse, My Eclipse, Spring Tool Suite STS.  O-R mapping Hibernate, JPA.  Version Control Tools SourceTree, Git, Bit bucket, Tortoise SVN.  Testing Tools/ Others: JUnit, SoapUI, Putty, Rational Clear Quest, Mockito, Fitness, Load UI, Groovy Spock, Jenkins.  OS & Environment Windows, Linux, UNIX.  Design Patterns MVC, Front Controller, Singleton, Business Delegate and DAO patterns.  Build Automation ANT, MAVEN, Gradle.