Sr. ROR Developer Sr. ROR <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. ROR Developer Washington, DC Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. ROR Developer DCHBX And MA Health Connector - Washington, DC June 2018 to May 2019 Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  ? Designed and Developed Notice Engine using several Ruby gems and RabbitMQ. Notice Engine gives the ability to the Admin to edit the Notice UI Template in Real time without any development requirement.  ? Designed and Developed the Notice Engine for Automated and Manual Batches Observers and Params.  ? Designed and Developed Tokens Library, and Conditions for Front End Usage in UI of Notice Engine.  ? Designed BRD for development of Notice Engine development.  ? Implemented CK Editor and several UI Plugins for Notice Engine  ? Worked in the design and development phases as lead of the application using ROR framework.  ? Used Rails, AJAX, JSON, CSS and JavaScript to design the front end of the application. Back end of the application is developed mainly using Active Records.  ? Developed and tested many features in an AGILE environment using Ruby on Rails, HTML5, CSS JavaScript, Bootstrap, Rspec, and Html.  ? Input validations were done using Rails Validation functions.  ? Involved in developing and implementation of the web application using Ruby on Rails.  ? Implemented and enhanced CRUD operations for the applications using the MVC architecture of Rails framework and Ruby conducting code reviews.  ? User Interface for website with ERB, JavaScript, RJS, Ruby, Ajax for View, Controller, Model in Ruby on Rails Framework on Mac OS X and Operating System.  ? Worked with Active record Classes from Rails Console for Database programming, which also involved writing active record validations.  ? Designed and developed the web applications and interface using Ruby, Rails, and AJAX.  ? Developed and implemented flagship Health Benefit Exchange platform using Ruby on Rails and MongoDB.  ? Designed and developed the frontend application using Rails, CSS, AJAX.  ? Wrote ruby scripts for deployments onto AWS and Continuous Integration provisioning.  ? Developed web applications with W3C, XHTML, HTML5, CSS3 standards and using Ruby, Rails, Git.  ? Developed stored procedures compatible with MongoDB in ruby.  ? Developed solutions using Ruby on Rails and Active Record and integrated gems, plug-in etc.  ? Created and modified code within a Ruby on Rails-based application  ? Ruby on Rails-based platform via decoration, extensive use of view models, and additional market=based customizations.  ? Involved in developing and implementation of the Back-end web application using Ruby on Rails.  ? Created a Rich Single Page Application using HTML, CSS, JSP, JSON, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js.  ? Used REST Web Services for creating rate summary and used WSDL and SOAP messages for getting insurance plans from different module and used XML parsers for data retrieval  ? Agile/SCRUM was used as the project management methodology and JIRA & Confluence were the tools used to keep things in check.  ? Identify, Fix Bugs and Bottlenecks.  Background Skills:  Ruby (2.2.3), Rails (4.2.7.1, 5.X), RabbitMQ, CK Editor, MongoDB, HTML, Rspec, SAML, CSS3, NodeJS, JavaScript, XML, SOAP, REST, Cucumbers. Sr. ROR Developer Regional One Health - Memphis, TN October 2016 to May 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Worked jointly with User experience experts and Product Management team regarding product definition, scope, schedule and project-related decisions and translated requirements into consumer-facing UI designs.  ? Developed and tested some features for dashboard using Ruby on Rails, Bootstrap, CSS3, JavaScript, with Rspec.  ? Developing and maintaining enterprise class database driven websites utilizing Oracle 11g, JavaScript and Node.js, Backbone.js.  ? Developed and maintained View layer of MVC framework using jQuery, HTML, CSS and SASS framework.  ? Involved in planning and carried out daily scrums, weekly estimations, retrospectives and pair programming.  ? Good knowledge on Docker and how to build and dockerize a Ruby on Rails application that uses PostgreSQL.  ? Used RABL and jQuery data tables to handle JSON data and Develop the webpages using HAML, SCSS and Coffee script.  ? Actively involved in the Backend development of the application with the team.  ? Used Active Records for Database Migration and involved in using Active Resources, Fixtures, Action View and Action Controller in Rails framework.  ? Used Scaffolding to design and develop controller and view part of the system.  ? Extensive experience in developing Ruby Gems like Foreman and scripting using Ruby Core and Ruby Standard Libraries.  ? Integrated Salesforce Applications with Oracle using SOAP API.  ? Worked on Salesforce Lightning Components for building customized components replacing the existing ones.  ? Have good knowledge and worked with in core Java concepts like Multi-threading.  ? Used Ruby on rails design and develop the website, backed by PHP and MySQL.  ? Used RSpec, Factory Girl, Capybara for application unit testing and integration testing with gem mocha.  ? Managed applications and infrastructure with the help on Chef and Puppet.  ? Used Jenkins for the Continuous test build automation, like continuous integration and deployment.  ? Created Lightning components for the App Builder.  ? Integrating third party SOAP and REST API's with new and existing web applications.  ? Working with Ruby gems such as ruby-pg for Postgres-SQL.  ? Integrated with Database using Active Record as a Model.  ? Collaborated and coordinated with the management and design team to implement new features.  Background Skills:  Ruby (2.1), Rails (4.0), Postgres SQL, HTML, RSpec, HAML, CSS3, NodeJS, Java, jQuery, JavaScript, Oracle 11g, SOAP, REST, Chef. Sr. ROR Developer BNP Paribas - New York, NY August 2015 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Worked in the design and development phases of the application using ROR framework  ? Used Rails, AJAX, CSS and AngularJS to design the front end of the application. Back end of the Application is developed mainly using Active Records  ? Created and deployed new features and amend existing features  ? Developed and tested many features in AGILE environment using Ruby on Rails, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Rspec.  ? Fixing the bugs and tickets filed by quality assurance and product management team  ? Involved in developing and implementation of the web application using Ruby on Rails  ? Designed applications using Object Oriented Programming (OOPS) concepts  ? Used jQuery, HTML5 and advanced JS frameworks for better look and feel  ? Used Agile and Scrum methodologies in the project development  ? Used Active Records for Database Migration and also involved in using Active Resources, Fixtures, Action View and Action Controller in the Rails Framework  ? Used scaffolding to design and develop the controller and the view part of the system  ? Action Mailer is used for applying the user mailing module  ? Composed Cucumber and RSpec tests in the application and coded in JavaScript for page usefulness and popup screens.  ? Part of developing style sheets by using sass-rails gem  ? Provided validations and scope for many models present in the database and created many associations within those models  ? Experience with all of the GEMS and libraries for this version of the ruby on rails  ? This involves designing database model for the entire application like creating tables, views and stored procedure using MongoDB  ? Manage, collaborate and coordinate the work of an offshore development team  ? Special skills in developing user friendly, simple yet effective web based applications.  ? Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and denormalization.  ? Experience in using Resque and Redis for the Background jobs  ? Experience in using Git, GitHub and Amazon EC2 and deployment using Heroku  ? Interactive in providing change requests, trouble reports and requirements collection with the Client.    Background Skills:  Ruby on Rails, MongoDB, Cucumber, Rspec, Unicorn, HTML5, CSS3, SOAP, AJAX, JQuery, JavaScript, RESTful, Git. Java / ROR Developer Citi Group - New York, NY January 2014 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Designing the website using Ruby on Rails, backed by Capistrano and MySQL to automate and ease the deployment process on Phusion Passenger server. ERB Templating, RJS, YAML and Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) to design the web pages.  ? Designed and implemented features of a REST API that mediates between product orders placed on partner web sites and internal services which perform fulfillment.  ? Implemented the Query part of the reports using Active Records and ran the rake tasks for every weekly report, dumping the SQL data to a CSV file.  ? Created a single-page, custom web application using Angular JS as the development framework.  ? Using Sinatra Framework, Developed complex APIs for third party integration (JSON File Format) and authentication as specifications.  ? Used RSpec to create test driven development. Experience with all the GEMS and libraries for this version of the ruby/rails.  ? Refactored puppet manifests to reflect best practices. Wrote Puppet modules for Installing and managing JAVA versions, Upgrading the Linux Kernel and Gathering system metrics via Systat.  ? Investigated production system issues and performed test and production environment deployments.  ? Deployed and maintained servers (Red Hat Linux/CentOS) providing clustered key-value caching and text indexing.  ? Worked with Amazon Web Services (AWS) as a cloud platform for internal deployment and testing purpose.  ? Used Test Driven Development approach and wrote many unit and integration test cases.  ? Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side.  ? Developing in Rails and JavaScript/jQuery, deploying on AWS and managing code using Git.  ? Acted as a point of contact for bug fixes, data fixes and high priority code changes when required.    Background Skills:  Ruby 1.9.3, Rails 4.0, CSS3, MySQL, CentOS, YAML, Chef, Unit Testing, Cucumber, JSON, jQuery, Angular JS 2.0, Capistrano for deployment. JAVA Developer Cognizant Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2010 to December 2012 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in analysis, design and development of Portfolio Management.  ? Created Use case diagrams, Class diagrams and Activity diagrams using Microsoft Visio.  ? Followed iterative approach in timely manner.  ? Developed front-end using JSP, HTML, CSS, JAVA Script and J query.  ? Responsible for developing Servlet.  ? Involved in implementing database design, connectivity and access.  ? Wrote MySQL queries and used JDBC API.  ? Worked in Windows environment for building the application using net beans IDE.  ? Developed test cases and performed unit testing using J Unit.  ? Extensively used Collabnet subversion for version control.  ? Used Glassfish Server for deploying various components of application.    Background Skills:  JAVA, J2EE, JAVA SDK, JSP, HTML, JDBC, OOAD, SERVLETS, SVN, MYSQL, WINDOWS XP PROFESSIONAL, JAVA SCRIPT, J QUERY, GLASSFISH SERVER, NET BEANS IDE, MICROSOFT VISIO.    TCS Internal, Bangalore, India JAVA / J2ee Developer April 2009 to June 2010 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in modifying, updating and testing of the component.  ? Involved in group meeting with teammates and made substantial changes to the architecture to improve performance of the Application.  ? Modified JSPs, used struts tag libraries and Java Server Pages Standard Tag Library (JSTL).  ? Maintained Struts architecture throughout the application.  ? Developed the bean classes for better data exchange between the MVC layers  ? Successfully differentiated presentation from code.  ? Used multi threading and socket programming.  ? Deployed the application on WebLogic Application Server.  ? Created connection pools and data sources.  ? Modified JavaScript to read client side activities (events) and data and event validations.  ? Used WinCVS as version Control system.  ? Suggested ER models and changes in the table structures  ? Modified SQL, PL/SQL procedures and triggers to obtain optimize output.  ? Involved in separation of components and deploying in different servers and balancing the load among each Server.  ? Solved performance issues and brought optimal output from the available resources.    Background Skills:  JAVA, J2EE, SYBASE, BEA WEBLOGIC SERVER, JSTL, SQL SERVER, STRUTS FRAME WORK, SERVLETS, JSP, EJB, WINCVS, JAVABEANS, ECLIPSE, UML, WINDOWS XP/LINUX. Education Master's Skills Backbone.js (6 years), Spring, Mvc, Junit, MongoDB (5 years), MySQL (6 years), Ruby on Rails (5 years), RabbitMQ (1 year)