Sr. Java/J2EE Full Stack Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java/J2EE Full Stack Developer - Charter Communications Denver, CO • Over 8 years of experience in analysis, design, implementation and testing of Object-Oriented Applications in Client/Server environments using Java/J2EE and front-end technology stack.  • Experience working with various methodologies based on Agile, Scrum, Waterfall Model, TDD, Iterations.  • Expertise in Object Oriented and Multi-threaded/Concurrent Programming using Java/J2EE related technologies.  • Experienced in front End technologies such as HTML 5, CSS 3, JQuery, JavaScript, ReactJs, NodeJs, AngularJS, ExtJS, BackboneJS, Bootstrap, VBScript, Perl, AJAX, JSON, XSD, XSTL, Tiles, Tag Libraries.  • Experienced in Middleware persistence framework like Hibernate/JPA, JDBC, iBatis for mapping Java POJO classes/Objects with database and using Hibernate Query Language (HQL).  • Experienced in Full stack front end technologies using Grunt js, Glup Server, Yoman generator for Angular.  • Experienced in Client-side validation, Client-Server data interaction using Ajax in Nodejs.  • Experience in development and delivery using Java8, Spring Boot, Hibernate/JPA, AWS Lambda and Test-Driven Development.  • Experience in developing Mobile web applications using JQuery Mobile and phone gap for Smartphones & Tablets.  • Experience in working with Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) which includes Universal Description and Discovery Integration (UDDI) lookups and WSDL, JAX-WS and JAX-RS using res protocol.  • Extensively used different Tag Libraries like JSF Tags, Struts Tags, JSTL, Spring Tags, Display Tag, XML/XSD.  • Experienced in frameworks: Spring MVC, Jakarta struts framework, JSF, spring and Hibernate.  • Strong experience in Spring Framework modules such as Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring AOP and Spring Heroku, Spring Integration, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Netflix, Spring Zuul with Thymeleaf.  • Good experienced in building service-oriented solutions and RESTful Microservices.  • Developed applications using latest technologies like EJB3.0, Spring2.x/3.x/4.x, Hibernate3.2/4.x, and REST based Web services (axis2.0, JAX WS 2.0), Rule Engines (Drools4.1, ILOG), XML API and tools.  • Experience in implementing Java EE design patterns such as MVC, Singleton, Factory, Session Facade, DAO, DTO, Command and Business Delegate in the development of Multi-Tier distributed Enterprise Applications.  • Experience in configuring and deploying the applications on Tomcat, WebSphere, WebLogic and JBoss Servers.  • Strong skills in RDBMS implementation and development using Oracle (10g, 11g), MySQL and hands on experience with SQL. Worked on NOSQL database DynamoDB.  • Good Experience in designing Java, J2EE applications using Amazon Web Services and have good knowledge of AWS services like EC2, S3, Elastic Beanstalk, ELB, VPC, Direct Connect, Route53, SNS, SQS, Cloud Watch.  • Experienced in working with multiple databases like Oracle 10g/11g/12c, SQL Server, MySQL, DB2, NOSQL DB like Mongo DB, Cassandra and written complex SQL queries, procedures, Triggers and Stored procedures.  • Experience in debugging and logging using the log framework - log4j and analysis and reporting with Splunk.  • Experienced in application build tools like ANT, Maven, Jenkins, Kubernetes and Docker.  • Strong experience in TDD, using the JUnit frame work with Mockito, Power Mockito &Spring Junit Runner.  • Good experience in unit testing using Karma, Jasmine and JUnit, Automated Testing Selenium (IDE/Web driver), Integration testing using Selenium, Hudson, Jenkins and Apache Camel.  • Experienced in development, testing and deployment of enterprise applications on Windows & UNIX platforms using IDE's such as Eclipse, Rational Application Developer (RAD), Netbeans, Spring Tool Suite (STS), intellij.  • Experience in using version controlling/tracking systems Subversion, CVS, SVN, GIT, and Rational Clear Case.  • Having knowledge on (JMS) MQ's like Kafka, Rabbit MQ, IBM MQ and Active MQ. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java/J2EE Full Stack Developer Charter Communications - Denver, CO March 2018 to Present Description: Charter Communications is a leading telecommunications company, which offers its services to consumers and businesses under the branding of spectrum, our project is to provide the services for 3 network companies Time Warner Cable, Spectrum, Charter Communications. We have the API's which can provide data by sending the request in both JSON and XML format using SOAP and Restful Web services. We are moving all the data into single database. The request process, validations and business logic implementations are done using Java, Spring Boot, Spring JDBC and Angular for rich UI Implementation.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in JAD sessions with clients for gathering the requirements and involved in Analysis meetings and designed components for the project based on requirement, followed Agile methodology.  • Developed user interfaces using AJAX, Java Script, HTML, DHTML, and CSS.  • Used Angular Promise, Angular Custom directives, Angular custom services, Angular to REST to Spring calls  • Implemented the search functionality for Internal Application using Angular 4 and Node js.  • Used Angular router to build single page application for navigating through the different status and multiple models.  • Developed the application under J2EE Architecture using Spring Boot, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring EAI.  • Spring Boot Microservices were developed with microservice architecture using REST and Apache Kafka.  • Created REST based web services by establishing links using HATEOAS from Spring based application.  • Deployed Spring Microservices Docker on ECS to manage the containers and used Docker to virtualize deployment containers and push the code to ECS.  • Involved in deploying systems on Amazon Web Services (AWS) Infrastructure Services EC2.  • Used AWS Lambda to run the code in the AWS (Amazon Web Services) and Deployed Spring Boot based micro services Docker container using Amazon EC2 container services and using AWS admin console.  • Designed & developed webservices in MVC pattern spring framework and used WAS for the deployments.  • Involved in doing the process Documentations and also audit compliance on UNIX and Linux servers.  • Worked closely with QA team and fixed QA bugs as well as production issues with a quick turnaroundtime.  • Developed unit test cases using Mockito and Power Mockito framework for testing accuracy of code.  • Responsible for Configuring Kafka Consumer and Producer metrics to visualize the Kafka System performance.  • Created stored procedures to extract data from various data sources like Flat Files, XML Files and SQL server.  • Modified SQL, PL/SQL procedures and triggers to obtain optimize output and also worked with Cassandra.  • Highly used MQ Visual Edit and MQ Visual Utility tools for connecting to remote queue managers.  • Worked with IDE as RAD 9.1 and deployed the application into WebSphere Application Server 8.5.  • Involved in Migrating the project from Ant to Maven build tool to achieve more functionality for build process.  • Used Dimensions and GitLab as version management, JIRA for defect management system.    Environment: Java 8.0, Spring Boot, Hibernate, JavaScript, Angular 4.0, HTML 5.0, CSS3, WAS 8.5, RAD, log4j, Mockito, Power Mockito, XML, SQL Server, Cassandra, Maven, MQ Visual Utility, MQ Visual Edit. Sr. Java & AWS Developer GEICO - Chevy Chase, MD October 2016 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  • Implemented the Model View Controller (MVC) framework and worked on Spring Quartz functionality for scheduling tasks.  • Designed RESTful webservices for transferring XML data between two interfaces and for handling AJAX requests.  • Designed and developed the UI using spring view component HTML 5, CSS 3, Bootstrap and AngularJS 4.0.  • Used Spring validator framework for client and server-side validation, used Spring and Hibernate for implementing IOC, AOP and ORM for back end tiers and developed DAO interfaces using Hibernate to interact with database.  • Configured & deployed Java applications on Amazon Web Services (AWS) for a multitude of applications utilizing the AWS stack, cloud formation.  • Developed server-side software modules and client-side user interface components deployed entirely in Compute Cloud of Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Worked with Java libraries to access AWS facilities as Simple Storage Service (S3), Simple Queue Service (SQS) and DynamoDB.  • Used a Microservice architecture with Spring Boot through REST and Apache Kafka message brokers.  • Developed Micro services using Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring AOP, Dependency Injection.  • Implemented Authentication & Authorization with Site Minder and Spring security integration, certificates.  • Developed Applications using Rule Engines, Drools, ILOG with corresponding to validate the business User roles.  • Updating status report daily basis and weekly basis by conducting meetings with QA team.  • Utilized pair programming approach to ensure high quality code and Involved in production deployment and support activities of the system and Coordinated with various teams including offshore support teams.  • Used Multi-Threading and concurrency and implemented threads while preparing and generating mails.  • Performed deployment of applications on WebSphere Application Server (WAS) and tested Service and data access tier using TestNG and performed UI testing and front-end testing using Selenium.  • Migrated existing modules in Active MQ to Kafka. Used DB Connect APP to load data from Mongo DB.  • Used GIT as version management, JIRA for defect management system, Maven as build tool.    Environment: Java 8.0, Spring 4, Hibernate 4.2, Spring batch/security/Boot, JavaScript, AngularJS 4.0, HTML 5.0, CSS3, WAS 8.5, Eclipse, Mongo DB, log4j, TestNG, XML, SQL Server, Kafka, Scala, Selenium. Sr. Java Developer DCI Marketing, Wisconsin WI December 2014 to September 2016 Responsibilities:  • As a Java developer involved in back-end and front-end developing team. Took part in developing, maintaining, reviewing and supporting quality code and involved in daily SCRUM meetings and weekly SPRINT Meetings.  • Worked on Security-System development for Web Applications. Integrated application with Spring Security for form-based authentication and authorization by used spring security jsp tags to provide UI level spring security.  • Implemented Dynamic job scheduling according to the business need (daily, weekly, monthly etc.) same using Quartz scheduler and developed Spring Quartz jobs to run the backend jobs and generated reports.  • All the functionality is implemented using Spring IO / Spring Boot, Thymeleaf and Hibernate ORM.  • Implemented Java EE components using Spring MVC, IOC, Spring transactions and Spring security modules.  • Implementing or exposing the Micro services to base on RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Implemented the application using design patterns such as Session Facade, Singleton, and Data Access Object.  • Used GIT for continuous integration and for continuous delivery/deployment of the applications.  • Developed server-side software modules and client-side user interface components deployed entirely in Compute Cloud of Amazon web Services (AWS).  • Hands-on experience on developing AWS cloud formation templates and setting up Auto scaling for EC2 instances and involved in the automated provisioning of AWS cloud environment.  • Implemented and developed UI components using Angular JS features like dependency Injection, Models, data binding and controllers and developed test cases for Angular JS using karma and grunt.  • Created Stacks using Amazon Cloud Formation templates to launch AWS Infrastructure and resources.  • Developed Interactive web pages using HTML, CSS and JavaScript and developed various screens for the front end using Angular2.0 and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager).  • With the concept of ReactJs worked on usage metrics and end to end events tracing for analysis purpose.  • Used JMS for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information such as payment status report.  • Worked with JAXB and XML Schema for exporting data into XML format and importing data from XML format to data base and JAXB in the web service's request response data marshalling as well as unmarshalling process.  • Used PL/SQL stored procedures for applications that needed to execute as part of a scheduling mechanisms.  • Used Java Multi-threading part in back-end component, one thread will be running for each user which serves that user and multi-threading was also used to process data in chunks to improve performance.  • Utilized Hibernate for Object/Relational Mapping (ORM) purposes for persistence onto the Oracle database.  • Deployed applications into JBoss Server. Worked with Jenkins Continuous Integration tool and Build Tool Ant.  • Used Bitbucket as version management & used JUnit for unit testing of the application and log4j for logging.    Environment: Java 7.0, Spring 3, Hibernate 4.2, Spring batch/quartz/security/Jta, Spring Boot, JPA, Java Scripts, AngularJS 2.0, ReactJS, HTML 5.0, CSS3, JMS, JBoss, Eclipse, Oracle 12c, RESTful, AWS, log4j, Junit, XML, Bitbucket. Java/J2EE Developer Wipro Technologies February 2013 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various SDLC phases like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development and the project was developed using Agile based SCRUM Methodology.  • Successfully executing offshore modeling by effective and on time knowledge sharing with offshore project groups through weekly team meetings and daily status update calls.  • Developed user-friendly web-based GUI using AngularJS, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, and NodeJS.  • Implemented Struts Framework and Hibernate in the new version of the Application and used Validation framework.  • Used EJB Stateless/Stateful session beans to implement business logic, session handling, and transaction and deployed Enterprise Java Beans both Session and Entity on WebSphere Application Server.  • Implement modules into NodeJS to integrate with designs and requirements and developed real time tracking of class schedules using NodeJS. Developed the UNIX shell scripts to automate jobs.  • Used Java Messaging Service for asynchronous exchange of message by applications on different platforms.  • Extensively used Java Scripts to enforce client-side validations and used JQuery for Ajax processing.  • Involved in unit testing, troubleshooting, debugging and modifying existing programs with enhancements.  • Used JDBC to connect to backend database MySQL. Worked on Linux environment for deploying the application, running scripts for jobs. Involved in fixing bugs the bugs or defects in the application.    Environment: Jakarta Struts Framework 2.0, Core Java, Hibernate 3.0, EJB, Web Services, CSS, NodeJs, Eclipse, CVS, Apache Tomcat, JUnit, UNIX, JavaScript, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, jQuery, MySQL. Java Developer Sita Corp - IN June 2011 to January 2013 Responsibilities:  • Developed the presentation screens by using JSP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Implemented MVC architecture and developed Form classes, Action Classes for entire app using Struts Framework.  • Performed client-side validations using JavaScript and server-side validations using in built Struts Validation.  • Implemented data persistence functionality of application by using Hibernate to persist java objects to relational DB.  • Used Hibernate Annotations to reduce time at the configuration level and accessed Annotated bean from Hibernate DAO layer. Used HQL statements and procedures to fetch the data from the database.  • Transformed, Navigated and Formatted XML documents using XSL, XSLT.  • Used JMS for asynchronous exchange of message by applications on different platforms. Developed the view components using JSP, HTML, StrutsLogictags and Strutstaglibraries.  • Involved in designing and implementation of design patterns such as Session Facade, Business Delegate, Adaptor, Command, Service Locator patterns to delegate request to appropriate resources.  • Involved in developing SQL queries, stored procedures, and functions. Creation of database objects like tables, views using oracle tools like Toad, and SQL* plus. Involved in writing Stored Procedure in using PL/SQL.  • Worked on Linux environment for jobs scheduling for Inbound data on monthly basis.  • Developed JUnit test case using Mockito Framework for performing Unit testing of the application.  • Deployed application in WebSphere Application Server and developed using Rational Application Developer RAD.    Environment: Struts 2.0, Hibernate 3.0, JSP, RAD, JMS, CVS, JavaScript, XSL, XSLT, Servlets 2.5, WebSphere Application Server 6.1, Oracle 10g. Education Bachelor's Skills Java 8.0/7.0/6.0/5.0, Java/J2EE, C, C++, JDBC, DTD, UML, Design Patterns, Shell Scripts, HTML, PHP, JavaScript, SQL and PL/SQL (8 years), Spring 4.x/3.x/2.x, Hibernate 4.0/3.0, Struts 1.x/2.0. (8 years), HTML/XHTML/DHTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Servlets, JSPs, EJB, JNDI, JMS, XML (8 years), XSLT, XSD, JSF, JQuery, Ajax, AngularJS4.0/2.0/1.4, NodeJs, ReactJs, BackBoneJs, Bootstrap (8 years), Apache Tomcat 5.x/6.x/7.x/8.x, IBM WebSphere, Web Logic 9.x/10.x/12.x, J-Boss 6.x/7. x (8 years), Eclipse, NetBeans, Spring Tool suite 2.x/3.x, WSAD, RAD & Rational Rose, Intellij 14.x/15.x (8 years), Oracle 12c/11i/11g/10g/9i/8i, SQL Server, MySql, Sybase 12.5, DB2, Mongo DB and Cassandra (8 years), AXIS, SOAP, RESTful, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, WSDL, JAX-P, JAX-B. (8 years), JIRA, CVS, SVN, GitHub, Subversion and Clear Case (8 years), ANT, Log4j and Maven 3.x, Hudson 3.x, Jenkins 2.x (8 years), Junit, Jasmine, Karma, Selenium, Protractor, SOAP UI. (8 years), Windows, Unix, Linux and MAC. (8 years) Additional Information Technical skills:  Languages Java 8.0/7.0/6.0/5.0, Java/J2EE, C, C++, JDBC, DTD, UML, Design Patterns, Shell Scripts, HTML, PHP, JavaScript, SQL and PL/SQL  Frameworks Spring 4.x/3.x/2.x, Hibernate 4.0/3.0, Struts 1.x/2.0.  Web Technologies  HTML/XHTML/DHTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Servlets, JSPs, EJB, JNDI, JMS, XML, XSLT, XSD, JSF, JQuery, Ajax, AngularJS4.0/2.0/1.4, NodeJs, ReactJs, BackBoneJs, Bootstrap.    Web/App Servers Apache Tomcat 5.x/6.x/7.x/8.x, IBM WebSphere, Web Logic 9.x/10.x/12.x, J-Boss 6.x/7. x.  IDE's Eclipse, NetBeans, Spring Tool suite 2.x/3.x, WSAD, RAD & Rational Rose, Intellij 14.x/15.x  Database Oracle 12c/11i/11g/10g/9i/8i, SQL Server, MySql, Sybase 12.5, DB2, Mongo DB and Cassandra  Web Services AXIS, SOAP, RESTful, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, WSDL, JAX-P, JAX-B.  Version Control JIRA, CVS, SVN, GitHub, Subversion and Clear Case  Build Tool / plugin ANT, Log4j and Maven 3.x, Hudson 3.x, Jenkins 2.x  Testing Junit, Jasmine, Karma, Selenium, Protractor, SOAP UI.  Operating Systems Windows, Unix, Linux and MAC.