Senior Java Developer Senior <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Java Developer - Securian Financial Group Saint Paul, MN • Expertise in the implementation of Core Java SE 8 concepts like Streams API, Lambda functions, Functional programming.  • Extensive experience with Core Java concepts like Multithreading, Exception Handling and Collections.  • Expertise in using Spring frameworks for Dependency injection used spring IOC and isolating business logics with audits Spring AOP. Experience in developing and deploying Micro Services based on Spring Boot and Spring Cloud.  • Experience in Developing and publishing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using SOAP and RESTful Web services. Expertise in generating Rest service templates using the swagger specifications.  • Experience in developing User Interface with different technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript. Developed applications with AJAX for handling asynchronous calls that follows W3C Web standards.  • Good knowledge of implementing MVC architecture on client side using Angular JS, React with redux, React with flux, Backbone JS, Ext JS, knockout JS.  • Expertise in implementing MVVM architecture on client side using Angular 2.x, Angular 5.x  • Experience in developing and publishing RESTful web services using Node Js Asynchronous programming and express JS.  • Strong experience in working with Relational databases like Oracle, MySQL, Microsoft SQL Server, PostgreSQL and NoSQL databases like MongoDB, Apache Cassandra  • Great knowledge of writing PL/SQL scripts for executing more than one query at a time. Proficient in creating views for tables, writing stored procedures, writing Triggers.  • Experience in using Mongoose connectors for mapping pure java script objects to the MongoDB. Great understanding of Apache Cassandra driver for Node Js for Parallel Execution, request pipelining.  • Expertise in using Hibernate ORM, Ibatis for implementing persistence context using JPA ( Java persistence API) which is a first level cache. In Hibernate implemented second level cache using EH cache, OS cache, Swarm cache, JBoss cache. Expertise in implementing Spring JTA for transaction management and Spring JDBC to interact with Databases.  • Experience in configuring and deploying applications on different application servers like Apache Tomcat, WebLogic, IBM WebSphere, JBoss and web servers like Apache HTTP Server, Nginx, Caddy etc.  • Expertise in using Spring Cloud-Netflix OSS stack for micro services deployment and auto configurations like Ribbon for client-side Load balancing. Expertise in using Hystirix (circuit breaker) for fault tolerance and Zuul gateway for routing. Implemented the new message retry mechanism using Kafka in the event of downstream systems.  • Implemented publisher and subscriber model with queues (JMS with active MQS, IBMQ).  • Strong working knowledge on deploying the pivotal cloud foundry to deploy PAAS (Platform as a service), IAAS (Infrastructure as a service) and to run own applications.  • Good knowledge of Working on cloud Amazon Web Services (Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon simple DB, Amazon Elastic Load Balancing, Amazon SQS, Amazon EBS and Amazon cloud front)  • Used Docker Container to address every application across the hybrid cloud and Docker for better collaboration and innovation.  • Automated the deployment process by integrating code repository using build pipe line Jenkins, Bamboo and GoCD for continuous deployment.  • Great experience of working with authorization and authentication of web services using OAuth 2.0, and JWT  • Good experience with automated Java based logging frameworks like log4J, sl4J, log-common.  • Experience in using JavaScript testing frameworks like Karma, Jasmine, Protractor for Angular 2.0/4.0 and Mocha and chai for React Js and Node JS.  • Strong Experience Test Driven Development (TDD) using testing frameworks like Junit, Selenium, TestNG, Mockito, Spock, Cucumber, Powermock, MockMvc, etc.  • Experience in working with various version controlling tools like Git, SVN, Bitbuckets, TFS, CVS and different Project management tools like JIRA, Rally, Microsoft Project. Work Experience Senior Java Developer Securian Financial Group - Saint Paul, MN April 2018 to Present Description: Securian Financial Group is an insurance and investments group which helps people preserve and protect what they earn, build, own, and cherish. Keeping this promise means we are there when our customers need us most. This application enables clients to access, review and update Insurance coverages like auto, health and life online. The website functionality was extended by providing the customers to login using their policy number and perform online transactions like paying bills online and updating their insurance policy. Customer Care website was redesigned to provide customized information for the end users.    Responsibilities:  • Worked as a part of Agile Software Development Methodology including Scrum technology.  • Implemented the web application using MEAN (MongoDB, Express, Angular 5, Node.js) stack along with HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap and other web technologies.  • Developed REST services using Node-JS, Express-JS, Body-Parser, Mongoose, and other node modules to serve the web application with JSON data  • Worked with HTTP/HTTPS protocols by using Angular 5 components to build microservices in Node JS.  • Used Mongoose connector to map java script objects to MongoDB.  • Pioneered with Java8 features like Functional Interfaces, Stream API, Time API, Transaction Management, Exception Handling, Collection API and Lambda Expressions.  • Building cloud Micro services and implemented back-end using Spring Boot.  • Worked with Micro service architecture using Spring Boot to modularized code and implemented Rest API's using Spring Rest and integrated Swagger API for documentation.  • Capitalized complete annotation driven approach to develop application using spring Boot and was involved in setting up the spring bean profiling also created build and deployment scripts using Maven.  • Used Postman to test the API workflow tested on the JSON files which are generated by the NodeJS, Express JS.  • Used GIT for Version Control of code for incremental development and day-to-day basis to maintain the code history.  • Used Continuous delivery / Continuous Integration (CD/CI) tools Docker, Jenkins to deploy this application to AWS.  • Created instances for AWS EC2 and created AWS S3 buckets to monitor the access to the hosted files.  • Implemented a Robust Restful (JAX-RS) Jersey web Services using Spring Boot to modularize code and automated documentation to the web services in the application is provided by Swagger 2.0  • Experience in Docker Engine and Docker Machine environment, to deploy the micro services-oriented environments for scalable application,  • Created a new cluster and container management tool using Kubernetes for Zero downtime Deployment.  • Used Netflix OSS to allow application to change its properties Dynamically after the deployment  • Worked with Netflix OSS Eureka service in spring cloud for service registration and discovery and spring config for centralized configuration and used ribbon for client-side load balancing.  • Worked with Zuul Api gateway for Authentication and hystrix circuit breaker for fault tolerance. Created various docker images from the docker containers and published these images in the Docker hub repository.  • User authentication is done through JSON Web Tokens (JWT).  • Tested Angular 5 with Jasmine unit testing framework and karma as test runner.  • Developed the functionalities under Agile Methodology, JIRA processes and used JIRA for task assignment, bug tracking and fixture.    Environment: HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Angular5, NodeJS, ExpressJS, NPM, Spring Boot, Spring Rest, Maven, JWT, JIRA, GIT, GitHub, Netflix OSS, Spring Cloud, HTTP/HTTPS, Jasmine, karma, AWS EC2, AWS S3, postman, Kubernetes, Swagger, API, Agile Methodology, Mongoose ORM, MongoDB, Docker. Java Full Stack Developer Costco Wholesale Corporation March 2017 to April 2018 Description: Costco is a membership warehouse club, dedicated to bringing our members the best possible prices on quality brand-name merchandise. With hundreds of locations worldwide, Costco provides a wide selection of merchandise, plus the convenience of specialty departments and exclusive member services, all designed to make your shopping experience a pleasurable one.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the creation of UI specification documents by interacting with business users and design documentation and data modelling for the entire project.  • Expertise in using React JS/Redux to build User Interface, strong knowledge of state store, middleware, action creator, reducer and container.  • Developed user interface by using the React JS, Redux for SPA development and implemented client-side Interface using React JS.  • Written several Axios service calls like GET and POST to make REST service calls.  • Implemented Virtual Dom for Client-Side view rendering services using React JS.  • Proficient in writing react code with help of ECMAScript (ES6).  • Written calls using FETCH API for fetching JSON data.  • Implemented platform modules through spring Java micro and Node.js services by employing Hapi.js, as well as front-end React JS.  • Used complete annotation driven approach to develop the application using Spring Boot and was involved in setting up the Spring bean profiling.  • Worked with Spring Boot for automatic configuration and starter for Maven configuration and performed metrics and externalized configuration  • Developed RESTFUL web services using Spring Boot and Apace CXF framework.  • Building cloud Microservices and implemented back-end using Spring Boot.  • Worked with Microservice architecture using Spring Boot to modularized code and implemented Rest API's using Spring Rest and integrated Swagger API for documentation.  • Worked with JAVA8 features like Functional Interfaces, Stream API for Bulk Data Operations, Time API, Transaction Management, Concurrency API, Collection API, Calendar API.  • Deployed our Application on Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF) which is used to reduce the development overhead by providing a ready to use platform  • Deployed and Monitored Micro Services Using Spring Cloud Foundry Managed Domains and Routes with the Spring Cloud Service Registry.  • Deployed and Monitored Micro Services Using Spring Cloud Foundry Managed Domains and Routes with the Spring Cloud Service Registry.  • Implemented Spring Netflix Zuul API gateway and Eureka service registry for reverse proxy and Dynamic service discovery of API's.  • Implemented Netflix OSS (Open Source Software) for Feasible changes after the deployment.  • Implemented Spring Circuit breaker pattern, integrated Hystrix dashboard to monitor Spring microservices.  • Implemented NoSQL database like Cassandra to (store key values), for data analytics which is used as a Database for this project.  • Maintaining and troubleshooting Cassandra Clusters this includes monitoring and performing troubleshooting as per requirements  • Worked on Docker hub, creating Docker images and handling multiple images primarily for middleware installations and domain configurations.  • Used Kubernetes to create new cluster and container management tool.  • Used Continuous delivery / Continuous Integration (CD/CI) tools Docker and Jenkins to deploy this application.  • Implemented a metrics collection mechanism for the server by utilizing Apache Kafka to stream server-side events.  • Used Apache Kafka in cluster as messaging system between the APIs and microservices and worked on Splunk search processing language (SPL) queries, reports, dashboard and logging using Log4J.  • Project code build is done using MAVEN tool.  • Worked with Web pack for bundling application source code in convenient chunks and for loading that code from a server into a browser  • Adopted JMS API to setup mail notification upon the success or failure when the backend processes are completed and to send mail notifications regarding any system related problems.  • Used Splunk to create charts for the log data and analyze log data to know customer expectations.  • Authenticating Users and to provide the security to RESTful web services using OAUTH2.0  • Tested REACT code on client side with CHAI testing framework and MOCHA as test runner.    Environment: React JS, Redux, Hapi JS, Node JS, Web pack, ECMA6, Mocha and Chai, Spring Boot, Spring cloud like Ribbon, Hystrix, Netflix ZUUL, Micro services architecture, Docker, Jenkins, Cassandra DB, OAUTH, Apache Kafka, Splunk, PCF, Swagger, Webpack, JMS, Maven. Senior Java Developer Connexions Loyality - Richmond, VA March 2016 to February 2017 Description: The objective of Company is to have a framework in place for the organization, which allows the business users to add new customer configurations, customer product catalog, excluded product details list etc. without depending on the development team.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in SDLC requirements gathering, analysis, design, development and testing of application developed using Agile methodology for building Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  • Involved in developing user interface with HTML5, CSS3, SAAS, JSON.  • Used AngularJS to create views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data with server as a Single Page Applications (SPA).  • Extensively used $http from Angular JS service to make AJAX calls and consume JSON response across numerous services.  • Worked on Angular JS expressions and built-in directives to render functionality to the UI and jQuery for DOM manipulation and two-way binding.  • Used Spring MVC and Dependency Injection for handling presentation and business logic. Dependency Injection for managing the components and bean life cycle is achieved in the application using Spring IOC.  • Integrated Spring DAO for data access using Hibernate and handled Transaction Management using the provided data. Responsible for designing Hibernate mapping files based on business logic and Object relationships.  • Integrated Spring and Hibernate together and worked on developing backend components and services.  • Spring Batch was used for processing large volumes of records, including logging/tracing, job processing statistics, job restart, skip, transaction management and resource management in the application using Quartz Scheduler.  • Used Spring Security for Authentication and Authorization of the application.  • Implemented REST API's using Spring Rest and documented Spring RESTful APIs with Swagger to help customers better understand APIs.  • Designed new queries in app to enhance MySQL database performance. Developed stored procedures, triggers in MySQL for lowering traffic between servers & clients.  • Designed, configured and deployed Amazon Web Services (AWS) for a multitude of applications utilizing the AWS stack (Including EC2, S3), focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling. Configured AWS EC2 instances, domain mapping via Route53.  • Automated the deployment process by integrating code repository using build pipe line Jenkins for continuous deployment.  • Implemented the function to send and receive AMQP messages on RabbitMQ synchronously and asynchronously.  • Developed test driven development code using JUnit and Mockito framework.  • Performed Integration testing using Selenium.    Environment: Spring MVC, Spring Batch, Spring Security, Spring REST, Spring IOC, Hibernate, Angular JS, AJAX, HTML, CSS, JSON, Junit, Mockito, Selenium, Cucumber, MySQL 5.6, AWS, RabbitMQ, SOA architecture Java Full Stack Developer Myntra - Bengaluru, Karnataka May 2014 to February 2016 Description: Myntra is an Indian fashion e-commerce company headquartered in Bangalore, Karnataka, India. Myntra maintains a web and mobile application which helps customer to create accounts, buy products online. The responsibilities in this project was to maintain the application available and to meet the demands of the customers.    Responsibilities:  • Used Backbone JS to utilize its rendering functions and create controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.  • Created responsive UI modules using Backbone JS with hard coded dependency of Underscore JS in combination with Handlebar JS for templating.  • Defined and developed the application's presentation layer using HTML, CSS, and jQuery. Used jQuery for creating different menus and dialog boxes and used different jQuery plugins for calendar, calculator, and printing options.  • Implemented various cross-project functionalities using Spring AOP and implemented transaction management using Spring AOP and used Spring Aspects for implementing logging functionalities.  • Implemented Web service calls using SOAP (JAX-WS frameworks) to provide significant pre-build extensibility in the form of the WS* standards.  • Created WSDL (Web Services Description Language) document for client application web services. Developed SOAP web services (JAX-WS) for sending and getting data from different applications WSDL generation and exposed the service at server-side over the Internet  • Implemented persistence layer with iBATIS ORM.  • Extensively involved in writing code by using Java Collections like LinkedList, Queues, HashSet and etc., Worked on the Java Collections API for handling the data objects between the business layers and the front end.  • Involved in writing Multi-Threading Synchronization concepts in Java.  • Developed back-end PL/SQL packages, UNIX shell scripts for data migration and batch processing.  • Created and customized UNIX shell scripts for automating regular maintenance and batch jobs.  • Used ANT for automated build and deployment on IBM WebSphere.  Environment: HTML, CSS, Backbone JS, Handlebar JS, jQuery, IBM WebSphere, Spring AOP, Java Collections, Multi-Threading, UNIX, iBATIS, SOAP Junior Java Developer Mysore Bank - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2012 to April 2014 Description: Mysore Bank is an Indian banking and financial services company. This is in house application portal and an Internet Banking product, designed and developed using Struts and J2EE to meet the demands of the Bank customer for transactions through Internet. In this we have integrated online services and made it is a powerful platform for business owners and customers.    Responsibilities:  • Developed application based on Model View Controller (MVC) architecture.  • Implemented forms and action classes for the application using EJB and Struts Framework.  • Developed EJB deployment descriptor using XML and used JAXB components for transferring the objects between the application and the database.  • Functionalities like auto completion of forms and user validation are implemented using jQuery.  • Used Multithreading concept to post data from files to tables involving transformation of file from one format to another.  • Developed dynamic web pages using JSP and used Struts Validation framework to perform input validation.  • Configured Struts-config.xml, Tiles-def.xml and various properties files provided by Struts Framework for the implementation module.  • Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural pattern using STRUTS 2.x framework.  • Implemented POJO based action by STRUTS and also utilized various Tag Support given by the STRUTS 2.x.  • Implemented interceptor which is invoke at preprocessing and post processing of a request in STRUTS 2.x.  • Implemented OGNL (Object Graph Navigation Language) of STRUTS 2.x to simplify the accessibility of data stored in the ActionContext.  • Build PL\SQL functions, stored procedures, views and configured Oracle Database 10g with JDBC data source with connection pooling enabled.  • Performance tuning of JVM heap size, garbage collections, java stack and Native thread & production performance.  • Used Subversion (SVN) for maintaining current and historical versions of source code, web pages and documentation.  • Used Clear Case for source code maintenance.  • Developed Ant scripts and developed builds using Apache ANT.  • Used Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.    Environment: Java/J2EE, EJB, Servlets, JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JBoss, Subversion (SVN), Oracle, SQL Developer, JDBC, Struts 2.0 framework. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science and Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills Java J2Ee, Hibernate, Java, Spring