AEM Developer AEM <span class="hl">Developer</span> AEM Developer - Indecomm Global Services Baltimore, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience AEM Developer Indecomm Global Services - Edison, NJ March 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Understanding the business requirements and converting them to system specific AEM technical requirements.  • Configured replication and dispatcher flush.  • Worked on CQ5 Forms customization by developing the custom form fields, writing the custom constraints for form fields and specifying the global validation resource type at the form level.  • Implemented Sling servlets to provide Ajax handling.  • End to end Portal development based on wire frames/mock ups.  • Developed custom widgets using Ext JS based on the requirement.  • Have a complete understanding of CRX as a repository and accessing the CRX content nodes by SQL Queries and XPath.  • Knowledge and demonstrated experience with cross-browser and cross-platform issues (IE, Firefox, Chrome.  • Utilized HTML, CSS, JQuery and ExtJS for designing and implementing custom CQ components  • Implemented CQ Preview Site for pre-publishing authored content to test the Prod Simulation.  • Ability to write complex programs, analyze code changes and make suggestions to improve code complexity for maintainability and scalability.  • Created features including Single Sign On with existing client website and a REST API to expose manipulation functionality to external clients using AngularJS.  • Created web-services both RESTful and SOAP based from scratch.  • Provided estimates and designs for templates, components and workflows. Setup and configure Authoring and Publishing environments, replication agents, dispatcher to cache the landing pages' html and serve as the static pages from Apache.  • Developed HTL(Sightly) templates and Components like complex Image Text Component which can be reused for multiple purposes, Dynamic List Component, Top Navigation for the site which supports both desktops and mobile.  • Worked on Custom OSGI services, workflows, scheduler jobs development.  • GIT is used as a distributed revision control system for CQ5. File vault in conjunction with GIT helps to pull or push the code to developer's machine.  • Extensively designed and developed custom ExtJs components and custom Xtypes (especially data grids).  • Implemented i18n internationalization in the website.  • Worked on Integrating with Adobe Site Catalyst  • Developed GET/POST sling servlets to provide various services in the CQ system  • Customized error handling for the different server related errors and their respective error messages (403, 404 and 500 errors codes).    Environment: AEM WCM, AEM DAM, CQ, Workflows, Apache Sling, CRXDE, CRX, HTML, JSP, Servlets, Java Scripts, JQuery, Eclipse IDE, Apache Maven, kafka, spark, JIRA, REST Web Services, Bootstrap, Adobe Dreamweaver, Twitter bootstrap, Adobe Photoshop, NoSQL, Jackrabbit OAK, JCR Connector. Sr. AEM Developer New York Life Insurance, NJ January 2016 to February 2017 Responsibilities:  • Creating servlets for backend services like forms, populating the policy holder's information from the services  • Designed and developed, CQ5 building blocks including templates, reusable components, dialogs, widgets, workflows in AEM 6.0,6.1,6.2.  • Worked on Multi Site Manager(MSM) in AEM to control over blueprints and live copies and work on rollout configurations.  • Worked on Projects and Specialized Membership on CMS side from scratch. Developed the components and services to generate JSON.  • Strong knowledge and experience in integration with components of Adobe Marketing Cloud (including Adobe Target, Adobe Scene7, Adobe Analytics, and Campaign) and Adobe Social  • Creating components, templates, dialogs, client libs etc.  • Created components using Sightly HTML template language by replacing the traditional JSP.  • Used sightly in AEM 6.2 for highlighting is focus on keeping your markup beautiful, and thus maintainable, once made dynamic.  • Developed Servlets to handle requests from the client in an OSGi bundle.  • Involved in content migration from AEM 5.6.1 to AEM 6.0 and 6.0 to 6.1 Implemented Image renditions for continuous and consistent experience of content across all devices.  • Converted AEM Classic UI components to touch UI and developed components using Touch UI.  • Used sling resource merger concept to overlay the foundation page to add multiple custom properties to the page.  • Wrote WCMPOJO classes to integrate with HTL components.  • Experience with creating "Editable template" in AEM 6.3.  • Created a dynamic component based on the JCR structure and taxonomy levels  • Experience Developing service in Events that gives JSON output for the events status & time  • Using Maven to build and generate the jar files to deploy in the Felix Console  • Developed Custom workflows and Launchers to perform custom functionalities based on the requirements using the workflow API  • Configured log files, audit files for troubleshooting AEM.  • Extensive use of CQ Tag Libraries in the components  • Created/Modified custom widgets in Adobe CQ5.  • Client-side implementation were done in JSP, JQuery, AJAX and JavaScript environment, whereas the implementation of business logic part were done using core Java, servlets, filters and Restful services.  • Logged the application using log4j for easier debug and maintenance.  • Used GIT as version control to restore assets to previous versions later and integrated with Jenkins for continuous integration and builds  • Used Smartling, XMT connector for translating the MSM into Multiple Country Languages.    Environment: AEM5.6.0, 6.1, Adobe CQ5, Adobe live cycle, JAVA, J2EE, OSGI, Spring Integration, HIBERNATE, MYSQL, AJAX, JSON, HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, JQuery, SQL, Spring boot, Jenkins, Maven, SOAP UI, XPath, XML, LINUX, JSP, Web Services (SOAP, REST), Eclipse, GIT, Apache Tomcat, Apache Filex, Agile, SCRUM, XDP, Akamai, JIRA, Apache SOLR, LDAP. Java/J2EE Developer Forsyth, WI November 2013 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application: Requirement gathering, Design Analysis and Code development.  • Implemented Struts framework based on the Model View Controller design paradigm.  • Designed the application by implementing Struts based on MVC Architecture, simple Java Beans as a Model, JSP UI Components as View and Action Servlet as a Controller.  • Used JNDI to perform lookup services for the various components of the system.  • Created branches and managed the source code for various applications in GIT.  • Involved in designing and developing dynamic web pages using HTML and JSP with Struts tag libraries.  • Responsible for designing Rich user Interface Applications using JavaScript, CSS, HTML and AJAX and developed web services by using SOAP UI.  • Implemented modules using Java APIs, Java collection, Threads, XML, and integrating the modules.  • Applied J2EE Design Patterns such as Factory, Singleton, and Business delegate, DAO, Front Controller Pattern and MVC.  • Developed Web interface using JSP, Standard Tag Libraries (JSTL), and Spring Framework.  • Used JDBC as MVC framework for designing the complete Web tier.  • Used Web services (SOAP) for transmission of large blocks of XML data over HTTP.  • Validated the user input using Spring Validation Framework.  • Implemented the mechanism of logging and debugging with Log4j.  • Designed generic database Connection Pooling with JDBC using Oracle and in the SQL query optimization.  • Developed test cases for Unit testing and performed integration and system testing.  • Created sequence diagrams, collaboration diagrams, class diagrams, use cases and activity diagrams using Rational Rose for the Configuration, Cache & logging Services.  • Developed the application using Struts Framework to implement a MVC design approach  • Used JDBC for data access from Oracle tables.    Environment: JSP 1.2, Servlets, Struts1.2.x, JMS, EJB 2.1, Java, OOPS, Spring, Hibernate, JavaScript, Ajax, Html, CSS, JDBC, JMS, Eclipse, WebSphere, DB2, JPA, ANT. Java Developer Attune - IN August 2011 to October 2013 Responsibilities:  • Implemented MVC using Struts Framework  • Developed JSP's, Servlets for the Presentation layer  • Developed Helper classes, Java Business Objects using EJB, Action classes.  • Developed the Session Beans (EJB) for the Business logic  • Prepare the Unit test and system integration test cases.  • Designed and developed carrier selection and product selection web pages using HTML, Servlets and JavaScript  • Developed coding for client-side interactions of web pages in JSP and HTML  • Developed Servlets to retrieve contents from Database and to have healthy transaction of data on the web application  • Configured MySQL connection pool, which is included in MYSQL JDBC driver JAR file, to allow concurrent access to the database and optimize performance  • Designed and Developed using Java/J2EE, Web Services, Struts, XML, AJAX and Deployed on Web Sphere Application Server running on Unix  • Involved in analysis and design phase of Software Development Life cycle (SDLC)    Environment: Windows NT, Java, Struts Framework, JSP, Servlets, EJB, XML, XSLT, CSS, Java Script, Oracle8i, SQL, PL/SQL, WebSphere 5.1, Eclipse, CVS, ANT. UI Developer Tech Fort June 2010 to July 2011 Responsibilities:  • Rebuild the existing web, products list form, and shopping cart form using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, and Bootstrap.  • Develop SPA elements using MVC architecture and AngularJS  • Consume RESTful API to fetch products JSON data from backend  • Share and transfer JSON data between different UI controllers using AngularJS service  • Implement AngularJS service that contain common functions to inject into controller  • Create AngularJS custom directives for heavy DOM manipulation and code reuse  • Implemented various Validation Controls for form validation and implemented custom validation controls with JavaScript validation controls  • Implemented AJAX to speed up web application  • Developed components to fetch the data from the back end using AJAX and JSON  • Made enhancements to existing CSS and DIV tags, made upgrades using Twitter Bootstrap model.  • Created student portal shows all the details about the student  • Validated web forms through JavaScript and jQuery  • Expertise in designing and developing webpages according to the requirement  • Development of web forms for client-server interaction using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript  • Involved in Restful web services to call for POST, PUT, DELETE and GET methods  • Involved in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  Environment: Angular JS, RWD, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, XML, AJAX, JSON, JQuery, OOPS, Web storm, SQL Server, Web services, Jasmine, Unit Test, GIT, Agile. Education Master's University of Central Missouri Skills AJAX (7 years), HTML (7 years), SQL (7 years), XML (6 years), ECLIPSE (6 years), AEM, Hadoop, Drupal, Cobol, Java Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Operating Systems Windows Family, Mac OS, UNIX/LINUX, Solaris 11.1  Versioning Tools Subversion, CVS, Clear Case, Git, Bit Bucket, Git Lab.  Technologies  Technologies Adobe Campaign, CMS Adobe CQ5/AEM, JCR, Sling, Apache Jack Rabbit, WCM, DAM, Package Manager, CRXDE-Lite, Workflow, OSGI    Build Tools Ant, Maven, Jenkins, Hudson  IDE Eclipse, CRXDE, CRXDE Lite, Java Beans, Brackets.  Languages C, Java/J2EE, SQL, JSP, Servlets, JCR, HTL (Sightly)  SDLC Methodology Waterfall, Agile, SCRUM  Design Patterns MVC, Front Controller, Singleton pattern, Factory  Web Technologies HTML, Java Script, XML, Servlets, JDBC, JSP, Ajax, JQuery, Angular js, JSON  Web Servers WebLogic, WebSphere, JBoss, Tomcat, Apache, Nginx, HTTP  Content Management System Adobe CQ5.5, Adobe AEM [ ] OSGI, AEM, JCR, Apache Jackrabbit.  Database Oracle, DB2, SQL Server, MySQL, MongoDB  Frameworks JCR, OSGi, Apache Sling, Apache Felix