Android Developer Android <span class="hl">Developer</span> Android Developer - SapientNitro Miami, FL • Over 8 years of Software Design and Development Experience in Java based applications, smartphone and tablet development experience. Developed and architected multiple Android applications across versions. I have a good understanding of Android Back-end and UI guidelines.  • Extensively worked on almost every stage of application development life cycle,right from collecting requirements, providing guidelines for design, creating application architecture, implementation that includes various stages in development, QA, signing and releasing to market.  • Experience in developing Hybrid applications.  • Experience in Agile Software Development process and Scrum.  • Expertise in developing apps using SQLite, Java, XML, Angular JS and HTML5.  • Have developed applications using latest applications such as UniversalImageLoader and RecylcerView.  • Expertise in Object Oriented Architecture, Design and Programming from design to implementation.  • Experienced with Git and other source control management.  • Expertise in developing applications using Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate and JSP.  • Have hands on experience in complete project life cycle, with domain knowledge in Mobile Application Development and Web application development.  • Have experience working with web-server protocols such as JSON, HTTP, Phonegap and XML.  • Implemented web service using Rest webservices.  • Experience working with Google Maps APIs, In-App Purchases, In-App advertising, Geocoder API, Ticketmaster, Geolocations, PayPal, Google Analytics.  • Implemented native libraries in applications using NDK  • Strong knowledge of Android basic component i.e. Activity, Fragment, Service, Broadcast Receiver and Content Provider.  • Automated build process using Jenkins.  • Exposure in cloud integration like Google Drive, Dropbox & Box with android application.  • Knowledge of Objective-C for IOS Application development.  • Experience on JavaScript and PHP client-server side development.  • Good communication skills: Have interacted with clients regularly during development of the mobile applications.  • Good exposure in troubleshooting and debugging android applications.  • Ability to coordinate with various team members involved in the project.  • Quick learner and always curious to learn new skill or a new technology. Work Experience Android Developer SapientNitro - Miami, FL August 2015 to Present Project: Miami Heat    Description:  Miami Heat is a leading basketball team under the NBA. Its the first basketball team to have a mobile application of its own. The application has various modules. It has unique features like live-streaming, radio, news updates, in app tickets and social profile integration.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in MDM (Mobile Device Management), responsable for all the stages from requirement gathering, development and testing.  • Used GIT-hubfor version control and SourceTree for code management.  • Worked with Atlassin tools like JIRA, BITUCKET and CONFLUENCE  • Used GIGYA SDK for social integration.  • Used PAYPAL provided SDK for MOBILE PAYEMNTS.  • REST webservices were implemented with JSON data.  • Used HTML5, CSS, Java script, Angular JS to develop hybrid apps.  • Designed different modules to change with the Geolocations.  • Implemented wayfinding feature using bluetooth.  • Implemented push notification using cloud services including azure and amazon.  • Used Ticketmaster SDK for ticket features.  • Created custom views and webviews for Custom UI clases.  • AsyncTask, Services and ThreadPoolExecuter were used for mulit-threading to implement parallel processing.  • Implemented Gradle plugin.  • Implemented Unit Testing and Instrumentation testing.  • Upgraded application layout to support Android 6.0 Marshmallow.  • SQLite database was used for storing content.  • Experience in agile software development process and scrum.  • Experience in implementing native libraries in application by using Android NDK(C/C++).  • Used JUnit, Robotium for unit and instrumentation testing.  • Implemented Build automationusing Jenkins.  • Used Tridion for CMS (Control Management System).  Environment: Android SDK, Google API's, Web view, GPS service, NDK (C/C++), JSON, New Relic, Gradle, Tridion, Ticketmaster, Angular JS, Jenkins, GSON, Hockeyapp, Robotium, Log cat, Eclipse ADT. Android Developer Honeywell - Morristown, NJ September 2014 to August 2015 Description:  HTS is an integral technology development and engineering arm of Honeywell, providing technology, product and business solutions meeting global standards in quality, innovation and lifetime performance. HTS has centers in India, China and Czech Republic and works on almost all Honeywell products right from conception to technology development and insertion, design, engineering, and delivery.  Responsibilities:    • Highly involved in MDM (designing, development, and testing).  • Developed and designed modular User Interface using fragments.  • Implemented Model-View-Presenter design pattern.  • Experience in implementing native libraries in application by using Android NDK(C/C++).  • Implemented dependency injection using Dagger.  • Implemented Android Bluetooth API.  • Consumed REST based web services with JSON and Angular JS.  • Used multi-threading to implement parallel processing using AsyncTask, Services, Job-Scheduler, ThreadPoolExecutor.  • Upgraded the application layout to support Android 5.0 Lollipop.  • Created supporting Home Screen Widgets to display specials based on users Preferences.  • Implemented push notification using Cloud services including Parse and Amazon.  • Implemented SQLite database structure to handle the content and contact list.  • Implemented Gradle plugin.  • Worked with Storyboards in Android to implement view layouts.  • Created custom UI classes for corresponding Xib files.  • Developed unit test and instrumentation test to automate the testing.  • Experience in agile software development process and scrum.  • Utilized different resources like views, activities, fragments, frame, animations, etc.  • Used JUnit, Mockito and Android Espresso for unit and instrumentationtesting.  Environment: Android SDK, Google API's, Web view, GPS service, Angular JS, JSON, NDK(C/C++), Gradle, Mockito, SQLite, Dagger. Android Developer DIRECTV - Los Angeles, CA January 2013 to March 2014 Description:  DIRECTV are defining the best TV experience of the world through an attractive mix of content, technology and service. They have contributed to the evolution of digital television with our programming, interactive features, services digital recording (DVR), superior customer service and an electronic program guide.    Responsibilities:  • Documented the requirements and there by analyzed and involved in design, code.  • Worked with the Android SDK, and implemented Android Bluetooth and Location Connectivity components.  • Used SQLite to save user details, their plans and eligible devices for upgrade.  • Used Android content providers for implementing features like sending E-mails, SMS, etc. from the app and designed GUIs for these applications.  • Analysis of mobile application code for re-engineering.  • Responsible for design of user interface using various custom layouts, buttons, dialog boxes, alert boxes and different form of widgets.  • Inserted suitable code to capture the various button and text field events and implemented the desired action for each of the widgets.  • Used web views, list views & populated lists to display the lists from database using simple adapters.  • Used services, Async tasks and Alert Notification API to implement event reminder feature into the mobile app.  • Used sync adapters to load changed data from server and to send modified data to server from app.  • Involved in working with Location Manager and Restful Web service with JSON.  • Used Node.js to install phone Gap and used HTML5, CSS, Java script to develop hybrid apps.  • Used PhoneGap APIs like Notification, Camera, Media, Vibration to develop hybrid Apps.  • Used PhoneGap Device Object to access information about a device and application running a phone gap application.  • Analysis of mobile application code for re-engineering.  • Implemented unique design for portrait and landscape mode.  • Also worked with the web application development team to ensure proper integration between mobile application and web application.  • Developing EJB classes and also corresponding session bean classes.  • Configured JMS and Data sources on web logic 10.1 Server and provided appropriate JNDI names for them.  • Developed complex queries, PL/SQL and stored procedures for data retrieval & updating.  • Used IBM Rational Clear case for Version Controlling.  • Experience in agile software development process and scrum.  • Experience in implementing native libraries in application by using Android NDK(C/C++).  • Performed Unit Testing and interacted with QA for testing.  • Worked on signature capture device Ingenico isc6580, developed new icg forms for sig cap devices.  Environment: Android SDK, Google API's, Web view, GPS service, JSON, NDK(C/C++), HTML5, CSS, EJB, IBM Rational Class, Ingenico, Mockito, SQLite, Dagger. Android Developer Caterpillar - Peoria, IL March 2012 to December 2012 Description:  CAT Sales app is designed for Caterpillar and its Dealer Sales personnel who have CWS login access. This app provides sales representatives access to the marketing material to be sent to their customers and potential customers.    Responsibilities:  • Worked in different phases of development cycle. Expanding the existing design, development of new features, testing and deployment.  • Involved in requirement gathering, UI design and development.  • Writing application logic and business logic for the application.  • Designed the architecture and user interface using client requirement and use cases.  • Implemented screen navigation using dialog boxes, action bar navigation control and designed menus based on user context.  • Involved in designing the logical flow for the application for different components.  • Developed app screen and its workflow using Activities and Fragments which has views such as list view and scroll view.  • Integrated the camera features using the Camera API.  • Integrated the Google Map using Google location based API.  • Analyzing the application with Trace view tool to improve the performance.  • Analyzing the layout with Hierarchy viewer.  • Implementing Broadcast receiver for android.  • Test and error logging on different version and devices of Android.  • Implemented and error reporting system for future development support.  • Conducted knowledge transfer sessions to junior developers.  • Version control using Git-Hub.  • Provided the support as part of post implementation support.  • Point of contact for any critical issues.  • Used HP-Quality Center for Defect tracking and involved in creating the document listing the open and critical defects.  • Provided full support to Browser testing team to fully automate the manual scripts using Selenium Testing Framework.  • Provided the KT to the testing team on android framework.    Environment: Android SDK, Google API's, Web view, GPS service, JSON, Google Maps, Broadcast receivers, Git-Hub, SQLite. Android Developer New York, NY April 2011 to February 2012 Description: After a few successful launches of HBO Phone project HBO finally decided to extend the application support to Tablet devices as well. The application did receive tremendous response after launch. HBO GO was released as a universal application that supports both phone and Tablets. The views would differ a bit for 7 inch and 10 inch tablets which includes Kindle Fire. The application was released on Amazon App Store as well.    Responsibilities:  • Designed screens related to Categories and Detail description for Tablet for both 7 inch and 10 inch devices by customizing views as per mockup. Created Master-Detail Interface for tablet implementation.  • Worked in all phases of the project including design, development, testing and deployment  • Updated backend validations to meet tablet specific requirements  • Added parser classes for Tablet which involved parsing JSON feeds  • Worked with the UI team to design the appropriate icon and display for the screens  • Used application components such as Activities, Services, Content Providers and Broadcast Receivers along with their life-cycles to define the applications overall behavior.  • Had interactions with HBO team on daily progress, project updates and questions if any.  • Implemented data caching mechanism  • Added Facebook and twitter related API's  • Provided subsequent releases which included feature changes, enhancements and bug fixes Java Developer EBay - San Francisco, CA December 2009 to January 2011 Description:EBay Inc. is an American multinational corporation and e-commerce company, providing consumer to consumer & business to consumer sales services via Internet. It is headquartered in San Jose, California.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirement gathering, UI design and development  • Integrated location based services using Google Maps API to display locations of the nearest hospital or urgent health care provider  • Handling XML data using efficient parsing techniques such as DOM parser  Used SQLite to save user healthcare preferences, insurance information and optional medication history to refine the search.  • Used a two Step Authentication process to the application.  • Integrated the app with maps for locating nearest pharmacies.  • Used Location Services like GPS to find user zip code for better search result.  • Creating and implementing classes for the interactions with the SQLite database.  • Creating and implementing custom views and adapters for the need of the different application features.  • Applied Style/Theme for good better UI.  • Optimized and did the QA of the application before and after deployment.  • Day to day communication with client and rest of the team.  • Implemented the search feature based on location and first three numbers on the users insurance ID card.  • Used Android features such as, Loader Manager, Content Provider, Resolver, Observer, Default Receiver, Broadcast Receiver, Android Service, Handler, AsyncTask  • Used Android content providers for implementing features like sending E-mails, SMS, etc. from the app and designed GUIs for these applications  • Worked closely with the testing team Java Developer AG InfoTech - Bangalore, Karnataka September 2008 to April 2009 Description:TMWM is a customer loyalty program for a travel portal. This allows users to book their travel online. The application has three modules, Customer, Catalog, Data Entry operator and Admin. This application rewards customers with loyalty points when they book their tickets online. Points depend on the distance the customer travels. The Customer module allows customers to register themselves with the program. Each booking earns them points. Depending on the number of points earned the customer belongs to various groups. There are a total of three levels, Silver, Gold and Platinum; Silver being the lowest and platinum being the highest. Customers can choose to carry forward their points and become eligible for upgrades.    Responsibilities:  • Participated in requirements gathering from the end users.  • Designed and developed business logic layer and data access layer.  • Programed methods for FAQs/Support, help, contact and general information pages.  • The present system was studied in order to have a better understanding of its functionality.  • JSP and Java Script were used to develop user interface.  • Business logic was developed using EJB (Enterprise JavaBeans) and DAO's were developed to perfume operations on the database.  • Web service based on SOAP (Simple Object Access Protocol) to use services provided by IBM Content Manager.  • JUnit was used for unit testing.  • For version control SVN (Apache Subversion).  • Tested application with unit testing, manual testing and writing test classes.  • Used agile methodology for development and was present in daily stand up meetings and weekly team meeting. Also attended bi-weekly spring planning meeting.  • Effectively participated in communications with Business Analysts and architects. Education Bachelor in Computer Information System Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh Skills Android SDK, Google API's, Web view, GPS service, NDK (C/C++), JSON, New Relic,Gradle, Tridion, Ticketmaster,Angular JS, Jenkins, GSON, Hockeyapp, Robotium, Log cat,Eclipse ADT, HTML5, CSS, EJB, IBM Rational Class, Ingenico, Mockito, SQLite, Dagger, Android SDK, Google API's, Web view, GPS service, NDK (C/C++), JSON, New Relic,Gradle, Tridion, Ticketmaster,Angular JS, Jenkins, GSON, Hockeyapp, Robotium, Log cat,Eclipse ADT, HTML5, CSS, EJB, IBM Rational Class, Ingenico, Mockito, SQLite, Dagger Additional Information Skill Set    OS Windows 8/7/Vista/XP, Mac, Android, Ubuntu and Kali.  Languages JAVA, C, C++, Objective-C, Python, JSON, JQuery and JavaScript.  Markup Language HTML/CSS, HTML5 and XML.  Development Tools Android Studio, Eclipse-Luna, NetBeans, Xcode, MS Visual Studio, Aptana.  Databases Mongo DB, SQLite, SQL, ORMLite, MS- Access.  Frameworks JDK, Android SDK, Phone gap, Spring, LiveChat, Urban Airship, Google Analytics.  Virtual Software Genymotion, VMware workstation, Oracle Virtual box.  Web Servers Tomcat 6.0, WAMP & Apache HTTP Server.  Mainframes IBM z/VM  Other Tools/Software Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Alice, 3Ds Max, Notepad++, MS Office.