Banquet Manager Banquet Manager Banquet Manager - Oaktree Management IT professional experience with 2+ years of strong software in design, Web Development in developing user interfaces. I use my knowledge of Java programming to write easily readable codes, maintain database and write efficient algorithms. Work Experience Banquet Manager Oaktree Management - Belleville, IL July 2014 to Present Responsible for training, maintaining, and running the banquet department, custodial, and sales departments. The most important traits to our success are efficiency, effectiveness, "smile", and unobtrusiveness. Java Developer (Full Stack Developer) SWIC - Belleville, IL January 2017 to December 2017 • Responsible for completing weekly assignments. Learning and then implementing coding skills into advanced algorithms for projects. Creating final game project linked to database.  • Written SQL Queries to communicate with the Oracle Database  • Performed exception handling to solve many issues in the application Education Computer Science Saint Louis University - Belleville, IL January 2017 to December 2017 Skills Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Stored procedures, Eclipse, Java, Java technologies, Visual basic, Algorithms, Translate, Team player Additional Information SKILLS  • Experience in developing server and web application using JAVA technologies and web technologies for applications.  • Extensive experience in developing JAVA based applications using ORACLE  • Ability to efficiently translate algorithms, ideas and concepts of software applications.  • Comprehensive knowledge in databases like MySQL, SQL Server and stored procedures.  • Hands on experience in working with Visual Basic,  • Worked Proficiently with various IDEs including Eclipse, MyEclipse and Netbeans.  • Very much comfortable in analyzing, debugging, troubleshooting and solving problems and issues in application.  • Initiative in providing value addition solution to enhance business and infrastructure capabilities.  • Versatile team player with good interpersonal skills, commitment, result oriented, hardworking, passionate to learn trending technologies and take on challenging tasks.  • Certified Java Programmer from SWIC