Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Bank of America Charlotte, NC • Extensive SDLC experience including Requirement Analysis, Preparations of Technical Specifications Document, Design and Coding, Application Implementation, Unit testing and System Testing, Functional and Regression Testing and Production Support.  • Around 7 years of extensive development experience in an environment building n-tier applications for web deployment using Java, J2EE, Spring Frame Work, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Hibernate and Web Services.  • Experience in using Maven and ANT as build tools for the building of deployable artifacts.  • Experience in developing web applications using JSP, Spring Boot, Spring MVC Frameworks, EJB, Hibernate, Spring Security, JBOSS, JDBC, Java Server Pages, Servlet, Web Services, JavaScript, JavaBeans  • Good knowledge in relational and NoSQL databases like MySQL, SQLServer, Oracle, Cassandra, DynamoDB, MongoDB.  • Worked extensively with Waterfall, RUP, Agile Extreme Programming (XP), SCRUM Methodologies.  • Experience with Version Control Systems like Subversion (SVN), Git, Clear case and VSS.  • Hands on experience with Version control systems like Visual Source Safe, Harvest and Perforce, SVN.  • Developed AJAX functionalities using frameworks like JSON, POJO, Ext Js and JQuery.  • Expertise in building and deploying of EAR, WAR, JAR files and working with various version control systems such as ClearCase, CVS, SVN, TFS and GitHub.  • Wide exposure with IDE's like Eclipse, NetBeans, IntelliJ, STS for Java programming.  • Experienced in working with XML technologies like XSL, XSD, XSLT, SAX, DTD, DOM, XML Schemas, XPath and JAXB.  • Experience in developing applications using Core Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Struts, Spring 3.2, Spring 4.0, Hibernate, Web Services (SOAP, REST), JAX-RS, JAX-WS, JMS, JDBC, XML, JavaScript, Angular, XSLT, JSON, Ajax and jQuery.  • Expertise in designing and developing Web-centric applications using HTML5, CSS3, Java Applets, JavaScript, XML, XSD, JSON, Ajax, jQuery, Bootstrap, Angular.js, Angular 2, Node.js, ReactJS, Tag Libraries, Google Web Toolkit (GWT) and Custom Tags.  • Experienced in developing persistence layer using O/R Mapping tool like JPA, Hibernate, Spring-JPA and MyBatis.  • Excellent working experience with different operating systems like Windows, UNIX, LINUX.  • Experience in creating JSON scripts for Cloud Formation based on requirements and launch stacks.  • Performed deployment and support of cloud services including Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Good knowledge of in Unified Modeling Tools (UML) concepts and extensively worked in designing Use Cases, Class diagrams, Sequence and Object Diagrams using Rational Rose and Microsoft Visio.  • Developed Technical Design (TD), Test Plans (UTP), Test Cases (UTR), Test Scripts for UAT tests  • Proficient in SQL, PL/SQL developed Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions and Packages besides writing DDL, DML and Transaction queries with development tools like TOAD and Rapid SQL on MySQL, SQL Server and Oracle.  • Expertise in implementing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using Microservices, SOAP/RESTful web services and JMS.  • Solid Hands-on experience in end to end implementation of CI and CD (Continuous Delivery), DevOps processes using AWS Code Commit AW  • S Code Deploy, AWS Code Pipeline, Jenkins, and Ansible  • Excellent analytical, problem solving and interpersonal skills. Ability to learn new concepts fast. Consistent team player with excellent communication skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer Bank of America - Charlotte, NC January 2018 to Present Description: Cigna, a leading Health Services company, helps deliver meaningful value back to the Healthcare space. It is a global health service company dedicated to helping people improve their health, well-being and sense of security and other related products that serve customers around the world    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for the delivering business needs end-to-end, starting from understanding the requirements to deploying the software into production  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Interfaced with upstream and downstream systems to gather requirements. Worked extensively on Spring boot for building web service.  • Involved in developing SQL queries and stored procedures to Insert, fetch and update records into the database using Spring JDBC.  • Designed and developed the login portal using framework Angular JS 2.0 along with HTML5, CSS3 and Type Script.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular JS. Also developed internal services using Java and Node.js.  • Used Spring Batch integrated with Quartz to schedule job to generate a fixed length file and FTP it to the mainframe location.  • Developed projects leveraging Angular1.4/2/4 and MVC framework.  • Built the application with React.JS with client custom architecture  • Designing and developing REST based Web service calls using Jax-RS.  • Designed and developed SOAP web service to provide data to other systems.  • Provided spring based RESTful Web service. Responsible for creating and maintaining architecture for Restful API using Spring Boot.  • Used Docker containers to quickly deploy Linux based applications.  • Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly.  • Experience in using the JavaScript frameworks JQUERY, Angular.js, Backbone.js, and React.JS Node.js & Twitter Bootstrap.  • Worked extensively on developing controllers, Interfaces and implementation classes using Spring MVC framework & used a Microservice architecture with Spring Boot based service through REST.  • Managed and maintained Oracle and NoSQL databases in production domain.  • Designed 10 Unique themes with rich and flexible to accommodate different scenarios in which the user might want to display the data.  • Used Microservices architecture to break down the monolithic application to independent components.  • Implementing or exposing the Microservices based on RESTfull API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Developed API for using AWSLambda to manage the servers and run the code in the AWS  • Developed and used REST web services for the reporting frame work.  • Used Maven for Project management and build automation.  • Responsible for configuring Continuous Integration(CI) Server i.e. Jenkins  • Followed Agile & Scrum Methodology for development of the applications.  • Used Liquibase for tracking, managing and applying database changes.  • Automated test cases related to JDBC Connections, JMS and Web Services in Apache JMeter.  • Created purge scripts to purge old data from the Database.  • Troubleshoot build issues in Jenkins, performance and generating metrics on master's performance along with jobs usage.  • Responsible for preparing the release implementation plan and provide support during Production implementation.    Environment: Java/J2EE, AWS, Microservices,Spring MVC, Spring JMS, Spring Boot, Spring Security, Spring JDBC, Spring Batch, SOAP Web Services, IBM Web sphere MQ, Web logic 12.1.1, XML, Apache JMeter, Sql Server 2012, DynamoDB, Maven, Liquidate, SoapUI, TFS, PuTTy, WinSCP, Eclipse 3.8 and UNIX. Java Developer Service Link - Chandler, AZ October 2016 to November 2017 Description: ServiceLink is the premier national mortgage services company that has been providing loan transaction services to the mortgage industry for more than 47 years. ServiceLink delivers home valuation, title and closing, and flood services to mortgage originators    Responsibilities:  • Implemented application level persistence using Hibernate and spring.  • Involved in detail design developing use cases, use case diagrams, class diagrams, sequence diagrams and high-level activity diagrams using UML from the requirements.  • Implemented the Connectivity to the Data Base Server Using JDBC.  • Experience in developing web application using JavaScript frameworks like Angular1.4/2/4, React Js and Node JS.  • Used Web Services (SOAP) for transmission of large blocks of XML data between two interfaces.  • Installing and Configuring Eclipse and Websphere application Server.  • Deployed the applications on IBM WebSphere Application Server.  • Responsible for creating and maintaining architecture for Restful API using Spring Boot.  • Setup Github and use of Git bash for code submission in GitHub repository.  • Installed and configured Hudson/Jenkins for Automating Deployments and providing an automation solution.  • Involved in the process of data modeling Cassandra Schema  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's in Angular 2.0  • Developed test cases and performed unit test using JUnit Framework.  • Designed and developed the application using agile methodology and followed TDD, Scrum.  • Involved in writing Java API for Amazon Lambda to manage some of the AWS services  • Developed the Servlets for processing the data on the server.  • Used Maven to build and generate code analysis reports.  • Analyzed the Maven dependency management in the base code to annotate the dependencies on to Spring Boot application into Gradle for Microservices.  • Implemented API controllers (SOAP and REST) and web services client classes to interact with downstream systems.  • Deployed and Monitored Micro Services Using Pivotal Cloud Foundry, also Managed Domains and Routes with the Cloud Foundry.  • Used AWS Beanstalk for deploying and scaling web applications and services developed with Java.  • Used SAX and DOM parser to parse the XML documents and XSLT for transformations.  • Analyzed business requirements and documented them into business stories in JIRA  • Based on Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using AXIS web service framework.  • Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information  • Deployed the developed web components on Apache Tomcat Web-Server.  • Involving in Building the modules in LINUX environment with ant script  • Writing and Optimizing MySQL Queries and connect queries to story.    Environment: Docker, AWS, Micro Services, Spring, DB2, CRUD, PL/ SQL, JDBC, MongoDB, Cassandra, AngularJs, Apache CXF, Git, GitHub, Junit, Scrum, UML, JSP, JSTL, Servlet, Maven, XML, JIRA, Web 2.0, SOA, JMS, Apache Tomcat, LINUX, PHP Java Developer Auto Desk April 2014 to September 2016 Location: CA    Description: Autodesk, Inc. is an American multinational software corporation that makes software services for the architecture, engineering, construction, manufacturing, media, education, and entertainment industries.    Responsibilities:  • Prepared High-Level requirement documents upon gathering requirements and discussed with the technical team regarding the feasibility of the requirements.  • Involved in writing SQL Queries, Stored Procedures and Triggers.  • Used Bootstrap, NodeJS for effective design of Web pages.  • Working on the spring framework like Spring IOC and Spring DAO.  • Design and implementation of front-end User Interface development using HTML, DOM, CSS, JSP, JSTL, Java script and Perl scripting, JQuery and AJAX.  • Implemented the MVC architecture using Apache Struts Framework.  • Configuration and deployment of application on to JBOSS application server.  • Developed various EJB's to handle business logic.  • Worked on JDBC to select and update the data from the MySQL database  • Designed and implemented database structure in MySQL Server  • Written and consumed webservices using SOAP based.  • Used SOAP UI for testing SOAP based webservices.  • Performed Java web application development using J2EE and Netbeans.  • Involved in creation of automation framework using Selenium and testing.  • Involved in Requirement analysis, design and Implementation applying the Water fall model.  • Wrote Servlets programming and JSP scripting for the communication between web browser and server.  • Working with the JIRA tool for Quality Center bug tracking.  • Developed Swing for user interaction and data presentation.  • Deployed the complete Web applications in Tomcat Application server.  • Install and configure a LINUX server to publish applications and the Database  • Automated daily task by writing PL/I and UNIX shell scripts.  • Involved in packaging, deployment and upgrade of different modules of SAS on JBoss App server.  • Developed Java Script and Action Script, for Client-Side validations.    Environment: Java, JEE, Spring, JSF, EJB, JQuery, MySQL, SQL Server, DB2, SOAP, WSDL, Netbeans, JBOSS, ClearCase, Selenium, Water Fall Model, UML, JSP, Servlet, ANT, XML, JIRA Software Developer Reliance Tech - Hyderabad, Telangana March 2013 to February 2014 Description: Reliance Tech Services (A Co. Of Reliance Communications Limited.) - Service Provider of network audit, fire protection & digital and high definition video in Hyderabad.    Responsibilities:  • Applied Use Cases diagram to validate and test web application design against the UI architecture.  • Created web pages for each project using XHTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Used JQuery to handle the client-side validations.  • Responsible for transforming designed mock-ups to web pages.  • Used to update the HTML pages using JQUERY AJAX via JSON response.  • Designed web pages and used applications that meet business needs and user goals through a user experience.  • Designed and developed AJAX calls to populate screens parts on demand.  • Developed Web applications that are cross - browser compatible.  • Responsible in creating the screens with table less design.  • Performing new-website support research in the areas of Latest Web Technologies, Usability, Accessibility, and User Experience.  Environment: HTML, XHTML, CSS2/3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, JavaScript, Firebug DEV tool, Chrome DEV Tool, Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator, Dreamweaver, Flash, Visio and Eclipse IDE. Education B. Tech EIILM University Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Spring, Jaxb, Jboss, Jms, Jndi, Jsf, Jsp, Jstl, Servlets, Database, Db2, Jdbc, Sql server, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, C++