Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - Vecna Technologies Cambridge, MA • Highly motivated, creative & versatile IT professional with 7+ years of experience in design and development of client/server applications using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Extensive experience in all phases of software development life cycle (SDLC) including requirements gathering, analysis, design, implementation, deployment and support of applications.  • Strong database connectivity skills which include Oracle, MYSQL, and DB2 and in programming with SQL, PL/SQL.  • Participates in Agile and Scrum Methodology with daily stand-ups, weekly planning games and retrospectives.  • Insight into Java/J2EE technologies such as Core Java, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, spring, Hibernate.  • Broad knowledge and hands on experience in Web development using HTML, DHTML, AJAX, CSS, JavaScript, Jquery, Angular JS, Bootstrap, Node.JS.  • Expertise in frame works like spring,Hibernate, Struts and JSF.  • Executes Restful Web services using Spring MVC Rest frameworks.  • Involved in creating and consuming SOAP based and Restful web services using WSDL, JAX-WS, SOAP UI,JAX-RS and JERSEY framework.  • Experienced in working with Jenkins for Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Deployment (CD).  • Involved in automated testing using Selenium, JUnit, TestNg frameworks.  • Experience in using application servers like Tomcat, Web sphere and Glass Fish.  • Experience in implementing persistence layer using JDBC, Spring Dao and Hibernate.  • Implemented MVC Frameworks such as spring MVC.  • Extensively working on XML, DTD, XML Schema, XSL, XPath, DOM, and SOAP.  • Exposure to different IDE's like Eclipse, IntelliJ and Net Beans.  • Supported Testers with Unit Testing, User Acceptance Testing and Bug Fixing.  • Familiar with JBoss Web Application server.  • Significant knowledge of Google Web Toolkit.  • Highly organized with the ability to prioritize workload, manage multiple tasks and meet project deadlines by following project standards and routines as per customer specs. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Developer Vecna Technologies - Cambridge, MA January 2018 to Present Vecna Medical's patient self-service products include a Patient Portal, Patient Kiosk, and Patient Queuing. The Patient Portal is an online application that patients use to complete administrative tasks such as scheduling appointments, registering for appointments, paying bills, and exchanging secure messages with providers. Patients can also view clinical information such as lab results, medication, and patient problem lists. A data exchange platform supports bi-directional data exchange with any brand of hospital EMR/EHR system via a range of interfaces, including HL7, X12, XML and web-services.  The Patient Kiosk is a hospital kiosk that lets patients review their demographic information, verify insurance coverage, pay bills, and check in at the point-of-service. It uses the same data exchange platform as the Patient Portal, which allows patients who have completed registration activities online to check in with a barcode    Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile - Scrum methodology for development of the product. Using Atlassian Jira Agile for Agile scrum project management/update.  • Implemented the application with XP methodology as Agile process, refactoring the existing code and writing new code.  • Developed the web pages Java, JavaScript, JQuery, Angularjs, HTML5, CSS and J2EE technology framework using Spring 2 (MVC, JDBC), Hibernate, and Web Services with J2EE design patterns using Eclipse.  • Developed and consumed restful web services using Apache CXF Framework.  • Worked on Hibernate object/relational mapping according to database schema.  • Involved in creation of Test Cases for JUnit Testing.  • Performing code deployments to local Tomcat server for testing in Ubuntu Linux environment.  • Worked on Git Repository for code integration and version control.  • Continuous integration using Jenkins on tomcat.  • Used Maven and Ant for Build Automation; ensuring proper settings, avoiding/solving any errors.  • Participating in and performing Code Reviews and/or Pair programming of peer development.  • Executed tasks on XML registry, XSLT/XQuery and transformation capabilities.  • Worked on AJAX implementation for retrieving the content and display it without reloading the existing page. Worked on JSON to populate required modules in jQuery.  • Worked on designing and executing the automation scripts using Selenium.  • Involved in improving the site tuning and performance of webpages by HTTP profiling in chrome and Firefox.  • Developed an HTML parser and then build the DOM tree with that and using this DOM tree one can split out the XML document.    Environment: J2EE, Eclipse 3.x, Java Script, JQuery 1.x, Angularjs 1.4, node.js, Apache CXF, Tomcat 6.x, CSS, AJAX, XML, XSLT, ANT, JUNIT, WSDL, PostgreSQL 9, log4j, Jenkins, Git, JSON, Ubuntu Java Full Stack Developer Wells Fargo - Richmond, CA May 2015 to December 2017 CORE is dynamic web based project that allows Wells Fargo Home Mortgage Lending Team Members to process a loan from originating to funding. It helps to process a loan by collecting information from the customers like borrower information, Credit, Assets, Liabilities, Purchase price and all other information required to process a loan. Core improves the communication between sales and fulfillment team to provide an enhanced experience.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Designing front end development using JavaScript, Angular JS Framework.  • Worked on configuring Spring MVC with Angular JS using Request Mapping.  • Used Spring Security to implement Single Page Application functionality.    • Developed the Web Interface using Angular-JS, Java Script, HTML5, CSS.  • Used the Spring Rest Services to interact with Business Objects.  • Used Object/Relational mapping tool Hibernate/JPA to perform data base activities and transactions    • Implemented Hibernate POJO Classes, Hibernate Configuration file and Hibernate Mapping files.    • Written test plans and test cases, setup test configurations and executed the tests for different modules and TestNG used for unit testing.    • Request and Response mapping using Spring (AOP) from and to the application server by annotation based spring configuration in Eclipse IDE.    • Used Eclipse as IDE for development.    • Used WebStorm to develop Angular JS Pages and integration with the server.    • Used JIRA for creating tasks, sub-tasks and also for defect tracking.    • Performed end to end testing using Protractor and UI testing using Jasmine.    • Module testing using TestNG and Mockito.    • Involved in peer to peer code reviews and cross checked whether coding standards are being followed and performed integration testing of the module.    • Involved in code versioning, Check-In, Check-outs and code merging using Sub-Version.    • Used Maven to build and deploy application onto JBOSS Application Server.    • Used Java Messaging Services for developing messaging services to interact with different application modules    • Involved actively in Application Production Support.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JDK 1.7, Spring 3.2, Angular-JS 1.5, HTML, CSS, JSON, Bootstrap, MS VISIO, Restful Web services, Hibernate, JMS, MAVEN, SVN, Oracle 10g, XML1.1, JBoss EAP 6.4.5, Eclipse Juno, TestNG, JIRA Senior Java / J2EE Developer Beach Body March 2014 to April 2015 Responsibilities  • Developed spring daemons for different modules involved in the process of publishing documents.  • Participated in Scrum Meetings.  • Developed High level and detailed level design documents based on business requirements provided.  • Designed interactive static HTML using HTML5 and CSS3 as screen level prototype, JavaScript for client side validation.  • Used core JAVA to implement data Structures including linked lists, stacks, queues, trees, hash tables and different sorting and searching algorithms.  • Used RESTFUL in conjunction with Ajax calls using JAX-RS and Jersey.  • Designed and developed the Application using spring and hibernate frame work.  • Enable DSAuthentication for the web Service APIs' to make it accessible only for valid users by using spring Interceptors.  • Implement Spring AOP for logging to avoid code redundancy  • Developed DAO and service layers using the Spring Dao support and hibernate ORM mappings.  • Created interactive websites and website features using JavaScript and Jquery/Jquery UI.  • Wrote Page level code using JavaScript with Angular.js framework along with JQUERY and other JavaScript libraries, Node.JS.  • Develop JUnit test cases for all the functional flows in the application, Passes all test cases successfully.  • Developed and implemented Spring and J2EE based MVC (Model-View-Controller).  • Handled response data from RESTFUL web services using XML, JSON andJqueryto update UI Interacted with java controllers (Jquery, Ajax, and JSON to write/read data from back end systems).  • Used Eclipse IDE for development, configured and deployed the application using ANT, and tested using JUnit.  • Developed several REST web services supporting both XML and JSON to perform tasks such as remote thermostat and demand-response management. Restful web services leveraged by both web and mobile applications.  • Created Jenkins jobs and running the jobs to check for any build issues.  • Environment: Java 1.7, JavaScript, Spring 4.0.5.x, Hibernate3.x, JUnit, Eclipse, Tomcat, UNIX, Oracle, JSF , HTML, XML, Spring MVC, Hibernate 3.0, Log4j, Web Sphere 6.1, REST Services, Angular JS, Jquery, Jenkins, JAX-RS,JAX-WS. Java/J2EE Developer 3i-Infotech Ltd April 2012 to February 2014 Project: AMLock  AMLock is a state-of-the-art Anti Money Laundering and fraud detection application developed for banks and other financial institutions, which helps to achieve compliance with Anti Money Laundering regulations and thereby protect their integrity and reputation. AMLock enables Banks and Financial Institutions to process transactions either in real-time or on offline basis, and checks for the abnormal behavior of a customer. It enables banks to identify those transactions that involve them in illegal transactions and harm their stability and reputation from the viewpoint of money laundering.  Responsibilities:  • Actively participated in the complete software lifecycle of requirement gathering, design, development and implementation for various new business features.  • Brainstormed with the team and created the scope and functional specifications to lay out the project phases.  • Worked with the DBA team to develop the initial draft for the data model from the requirements.  • Developed application using JSP, HTML, CSS, Struts framework, client side data validations using JavaScript.  • Created Stored Procedures using Pl/SQL, functions, triggers in MSSQL server and Oracle to fetch required data  • Analyze the pattern of transactions for abnormal behavior and generate reports.  • Designed, developed, and deployed EJB components (Session and Message Driven) beans.  • Written code for generating reports in PDF using iText.  • Escalate the consolidated report on daily/weekly basis to the respective authority to meet the statutory requirements.  • Used AJAX to load a part of the page dynamically and CSS for styling.  • Implemented localization and customized features for different client requirements.  • Developed prototype versions of the application for enhancement to new domain/sector.  • Deployed source code control processes across the CVS.  • Provided implementation support and defect management to ensure a successful go-live.  • Documentation of common problems prior to go-live, and while actively in a Production Support role.  • Provided mentoring for the team members to complete the tasks efficiently and in time.  Environment: Struts1.2, Java Servlets, Java Beans, EJB, Struts Framework, Java, JSP, AJAX, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, MS SQL Server 2000 and Oracle, CVS. Education Bachelor's Skills PHP, MySQL, ASP, Android, Javascript