Technical Analyst Technical Analyst Mauldin, SC South Carolina based Object Oriented Programmer Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Technical Analyst Infor - Greenville, SC December 2016 to Present Responsibilities: Support a product created by and distributed by Infor. Answer to customers directly by interfacing through emails and calls.  Specifics: The product was created in Java (backend) and JavaScript (front end).  Support entailed showing endpoint users how to do a certain action on top of fixing programmatic errors in the application  All problems and solutions are clearly documented through proprietary software.  The job also required night-call support in which 24/ 7 support was necessary (the responsibility was divvied up based on a rotation). IT Specialist, Software Developer Aimco - Greenville, SC December 2015 to May 2016 Responsibilities: Draw requirements, develop and test software tailored to a client's needs. Support the system (Redhat's Jboss system) through errors and nightly runs.  Specifics: The software was made in an agile development methodology environment.  Coded Java using Eclipse IDE, Database developed and managed with SQL Server Management Studio.  Database connections and persistency through JPA ( Java Persistence API).  The processes and services were compiled and ran through the Red Hat Jboss interface. Java Programmer Concentrix - Greenville, SC February 2015 to November 2015 Responsibilities: Developing software catered to client demands ( Java, SQL, GoAnywhere), internal communication, being on Night-Call (IT Support)  Specifics: Developed in a waterfall model development.  Development consisted of making and maintaining applications through a web portal.  Coded Java using Eclipse IDE, Database developed and managed with SQL Server Management Studio.  Database connections and persistency through Hibernate.  Dependency injections through Spring.  Client hierarchy was me communicating to my project manager and then the project manager communicating with the QUA, Actuary and client to confer my points.  My project in particular was data conversion. Taking in huge amounts of data, manipulating it in a way that the client needed and most importantly Business Intelligence optimizing it's execution time. Computer Science Tutor University of South Carolina Upstate - Spartanburg, SC August 2014 to December 2014 Responsibilities: Supplementary help for students  Assist students with concepts and assignments  Specifics: The material was catered towards underclassmen.  Our main goal was to teach student concepts by example, analogy or by breaking it down using a higher visualization. Education B.S. in Computer Science in Software Engineering University of South Carolina Upstate - Spartanburg, SC Skills Java (2 years), PHP (1 year), Analytics (3 years), Web Services (2 years)