Job Seeker Herndon, VA ? 7+ years of experience in IT Solution Design and Implementation for web applications in Banking and Telecom domains.  ? Strong Programming Skills in designing and implementation of multi-tier applications using Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, HTML, JavaScript, Spring, Spring Boot, Hibernate.  ? Good experience on working with Amazon Web Services like EC2, S3, Amazon RDS, Elastic Load Balancing, AWS Identity and Access Management, AWS Cloud Watch, AWS EBS and Route53.  ? Experience in developing Web Services using -JAX-RS, Restful.  ? Experience in working Apache Tomcat7x servers.  ? Strong experience in all the phases of software development life cycle including requirements gathering, analysis, design, implementation, deployment and support.  ? Experience in modeling complex applications using class diagram, sequence diagram, component diagrams and activation diagrams.  ? Experience in Java design patterns such as Factory, Builder, Singleton, Prototype, Data Access Objects (DAO), and Business Delegate. Work Experience CapitalOne - Richmond, VA July 2018 to Present Richmond, VA (July 2018 To present)    Project: Chariot  Chariot is the customized version of Nuxeo Platform used for next-generation content management. The Nuxeo platform is an open-source content management system capable of content authoring/editing, metadata management, versioning, deployment, workflow and security. Our build-out of Chariot is in accord with Chassis architecture.    Chariot can be thought of as a new front-end with new user interface for content management. The content is edited, saved, and pushed to Runtime Content Repos.    We migrated Chariot system and the content from on-prem to Cloud.    Role: Developer.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirement, design & development phases and creating custom solutions to match the requirements.  • Attend planning meetings with product owner and business teams and gather the requirements.  • Design the application and create stories and tasks under JIRA board.  • Create CI/CD pipeline using Jenkins and COVE (Capital One proprietary) to build the infrastructure stack and deploy the application in different environments (dev, IT, Perf and Prod)  • Used spring frame work features like Spring IOC, Spring AOP.  • Involved AWS rehydration process.  • Used Amazon Cloud Watch to monitor AWS services and AWS cloud watch logs to monitor application.  • Developed REST APIs and deployed them on cloud. Java Developer Cardinal Bank - Herndon, VA January 2016 to June 2018 Herndon, VA (Jan 2016 To June 2018)  Project: Online Loan Application Form  It's a financial institution that provides funds or loans to people with small business requirements. Applicants get their loans sanctioned based on their credit history. Applicant information is maintained in a database along with the details of the loan for repayment. This data is filtered into different categories based on parameters like type of account, loan amount and due date. The filtered data is used for statistics for generating reports.    Role: Java Developer.  Responsibilities:  • Participated in Agile Development Team and having daily SCRUM meeting for progress reporting as well as task distributing.  • Extensively involved in the integration of the front-end web interface with Spring MVC, Angular JS, JSP, HTML and CSS  • Developed unit test cases using Jasmine to test Angular Controllers and Services and developed custom validations using Angular JS  • Developed pages using Angular JS Directives, Expressions, Routing Capabilities for bookmarking, filters and validations.  • Designed client-side validations using Angular JS custom form validation that leverages various Angular Directives and Integrated Angular JS Filters to format data for searching, ordering, conditional iterating.  • Used $http and $resource service for retrieving data from the server in Angular.js framework and $location service for URL browser manipulation.  • Used Spring Framework and J2EE components, utilized Spring, MVC, IOC, AOP and DAO modules.  • Applied Object-Oriented methodologies and core J2EE design patterns like Factory, Singleton, Business Delegate and MVC.  • Designed, developed and integrated Spring DAO layer with hibernate.  • Designed and developed RESTful web services using Spring Boot, tested web services using Postman.  • Used Maven and Jenkins for build process and continuous integration.  • Supported QA and UAT defect resolution; used Atlassian JIRA to publish daily defect reports to the management.    Environment:  Java 1.7, J2EE, Agile, Angular JS, JSP, HTML, CSS, JSON, Java Script, Spring Boot, Hibernate, RESTful Web Services, Apache Tomcat 8, IntelliJ, JUnit, Jasmine, JIRA. Inventory, IP Address Manager AT&T Research Labs - KARNATAKA, IN July 2012 to April 2014 Location: Bangalore, India    Project: Logical Provisioning Platform (LPP)  LPP provides inventory management, provisioning and configuration of network elements such as switches, routers, VPN, circuits etc. for at&t across the globe for various services like Asynchronous Transfer Mode (ATM), Frame Relay (FR), Managed Internet Services, MPLS etc.  LPP is developed jointly by AT&T and IBM developers. I have worked on various modules of LPP like External System Interfaces, Inventory, IP Address Manager. Currently I am working as a senior developer in Service Component.    Service Component plays a major role in the Design and Assign process. Service Component maintains AT&T's service catalogue and validates, translates and loads the customer orders for various services from the respective ordering systems into LPP. Service Component also provides key inputs to various components involved in Design and Assign and Activation flows in assigning the right set of network resources to the customer orders configuring them.    Role:Application Developer.  Responsibilities:  • Analyzed the requirements and designed class diagrams, sequence diagrams using UML and prepared high level technical documents.  • Designed and developed UI screens with XSLT and Spring MVC to provide interactive screens to display data.  • Used parsers like SAX and DOM for parsing xml documents and used XML transformations using XSLT.  • Implemented Java and J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate and Data Transfer Object (DTO), Data Access Object (DAO) and Service Locator.  • Developed several Spring WebServices and Spring scheduled jobs.  • Setup RESTful APIs for retrieving order and fallout information to be presented on other GUI applications.  • Setup annotation based Hibernate configuration to access Oracle Database.  • Developed and executed unit test cases using JUnit to ensure quality of code  • Used Maven for build & dependency management, Jenkins for Continuous integration.  • Deployed the application on tomcat Serverand tested it using Soap UI.  • Involved in documentation, review, analysis and fixed post production issues.  • Maintained the Production and the Test systems.  • Worked on bug fixing and enhancements on change requests.    Environment: Core Java, Spring 3.2, Hibernate 4.3, Java 1.7, Maven 3.0.3, SVN, SQL, Apache Tomcat 7, RallyDev Being a developer Fidelity Investments - KARNATAKA, IN December 2009 to June 2012 Location: Bangalore, India    Project: Wealth-Pro  Fidelity Investments is an international provider of financial services and investment resources that help individuals and institutions meet their financial objectives. Wealth-Pro is a Web based application that enables users to access their account, modify the stocks, trading strategies online. Being a developer, was involved in creating Java server pages for trading account details, entity beans in the middle tier and providing connectivity with the database at the backend.    Role: Program Analyst  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the analysis, design, and development and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle.  • Developed N-tier client-server business application software using Model View Controller (MVC) Architecture.  • Extensive use of core Java Collections, Generics, Exception Handling and Design Patterns for functionality Involved in writing different Design Patterns like Business Delegate, Service Locater, Data Transfer Objects (DTOs) and Data Access Objects (DAOs)  • Used Hibernate in persistence layer and developed POJO's, Data Access Object to handle database operations.  • Worked on System security with the use of SSL (Secure socket layer), encryption and used role-based security.  • Expertise in developing reusable and interoperable Web service modules based on SOA architecture using SOAP and RESTful and Preparation of Java and JSP coding standard checklist.  • Involved in the development of Servlet, Business Objects, Web Services.  • Involved in writing JUnit Test Cases using frameworks like Mockito, PowerMockito.  • WSDL has been used to expose the Web Services.  • SOAP has been used as a protocol to Communicate in the form of XML messages.  • Developed client request validations and processing using JavaScript and HTML. Education M.C.A in DAO using Hibernate and Hibernate mapping files Sri Venkateswara University - Tirupati, Andhra Pradesh Skills JAVA (6 years), DATABASE (6 years), HTML (5 years), JSP (5 years), WEB SERVICES (5 years) Additional Information SKILLS:    Languages: Java, J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL, Unix Shell Script  Web Technologies: JSP/Servlet, REST Web Services, HTML, CSS, XML,  JavaScript.  Frameworks: Spring, Spring Boot, Hibernate  Web Servers: Apache Tomcat  Database: Oracle, Postgresql  Operating Systems: Windows, UNIX  Tools: SQL Plus, Toad, DBVisualizer, Soap UI  Build Tools: Maven, Ant  Cloud Technologies: AWS