Sr. AEM Developer Sr. AEM <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. AEM Developer - PNC Bank • Over 8 years of Information Technology experience in Web content management systems, Web design, Web development, Java Development and SQL development.  • 4+ years of experience in Adobe CQ 5.5 and Adobe Experience Manager (AEM) 5.6/6.0/6.2/6.3.  • Good understanding to develop Content Management System applications using CRXDE and Eclipse IDEs.  • Developed custom AEM components on top of JCR ( Java Content Repository) and Apache Sling (A REST based web development framework on top of JCR), CRX (Day's commercial JCR Implementation), and CQ5 (Day's latest suite of WCM, DAM, and Social Collaboration applications).  • Competence in AEM concepts such as custom CQ Components on top of JCR, CRXDE, CQ platform and use of core frameworks includes Apache Sling and Apache Felix.  • Integrated LDAP for user access to the CMS system for authoring, publishing and workflow management.  • Proficient in using various IDEs like CRXDE, CRXDE-Lite, RAD, and Eclipse.  • Good web page design skills and work experience in developing web applications covering front-end/ UI using the web internet technologies like HTML4/5, XHTML, CSS2/3, JS, jQuery, Json, XML, AJAX and Content Management Systems with emphasis on W3C and usability standards.  • Migrated components from legacy CQ5 CMS to new implementation on AEM 6.1 and AEM 6.2.  • Good experience in coordinating and working with developers (Offshore and Onsite) and End Users in Team based environment.  • Excellent work experience in Adobe Day CQ5 WCM, CMS, CRXDE, CRXDE Lite, OSGI Framework, JCR, Apache sling, template development, CQ5, Component Development, Architecture, Administration and installation of author and Publish instances, etc.  • Strong in AEM DAM, developed custom code to create assets, renditions, creating custom metadata for assets and assign Tags to assets.  • Experience in developing Custom Bundles and Servlets on Adobe Felix.  • Proficient Experience in working with OSGI bundles, Event Handling, Sling Servlets, Sling Listeners, Sling Schedulers and Sling Config.  • Developed Use Case diagrams, Class Diagrams and sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Great knowledge in Front End Technologies: AJAX, JSTL, JSP, HTML, EXT JS, Bootstrap, angular JS, JavaScript, jQuery and CSS.  • Proficient in developing integrated business applications using Hibernate, Spring framework (Spring Core Framework, AOP, Spring Integration, Spring Batch, Spring MVC, Spring Web flow and Spring Security), Struts, JSF Framework and Web Services (JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, JAXP, JAXB).  • Strong experience in using version control tools like Git, GitHub, Subversion (SVN) and CVS.  • Well versed with Software Development Life Cycle and Agile Methodology (Scrum).  • Adapt to new technologies and environment and active role as team player with strong analytical and problem-solving skills from design through delivery. Work Experience Sr. AEM Developer PNC Bank December 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed Adobe AEM6.3 templates and reusable Touch UI Responsive Web Design Components for the business users or the Editors.  • Deployed the New Products Successfully multiple times.  • Developed Custom OSGI Servlets, Custom OSGI Services, Sling Models, Components and Bundles.  • Developed profile page using AEM Sightly (HTL).  • Done installation of Apache AEM dispatcher and configuration of the dispatcher to AEM instance.  • Good knowledge on Digital Asset management (DAM) using AEM 6.3.  • Developed 6 Products for Business Lending.  • Building AEM Forms in Web Based Applications. The Forms side is most important from an AEM perspective; this is where PNC is most active.  • Good knowledge on DAM metadata Profile, schemas creation and applying to the DAM Assets.  • Good knowledge on creating AEM templates, pages, components and creating client library folder and refer in the pages.  • Worked on AEM Communities and make use of the OOTB Community Components in our Intranet site.  • Participated in product customization meetings and customized the OOTB components.  • Created the Sling Schedulers for removing the processed documents, pdf, txt, and images.  • Produce and Consume RESTful Web Services, build RESTful API's.  • Involved in Designing of Custom MSM (Multi-Site Manager) roll out configurations, Blueprint, Live Copy and Responsive Web Design for Desktops, Mobile Phones, Tablets in a AEM Clustered environment.  • Worked on Apache Web server configurations.  • Build AEM Run modes for DEV, QA, UAT and PROD.  • Involved in Designing of Custom MSM (Multi-Site Manager) roll out configurations, Blueprint, Live Copy and Responsive Web Design for Desktops, Mobile Phones, Tablets in a AEM Clustered environment.    Environment: AEM 6.3, AEM DAM, CQ, Workflow, Apache Sling, CRXDE, CRX, WCM, HTML, JSP, Servlets, Springs, Hibernate, JavaScript, jQuery, Eclipse IDE, Tomcat 7, Scene 7, Apache Maven,Agile(Scrum), Apache HTTP Server, SOAP and REST Web Services, Sr. AEM Developer Aspect - Orlando, FL October 2017 to November 2018 Responsibilities:  • Developed Adobe AEM6.0 templates and reusable Touch UI Responsive Web Design Components for the business users or the Editors.  • Design and development of web pages using HTML5, CSS3, jQuery-UI, AJAX.  • Developed Custom OSGI Servlets, Custom OSGI Services, Sling Models, Components and Bundles.  • Developed profile page using AEM Sightly (HTL).  • Developed maven script to install bundles and content to AEM server.  • Done installation of Apache AEM dispatcher and configuration of the dispatcher to AEM instance.  • Good knowledge on Digital Asset management (DAM) using AEM 6.0.  • Configuring MANGO DB with AEM 6.0.  • Developed Custom Workflow to create additional metadata info for the uploaded images.  • Good knowledge on DAM metadata Profile, schemas creation and applying to the DAM Assets.  • Good knowledge on creating AEM templates, pages, components and creating client library folder and refer in the pages.  • Worked on AEM Communities and make use of the OOTB Community Components in our Intranet site.  • Participated in product customization meetings and customized the OOTB components.  • Created the Sling Schedulers for removing the processed documents, pdf, txt, and images.  • Worked on User/Groups Creation and Permissions to User/Groups.  • Involved in Designing of Custom MSM (Multi-Site Manager) roll out configurations, Blueprint, Live Copy and Responsive Web Design for Desktops, Mobile Phones, Tablets in a AEM Clustered environment.  • Worked on Apache Web server configurations.  • Build AEM Run modes for DEV, QA, UAT and PROD.  • Involved in Designing of Custom MSM (Multi-Site Manager) roll out configurations, Blueprint, Live Copy and Responsive Web Design for Desktops, Mobile Phones, Tablets in a AEM Clustered environment.  • Worked on CQ Personalization, Localization and Campaign Management.  • Worked on CRX, DAM, automation of deployments using Jenkins and Maven.  • Responsible for debugging, analyzing and fixing all the code related issues and front end/backend related issues that arise out of the production systems.    Environment: AEM 6.0, AEM DAM, CQ, Workflow, Apache Sling, CRXDE, CRX, WCM, HTML, JSP, Servlets, Springs, Hibernate, JavaScript, jQuery, Eclipse IDE, Tomcat 7, Scene 7, Apache Maven, Version one, TFS, Agile(Scrum), Apache HTTP Server, SOAP and REST Web Services, Linux, Windows, Unix. Sr. Adobe AEM/CQ Developer AutoZone - Memphis, TN May 2016 to September 2017 Responsibilities:  • Creating servlets for backend services like forms, populating the dealer's information from the services.  • Creating components, templates, dialogs, client libs etc.  • Used slightly in AEM 6.2 for highlighting is focus on keeping your markup beautiful, and thus maintainable, once made dynamic.  • Experience in developing application and creating servlets using Java 1.8.  • Experience in developing application on OSGI, Apache Sling and Apache Felix Frameworks.  • Extensive use of AEM tag libraries and custom tag libraries in components.  • Creating/modifying templates as per new requirements, custom dialogs and updating the client libraries.  • Developed spring framework for security transactions, reusability logging purpose.  • Designed and develop user interface using Bootstrap, JQuery, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and Responsive websites.  • Training business users on how to use CQ5 to modify content and publish.  • Attend daily SCRUM calls. Involved in backend production support/on-call when there is any deployment. Tested the code changes in Development, QA, and Stage environments thoroughly before going to production.  • Responsible for setting up the Author permissions for various author groups and coordinating with the Dev team and perform build and deploying the components  • Worked on dispatcher cache in AEM while working on auto login scenario.  • Maintained the Content Management System (CMS) and provided support for the application in authoring environment.  • Worked on Soap UI and restful web services to know the response when making service calls while fixing the issues.  • Worked on HTML, JavaScript and JQuery for fixing the mobile application issues.  • Involved in all stages of environments in this project  • Used Maven automated build scripts to compile and package the application.  • Used Jira for bug tracking and project management.  • Experience with Agile process methodology and Scrum methodology.  • Integration of AEM with Adobe Marketing cloud and other third-party services.  • Worked on performance tuning, root cause analysis for support projects.    Environment: AEM 6.2, JDK1.7, JSP, Servlets, Slightly, Apache Sling, CRXDE, CRX, WCM, Java Script, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Ajax, JQuery, Ajax, SOAP, REST Services, Maven, Agile, GitHub, Eclipse, JIRA. AEM/CQ5 Developer World Bank - Washington, DC May 2015 to April 2016 Responsibilities:  • Worked on CRX as a repository and accessing the CRX content nodes by SQL Queries and XPath.  • GIT is used as a distributed revision control system. File vault in conjunction with GIT helps to pull or push the code to developer's machine.  • Held responsible for designing and implementing cloud-based solutions, including private, community and public cloud deployment models.  • Developed custom components, customized forms for Internet and Intranet sites of the company.  • Developed static web pages, landing pages, category landing pages using content management system.  • Provided estimates, designs, and specifications for AEM templates, components, and workflows.  • Built various web pages using HTML, Angular JS, CSS, Java Script and JQuery.  • Setup and configured Authoring and Publishing environments, replication agents, AEM dispatcher to cache the landing pages' html and serve as the static pages from Apache.  • Used Angular JS to provide services to different components of portal.  • Worked on Angular JS for reading and Posting JSON data.  • Experience creating CQ templates, Workflows, and CQ Administration.  • Every aspect of the web page, starting from title tags and Meta information to paragraphs of the content is designed and developed in such a way that it can be adjusted by content authors or restricted to only advanced administrators.  • Worked on Custom OSGI services, workflows, scheduler jobs development.  • Worked on dispatcher configurations for cache and load balancing.  • GIT is used as a distributed revision control system for CQ5. File vault in conjunction with GIT helps to pull or push the code to developer's machine.    Environment: AEM 5.6.1, DAM, CQ Tagging, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, Java, J2EE, Amazon AWS, Apache Maven, Angular JS, Rally, Restful Web Services, JAXP, JAXB, Axis 2.0, Jersey 1.2, Servlets, JDBC, MS SQL Server, HTML, Angular JS, JSP, AJAX, JUnit, log4j, Linux, Windows, ATTD AEM/CQ5 Developer Highmark - Pittsburgh, PA July 2014 to April 2015 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed, CQ5 building blocks including templates, components, dialogs, widgets, workflows.  • Worked on CRX as a repository and accessing the CRX content nodes by SQL Queries and XPath.  • Developed more than 2 applications that uses JCR content repository in CQ to store information and query the JCR for display and reporting purposes.  • Developed custom components, customized forms for Internet and Intranet sites of the company.  • Maintaining OSGI java classes for assets import, validation processes, and to fetch the data from CQ repository obtained from different providers.  • Provide estimates, designs, and specifications for CQ5 templates, components, and workflows.  • Built various web pages using HTML, CSS, Java Script and JQuery.  • Implemented lots of Restful based web services from scratch  • Solid understanding of all Adobe CQ building blocks and the CQ development and deployment process.  • Setup and configure Authoring and Publishing environments, replication agents, CQ5 dispatcher to cache the landing pages html and serve as the static pages from Apache.  • Worked on CQ5 Forms customization by developing the custom form fields, writing the custom constraints for form fields and specifying the global validation resource type at the form level.  • Offer solutions on top of the Adobe WCM, CRX/CRXDE, CQ WCM, DAM.  • Define implementation processes, quality gates and standards.  • Developed message driven web services using Spring Integration.  • Integrated Spring DAO for data access using with Hibernate.  • OSGI bundle development experience.  Environment: AEM5.6.1, Adobe CQ5, JAVA, J2EE, OSGI, Spring Integration, HIBERNATE, MYSQL, AJAX, JSON, HTML, CSS, Java Script, JQUERY, Jenkins, Maven, SOAP UI, XPath, XML, LINUX, JSP, Web Services (REST), Eclipse, SVN. SQL Developer/ Java Developer Canara Bank, Karnataka - IN January 2013 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  • Worked with functional leads to discuss business specifications and transformed them in to technical requirements.  • Developed environment set up document and assisted development team to install development environment.  • Assisted in developing the technology proposal document required for the system.  • Created user interfaces for the presentation layer using JSP, HTML, DHTML and JavaScript.  • Developed JSP custom tags required for the presentation layer.  • Wrote ANT scripts to automate the build process.  • Developed business components in the rule's engine. XML based configuration is provided to configure rules engine dynamically on the run time.  • Worked with the database team to analyze the data from development perspective.  • Developed SQL scripts to create database tables, synonyms, sequences, users, roles and granted privileges to the users.  • Used SQL*Loader, Import/Export, UTL_FILE, DBMS_XMLQUERY, DBMS_PIPE and other Oracle built-in packages.  • Automated SQL*Loader to load the data from the flat files.  • Developed various Procedures, function packages and triggers to Extract, transform and load the data from various source files to target database.  • Involved unit, performance testing and documented the test results.    Environment: Java, JSP, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, JavaBeans, Eclipse, WebLogic, Oracle 10g R2, IBM DB2, JDBC, EJB, MVC, ANT, Windows XP, Linux, Toad, Oracle SQL Developer. Java Developer Vayana - Chennai, Tamil Nadu June 2011 to December 2012 Responsibilities:  • Implemented Spring MVC framework which includes writing Controller classes for handling requests, processing form submissions and performed validations using Commons validator  • Developed Restful Web Services using JAX-RS  • Involve with content management strategies, architecture and multichannel content delivery.  • Developed UI and front-end code to interact with the backend of the application in Java.  • Participated in daily Scrum Calls and contributed effectively during discussion for effective solutions.  • Working on integrating applications with third party application by consuming web services.  • Working in MAVEN automated build scripts to compile and package the application.  • Design and support testing of code prior to deployment to main branch.    Environment: Java, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, JQuery, Bootstrap, JQuery, Spring, Hibernate, JSON, JBOSS, Agile. Skills Eclipse, Ejb, Java, Jms, jquery, Jsp, Jstl, Servlets, C++, Content management, Git, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Json, Svn, Xml, Xslt, Ajax, Css Additional Information Technical Skills  Operating Systems Windows, Mac OS, Linux/UNIX  Web Content Management Tools Adobe Experience Manager/Adobe CQ  Programming Languages JAVA, C, C++, SQL, PL/SQL, MATLAB / SIMULINK  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, JSP, SIGHTLY, XML, JSON, AJAX, JMS, JSP, Servlets, Bootstrap, AngularJS, jQuery, ExtJS, JSTL, EJB, XSLT  IDE Tools Eclipse, IntelliJ, Brackets, My Eclipse, Maven, ANT  Database Oracle 12C/11g/10g, SQL Server 2012/2008/2005, DB2, MongoDB  Version Controlling Tools GIT, SVN  RDBMS Utilities TOAD, SQL developer, SQL * Loader, SQL navigator.