Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - IHS Markit Southfield, MI, MI, MI, MI Work Experience Java Developer IHS Markit - Southfield, MI August 2017 to Present Description:Cisco Systems, Inc. is an American multinational technology conglomerate headquartered in San Jose, California, in the center of Silicon Valley, that develops, manufactures and sells networking hardware, telecommunications equipment and other high-technology services and products    Responsibilities:  • Developed Java based Web App for internal portal (PLM) using modern frameworks like Spring Boot, Spring MVC, RESTful Web Services, LESS and jQuery.  • Strategize approach for migrating legacy data to NoSQL - Cassandra databases.  • Contribute in maintaining stable data flow between data warehouse and parts management.  • Responsible for Charter's infrastructure design and development, integration development and 24x7 production support.  • Design and development of web applications- using Jquery, Java, SpringIO / Spring Boot.  • Develop solutions with vendors in the lab, writing concept review, requirements and functional specification documentation and working with the Quality Assurance lab for handoff and field deployment; ongoing projects include but are not limited to development of an Identity Management SOA.  • Interact with the cross functional teams to create and / or review product requirements, functional specifications, and detailed designs; Post development, interacts with the operations group to communicate / knowledge transfer product details for deployments.  • Implementation of CSRF Security to avoid any XSS Vulnerabilities  • Experienced in OWASP developer.  • Utilize Agile process to streamline development process with iterative development. The system was developed in a test driven development (TDD), Extreme Programming (XP), Pair Programming environment using iterative development methodologies.  • Assisted with migration to Spring Batch 3.0 (JSR 352) by developing core framework components.  • Deployed an Apache Lucene/Solr search engine server to help speed up the search of the technical documentation asset.  • For CMS, integrated the AEMSolr Search to enhance web portal searching capabilities, setup the SolrCloud and refactored the HTTP Clients with SolrJapi.  • Manage all aspects/lifecycles of projects for engineering including resourcing and deliverables timeline.  • Customize PLM tool using Java, XML, JSP, Servlets and SQL.  • Designed the SolrSchema, and used the SolrJ client api for storing, indexing, querying the schema fields.  • Created a wrapper library to help the rest of the team use the Solr database and the documentation of the SolrRestAPI  • Responsible for the verification of the Solr search and indexes working and the quality before it is published.  • Solr tuning with various search strategies in the customer's in-house developed data sets.  • Using CXF, exposed the restful and SOAP-based web services as API to be utilized by mobile applications.  • Configured and utilized ActiveMQ queues for asynchronous communication between applications.  • Developed the RESTfulapi to support the Standalone as well as the SolrCloud mode, zookeeper, custom fields, NLP processing. Custom RequestHandlers, Sharding.  • The RESTapi includes Solr create, update, delete access to Solr 4/5 server.  • Custom Solr Request Handlers, Query Parsers, Queries and Scoring.  • Lucene/Solr tuning and profiling using jProfiler.  • Indexing Service using Solr / Lucene for catalog of services.  • Custom TF/IDF Lucene query parser and scoring algorithms.  • Site crawler using Jsoup, WSDL and direct HTML extraction using Jsoup.  • Lucene/Solr development. Replace local Luceneindex with Remote SOLR service that access LuceneIndex.  • Leveraged Solr API to search user interaction data for relevant matches.  • Encouraged development of testable code using interfaces and modular code. Introduced a culture of one junit test case for each functional module and have all db-driven functionality unit testable.  • Performing risk management and making sure that cost and schedule overruns are managed without VP level escalation.  • Assessing technical impact of new technologies. Moving technical resource from one module to other  • I have also designed and developed various functionalities from UI to back-end including Web-service, SOA development.  • Release planning and taking decisions on emergency patches, feature development and 11th over exclusion of functionality.  • Coordinating environment, application server, database, software upgrades and patches so that impact is minimal on development activities.  • Managing daily hand-off between on-shore and off-shore teams to ensure a smooth transition and use of multiple time zones across the globe to speed up the development cycle.  • Implemented the web services and associated business modules integration using Spring and HibernateORM framework.  • Using PL/SQL, written various stored procedures to enhance the performance.  • Creating development plan, effort estimation and work assignments to team  • Performing a role of 'Lead' in agile development.  • Defining responsibilities and reviewing deliverables for the sprints and stories.    Environment: Gerrit, Jenkins, REST, SOAP, CSRF, ReactJS, Java 8, Agile (XP, TDD, PP), ActiveMQ 5.3 & 5.7, JMS, ParasoftSOATest 6.x, SoapUI 3.5, Spring Boot 1.3.5, Spring 4.0.0, Hibernate 3.2, Apache Solr, Active Directory Studio, Novell eDirectory LDAP, Oracle 11g, Putty, Apache Tomcat 6.0, Apache Maven 3.2.3, GitHub, Linux (SUSE Enterprise v10) Java Developer San Jose, CA May 2016 to July 2017 Description: IHS Markit is the leading source of information and insight in critical areas that shape today's business landscape. Customers around the world rely on us to address strategic and operational challenges.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzing the business and functional requirements provided by the client.  • Worked on integration methodology and strategy including interface, data flow, and process flow.  • Used Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping (ORM) purposes for transparent persistence onto the Oracle 10g database using Hibernate Query language (HQL)  • Developed server side REST style web services and called them from backbone collections.  • Developed a single page, mobile-first, cross-device/cross-browser web application for real-time location sharing utilizing Angular.JS, JavaScript API.  • Responsible for setting up Angular.JS framework for UI development. Developed html views with HTML, CSS, bootstrap and Angular.JS.  • Developed presentation layer includes UI components, validations using HTML, applying styles using CSS, used JQuery to make Ajax calls.  • Bootstrap used along with AngularJS in creating the Application.  • Used Angular.js framework in developing various UI components.  • Implemented code according to coding standards and Created Angular.JS Controller, which Isolate scopes perform operations.  • Developed custom directives, Factories and Services in Angular.JS.  • Worked on responsive design in making the application compatible with desktop, tablet, mobile and also developed tabbed pages.  • Using Angular.JS created Responsive Web Design (RWD) and did data manipulations to display data in company standard format in UI.  • Used Declarative Transaction management system of SpringFramework and integrated it with JDBC and Hibernate transaction managers to customize transactional behavior  • Maintaining existing scripts and writing new scripts to automate the existing environment using Maven  • Designed front-end based on Bootstrap templates and embedded forms verification with JavaScript together with Regular Expression.  • Worked on unit and integration testing of the application.  • Used JavaScript to develop the front-end of the application.  • Created SQL queries, used functions, procedures and triggers.  • Wrote Web Services SOA, (SOAP, WSDL) for address validations. Implemented advanced javaAPI and core java for coding sophisticated business logic.  • Developed test suite framework and regression tests for rules and alerts engine, recovery engine, object manipulation functionality, import/export engine and user-defined function handling using JUNIT.  • Maintaining separate build in Maven for the module for easy integration to the portal build and configure with Jenkins.  • Wrote Jasmine unit tests using Karma to verify Angular.JS modules and JavaScript utility routines.  • Improved database performance by recognizing and rewriting slow queries.  • Solid deployment experience on the UNIX platform.  • Used SpringFramework to organize middle-tier applications.    Environment: Java JDK1.7, J2EE, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Log4J, UML, AJAX, WebLogic 10.3, Hibernate 3.0, Oracle 10g, SQL, PL/SQL, HTTP, HTTPS, Windows, Web Services, Unix, Bootstrap, SOA, SOAP, WSDL, SSO, SAML, IntelliJ IDEA, Junit, XML/XSL, Maven, Spring 3.0 Java Developer Anthem Inc - Norfolk, VA January 2015 to April 2016 Description: Anthem, Inc. is an American health insurance company founded in the 1940s, prior to 2014 known as WellPoint, Inc. It is the largest for-profit managed health care company in the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association.    Responsibilities:  • Analyze and write detailed design specifications, traceability matrix sheet and test requirements.  • Conducted Agile and Waterfall vision and strategy presentations to managers, investors, partners and sponsors  • Developed and coded interfaces, classes and created appropriate relationship between system classes and interfaces.  • Extensively involved in system architecture, software development, database design, deployment, testing, performance tuning, and maintenance for large-scale, web-based and distributed J2EE projects.  • Developed and implemented front-end applications using AdobeDreamweaver. Designed and developed UI using JSP, JavaScript, and jQuery, HTML, CSS and AJAX.  • Implemented transaction management, high level authentication and authorization, logging and Exception Handling using SpringSecurity and AOP.  • Used concepts such as synchronization and thread pools.  • Springframework was leveraged for Inversion of Control (IOC), Spring JDBC; SpringAOP based Transaction management and Unit testing  • Used Message Driven Beans with JMSAPIs for asynchronous communication  • Implemented Web Service calls for data parsing and server interaction using spring, Threads, JSON, SOAP, RESTAPI and Apache.  • Developed EJB's for implementing business logic and actively involved in deploying application on JBoss application server.  • Developed persistence layer module using EJBjava persistence API annotations and Entity manager.  • Involved in working with JAVA APIs used to establish communication between JavaBeans.  • Implemented several design patterns like MVC, BusinessDelegate, ServiceLocator, DAO, DTO and Factory.  • Used XML web services using SOAP to transfer the remote application to different institutions.  • Developed web services to allow communication between applications through SOAP over HTTP using Axis-2  • Used I BATISframework with SpringFramework for data persistence and transaction management.  • Actively involved in coding using CoreJava and collection API's such as Lists, Sets and Maps  • Working on parsing the XML using DOM/SAX parsers.  • Created stored procedures using SQL for data modification.  • Actively used Eclipse IDE for building, developing and integrating the application.  • Deployed the developed application on Tomcat application server  • Developed JUnit test cases for integration testing and integrated with ANT build tool.  • Fixed many bugs and handled interfacing issues while deploying application on Tomcat application server.  • Actively guided support team in live issues during deployment in Tomcat server.  • Extensively involved in code review and documentation review of technical artifacts.    Environment: Agile/Scrum, Java, JSP, JQuery, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, AJAX, XML, EJB, SAX, DOM, SOAP, Java Beans, SQL Server, Eclipse, Tomcat, ANT, JIRA, Log4j, SVN, MS Office, MS Visio, MS Project, Spring, HP Quality Center, J Boss Java/ J2EE Developer DST Systems - Kansas City, MO May 2013 to December 2014 Description: DST Systems, Inc. is an American provider of advisory, technology and operations outsourcing to the financial and healthcare industries, with more than 13, 000 employees worldwide.    Responsibilities:  • Working in analysis and design phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  • Working on use cases, interface definitions and web services specifications in collaboration with Business and System Analysts and Architecture Group.  • Good understanding on messaging queues like Kafka  • Built the Responsive UI screens using HTML 5, CSS 3 and twitter Bootstrap.  • Responsible for converting designed mock-ups to HTML pages using HTML5, CSS and jQuery.  • Established pages using CSS to maintain the uniformity of all the screens throughout the application and positioning of screen objects.  • Worked with AJAX data consisting of JSON/XML/JSONP responses, parsing the same and presenting on the UI layer.  • Created the web service in Apache axis2 1.4.1 framework by using the SOAwith Web services, XML, XSLT, WSDL and JAXB and used SOAP protocol to retrieve the data.  • Experience in writing business rules as a rule engine using Drools.  • Used spring security features to impersonate user without password by making use of RESTful web services.  • Extensive experience of developing Representational state transfer (REST) based services and Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) based services.  • Designed Frontend with in object-oriented JavaScript libraries like React.js.  • Used React.js for building composable and reactive user interfaces.  • Implemented various screens for the front end using React.js and Redux library.  • Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application.  • Involved in using React.js components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Fluxconcept.  • Used Redux for the higher order decoration for wrapping each component with UI state and actions.  • Extensive knowledge of Spring to build Restful and MVC applications and service endpoints, used dependency injection with XML and annotation-based configuration styles.  • Developed Web Services rules using Drools rule engine.  • Extensively used and wrote the Stored Procedures for performance.  • JAX-WS for creating service endpoints for contest engine which can be consumed by other vendors, JAXB, JAX-RS for restful services, JAXB. Also consumed 3rd party SOA services.  • Used SCRUM methodology, for the implementation of SDLC.  • Involved in code reviews developed by the team to make sure they met the business requirements and enforced best coding standards on day to day basis.  • Provided technical decision support for the system and business analysts  • Worked in production support for Infrastructure application after rolling out. Participated in seven-day, 24/7 support rotation - diagnosed and fixed the issues    Environment: Java 1.6, MQ, Kafka, JSF 2.0, Spring 3.0, Hibernate 3.0, EJB 3.3, Java Web Services (REST, JAX-WS), JNDI, AJAX, Web services, Apache Axis 2.0, Eclipse 3.4, J Boss Application Server 7.0, DROOLS 4.0, Java Beans, Prime faces, Clear case, ClearQuest, UML, MS Visio, XML, XHTML, DHTML, JavaScript, Log4j, JAXB, Git, HTML5, CSS3, Jersey, Angular 4, Node.js, React.JS, XSL, Oracle 11g, SQL, SQL Navigator, PL/SQL, ANT Script. Web Developer Yash Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana December 2011 to April 2013 Description: YASH is a well-regarded, global IT service provider, with customers in a number of industries. YASH provides a comprehensive portfolio of services and solutions that not only solve today's IT challenges, but also address tomorrow's business priorities.    Responsibilities:  • Participated in requirements gathering, analysis, Conceptual Design and Details.  • Implemented AJAX based UI with above said Architecture with Rich Internet UI in modules.  • Manipulated CSS, HTML and DHTML, JavaScript for presenting appealing GUI.  • Worked on jQuery extensively for various user interactions, front-end validations and other visual effects.  • Worked extensively on web 2.0 migrations from Conventional WebFrame work to Ajax driven framework and extensively used jQuery, AJAX and MVC in Presentation Layer.  • Used JavaScript and CSS for UI Design Mockup. Developed custom jQuery plug-ins for custom functionality of the site.  • Developing Prototype for the project using Ajax, Hardcoded JSON, jQuery, OO JavaScript, HTML, and CSS.  • Developed web-based ad sales team application, implemented AJAX based framework, developed CSS layout prototyped the application and demonstrated to advertiser, business user and to end-users.  • Used jQuery CSS selectors, toggles, and hover functionality, ToolTip, Ajax Forms and ExtJS Layout.  • Worked on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, and CSS Border.  • Developed tested cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  • Developed plug-in which is like jQuery plug-in using our OO JavaScript function.  • Worked on JavaScript Event model along with dynamic grid creation and Layout management.  • Worked on the debugging, fixing and testing the existing bugs in the JavaScriptFramework and adding new features to the application.  • Developed HTML interfaces with an understanding of UI design principles and object-oriented program development. Used LOG4J, JUnit for debugging, testing and maintaining the system state.  • Wrote JUnit Test cases for Spring Controllers and Web Service Clients in Service Layer using Mockito.  • Designed and developed the application using AGILE-SCRUM methodology. Software Developer ADP Inc - Hyderabad, Telangana February 2010 to November 2011 Hyderabad, Telangana  February 2010 to November 2011  Description: ADP India is a subsidiary of ADP Inc., the leading Human Capital Management solution providers in the world.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented UI layer using Flex and business layer using Spring MVC and developed persistence layer using Hibernate.  • Designing Flex UI components as well as development of Flex custom components.  • Created DDL, DML scripts to create tables and privileges on respective tables in the database.  • Developed Test Frameworks in Selenium.  • Collaborated on design specification reviews together with Business Analysts.  • Designing the database and coding of SQL, PL/SQL, Triggers and Views using IBM DB2.  • Design patterns of Delegates, Data Transfer Objects and Data Access Objects.  • Developed Message Driven Beans for asynchronous processing of alerts.  • Used Clear Case for source code control and JUnit for unit testing. Extensively used RemoteObjects to retrieve data from the remote server and perform required business functionalities from the front end.  • Used spring framework modules like Core container module, Application context module, SpringAOP module, Spring ORM and Spring MVC module.  • Configured Spring Application-Context.xml used by spring container to inject dependencies to javaclasses to optimize memory resources.  • Implemented Spring IoC (Dependency Injection) and Spring Aspect Oriented Programming (AOP) for the Business as well as Lookup Service Layer development.  • Responsible for the oracle schema design, generating various POJO objects and generating their corresponding Hibernate mappings (.hbm) files.  • Consumed WebServices for getting the credit card information from third party application.  • Used Singleton and DAO design pattern.  • Test Driven development is done by maintaining the Junit and FlexUnit test cases throughout the application.  • Log package is used for the debugging.  • Used ClearCase for version control.  • Developed User Interfaces using JSP, and HTML.  • Developed HTML, Swing and JSP pages for user interaction and data presentation.  • Worked extensively on front end development for BA using JSP, HTML, CSS, Java Script, etc.  • Extensive coding knowledge in developing UI for enterprise web applications using HTML, JavaScript, XML, AJAX adhering to enterprise UI Standards    Environment: Java, J2EE, Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Flex, Action Script, MXML, XML, XSD, Java script, Blaze DS, Cairngorm MVC Framework, IBM RAD, ClearCase, Oracle 10g, Log4j, Weblogic, Sql, DbVisualizer, Webservices, Agile, ClearQuest, Maven, UML (Rational Rose), HTML, CSS and Windows 2000 Prof. Skills jQuery (8 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (7 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (7 years), MVC (7 years), JAVA (7 years) Additional Information Skills  JAVA (8 years), XML (8 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (7 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (7 years), MVC (7 years)    TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages Java 8 (JDK 1.4/1.5/1.6/1.7/1.8), Java Swings, JSF, JUnit, Log4J, Ant, Maven, Python, Ruby on Rails.  Methodologies/Design patterns OOAD, OOP, UML, MVC, DAO, Factory pattern, Session Façade, Singleton, Agile, Scrum, Test Driven Development.  Web Technologies  JSP, Servlets, AngularJs, jQuery, React.JS, Node.JS, EJB, Hibernate, Struts, Spring, JDBC, HTML5, DHTML and XML, CSS3, Web Services, WSDL, SOAP, MQ Series, Apache Camel, Kafka, Spring Boot, Express.js, J2EE, JSP, JMS, JNDI, XSL, Spring Web Services, Log4j    Web Services SOAP, RESTful Web Services  Frameworks Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Web Flow, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Groovy.  Application/Web Servers JBoss, Glassfish 2.1, WebLogic, Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat Server.  IDE Tools Eclipse (Juno, Galileo, Helios, Indigo), Rational Application Developer (RAD) and NetBeans, STS.  OR Mapping Hibernate, IBATIS.  Databases Oracle 11g, MySQL, SQL, MongoDB.  Reporting/Messaging Tools Crystal Reports, BO XI R3, Active MQ, Rabbit MQ.  Cloud AWS.  Version Control Tools CVS, SVN, Clear Case, Git  Testing Selenium, Karma.  Tools  Rational Rose 2000, JBuilder 3.5/5.0, Visual Cafe 4.0, Visual Age Java 3.5, eclipse 3.X, MS-Office, Front Page, Ultra Edit 32, Clear Case, iReport -1.2.5.    Operating System Windows, Linux, Unix, Mac, Solaris.