MuleSoft&Java Developer/Application Programmer MuleSoft&amp;Java <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Application Programmer MuleSoft&Java Developer NJ • Around 5 years of experience in object-oriented analysis, design and development using Java/JEE technologies and in MULE ESB   • Seeking a challenging, growth-oriented career opportunity where my strong analytical and problem-solving skills will be utilized.  • Proficient in SDLC (analysis, design, development, testing and deployment) using Waterfall, Kanban & Agile development methodologies.  • Proficient in user interface technologies including HTML, JavaScript, CSS.  • Proficient in Core Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Webservices (SOAP, REST) and concepts like Exception handling, Multi-threading, Collections framework, OOPS concepts, Java Patterns etc.  • Experienced in Implementing API Security protocols using OAuth 2.0, SAML and PingFederate  • Proficient in SQL & PL/SQL, stored procedures, Functions, Export/Import using Oracle.  • Proficient in Mule ESB and Developed integration workflows using MuleSoft ESB 3.9 framework  • Proficient in Building Flows and Sub-flows using Connectors, Transformers, Filters in MULESOFT.  • Experienced in designing, developing and testing custom REST API using RAML  • Adept Knowledge and experience on MuleSoft expression language (MEL) and Data Weave to access payload data, properties and Variable of message flow.  • Experience in creating build scripts using Ant, Maven and Gradle tools and experience in implementation of the version control software SVN, CVS, Git  • Effective communication and interpersonal skills, ability to work in a team/independently and adapt quickly to new and emerging technologies Work Experience MuleSoft&Java Developer/Application Programmer BANK OF AMERICA, NJ August 2017 to Present Description:  RDR (Reference Data Repository) is data warehousing system to distribute HR and Finance data for hundreds of down streams in various distribution methods DB Connect, Files and Web Services. Platform has many  custom frameworks like Straight Through Revocation, Data Quality, OUS Record Retention to control down streams per GIS compliance.    • Involved in Agile - Scrum methodologies to do requirements gathering, analysis and sprint planning.  • Involved in complete SDLC phase of Mule API's and worked with Business as well as Support Teams.  • Created Enterprise Level RAML based REST API's using MuleSoft.  • Created API proxies and applied custom policies on Mule Gateway Server  • Worked on DataWeave and Mule Expression Language (MEL) to create Custom Datatype, Message Transformations and to access payload, Message Properties across the flows  • Worked on API portals and RAML documentation for REST API.  • Used Choice Router for Content based Routing and worked on Multiple connectors like File, Database, SMTP  • Worked extensively on Mule Application and API Management using Runtime Manager and API Manager  • Extensively worked on API performance using Scatter-Gatherer, Async scope etc.  • Created validation classes for Validator Component and used Connectors, Components, Filters and Scopes across Mule flows.  • Created Flows, Sub Flows, Exception strategy and Global Components to develop Mule applications.  • Involved in deployment of Mule applications to on-premise server and performed unit testing using MUnit.  • Worked on WORKDAY, ARM & Salesforce integrations for data exchange using Multi-thread Java applications via SOAP & REST Web Services.  • Extensively used Spring IOC, Dependency Injection (DI), Spring Annotations to develop Java applications.  • Worked with Java NIO, Collection Framework and Multi-threading to develop concurrent applications.  • Used advanced Multi-threading Concepts like Executor Framework, Timer Task and Concurrent collections in designing Multi-threaded Java Frameworks.  • Worked on developing and consuming secured API's using 0Auth 2.0 Authorization framework.  • Used Toad for Oracle and created SQLs and database object like tables, views, Procedures for various functionalities and data validations.  • Utilized Log4j framework of logging and worked on custom Log4j classes for DB, Server logging.  • Wrote UNIX, JIL Shell Scripts to Run applications for Autosys invocations in different Environments.  • Worked with Splunk for Centralized log Monitoring and created critical Validations and security reports.  • Used AppDynamics for Server status Monitoring and created alerts for support teams.  • Worked with QA team and involved in functional and unit Testing of applications using tool like Junit, Postman.    Software: Java 7/8, J2EE, MuleSoft Any Point Studio 6.4.4, RAML 1.0, Spring Framework, Autosys, Oracle 11g, Linux, SOAP, RESTful Web services, API Manager 2.x, Runtime Manager, Mule 3.9, API Gateway, API Portals, Splunk, AppDynamics. Java Developer/ Programmer Analyst ANJS Technologies, NJ January 2017 to August 2017 • Involved in requirement gathering, analysis and design of the system  • Involved in status meetings and Discussions of project according to Kanban Methodologies.  • Worked on Design and development of a flexible and highly dynamic framework for File Transfer using SFTP protocol.  • Worked on developing Business component for SFTP using Jsch Library.  • Used Spring Framework for the development of server-side components using Dependency-Injection/IOC  • Used core Java concepts like Collections, multithreading while developing server-side services.  • Developed web services using Restful technology to support JSON using JAX-RS.  • Designed & Created DB Model, database objects i.e., Tables, Views and SQL Scripts.  • Involved in Unit, System and Integration testing using JUNIT and Mockito framework.  • Used Jenkins, Maven, Bit Bucket for building and deploying Build Artifacts  • Used JIRA for bug tracking, issue tracking and project management    Software: Java, Spring Framework, Eclipse, oracle, Log4j, UNIX, Bit Bucket, UNIT. Java Developer MICOTAG - IN May 2013 to June 2015 • Analyzed business requirements, participated in technical design, development and testing of various modules assigned.  • Contributed in development and implementation of Mobile Software Webservices REST API.  • Developed dashboard for Authentication, Provisioning of Tags, Log Monitoring, Usage Pattern and other widgets using HTML, CSS, Ajax, jQuery.  • Used POSTMAN for testing the APIs directly as a part of the integration testing to determine if they meet expectations for functionality, reliability, performance and security.  • Developed Server-side components to communicate Amazon S3, SQS, SNS, RDS and Barcode Generation, Session Token, Authentication.  • Developed transcoding algorithm to convert audio/video files into MP4 format using FFMPEG API and implemented Multi-Threaded service to process the messages.  • Designed & Created DB Model, database objects i.e., Tables, Views and SQL Scripts for the UI. Created complex SQL queries for generic reporting framework.    Software: Java, Spring Framework, Web Services, Eclipse, AWS, MySQL, Apache, Tomcat, Subversion, Log4j, UNIX. Education Master's in Computer and Information Science Kent State University Bachelor's in JNTU, India JNTU Skills Java, Java J2Ee, Spring, Mulesoft, SQL Certifications/Licenses MuleSoft Certified Developer - Level 1(Mule 4) March 2019 to March 2021 MCD - API Design Associate June 2019 to June 2021 SAFe4 Agile Practitioner Certification. Present Java 7 SE Programmer - Oracle Certified Associate. Present