Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - Sprint • Around 7 years of experience in analysis, design, development and implementation of, enterprise and web applications, with skills in wide range of Java technologies.  • Good understanding of the System Development life cycle (Requirement, Design, Development, Testing, Deployment and support).  • Experience in developing applications in Ecommerce, Online Content Management, Financial and health care domain.  • Experience with development, implementation and maintenance of large web/portal application systems using J2EE technologies (using Core Java, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JMS,Spring, Multithreading, Hibernate, XML, Web service, Axis, NetBeans, Eclipse, Gradle, Maven.  • Experienced in designing, developing and implementing J2EE applications using design patterns like MVC, Singleton, Front Controller, Session Façade Data Access Object, Factory and Service Locator.  • Experienced in working with spring frameworks and ORM mapping tools like Hibernate, which implements Java Persistence API (JPA).  • Good experience in MVC (Model View Controller) architecture using Spring, IOC, AOP, JDBC ,JPA, spring web flow, JTA, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud and Spring Batch.  • Worked on java 8 functional programming concepts like lambda expressions, functional interfaces and Streams.  • Proficiency in front end development languages like JSP, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, JQUERY, AJAX, JSON, XML, AngularJS, Bootstrap.  • Experienced in developing Restful webservices.  • Experience in using PL/SQL in Oracle, MS SQL Server for developing database objects. And having knowledge of NoSQL database like MongoDB.  • Experienced with JUnit for unit testing using Mockito.  • Experienced with build tools include Maven, Gradle and Jenkins. Version/Source Control tools like GitHub. IDE tools like Eclipse, Spring STS, and Oracle Jdeveloper.  • Followed Waterfall, Agile methodologies like Test Driven Development (TDD) and Pair Programming  • Used Continuous delivery / Continuous Integration (CD/CI) tools Docker, Jenkins to deploy this application to AWS along with GIT for Version Control of code for incremental development.  • Worked on various application servers and web server Tomcat. Work Experience Full Stack Developer Sprint - Overland Park, KS November 2017 to Present Project: Sprint Business serves companies of all sizes including enterprise clients, medium-sized companies and small businesses. The company provide wide portfolios of wireless, wireline and Internet of Things (IoT) products and services on a network that is built for business. Also provides wide range of customized wireless programs for businesses and organizations to help meet objectives for sales, customer service and connecting employees throughout their companies    Sprint Business provides competitive, customized pricing to our enterprise and medium-sized customers based on their length of contract and volume of products and services used. Small business also may receive customized pricing or may take advantage of some plans and promotions tailored just for businesses of their size.    Key Responsibilities:  • Developed user interface using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JSON, Ajax, jQuery, and jQuery UI.  • Applying HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and Angular JS support for creating and maintaining user interface side.  • Designed and developed service layer using spring with Inversion control.  • Developed Spring Container and Controller classes.  • Experience in Java Message Oriented Middleware (MOM) using JMS and Apache ActiveMQ.  • Implemented Spring Controller layer with dependency wiring, transaction for claims transactions.  • Used Spring MVC to implement Design Patterns like Singleton and Factory patterns.  • Developed server-side classes to interact with the database using Spring Boot and Hibernate.  • Develop ORM mapping classes using Hibernate.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC framework like Node.js.  • Implemented JavaScript MVC pattern for the web presentation layer.  • Implemented micro-services for admin module in the application.  • Developed Message Driven Bean (MDB) components in WebSphereMQ Series for e-mailing and Data transfer between client and the providers.  • Implemented Restful web services using Spring Boot and performed CRUD operations on database, published the REST services and parsed the data from project to the client.  • Handled the security, authorization and authentication on the application using Spring Security.  • Implemented JUnit tests for all the service components.  • Involved in SCRUM meetings, had done sprint planning every two weeks and setup daily stand up meeting to monitor the status.  • Used Maven as a build tool and Jenkins for Continuous integration and Continuous Deployment tool.  • Experience in creating Clusters, File transfers and Integration Nodes in WebSphereMQ explorer.  • Involved in setting up AWS services with EC2 instances, S3 bucket, IAM, RDS took part in deploying application in AWS along with writing and retrieving files to and from AWSS3bucket for UI to render data faster.  • Use of open-source technologies are used extensively to provide leading-edge solutions - REST, Redis, ActiveMQ.  • Implemented Micro Services based Cloud Architecture on AWS Platform and Cloud Foundry.  • Developed scripts for build, deployment, maintenance, and related tasks using Jenkins, Docker, Maven.  • Configured Maven to create docker images for microservices and pushed it to Amazon ECR.  • Worked on JIRA reporting tool to report versions, epics, sprints, issues etc.    Environment: Eclipse, JDK 1.8, Java 8, Spring IOC4.0, Spring Boot1.3, HTML, CSS3, Angular 5, java script, JQuery, JQuery UI, Bootstrap, Hibernate 4.3, ActiveMQ , Web Services, Oracle 11g, Gradle 3.0, WebsphereMQ , Git, AWS S3, Docker, Tomcat 8.5. Sr. Full Stack Java Developer Verizon Wireless - Hazlet, NJ July 2016 to May 2017 Project: Verizon transforms how people, businesses and things connect with each other. Company provides customers to add more wireless devices and find more ways to use them, we're constantly increasing the density of our network. Since 2000, the company invested more than $126 billion to meet today's surging demand for wireless data and video, and to get our network ready for 5G wireless technology.  The company commitment to network excellence has kept us at the top of RootMetrics U.S. National Root Score report rankings of wireless carriers in overall, reliability, data and call performance for eleven straight reports in a row.    Key Responsibilities:  • Design and Develop Dynamic Single Page Application using Angular 4/5.  • Develop and migrated existing applications built in Angular 1.5 to Angular 4.  • Implemented 2-way data binding and used ng-filters across the applications.  • Develop custom directives, controllers, views and filters using Angular 4.  • Develop CSS3 style sheets to give gradient effects. Developed page layouts, navigation and icons. Applied industry best practices and standards when project requirements were lagging.  • Implemented and migrated some of the components to Angular 5.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 5  • Develop GUI using JavaScript, HTML5, DOM, XHTML, AJAX, CSS, Share point in ongoing projects.  • Converted the mock-ups into hand-written HTML, CSS (2/3), XHTML, JavaScript, D3, jQuery, AJAX, XML and JSON.  • Hands-on a service-oriented approach (SOA) using WebsphereMQ for integration.  • Involved in the design, development and testing phases of life cycle using AGILE methodology - Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Worked on installing and configuring ActiveMQ for durable message service  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Node.js.  • Develop server-side classes to interact with database using Spring Boot and Hibernate.  • Develop ORM mapping classes using Hibernet3.  • Working on CSS Pre-processors like LESS along with JavaScript task runners like Grunt.  • Design and develop Restful API using Spring Boot.  • Implemented Micro-services for admin module in the application.  • Responsible for setting up Jenkins in AWS for Continuous integration and enabled web hooks to trigger the builds and used cloud formation to create the Jenkins stack in AWS.  • Used AWS Elastic bean stack to run the application backend and used AWS Code pipeline continuous delivery service.  • Extensively worked on finding out the bugs, broken links and missing images etc. and rectifying them and used debugging tools like Firebug to fix front end defects.  • Develop unit test classes for UI components using Jasmine.  • Architected JMS with Spring which involves setting up ActiveMQ message broker, declared ActiveMQ message destinations and also implemented Spring's JMS Gateway Support class as a base class for JMS gateway classes.  • Extensive experience with Agile development environment with Scrum, Sprint.  • Attending the daily sprint calls and updated product team with status.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, LESS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, Bootstrap, Typescript, Angular2/4/5, Typescript, Node.js, Agile, MySQL, Java, Spring Boot, Micro-services, Maven, Firebug, Jasmine, Grunt, IntelliJ Java Developer AOL - Herndon, VA August 2015 to June 2016 Project: An online service provider (OSP) can, for example, be an Internet service provider, an email provider, a news provider (press), an entertainment provider, a search engine, an e-commerce site, an online banking site, a health site, an official government site, social media, a wiki, or a Usenet newsgroup. In its original more limited definition, it referred only to a commercial computer communication service in which paid members could dial via a computer modem the service's private computer network and access various services and information resources such a bulletin boards, downloadable files and programs, news articles, chat rooms, and electronic mail services. The term "online service" was also used in references to these dial-up services. The traditional dial-up online service differed from the modern Internet service provider in that they provided a large degree of content that was only accessible by those who subscribed to the online service, while ISP mostly serves to provide access to the Internet and generally provides little if any exclusive content of its own.  Key Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirement gathering, designing, development, UI reviews, and maintenance.  • Design and Develop Dynamic Single Page Application using Angular 4/5.  • Involved in the design, development and testing phases of life cycle using AGILE methodology - Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Involved in writing applications using Angular 1.5, ECMAScript 6.  • Develop custom directives, controllers, views and filters using Angular 4.  • Develop CSS3 style sheets to give gradient effects. Developed page layouts, navigation and icons. Applied industry best practices and standards when project requirements were lagging.  • Develop GUI using JavaScript, HTML5, DOM, XHTML, AJAX, CSS in ongoing projects.  • Developed and migrated existing applications built in Angular 1.5 to Angular 4.  • Worked on Angular Concepts like using Structural directives, Event binding, Property binding and Dependency Injection.  • Used Angular JS framework to bind HTML (views) to JavaScript objects (models).  • Worked on Angular 5 routing and navigation functionality to navigate through different pages.  • Implemented Various Custom Pipes for grouping the data.  • Implemented 2-way data binding and used ng-filters across the applications.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  • Used npm package managers to get the dependencies.  • Wrote application level code to interact with the backend databases using jQuery, AJAX and JSON.  • Working on CSS Pre-processors like LESS along with JavaScript task runners like Grunt.  • Develop custom directives, controllers, views and filters using Angular 4.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Node.js.  • Using Grunt for automated building of application including unit testing (Jasmine /Karma).  • Used GIT and Source Tree as a part of development.  • Extensively worked on finding out the bugs, broken links and missing images etc. and rectifying them and used debugging tools like Firebug to fix front end defects.  • Fetch data from MongoDB using Mongoose of Node.js.  • Extensive experience with Agile development environment with Scrum, Sprint etc.  • Attending the daily sprint calls and updated product team with status.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, LESS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, Bootstrap, Typescript, Angular2/4/5, Typescript, Node.js, Agile, MySQL, Java, Spring Boot, Micro-services, Maven, Firebug, Jasmine, Grunt, IntelliJ Java Developer InfoTech Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2013 to October 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the design and development of the entire application.  • Involved in designing and developing dynamic web pages using HTML and JSP with Struts tag libraries.  • Involved in development of JavaScript code for Client Side Validations.  • Designed the HTML based web pages for displaying the reports.  • Used Net beans IDE and jBoss application server to implement Java EE part.  • Involved in the overall system development with JSP, Servlets and WebLogic etc.  • Developed Java classes and JSP files.  • Used Log4j for logging Java applications.  • Wrote JUnit test cases to test the functionality of each method in the DAO layer.  • Used Clear case for Software Configuration Management and Ant.  • Extensively used XML documents with XSLT and CSS to translate the content into HTML to present to GUI.  • Developed dynamic content of presentation layer using JSP.  • Implemented transferring of XML data to the database using JDBC.  • Worked on WebLogic application server to deploy JSP and EJB applications.  • Developed Struts filters for various server side processing modules.  • Used UNIX and LINUX scripts for creating a batch processing scheduler for JMS Queue    Environment: Core Java, J2EE, EJB, JSP, Java Script, Servlets, JDBC, Struts, WSDL, jBoss, Junit, Log4j, Clear case, EJB, Ant, Apache tomcat sever, HTML, XML, XSLT, Eclipse, Unix and Linux Education Vision Infotech November 2014 to July 2015 Skills Ajax (3 years), AWS (2 years), Eclipse (2 years), Git (2 years), HTML (4 years), HTML5 (3 years), J2EE (1 year), Java (4 years), JavaScript (4 years), jBoss (1 year), JIRA (1 year), jQuery (3 years), JSON (3 years), JUnit (2 years), Maven (3 years), Model View Controller (3 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (3 years), MVC (3 years), MySQL (1 year), XML (2 years)