Salesforce Developer Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span> Salesforce Developer - FirstNationalBank Omaha, NE 8 years of IT experience including 8 years in Salesforce.com CRM Platform.  • Experience in the complete SDLC of a project with proficiency in detailed analysis of business, gathering technical requirements, Development, Testing and Deployment.  • Proficiency in administrative tasks like creating profiles, roles, users, page layouts, email services, Approvals, Workflows, Reports, Dashboards, Tasks, Data Validation and Data Utilities.  • Experience in SFDC development using Apex classes and Triggers, Visual Force, Force.com IDE, SOQL, SOSL.  • Experience of using declarative features like validation rules, Assignment rules, Auto-Response rules, Escalation Rules for satisfying complex business process automations.  • Ability to effectively translate Salesforce data into business understandable metrics using Reports  (Matrix, Summary, Tabular, and Joint), Analytical Snapshots, and Dashboards.  • Used different data tools - Apex Data Loader, Excel Connector, Import Wizard, SFDC Data Export, Mass Delete etc.  • Integrated with external system using Web Services Callouts for cleansing the Address and save the data in the pages of salesforce.com.  • Sales, Marketing, Customer Service and Customer Support, Business processes and recommended solutions to improve their processes using Salesforce.com. Knowledge in Object Oriented Languages.  • Experienced in building Custom Applications that includes administration, configuration, implementing and support experience with Salesforce.com platform.  • Proficient in Data Migration from Traditional Applications to Salesforce using Data Loader Utility, Apex Data Loader and Informatica.  • Designed and developed SOAP based web services to integrate Salesforce with different external system.  • Experience in working on Sales Cloud as well as Service Cloud.  • Excellent communication and documentation skills.  • Proven ability to steer, manage and deliver comes on time and on budget, with a dynamical angle.  • A self-motivated and result oriented team player with an ability to adapt, learn and deliver quickly. Work Experience Salesforce Developer FirstNationalBank - Omaha, NE February 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Performed the role of a Developer and Administrator in the organization.  • Worked on various salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Opportunity, Products Opportunity Line Items, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, Activities, Reports and Dashboards.  • Extensively worked on building complex Visualforce pages (Executive Priority page, Customer value Capture page) using standard, custom and extension controllers to suit the needs of the application.  • Managing the end-to-end technical delivery for multiple Salesforce, Veeva, and Siebel and custom applications  • Worked on Veeva including System Configuration, to make business processes social, to collaborate in real-time from anywhere, with Chatter.  • Created marketing campaign using Exact Target, monitor their run and reporting and configured salesforce and marketing cloud integration user along with configuration in salesforce  • Configuring workflows, users, fields, states, roles, products, security groups in Veeva Vault.  • Worked on Veeva Vault integration with Veeva CRM, CLM admin tab configurations.  • Designed, developed, tested and deployed custom Salesforce applications software using APEX Classes, Controller Classes, Batch APEX and APEX Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Created Formula Fields, Validation Rules, Workflow Business rules and Approvals processes for the flexibility and functionality of force platform application.  • Proficient in writing SOQL and SOSL queries within custom Controllers and triggers.  • Involved in Salesforce.com application setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization.  • Used Community cloud to build deeper relationship with customers to provide better service and assist them through online.  • Worked on automating command prompt Apex Data loader for loading .CSV files into salesforce.com.  • Involved in designing the architecture of integrating various external systems to Salesforce.com.  • Configured, maintained Salesforce.com application user profiles, roles, assigning Permissions, Sharing Rules, Queues, Generating security tokens, validation Rule.  • Experience in Salesforce.com Configuration and Design of Service Cloud, Sales Cloud and Force.com solutions, with an emphasis on Service Cloud solutions.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Veeva, APEX Language, Visualforce (Pages, Component & Controllers), Salesforce.com Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Security Controls, HTML, Java Script, Web Services, WSDL, Sandbox, Eclipse IDE Plug-ins. Salesforce Developer/Administrator CVSHealth - Woonsocket, RI March 2017 to February 2019 Responsibilities:  • Multiple discussions on the requirements, issues and suggestions on solutions in relation to the SFDC environment for Proof of Concept demo and for customer endorsement.  • Subject matter expert in identifying, planning and implementing new Salesforce.com and Lightning Experience features and functions new screens, workflow, force.com objects, reports and Apex code to meet business requirements.  • Created users, roles, public groups and implemented role hierarchies, sharing rules and record level permissions to manage sharing access among different users.  • Created External data sources using Lightning connect to connect to SAP end-point. Created Lightning Component Tabs and Visualforce Tabs.  • Created a user interface using Aura components, CSS, Bootstrap for a user to enter case details and submit in to Salesforce.  • Used SOQL & SOSL for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects and Developed UI containing angular/jQuery in Salesforce  • Performed the detailed analysis of functional and technical requirements, designed & deployed the custom objects, identified the lookup and master-detail relationships, and created the junction objects. Demonstrated ability to translate customer requirements into specification.  • Provided data access reports to Compliance and Security ensuring that data and roles are properly defined and transparent.  • Implemented Email-to-Case, Web-to-Case entry and manual case entry for entering customer's cases in Cases Tab and created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on record pages.  • Involved in Service cloud and Sales cloud for Implementation/Customization.  • Managed and maintained Marketo marketing automation platform.  • Used Data Loader for insert, update, and bulk import or export of data from Salesforce.com subjects. Used it to read, extract and load data from comma separated values (CSV) files.  • Developed and configured various Reports and Report Folders for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  • Created custom object creations with multiple record types, page lay outs, custom buttons, validation rules and apex triggers.  • Deployed Customizations from Sandbox to production Environment by creating Change Sets and using the ANT Migration tool.  • Created custom reports and dashboards outlining key sales metrics for upper level management and provided daily administration and support to Marketing Cloud.  • Business Process and Sales Process creation for Direct & Channel Sales, as well as Marketing Workflow Integration (Marketo) (Exact target)  • Developed Analytic Snapshots to dump the data on regular basis for the sales performance and lead generation statistics.  • Worked with Exact Target marketing automation suite for email, landing pages, camping web analytics, lead scoring, assert management, and trigger workflow.  • Worked with Multi-Currency, Product and Price book set-ups.  • Migrated data from Traditional Applications to Salesforce using APEX Data Loader and Informatica on Demand.  • Experience in working with salesforce Marketing Cloud applications for APT automation testing for restful services using MCAT Framework.  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Used Service Max App exchange field service for efficiently managing the customer contracts and configured relations between service max and SFDC.  • Used Force.com developer toolkit including Apex Classes, Apex Triggers and Visualforce pages to develop custom business logic.  • Used Service Max App exchange field service for efficiently managing the customer contracts.  • Built, measured and managed company marketing campaigns within Marketo, a marketing automation software.  • Worked on installing and integrating ApttusCPQ and Apttus approvals package with Salesforce Sales process.  • Implemented CPQ (Configure Price Quote) solution using ApttusCPQ & Contract Management and also used Apttus CPQ to configure price and quotes for the organization based on regional prices. Managed CPQ process from both SFDC opportunity and excel.  • Developed Visualforce Pages and Components to include extra functionality and developed Apex Classes to provide functionality to the visual pages.  • Worked with various Salesforce.com standard objects like Users, Contacts, Reports, Dashboards  • Worked on complete life cycle of SFDC Implementation.  • Performed the roles of Salesforce.com Analyst/ Developer and Administrator in the organization.  Environment: Saleforce.com CRM platform, Force.com Sites, Apex, Apttus, Visual force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Pages, Data Loader, Marketo, Exact Target, HTML, , Workflow & Approvals, REST, SOAP, Community cloud, Reports, Service Cloud, Sales Cloud, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, XML, ETL Informatica, MYSQL, Email Services, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Salesforce Mobile, web Services, Agile. Salesforce Developer/ Analyst GE Power - Atlanta, GA September 2015 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  • Closely worked with end users and functional leaders for requirements gathering, analysis and provided design inputs and architecture to build the dashboards in wave.  • Integrated Data Sets with salesforce CRM for building the holistic 360* view for any data source for typical dashboard view. Not limited to salesforce CRM.  • Conducted Daily scrum call to coordinate with salesforce offshore team and assisted in fixing the bugs.  • Actively worked on building dashboards which included huge csv data loads from RDB and merged with the data in Salesforce.  • Worked on integrating 3rd part tools like Informatica, Informatica Rev, Dell Boomi with Salesforce.  • Extensively worked on creating salesforce reports on standard and custom objects and Performed Trending.  • Worked on Salesforce Event Monitoring feature and built dashboards to clean up the unused objects and fields in the object.  • Created helper classes that assisted with faster and more efficient coding.  • Responsible for all unit testing. This includes robust testing using assertion statements to ensure code always works correctly, even after deployment.  • Experience in Sales Cloud and Marketing Cloud Applications, Automation of Lead and campaign Management.  • Created many complex dashboards and included advanced geographical analysis, Dynamic Selection measures for the Parameters.  • Worked on Aura Framework, by adding aura attributes and aura handlers for Events to focus on logic and interactions in lightning applications.  • Implemented a business plan to grow and adapt to organizational and geographical representation challenges.  • Worked on enhancements in application production requested by business users from time to time.  • Worked SOAP and REST Web Services POC's in Salesforce& Involved in High level-Design documents.  • Followed a structured approach to organize requirements into logical groupings of essential business process, business rules, information needs and insured that critical requirements are not missed.  • Worked on embedding the wave dashboards into Visual Force pages and lightning using lightning components and App Builder.  • Worked on Setup, maintain and optimize Email marketing campaign utilizing Exact Target/Marketing cloud.  • Worked on Field trip to analyst the fields in each object.  • Wrote complex saql queries to combine different datasets into one Widget.  • Worked on architectural redesigning of tableau dashboards and built the same in wave with advanced features.  • Extensive knowledge towards the Microsoft Power BI and apply effective works on wave dashboards  • Created wave Dashboards to capture the login trends of users using desktop and mobile.  • Also, worked on creating the dashboards for visualizing the Apex Visual Force and Lightning components usage by users and time of logins.  • Developed Responsive popups using aura: framework and Java scripts.  • Worked on converting Salesforce classic VF pages into Lightning using Lightning components and Lightning App builder.  • Experienced in performing large and small-scale data migration using various Migration Tools, Informatica, DataLoader and data migration using traditional applications like data import/export wizard, workbench  • Experience in an agile software development environment.  • Developed Recursive Tabs using Lightning components.  • Worked with ETL tools such as Informatica Rev, Dell Bhoomi and Informatica to get the data from different salesforce orgs and RDB.  • Worked on designing and administration of Wave Permission sets, Licenses and Analytics Profile  • Performed constants administration of Dataflows to maintain its integrity and check the record limit.  • Worked on Tableau Dashboard builder and connected multiple RDB to join different tables and built complex dashboards  • Worked on complete life cycle SFDC Implementation.  Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Wave Analytics, wavedashboards, Visual Force, Lightning, HTML, Java Script, Reports, Dashboards, Sales Wave App, Saql, JSON, Service Wave App, Wave Analytics, Data Prep tool, Data Manager, Data flow, Atom, Wave Labs, Data Utils, Informatica Rev, Informatica, Dell Boomi, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Sandbox data loading, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Windows, Agile Salesforce Developer PrimeTherapeutics - Eagan, MN June 2013 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Interacted with Business users for requirements gathering, analysis and development.  • Worked on various Salesforce.com Standard Objects including Accounts, Contacts, Reports, Dashboards, Events and Tasks.  • Deployed the code over sandboxes using Change set.  • Written Test Cases to check code coverage in Apex Classes and Apex triggers.  • Developed various Apex classes, Controller classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Developed various Custom Objects, Formula fields, Master-Detail, Lookup relationships, Tabs, validation rules.  • Created various Profiles, Roles, and Page Layouts and configured the Permissions based on the Organization hierarchy requirements.  • Designed and deployed Custom tabs, validation rules, Approval Processes and Auto-Response for automating business logic.  • Created Workflow rules and defined related tasks, email alerts, and field updates.  • Implemented Pick lists, Dependent Pick lists, lookups, Master detail relationships, validation and formula fields to the custom objects.  • Created email templates and inbound emails using Visual Force for clients and customers.  • Enabled Chatter for the Organization and effectively communicate with the users in the Organization.  • Implementation of Data Loader for loading the data.  • Developed business documents for Salesforce.com Custom objects.  • Worked on different portals like Self Service Portal, Partner Portal and Customer Portal.  • Implemented Salesforce.com web services client using Sales force web services API, Java, XML and partner WSDL.  • Developed several Custom Reports & Dashboards to better assist managers and report folder to provide report accessibility to appropriate personnel.  • Involved in Agile methodology, Scrum that dramatically improved productivity and reduced errors.  • Provided the training to Business users about the system    Environment:Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, HTML, Java Script, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Pages, Data Loader, Email Services, Security Controls, Sandbox data loading, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Windows XP Java Developer Connect2 Business Solutions, Hyd August 2011 to June 2013 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for documenting the user requirements and system design specifications.  • Responsible for analyzing business processes, user new requirements.  • Gathered detailed design specifications and strategies which were utilized by the functional team and the development team for performing detailed development and testing on business applications.  • Implemented Java components and deployed under the weblogic server.  • Worked with JSF as the Web-container framework in the presentation tier.  • Developed Server side components with beans in JSF framework.  • Used JSF validator for the Server side Validation and Used JavaScript for the Front-end validation.  • Made use of JSFs, HTML, JavaScript and CSS to develop the frontend UI  • Involved in test plan, test cases and unit testing of the system  • Involved in different activities of project such as information meeting, analyzing data, validation of data, documenting business/functional supplies  • Work as Technical Support and perform all sorts of IT Administrative Tasks.  • Used Spring IOC and MVC for enhanced modules.  • Implemented SOAP protocol to get the requests from the outside System.  • Used Rational Clear Case as a source control for code changes.  • Followed coding and documentation standards.  • Involved the writing SQL quarries and Joins.  • Used Rational Clear Quest to document and track issues and resolutions.  Environment: Java Servlets, Struts, CSS, Hibernate, JavaScript, HTML, Toad, Oracle database, Apache Tomcat, Eclipse, Webserver, Linux. Education Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills ECLIPSE (8 years), HTML (8 years), APEX (6 years), WEB SERVICES (6 years), JAVA (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLSET:    Salesforce Technologies  SFDC Certified Force.com Developer, Salesforce CRM, Salesforce SFA, Apex, Classes/Controllers, Apex Triggers, SOQL, SOSL, Veeva, Visualforce Pages / Components, Apex Web Services, AJAX, Workflow & Approvals, Marketo, Analytic Snapshots, Wave Analytics, Apttus, Exact Target, Case Management Automation, Dashboards, Custom Objects.    Salesforce Tools  Eclipse, Force.com Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Force.com Explorer, Apex Data Loader, Force.com, Workbench, Force.com Platform (Sandbox and Production), Force.com Excel Connector.    Programming Languages Java, HTML, XHTML, DHTML, JavaScript, C, C++  Databases MS SQL Server 2012/2014, PL/SQL, RDBMS, Oracle 8i/9i/10g, MS Access, DB2 and MySQL  Operating Systems Windows NT / 2000 / XP Pro, Windows Server 2008/2012, Linux, AIX.