Android Developer Android <span class="hl">Developer</span> Android Developer - Santander Bank Dallas, TX • Highly passionate, dedicated and creative software developer with over 6+ Years of IT experience in Application Development using Android and Core Java.  • Proficient with common Android framework APIs.  • Proficient in working on Android UI components such as List View, Recycler View, Card View, Grid View, Search View, Text View, Image View, Buttons, Spinners, Menus, Edit boxes, Checkboxes, Dialogs, Alert boxes, Status Notifications and Action bars for various Applications.  • Expertise in creating and developing applications for android operating system using SQLite, Java, XML, Android SDK and ADT plugin.  • Working Experience with Activities, Fragments, Adapters, Intents, Services and Async tasks while developing Android applications.  • Experience in developing android applications using Content Providers, SQLite, Storage and retrieval of structured data.  • Proficient in development, debugging, and testing of Mobile Applications.  • Experienced with web services RESTful and SOAP.  • Experienced in parsing the web response data in JSON format using JSON, GSON and Volley.  • Experience in developing application using Intent services, Broadcasts and Broadcast Receivers in Android Environment.  • Experience in working with the version control (SVN, GIT).  • Experience in developing applications using Third-Party APIs such as Google.  • Knowledge of Google Play Service and Google Cloud Messaging technology.  • Good experience in Object Oriented Design (OOD), analysis (OOA), modeling (OOM) based on Unified Modeling Language (UML).  • Good mobile and web design skills using Activities (android), HTML 5, Java Script, AJAX and XML.  • Knowledge of Kotlin, Junit Testing and Mockito.  • Experience in working with Software methodologies such as agile methodology (SCRUM). Handled roles and responsibilities within agile team.  • Self-motivated and excellent abilities to learn new languages and other concepts quickly, excellent interpersonal skills and abilities to communicate with team players. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Android Developer Santander Bank - Dallas, TX August 2018 to Present Google play Link: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.sovereign.santander&hl=en    Description: Santander Bank are full service commercial bank which offers a variety of financial services to corporate, commercial, correspondent and individual bank clients. The project dealt in building the data warehouse which is a common pool of Contracts, Positions and Customer Account balances, for the use of Finance, Risk and Compliance and any other unit requiring such data.    Responsibilities:  • Delivered Functional Requirements document after detailed Requirements gathering sessions with Business.  • Assisted in designing the User Interface (UI/UX) and overall look and feel of the app.  • Developed the app to adapt to different orientations and various resolutions (LDPI/MDPI/HDPI) based on the device.  • Used Android content providers for implementing features like integrating the customer details into the app and designed suitable GUI for these applications.  • Used Android content providers for implementing features like sending E-mails, SMS, etc., from the app and designed suitable GUI for these applications.  • Regularly followed up with Development Team to discuss discrepancies identified during testing and performance tuning.  • Implemented apps with Google new SDK implementation, new features in Android SDK.  • Worked with Android API's for a few tasks including simple activity transitions and Recycler Views.  • Worked with Activities, Fragments, Android Binding, Android Framework, broadcast Receiver and Adapters.  • Utilized Kotlin for higher order functions and delegate design pattern.  • Worked with the Android SDK.  • Implemented the Kotlin with Android studio for smooth functioning of the location-based services GPS on Android  • Used logcat, DDMS (Dalvik Debug Monitor Server) and trace view for debugging and detecting memory leaks.  • Implemented unique design for portrait and landscape mode.  • Handling XML data using efficient parsing techniques such as DOM parser.  • Responsible for consuming the REST services, getting JSON response and parsing them  • Work closely with the web application development team to ensure proper integration between mobile application and web application.  • Used GIT for project management and version control.  • Worked on Android lock pattern, sure-swipe, Touch-ID for user authentication for user preference and core java programming.  • Used JSON to fetch data from the server using RESTful web services.  • Modify existing databases, applications, and interface API's for efficiency and speed.  • Working on Agile methodology, with active participation in daily stand ups and providing the progress of the respective sprint  • Implemented list views for displaying new releases.  • Provided subsequent releases which included feature changes, enhancements and bug fixes.    Environment: Android, Android SDK, Android Studio, Eclipse, Java, JSON, AJAX, HTML, JavaScript, Flash, REST, GitHub, agile, SQLite and Windows. Sr. Android Developer GEICO - Chevy Chase, MD February 2017 to August 2018 Google play Link: https://play.google.com/store/apps/ developer?id=GEICO+Federal+Credit+Union  Description: This application has multiple features like an accident guide, taxi/rental car finder, roadside service, and the ability to locate an agent within the user's location, which is open to the public. The policyholders get the additional benefits as they are able to store a full-screen digital insurance ID cards with email and fax capabilities, pay their bills, view discounts and coverage, get new quotes when adding or removing a vehicles, view claims and reschedule claim appointments, view driver and vehicle information, update their contact information, and customize the app with one of their favourite GEICO characters.  Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis, Design, Development, Deployment and Testing of applications.  • Participated in ongoing initiatives to improve processes and establish best practices.  • Implemented full life cycle development of new web applications and modification of existing applications to add new components and features emphasizing maintainability, reliability, scalability and performance.  • Worked on innovative background reflecting the user account status that changes according to user's account.  • Learnt new OOP language called Kotlin on the fly and successfully migrated parts of the project to Kotlin.  • Designed screens related to Categories and Detail description for Tablet for both 7 inch and 10-inch devices by customizing views as per mockup. Created Master-Detail Interface for tablet implementation.  • Worked on UI and base Android framework issues during OS upgradation.  • Used version control GIT.  • Used GIT for version control and Gradle as a build tool.  • Implemented MVP design pattern in designing and development of this project.  • Used MVC pattern to encapsulate client/server interactions helps to illustrate software-pattern roles as well as developer roles by separating object, components, and services into multi-tiers with well-defined boundaries.  • Testing included emulator and device testing with multiple versions and sizes with the help of ADB.  • Involved in design and developing re-usable web services using SOAP, XML, WSDL, XML Schemas and XSL.  • Used web views, list views & populated lists to display the lists from database using simple adapters.  • Used Android content providers for implementing features like sending E-mails, SMS, etc., from the app and designed suitable GUI for these applications.  • Used Services, Async tasks and Alert Notification API to implement event reminder feature into the mobile app. Developed Rich UI using Recycler View, Scroll View, Navigation Drawer, and View Pager.  • Responsible in implementing RESTful web services.  • Used Android Studio for writing the application Logic.  • Embedded Google Maps API, GPS Location Data into app with zooming controls.  • Involved in working with Location Manager and Restful Web service with JSON.  • Tested the application on various Android devices.    Environment: Android SDK 5.0, SQLite 3.6, Eclipse IDE 3.5, Android API's, RESTFUL Web service, DOM Parser, JDK 1.6, XML, JSON, HTML, CSS, GPS service, Log cat, Windows 7, ADT Plug-in, GIT (version control), DDMS console, ADB server, emulator and Base device (G1, HTC EVO). Android Developer Apigy Inc - Mountain View, CA August 2016 to April 2017 Googleplay Link: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.lockitron.android&hl=en_US  Description: Apigy US based company which offers its application for wholesale, commercial, and multi-family applications. Worked on Lockitron, its smart Locks/Devices added to a site are managed from two different places (tabs/screens) in the App when the App is in range and out of range. For ex. For configuring a setting for a Lock, it can be modified from the Manage screen however the change made only reflects the Cloud and it not written to the Lock. Optimized and improved the user interface of the application for its ease of access. In order to achieve, the app was Refactored with a new flow and Design with new set of UX screens.  Responsibilities:  • Design and create a new flow and screens for managing the Lock Configurations  • Create More screen by listing Options like Users, Audits, Schedules, Firmware update, Settings etc., for managing the Locks/devices  • Implement Sync for updating the Doorfile settings to the Locks  • Implement new screens for Locks Schedules and Holiday events  • Implement Users access info for the Locks  • Design and implement Update Firmware for updating the Firmware for the Locks  • Implement recording of the Locks diagnostics  • Re-Designed and implemented a generic mechanism for Reading the Lock/Device settings for all Device types. Advantage of which is easier maintenance and easy extensible for adding any new device/lock  • Design and Implement modules based on MVC Design Pattern  • Worked on improving the Performance of loading the Devices from the Cloud. Used pagination for listing devices for better user experience  • Use Android Material Design guidelines for designing the screens  • Added Floating Action Button (FAB) across the App  • Worked on Card View and Recycler View Adapters  • Worked on Android View Pagers and Snack bars  • Refactored Code for the WIFI-module, Device Commissioning, Connecting, usage of calls and database.  • Worked on using Butter knife Library for tagging the resource id with their names  • Incorporated the Application Insights for tracking run-times exceptions  • Followed Agile Methodology in analyze, define and documented the application which will support functional requirements.  • Develop Screens to support the App on devices with multiple form Factors  • Handled the Transition of Screen for various functionalities across the App like customizing new locks, permission settings, time scheduling and notification settings.  • Writing Unit Tests for the features that are being developed, reviewing code and bug fixing.    Environment: Android Studio, Android SDK, Android API's, Material Design, XML, JSON, ADB, Log Cat, Mac OS. JAVA DEVELOPER PEPSI CO - Chennai, Tamil Nadu August 2014 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing API's using SOAP, Restful web services using Spring framework.  • Build and maintain account transactions and customer banks cards API's.  • Implemented multi-threading using synchronized block and synchronized method, handled exceptions using exception Handling, Interfaces and Implemented Collection framework using Hash maps and Array List.  • Worked with Design patterns like Service Factory, Singleton and Factory Pattern.  • Used Hibernate in Data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Wrote HQL, criteria queries to perform all the required CRUD operations against the Oracle DB.  • Coded SQL Statements and Stored procedures for back end using Oracle.  • Handled client's business requirement changes and enhancement requests.  • Responsible for debugging the functionality and fixing the bugs of the application.  • Used log4j logger for logging purpose.  • Involved in writing Junit test cases.  • Used Sonar tool for the reviewing the code.  • Total project was built with Maven. Involved in writing the POM.xml and build properties.  • Used Team City for continuous integration builds and deployments.  • Used SVN for source code versioning and code repository.  • Search and implementation of possible areas of improvement to deliver a better production app.  • Setup proper interactions of the front-end design and implementation with backend servers.  • Setup proper interactions of the front-end design and implementation with backend servers.  • Developed graphic interface and UI for some activities.  • Used native and third-party technologies to optimize the App functionality including Eclipse, NetBeans, Java, Custom Views, Web Services, JSON, Flurry, Universal Image, Loader, SQLite, Fragments, Java Jersey Web Services, Tomcat, Hibernate, Hudson, SVN.  • Developed and implemented a wide range of low-level embedded software (including device driver and Linux kernel modules)  • Used JIRA for project planning and bug tracking. Junior Developer Make My Trip PVT. Ltd - IN June 2013 to July 2014 Description: Make My Trip is an Indian online travel company founded in 2000. The company provides online travel services including flight tickets, domestic and international holiday packages, hotel reservations, etc. Worked with the backend team to create the order processing and payment gateway applications and manage the database.  Responsibilities  • Involved in learning about the business and development, unit and integration testing of the application.  • Worked with the development team to create an order processing system. Also involved in designing and developing a payment gateway system.  • Collaborated with product and engineering team members to define and develop new product concepts.  • Implemented the payment API for company-wide deployment and integration with other systems.  • Experience in working with JavaScript, HTML4/5, CSS, and Bootstrap.  • Involved in creating single page web applications using AngularJS framework based on MVC architecture.  • Java was used to design most parts of the application with MySQL being used to handle and store data.  • Involved in documentation of SRS, technical and functional specifications. Also worked with designing and implementing workflows.  • Worked on the application by implementing Agile methodology with weekly sprints for a continuous feedback loop.  • JIRA was for bug tracking and issue tracking.    Environment: Java, MySQL, Express.js, Apache Tomcat, Node.js, Linux, CMS, JIRA. Education Master's in Computer Science Silicon Valley university - San Jose, CA Bachelor's in Electrical & Electronic Engineering KL university - Andhra, India Skills Android studio, Api, C/c++, C++, Firebase, Git, Html, Javascript, Jenkins, Json, Subversion, Xml, Android, Android sdk, Html5, Soap, Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Framework Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Technologies Java JDK, J2EE, C/C++, JSP, Servlets, Android SDK, Hibernate, JavaScript, Spring, JDBC, CSS3, JFROG Atrifactory, Maven, Jenkins.  Android App  Mobile Development    Android SDK, Recycler View, List view, SQLite, JNI, Notification Manager, Contacts, Content Provider, Kotlin, DDMS, Location, Map, Android NDK, BLE, HTTP Client, GSON, JSON based Web Services, Camera API, Facebook API, Firebase.    Debugging and Testing Tools DDMS, Logcat. JUnit, Robotium, Mockito and Espresso.  Markup Languages HTML/HTML5, CSS3, XHTML and XML, JSON.  IDE'S Eclipse, Android Eclipse IDE(ADT), Android Studio, IntelliJ IDE, Net Beans.  Web Services& Parsing Techniques SOAP, REST, JSON, GSON, DOM, SAX, Volley API, and Retrofit API.  Version Controls Subversion, Git, CVS.  RDBMS SQLite, Oracle, MySQL, PLSQL.  Issue Tracking tools JIRA.  OS Linux/Unix, Windows, Android