Part-time Junior Java and SQL Developer Part-time Junior <span class="hl">Java</span> and SQL <span class="hl">Developer</span> Centreville, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Part-time Junior Java and SQL Developer Richard McKay Used Books - Manassas, VA February 2019 to Present Work directly beneath the store's lead programmer to create plans, develop new features, and debug existing problems for the Java software used in the store. Maintain the MySQL  database including data manipulation, analysis, and management of active and backup  servers.  Responsibilities:  ? Work with lead programmer to design features and troubleshoot bugs for the in-house Java/ Java Swing program  ? Create proposals and execute plans for features and design changes to the program  ? Deploy updated versions of the store's JAR periodically from the network file  server to on-site workstations  ? Write and execute database queries to update and maintain the store database  ? Utilize Git and Github for version tracking and project management    Database Maintenance Engineer and IT Assistant, Richard Mckay Used Tier 2 Datacenter Technician SoftLayer, an IBM Company - Ashburn, VA March 2018 to Present Provide the necessary technical support at data centers. The tasks to be performed are system/network installation, configuration, and troubleshooting problems to make sure smooth running of operations.  Responsibilities:  ? Rack, build, cable, configure, and provision Intel and AMD devices  ? Deployment of Cisco Layer 2 networking equipment  ? Troubleshooting, testing, and quality assurance of server hardware  ? Professionally resolve hardware issue via trouble ticket  ? Create tickets within the ticketing system to address problems, incidents and changes of hardware  ? Provide accurate and detailed logs within the ticketing and messaging systems  for callouts and system alerts, as well as for communication and escalation steps  taken to ensure prompt resolution of supported equipment, processes and teams  ? Install, test and label cable and fiber using standard data center protocols and use cable management systems Database Maintenance Engineer and IT Assistant Richard McKay Used Books - Manassas, VA February 2017 to March 2018 Work directly with the lead programmer and management to provide assistance in maintaining the integrity of the database, and assist in maintaining the hardware and software of the technology used in the store.  Responsibilities:  • Write and execute database queries to update and maintain the store database  • Work with management to discuss ways to optimize the performance and usage of the database  •  Manage computer workstations and networking of all computers in the store  • Troubleshoot technology issues for employees and resolve problems to ensure maximum efficiency of employees Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Old Dominion University September 2018 to Present A.A.S in Information Systems Northern Virginia Community College 2016 to 2017 Skills Java (1 year), Python (Less than 1 year), SQL (2 years)