Informatica MDM Developer Informatica MDM <span class="hl">Developer</span> Informatica MDM Developer - Vertex Plano, TX • 6 years of IT experience in Informatica MDM Hub with Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) analysis, design, development, testing, maintenance and quality assurance with implementation of software applications in MDM and Data warehousing.  • Experience in Master Data Management concepts, methodologies and ability to apply this knowledge in building MDM solutions.  • Experience working on Informatica MDM to design, develop, test and review & optimize Informatica MDM (Siperian).  • Installed, Configured core Informatica/Siperian MDM Hub components such as Informatica MDM Hub Console, Hub Store, Hub Server, Cleanse Match Server, Cleanse Adapter, Data Modeling.  • Configured landing tables, staging tables, base objects, hierarchies, foreign-key relationships, lookups.  • Worked on Mappings from landing to staging tables and Imported new ORS in to MDM hub console.  • Designed & developed multiple cleansing and standardization scenarios using Address Doctor.  • Implemented Hierarchy Manager Module in addition to Match/Merge/Unmerge to depict various hierarchies.  • Created IDD application as per the business needs by creating the subject area and subject area groups.  • Configuring Informatica Data Director (IDD) to meet Data Governance objectives in project life cycles.  • Expertise in Informatica MDM Hub Match and Merge Rules, Batch Jobs and Batch Groups.  • Experience in designing and developing Informatica mappings for data loads that include Source Qualifier, Aggregator, Unconnected Lookup, Connected Lookup, Filter, Router, Update Strategy etc.  • Experience in debugging, error handling and performance tuning of sources, targets, mappings and sessions with the help of error logs generated by Informatica server  • Installed and configured Oracle 11g and Oracle SQL Developer.  • Provided solutions for various uses cases provided by the business users to meet the requirements.  • Provided 24X7 application support in a high-availability, high-utilization environment.  • Good team player with solid attention to detail, and the ability to work well in a collaborative team environment. Work Experience Informatica MDM Developer Vertex - Boston, MA January 2018 to Present Responsibilities  • Successfully completed Customer and Product Centric Master Data Management initiatives using Informatica Master data management product.  • Upgraded MDM from 9.6.1 to 9.7 and to 10.1  • Successfully completed the Hub configuration phase to deployment of the project.  • Defined standard interfaces, Data Profile, metadata acquisition, data migration, validation, pre-landing processing and Reference Entities.  • Implemented real-time integration with MDM HUB using real-time batch processing for business data coming from four source systems.  • Defined the landing tables, staging tables, and configured base objects.  • Defined foreign-key relationships, lookups, query groups and queries.  • Used Hierarchies tool for configuring entity base objects, entity types, relationship base objects, relationship types, profiles, put and display packages and used the entity types as subject areas in IDD.  • Defined the Trust and Validation rules and setting up the match/merge rule sets to get the right master records. Configured match rule set property by enabling search by rules in MDM according to Business Rules.  • Involved in creating, monitoring, modifying, & communicating the project plan with other team members.  • Performed match/merge and ran match rules to check the effectiveness of MDM process on data.  • Used Metadata manager for validating, promoting, importing and exporting repositories from development environment to testing environment.  • Involved with Data Steward Team for designing, documenting and configuring Informatica Data Director for supporting management of MDM data.  • Created Unit Test Case Document, Technical Design Document, Data Validation document and Knowledge Transfer Document.    Environment: Informatica MDM 10.2, Provisioning Tool, Smart Search, IDD, SQL Server 2008/2016, Informatica big data management (BDM 10.x) State Street ESP & ERP applications, Oracle 11g, Address Doctor, Informatica Power Center, JBoss 6.4. Informatica MDM Developer State Street - Boston, MA April 2017 to December 2017 Responsibilities  • Installation and Configuration of JBOSS Application Server, Informatica MDM Hub Console, Hub Server, Cleanse Match Server (Process Server), Resource Kit, Upgrading Master and User Specific ORS.  • Designed and created BO, staging tables, mappings, transformations as per business requirements  • Created mappings to perform the tasks such as cleansing the data and populate that into staging tables.  • Integrated Customer data from different sources to create a Customer Master Data to get best version of truth as golden record  • Successfully completed the Hub configuration phase to deployment of the project.  • Defined standard interfaces, Data Profile, metadata acquisition, data migration, validation, pre-landing processing and Reference Entities  • Defined foreign-key relationships, lookups, query groups and queries  • Used Hierarchies tool for configuring entity base objects, entity types, relationship base objects, relationship types, profiles, put and display packages and used the entity types as subject areas in IDD.  • Defined the Trust and Validation rules and setting up the match/merge rule sets to get the right master records. Configured match rule set property by enabling search by rules in MDM according to Business Rules.  • Involved in creating, monitoring, modifying, & communicating the project plan with other team members.  • Performed match/merge and ran match rules to check the effectiveness of MDM process on data.  • Used Metadata manager for validating, promoting, importing and exporting repositories from development environment to testing environment.  • Involved with Data Steward Team for designing, documenting and configuring Informatica Data Director for supporting management of MDM data.  • Created Unit Test Case Document, Technical Design Document, Data Validation document and Knowledge Transfer Document.    Environment: Informatica Multidomain MDM 10.1, Informatica Power Center 9.5.1, Informatica Data Quality 9.6.1, Web logic 12c, Oracle 11g, SQL Developer, Service Now, App works, Perforce Informatica MDM Developer Symantec - Mountain View, CA May 2016 to March 2017 Responsibilities:    • Created Base objects, staging tables, landing tables, defined foreign key relationships and configure lookups on the stage tables.  • Defined standard interfaces, Data Profile, metadata acquisition, data migration, validation, pre-landing processing and Reference Entities  • Worked closely with the Business in gathering the Match and Merge rules.  • Created Match Paths, Match Columns for Match and Merge Process.  • Understand the key business requirements of client and performed Data Analysis and abstracted the transactional nature of data.  • Worked on Hierarchy Manager for hierarchical relationships between the entities.  • Created Pre-Stage, Post-Match and Post-Merge user exits to support business requirements.  • Define Subject Areas, Subject areas child and grandchild.  • Ran batch jobs - Stage, Load, Generate Match Tokens, Match, Auto Merge, Auto Match and Merge etc.  • Used data manager tool from Data steward workbench for entering data for lookup tables in hub.  • Closely worked with Data Steward Team for designing, documenting and configuring Informatica Data Director for supporting management of MDM data.    Environment: Informatica Multi Domain edition 10.0, Informatica Data Director (IDD), Oracle 11g, JBoss6.1, SOAP Ul, Java1.7, Red Hat Linux, SQL. Informatica MDM Developer Yellow Messenger - Bengaluru, Karnataka May 2014 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  * Worked in integrating customer data from different sources to create Customer Master Data to acquire unsurpassed version of truth as golden record by using Informatica Power Center.  * Productively engaged in the Hub configuration phase till deployment of the project.  * Defined standard interfaces, Data Profile, metadata acquisition, data migration, validation, pre-landing processing and Reference Entities  * Offered services in defining the landing tables, staging tables, and configured base objects  * Defined foreign-key relationships, lookups, query groups and queries  * Hands on experience in utilizing Hierarchy tool for configuring entity base objects, entity types, relationship base objects, relationship types, profiles, put and display packages and used the entity types as subject areas in IDD.  * Worked with Data Steward Team for designing, documenting and configuring Informatica Data Director for supporting management of MDM data.  * Defined the Trust and Validation rules and setting up the match/merge rule sets to get the right master records. Configured match rule set property by enabling search by rules in MDM according to Business Rules.  * Utilized Metadata manager for validating, promoting, importing and exporting repositories from development environment to testing environment.  * Created Unit Test Case Document, Technical Design Document, Data Validation document and Knowledge Transfer Document.    Environment: Informatica MDM 10.2, Informatica Power Center 9.6.1, JBoss 6.4, Oracle 11g, SQL Developer Java UI Developer Acesurf IT Labs LLP - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2013 to March 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed the application using template frameworks for JavaScript including Bootstrap, SQL, MVC, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON.  • Responsible for developing the pages using jQuery, Ajax, and JSON to parse on data on the frontend on the fly.  • Involved in complete Agile SDLC on Requirement Analysis, Development, System and Integration testing.  • Used bootstrap to get the best and most efficient results.  • Developed Web Services using REST, WSDL and XML.  • Used complex Object-Oriented concepts in improving the performance of the websites.  • Worked with Firebug to locate the issues through different browsers  • Implemented Angular Routing and Filters.  • Used grunt task runner for repetitive tasks like minification, compilation, unit testing.  • Worked with the QA team to fix the bugs, test the load, and performance checking.  • Used Jasmine for testing angular and typescript based test cases.  • Used GIT Hub repository for the source code management and code reviewing.  • Designed and implemented the database interaction using triggers and stored procedures.    Environment: Angular, HTML5, CSS3, JAVA, SQL, GIT, XML, WSDL, XSD, JavaScript, Eclipse, Tomcat, Ajax, jQuery, Safari, Chrome, Apache Tiles, Bootstrap. Education Master's Murray State University - Murray, KY May 2017 Bachelor of Technology in Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University May 2013 Skills Etl, Informatica, Jboss, Mdm, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Postgresql, Sql, Ms visual studio, Visual studio, Javascript, Bootstrap, Node.js, Json, Eclipse, jquery, Mvc, Ajax Additional Information Technical Skills  Informatica MDM Tools Informatica MDM 10.1,10.2,10.3 HF1 (MDM Hub, Informatica Data Director, Message Queues).  Web/App Servers Web Logic 10.3.6, JBoss EAP 6.4/7.1, IBM WebSphere 8.5  Databases PostgreSQL , Oracle 10g, Oracle 11g, SQL Server and MYSQL  ETL Informatica Power Center 9.6.1  IDE Eclipse, MS Visual Studio, NetBeans, WebStorm, Visual Studio Code, Sublime Text 3, IntelliJ.  Web Technologies & Frameworks HTML4/5, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, JSON, CSS2/3, MVC Frameworks like AngularJS, Bootstrap, Jquery UI, Node.JS, Rx.js  Version Control TFS, GitHub.  Operating Systems Windows XP/7/8/10, Mac OS, Linux, Ubuntu.