Salesforce Developer / Admin Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span> / Admin Salesforce Developer / Admin - Thermo fisher Scientific Inc Sunnyvale, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Salesforce Developer / Admin Thermo fisher Scientific Inc - Sunnyvale, CA July 2018 to Present Thermo Scientific for superior analytical instruments, laboratory equipment, software, services, consumables and reagents. Find better workflow solutions spanning sample preparation, sample analysis, and data interpretation.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Assisted in the collection and documentation of user's requirements, development of user stories, estimates and work plans  • Analyze and resolve technical and application problems.  • Interacted with various business user groups for gathering the requirements for Salesforce implementation and documented the Business and Software Requirements.  • Performed detailed analysis of business and technical requirements and designed the solution by customizing various standard objects of Salesforce.com (SFDC) and other Platform based technologies like Visualforce, Force.com API, and Web Services.  • Adhere to high-quality development principles while delivering solutions on-time.  • Developed design documents, Solution documents for the requests before development Phase.  • To provide technical input to risk analysis and change control.  • Contributing to business area assessment, user needs analysis and business systems design.  • Writing Triggers and batch processes and deployment considerations.  • Batch processing and implementation considerations.  • Support and development activities for applications/projects assigned.  • Develop strategies to deploy code using multiple sandboxes.  • Reviewing and documenting code.  • Also actively involved in production support by providing resolutions to the operational issues raised as app defects.  • Created Custom objects, Custom fields, Record Types, Page Layouts for each Record type.  • Define SF security model - Roles, Profiles, Public Groups, Sharing Rules, and Queues etc.  • Created Work Flows, Email Alerts, Validation Rules, Field Updates, Custom Labels, Field sets, Custom Settings, Process Builder, Approval Process and Visual Flows.  • Created change sets to deploy components to the production.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visualforce Pages, Custom Component , Custom Controllers, Workflow & Approvals, Process Builder, Visual Flows, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Page Layouts, Flows, Data Loader, , Eclipse IDE, Sublime. Salesforce Developer/ Administrator Vandesys - Chicago, IL November 2017 to June 2018 Vandesys is an authorized Consulting partner of Salesforce.com specializes in providing complete implementation services for Salesforce.com application. Vandesys implemented Salesforce for many companies for Partner Relationship Management (PRM) for Salesforce.com application, Salesforce automation and Marketing Automation.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Developed design documents, Solution documents for the requests.  • To Provide technical input to risk analysis and change control.  • Assisting with the development of client information management standards and evaluation of technology trends.  • Contributing to business area assessment, user needs analysis and business systems design.  • Assisting with comprehensive cost/benefit analysis and preparation of business cases for new projects.  • Created Custom objects, Custom fields, Record Types, Page Layouts for each Recordtype.  • Define SF security model - Roles, Profiles, Public Groups, Sharing Rules, Queues etc.  • Created Work Flows, Email Alerts, Validation Rules, Field Updates, Custom Labels, Field sets, Custom Settings.  • Created change sets to deploy components to the production.  • Worked on excel sheets to clean and modify the data during initial migration.  • Used Data loader to Import and export the data for data cleaning and also used to upload global values in the Custom Settings when moved to different instances.  • Develop applications on Force.com Platform using Apex and Visualforce pages.  • Declarative software development: database, validation, security, forms, reports.  • Reports generation (database knowledge, writing queries, ETL etc).  • Writing Triggers and batch processes and deployment considerations.  • Batch processing and implementation considerations.  • Working with SalesForce APIs & writing Webservices in SalesForce.  • Building reports using the Report Builder.  • Developing all types of reports, especially Matrix and Joined Reports.  • Support and development activities for applications/projects assigned.  • Develop strategies to deploy code using multiple sandboxes.  • Reviewing and documenting code.  • Lead minor projects and assists junior level staff with minor projects.  • Also actively involved in production support by providing resolutions to the operational issues raised as app defects.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visualforce Pages, Custom Component , Custom Controllers, Workflow & Approvals, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Page Layouts, Flows, Data Loader, , Eclipse IDE, SQL server Salesforce Developer/ Administrator PressGaney - Chicago, IL January 2016 to October 2017 Press Ganey is a company that advises and consults with healthcare businesses to help identify the best practices for the organization and the patient. They also help to implement these best practices.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Performed the role of Salesforce.com Developer and Administrator in the organization.  • Worked on various salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Opportunities, Reports and Dashboards.  • Developed and configured various Custom Reports and Report Folders for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  • Designed, and developed the Custom objects, Record Types, Formula fields, validation rules, Page layouts, workflow rules, tasks, emails and alerts to track customer related tasks and activities.  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on record pages.  • Implemented pick lists, dependent pick lists, lookups, master detail relationships, validation and formula fields to the custom objects.  • Involved in Salesforce.com Application Setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization.  • Implemented Web to Case, Email to Case functionalities to provide a better customer support to the customers.  • Assigned workflows for Lead conversion, transfers, merging duplicates, managing web-to-lead to track responses to online campaigns.  • Created custom Visualforce components and attributes to override the look and feel of standard Visualforce components.  • Provided ongoing Salesforce.com maintenance and administration services. Including periodic data cleansing, custom objects, workflows and campaign management.  • Used field level security along with page layout to manage the visibility and accessibility of fields for different profiles.  • Developed Apex Classes, Controllers and Apex Triggers as per the requirements.  • Developed Visualforce Pages to include extra functionality and wrote Apex Classes to provide functionality to the visual pages.  • Using Organization Security, network Security and Session Security implemented Platform Security.  • Installed Salesforce AppExchange Apps, configured and maintained user security permissions in compliance with organizational needs.  • Created email templates and inbound emails using Visual force for the clients and customers.  • Integrate of Application with Salesforce.com with using SOAP web services API and Web Sphere Cast iron.  • Implemented Nightly Batch Processes to handle bulk records and scheduled daily jobs using apex scheduler.  • Uploaded about close to a million records using the Data loader and experienced in cleansing and De-duplicating bulk loads.  • Deployed Apex using Force.com IDE, Force.com Migration tool and Web services API.  • Developed several custom Reports, Custom Report Types to better assist managers and also report folders to provide report accessibility to appropriate personnel.  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Provided user support and bug fixing activities as per the SLA. Consultant SalesForce.com - Merrillville, IN November 2015 to December 2016 At DirectBuy, SalesForce is used to replace there old Hinkle system with CRM application. This project deals with Lead Management, Account & Contact Management , Activity management, Opportunity and Pipeline management, Forecasting, Case Management, Solution Management, Campaign management. This project involves new developments, Enanchements , Risk Analysis along with developing complex reporting and dashboards, Maintenance and production support.  Roles & Responsibilities:    • Acted as SCRUM master in an Agile development environment.  • Technical resource on implementing Multicurrency within salesforce.com platform.  • Involved and interacted with various MMKT Business users for gathering the requirements for CRM implementation.  • Worked on various salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Opportunity, Products Opportunity Line Items, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, Activities, Reports and Dashboards.  • Extensively worked on building complex Visual force pages (Executive Priority page, Costumer value capture page) using standard, custom and extension controllers to suit the needs of the application.  • Designed, developed, tested and deployed custom SalesForce applications software using APEX Classes, Controller Classes, Batch APEX and APEX Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Created Formula Fields, Validation Rules, Workflow Business rules and Approvals processes for the flexibility and functionality of force platform application.  • Proficient in writing SOQL and SOSL queries within custom Controllers and triggers.  • Involved in Salesforce.com application setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization.  • Worked on automating command prompt Apex Data loader for loading .CSV files into salesforce.com.  • Involved in designing the architecture of integrating various external systems to Salesforce.com.  • Configured, maintained Salesforce.com application user profiles, roles, assigning Permissions, Sharing Rules, Queues, Generating security tokens, validation Rule.  • Proficient in using Eclipse based Salesforce.com IDE to develop and deploy force.com software.  • Performed the roles of Salesforce.com Analyst/ Developer and Administrator in the organization.    Environment: Salesforce.com Unlimited edition, Eclipse IDE, Apex Data Loader, Apex Explorer, Apex, Visual-force, SOQL, HTML, XML, AJAX, Salesforce1, Chatter, Salesforce Communities, Salesforce1 Developer SalesForce.com - Madison, WI August 2014 to October 2015 Sales Force is used for Marketing it mainly deals with Lead Management, Account & Contact Management, Activity management, Opportunity and Pipeline management, Forecasting, Case Management. This project involves new developments, Enhancements, Integration, Risk Analysis along with Maintenance and Production support.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Worked as SFDC Developer/Consultant for development projects as required and Acted as the liaison to resolve issues between business requirements, Business Process Model (BPM) and technical design limitations.  • Review and understand the business requirements as documented through Business Process Model (BPM), Use Cases Model and non-Functional Specifications. Work with Business Analysts and end user to determine screen layouts for a new web application.  • Implemented Web-to-Case, Email-to-Case functionalities to provide a better customer support to the customers.  • Worked on various salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, Reports and Dashboards, Designed, developed and deployed the Custom objects, Page layouts, Custom tabs, Components, Visual Force Pages to suit to the needs of the application.  • Designed, developed and deployed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Imported data from excel sheets in to Leads, Accounts, Contacts and Opportunities using Data Loader and Import Wizard and scheduling tools to automate bulk data loading.  • Involved with Salesforce.com Premier Support and handled the support cases with the help Salesforce.com support.  • Developed S-controls to manage sales plan call sheets within Salesforce, capturing prep data and call activity.  • Developed various Custom Reports and deployed them for different business user levels.  • Performed the role of support engineer for the internal users and helped them in getting used to the application, generated reports and saved them for further access to the users.  • Supported the data migration activities for migrating the data from various business centers and business center users with the support of Saleforce.com.  • Administrated and monitored the company's Salesforce CRM application.  • Environment:Saleforce.com platform, Apex, Visual Force Pages, Apex Explorer , Quotes, Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Web to case, Email to case , Reports, Tags, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email.  • Services, Security Controls, Sandbox data loading, HTML, Time based triggers, Workflows and Validation rule, SOQL, SOSL. Salesforce Developer Groupon - Chicago, IL May 2013 to August 2014 Description: Groupon is a deal-of-the-day website that features discounted gift certificates usable at local or national companies..    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Performed the roles of Salesforce Developer and Administrator in the organization.  • Worked under Agile SDLC using Scrum methodology.  • Experience in Apex Classes, Controllers & Triggers considering governor limits and various other components as per the client and application requirements.  • Developed various Custom Objects, Tabs, Entity-Relationship data model, validation rules on the objects and tabs, Components and Visual Force Pages.  • Created Custom fields, pick lists, dependent pick lists, and validation formulas to the custom objects.  • Worked with various salesforce.com standard objects like Cases, Accounts, Contacts, Assets and Products.  • Expert in Salesforce Sales and Service cloud implementation.  • Configured workflow rules, time triggered workflows, email templates resulting into effective web to lead communication with customers and partners.  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields and other components on a record detail and edit pages.  • Developed Apex Classes, Apex Triggers and Validation rules for Leads.  • Integrating the application with SOAP Web services and also Informatica Web services.  • Worked on Email handling requirements for assigning the leads to Agents.  • Used Dashboards and reports to show the performance of the offices and also time taken to assign Leads.  • Been a part of Unit testing and guided my offshore Developers.  • Involved in the entire SDLC using agile methodologies and Understanding of complex SQL's.  • Developed custom objects and custom tabs for various modules of applications.  • Extended standard native Force.com functionality using Visual force, Apex, AJAX, JQuery and Web services.  • Written numerous SOQL and SOSL queries using Force.com explorer.  • Prepared various test cases to test the functionality of the code in accordance to the governor's limits.    Environment: Salesforce Enterprise Edition, S-controls, Apex, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Data Loader, HTML, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Escalation rules, Security controls, Email Services, Sandbox data loading, chatter, Force.com Eclipse plug in, Eclipse, Unit testing, Import Wizard. Java Developer State of Texas - Austin, TX November 2012 to April 2013 Description: Texas Integrated Eligibility Redesign System (TIERS) is a state-of-the-art state eligibility system that administers welfare programs including Medicaid, TANF, and SNAP while supporting over two million active cases, six million active clients, and 141 million monthly transactions.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Data Collection is largest functional area in TIERS which allows the HHSC (Texas Health and Human Services System) worker to record detailed client information. This module provides number of specialized interview modes that schedule LUWs (Logical Unit of Work) based on case action and data. Examples include choosing Intake Interview mode for a new application, choosing change Action interview mode for making address changes to case information.  • Presently working on software development consulting project for Texas State Government end client.  • Developing backend and front end of high volume transaction TIERS Data Collection project.  • Involved in backend and front end application development for Data Collection LUWs including Appointments, Disability, Application Registration- Register Program, Program Denial, Application Denial, Undo Initiate Review; Inquiry -Individual Summary LUW; Data Collection Batch process for processing Referrals to FFE (Federal Facilitated Exchanges)  • Developing and supporting the Data Collection online system throughout the development life cycle.  • Extensively used Struts MVC architecture to handle the requests between the UI screens.  • Implemented wide variety of built in JQuery plugins such as Data Table, AJAX, and Dialog etc., to enhance the look and feel of UI screens.  • Used JavaScript as an extended functionality to web pages.  • Involved in core components using IO, Collections and Threads.  • Involved in developing JavaScript validation code for front end development.  • TIERS is a state-of-the-art state eligibility system that administers programs such as Medicaid, TANF, and SNAP  • Developed SQL queries, Joins with JDBC API to access data.  • Involved in development of Struts Action classes and Form beans.  • Implemented Persistence mechanism using Hibernate.  • Utilized the String Tokenizer and collections in Java.  • Developed the presentation layer and GUI framework using HTML, DHTML, CSS and validations were done.  • Dynamic web pages were developed in JSP.  • Developed database schema and SQL queries for querying database on Oracle 9i  • Involved in creations of Applets using Visual cafe's make Applet utility.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4J and fixed the problems.  • Used Eclipse as the IDEfor building the application.  • Developed the Controller Servlet, which sends the requests to the appropriate action classes.  • Some sample tests were incorporated using Multi-Threaded Java Applets, Java Scripts were used.    Environment: Java 1.6, java EE 5.0, EJB 2.0, JSP 2.0, Servlets 2.5, Rational Application Developer 7.5, WebSphere Application server 7.0, ClearCase 8.0, Oracle 11g, PL/SQL Developer 8.0, JDBC 4.0 , JavaScript 1.2, AJAX, XML, SOAP, Log4J, JUnit, Ant, MS Office, HTML, CSS, JQuery 1.4. Java Developer Sonata Software - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2011 to October 2012 Sonata Software Limited is a software services company delivering transformational IT solutions through customer specific Centres of Excellence. Sonata serves Software Product Companies, and enterprises in the Travel, Manufacturing, Retail and Distribution verticals across the globe. Its key service lines include Business Intelligence and Analytics, Application Development Management.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • In a team of 4, as a team member to begin with and then as a senior member, was involved in design and code Web Pages using JSPs and Servlets.  • Database design utilizing Oracle.  • Coding Java classes.  • Design and code Web Pages using JSPs and Servlets.  • Added more functionality for site administration.  • Involved in maintenance tasks like porting the application onto a new site.  • Performed unit and integration testing.    Environnent: Java Beans, Java Servlets, Java 1.3, SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle 8.1.6, Apache Tomcat, BEA WebLogic, XML, Windows NT/2000, Linux Java Developer Megasoft Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2010 to August 2011 Megasoft Information Systems Pvt. Ltd. is an integrated solution providing company, which is actively involved in different areas of Information Technology like Software Solutions for Banking and e-Governance, Data Communication, Project Consultancy, e-Commerce,  System Integration, System Auditing, Networking solutions, Hardware and Maintenance etc.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirements gathering, analysis, design and testing of the complete system.  • Implemented the presentation layer using JSP, HTML and CSS.  • Configured Tomcat Apache for deployment.  • Designed and created various tables required for the project in MySql database.  • Used Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions and debug information.  • Developed the application using Eclipse.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets 3, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, XML, Tomcat 6. Education B.Tech in ECE in ECE JNTU 2007 Skills Apex (6 years), Eclipse (5 years), Force.com (5 years), Loader (6 years), workflow (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Salesforce Technologies  Salesforce CRM, Apex Language, Apex Classes/Controllers, Apex Triggers, SOQL, SOSL, Visual Force Pages / Components, S Controls, Apex Web Services, Workflow & Approvals, Dashboards, Analytic Snapshots, Case Management Automation, Custom Objects.    Salesforce Tools  Force.com Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Force.com Explorer, Force.com Data Loader, Force.com Excel Connector, Force.com Platform (Sandbox, and Production).    Web Technologies SOAP, REST, Apache 2.2, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, jQuery, JavaScript, JSON, SVG, XML, SOAP, UDDI, WSDL, Web Services, REST  Programming Languages APEX, JAVA, J2EE, JSP, JSF, UNIX, SQL, PL/SQL, JAVA SCRIPT, HTML, XML, AJAX, BPEL, Shell scripting  Databases MySQL, SQL Server, MS Access, Oracle  Custom Integration  Outbound Messages, Field updates, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom settings, Custom labels and Tabs, Email Services, Role Hierarchy.