Salesforce Developer/Administrator Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Administrator Salesforce Developer/Administrator - Kelly Services Phoenix, AZ • Over 7+ Years of IT experience that includes over in Salesforce.com CRM Platform and Apex technologies and around with Java/J2EE  • Excellent working experience with Salesforce developer toolkit(Apex, Visualforce, force.com IDE, SOQL and WebServices/ Metadata API).  • Excellent knowledge on Apex development in creating Triggers, Apex Classes, Standard Controllers, Custom Controllers and Controller Extensions.  • Extensive work experience in defining and managing custom Objects, Creating page layouts, designing of custom fields, role based page layouts, custom Tabs, custom reports, report extractions to various formats and various other components as per the client and application requirements.  • Experience in working with Eclipse IDE with Force.com Plug-inand MavensMateenvironment for writing Business logic in Apex Programming Language.  • Proficient in administrating the organizational setup usingSalesforce administration.  • Good experience in working with Cloud computing / SaaS technologies.  • Experience in designing junction objects and implemented various advanced fields like Pick list, Custom Formula Fields, Field Dependencies, Validation Rules, Work Flows, and Approval Processesfor automated alerts, field updates, and Email generation according to application requirements.  • Experience in implementing securityand sharing rules at object, field, andrecord level for different users at different levels of organization. Also created various profiles and configured the permissions based on the organizational hierarchy.  • Working knowledge on ETL tools like Informatica Power center , SSIS and Reporting tools like OBIEE  • Excellent Working knowledge on web 3.0 technologies like JavaScript, JQuery, Angular Js , HTML5 and CSS 3.0  • Good understanding of Salesforce.com Governor Limits with an ability to optimize code to respect those limits.  • Experience in the Product data management for controlling and tracking the records  • Had experience with the CRM integration for the data entry and engaging them.  • Experience with Apttus CPQ to oversee design, estimating, citing, rebates, motivating forces, and recommendations on any gadget.  • Proficient in Data Migration from Traditional Apps to Salesforce Using Data Loader Utility.  • Experience in designing skills with E-R Diagram and UML Diagrams.  • Working experience on tools like fisheye for reviewing the code,senseifor sprint retrospection and planning poker for estimating the story points.  • Extensive experience in developing enterprise applications usingJava technologies such as JSP, Servlets, SpringMVC, XML, JDBCandCSS.  • Good exposure to RDBMS, SQL and PL/SQL, writing SQL scripts for efficient report generation.  • Highly organized and dedicated with a positive attitude, capable of producing results immediately on hire.  • Great involvement in creating salesforce Lightning Apps, Components, Controllers and Events.  • Altered existing Visualforce to adjust to salesforce new Lightning UI encounter.  • Customer centric with effective interpersonal, organizational and problem solving skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Salesforce Developer/Administrator Kelly Services - Phoenix, AZ July 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed, developed and deployed Visualforce Pages, Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Developed Visualforce pages using UI libraries like JQuery and Angular Js  • Designed and deployed Custom tabs, validation rules, Approval Processes and Auto-Response Rules for automating business logic.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, email alerts, field updates and time triggered tasks to implement business logic.  • Implemented pick lists, dependent pick lists, lookups, master detail relationships, validation and formula fields to the custom objects.  • Worked on customization of visualforce to have lightening experience for desktop and mobile applications.  • Architecture design of the jobs site development and provided support.  • Composed different WebPages in VisualForce for catching different client enquiries and Involved and actualized Partner Community.  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists and other components on a record detail and edit pages.  • Created templates, approval processes, approval page layouts and defined approval actions on them to automate the processes.  • Managed the database for the team's region and performed basic administration, de-duping and cleanup procedures.  • Performed multi-record data migration for billion-dollar satellite company using Data loader, Excel Vlookups and salesforce reports.  • Managed ongoing support request and administrative needs of users.  • Hands on Experience in creating custom Objects, Custom Fields, page Layouts, Custom Tabs, Reports and various other components as per the client and application requirements.  • Created various Reports (summary reports, matrix reports, pie charts, dashboards and graphics) and Report Folders to assist managers to better utilize Salesforce as a sales tool and configured various Reports and for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  • Used SOQL & SOSL for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Used field level security along with page layouts to manage access to certain fields.  • Used Data loaderto load the records on to the force.com platform.  • Extracted the data from Salesforce.com application into the external databases for generating large data reports using the Informatica on Demand.  • Worked on CRM integration for managing of the customer information and marketing of the products.  • Worked on Salesforce Communities and made VF pages for Communities.  • Worked on SOAP and REST API for Exporting the data from salesforce.  • Worked with Setup Audit Trail to gather information about client usage and then Migrated Accounts, Leads, Contacts, Opportunities and sales data from external systems into Salesforce.com instance using Data Loader.  • Hands on experience on service max for customer service and scheduling  • Worked on the Quoting for the management process and billing the data.  • Worked on Product data management for maintaining the standards and quality controls.  • Used money process, oversee income accurately and create constant monetary examination and consistence report with FinancialForce Accounting on Salesforce.  • Worked on the accounting principles for reporting of the financial data  • Implemented Salesforce Development Cycle covering Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Call Center, Chatter & App-exchange applications.  • Made new feature enhancements on Service cloud console view and developed some Visual force components.  • Worked on ERP business forms: request to-money, producing, production network, worldwide financials, and appropriation.  • Experience in Unit Testing, for the customizations and developments done during the project.  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Involved with Salesforce.com Premier Support and handled the support cases with the help Salesforce.com support.    Environment: Saleforce.com, , Apex Classes, Controller Classes, Triggers, Visualforce, Salesforce.com Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Page layouts, Email Services, SOQL, SOSL, Sandbox, Force.com IDE. Salesforce Developer MST Solutions - Chandler, AZ November 2015 to June 2018 Responsibilities:  • Interacted with various business user groups for gathering the requirements for Salesforce implementation and documented the Business and Software Requirements.  • Developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application. Migrated data from external sources and performed insert, delete, upsert, export operations on millions of records.  • Implemented pick lists, dependent pick lists, lookups, master detail relationships, validation and formula fields to the custom objects.  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on a record detail.  • Implemented Salesforce Development Cycle covering Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Call Center, Chatter & App-exchange applications.  • Made new feature enhancements on Service cloud console view and developed some Visual force components.  • Worked on the community cloud to connect with the customers, partners and employees for the data work that to be done.  • Worked on developing customer portal for Developed an Application for portal users  • Prepared reports and dashboards and analytical snapshots for executive levels as well as manager levels  • Worked on ServiceMax in the Field Service management for planning the solutions.  • Field Service management is the platform leverages both customer and asset data and provides all the relevant service functionality and business processes.  • Involved in migrating the data from Oracle database to Salesforce application using Apex Data Loader.  • Worked on release management for overseeing, arranging, booking and controlling a product work through various stages and situations; including testing and conveying programming discharges.  • Worked on change management for the progress and advancement inside a business or comparable association.  • Involved in Data Migration from Traditional Apps to Salesforce Using Data Loader Utility.  • Worked on the financial Reporting for the managing of the financial status.  • Worked on forms that procedure, check, and acknowledge or decay charge card exchanges  • Implemented Single Sign-On with SAML on force.com  • Customized User Roles, Role hierarchies, Profiles and Sharing settings to ensure that the protected data is available only to the authorized users.  • Created templates, approval processes, approval page layouts and defined approval actions on them to automate the processes.  • Worked with SOQL, SOSL queries with Governor Limitations to store and download the data from Salesforce.com platform database.  • Implemented Sales cloud and incorporated the enhanced features as required to streamline the business process.  • Worked on the fiscal operations for the revenue and the measuring of the expenditures.  • Implemented Salesforce Service cloud and Opportunity Management (Case management, Entitlement management, Product & price book, High volume customer portal, Partner portal, Visual force sites) for business support and technical support for its channel customers.  • Designed and developed Service cloud and integration.  • Worked with Apttus CPQ Quoting for analyzing the pricing of the products using the workflows  • Worked on revenue management for analyzing and optimizing the products for the revenue growth.  • Implemented Data Loader through the Command Line Interface to extract the data from database.  • Configured Chatter for the Users in the Organization for collaboration.  • Extensively involved in Data Migration from three legacy systems to Salesforce.  • Migrated data from ACT CRM to Salesforce CRM using Informatica on Demand.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, email alerts, and field updates.  • Conducted training sessions to the UAT users to use the Salesforce Knowledge application and developed a feedback custom report.  • Supported end users and helped them in getting used to the application, generated reports and saved them for further access to the users.    Environment: Saleforce.com, , Apex Classes, Controller Classes, Triggers, Visualforce, Salesforce.com Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Page layouts, Email Services, SOQL, SOSL, Sandbox, Force.com IDE. Salesforce Developer DeWinter Group - San Francisco, CA August 2013 to October 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in identifying, planning and implementing new Salesforce.com features and functions new screens, workflow, force.com objects, reports, apex code) to meet business requirements.  • Developed various Custom Objects, Tabs, Components and Visual Force Pages and Controllers  • Use of data-loader, data exporter and migrated the attachments from legacy CRM to Salesforce, and also worked on salesforce to salesforce.  • Involved in End to end testing and also gathering requirements to feedback from business users.  • Used Sales Force Automation (SFA) for Sales Lead Management, Account and Contract Management and Approvals and Workflow.  • Implemented SFDC based products, including contract management, revenue and rebate management, and other related solutions.  • Developed APEX Classes, Controller Classes and APEX Triggers for various functional needs and implemented the business logic as per the requirements.  • Developed and deployed workflows and approval processes for opportunities and products/ assets management.  • Developed Unit test class for Apex class and worked for improving code coverage.  • Used SOQL & SOSL with consideration to Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Involved in building of the Customer Portal in the organization.  • Used Data Loader for insert, update, and bulk import or export of data from Salesforce.com subjects. Used it to read, extract and load data from comma separated values (CSV) files.  • Integrated Salesforce with Informatica on Demand for the proper mappings and extraction and transformation of data.  • Configured Chatter to track emails from Outlook to Salesforce by following a user.  • Worked with AppExchange Dup Catcher to filter and prevent duplicate records in the organization.  • Responsible for weekly and monthly data export, updates, and backup for the organization.  • Used Apex data loader to Inset, Update, and Import data from Microsoft Excel into Salesforce.com.  • Involved in Salesforce.com application setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization.  • Implemented the requirements on Salesforce.com platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse.  • Tuned ETL jobs/procedures/scripts, SQL queries, PL/SQL procedures to improve the system performance.  • Created and used Email templates in HTML 5 and Visualforce.    Environment: Saleforce.com, , Apex Classes, Controller Classes, Triggers, Visualforce, Salesforce.com Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Page layouts, Email Services, SOQL, SOSL, Sandbox, Force.com IDE. Java Developer OSI Engineering, Inc - Campbell, CA February 2011 to July 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis, Design and Development of different phases of the Process Flow module.  • Developed the web interfaces for Process Flow using JSP technology, which provides flexibility in page design and makes easy for maintenance and modifications.  • Scripting of Test cases based on the Specifications received for the request.  • Responsible for testing of application on various levels like integration and System testing by utilizing various methodologies.  • Responsible for Coding using JSP, Java Servlets, Spring MVC and XML.  • Responsible for proactively monitoring performance, diagnosing problems and tuning queries and databases.  • Worked on Dynamic, object-oriented programming language RUBY  • Used PL/SQL extensively to generate stored procedures and functions to use with Java.  • Involved in implemented all components of the application including database tables, middleware designing, client-side web programming and server-side java programming.  • Solid understanding in Object-Oriented analysis and design. Worked on various Design Patterns, UML and Enterprise Application Integration.    Environment: J2EE, Java Servlets, Java, SQL, PL/SQL, Apache Tomcat, XML, CSS, AJAX. Education Bachelor's