ServiceNow Developer ServiceNow <span class="hl">Developer</span> ServiceNow Developer - Ameren St. Louis • Overall 7 years of professional IT experience and 3 years and 7 months of experience in ServiceNow platform as both Developer and Administrator.  • Design and engineer solutions leveraging all appropriate components offered by ServiceNow to answer the needs for Business workflows, ticketing or other ITSM requirements.  • A ServiceNow Technology Analyst with experience in implementing end-to-end Service Catalog, Incident Management, Configuration & Asset Management, Change Management and Release Management with extensive knowledge of Content Management System.  • ServiceNow specialized in IT Service Management (ITSM), IT Operations Management (ITOM) and IT Business Management (ITBM) applications and provides forms-based workflow application development.  • Implemented ServiceNow ITOM products, including Discovery, Service Mapping, and Active Directory Password Reset (Orchestration) Applications.  • Worked on DISCOVERY and set up mid servers and check for the connectivity, Became an expert in troubleshooting Discovery tool. Worked on Orchestration and Service Mapping.  • Configured Service Now Discovery tool to load configuration items to CMDB. Created Custom Probes, Sensors to load custom attributes.  • Worked in configuring ServiceNow on Windows/UNIX platform with back-end as Oracle 10g Database.  • Experience in SaaS software configuration and development using Web Services and Simple Object Access Protocol, XML/RPC, and AJAX.  • Experience in preparing Design document, a Flow diagram, Class & Sequence diagrams for an application.  • Participated in upgraded versions of ServiceNow. (Istanbul, Jakarta, Kingston).  • Mid Server Process Configuration for Windows & Linux, Workflows, Configuration Management Database (CMDB).  • Good Knowledge of CMDB and IT Asset Management Services (ITAM)  • Well, experience in software analysis, design, and development of web-centric, object-oriented enterprise applications using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Well experienced in MVC architecture, Struts, JSF2, Spring MVC including Validations and business flow of applications.  • Experience with Service Portal creation and maintenance and Well versed in AngularJS scripting as well as CSS.  • Deployment Automation and Software delivery using Shell scripting with tools like DSM and ITCM.  • Extensive knowledge of database transactions management for database related changes by integrating JDBC, Hibernate with spring.  • Was involved in the design and development of Presentation Tier using JSP, HTML, DHTML, XHTML CSS and JavaScript and AJAX.  • Used application servers like WebLogic, WebSphere, JBoss and Tomcat servers based on the client requirements and project specifications.  • Expertise in using IDE like Eclipse and NetBeans for debugging and coding standards.  • An effective communicator with excellent relationship building & interpersonal skills. Strong problem solving& organizational abilities. Good in leading, mentoring, coaching, and motivating the team to deliver the best result.  • Working experience of various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as Design, Code Construction and Testing Methodologies and good working knowledge on Software Development Methodologies like RUP, Agile Scrum, Waterfall, and V-model. Work Experience ServiceNow Developer Ameren St. Louis January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked on Service modules for ITOM to create reports and dashboards and jumpstart RISC networks ITOA for analytics.  • Worked on many Server-side Scripts, UI Actions for developing CMDB and ITSM with ITOA.  • Developed Service Catalog for ITSM which includes developing and create items, workflows, Catalog and giving it an enhanced view using the Service Portal.  • Developed Script Includes to pull data from CIs and tag to ADM using jumpstart and create upstream and downstream dependencies on connected-based dependency mapping integrating with change Management.  • Modified and enhanced existing catalog items by using business rules and client scripts and make them portal ready.  • Worked with ITOM Discovery using Horizontal and Top-down discovery patterns by flow of phases like Scanning, Classification, Identification and integrating Active Directory and setup MID server for network infrastructure.  • Worked and developed many custom workflows and created multi use standard workflow for Catalog Items.  • Mapping all business services with dependencies through ECC Queue from MID servers.  • Worked on Fix Scripts to create and delete routing rules.  • Worked on UI Macros to create pages as templates in catalog items.  • Created Order Guides as per the client requirements and maintained.  • Involved in the analysis of end-user requirements and business rules based on given documentation and worked closely with tech leads and Business analysts in understanding the current ServiceNow system.  • Delivered project deliverables on time and within the agreed acceptance criteria in a hybrid methodology environment as they attempted to transition to an Agile Methodology.  • Working with Network Operation teams to integrate CIs and map dependencies based on critical levels which include security governance compliance briefing.  • Worked on Network Operations on Network Infrastructure migration projects involving Firewalls and Routers and troubleshooting them.    Environment: Service Now Jakarta, ServiceNow Kingston, ServiceNow Madrid, ServiceNow Portal, ITIL, ITSM, ITOM AngularJS, Service Watch, Windows, XML, HTML, Python and Networking. ServiceNow Developer/Admin Transact Futures February 2017 to December 2018 Responsibilities:  • Worked on various modules of ServiceNow like Incident management, Change management and Problem management, Service Catalog, CMDB, and Reporting.  • Integrated with various Cloud environments like Amazon Web Services, Microsoft Azure accounts to the instance through service accounts.  • Created catalog items for cloud platforms and responsible for creating cloud portal.  • Configured ServiceNow discovery, Service Mapping and orchestration.  • Performs integrations and process automation using ServiceNow Orchestration.  • Performed the task of using Discovery to load configuration information to CMDB.  • Good understanding and hands-on experience on ECC Queue and discovery process flow.  • Worked on Service Mapping to define business services, troubleshoot the discovery and mapping process as well as create new discovery patterns for ITOM on MID servers.  • Worked on Business Service mapping. Wrote scripts in the sensors in order to map CI's so that the end user can have a graphical representation of CI's and their relationship through BSM  • Worked on Discovery and set up mid servers and check for the connectivity and data collection and event management, Became an expert in troubleshooting Discovery tool.  • Developed custom UI pages related to an application and for a custom login page too.  • Wrote many inbound email actions to ease the work of creating incidents from an inbound email.  • Developed ESS functionality and implemented appropriate workflow.  • Worked on Discovery Customizations with transformation of class data and restructuring discovery zone coverage for multiple probes.  • Automat scheduled jobs to run scripts in backend to import XML files automatically from a specific TCP port.  • Setting up LDAP Server and LDAP Listener for updating the user and group table record.  • Developing custom probes and sensors to populate CMDB with pertinent asset data via JavaScript, Perl, and PowerShell.  • Worked on the developing and integration of third-party applications into ServiceNow using APIs and Web Servers.  • Experience in working with Script Includes and Scripted Web Services.  • Worked with Finance team in developing an application to automate the process.  • Developed solutions in the ServiceNow platform that are ITIL V3compliant and defined business solutions for ITIL users.  • Used the development tools provided in Widget Editor to write AngularJS, CSS, and JavaScript to power a portal.  • Worked on loading the data into ServiceNow using import sets also part of migration to Jakarta.  • Worked with infrastructure teams mainly with network Operations for Mapping CIs and there dependencies and also Event Management.  • Worked on ITOM CI, Network and Cloud AWS infrastructure discovery and create tables according groups for change management system with ITIL process.  • Worked with Networking devices on mapping them to servicenow and also Involved in Network deployment projects for guiding them through Change management process.  • Worked with network teams in deploying new routing and switching techniques to follow standards and ITIL process work flow.    Environment: Service Now Jakarta, ServiceNow Kingston, ServiceNow Portal, ITIL, ITSM, ITOM, Python, AngularJS, Angular 2.0, Service Watch, Windows, SQL*Plus, SQL*Loader, XML, HTML, Oracle 11g, Toad, and UNIX. ServiceNow Developer/Admin Liquidity Services - Washington, DC November 2016 to January 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the technical architecture and created the detail design.  • Perform day to day administration of the ServiceNow Tool Maintain business services and configuration item relationships in ServiceNow tool.  • Created catalog items for cloud platforms and responsible for creating cloud portal.  • Performed integrations for the cloud.  • Responsible for the incident, change, problem integrations with cloud-based applications.  • Implementing ServiceNow Discovery and CMDB and integrating it with Change management.  • Worked on Service Mapping Tool to map Tier 0, Tier 1 and Tier2 applications.  • Develop and manage application code, user interface, and third-party integration components.  • Worked on business requirements and technical specifications for ITSM platform.  • Develop / Configure workflows, forms, and underlying logic using SCRUM / Agile methodologies and Worked on loading the data into ServiceNow using import sets.  • Developed automated mappings to schedule a load of flat files on the daily, weekly and monthly basis.  • Test Service-Now form and reports for correct mapping of the objects and data correctness.  • Involved in testing reports for correct mapping of the objects and data.  • Developed new service catalog items and fix bugs in incident, problem and change management.  • Creation of 3rd party realm and updating existing 3rd party application in ADFS.  • Provided subject matter expertise, acted as technical product advocate and designed, developed and implemented ITIL processes, ITSM, ITAM, SACM, Knowledge, Demand and Release Management modules within ServiceNow platform.  • Performed routine troubleshooting exercises for CI errors for WMI (Windows), SSH (Unix), and SNMP (Network) devices during Classification, Identification and Exploration stages of Discovery.  • Performed mapping using ServiceNow Service Watch.  • Integration with ADDM (Discovery Tool) into CMDB via CMDB Sync.  • Responsible for creating various workflows for Incident Management, Change Management, Service Requests and SLA's.  • Configured multiple Catalog Items Front-end web / GUI components using JavaScript, CSS, HTML5, AngularJS, PowerShell, shell scripting.  • Utilized Java Scripting in Business Rules, Client Scripts, UI Policies and UI actions to deliver solutions that automate and audit business processes to customize the instance as per Business needs.  • Experience in working with Scripted Web services, Script Includes, JavaScript and Jelly Scripting.  • Used Object/Relational mapping tool Hibernate to achieve object persistence.  • Involved in creation of business rules, client scripts, UI policies, UI Actions as per the requirements.  • Created XML Schema, XML template and used XML SAX/DOM API to parse them.  • Migration of application from Istanbul to Jakarta and handling the TEST and Support process with the necessary fixes.  • Works with engineers and application developers' groups to implement solutions for the company's LDAP services.  • Writing the Catalog client scripts and UI policies to make client-side changes.  • Developed solutions using JavaScript, Web Services, SOAP, and other web technologies to integrate ServiceNow with internal, external systems and tools.  • Developed Service Catalog items based on the requirement provided by the stakeholders.  • Installed MID Servers on remote desktop and conducted tests required for Discovery.  • Created notifications based on user requirements and also configured inbound email actions to create incidents or requests.  • Participated in validating Form and Table level using UI Policies in ServiceNow.    Environment: ServiceNow, ITIL, ITSM, ITOM, HTML, XML, JavaScript, AngularJS, Angular 2.0 LDAP, JIRA, VPN, SSO, REST API, SOAP, SLA, MID Server, Airwatch, and CMDB. ServiceNow Developer/Admin Century Link - Springfield, IL January 2016 to September 2016 Responsibilities:  • Implementation, Customization, and Configuration of different Service Manager Modules like Change, Request, ESS, Service Desk, Incident, Service Catalog, Problem, and SLM.  • Worked as a developer for an End-To-End development for a refactoring project.  • Used data sources to migrate the data from excel sheets to ServiceNow through transform maps.  • Involved in all product design reviews to verify that design meets quality standards and functional/technical requirements.  • Re-built Service Catalog Items with minimal time usage on submitting a ticket by getting together the teams to provide their valuable suggestions and making it easy to understand the new release.  • During development worked with JavaScript, XML to create front-end and back-end components such as forms, buttons, views, pages, business rules and workflows.  • Responsible for Berlin upgradation in ServiceNow and involved in the analysis of the impact on the existing customization after Berlin up gradation.  • Managing Data accurately by creating Tables and the App Creator Lab, Import Sets Lab and CMDB Lab which in turn helps in the easy flow of data when necessary.  • Used ACLs for controlling the security mechanism in ServiceNow.  • Developed and configured Business Rules, Script Includes, UI Policies, UI Actions, Catalog Client Scripts and Client Scripts, Scheduled Jobs, Wizard panels and Wizard Clients scripts, Content item etc.  • Worked on ITOM MID server for discovery and mapping network/services and create tables with groups using Horizontal discovery pattern and create portals for ticketing system.  • Worked with Apache Jelly to create various kinds of UI pages and Macro templates.  • Implemented JDBC Export to execute custom SQL queries in the target database based on requirement.  • Created Data Sources from various external applications, scripts to parse incoming data and transform into ServiceNow.  • Developed reports as per requirements from management.  • Documented all implementations and best practices defined by the team.  • Trained Service Desk team and organized meetings to review content and testing efforts for testing in UAT for quarterly releases.  • Currently working to develop new service catalog items and fix bugs in incident, problem and change management.    Environment: ServiceNow, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery, Prototype, JavaScript, Webservices, SOAP, SQL, XML, HTML, iFrames, AJAX, Shell scripting, Log4j, Integrations, Cloud services, ITIL, SCRUM ServiceNow Admin Kaiser Permanente - Pleasanton, CA August 2015 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Implement Catalog Items, developing different SLA's and generating reports.  • Worked on creating new Users, Groups, Roles and customizing catalog applications using Workflows, Business rules, and Client Scripts.  • Worked with Incident Management application, Problem Management, Change Management applications in escalating issues, logging, catering, diagnosing, resolving, monitoring, and reporting in SNOW.  • Used ITIL practices to implement ServiceNow applications in phase by phase approach, created SLAs and participated in running SLAs and responsible for closing successfully in ServiceNow.  • Implemented ServiceNow ITSM applications utilizing ITIL V3 benefits best practice processes, methods, testing, and training projects for multiple, diverse organizations.  • Customized Incident/Problem/Change/Service catalog applications using Business rules, Client scripts, Workflows in ServiceNow.  • Worked with dynamic HTML components: pyhton, AJAX, HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS and CSS.  • Coordinated installation of ServiceNow upgrades and/or service packs.  • Developed and managed the preparation of systems, test criteria and control of upgrades, service packs, new functionality, enhancements and error correction.  • Created Custom objects, custom fields, Picklist, role-based page layouts, Workflow Alerts and Actions, and Approval Workflow, Validation Rules, Approval Processes, custom Tabs, custom reports, report folders, report.  • Create templates with custom requirements from different teams for request and change adding custom tabs, options and validators and ticket flow.  • Worked on ITIL tools like BMC Remedy, HP Service Manager, and ServiceNow.  • Member on the migration from Altiris 7.1 to SCCM 2012 environment being the point of contact for the outsourced company to assist with this project.  • Assisted in rebuild of the Altiris infrastructure with backups and decommissioning.  • Implemented Incident Management, Problem Management, Change Management, Event Management, and SCCM integration service, ITOM, ITSM, CMDB, PPM, SNOW, Reporting, and Service Catalog in ServiceNow.  • Develop custom detailed reports in Altiris and SCCM 2012.  • Responsible for the ServiceNow tool administration module and creation of new Users, Groups, Roles, IT Services, Application, Business Services, Routing rules and Blackout Freeze rule.  • Wrote Classifiers and Identifiers to direct the discovery tool to gather the information of the configuration items with no error.  • Involved in the complete end to end cycle of coding, testing, debugging, maintaining and refining the computer software in Service Now to produce the required product in an Agile development environment.  • Design solutions to enhancement requests by developing with JavaScript and implementing workflows.  • Wrote business rules to avoid empty configuration items to be stored in CMDB after discovery tool runs a scheduled job.  • Configure ServiceNow tool for the defined processes. Design and develop scripts for any customization required.  • Worked on ITOM Discovery process and troubleshooting, along with service mapping for CI's.  • Supporting Power shell scripting in workflows.  • Worked in CI ITIL change management team for verifying change requests and its workflow with compliance/disaster recovery systems in company and prove them.    Environment: ServiceNow, Asset Management, Incident Management, Problem Management, Calgary Release of ServiceNow tool (Incident, Problem, service catalogs), ITOM, PPM, HTTP, FTP, ServiceNow ITSM tool, Java scripts, Jelly Script, REST, Workflows and HP quality center, SDLC, HP ALM. Java Developer Parexel - IN April 2012 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of design and development using Rational Unified Process.  • Used Rational Rose for the Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams to represent the detailed design phase.  • Developed a web-based reporting for Credit Monitoring System with HTML, JSTL 1.2, Custom tags.  • Developed user interface on Jakarta Struts 1.1 Framework using JSP 2.0 and HTML.  • Used Java/J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate, Session Facade, Data Transfer Object (DTO) and Service Locator in the project extensively, which facilitates clean distribution of roles and responsibilities across various layers of processing.  • Developed Struts Action Class which route submittals via Business Delegate to Business appropriate components and render retrieved information.  • Used Web services for transmission of large blocks of XML data using SOAP.  • Used XML and SOAP with SAX parser to transfer data between applications.  • Used Entity Java Beans for persistence.  • Used SQL stored procedures with JDBC API for storing, updating user request.  • Participated in database design using Oracle10g.  • Used Web-sphere Application Server 5.0 for deploying various components of the application.  • Used WebSphere Application Development 5.1.2 for developing the application.    Environment: J2EE 1.3 specification, IBM WAS 5.0, WSAD 5.1.2, Spring 2.0.6, Struts 1.1, Hibernate 2.0, Rational Rose, XML, SOAP, SAX, JSP 1.2, EJB 2.0, JSTL 1.2, IBM MQ Series 5.1, HTML, JDBC, JavaScript, Servlets 2.3, CVS 2.0, Oracle9i, UNIX. Skills Api, C++, Html, Javascript, Python, Svn, Xml, Xsl, Ant, Clearcase, Clearquest, Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Jndi, Jsp, Servlets, Cisco Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Application Tools / Frameworks  ServiceNow (ITSM, ITOM Tool), Manage Engine (ITSM, ITOM Tool), HP Service Manager, NetBeans, Eclipse, Springs, Dreamweaver CS4, MySQL Workbench, Orchestration    Languages C, C++, Java, J2EE, JavaScript, XML, XSL, HTML, XHTML, CSS, SQL, Python  IDE's SVN IDE, Force.com IDE, Pycharm  Version Control Tools Rational ClearCase, VSS, WinCVS, Requisite Pro, ClearQuest  Operating Systems Windows XP/Vista/7/10, Linux, Macintosh  Web/J2EE Tech Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Java beans, JNDI, HTML, AJAX, API, DOJO, JavaScript, CSS, XML, EJB, Hibernate, Web services, JSR 168/286  Tools Log4j, JUnit, Apache Ant  App & Web Servers Liferay 5.x/6.X, Weblogic Server 9.x/10.x, Jboss4.x, Tomcat 5.x/6. x., Apache  Networking  TCP/OSI, LAN, WAN, Wireless, Firewalls CISCO ASA, Routing OSPF, BGP, EIGRP with CISCO ISR/CSR, Switching STP, VLANs 802.1x with Cisco Catalyst 3750, 3850, 6500 series and nexus 5k, 7k, 9k and Juniper 4300 series and SRX firewalls