SR. Android Application Developer SR. Android Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> SR. Android Application Developer - AGCO Corporation Duluth, GA • Around9+years of professional experience and latest development experience.  • Knowledge and exposure to full Software Development Life Cycle including design, data modeling, software implementation, and documentation.  • Developed multiple android application in different types of version from Android 2.0 to Android 9.0.  • Strong expertise in building blocks of android: Activity, Intent, Content provider, Services and Broadcast Receivers.  • Extensively worked with Android SDK, Eclipse IDE , Android ADT plugins, and also Android studio.  • Expertise in developing well design custom View, SQLite, JAVA and HTML.  • Strong expertise in creating responsive UI for various screen resolutions.  • Expertise in implementing multithread technologies such as Handlers, AsyncTask, Threads.  • Experience in developing application using Fragments, Activity work flow, Custom Action Bar navigation and design and implemented launcher Menus.  • Strongly experienced in Android Webservices implementation like REST and SOAP.  • Designed GIU and Interfaces with Services for mobile application and Asynchronous programing in android (such as Thread pool, Tasks and services).  • Expertise in integration in Google analytics, GCM push notification and Google Maps as well.  • Extensively worked on Memory-leaks, Offline line Data save and sync to server, content providers, and multi-screen supports.  • Refactored the legacy code with Dagger dependency injection library to create reusable, testable interchangeable modules.  • Experience in consuming web services (REST/SOAP) and processing data (XML/JSON).  • Sloid foundation in computer science, with strong competencies in data structures, algorithms and optimization techniques.  • Expertise in integration payment Gateways like PayPal, Pay zippy, and Braintree payment Gateway.  • Used Android SDK, Android Studio, Core JAVA, Native Android Development and Kotlin to develop Android apps.  • Experienced in using DOM and SAX parser to process, validate, parse and extract data from XML files.  • Expertise in Implementing Intent Service and its communication with Activity/ Fragment.  • Expertise in implementation of AIDL Inter process communication.  • Familiar with android location-based services and implemented Google maps.  • Good experience in ExoPlayer library which is used for Dynamic Adaptive Streaming over HTTP (HTTP DASH).  • Experience in various control systems like GIT, SVN and application sever like Tomcat.  • Hand-on experience in complete project life cycle, with domain knowledge in mobile application development and basic implementation of PHP Web services.  • Good knowledge on Android Material designing (creating Ripples, Paper transformation).  • Experience working on Android frameworks and contents like Cloud interface, Bluetooth, sensors, E-mails, SMS, GPS and REST web services. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SR. Android Application Developer AGCO Corporation - Duluth, GA June 2018 to Present Description:AGCO Corp. is global leader in design, manufacture and distribution of agriculture equipment. It offers responsive service and empowers people to make decisions about agriculture machinery.    Responsibilities:  • Worked in different phases of project life cycle like design, development and testing of application for Android mobile devices.  • Developed App screens and its workflow using Activity and Fragments associated with view groups, using views such as Recycler Views and Scroll Views.  • Implemented web views, list views & populated lists from database using simple adapters.  • Worked on Cloud interface, Bluetooth, sensors, and REST web services.  • Constructing Http requests, fetching server response and parsing feeds wherever required.  • Used Retrofit to make an Interface to automatically handle the error function, and caching to API.  • Used Android Framework APIs such as Google Maps, Camera, Resource Manager, Fragments, Location Manager, and Notification Manager.  • Developed the UI screens using Android SDK and Eclipse plug-in to support Portrait and Landscape modes.  • Used Retrofit to make a parent Callback Interface to automatically handle the error function, and caching to API.  • For representing, modifying and composing the data sources used Rx Java  • Utilized tools such as Gradle to streamline build automation and testing.  • Used Eclipse and Android Studio for developing, debugging, coding and deployment of the applications  • Experience using AWS to store and retrieve huge data by Client-Server interaction.  • Improved the current data model architecture by using MVP pattern and also used Dagger 2 dependency injection to avoid hard coupling.  • Used Rx Java in enhancing the level of abstraction around threading  • Integrated Google Cloud Messaging (GMS) for sending notifications to registered users about new exciting offers, deals and discounts coupons.  • Embedded Google Maps API, GPS Location Data into app with zooming controls.  • Integrating the application with analytics to log User Sessions and Touch Gestures.  • Involved in development and enhancements of features to restrict the usage based on Authorization and Authentication tokens.  • Experience in the required GUI by making modifications to the XML files.  • Worked on Continuous Integration and code version using GIT.  • Debugged application using ADB, Trace View, DDMS and Log Cat.  • Worked with JSON library to parse JSON files.  • Experience with authenticated sessions using OAuth and authentication tokens.  • Integrating libraries such as Retrofit, Dagger 2 in application development.  • Implemented TDD testing mechanism and build Unit test cases using JUNIT  • Managed development with a team of Android developers, back-end and front end developers.    Environment: Android SDK 2.2, Android 7.1/ 8.0/ 8.1, SQLite 3.6, RX- JAVA, JAVA, Eclipse IDE 4.5, Android API's, JDK 1.6, XML, JSON, GPS, ADT Plug-in, CVS (version control), GMS, Gradle, TDD, JUNIT, Dagger 2, JSON, Dagger dependency Injection, JNI, Logcat, DDMS console. Sr. Android Application Developer Heartland Payment Systems - Plano, TX September 2016 to May 2018 Description: Heartland Payment Systems is a Global Payments company. It's a leading worldwide provider of payment technology services that delivers innovative solutions driven by customer needs. It allows customers to accept all payment types across a variety of distribution channels in many markets around the world.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the full life cycle of the project including planning, designing, development, testing and deployment.  • Discussed the requirements with the client and analyzed the requirements.  • Designed the screens using MVVM pattern for the application with Eclipse IDE.  • Designed and developed network frameworks to consume REST APIs using Retrofit to fetch user profile and daily transaction details.  • Developed custom Java and Kotlin UI libraries for use by third-party apps.  • Implemented Notification Manager to display updates on the notification bar.  • Utilized GPS location-based services and Google Maps API to enable Google map search for locations in close proximity.  • Used RX- Java to accomplish background service tasks and Restful interactions.  • Used RESTFUL web services to communicate with the server for android.  • Implemented Kotlin with Android content for implementing features like sending E-mails, SMS, etc. from the app.  • Used SQLite to cache the data received from the RESTful web services.  • Used third party libraries like Dagger 2 and Butterknife into the Gradle and using them for improving performance of the applications, views injection and loose coupling.  • Refactored the legacy code with Dagger dependency injection library to create reusable, testable interchangeable modules.  • Utilized Kotlin for higher order functions and delegate design pattern.  • Used Retrofit to facilitate data communication over network requests.  • Key resource for layout and UI work utilizing xml, Views, WebView, List View, Menu Item, Activities, Fragments, Frame, Animations, Notifications, Push Notifications, Loaders, AsyncTask, handler etc  • Used Rx Java to fetch user message and user setting at the same time.  • Experience in XML parsing on client side using JSON, implemented DOM-based implementation of feed parser.  • Implemented the Kotlin with Android studio for smooth functioning of the location based services GPS, Bluetooth on Android  • Integrated the Payment Gateway in the app for processing Credit Card Payments.  • Worked on cross platform Xamarin forms for developing web application on mobile.  • Refactored the code base to optimize start-up time and memory usage.  • Perform code reviews with Crucible tool, create checkstyle with Jenkins as CI tool  • Took care of Code Review, Code Fixes and bug Fixes.  • Tested the app across different versions of Android and different android phones to assure quality and performance.    Environment: Android SDK, Android 7.0/ 8.0/ 8.1/ 9.0, SQLite 3.6, Eclipse IDE 4.6, Java, Gradle, Dagger dependency injection, Android API's, Retrofit, BLE, Android NDK, Kotlin 1.2/ 1.3, Android design library, Jenkins, JUnit, JDK 1.6, XML, JSON, HTML, RX- JAVA CSS, SQLite, GPS service, Log cat, Windows 7, Git (code repository) Android Developer My Fitness Pal - San Francisco, CA October 2014 to August 2016 Description:Fitness Pal is a free app which tracks your diet and exercise. create your own custom diet pattern and exercises, Scan food database, Calculate macros in recipes, track all major nutrients, progress reports, customized goals based on your diet and workout profile.    Responsibilities:  • Utilized advanced functions of the android software development kit (SDK) in order to optimize the flexibility of apps to different mobile devices.  • Involved in prototyping, analysis, specification, design, and implementation phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Designed and developed User Interface with all Material design guidelines and patterns provided by Google Android.  • Design screens using MVP pattern for the application with Android Studio ID.  • Embedded user login functionality with client server and Third party login API.  • Used Android services to deal with Bluetooth communication.  • Included Drawer layout for ease of navigation throughout the application.  • Involved in designing the logical flow for the application for different components.  • Developed app screen and its workflow using Activities and Fragments which has views such as list view and scroll view.  • Worked with parallel teams to develope code of Patient module using C#.NET  • Played a key role in writing application logic using Eclipse IDE and Android SDK.  • Worked with Dagger for dependency injection to develop clean, maintainable code.  • Used Android to realize camera/video application, familiar with RESTful webservice and httpconnnections, liking JSON, HttpClient.  • Performed on device debugging using ADB and tested application in device using Logcat, DDMS.  • Used the Wi-Fi Manager of the Android API to establish the connections between client and server.  • Integrated the camera features using the Camera API.  • Analyzing the application with Trace view tool to improve the performance.  • Test and error logging on different version and devices of Android.  • Implemented and error reporting system for future development support.  • Provided the support as part of post implementation support.  • Utilized Retrofit library with OkHttp for network calls.  • Has worked on continuous integration automation server like Jenkins to build and test the app and check updates in the source control system  • Provided the KT to the testing team on android framework.    Environment: Android SDK, Android 5.0/ 6.0/ 7.1.2, BLE, Location API's, JSON, C# Eclipse IDE 4.4, JAVA, Jenkins, Web view, GPS service, JSON, Google Maps, Broadcast receivers, Git-Hub, SQLite3, Multi-threading, HTTP, Logcat, Wi-Fi manager. Android Developer Sears Holding Corp - Hoffman Estates, IL July 2012 to September 2014 Description: ears Holdings Corporation was an American holding company It was the parent company of the chain stores Kmart and Sears and was founded after Kmart purchased Sears filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy and sold its assets to the ESL    Responsibilities:  • Designed UI using views provided by Android and created custom views when required. Involved in updating the application UI and application data structure.  • Configure MixPanel SDK with GCM to enable push notification services to send order updates, tracking info and more.  • Create UI screen, call API services to build a feature 'Save coupons to profile to use in store and online.  • Write code to configure Wi-Fi connections, pair with Bluetooth devices, network access and receive data from Internet.  • Implemented SQLite data base for adding/editing cart items.  • Used JIRA to keep track of outstanding bugs, participated in daily standups, sprint reviews, Kickoffs.  • Implemented Payment gateway using PayPal.  • Make asynchronous HTTP requests, handle responses in anonymous callbacks and streamed JSON uploads using Android Asynchronous Http Client library.  • Worked on backend Mango DB API services asynchronously and display list in RecyclerView  • Using PhoneGap to access device APIs such as camera and geolocation to deploy an Android app.  • Implement the user interface by using Custom Views, AndroidSlidingUpPanel, Paging indicator, Sliding Menu, Recycler Views, Coordinator Layout.  • Involved in user meetings to gather the requirements of the application and worked on application designing, testing, deployment and maintenance.  • Implement a full native keyboard into the application, replacing their bugged custom one.  • Map tests to requirements in order to track test coverage and support for data-driven test cases.  • Involve in fast prototyping of user interactions and iteration based on feedback from peer.  • Work collaboratively with a team in an Agile and CI/CD environment  • Redesigned the cart checkout process with enhancements such as the accordion-style interface that acts as guide to complete user purchase.  • Implemented widget plugin project using Search API, Content Providers, and Database API.  • Developed business logic along with connecting the application to the server with REST web services.  • Implemented Location based service using Google Maps API that enables to search the nearest store located.    Environment: Android SDK, Git, Bean Stack, Android 5.0/ 6.0, MVC, REST, JSON, BLE, JAVA, Pro Guard, Google Maps API, CI/CD Tools, JSON, Android Emulator, SQLite, Linux/UNIX, XML. Android Developer Verizon - New York, NY October 2010 to June 2012 Description: oing business as Verizon Wireless, is an American telecommunications company which offers wireless products and services. It is a wholly owned subsidiary of Verizon Communications. Verizon Wireless is the largest wireless telecommunications provider    Responsibilities:  • Planned the application design and database, and executed server back end.  • Developed the User Interface layers for Activities and implemented Fragments within User Interface.  • Integrated location based services using Google Maps API to display locations of the nearest stores.  • Used Implicit Intent Functions to enable access for the application to use media, and other pre-built applications.  • Implemented the payment gateway operation in the application for leads exchange and purchase transaction using Java plugins.  • Used shared preferences to store and retrieve persistent key value pairs across user sessions.  • Inserted suitable code to capture the various Button and Text field events and implemented the desired action for each of the applications.  • Used Android NDK to create the library files to be used by Services.  • Designed various User Interface layouts using custom layouts, buttons, dialog boxes and Widgets.  • Followed agile technologies in front-end development life cycle of application.  • Experience working with remote data via REST and JSON and Android SDK.  • Implemented Notification Manager to display updates on the notification bar.  • Used custom Views and Adapters in various scenarios during project.  • Registered the Broadcast Receivers for the Android system announcements.  • Worked with Notification Service to notify the user and automatically log out for security purpose and update the apps version.  • Understood business requirements and translated them into technical requirements.  • Implemented Notification Manager to display updates on the notification bar.  • Implemented JSON web service calls for server interaction.    Environment: Android 2.0, 3.0, 4.4 versions, Java, Android SDK, ADT, REST, Notification, Android NDK Shared Preferences, Fragments, JSON, SQLite, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, XML, payment gateway, Java Developer Bank of America - Charlotte, NC 2009 to September 2010 Description: Bank of America, is a subsidiary of Bank of America Corporation Bank of America provides the banking products such as working ..    Responsibilities:  • Responsibilities include understanding requirements, analysis, design, development and unit testing of web applications.  • Involved in designing the application. Prepared UML Sequence Diagrams, Class Diagrams, and Activity Diagrams to incorporate in the technical design document  • Designed application using technologies like HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed Spring Hibernate components for backend data retrieval and persistence.  • Used Struts Validator Framework for validation from server.  • Developed Interactive GUI Screens using HTML, JSPs and performed Data validation using JavaScript  • Created different modules using Action classes.  • Writing PL/SQL Queries to get schedule of policy payment and defaults.  • Used Front Controller action servlet that handles the entire Http request coming to the server.  • Developed the application using industry standard design patterns like, Service Locator, Singleton, Business Delegate, MVC, and Factory Pattern for re-usability.  • Implemented Web services components SOAP, WSDL, and UDDI to interact with external systems.  • Secured the REST services using Spring Security and OAUTH framework and created documented REST services using Swagger.  • Created standards and patterns for deploying a spring boot data micro-service architecture to PCF  • Implemented Hibernate (ORM Mapping tool) framework.  • Created Web Services for Client using WSDL which builds SOAP messages for agents.  Environment: Java 1.4, Java Script, CSS, HTML, SOAP, MVC, Spring Security, Hibernate, Struts, Rest, PL/ SQL, Spring Boot, Spring, OAUTH, PCF, REST, ORM. Education Bachelor's Skills C++, DESIGN PATTERNS, Git, GRADLE, GUI, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, JENKINS, JSON, OBJECT-ORIENTED, ORM, PVCS, PYTHON, Subversion, SVN, VISIO, XML, XSLT, ANDROID