Salesforce Developer Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span> Salesforce Developer - Care Centrix Atlanta, GA • 8 years of overall IT experience including 6+ years of experience with salesforce.com CRM platform.  • Experienced in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and project life cycle processes. Highly skilled in salesforce.com (SFDC) development and implementation.  • Strong experience working with Apex classes, Visual force pages, Triggers, Controllers and Controller Extensions, Components, Test Method, Application Design and Development on Force.com platform.  • Proficiency in SFDC Administrative tasks like creating and customizing Profiles, Roles, Users, Page Layouts, Email Services, Approvals, Workflows, Reports, Dashboards, Actions, Tasks, and Events.  • Expert in dealing with the functionalities related to the Service cloud, Sales Cloud, Call center, Chatter and App-exchange applications.  • Experienced in upgrading Apps from Salesforce Classic to Lightning Experience to develop rich user interface and better interaction of pages. Worked on Salesforce1 Platform to build Mobile App by enabling Lightning Components  • Designed junction objects and implemented various advanced fields like Picklist, Controller/dependent pick list Custom Formula Fields, Field Dependencies, Validation Rules, sharing rules and Approval Processes for automated alerts, field updates, and Email generation according to application requirements  • Proficient in Setting Advanced Security Model, Security Settings and controls, Creating Profiles, Roles, Email Services, designing and creating complex relationships, Page Layouts.  • Excellent understanding of CRM business processes like Lead Management, Account Management, Case Management, Quote and Forecasting.  • Knowledge on Salesforce lightning schema builder, process builder, app builder, components and lightning connect.  • Experienced in developing dynamic web apps for mobile and desktop devices by using Aura Framework in Lightning.  • Experienced in building Custom Applications that includes administration, configuration, implementation and support experience with Salesforce.com platform.  • Proficient in Data Migration from Traditional Applications to Salesforce using Data Loader Utility, Apex Data Loader Used Salesforce1 simulator during the development to test if the lightning components works properly on the mobile device.  • Created Apex methods for the lightning controller and helper methods to perform DML operations on the case records.  • Experience in using Force.com Web services API for implementing web services in the application for access to data from different users using REST and SOAP.  • Understanding and writing users stories for implementing of visual forces, SOSL, SOQL, WSDL, partner WSDL and enterprise WSDL, visual force (page, component and controllers) and custom user interfaces using HTML.  • Experience in developing web interfaces for clients both through force.com' Sites and standard web technologies including but not limited to HTML, .NET, CSS, XML and Java Script.  • Good experience and understanding of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Agile with expertise in Requirement gathering, Analysis, Designing, Development and Testing.  • Experienced working in Cross-functional teams, identifying business requirements and supporting sales/marketing efforts. Work Experience Salesforce Developer Care Centrix - Portland, OR November 2017 to Present Description: Blackboard Inc. is an educational technology company, provides education, mobile, communication, and commerce software and related services to clients including education providers, corporations and government organizations.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in project technical design plan, conversions, Mapping, configuration of portions of the SFDC application.  • Implemented SFDC CRM to deliver various reports in departments of Sales, Administration and Marketing.  • Worked with Apex Scheduler to invoke Apex classes at regular intervals.  • Worked with Dynamic Apex to access Objects and Field describe information, execute dynamic SOQL, SOSL and DML queries.  • Experience in building new Applications with the Lightning App Builder and Lightning components.  • Used Salesforce Lightning Inspector to debug the lightning components during the development process.  • Used Salesforce1 simulator during the development to test if the lightning components works properly on the mobile device.  • Created Apex methods for the lightning controller and helper methods to perform DML operations on the case records.  • Responsible for Data load operations using Force.com Apex Data Loader.  • Developed Batch Apex classes and scheduled those using Apex Schedulable classes on hourly basis.  • Worked with SOQL&SOSL queries with Governor Limitations to store and download the data from Salesforce.com platform database.  • Worked on Apttus CPQ configuration and integration.  • Good experience in working on Eclipse IDE with Force.com Plug-in for writing business logic in Apex programming language.  • I also worked on Apttus Advanced Workflow approvals, Apttus order management, created agreement wizards, validation rules, contract templates.  • Provide training and coaching in the use of CPQ CRM systems. Identify training and development gaps and create plans to address.  • Integrate of Application with Salesforce.com with using SOAP and REST web services API.  • Customized Salesforce.com fields, page layouts, record types, list views and queues.  • Worked closely with Sales Operations team and Business Analysts in building Reports and Dashboards.  • Setting up Service Cloud Console, Cases (Web to case, email to case), Solutions, Case Assignment, and CTI Interfaces.  • Managed and implemented customization requests including creating workflow triggers, workflow alerts, automated email responses.  • Extensive experience in using Roles, Profiles, Email Services, Page Layouts, Workflow Alerts and Actions, and Approval Process, Process Builder in Salesforce.com  • Chat servers created with node.js using redis for message routing, but never deployed to production.  • Experience evaluating and integrating Salesforce. AppExchange solutions within overall implementation.  • SFDC integration using web service and apex programing, service entitlements Salesforce.com service cloud functionalities.  • Developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Experienced with creating Workflow rules, validation rules, formula fields, auto assignment rules in the Licensing project.  • Created various Batch jobs and time-based workflows to update the data regularly.  • Supported the data migration activities for migration of the data from various business sources with the support of Salesforce CRM.  • Good knowledge in developing the documents for data model design in sales force CRM.  • Created various Profiles, Roles, and Page Layouts and configured the permissions based on the organization hierarchy requirements.  • Documented and shared the requirements with Salesforce.com consultants for further implementation.  • Successfully implemented Web to Lead and Web to Case in the organization.  • Deployed Apex using Force.com IDE, Force.com Migration Tool and Web Services API.  • Actively involved in most critical phase of the project, in the development and support areas.  • Instrumental in performance tuning of programs during the post Deployment and Deployment period.  • Worked with Business Analysts in solving various cases related to configuration issues and user login issues.    Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Apex Language, Lightning, Apttus CPQ, Visual force Paes, Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Email Services, Rest API, Soap API, Reports, Dashboards, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Security Controls, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Salesforce Sandbox, Controllers, REST API, HTML, Java Script. Salesforce Developer Custom, Extension Controllers - Renton, WA January 2017 to October 2017 Description: DirecTV is an American direct broadcast satellite service provider and broad caster. It provides television and audio services to subscribers through satellite transmissions. Services include the equivalent of many local television stations, broadcast television networks, subscription television services.  Responsibilities:  • Worked with end users for requirements meetings and prepared technical design document based on user requirements.  • Developed Visualforce Pages and provided business logic in Custom, Extension Controllers, wrote wrapper classes to display data from various objects in UI.  • Wrote Apex classes with customized logic using SOQL, Database methods, Apex triggers upon record create/update/delete/merge.  • Implemented Salesforce best practices while writing Triggers, Controllers, Batch, SOQL and avoided reaching governor limits exceptions.  • Built mobile application using salesforce1 Lightning Components, Controllers, Handlers, Events and Aura components.  • Worked on Lightning components, Event registration, handlers and apex classes for performing logic in the actions.  • Developed Apex REST web service classes for inbound calls to Salesforce to retrieve and save data in Salesforce.  • Wrote apex classes for callouts to external system by generating the stubs from the WSDL using native Wsdl2apex.  • Used Eclipse IDE, Developer console, Lightning app builder for configuring, coding, modifying and testing of applications in Salesforce.  • Experience in creating rich user interfaces (UI) using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and AJAX and JSON and Angular.Js.  • Worked with various Salesforce.com objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, Reports, and Opportunities.  • Worked on various Custom Objects, Relationships, Tabs, Lightning apps, Salesforce1, Validation rules, Page layouts, Search layouts, Compact Layouts to organize fields in Classic and Salesforce1, Custom Links/Buttons and Related Lists.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, time triggered tasks, email alerts, field updates to implement business logic.  • Created Email templates, approval processes, approval page layouts and defined approval actions on them to automate the processes.  • Performed admin tasks of managing Users, Roles, Public groups and implemented Role hierarchies, sharing rules and record level permissions using sharing rules and AppExchange managed package installation.  • Worked on data sharing on Opportunity and custom objects using Apex managed sharing using triggers.  Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex, Visualforce, salesforce.com Data loader, Salesforce lightning, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, JENKINS, Service Cloud, Email Services, HTML, Java Script, CSS, Java, SOAP, REST, Web Services, WSDL, ANT, Sandbox, S-controls, Mulesoft, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, SDLC, UAT, Agile, App exchange, AJAX, OTQ, OTR, wave Analytics. Salesforce.Com Developer OppLoans / Investments - Chicago, IL January 2015 to December 2016 Description: The portal provides various products offered by Fidelity Investments, it lets users to browse the catalog, check on various interest rate options and durations and provide a quote like document.  Responsibilities:  • Performed the roles of Salesforce.com Developer and Administrator in the organization.  • Interacted with various business user groups for gathering the requirements for Salesforce.com CRM implementation.  • Involved in Salesforce.com Application Setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization.  • Created Custom objects, custom fields, Pick list, role based page layouts, Workflow Alerts and Actions, and Approval Workflow, Validation Rules, Approval Processes, custom Tabs, custom reports, report folders, report extractions to various formats, design of Visualforce Pages, Snapshots, Dashboards, and Email generation according to application requirements.  • Implemented the requirements on Salesforce.com platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse.  • Worked with various Salesforce.com objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, Reports, APTTUS CLM, APTTUS CPQ and Dashboards.  • Developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Developed various Custom Objects, Tabs, Components and Visualforce Pages.  • Developed and configured various Custom Reports and Report Folders for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  • Developed Custom Objects, Custom Reports and configured the Analytic Snapshots to dump the data on regular basis for the sales performance and lead generation statistics.  • Maintained user roles, security, profiles, and workflow rules wherever necessary.  • Interacted with the Salesforce.com premium tech support team on a regular basis.  Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visualforce Pages, APTTUS CPQ, APTTUS CLM, Data Loader, HTML, Java Script, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Sandbox data loading, Eclipse IDE Plug-in. Salesforce Developer Costco - Seattle, WA October 2012 to December 2014 Description: TD Auto Finance is a competitive U.S. auto financing company focused on providing customers with a personal, worry-free and easy automotive finance experience. TD Auto Finance is part of TD Bank Group, ranked as one of the safest banks in North America by Global Finance Magazine and one of the few Aaa-rated banks listed on the New York Stock Exchange. With offices around the world, TD Bank Group offers a full range of financial products and services.    Responsibilities:  • Prepared documentation including Requirements and Design documents, Configuration Workbooks, UAT Test Cases other documentation as required through the project lifecycle.  • Designed and developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes, extensions and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Created pick lists, dependent pick lists, lookups fields, junction objects, master detail relationships, validation and formula fields.  • Configured the GitHub to maintain the different versions in common development environment.  • Used SOQL & SOSL with consideration to Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects  • Worked with the QA and development teams to create test data sets which fully exercise data validation and end-to-end system functionality.  • Architected and lead the development team to implement custom inline search functionality using JS.  • Involved in Integration with Service Max to provide the Customer Support. Worked on developing the web services classes, WSDL using Apache Axis. Developed Web Services to retrieve data from legacy systems.  • Customized Reports to track usage for productivity and performance of business centers and their sales teams.  • Used Sales Force Automation (SFA) for Sales Lead Management, Opportunity Management, Account and Contact Management, Data Quality Management, and Approvals and Workflow.  • Responsible for Data load operations using Force.com Apex Data Loader.  • Customized company profile, Security Controls and communication Templates of the organization as per the organization requirements.  Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex, Visual Force, Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Sales cloud, Service cloud, Security Controls, Sandbox data loading, Data Loader, SQL, SF Explorer and Eclipse IDE Plug-in. Jr. Java Developer Fidelity - IN July 2010 to September 2012 Responsibilities:  • Developed coding conventions and standards to enhance source code management and increase software maintainability.  • Used Spring MVC on the front end using JSP, spring tags, spring validation framework. Developed several controller classes as required for the design such as Abstract Wizard form controller, Simple Form controller, multi action controller.  • Used JAXB for parsing XML retrieved from the database and populated on the JSP. This xml is received via RMI service call from another application.  • Used Crystal Reports on the backend for generating reports on Oracle 10g Database.  • Developed spring RMI services and web services using SOAP and applied IOC (inversion of control).  • Implemented ANT as a build system with Cruise Control for automatic builds in Development Environment and QA.  • Designed and developed reporting modules for assessing applications performance and client interaction patterns  • Developed structure diagrams, behavior diagrams and interaction diagrams during the design using rational rose.  • Used Hibernate persistence framework on the backend over Oracle 10g database.  • Used Junit Framework for Unit Testing.  • Used rational clearcase for version control.  • Used RAD for development as IDE.  • Used Log4J logging framework for logging messages with various levels written throughout the Java code.  • Involved in deploying and configuring the application on Web logic 10.  • Involved in Coding, Debugging & Code review.  • Provided development support for System Testing, User Acceptance Testing and Production support.  Environment: Java (JDK 1.6), Spring 3.0, Hibernate 3.0, BEA WebLogic 10, Web Services, DHTML, XSLT, HTML, JavaScript, RAD, Crystal Reports, SOAP, RAD, Eclipse 3.5, SOAP, XSD, XSLT, DOM parser, Servlets2.4, JSP 2.0, JAXB, Oracle 10g, Rational Rose 2000, Log 4j, Junit, Rational Clearcase. Education Bachelors in ECE in ECE AAM Engineering College 2010