Sr UI Developer Sr UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr UI Developer - Allstate Raleigh, NC • More than 9 Years of experience in Sr. UI Developer & Designing.  • Strong command in leading Frameworks Team such as Angular.js, backbone.js, bootstrap.js, D3.Js, React.Js and Node.Js.  • Hands on experience in Web Application development using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX and JSON.  • Highly experienced using Drupal and WordPress Content Management Systems (CMS)  • Expertise in developing Service Oriented Architecture Applications with Web Services, SOAP, XSD, WSDL, J2EE technologies.  • Experienced in WEB and GUI development using HTML, DHTML, XHTML, CSS, JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, DOJO, POJO, AJAX, JSON technologies.  • In-Depth understanding of entire web based architectures, web technologies, SDLC and OOAD.  • Expertise in front-end development in working with AJAX frameworks: Angular 2JS (typescript), Angular JS, JQuery, Sencha, YUI, DWR and Dojo.  • Excellent knowledge and experience in Oracle Database, DB2, JDBC, PL/SQL, MS SQL Server, My SQL Server, MongoDB.  • Experience working in various Software Development Methodologies like Agile, Waterfall, SCRUM and TDD.  • Expertise in integrated environment for java such as Eclipse, MyEclipse, RAD, NetBeans, ClearCase and VSS.  • Experience of complex threading, Reactive Extensions.  • Extensively created SharePoint solutions using Typescript.  • Experienced in using Reacts JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Experience in developing and implementing Web Services using SOAP, WSDL  • Experience with Core Java and J2EE using most of the advanced features of Java including spring, Hibernate, iBatis, JDBC, Struts, EJB, Servlets.  • Good at Documenting and Understanding User requirements and System Specifications.  • Excellent Client interaction skills and proven experience in working independently as well as in a team.  • Experienced in Creating Domain Model, Activity Diagrams, and Use Case diagrams, class diagrams, sequence diagrams and Object Model.  • Hands on UML compliant high level design with data flow diagram, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Activity Diagram and Use Cases and documenting for peer developer.  • Excellent Leadership, Technical, Communication, Analytical and Problem Solving skills and ability to get on well with people including cross-cultural backgrounds Work Experience Sr UI Developer Allstate - Dallas, TX April 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed Web Pages by using HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript and using JavaScript frameworks such as Ext JS, Angular 2 and bootstrap.js.  • Developed front end using Bootstrap.js, Angular.js, Node.js, D3.js, Backbone.js, where back end is JAX-RS (Jersey) REST webservice.  • Developed user interfaces using AJAX, JavaScript, JSON, HTML5, and CSS3.  • Providing a responsive, AJAX-driven design using JavaScript libraries such as AngularJS, Node.js, D3.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap.js and Bootstrap.js  • Created a Rich Single Page Application using HTML, CSS, JSON, AngularJS, and REST Services  • Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, Node.JS, ExtJS, ReactJS, AngularJS, knockout JS, Wire-framing, HTML5.  • Developed web services in Java following SOA architecture using RAD.  • Implemented ReactJS to create a dynamically changing website.  • Used angular-cli tool to configuring the angular project and building it for development of Angular application using Angular 4.  • Deploy and administer WordPress ecommerce site and multiple marketing blogs  • Planned, implemented and oversaw server migration of company website to WordPress CMS, with zero downtime and within company deadline  • Tested the web services using Soap Scope server. Prepared Junit test cases to test these web services against all the scenarios.  • Developed a few UI modules for the mobile version of the website using ReactJS.  • Created design mock-ups and wireframes using Adobe Photoshop and Dreamweaver.  • Used ReactJS for search engine optimization.  • Worked on Developing cross browser functionality with Ext JS 6 and Used AJAX, JQUERY to design specs for single page layout using good programming practices  • Developing Web Application in Groovy/Grails with Mongo DB as a data stores using the IntelliJ Idea IDE with the latest Grails SDK, Java.  • Integrated the different pages to be a single page application using Angular 4 and Typescript.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume API's using Component based architecture provided by angular 4.  • Worked on EXT JS with Restful and Soap Web service technologies  • General form validation was done using ES6 closures for Widget-app module.  • Development of front-end application using Angular 2 JS, Dependency injection, Rx and Http modules with Node.js server for future evolutions.  • Used ANT build tool to execute web services by configuring build.xml and building JAR, EAR files.  • Designed domain specific language system using groovy/grails framework.  • Involved in hands on programming on the core application development using multithreading, Groovy and Grails that combines Hibernate and spring.  • Worked with Angular 2 and typescript as part of migration from Angular and vanilla Javascript to Angular 2 and React.  • Worked with various MVC Java frameworks like Angular.JS, EXT.JS, Backbone.JS, Node.JS, Ember.JS, bootstrap.JS, require .JS, D3.JS, etc.  • Created Custom objects on Axeda Platform using Groovy and Grails Script.  • Introduced redux-thunk and Immutable.js as additional libraries to support ReactJS application.  • Use of ReactJS help to refresh the pages and update the changed parts.  • Used NoSQL Databases such as Hive, Hbase; Installed and configured MySQL Databases and performed data load from MySQL to Hadoop.  • Design wireframes and implement UI via WordPress to provide an excellent user experience  • Worked on Single page applications using ANGULAR JS, NODE JS, GULP, and WEBPACK (ES6)  • Worked on building jQuery modules and vue.js apps.  • Used EcmaScript, ReactJS, Flux, Babel, Node and Web-Pack to create a SPA.  • Used JavaScript frameworks such as JQuery, Dojo, Ext JS, CSS preprocessors such as LESS or SASS.  • Constructed powerful and modern frontend architecture, involving React, Redux, and ES6.  • Developed new Widget-app module for MMD 2.0 using React.js with Redux architecture and ES6.  • Created Directives, Services, and Filters using Angular JS with Typescript.  • Worked on creating web service on JMS port with Apache CXF  • Custom HTML markup was written in combination with Vue.js to stream-line JavaScript development.  • Create wireframe mockups for Android tablet device.  • Build up pagination for search results using Ext paging store.  • To limit page-loading delay and visible browser-server interaction used MVC framework with Ajax, JavaScript, Angular.js, Backbone.js and Node.js, D3.js.  • Created design mock-ups and wireframes using Adobe Photoshop and Dreamweaver.  • Wrote unit tests supporting a complete architectural overhaul (from SOAP to REST) of backend  • Architected the frontend solution using React, Relay and GraphQL. Lead the UX and design outsourced teams helping with product ideation to creation. Services for Nordstrom (Node.js, Immutable.js, RxJS, Chai)  • Designed Frontend with object oriented JavaScript Framework like angular.js, Node.js, Backbone.js, Knockout.js, React.js/Redux, Spine.js, Ember.js, Require.js, Express.js, Pdf.js and Experience with client side templating like Handlebars.js.  • Built administrator page displaying profile information in React.js and GraphQL.  • Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application.  • Used the Middleware, Redux-saga, and Redux-promise in application to retrieve the data from the external API's and perform the RESTful Services.  • Developed application as Enterprise JavaScript using - AngularJS, NodeJs, Web sockets, Jasmine, Karma, NPM, Gulp, Protractor etc.  • Develop custom drag and drop tree view, web application to transfer and arrange HL7 data using Angular, html5, Vue.js.  • Technology leadership for the direction of the Cloud based application using Node.JS, PDFJS, MongoDB and MS SQL Server integrating to a proprietary framework.  • Developed Single Page applications using AngularJS using components, directives using Typescript.  • Designed front-end user interfaces with ReactJS by creating many components and modules. Used Redux SAGA to view and action creators as pure functions and it allows to model state transitions using familiar JavaScript constructs.  • Replaced legacy custom state management system with Redux & Redux Sagas  • Involved in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Worked on implementing React.js flux based page updates using React fetchers, state mutating actions and stores. Extensively used React Flux implementations Alt and Redux and their architectures.  • Involved in the development of presentation layer and GUI framework using HTML. Client Side validations were done using JavaScript and AngularJS.  • Worked on Java/J2EE framework APIs like spring, iBatis and Hibernate.  • Built Single Page Apps using Angular and Typescript for Responsive Design.  • Regression testing of WordPress plugins on staging site prior to deployment to production site  • Developed Single Page applications using AngularJS using components, directives using Typescript.  • Used Reactive Extensions for JavaScript (RxJS) in Angular2 to make the HTTP requests to the REST API for getting the patient details.  • Developed applications using Java, J2EE Standards, Java Server Faces, Struts, spring, Hibernate, Oracle, and MVC Architecture.  • Used Web Services for creating rate summary and used Rest, WSDL and SOAP messages for getting insurance plans from different module and used XML parsers for data retrieval.  • Software is built as a web app on Node.js with Backbone.js. AngularJS CSS is compiled with LESS and HTML.  • Usage of version control repository Git, GitHub and JIRA  • Created tables, triggers, stored procedures, SQL queries, joins, integrity constraints and views for multiple databases, using MS SQL Server.  • Use of open-source technologies are used extensively to provide leading-edge solutions - Eclipse, Maven, REST, SOAP, RabbitMQ.  • Followed Agile and SCRUM in development process.  • Contributed to organization of testing and quality improvement process (JIRA, Confluence)  • Used CVS to maintain source and version management and used Eclipse as IDE.  • Installed and configured the development environment using Web-logic on Windows NT  Environment: HTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript, Angular.js, AJAX, React.JS, JSON, Redux, Dojo, Wireframes, RXJS, Typescript, Node.js, Backbone.js, Vue.js, Bootstrap, Groovy, Grails, D3.js, Extjs, ES6, Java, Oracle, GraphQL, PL/SQL, MS-Sql, Thunk, JDBC, Flux, Maven, React Router, Web Services, SOAP, REST, Ant, RAD, Agile, Scrum, CVS, Eclipse, Saga, Subversion (SVN), Windows XP, Linux. Sr UI Developer Offer - New York, NY October 2015 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  • Worked on variety of Frontend JavaScript frameworks like AngularJS, BackboneJS, ReactJS, Node.js, JQuery, JQuery UI and good knowledge in EmberJS.  • Developed single page application with Angular JS, Node.js,  • Created single page applications using Node.js, AngularJS, and ReactJS.  • Worked with Bootstrap for compiling CSS, REST API, ReactJS, JavaScript and building the System with the convenient methods with Angular JS.  • Extensively used HTML5, ReactJS, AngularJS, JSON, AJAX and DOM scripting for form validations.  • Created client website running on a Node.js, using the Express framework, Jade, AngularJS and Backbone.js for front end MVC/templating.  • Implemented User interface (UI) entire application using HTML, CSS, Custom Tag Libraries, JavaScript, XML and XSLT.  • Created the JSP Screens for the Bank Maintenance, Payment Processing using the AJAX calls. Tested the Web Services for the connectivity issues.  • Used Spring Integration message framework, Spring IO/Spring Boot to implement the functionality. Used SOAP UI to test the new Web Services  • Developed user interface using HTML, XHTML, CSS, JSON and JavaScript to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Technical evaluation and acceptance of WordPress plugins and software  • Evaluation of WordPress themes to optimize and enhance site performance  • Design all UI elements, wireframes, and comps with Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator and InDesign.  • Configured with gulp.js to test the Typescript with TSLint.  • Developed and executed software systems utilizing JavaScript and Groovy.  • Worked on JIRA development with JAVA and Groovy scripting.  • Experience in Angular JS, NodeJS, Ember.js, Bootstrap, Backbone, D3.js, Twitter Bootstrap framework, java script, HTML 5, and CSS.  • Coordinate with the UX/UI design team in order to build the mobile wireframe through scalable HTML, CSS and SASS.  • Design and developed complex UI screens using Ext JS Framework.  • Implemented Grails TagLibs to avoid groovy code in GSP pages.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by angular.  • Used groovy and spring boot to collecting the data from users and packaged the data as json distributed to number of applications.  • Developing Web Application in Groovy/Grails with Mongo DB as a data stores using the IntelliJ Idea IDE with the latest Grails SDK, Java.  • Developed Agile processes using Groovy, JUnit to use continuous integration.  • Used Redux SAGA for API call effect which is a way to get data from any synchronous function.  • Developed front-end applications using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular JS, Node JS, Backbone JS, Require JS, Morris JS, Flot JS and MVC frameworks.  • Converted wireframes into comps by using Adobe Fireworks CS3.  • Implemented AJAX calls with Ext JS and handled request and responses for various modules.  • Created Typescript controllers for the different pages in the views using Typescript.  • Data was bound to the components with MVVM using Kendo and Vue.JS, and was retrieved, created, updated, & deleted using REST.  • Built web application using Vue.js and Firebase.  • Used JavaScript frameworks such as JQuery, Dojo, Ext JS, CSS preprocessors such as LESS or SASS.  • Created React/Redux UIs to enable new customer workflows  • Used Reactive Extensions for JavaScript (RxJS) is a set of libraries for composing asynchronous and event-based programs.  • Resolution of WordPress technical issues  • AMPPS/XAMPP for Localhost WordPress Development  • Worked on RESTful Web services using React and Redux Stack.  • Designed GraphQL to build client applications by providing an intuitive and flexible syntax and system for describing their data requirements and interactions.  • Providing a responsive, AJAX-driven design using JavaScript libraries such as, backbone.js, Node.js AngularJS and Bootstrap.js  • Used various Redux middlewares like Thunk and Saga for asynchronous dispatch of actions to Reducers to update the Application state.  • Used React-Router to turn application into SPA.  • Displayed proficiency in React.js, Redux, MongoDB, and CSS by developing and seeing through to deployment version Alpha of a cross-platform mobile application.  • Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, Node.JS, ExtJS, ReactJS, AngularJS, knockout JS, Wire-framing, HTML5.  • Interacted with DB sharding, Redis, Jenkins, SOLR, GraphQL, Grafana, Click Tracking for analytics. Learned code standards.  • Designed SPA (Single page applications) in Flux architecture using React.js.  • Created the Application using React.JS and Node.js libraries NPM, gulp directories to generate desired view and flux to root the URL's properly.  • Developed the iOS app using React-Native and Redux.  • Implemented second level cache and query level cache in Hibernate using EHcache plug-in.  • Used JSON for data exchange between application modules along with XML.  • Built multiple asynchronous service calls using RXJS (Reactive Extensions) such as Observables, Behavior Subject and some of its operators.  • Implemented Spring ORM wiring with Hibernate provided access to Oracle RDBMS  • Create new interfaces using java, maven/ant, spring mvc / struts, or hibernate based on provided requirements XSD/DDF's  • Converted grunt build tasks to gulp to decrease build times in an angular node project.  • Created a library of visual components using Highcharts, D3, and jQuery for reporting results.  • Developed the UI pages using HTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, ANGULAR.JS, and D3.JS.  • Develop application using Ember, AngularJS, Bootstrap, RequireJS.  • Implemented UI angular bootstrap for faster and easier web development  • Developed frontend application using React.js, Express.js and Knockout. Js.  • Create web service component using REST, SOAP, WSDL, XML to interact with the middleware  • Wrote test cases using JUnit testing framework and configured applications on Weblogic Server.  • Developed bug management system for internal usage, using MySQL, Bootstrap, Backbone.js  • JUnit testing of Java classes to populate screens of online tax exemption forms which updated Oracle database under WebLogic web services.  • Designed and implemented the web application in Ruby on Rails, Node.js, HTML5 and JQuery from initial concept development to beta launch.  • Build a new CRM application Using - Jhipster, Spring Boot, Angular.JS  • Usage of version control repository SVN (Subversion by apache) and JIRA  • Worked with Oracle RDBMS for writing complex queries and PL/SQL, SQL for Stored Procedures, Triggers and Events, for generating some important responses needed by the application  • Developed Angular-JS unit test cases using Jasmine and Karma.  • Co-developed a new tool on the Express nodeJS/backBone.js MVC platform that allows marketers to insert dynamic content in email sends based on location and temporal factors  • Developed framework using Java, BIRT Runtime, iText, MySQL and web server technologies  Environment:JavaScript, CSS, Html5, NodeJS, AngularJS, Bootstrap.Js, ReactJS, Backbone.Js, Jquery, Spring, Hibernate, DB, CRUD, PL/SQL, Mongodb, Soap, WebServices, Eclipse, Websphere Portal, Websphere Studio Application Developer WSAD, SUBVERSION SVN, JUnit, Jasimine, Scrum, UML, MAVEN, Xml, JIRA. Sr UI Developer Heartland Express - Washington, DC October 2014 to September 2015 Responsibilities:    • Developed GUI screens for XTT & LD application using JSP, HTML and CSS.  • Development UI modules using HTML, JSP, JavaScript and CSS.  • Wrote JavaScript functions to get Dynamic data and Client side validation. Developed a fully functional prototype application using JavaScript (jQuery and Backbone.js) and Bootstrap, connecting to a REST-ful service on a different domain.  • Used JQuery to make the frontend components interact with the Javascript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Implemented a Node.js server to manage authentication.  • Created Node.js middleware application server to encapsulate modern JS widget framework Worked with JSON objects and JavaScript and JQuery intensively to create interactive web pages.  • Implemented web based front-end using HTML, CSS, JQuery, and AngularJS  • Involved in developing the UI panels using JSF, XHTML, CSS, DOJO and JQuery.  • Set up the deployment environment on Web Logic Developed system preferences UI screens using JSP and HTML.  • Develop dynamic features for a healthcare application supporting thousands of international users. Constructed with CoffeeScript and React.  • Developed functioning proof-of-concepts and production quality interfaces. Worked on products such as InVision, Sketch, Balsamiq, InDesign, and Photoshop (among others) to produce wireframes, prototypes and other specification documents.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using AJAX, JavaScript, React and Redux  • Developed web Components using JSP, Servlets and Server side components using EJB under J2EE Environment.  • Worked on developing CRUD applications using MERN stack (MongoDB, Express, ReactJS and NodeJS) and REST based API.  • Rich UI development experience and well versed in client side technologies like AngularJS, jQuery, BackBone.js, Google Widget Toolkit, Sencha UI  • Worked in Java, J2EE, XSL, XML, Oracle, DB2, Struts, spring, Hibernate, REST Web services, Model driven architecture and software configuration management tools.  • Developed HTML, Swing and JSP pages for user interaction and data presentation.  • Worked on Reactive Extensions (RXJS) Framework while handling with asynchronous stock price data.  • Created a Rich Single Page Application using HTML, CSS, Angularjs, JQuery and REST Services  • Designed and implemented UI layer using JSP, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, JSON, XML, XHTML, XSL, XSLT, XSL-FO and business logic using Servlets, JSP, EJBs and J2EE framework.  • Creating React.js / Flux / Redux front-end UI for Ad Rules / Cerebro application  • Used Backbonejs, Node.js, Bootstrap and other javascript libraries to create intuitive and rich Single Page Applications.  • Used JQuery JavaScript libraries for providing richer user interface and facilitates asynchronous request invocations using AJAX.  • Developed Dash-Board to monitor and report Cache Coherence Servers.  • Integrate the ExtJs/Sencha framework with Oracle BPM.  • Prepared statements are used for communication Sql database  • Involved in developing custom taglibs, JSP, EJB's, Portlets and DB2 - stored procedures.  • Involved in Requirement analysis, design and Implementation applying the Water fall model.  • Wrote Servlets programming and JSP scripting for the communication between web browser and server.  • Integrate the Oracle BPM with the Spring Framework in the enterprise layer.  • Involved in packaging, deployment and upgrade of different modules of SAS on JBoss App Server. VB code Analysis and Sybase store procedure converted into SQL    Environment: HTML, CSS, Javascript, Ajax, JSON, JQuery, MySQL, TOAD, SQL, DB2, Apache Axis, WSDL, Netbeans, JBOSS, Mercurial, Coherence, ClearCase, Selenium, Water Fall Model, UML, JSP, Servlet, Ant, XML, Jira, Swing, Cognos. Sr Java UI Developer Well Care - Reston, VA April 2013 to September 2014 Responsibilities:  • Gathered and analyzed the requirements and converted them into user requirement specifications for the designers and developers to understand them as per their perspective.  • Strictly followed Web 2.0 design features such as simplicity, fewer columns, separate top sections, fonts, simple navigation, logos, gradients, reflections and more.  • Developed the User Interactive web pages in a professional manner with using web technologies like HTML5, XHTML, and CSS3 as per company's standards.  • Extensively involved in redesigning the entire site with CSS styles for consistent look and feel across all browsers and all pages.  • Developed cross-browser/platform HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript to match design specs for complex page layouts while adhering to code standards  • Worked on Web/User Interface development using AJAX, HTML5, XHTML, DHTML, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Created UI templates for final look and feel using HTML5, Fireworks, AXURE, Flash, Dreamweaver and Photoshop.  • Used advanced level of HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3 and pure CSS layouts (table less layout)  • Developed a core component of Analytics withNode.js, and Socket Stream.  • Developed UI components for email and link sharing of documents and files for a Content Management System using Require.js, Backbone.js and jQuery.  • Designed and Developed JavaScript frame work which is wrapper on top of jQuery frame work and AJAX based UI frame work for UI Configuration widgets.  • Used Twitter Bootstrap and Responsive Web Design to develop complex page layouts including various sections such as headers, footers, left side bars, content area and marketing area.  • Created and developed the web-page layout and positioned/developed design elements, using Dreamweaver, HTML and Adobe Photoshop.  • Designed / Developed Ajax Driven Web based application using JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, JSPs and Servlets.  • Developed different jQuery component in MVC micro architecture framework which internally use various design pattern such as singleton, command, delegate, etc.  • Created Dynamic Wireframes, HTMLWireframes, Dynamic Screenshots and Sitemaps.  • Used detailed Wireframes and developed Mock-up designs as per the requirements of Business.  • Designed and developed custom jQuery components for the front end client side validations.  • Worked on integrating jQuery API's with MVC pattern.  • Used AJAX frameworks like jQuery, JSON to develop rich GUIs and also involved in performance tuning the website.  Used JavaScript DOM manipulation and JavaScript event to generate the data result in UI.  • Involved in Dynamic form generation, Auto completion of forms, and user-validation functionalities using AJAX.  Environment: Agile, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript, DHTML, XHTML, XML, JMS, JSON, Ajax, Backbone.js, Require.js, Responsive Design, Bootstrap, Dreamweaver, JSP, JSTL, SOAP, DOM, MVC, SVN, Linux. Lead UI Developer Persistent System Ltd - Jersey City, NJ May 2011 to March 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in User sessions, gathering requirements and developing a web application using agile methodology.  • Analyzed, designed and developed the system to meet the requirements of business users.  Participated in the design review of the application to come up with UI and provide best possible recommendations for the application from UI standpoint.  • Extensively involved in front end screens using Java, HTML5, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, node.js, CSS and Ajax.  • Implemented In-Life Application to support Tech Mobile App it is a web app that will pull tickets from TechXcel and update the ticket appropriately.  • Developed HTML prototypes and UI/UX deliverables, such as wireframes, flowcharts, screen mockups, and interface design specifications  • Everything was designed to fit into the tiny screen on iPhone or iPod/iPad so it is really easy to read and understand. That helps to Create TechXcel.  • Developed all the UI pages using extensive markup and scripting languages (HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and CSS)  • Implemented XML parsing and JSON parsing for data handling on different application.  • Extensively used jQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application.  • For Responsive Web design used Bootstrap to build grids, layouts and components. Used Bootstrap components like dropdown menus, navigation bar, alerts, and labels.  • Created Utility API's for AJAX calls using JavaScript XMLHTTP Objects.  • Used AJAX for implementing dynamic Webpages where the content was fetched via API calls and updated the DOM (JSON Parsing)  • Good in developing Dynamic JQuery grids and Call Web Services from the study design using MVC Framework.  Environment HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, JSP, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON, XML, MYSQL, SVN, Sublime Text2, Adobe Photoshop, M.S Windows's 7/Vista/XP, UNIX, LINUX. Java Developer Lucent Technologies - Jersey City, NJ November 2009 to April 2011 Responsibilities:  • Involved in deploying systems on Amazon Web Services Infrastructure services EC2, S3.  • Analyzed business requirements, participated in technical design, development and testing of various modules assigned.  • Worked on Design, UI, wire-framing, HTML, CSS, jQuery, JSP, accessibility, and optimization.  • Translated designs and style guides into functional user interfaces, ensuring cross browser compatibility, performance and robustness.  • Utilized various jQuery plugins to build Rich Internet Application (RIA) to make it look more intuitive.  • Worked with full UI control of HTML/CSS, maintaining code and cleanliness.  • Created some prototype to implement some of the latest features of HTML and CSS.  • Worked with back end developers to implement AJAX and dynamic HTML functionality in jQuery.  • Maximized page load by analyzing content and making adjustments to the code (by following optimization standards)  • Worked with complete redesigns of a daily events website and focused on improving readability, utility, and overall UX.  • Worked closely with QA team to understand the reported defects and fix them.    Environment: jQuery, XML, JSP, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, AJAX, Image Optimizer, Eclipse, Windows XP.