Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - Cerner Corporation Kansas City, MO, MO, MO, MO • Over 8 years of experience in IT industry with exposure to all the stages in software development life cycle (SLDC) including requirements gathering, software design, development and testing/support.  • Working knowledge and experience in multi-tiered distributed environment with strong technical expertise, business experience, and communication skills to drive high-impact business outcomes through data-driven innovations and decisions.  • Extensive experience in Front-End UI technologies like CSS3, HTML5, jQuery and Bootstrap in developing dynamic and responsive web pages.  • Good understanding in implementing the features of ES6 like arrows, modules, promises and enhanced object literals.  • Experience in application of MVC frameworks such as Angular 4.0 and MVVM client-side JavaScript frameworks Backbone Js, and Ember JS, create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.  • Good amount of hands on experience in developing server-side JavaScript frameworks using Node JS (Hapi JS, Express JS) to build event driven, non-blocking i/o model web applications.  • Good knowledge with features of Angular 4.0 such as dependency injection, modules, directives and routing.  • Experienced in working with Redux or Flux architecture by using React.  • Experienced in developing applications using React JS, jQuery for view rendering and implementing React JS with Redux and Flux patterns to attain MVC functionality.  • Experienced in MEAN stack development applications using MongoDB, Express.JS, Angular & Node.js  • Hands on experience in developing Single Page Applications (SPA) using Angular JS.  • Used NPM (Node Package Manager) to manage the modules and used it to install useful tools such as Grunt, Gulp, Groovy.  • Strong experience in unit testing tools of JavaScript framework like Jasmine, Karma and Protractor for Angular, Mocha and Chai for React JS.  • Strong programming skills in designing and implementation of multi-tiered applications using web-based technologies like Spring MVC, Spring Boot and Spring Cloud.  • Good understanding of using Spring Cloud for microservices deployment and auto configurations like Eureka (Service Discovery), Hystrix (Circuit Breaker), Netflix Zuul (Intelligent Routing), Cluster state (Apache Kafka) and Monitoring and centralized log analyses ELK stack (Elasticsearch, Logstash, and Kibana).  • Worked extensively with JAVA 8 features like Stream API, Time API, Functional Interfaces Multithreading, Transaction Management, Exception Handling, Collection API.  • Extensive experience with Core Java , Multithreading, Transaction Management, Exception Handling and Collections.  • Worked with Microservices using J2EE Web Services based on Spring Boot and created dynamic documentation of RESTful endpoints using Swagger API.  • Experienced in design and development of Service Oriented Architecture(SOA) Web Services using JAX-WS (SOAP) with Apache-Cxf framework and JAX-RS (REST) with Jersey framework.  • Experience in developing the application services utilizing the Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF) platform as a service for quick builds of RESTful API's.  • Experienced in developing MVC monolithic frameworks such as Struts 1.x/2.x, JSF and Spring 3.1.  • Hands on experience in using Spring Data JPA that helped in creating automatic Data Access Objects (DAOs) at the compile time.  • Solid Experience with ORM frameworks such as Hibernate, Spring JPA and Ibatis, Spring Data and Spring JDBC.  • Extensively used Hibernate mappings, HQL, EHCache, Query, Lazy loading Transactions and Locking. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer Cerner Corporation - Kansas City, MO January 2017 to Present Project: Cerner smarter are setting a new trajectory for the way health care is delivered, I worked as a full stack java developer to create web application for clinical and scientific education to investigators and staff, monitoring of investigator-sponsored trials in region (USA)    Responsibilities:  • Analyzed the business requirements of the project by studying the Business Requirement Specification document.  • Worked with Data Governance, Data quality, Data architect to design various models and processes.  • Used a Microservice architecture, designed and developed RESTFUL web services using Spring Boot framework.  • Deployed Spring Boot based microservices Docker container using Amazon EC2 container services.  • Used Node.js for deploying POC and used for Bower and other development automation tasks.  • Used Hapi.js which is fast, assertive, essential and moderate web framework of Node.js that helps manage a server and routes.  • Integrated Node.js with Hapi.js and communicated with Mongodb for CRUD operations on the data repository.  • The back-end use of Node.js, Hapi.js, MongoDB and Mongoose the complete MERN Stack to provide RESTful API.  • Implemented various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from Node Package Manager (NPM) and Flux library.  • Developed dynamic and responsive web pages to user interface screens using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Created reusable components and used across various modules using Angular custom libraries.  • Developed a dashboard based on Ajax calls with Business customers count, Flags, Real-time graphs for analytical reporting using Node.js.  • Worked in using React JS Components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Extensively worked in writing minimal code in building re-usable forms with their validations using REACT with Flux Architecture.  • Extensively used ES6 to create components in REACT.  • Enhanced the customer search experience by developing searchable components with Splunk.  • Performed CRUD operations like Create, Update, Insert and Delete data in Mongodb.  • Worked on Mongodb database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, replication and schema design.  • Configured mongo-connector to create a pipeline from the MongoDB cluster to keep synchronize with the multiple sources like Elastic Search or another MongoDB cluster.  • Used Docker Engine and Docker Machine environment, to deploy the micro services-oriented environments for scalable application.  • Deployed the Docker image of services building Docker file and build a continuous delivery pipeline for containers using AWS Code and Amazon ECS.  • Designed and deployed a multitude application utilizing almost all the AWS stack which Includes EC2, MongoDB, Docker, Kubernetes Orchestration container focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling.  • Worked on AWS Cloud Front, S3 and Lambda Web Services to integrate the server side and client-side code.  • Configured AWS EC2 instances, domain mapping via Route53.  • Worked with app developers during API development, to implement a secure server by using OAuth2 between server and client applications.  • Used Maven and Jenkins to automate the construct and convey process and SVN was utilized for project administration and version management.  • Creating customized business reports and sharing insights to the management.  ? Scheduled workflow runs and helped the support team in analysis of the job failure and provided the relevant solution.    Environment: Java, AWS EC2, Docker, Spring Boot, Spring Web MVC, Spring REST, Spring JPA, Spring Batch, UML, XML, XHTML, HTML5, CSS3, ReactJS, XSL, Oracle, SQL Developer, jQuery, JUnit, REST, AngularJS, Flux, Hibernate, Mongo DB, Hapi JS, AWS ECS, EC2, ES6, Maven, Jenkins. Full Stack Java Developer Liberty Mutual Insurance - Portsmouth, NH December 2015 to December 2016 Project: Liberty Mutual Insurance, is an American diversified global insurer and the fourth-largest property and casualty insurer in the United States which offers a wide range of insurance products and services. As a part of project is to rebuild the Instant Incentives system to be compatible with the go-forward combined Personal Insurance policy platform by retaining all current capabilities and implementing new User Interface design improving agent experience.    Responsibilities:  ? Interaction with Business Analyst, SMEs and other Data Architects to understand Business needs and functionality for project solution.  ? Designed and Developed UI for Customer Service Modules and Reports using Angular4, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, and jQuery.  ? Worked with Angular CLI and Typescript in Angular 4 to create Controllers and Angular components for the Web Pages.  ? Developed pages using Angular4.0 directives, expressions, routing capabilities for bookmarking, filters, validations and Angular UI components such as grid, buttons, carousels, date pickers, modal dialogs and other input components.  ? Have worked with reactive forms, template driven forms and written pipes in Angular 4 to transform the data according to the customer's requirement.  ? Created custom directives in Angular 4 for reusable components like multi-field form elements and background file uploads.  ? Proficient in creating services with Angular 4 injectable property, as to make the service available for dependency injection when creating components.  ? Skilled in leading frameworks as React JS to build high-quality, scalable and reusable components and Front-end solution.  ? The front-end use HTML5, CSS3, React JS, jQuery and Bootstrap to build a web app that communicate with back-end via RESTful API.  ? Implemented AJAX call from Angular JS at client to Express JS at Node JS server.  ? Used Express JS which is fast, assertive, essential and moderate web framework of Node.js that helps manage a server and routes.  ? Worked with Express JS which gives MVC Structure to the Node JS.  ? Responsible for implementing UI mockups, integrating third party React libraries, and handling/creating Redux store data.  ? Worked with Gulp, Node Packet Manager and used React JS library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application.  ? Worked on generating the verification hash code using Node JS and added user validations and user permissions by using Node JS.  ? Worked with JAVA 8 features like Stream API, Time API, Functional Interfaces Multithreading, Transaction Management, Exception Handling, Collection API.  ? Experience in integrating the internal security model into new projects with Spring Batch, Spring Boot, Pivotal Cloud Foundry and Netflix Eureka.  ? Implemented microservices based architecture using Spring Boot interacting through REST API.  ? Worked with Spring Cloud and Netflix OSS-Eureka for service registration and discovery.  ? Worked with Netflix Zuul Api gateway for Authentication and hystrix circuit breaker for fault tolerance.  ? Implemented the various layers of the application using Spring Framework modules such as Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring MVC and Spring ORM.  ? Deployed the with Zero Down Deployment using Kubernetes orchestration service application  ? Proficient in deploying and configuring ELK stack Elastic search, Log Stash and Kibana for log analytics.  ? Experience in developing the application services utilizing the Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF) platform as a service for quick builds of RESTful API's.  ? Built backend REST API and OAuth 2.0 with Node.JS, Express.JS.  ? Used Kibana to build data visualizations to monitor file server load, web server speeds and data processing.  ? Collaborate the data mapping document from source to target for the source data.  ? Used Apache Kafka (Message Queues) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of vital information between multiple business applications.  ? Worked on NoSQL database like Cassandra to store key values, for data analytics which is used as a Database.  ? Developed stored procedures and triggers using PL/SQL to calculate and update the tables to implement business logic using Oracle database.  ? Good Knowledge in documentation of REST APIs using Swagger and WADL.  ? Tested the front-end application using Jasmine and Karma testing frameworks.  ? Worked in short deadlines and completed the deliverables ahead of time with minimal defects.  ? Participate in daily SCRUM meetings and assisted to clarify any details.  ? Involved in business process modeling using UML.  ? Expertise in using of JIRA to track issues and communicate with other teams at various environments  ? Manage development & enhancement of Project Change Request from client.  ? Performed code reviews and provide guidelines for best practices of software management, Coding Standards and Code Commenting for better understandability.    Environment: AWS, HTML 5, CSS 3, Spring Boot, Spring Web MVC, Spring REST, Spring JPA, Spring Batch, React JS, D3.JS, Angular JS, Node JS, Express JS, Gulp, Bower, Jasmine, Karma, EJS, AJAX, Bootstrap, RESTful web services, JIRA, JavaScript, Visual Studio Code, GIT, Jenkins Java Developer BBVA Compass - Plano, TX February 2015 to December 2015 Project: BBVA Compass Banking is one of the lists of largest banks in the United States. As part of project my role is to develop web applications to meet the mortgage needs of client, loan deposits, Multi Loan deposits and Teller Referral.  Responsibilities:  • Developed RESTful Services and Web Service Clients (JAX-RS) with data representation in different formats such as XML and JSON.  • Implemented WADL configuration and API documentation for the understanding of Rest based Web services  • Use Design patterns to develop robust applications with optimal functionality.  • Responsible for creating RESTFUL Web Services to serve data to the front-end application in JSON format.  • Used JAX-RS plus jersey implementation for Restful web services.  • JAX-RS API generic and pluggable interface called Message Body Writer for doing the custom marshalling.  • Worked with Legacy Web Services systems where SOAP (AXIS-2) is migrated and implemented using REST (Jersey extending the JAX-RS)  • Accessed Restful resources with HTTP protocol, the URL of the resource serve as the resource as the resource identifier and GET, PUT, DELETE, POST and HEAD are the standard operations.  • Worked with UI developers in building the Web platform using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Used Ajax, JSON with jQuery for request data and response processing.  • Worked with AJAX for implementing dynamic webpage's where the content was fetched via API calls.  • Used AJAX and custom HTML helper Classes to implement asynchronous calls to the server to update the changes.  • Used backbone.js as Model, Widgets as Controller and jQuery template as View.  • Developed a set of the application functionality using CRUD (Create, read, update, delete) features of Backbone.js.  • Used Backbone.js to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients.  • JIRA tool for project management used in the application to tack bugs, issues and project management functions.  • Implemented logging using log4j for logging purpose of the projects as well as print debugging, warning on the server console.  • Performed Installation, Configuration and Maintenance of production Cloud Environments such as Tomcat, Apache.  • Set up Jenkins server and build jobs to provide continuous automated builds based on polling the Git.  • Developed the ANT scripts for preparing WAR files used to deploy J2EE components.  • Tested the response format of REST services in XML, and JSON.  • Used SQL in constructing views, indexes, stored procedures relational database models.  • Participate in daily SCRUM meetings and assisted to clarify any details.  • Preparing and executing Unit test cases.  • Generate weekly and monthly asset inventory reports.    Environment: Java J2EE, JSP, Backbone.JS, Spring MVC, Spring, Workflows, SQL, HTML, UML, jQuery, CSS, XML, Ajax, Bootstrap, SOAP, REST, Soap UI, Windows, JSON, log4j, ANT, JIRA, Tomcat, Jersey, WADL, JAR-RS, Tomcat, Apache. Java Developer Assurant Employee Benefits - Kansas City, MO November 2013 to February 2015 Project: Assurant, Inc. is a provider of specialty insurance products in the U.S. and select worldwide markets. The company operates its business through four business Assurant Employee Benefits, Assurant Health, Assurant Solutions and Assurant Specialty Property. Currently Assurant Employee Benefits had taken over by Sun Life Finical. As part of project worked on distribute of monthly capitation checks, special agreements, and special payments to participating dental providers  Responsibilities:  ? Worked on UI Development by using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, jQuery and JavaScript.  ? Worked on Angular expressions and built-in directives to render functionality to the UI.  ? Implemented various AngularJS filters against data sets to filter and formatted data currency, strings rendered in the UI.  ? Effectively used Angular Directives, filters, declarative templates, service providers and context aware communication.  ? Used Angular JS to create views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data with server as a Single Page Applications.  ? Implemented AngularJS controllers to update entity models.  ? Used custom AngularJS Filters to provide better search experience.  ? Architected services to align with business objectives and fit into overall SOA driven program  ? Implemented the logging framework in the SOA environment.  ? Developed SOAP based web services using Apache CXF and test them using SoapUI.  ? Created Remote interfaces using SOAP web services for accessing the services across multiple enterprise applications using JAX-WS.  ? Used SOA, UDDI lookups and Web Services Description Language (WSDL) using SOAP protocol.  ? Exposed the Web Services to the client applications by sharing the WSDL.  ? Converted the entire event flow as SOA based architecture and used RabbitMQ as queues.  ? Integrated testing methods implemented by using Karma and Jasmine.  ? Worked with Junit, Mockito unit test framework to write unit tests for JavaScript code.  ? Created automated test scripts for integration testing using Selenium.  ? Used ANT to deploy application in IBM WebSphere in UNIX environment IBM AIX. Tested the application after making the necessary configuration.  ? Provided daily support for production, stage and testing environments for WebSphere MQ operations and problem determination.  ? Used Tortoise SVN as the version control system.  ? JIRA tool for project management used in the application to tack bugs, issues and project management functions.  ? Document data quality and traceability documents for each source interface.  ? Involved in designing and implementation of the entire system which serves the requirements for sampling and grading of workflow.    Environment: Angular, Node JS, SOA Architecture, WebSphere MQ, Rabbit MQ, SOAP web service, Apache Cxf, JPA, Spring Security, JMS, JSP, JavaScript, Bootstrap, SVN, Auth0, Selenium, JavaScript, XML, HTML, WSDL, Junit, Mockito. Full Stack Java Developer HDFC Bank - Mumbai, Maharashtra September 2012 to October 2013 Project: HDFC Bank Limited is an Indian banking and financial services company providing many products and services, which includes Wholesale banking, Retail banking, Personal loans and Credit Cards. My role in this project is to automate existing Bank Account Application reconciliation process where Day ETLs Jobs uploads the New Account Opening Data into the system and Application users validate the Account Data against the forms and reconcile the account. Its Open Source based J2EE Platform SOA Architecture.  Responsibilities:  • Developed user interface for procurement management module using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Applied Façade design pattern to hide the complexities of the system and provide a simpler interface to the client.  • Successfully Implemented Spring MVC application using Maven as build management tool,  • Understanding the requirements, building functional documents, planning and estimating tasks and implementation of the tasks on time.  • Extensively involved in the development of back-end logic or data access logic to create the object relational mapping using Hibernate.  • Worked on Hibernate ORM framework used to interact with database through Hibernate query language (HQL)  • Implemented Spring Batch for processing large volumes of records, including logging/tracing, transaction management, job processing statistics, job restart, skip, and resource management in the application using Quartz scheduler.  • Using Hibernate ORM framework with Spring framework for data persistence and transaction  • Meet daily with the agile/scrum team to share knowledge and coordinate tasks.  • Worked on GIT to push and pull daily updates.  • Implemented Restful web services to communicate with external systems.  • Responsible for analysis, testing and maintenance of the project.  • Involved in front-end development using AngularJS Framework.  • Designed and developed the persistence layer using Hibernate persistent objects.  • Worked on Spring MVC to decouple business logic and view components.  • Implemented MVC architecture using Inversion of Control and Dependency Injection.  • Worked on GIT as a version controlling tool for managing the module development.  • Using Maven as a Building Tool in the project.  • Developed UML diagrams (class, activity, and sequence diagrams) using Star UML.  • Utilized Jasper to produce and integrate required reports.  • Extensively applied agile scrum methodology throughout the project life time.  • Developed conceptual and technical design using Object-Oriented techniques.  • Written SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers and data connectivity and data integration.  • Worked with onsite-team to develop layout, color scheme for their website and implemented it into a final interface design with the HTML/CSS and JavaScript.  • Good at designing Design Documents, Unit Test Case, Integration Test Case, Integration Test Plan documents and estimating the assigning tasks.  • Highly organized with the ability to prioritize workload, manage multiple projects and meet project deadlines by following project standards and procedures as per client specifications.    Environment: Java, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Validation, Restful, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, GitHub, Maven and MySQL, Agile, MySQL Server, JSON, Angular JS, stored producers, UML, Jasper, JSP, Java Script, GIT. Java Developer Global Tele Systems - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2010 to August 2012 Project: Global Insurance System is software designed for a group of insurance agents, which supports the maintenance activities of Insurance Policies and their associated company details, their procedures in maintaining various types of policies, with the corresponding details of Policy holders, associated agents involved in the policy maintenance etc. As part of project I was working on application ASOC. The main functionality of ASOC is due date calculation, address validation, access vendor selection and service availability.  Responsibilities:  ? Created web pages according to client's guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Worked on CSS to change the styles to be used in future web layouts and debugging the error issues with CSS.  ? Involved in High Level Design Document (HLD) preparation.  ? Agile methodology is used for development of the application.  ? Designed web pages using HTML and CSS and Implemented functionality in JavaScript.  ? Involved in designing and implementing UI for Self-Service Application using jQuery Ajax framework and widget-based JavaScript programming model.  ? Designed and developed User Interface Web Forms using Face CSS and Adobe Creative Suite  ? Developed user interface using HTML, JavaScript, jQuery and CSS.  ? Used J2EE design patterns like Factory pattern & Singleton Pattern.  ? Involved in bug fixing and resolving issues with the QA and production environment during production support.  ? Responsible for coding SQL Statements and Stored procedures for back end communication using JDBC  ? Worked on UML diagrams like Class Diagram, Sequence Diagram required for implementing the production flow.  ? Front-end validations are done using JavaScript.  ? Developed HTML prototypes and ready XHTML documents with CSS style sheets.  ? Created Stored Procedure, Trigger for database access and events.  ? Experience in installing, configuring and deploying application on WebLogic Server.  ? Used SQL and PL/SQL queries to perform database operations on WebSphere.  ? Used ANT to build, run and create JARs and WAR files among other uses.  ? Implemented JDBC for database connectivity with MySQL Server.  ? Participated in Java training sessions.  ? Involved in analysis for Reporting framework.  ? Used My Eclipse as an IDE for development.  ? SVN is used as a tool for version control.  ? Gained more technical skills in application design and development of Application services in real time project environment.    Environment: Java, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, UML, SQL, Stored Procedures, UML, HTML, CSS, JSP, Servlets, Web Services, WSDL, SOAP. Education Bachelor of Technology in Design Patterns Acharya Nagarjuna University Guntur - Guntur, Andhra Pradesh Skills JAVA (8 years), jQuery (8 years), SQL (7 years), UML (7 years), HTML5 (6 years) Additional Information Skills  Java, AWS EC2, Docker, Spring Boot, Spring Web MVC, Spring REST, Spring JPA, Spring Batch, UML, XML, XHTML, HTML5, CSS3, ReactJS, XSL, Oracle, SQL Developer, jQuery, JUnit, REST, AngularJS, Flux, Hibernate, Mongo DB, Hapi JS, AWS ECS, EC2, ES6, Maven, Jenkins. (8 years)