Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Farmers Insurance New York, NY, NY Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Farmers Insurance - Cleveland, OH July 2017 to Present Description: The application provides comprehensive information concerning various types of Insurance coverage offered by Farmers Insurance. The website functionality was extended by providing the customers to login and performs online transactions like paying bills online and updating their insurance policy. The website was redesigned to provide customized information for the end users.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including analysis, design, development, and testing of the project.  • Used SpringBoot to create stand-alone spring applications.  • Used Eclipse Integrated Development Environment for coding, debugging and testing the application modules.  • Involved in developing of presentation layer for the application modules using AngularJS/2, XHTML, HTML5, jQuery, AJAX and CSS.  • Designed and developed Microservices business components using SpringBoot.  • Knowledge in creation of Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 2.  • Implemented SpringBoot services in combination with Angular as front end to form a Microservice Oriented application  • AngularJS was used to parse the JSON file using the REST Web services.  • Configured Spring based Microservices and Spring Boot  • Used Object/Relational mapping tool Hibernate and JPA to achieve object to database table persistency.  • Developed Hibernate POJO Classes, Hibernate Configuration file and Hibernate Mapping files.  • Configured Swagger-UI registered Micro service with Eureka server to monitor service health check from Spring Boot admin console.  • Analyze and fix issues related to REST Web services and Application responses.  • Implemented the back-end services using SpringBoot.  • Worked on developing REST Services to expose the processed data as a service.  • Experience in working with NoSQL, Mongo DB, and Apache Cassandra.  • Implemented Spring Security and Spring transactions in the applications.  • Worked on Swagger, REST with JSON to test data, and Postman for testing the Web Services and Documentation of the Web API.  • Experienced on spring framework applications like Spring Core, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring Batch, Spring Security and SpringBoot and did integration to Micro services into existing system architecture.  • Involved in the configuration of Spring Framework and Hibernate mapping tool.  • Configured MQ Queues and Topics to publish messages to topics and consume published messages.  • Worked with Docker to deploy Micro-services in modern containers to increase Isolation.  • Experience with Spring Ribbon and Kafka broker service to handle heavy traffic.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection and used Apache Camel to integrate Spring framework.  • Developed communication between different applications using MQ Series (JMS) and Spring Integration.  • Configured and monitored numerous Cassandras, NoSQL instances  • Deployment of micro services via AWS Beanstalk and Lambda  • Worked on DAO's to pull the data from the source Databases and converted into JSON formats and then published into Kafka Streams.  • Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins and GitHub and AWS AMI's.  • Extensively followed Test Driven Development to implement application business logic, work flow process and integration of application modules.  • Followed Pair Programming to analysis, design, development, Integration, Testing and deploy the applications.  • Used XML, XSD, XPath and JAXB for message transformations and mappings.  • Extensively followed agile Scrum methodology and XP to implement the application modules.  • Configured and used Hudson, Jenkins tools for continues integration and build and deploy the applications.  • Used Maven for building and deploying the web application into WebSphere and configuring the dependency plug-ins and resources.  • Wrote JUnit test cases for each line of the application code and performed validation.    Environment: Java/J2ee, JSP, SpringBoot, Hibernate, SOAP, REST, JAX-RS, JMS, MQ Series, SQL, PL/SQL, JAXB, XML, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, AngularJS, Eclipse, JBoss, Maven, Nexus, AWS, DB2, Kafka, Cassandra, Micro Services, Autosys, UML, Agile, XP, Jenkins, GitHub, Stash, JIRA, Junit, Log4j, SOAPUI, Unix shell Scripting. Sr. Java Developer JetBlue - New York, NY October 2016 to June 2017 Description: JetBlue Airways Corporation, stylized as jetBlue, is an American low-cost airline headquartered in New York City. The application is used by airlines customers and members to book the tickets, check travel deals, enroll to business programs, and find vacation packages.  Responsibilities:  • Implemented business layer using Core java, Spring Beans using dependency injection, Spring annotations.  • Implemented Micro Services using Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Spring Microservices and enabled discovery using Netflix Eureka Server.  • Used S3 buckets to manage document management and RDS to host database.  • Experience with NoSQL databases like Cassandra and Mongo DB.  • Created customized AMIs based on already existing AWS EC2 instances by using create image functionality, hence using this snapshot for disaster recovery.  • Optimized the full text search function by connecting to NoSQL DB like MongoDB and Elastic search.  • Implemented MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes and replication.  • Used Rabbit MQ queues for implementation of multi-threaded synchronization processes using JMS queues for consumption requests.  • Used Micro service architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST and MQ and leveraging AWS to build, test and deploy micro services.  • Involved in design and development of UI component, using frameworks AngularJS, JavaScript, HTML, CSS and Bootstrap.  • Experienced in using Kafka as a distributed publisher-subscriber messaging system.  • Involved in implementation of enterprise integration with Web Services and Legacy Systems using SOAP, and REST and added security to SOAP through WS Security.  • Experience working in Kafka and Camel.  • Used Spring Security for Authentication and authorization extensively.  • Set up Jenkins server and build jobs to provide automated builds based on polling the GIT source control system.  • Consumed REST based micro services with Rest Template based on RESTful APIs.  • Used Docker for possible to production to the development environment to fast possible for interactive use.  • Responsible for Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) process implementation using Jenkins along with LINUX Shell scripts to automate routine jobs.  • Created web services using Spring @Rest Controller to return JSON to the frontend.  • Developed server-side services using Java, Spring, Web Services (SOAP, RESTful, WSDL, JAXB, JAX-RPC)  • Used SOAP UI tool for testing web services connectivity.  • Used MAVEN building tool for creating EAR file to be deployed in the application servers, it is also used for Dependency management of code in the application.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking issue tracking and project management.  • Involved in writing the test cases for the application using JUnit.  • Used GIT as source control management giving a huge speed advantage on centralized systems that must communicate with a server.  • Implemented Log4j tool to log the entire application.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Servlet/filters, JSP, JSTL, Springboot, Microservices, Spring Security, Angular JS, Cassandra, JavaScript, HTML, CSS and Bootstrap, REST, Pivotal Cloud Foundry, AWS, EC2, S3, Netflix Eureka, Rabbit MQ, Kafka, SOAP, RESTful, NoSQL Mongo DB, Elastic Search, STS, MAVEN, JUnit, Jenkins, Log4j, JIRA, Docker, Git. Sr. Java Developer Travel Click, NY January 2016 to September 2016 Description: TravelCLICK is the leading provider in developing hospitality tool kit for various hotels from various countries. This hospitality tool kit contains the ecommerce solutions for the hotels to make reservations in their central booking reservation and to evaluate the each of the booking against all hotels in the market a product is designed called eTRAK application provides Hotel Brands their performance in various sales channels through which their inventory is sold (sales channels on which performance is analyzed in eTRAK are GDS, Voice, Retail (Airline, Merchant, Opaque) & Brand website.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in writing Application workflow both for front-end and backend.  • Created multi-layered application framework using Java, J2EE technologies.  • Developed the RESTful web services, by using Spring Framework and MVC pattern, for Business logic that is reusable and that can be consumed for front-end applications.  • Developed Multithread Application using with Thread Pool and Concurrent Executors.  • Developed Business logic with the help of spring and Data Access was implemented by using Hibernate.  • Handled the security and Authorization by Spring Security and OAuth authentication Protocol.  • Implemented Persistence layer using Hibernate 4.3.x to interact with the MySQL database.  • Involved in developing Server-side EJB components and wrote session beans to perform the business logic.  • Created RFP microservice to provide RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Microservices.  • Designed and prepared custom tags on JSF layer and prepared framework classes for Managed Beans interacting with the Hibernate.  • Used JPA and Hibernate with entity beans for interacting persistence layer for CRUD operations  • Utilized AWS Cloud platform and its features which include EBS, EC2, SNS, RDS, Cloud Watch, Cloud Trail, EMR, Lambda, Cloud Formation, Auto scaling, Cloud Front, S3 and Route 53.  • Worked with UI developers for building a portal for business application using technologies like Java, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap.  • Used Spring MVC components to implement business layer and Spring Boot for Micro-services.  • Involved in upgrade of the present Oracle data model to Cassandra data model.  • Development of database interaction code to JDBC API making extensive use of SQL Query Statements and advanced prepared statement.  • Used SAX and DOM parser for parsing XML documents and XSLT API to handle XML parsing in Object Oriented way.  • Implemented Design patterns like DAO, Singleton, Factory, Delegate, and Front Controller.  • Developed Micro-Services based architecture to enable the application to be deployed on AWS Cloud.  • Implemented complex UI logic using custom-made Custom tags and existing JSF Custom tags and Expression Language in compliance with XHTML standards.  • Collaborated with technical team members to integrate back-end and front-end elements.  • Used Maven for building and managing dependencies of the application.  • Used SVN (Subversion) for version control.    Environment: Java 1.7, JDK, Servlets, JSP, Spring 3.2.6, Struts 2.3.16, HTML5, CSS3, Ajax, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, NodeJS, Cassandra, JDBC, Bootstrap 2.3x, IntelliJ Hibernate 4.2.8, JUnit 4.11, RESTful Web Services. Sr. Java Developer Connexions Loyalty Group - Richmond, VA November 2014 to December 2015 Description: The objective of system is to have a framework in place for the organization, which allows the business users to add new customer configurations, customer product catalog, excluded product details list etc. without depending on the development team.    Responsibilities:  • Followed Scrum Agile methodology for development of the application.  • Involved in analyzing the requirements and participated in discussions with business analysts.  • Involved in developing Hibernate DAO classes, mapping files for persistence layer.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries and Struts Tag Libraries to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Developed the middle tier using EJBs Stateless Session Bean, Java Servlets.  • Developed various helper classes needed following core java multi-threaded programming and Collection classes.  • Implement API Service using Apache Camel.  • Developed cloud native microservices using Spring cloud and Spring Boot.  • Design and develop new database using as relational database management system PostgreSQL.  • Added user validations and user permissions by using the Node.js.  • Involved in writing HQL and SQL Queries for Oracle database.  • Utilized custom logging framework for Mule ESB application.  • Created and compiled XML Schema to generate Java Bean classes.  • Patching the Linux servers on all the environments (Prod, Pre-Prod and Testing) of Customer.  • Written the integration test to execute full systems using the Groovy.  • Prepared automation scripts and developed PostgreSQL database architecture.  • Used Selenium WebDriver to provide more flexibility in automating test cases.  • Created REST Web Services for the management of data using JAX-RS.  • Used Tomcat Application server for live services.  • Configure JIRA to set up a trusted communication between JIRA and Confluence.  • Used Log4j to set up debugging and error information for production support.  • Used Junit for unit testing and Jenkins for automated build and deploy process.  • Involved in bug fixing during the System testing, Joint System testing and User acceptance testing.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, JMS, HTML5, CSS3, Node.js, JavaScript, Java Bean, jQuery, JSP, AJAX, AngularJS, Selenium, Tomcat, PostgreSQL, Spring cloud, Apache Camel, JIRA, Jenkins, ESB, Linux, PL/SQL, ANT, Log4j, Git, Maven, JUnit. Java Developer Selectsys December 2012 to September 2014 Description: Health Care information system is a transaction processing system based on customer Relationship Management system. It is developed to automate the entire process of treatment tracking and based on treatment status It automatically generates health reports, Appointment notifications and Billing letters to client and work orders to concerned crew members.  Responsibilities:  • Analysis, design and development of Application based on J2EE using Spring and Hibernate.  • Hibernate was used for Object Relational mapping with Oracle database.  • Involved in developing the user interface using Struts.  • Worked on the Web Services using SOAP and Restful web services.  • Used SVN configuration management tool for code versioning and release.  • log4j was used for unit testing and as logging frameworks.  • Developed the UI Screens using JSP, JavaScript, HTML and Angular Where we perform the client-side validation.  • Developed the classes for Unit Testing.  • Used Spring MVC (Model View Controller) to handle/intercept the user requests and used various controllers to delegate the request flow to the Backend tier of the application.  • Developed custom tags for User Interface (UI)  • Experienced in using the agile methodology for developing application and Followed Agile Methodologies to implement code and have strong knowledge with development in Agile environment.  • Experience in different Agile methodologies like Test Driven Development, Scrum.    Environment: Java, Spring MVC, Struts, RESTful, JSP, JUnit, Eclipse, MS SQL server, JDBC, Java Script, AngularJS, CSS, HTML, Struts, Hibernate, Visual Source Safe (VSS), PUTTY, Oracle 9i, Agile Scrum Methodology. Associate Java Developer UV Fortune IT Solutions June 2010 to November 2012 Description:  The project was designed to implement a web based front end system which can be used by the employees, managers and higher-level management having specific role permissions for effective processing of day to day business activities in the company like leave management, project management and resource management etc.    Responsibilities:  • Coordinated software system installation and monitor equipment functioning to ensure specifications are met.  • Actively involved in project development and bug fixing for the project. Worked closely with students, helped in the deeper understanding of concepts.  • Involved in requirement analysis and client interaction, responsible for writing hibernate mapping XML Files, HQL.  • Worked closely with business analysts, project managers and project leaders to analyze business requirements.  • Used J2EE design patterns like Factory, Singleton. Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as requirement gathering, modeling, analysis, architecture design and development.  • Worked in a fast-paced environment and meeting all the requirements.  • Created applications involving JSP, JavaScript, jQuery and HTML. Extensively used various collection classes like Array List, Hash Map, Hash Table, and Hash Set.  • Creating technical specifications, coding, unit and system integration testing for the enhancements and conducted reviews with end users.  • Created new database connection for MYSQL.  • Developed the application using Spring MVC Framework by implementing controller and backend service classes.  • Followed Java coding standards while developing the application.    Environment: Eclipse, MySQL Server, JSP, JavaScript, jQuery, Java, C, HTML5 and CSS3. Skills J2EE (8 years), JAVA (8 years), JAVASCRIPT (8 years), JSP (8 years), HTML (5 years) Additional Information Skills  J2EE (8 years), JAVA (8 years), JAVASCRIPT (8 years), JSP (8 years), HTML (5 years)    Technical Summary:    Languages JAVA, C, C++, SQL, and PL/SQL.  Web Technologies HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Angular JS, Angular 2, React.JS, AJAX, XML, XSLT, Java Beans, JMS.  J2EE Technologies Servlets, JSP, JSF, EJB, JMS, JNDI, Web Services, JDBC, SOAP, RMI.  Methodology Agile, Scrum, RUP, TDD, OOAD, SDLC.  Java Script Technology Angular JS, Node.js and React.JS.  App/Web servers Apache Tomcat, Weblogic, Apache camel, WebSphere, JBoss, WAS 5.x, Grunt server.  Applications Frameworks Spring, Spring Boot, Hibernate, Struts, JSF.  Web services SOAP, WSDL, AXIS, JAX-WS, REST, JSON, JAX-RS, JAX-RPC, UDDI.  Databases Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server, DB2, MongoDB, Cassandra.  XML XML, XPATH, XSLT, XML SPY, JAXB, SAX, DOM, JAXP.  Tools ANT, JUNIT, Log4j, JMETER, TOAD, Maven, Rational Rose.  IDEs Eclipse, My Eclipse, NetBeans, InteliJ.    Operating Systems Windows, UNIX, LINUX.