Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Vanguard, American registered investment advisor To make positive contribution as part of your dynamic and well reputed organization at the position where my abilities and technical skills would be appreciated and enhanced. Work Experience Java Developer Vanguard, American registered investment advisor November 2016 to Present This portal allows vanguard users to offer charity to vanguard charitable and directly to the non-profit organizations.    Role Highlights:  Working as a Java developer to streamline Gifting process through development.    Activities include:    • Writing code to consume different Microservices through REST API.  • Writing code for SP calls to consume data from Database.  • Testing the REST calls through POSTMAN tool with required header parameters.  • Working with BA to convert business logic into development.  • Developing the quality code and following the organization's coding standards.  • Making good use of third party APIs and internal APIs which is provided to avoid writing lot of repeated code.  • Investigating production issues and fixing it in timely manner by looking into its criticality.  • Writing Junit test cases with Mockito Framework to unit test the code.  • Helping team members with the business as well as coding issues. Production Support Executive Morgan Stanley, A top US investment bank June 2016 to November 2016 GTRS (Global Transaction Reporting System) is Regulatory reporting system which newly introduced after MIFID2 reporting.  WISE (Warehouse & Integrated Services for the Enterprise) is a large data warehouse for Morgan Stanley. It serves as their Profit and Loss data warehouse and is used as a Decision Support.    Role Highlights: Worked on Operations & Application/Batch Support services, and Maintenance services in Production and non-Production environment.    Activities include:    • Monitoring the Production environment.  • Investigating MQs piling up issues with the help of developers and fix it.  • Investigating user queries regarding trade reporting to DTCC regulator.  • Investigation of Autosys job failures, treadmill services and fixes the failure to provide data to the controllers for reporting.  • Investigating slow and erroneous db call from Appdynamics and reaching out to DBA and developers to report and helping them to fix it.  • Maintaining, configuring and enhancement of Autosys jobs.  • Monitoring and Maintaining of Teradata (Prod and UAT) Health, through Teradata Viewpoint. Education Bachelors in Engineering Rajiv Gandhi Technical University in Computer Science Additional Information • 3.7 years of experience in the field of Information Technology.  • Experienced on working in technologies Java/J2EE, Spring, Spring Boot, RESTful API, Microservices.  • Experienced on developing Microservices with Spring Boot and REST API to make production ready application.  • Experienced on handling production environment and production outages, worked on critical production issues.  • Sound knowledge of UNIX, Autosys and SQL.  • Good exposure to Teradata, DB2 databases.  • Experience in working with agile methodology.    Operating Systems: UNIX and Windows  Database: DB2, Teradata  Languages/Technologies: Java/J2EE, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, RESTful API, Microservices, Junit, Mockito, Unix, SQL.  Tools: Spring Tool Suit (STS), Eclipse, Splunk, Postman, Maven, JIRA, Bamboo, BitBucket, Git, Confluence, PCF manager, Autosys, Teradata SQL Assistant, Teradata View Point, Putty.