Sr. Salesforce Developer /Admin Sr. Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span> /Admin Sr. Salesforce Developer /Admin - Neuberger Berman Manhattan, NY • More than 7 years of Software Development Experience with 4+ years' experience in Salesforce.com.  • Experienced in the complete life cycle of project development (SDLC) including System Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Deployment.  • Mostly worked in Agile environment.  • Extensive experiencein analysis, design and development of Business Applications with Salesforce CRM as the focus area.  • Experience with the Force.com platform, including template solutions like Sales Cloud and Service Cloud  • Worked closely with Business Users in improving their business processes by suggesting the best practices that are possible through Salesforce.com -- the world's first commercial Software as a Service (SAAS) application running in Cloud Computing Environment.  • Hands on experience in Salesforce.com Development by developing the presentation layer in Visualforce and business logic in the ApexProgramming by creating/using the Classes, Triggers, Standard Controllers, Custom Controllers, Controller Extensions, S-Controls and WebServices API.  • Have good working knowledge in querying salesforce.com database using SOQL & SOSL queries using Force.com Explorer.  • Proficiency in SFDC Administrative tasks like creating Profiles, Roles, Users, Page Layouts, Email Services, Approvals, Workflows, Reports, Dashboards, Tasks and Events.  • Experience in Salesforce Testing and Administration spanning all facets of package software and SaaS application implementation.  • Experience with the Force.com platform, including template solutions like Sales Cloud and Service Cloud  • Experience in bulk data migration from Excel, MS outlook and Legacy Systems to Salesforce.com using ApexData Loader, Import Wizard.  • In depth understanding of Salesforce programming including Lightning, APEX, Force.com, and VisualForce  • Experience as the technical developer on projects focused on Salesforce - Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Marketing Cloud and the Force.com platform.  • Well versed in cloud computing and on premise infrastructure integration for Salesforce.com using Force.com platform, Batch Apex, Web Services with third party applications.  • Experience as the technical developer on projects focused on Salesforce - Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Marketing Cloud and the Force.com platform and which Used REST and SOAP web services.  • Hands on experience in designing and developing dynamic web content using HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript and other web development technologies.  • Expertise in Server side programming/development using Java, JSP, Servlets, and XML and deploying in application servers Jboss and Weblogic.  • Competent in analyzing and creating Narrative Use Cases, Use Case Diagrams, Activity diagrams, Class diagrams, Data/Navigational flow diagram using UML Tools like MS Visio.  • Highly motivated team player with excellent communication, presentation and interpersonal skills. Willing to work in a challenging and cross-platform environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Salesforce Developer /Admin Neuberger Berman - Manhattan, NY November 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked on maintaining the functional areas of accounts, contacts, leads, campaigns, opportunities, quotes, activities dashboards and also Process knowledge of Sales and Service Clouds  • Provided support ongoing Salesforce.com maintenance and administration services including periodic datacleansing, custom objects, workflow and triggers.  • Perform detailed analysis of business and technical requirements and developed the Apex classes using other Platform based technologies like Visualforce, Force.com IDE.  • Integrated with external system using Web Services Callouts for cleansing the Address and save the data in the pages of Salesforce.com.  • Integrated the SOAP and REST based Web Services for extracting the data from external systems to display in the pages of Salesforce.com.  • Experience as an administrator of both the Sales Cloud and the Service Cloud to implement and deliver  • Worked on designing and developing Lightning Community Builder and developed Lightning Components using aura framework.  • Assisting in migrating existing functionalities from Salesforce classic interface to lightning interface.  • Implemented Chatter, Chatter desktop developed public and private groups.  • Created Workflows, Approval processes, Validation rules and sharing rules.  • Organized Marketing Campaigns, Campaign Hierarchies, Lead Queries, Assignment rules, Web-to- Lead and Auto-Response rules.  • Worked on Service cloud, Sales Cloud, supported cases, developed workflows and triggers for automated case resolutions.  • Gathering requirements from Users in order to create stories and add implementation details for the stories.  • Modified existing profiles, roles, Object permissions and field permissions.  • Created new Record Types, page layouts, Validation rules for several objects.  • Customized page layouts for Opportunity, Contacts, and Accounts depending upon user roles, and groups.  • Created Force.com Sites for external users and configured public access to accommodate data access in visual force pages, and implemented Salesforce Chatter functionality for one to many business users.  • Knowledge in Writing Triggers and workflows, Customizing Error Pages for sites.  • Created Workflows, Approval processes, Validation rules and sharing rules.  • Organized Marketing Campaigns, Campaign Hierarchies, Lead Queries, Assignment rules, Web-to-Lead and Auto-Response rules.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Apex Language, Data Loader, HTML, Java Script, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Sandbox data loading, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Windows. Sr. Salesforce Developer/Admin Acumen Solutions - McLean, VA April 2016 to October 2017 Responsibilities:  • Creating application to maintain the details of the product from demand phase to production phase.  • Developed Apex Triggers, Apex Classes, Controllers and Test Classes within Governor Limits.  • Developed various Batch Apex Classes and scheduled those using Apex Schedulable Classes.  • Designed Visualforce pages using Visualforce Components, Style Sheets, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Created SFDC sites to provide public access to visualforce pages.  • Proficient in administering, configuring User Profiles, Roles, Permissions, Validation Rules, Security Controls, Public Groups, Permission Sets, Workflow Rules, Approval Processes.  • Experience with Service Cloud and Sales Cloud Functionalities.  • Generated different Reports like standard, custom, tabular, summary, matrix and Joint to meet business requirements.  • Experience with Service Cloud and Sales Cloud Functionalities.  • Developed Assignment rules, Escalation rules to enable proper routing of cases to the case team members.  • Worked on Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Opportunities and Opportunity Price books.  • Created page layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and Custom Buttons.  • Created Many-to-Many, Master-detail, Look up and Formula Fields to satisfy business needs.  • Worked on the Geolocation field to identify a location by its latitude and longitude.  • Migrated bulk data from Legacy Systems to Salesforce.  • Designed and developed workflows and Process Builders to automate the business processes.  • Implemented Marketing Cloud and worked with entities Campaign, Campaign Influence, Leads and Contacts.  • Worked on Custom Setting and Test Case.  • Written SOQL, SOSL, Aggregate, Relationship queries in apex classes, triggers to retrieve optimized data from Objects.  • Developed custom Objects, Fields, Dependent picklist values, and validation rules, Page Layouts, Search Layouts and Tabs.  • Performed administrative tasks - creating Users, Profiles, Roles, Permission Sets, Page Layouts, Record Types and configured sharing rules based on Organization role hierarchy.  • Used Data Loader for insert, update and bulk import or export of data from Sales force Objects.  • Created and maintained the documentation for application Design, data mapping document for Migration and integration technical design document.  • Worked on Wave Analytics to build reports.  Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Visual Work flows, Apex Language, Data Loader, HTML, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Sandbox data loading, Eclipse IDE Plug-in Sr. Salesforce Developer VISA - Austin, TX May 2015 to March 2016 Responsibilities:  • Gathered requirements and prepared requirement documents and technical design documents to meet the business rules.  • Migrated data from Oracle to Salesforce using Cast Iron.  • Implemented Stand Alone Applications for internal users.  • Worked on Salesforce reCaptcha for security purpose.  • Implemented web-to-lead and web-to-case.  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing by using change sets.  • Experience working with Force.com IDE & Eclipse IDE in design and development of Custom Application for Complex Business Processes in both Sales and Service Cloud Modules.  • Worked in salesforce Production Support to identify the root cause of the issue and fixed the same.  • Implemented Profiles, Roles, Users, Page Layouts, Email Services, Approval Processes, Workflows, Reports, Dashboards, Tasks, Events and Audit Trials.  • Generated different kinds of reports and Dashboards as per the user's request.  • Worked on Visual Workflows for taking survey on company's product.  • Worked on Email Services and Web Services.  • Implemented escalation rules, automatic case generation and their escalation to call center representative, and generated email alerts for quick issue resolution.  • Implemented security and sharing rules at object, field, and record level for different users at different levels of organization. Also created various profiles and configured the permissions based on the organizational hierarchy and created public groups.  Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Apex Language, Data Loader, HTML, Java Script, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Sandbox data loading, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Windows. Salesforce Developer Cardinal Bank - McLean, VA July 2014 to April 2015 Responsibilities:  • Designed and Developed several APEX triggers, classes, Visual Force pages for various functional needs in the application.  • Created Visualforce Email templates and also automated Email process to send installation instructions to new and existing customers.  • Interact with the offshore team, coordinate with development efforts and get the status update on Development items and Bug Fixing.  • Worked and Developed Custom portals, partner portal.  • Used Apex Data Loader for Insert, update and bulk import or export of data from Salesoforce.com objects. Used it to read, extract and load data from comma separated values (CSV), implanted Automation of their loads.  • Handling Service desk tickets for all types of salesforce.com and integration requests.  • Worked on Batch Apex, Schedule Apex Jobs.  • Created Test Cases, Scenarios on analyzing requirements at each phase of testing in SIT, UAT and verified & validated in QC.  • Created Ant Scripts for deployment changes from Sandbox to Production.  • Implemented Service Cloud including: Service Console, Customer Portal & Communities, Case Feed, Knowledge Base and Entitlements.  • Worked on setting up and implementing Live agent and service console.  • Created Skills set for implementing Live Agent pre-chat forms.  • Worked extensively in customization of Service Cloud Console by embedding Visualforce pages in custom console components, highlight panel and interaction log.  Environment:Apex, Visual force, S-Controls, Force.com IDE, Exact target, JQuery, SOQL, SOSL, HTML, CSS, XML, XSL, Apex data loader, CA Service Desk, Live Agent/ Service Console, Workbench, Click tools, Marketo, Oracle 9i, MS office 2003, Oracle 10g/9i, TOAD 8.0. Java/J2EE Developer State of NY - Albany, NY December 2012 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  • Gathered the Software Requirement Specifications.  • Setup My Eclipse IDE and Subversion Configuration management system for the project  • Implemented the front-end of the application using JSP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Used Log4J for tracing messaging and trouble shooting  • Involved in system testing and defect fixing.  • Involved in Unit Testing individual java classes for verifying the validation logic.  • Implemented DAO for data access using Hibernate framework.  • Followed application development life cycle using waterfall methodology.  • Building the tables and hibernate mapping files for storing and accessing the address information.  • Created an XML configuration file for Hibernate -- Database connectivity.  • Designed MySQL Database, created DB table definition with constraints.  • Used SQL Navigator and Oracle 10g for data manipulation and retrieval.  • Used JUnit for test driven development and perform unit testing.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSF, JSP, MySQL, XML, Web services, Hibernate, Web sphere 6.1. Java/J2EE developer Innominds - IN June 2010 to November 2012 Responsibilities:  • Implemented Enterprise Java Beans and Servlets in WebLogic Server, including Entity Beans and Session Beans  • Created part of the database consisting of about 75 tables in MS SQL 6.5 using SQL statements.  • Performed unit testing for the code and written test cases for the shopping cart module and performed black box and white box testing for the module  • Participated in the partial release of the application into production with the application hosted at Level III.  • Creating Oracle objects like tables, types, packages, procedures and functions  • Monitored the error logs using Log4J and fixed the problems  • Preparation of Test Data and Test Cases for Unit Testing using Junit  • Used Rational Clear Case for version control and source code management  • Used Rational Clear Quest for tracking errors and bugs in the project source code  Environment: Java, JDBC, JSP, Servlets, EJB, JavaScript/HTML, SQL Server, and Web logic Server. Education Bachelors in Information Technology Kakatiya University April 2011 Skills HTML (8 years), JAVA (5 years), JAVASCRIPT (5 years), ECLIPSE (5 years), APEX (4 years), SFDC, Salesforce, Certification, Visualforce, purchasing, customer service, loader, sap, Soql, COM Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILL SET  Salesforce Technologies Apex, SOQL, SOSL, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), S-Controls, Triggers, Custom Objects, Web services  Salesforce API Tools Apex Explorer, Offline Edition, App Exchange, Data Loader, Connect Offline, Salesforce-to-Salesforce  Salesforce Integration Tools Apex Data Loader  IDEs Eclipse, EditPlus  Programming Languages C, Java, PERL  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, WSDL, SOAP, DHTML  J2EE Technologies JSP, JavaScript, PERL, Servlets, JDBC-ODBC