Java Application Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Application Developer - Kroger Charlotte, NC • About 7 years of experience as a Software Development Engineer with increasing responsibilities involving Analysis, Architectural Design, Development, Prototyping, Implementation and Testing of client-server applications using Java and J2EE Technologies.  • Expert level skills in developing applications using Core Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, JavaBeans, Hibernate, Web Services, JDBC, XML, HTML, CSS, DHTML, JavaScript, AJAX and jQuery.  • Proficient in Object Oriented Programming & Design and UML (Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams), Design Patterns and OOAD using Microsoft Visio.  • Experience in developing responsive GUI components using Backbone JS, Node JS and Bootstrap.  • Experienced in using Web application frameworks like Spring MVC, JSF and Struts framework and ORM frameworks like Hibernate, iBatis, JPA ( Java Persistence API)  • Experience in Multi-threading and Collection frameworks.  • Experience in various IDE's like Eclipse, STS, IntelliJ, NetBeans, RAD whereas for JavaScript Sublime TEXT, Visual Studio Code  • Extensively worked on XML related technologies like XML, XSLT, XPATH, XSL, DTD and DOM.  • Experience in developing Web Services using XML over HTTP(s), SOAP, WSDL, and RESTful.  • Extensive experience in AngularJs, Backbone.Js, NodeJS to create single webpage applications.  • Strong Knowledge of Relational Databases including Oracle SQL, MySQL.  • Experience in various web and application servers like Apache Tomcat, WebSphere, Pivotal tc,WebLogic and JBoss(Drools).  • Experience in developing SQL, Stored Procedures, functions, triggers using Oracle and comfortable working with databases like SQL Server, DB2, No-SQL and MySQL.  • Worked on Amazon Web Services (AWS) like EC2, LAMBDA, S3, AMAZON AURORA, VPC, ROTE53, IAM, KMS, SES, Beanstalk, SNS.  • Experienced in Cloud automation using AWS Cloud Formation templates.  • Involved in CI/CD process using GIT, Nexus, Jenkins job creation,  • Experienced on java build tools like Maven life cycle, Gradle, ANT  • Created Docker image and deployment in AWS environment.  • Strong knowledge in Document Object Model (DOM) functions and significant experience in Responsive Web Design (RWD).  • Experience in creating test suites using jasmine and worked on tools like NPM (node package manager), Bower, Grunt.  • Strong experience with cross browser compatibility issues and optimization for web, including CSS sprites and best practices.  • In-depth understanding of the eCommerce, Retail and Banking Domain.  • Experience in working with messaging systems like JMS, Web sphere MQ, MDB.  • Experience in Writing Shell Scripting.  • Hands on Selenium, Cucumber Reports  • Worked with JUnit for unit testing.  • Experience with Firebug for Mozilla, Developer Toolbar for Chrome and IE Developer Toolbar for Internet Explorer.  • Followed Waterfall and Agile/Scrum methodology of software development which satisfies the customer through early and continuous delivery of valuable software.  • Hands on experience with version control tools like SVN, GIT and CVS.  • Excellent client interaction and presentation skills and proven experience in working independently as well in a team  • Used Log4J for logging, debugging and error tracing.  • Excellent communication and analytical skills and flexible to adapt to evolving technology.  • Impeccable Communication and analytical skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Application Developer Kroger - Charlotte, NC December 2018 to Present Description: Kroger operate 2,760 grocery retail stores under a variety of banner names. Our formats include supermarkets, seamless digital shopping options, price-impact warehouse stores, and multi-department stores, which are similar to supercenters, but offer an expanded variety of national brand appeal and general merchandise.    RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modelling, analysis, Design, Development, and Testing.  • Followed agile methodology, interacted with the client, provide/take feedback on the features, suggest/ implement optimal solutions and tailored application to customer needs.  • Used java 1.8 Stream and Lambda expressions available as part of to store and process the data.  • Involved in development, design and implementation front end part of the widget-based application using HTML5, CSS3-LESS, AJAX, Bootstrap 4.0.  • Experience with the new features of Angular 7 new if else syntax, ng-templates, form validators, Routers.  • Highly used Angular 5 to build Single Page Application for navigation through the different status and multiple modals.  • Implemented Services and Dependency Injection in Angular 7 to connect the web application to back-end APIs and for sharing the code between the components.  • Developed front-end components using Angular 5, TypeScript, Angular Material and NgRx-bootstrap and Node.  • Experience with authentication protocols (SAML 2.0). Develop Rest End points to provide Authentication, Authorization, SSO and Auditing.  • Worked with ELK stack for searching the log, routing the log data and for visualizing the logged data.  • Implemented Micro services Architecture with Spring Boot based services interacting through a combination of REST and SOAP.  • Implemented Micro services using Spring Batch, Spring Boot, and Spring Security.  • Used Spring IOC to make the code loosely coupled and Spring's Hibernate Support for transaction management.  • Implemented Complex Business Delegate layer using DAO's created and business logic.  • Implemented Multithreading, Concurrency, Exception Handling, Generics, and Collections whenever necessary.  • Implemented business layer using Core java, Spring Beans using dependency injection, spring annotations.  • Implemented Microservices using Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Spring Microservices  • Used Micro services architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST and MQ to build, test and deploy Microservices.  • Developed SQL scripts for transfer of data between databases.  • Configured the Hibernate configuration files to persist the data to the Oracle 11g Database.  • Focused on Test Driven Development thereby creating detailed Junit tests for every single piece of functionality before writing the functionality.  • Used Maven building tool for creating EAR file to be deployed in application servers. It is also used for dependency management of code in application.  • Implemented Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery (CI & CD) Process stack using Devops tools like Jenkins.  • Used Swagger as medium for modifying the web services URL to feed the input to UI.  • Used Post Man to test the web service calls.  • Used SONAR to ensure code quality and code coverage and worked on fixing the issues.  • Used Subversion as version control system and Tortoise client for SVN.  • Configured log4j to enable/disable logging in application.  • Resolved bugs/defects in application by coordinated with team members of the project to assure a positive outcome.  • Involved in production support, resolving the production job failures, interacting with the operations support group for resuming the failed jobs.    Environment: Java, TypeScript, Spring AOP, SVN, Maven, Jenkins, CCL, Junit, Spring Batch, Hibernate, SOAP & Restful services, Mockito, XML, log4J, Linux, Angular 5, GitHub, JavaScript, Jasmine, Spring boot, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS, Cucumber, JIRA, Maven, SAML, SSO, Swagger, Weblogic, Kafka Full Stack Java Developer Realogy - Madison, NJ April 2018 to December 2018 Description: We bring the power of Realogy to help real estate agents become more productive and build stronger businesses. This makes our franchise brands and brokerage offices the most attractive destination for agents to call home.    RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Responsible for all stages of design, development, and deployment of applications.  • Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology (SCRUM) for developing application.  • Designed the front-end screens using AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, J-Query, Bootstrap and ReactJS.  • Used React Router for routing the redux app to connect redux and React to support routes.  • Worked on state, specs, props and events to create interactive ReactJS components.  • Implemented client-side Interface using ReactJS, Angular 2.0 and server side by NodeJS.  • Created probes in ReactJS to know which type of probes used.  • Implemented MVVM architecture using React and Redux framework.  • Utilized Java8 features like Lambda expressions and Stream API for Bulk data operations on Collections which would increase the performance of the Application.  • Worked on Thread handling to maintain continuity of execution and extensively implemented Multithreading concept to handle Transaction Management with isolation and propagation levels.  • Created AWS EC2 instances and installed required configurations and applications on it and created S3 buckets for storing object level data into it.  • Experienced with event-driven and scheduled AWS Lambda functions to trigger various AWS resources.  • Used AWS SDK for connection to Amazon S3 buckets as it is used as the object storage service to store and retrieve the media files related to the application and Amazon Cloud Watch is used to monitor the application and to store the logging information.  • Used Spring Boot for building Micro services and developed Spring based application radically faster with very less configuration.  • Deployed Spring Boot based Micro services using Amazon EC2 container services using AWS admin console.  • Automated continuous integration delivery workflows to deploy Micro services applications via Docker containers.  • Created Spring Batches for running batch jobs and documented the use of Spring Batch.  • Worked on creating the Docker Containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle.  • Configured Jenkins Public DNS by creating an instance in AWS. Developed a deployment management system for Docker Containers in AWS (ECS) Elastic Container Service.  • Integrated RabbitMQ and Spring JMS API to send and receive messages from RESTful APIs.  • Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, replication, schema design, etc.  • Worked with modules like express using NodeJS for data persistence using MongoDB.  • Developed RESTful web services using JAX-RS and Jersey as the implementation for fetching the data from Oracle Database.  • secured REST API'S by implementing oauth 2.0 token-based authentication/authorization scheme using spring security.  • Utilized Hibernate reverse engineering to create an automated process that generated hundreds of Java POJO entities from database.  • Extensively used Hibernate mapping, HQL, EH Cache, Query, Criteria, Transactions and Locking.  • Written and executed several stored procedures, triggers, packages, views and functions using SQL Developer tool.  • Used Spark-Streaming APIs to perform necessary transformations and actions on the fly for building the common learner data model which gets the data from Kafka in near real time and Persists into Cassandra.  • Configured deployed and maintained multi-node Dev and Test Kafka Clusters.  • Used GitHub for code repository and version control.  • Used JIRA issue tracker to file the bugs.  • Built Maven scripts for automated deployment and for the build operation of the entire application.  • Designed and coded application components utilizing a test-driven development approach (TDD).  • Performed Unit Testing using Junit, Mockito frameworks for all the migrated modules to ensure complete code coverage.  • Implemented SLF4J framework for logging info and are helpful in debugging the issues.    Environment Environment: Java/JDK, J2SE/J2EE, Java8, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, J-Query, ReactJS, Redux, Spring, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Spring MVC, AngularJS, NodeJS, Bootstrap, Multithreading, Micro Services, Ec2, S3, SDK, MySQL, SOA, JDBC, AWS, Hibernate, REST, JSON, RESTful, Spark, Eclipse, RabbitMQ, JMS, MAVEN,TDD, JUnit, Jenkins, J Boss, Linux, Oracle, MongoDB, GIT, PL/SQL, Docker, ANT, JIRA, Apache Kafka. Sr. java Developer GreenSky, LLC - Alpharetta, GA August 2017 to April 2018 Description: GreenSky, Inc. is a financial technology company founded in 2006 based in Atlanta, Georgia. The company provides technology to banks and merchants to make loans to consumers for home improvement, solar, healthcare and other purposes.    Responsibilities:  • AGILE Scrum development process has been followed and involved in retrospective, demos, planning and code review meetings.  • Design and developed application user interfaces using Spring boot, Spring, jQuery, JavaScript, HTML5 and CSS  • Created views, models and controllers and followed Architecture for the web application development.  • Developed supplier and order module views using EXT-JS components like forms, layouts, grids, tabs, menus, viewports, Ajax etc.  • Developed restful resources using Spring and Jersey to serve the web application data in JSON format  • Developed business components using Spring IOC, AOP, spring annotations and created user detail service for authentication and access control using Spring LDAP and Spring Security.  • Developed middleware service and data access layer using Spring and Hibernate and used Spring Declarative Transaction management.  • Responsible for all client-side UI Validation and implementing Business logic based on user selection using jQuery, jQuery UI and angular JS.  • Extensively used AngularJS, NodeJS, JQUERY, JSON, AJAX and DOM scripting to create interactive web applications like message posting and auto complete form validations.  • Wrote internal and external API services using Node.js modules. Developed internal services using Java and Node.js  • Used Angular 1.4 framework where data from backend is stored in model and populated it to UI, and a good experience on YUI, Flux, and Arrow.  • Used Angular JS framework for building web-apps and is highly efficient with PHP framework  • Developed Spring JMS message listeners to create and consume messages across modules from the application queues and developed data access objects and used spring, criteria API, HQL and named queries for data retrievals.  • Developed hibernate ORM mappings using Hibernate and JPA annotations to map java classes to data base tables.  • Developed hibernate inheritance mapping using single table approach and configured multi-level caching in Hibernate to reduce the load on the Oracle database server.  • Maintaining of Entity Beans and Session Beans using EJB 3.0 Specification  • Involved in java multithreading to cascade multiple changes on multiple records in only one transaction and Developed a batch process framework Used WSDL and SOAP protocol for Web Services implementation.  • Implemented Persistence layer using Hibernate that use the POJOs to represent the persistence database tuples in DB2.  • Deployed and tested the application in AWS.  • Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML5 and ReactJS.  • Maintained existing UI Applications and upgraded them using CSS3, jQuery, AJAX, JavaScript, React JS, Backbone JS, JSON and HTML5  • Configured, set up and developed cloud based GWT application on Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Developed the application using Spring tool suite and involved in testing and deploying to other environments on Web sphere application server    Environment: Java, Spring 4, Spring boot, Hibernate 4, Oracle, EJB 3.0, EXT-JS 4, AWS, HTML5, Angular JS, ReactJS, NodeJS, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS, REST Web services, Junit, XML, JAXB, Maven, GIT, Jenkins, Web Sphere, Node-JS Java UI developer DISYS - Tampa, FL August 2015 to July 2017 Description: Digital Intelligence Systems, LLC (DISYS) is a global staffing, IT consulting & managed services firm with more than 33 offices worldwide. Within these offices, DISYS employs industry problem solvers who have the expertise to understand industry staffing issues but also possess the knowledge to locate inefficiencies, design and implement game-changing automation and other IT service offerings. Whether it is bridging or replacing legacy systems, moving an enterprise to the cloud, creating automated technology to streamline compliance or turning raw data into actionable information, DISYS is dedicated to enabling its clients to work smarter and more efficiently even in the smallest, most mundane of business tasks.    Responsibilities:  • Review the system requirements and attending requirements meetings with analysts and users.  • Involved in the life cycle of the project from documentation to unit testing making development as priority.  • Developed web pages using Struts framework, JSP, XML, JavaScript, sHtml/ Dhtml and CSS, configure struts application, use tag library.  • Used Apache Struts framework includes the integrated AJAX.  • Played major role in designing & developing JSP pages and XML reports.  • Developed Servlets and custom tags for JSP pages.  • Developed few module Web pages using Springs IOC and Hibernate.  • Designed and developed dynamic pages using HTML, CSS- layout techniques, Java script.  • Took the various challenges in the enhancement and completed them on time.  • Extensive Used Exception handling and Multi-threading for the optimum performance of the application.  • Extensive use of multi-threading from synchronization  • Involved in design (using RUP, Visio) and implemented (SOA, SOAP) next generation system on distributed platform.  • Extensively used XSL as XML parsing mechanism for showing Dynamic Web Pages in HTML format.  • Implemented OWAS (Open web Application Security) mechanisms for secure bank transactions.  • Implemented Searching based algorithms for searching key-terms in application  • Implemented SOAP protocol to get the requests from the outside System.  • Used CVS as a source control for code changes.  • Used ANT scripts to build the project and JUnit to develop unit test cases.  • Developed coding using SQL, PL/SQL, Queries, Joins, Views, Procedures/Functions, Triggers and Packages.  • Provided development support for System Testing, Product Testing, User Acceptance Testing, Data Conversion Testing, Load Testing, and Production.  • Deployed application on Web sphere application server.    Environment: Java, J2EE, AJAX, Servlets, JSP, RUP, Eclipse 3.1, Struts, Spring 2.0, Hibernate, XML, CVS, Java Script, jQuery, GWT, ANT, SOAP, Log4J, DB2, Web Sphere server, UNIX, IBM Web Sphere Portal Server, Message Broker Sr. Java developer RD Global Services - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2014 to August 2015 Description: JADE AND STAT Jade and Stat systems maintains the completed budget of Citibank. It contains like quarterly/ annum user can get budgeting data the incoming and outgoing of finance. In detailed tells us whole budget expenses and finance growth in market.    Responsibilities:  • Developed the J2EE application based on the Service Oriented Architecture.  • Used Design Patterns like Singleton, Factory, MVC, Intercepting Filter, Front Controller, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Session Facade and DAO.  • Developed using new features of Java like Annotations, Generics, enhanced for loop and Enums.  • Worked in all the modules of the application which involved front-end presentation logic developed using Tiles, JSP, JSTL and java script, Business objects developed using POJOs and data access layer using iBatis framework.  • Created of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using JS, EXTJS and JQUERY.  • Designed and implemented Configuration Management Database (CMDB) for Service-Now environment.  • Implemented XSLT to traverse through XML nodes in Drools implementation code.  • Involved in writing Thread Safe blocks for multithread access to make valid transactions.  • Created and injected spring services, Spring controllers and DAOs to achieve dependency injection and to wire objects of business classes.  • Used Spring Inheritance to develop beans from already developed parent beans.  • Used DAO pattern to fetch data from database using IBATIS to carry out various database.  • I used multithreading extensively in the math engine was rather ahead of its time: its immediate purpose was to enhance the user experience of the program by deferring lengthy calculations to background threads  • Used Hibernate Transaction Management, Hibernate Batch Transactions, and cache concepts.  • Developed various generic JavaScript functions used for validations.  • Developed screens using JSP, JavaScript, AJAX and Ext JS. Used XStream API to transfer data back and forth between Spring MVC and Ext JS.  • Used AJAX extensively to implement front end /user interface features in the application.  • Developed many JSP pages, used Dojo in JavaScript Library, jQuery UI for client-side validation.  • Configured Apache Tomcat Application server and supported.  • Database development required creation of new tables, PL/SQL stored procedures, functions, views, indexes and constraints, triggers and required SQL tuning to reduce the response time in the application.  • Worked closely with QA team and fixed QA bugs as well as production issues with a quick turnaround time.  • Focused on Test Driven Development, thereby creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality before writing the functionality. Used Ant scripts to build and deploy the applications in JBoss application Server.  • Used Log4j utility to generate run-time logs.  • Developed Functional Requirement Document based on user's requirement.    Environment: JDK, J2EE, Spring1.2 framework, Spring MVC, iBatis, JSP, JSF, Servlets, JDBC, AJAX, XML, Java Beans, Apache POI, jQuery, JavaScript, Ext JS, Dojo, Oracle, IBM RAD, Agile Methodology, Design Patterns, VSS, Apache Maven, JUnit, HTML Unit, XSLT, HTML/DHTML, Unix. Java developer DevotTED - Hyderabad, Telangana December 2012 to May 2014 Description: We are DevotTED to provide technology enabled integrated solutions via High-end Mobile apps and Web apps to meet the business and functional needs of our customers and clients.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirements gathering, implementation and setting up the development environment.  • Designed components for company's object framework using best practices and J2EE design patterns such as Model-View-Controller (MVC), Data Access Object, Value Object, and Business Delegate.  • Actively participated in the complete life cycle of development, from the design phase to implementation Phase.  • Creating use cases, class diagrams, activity diagrams and collaboration diagrams.  • Responsible for environment setup in LINUX environment. (DEV, QA).  • Played a key role in the development of server-side functionality of handling the requests and responses using Java Servlets.  • Created Data Access Object (DAO) which is used by the Hibernate API calls to interact with the database.  • Designed and implemented Web Services calls for service provider methods.  • Study existing system and incorporate/suggest changes. Involved in developing new functionality as per the needs of the users.    Environment: JSP, Servlets, Struts framework, MVC, Java Beans, JDBC, Tomcat, Linux, Oracle 10g, JavaScript, jQuery, JUnit. Education Master's Skills ECLIPSE, EJB, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, Javascript, Angular, React, Jquery Additional Information Technical Skills:    Java -J2EE Jave8, JSP, Servlet, EJB, Entity Beans, JDBC, JSTL.  Frameworks Struts, Spring, JSF, MVC, Spring Boot, Hibernate, jQuery, NodeJS, AngularJS, Angular 2/4/5, ReactJS, Bootstrap, GWT.  Middleware Apache Tomcat, J-Boss, WebSphere, Web Services (Spring WS, SOAP and REST), RMI, WebLogic, Apache Http.  UI Technologies HTML, XHTML, JavaScript, AJAX, JSP, JSTL, Ui-Binder.  Scripts JavaScript, TypeScript, ECMAScript.  Web Services WSDL, SOAP, RESTFUL, JAX-WS, JAX-ReS, AXIS, JERSEY, Microservices  IDE Eclipse 2.1-3.5, RAD, NetBeans 6.x, RAD, IntelliJ, Spring Tool Suite, MyEclipse.  Design Skills UML (Rational Rose, Visio), Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), Java Enterprise Design Patterns  Database and Tools Oracle 8i/9i/10g, MS SQL2000/2005/2017, MySQL, DB2, DynamoDB, MongoDB, Cassandra.  Operating Systems Windows, Unix/Linux  Source Control GIT, SVN, CVS, Tortoise SVN  Deployment and Testing Maven, Ant, Junit, Mockito, Cucumber, JMeter, M Unit, Jenkins, Docker  Messaging JMS, Active MQ, RabbitMQ, Apache Kafka.  Other Tools JIRA, Log4j, SLF4J, Jasper server, Apache Camel, Axe-core, JWT, SAML, Up-Source.