Sr JAVA/J2EE Developer Sr <span class="hl">JAVA</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr JAVA/J2EE Developer - Sabre Los Angeles, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr JAVA/J2EE Developer Sabre - Los Angeles, CA September 2017 to Present SabreSonicWeb: The Project allows users to book flights through various routes like oneway, roundtrip, multicity with the specified passenger data. Passengers can select various Ancillaries(bags),Seats(Free seat, Paid seat),various class like Economy,Bussiness.Through Modified trip option(MTO) path,passengers can change seats to different category,can choose different ancillary,can change the routes.User can pay using various credit cards by payment options facility.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing the presentation layer using Spring MVC,CSS3, JavaScript,Ext JS,HTML5, jQuery,Sencha and AJAX,AngularJS.  • Written server side and client side validations.  • Worked with java 1.8 concepts like filter,streams for looping and filtering criteria.  • Developed the server side components using Spring and Java. Used Spring DI and AOP features.  • Developed Rest clients using Spring's RestTemplate and Restful Web services using Jersey Framework.  • Worked on Spring Boot with Profiles.  • Worked with SOA Technology,Developed and consumed SOAP web services.  • Extensively used SOAPUI and Postman for testing web services.  • Involved in developing the persistence layer using Hibernate.  • Written queries to save and retrieve user data from Oracle ,.No SQL Mongo DB.  • Written unit tests using Junit and Mockito.  • Used Spring JMS to perform asynchronous operations.  • Worked with object oriented design principles like inheritance,polymorphism,  • Involved in production support, monitoring server and error logs and Foreseeing the Potential Issues, and escalating to the higher levels and Provide trainings to End-user and developer.  • Used browser developer tools to debug the issues.  • Extensively used Core Java concepts like Collections, Generics, Enums, Annotations and several utility classes from Apache like CollectionUtils and StringUtils etc.  • Configured Hudson jobs. Fixed sonar violations.  • Used Winscp and putty to connect with UNIX machines to perform deployments, start/stop servers and monitoring the logs in various Environments.  • Written various deployment shellscripts to clear content from server.  • Extensively worked with Zuul gateway service that provides dynamic routing, monitoring, resiliency, security.  • Written complex SQL queries and Used SQL developer for interacting with data base  • Used Maven as a build tool.  • Worked with AWS deployment purpose.  Environment: JDK1.8, Spring, IntelliJ, Apache Web server, weblogic Application Server, SQL Developer, Git, Maven, Log4J, Junit, Hudson, SOAPUI, Postman , Hibernate, Oracle,AWS,Node JS. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Supreme Court - Richmond, VA January 2017 to August 2017 E-MAGISTARTE: The new magistrate system (named the "eMagistrate System"), which is funded by a federal grant for the Charge Standardization Project (CSP), is a central database for tracking offenses  Committed throughout the state of Virginia. Its primary function is to improve data flow between Magistrates, courts, state police and other agencies; to automate form generation and to facilitate  a reduction in duplicate or erroneous data entry.    Responsibilities:  • Developed the project by following Agile methodologies.  • Involved in developing the presentation layer using Spring MVC, CSS3, HTML5,javascript, AngularJS,EXT JS, jQuery and AJAX.  • Written server side and client side validations.  • Developed the server side components using Spring and Java. Used Spring DI and AOP features.  • Developed Rest clients using Spring's RestTemplate and Restful Web services using Jersey Framework.  • Developed and consumed SOAP web services.  • Extensively used SOAPUI and Postman for testing web services.  • Involved in developing the persistence layer using Hibernate.  • Written queries to save and retrieve user data from DB2.  • Written unit tests using Junit and Mockito.  • Extensively worked on Spring Boot with Profiles.  • I Worked with object oriented design principles like inheritance,polymorphism,  • Worked on Production issues i.e fixed the tickets based on severity levels.  • Provide the production support for the application to the business users.  • Used browser developer tools to debug the issues.  • Extensively worked with Zuul gateway service that provides dynamic routing, monitoring, resiliency, security.  • Extensively used Core Java concepts like Collections, Generics, Enums, Annotations and several utility classes from Apache like CollectionUtils and StringUtils etc.  • Configured Hudson jobs. Fixed sonar violations.  • Written various deployment shellscripts.  • Used Winscp and putty to connect with UNIX machines to perform deployments, start/stop servers and monitoring the logs in various Environments.  • Written complex SQL queries and Used Squirrel SQL client for interacting with data base.  • Used ANT as a build tool.  Environment: JDK1.7, Spring, RAD, Apache Web server, Websphere Application Server, Squirrel SQL client, SVN, ANT, Log4J, Junit, Hudson, SOAPUI, Postman , Hibernate, DB2,Node JS. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Hilton Hotels - Memphis, TN August 2015 to December 2016 Pangea: Pangea program is a global initiative to deploy a new set of web-based applications that both consolidates and unifies Hilton's existing web presence into a single infrastructure, while also significantly enhancing the functionality, and extending Hilton's presence in new source markets (UK, DE, and JP). This site uses advanced internet technologies to provide a unique travel planning and secure online booking experience for consumers.  Responsibilities:  • Participated in the business requirements analysis meetings and prepared use-case diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Involved in development of very critical transactions- Hotel Search, Availability, Booking, Guest Enroll and Guest Update.  • Involved in installing and configuration of apache web server which is being used to serve static resources (css/js/images) and route the requests.  • Developed Rest clients using Spring's RestTemplate and Restful Web services using Jersey Framework.  • Developed the presentation layer using Spring, JSP, JSTL, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, jQuery Ext JS, and AJAX.  • Developed custom tags and EL-functions to separate presentation and processing logic  • Developed Service layer Using Spring and persistence layer using Hibernate.  • Worked on enhancements and defects.  • Extensively worked on various features of Hibernate such as Associations, Caching, Lazy loading and HQL  • Extensively used Dependency Injection and AOP features of Spring Frame work.  • Extensively worked on Web Services to send and receive the data from NGT.  • Extensively worked on TOAD for interacting with data base.  • Extensively used Core Java concepts Collections, Generics, Enums, Annotations and several utility classes from Apache like CollectionUtils and StringUtils etc.  • Developed complex SQL queries to perform efficient data retrieval operations.  • Developed Unit, Integration Test Cases using Junit and JMock technologies.  • Provide the production support for the application to the business users.  • Involved in complete software development life cycle (SDLC)  • Developed the custom build scripts using ant tool.  • Written complex SQL queries and Used SQL developer for interacting with data base  Environment: JDK1.6, Spring2.5, Hibernate3.0, Eclipse 3.4, Weblogic application server 10.2, AspectJ, Oracle10g,TOAD,JIBX, Rational Rose ,SVN, Ant Build, Log4J, Junit,EasyMock. Java/J2EE Developer Fidelity Investments - Marlborough, MA January 2014 to July 2015 Defined Benefits: Defined benefits are the retirement solution employer can offer to employee during his retirement. Fidelity Investments offers its client, entire client implementation based on the requirements from the client.Net Benefit (NB) is the online version of DBCS where participant himself/herself can calculate his/her future benefits and see the results right away on online. Plan Sponsor Workstation (PSW) is the system designed for employers which holds all the information regarding the employees and their details. Calc Engine is the Calculation Engine is the backbone of all these systems which calculates the benefits of the participants. The calculation can be initiated by a web services call either from NB or PSW.  Responsibilities:  • Analyzing the business requirements and preparing use-case diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Responsible for developing conceptual designs from requirements.  • Responsible for writing detail design documents and class diagrams and sequence diagrams.  • Designed and developed various modules such as Savings & Retirement, Retirement Dates, Service Summary, Earnings & Hours, Pension Resources and business components  • Developed the presentation layer using Struts, Tiles, JSP, JSTL, JavaScript, CSS and AJAX.  • Developed service layer using Spring frame work.  • Developed persistence layer using Hibernate.  • Extensively worked on web services to get the data from third party systems.  • Extensively used Core Java concepts Collections, Generics, Enums, Annotations and several utility classes from Apache like CollectionUtils and StringUtils etc.  • Involved in developing the module Plan Sponsor Workstation (PSW).  • Code reviews and refactoring done during the development and check list is strictly adhered during development.  • Design patterns are extensively used to achieve clean separation of different layers. Used different patterns like MVC pattern, DAO pattern, and singleton.  • Custom tag libraries are developed to separate presentation and processing logic.  • Experienced in writing SQL and PL/SQL scripts including Stored Procedures, functions, packages and Triggers  • Prepared the test plans and executed test cases for unit, integration and system testing.  • Involved in the entire software development cycle spanning requirements gathering, analysis, design, development, building, testing, and deployment.  Environment: Eclipse, Websphere application server5.1, Java 1.5, JSP2.0,Spring 2.0, Hibernate 2.1, JSTL, struts 1.2,Web services,Rational Rose, Ant, Log4J, Oracle, TOAD, Java Script, CSS. Java/J2EE Developer Motorola Inc - Chandler, AZ May 2012 to December 2013 Integrated Process Automation Tool (iPAT): iPAT, the integrated process automation tool is a Web-based project management- tracking tool. iPAT is a performance management system used for initiating projects, updating work plans, monitoring the project status, tracking project activities and capturing project related material.  Responsibilities:  • Participated in gathering the requirements and develop functional documents.  • Prepared the design specifications using Use Cases.  • Generated Class diagrams and Sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Developed user interface (UI) using Struts, jQuery, Html, CSS and AJAX  • Involved in the development of service layer using Spring and Persistence layer using Hibernate.  • Developed web service clients.  • Written Client side and server side validations.  • Used logging techniques provided by Log4j tool for efficient logging and debugging.  • Written unit tests using JUnit.  • Written build scripts using Ant.  • Used SQL Developer tool for interacting with Database and written complex SQL queries.  • Deployed the application in unix envs.  Environment: Eclipse, JBOSS, Spring, Java, JSP, Hibernate, JSTL, struts, Ant, Log4J, Oracle. Java/J2EE Developer Ford - Chennai, Tamil Nadu February 2010 to March 2011 Ford Credit is an online application, which helps the customers to apply the credit for Vehicles. User can able to track the status through online. It has two modules Payment Estimator and Account Manager. Payment estimator will provide information about EMI details, We are using web services to get the data from Mainframe system. Account Manager is a simple and secure way to connect to your account online or from your Smartphone. We can Pay our bill, Setting up automatic payments, Viewing payment history, Updating your profile and preferences Using Account Manager Application. Ford has multiple brands(Ford, Lincoln, Jagur, Mazda, Landrover..etc).For each brand we are maintaining separate website. Customers can visits the websites and knowing the offers about the Cars based Models. We are Posting the investor reports in the Website Monthly and Quarterly basis.  Responsibilities:  • Doing the daily smoke test for the brand website applications before stating the business hours  • I am responsible for uploading the Investor reports and Events presentation slide changes for brand websites.  • I am involved to upload the promotions and offers for brand websites on frequently.  • Involved in the developing of web pages using JSP and creating forms for the JSP's with the help of Senior developers.  • Implementing the Client side validation using Javascript.  • Involved in resolving the issues with in timelines.  • I am Responsible to prepare web monitor reports for brand websites on daily basis and sends to business.  • I am responsible to generate the Browser and OS reports.  • Responsible for writing JUnit Test cases for assigned use cases.  • Creating Input and Expected data as per the requirements. Education Bachelor's Skills Ajax (6 years), Ant (5 years), css (4 years), Eclipse (4 years), J2ee (7 years), Java (7 years), Javascript (6 years), jquery (5 years), Jsp (5 years), Jstl (4 years), Junit (6 years), Oracle (4 years), Rational (4 years), Rational rose. (4 years), Rest (3 years), Sql (6 years), Struts (3 years), testing (3 years), Unix (3 years), Web services (6 years) Additional Information Technical Skills  Languages JAVA 8.0/7.0/6.0/5.0, C, C++, SQL, PL/SQL  Frameworks AngularJS, Spring 4.x/3.x/2.x, Hibernate 3.0/2.1, Struts 2.0/1.2  J2EE Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JMS1.1, JDBC, Junit, JNDI Web Services, XML, JAXB, DOM, SAX, JavaMail, Multi-threading, JTA.  Web Technologies AngularJS, jQuery, Html, JavaScript,Ext JS , CSS, AJAX  Database Oracle, DB2, MongoDB  Testing Frame Works Junit, EasyMock, Mockito  Tools UML, Rational Rose, Splunk, SQL Developer, TOAD, Hudson, Jenkins, Ant, Maven, Log4J, SOAPUI, Rest Client UI, Postman, Grunt, Node JS    Operating Systems Unix, Linux, Windows  Web/App-Servers Tomcat, WebSphere, WebLogic  IDEs Eclipse 3.4, Spring Tools Suite    Methodologies Waterfall Model, Iterative, Agile, Test Driven Development.  Version Control Systems CVS, SVN, GitHub