Sr. Salesforce Developer Sr. Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Salesforce Developer - Citizens bank Providence, RI * 8 years of experience in the field of Information Technology with 5+ years of experience in Salesforce.com CRM Platform, Apex technologies, Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Marketing cloud.  * Experience in Business, Healthcare, and IT/Software Domains.  * Experience in working with Eclipse IDE with Force.com Plug-in and Mavens Mate environment for writing Business logic in Apex Programming Language.  * Extensive experience in both SFDC Administrative and Development.  * Expertise in building lightning components using aura framework, creating Visualforce pages.  * Experience on communities and classic to lightning migration.  * Experience using salesforce Lightning UI, lightning app builder, Lightning component framework, Lightning process builder.  * Working knowledge on ETL tools like Informatica Power center, SSIS and Reporting tools like OBIEE.  * Excellent Working knowledge on web 3.0 technologies like JavaScript, jQuery, HTML5 and CSS 3.0.  * Used GIT Hub to merge the configurational code changes properly, and make sure that necessary Sandboxes are not out of sync, prior to deployment.  * Experience in the Product data management for controlling and tracking the records.  * Experience with Apttus CPQ to oversee design, estimating, citing, rebates, motivating forces and recommendations on any gadget.  * Proficient in data migration and integration using tools like Informatica on Demand, Data Loader and Force.com migration Tool.  * Experience in designing skills with E-R Diagram and UML Diagrams.  * Working experience on tools like fisheye for reviewing the code, sensei for sprint retrospection and planning poker for estimating the story points.  * Created team specific agile process flow in JIRA to move tasks from one activity to another.  * Experience in using JIRA for issue tracking issues  * Extensive experience in developing enterprise applications using Java technologies such as JSP, Servlets, Spring MVC, XML, JDBC and CSS.  * Good exposure to RDBMS, SQL and PL/SQL, writing SQL scripts for efficient report generation.  * Worked on designing SOAP/REST APIs integration architecture to provide the programming interface to interact with Force.com.  * Great involvement in creating salesforce Lightning Apps, Components, Controllers and Events.  * Altered existing Visualforce to adjust to salesforce new Lightning UI encounter.  * Knowledge & experience working in teams implementing Agile Methodologies.  * Experience in the complete life cycle of project development (SDLC) including System Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Deployment and Maintenance.  * Highly organized and dedicated with a positive attitude, capable of producing results immediately on hire. Work Experience Sr. Salesforce Developer Citizens bank - Providence, RI August 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for requirements gathering from business users and prepare technical requirement specification document, Implemented Agile Methodologies in developing SDLC.  • Created a framework using Apex flex queues to track a user process of granting login credentials to DASH (Customer Portal)  • Implementation of Apex Triggers, Apex Class for automation of the business process on Account, Contact, Opportunity and Custom Objects.  • Worked on Salesforce Lightning Components for building customized components replacing the existing ones.  • Also embed Lightning Components in Visualforce Page by using new Lightning out feature by event-driven programming.  • Experience in modifying Visualforce Pages to be supported in Lightning Experience and good understanding of lightning mode and its features.  • Triggered interface events by user interactions, which includes Lightning Component Framework and involved in building Lightning Components using the aura framework.  • Implementation of Batch Classes, Scheduled Classes as part of the Business Requirement.  • Enhanced Communities by adding new fields, field sets using Salesforce lightning.  • Developed various Apex Classes, Triggers, Controller classes and methods for functional needs in the application compatible with lightning.  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Created Salesforce 1 mobile apps using Angular JS, Bootstrap, Apex and Visualforce.  • Integrated Salesforce.com with external systems like Oracle and SAP using SOAP API and REST API.  • Visualforce Pages using Standard Controllers, Custom Controllers, Extension Controllers & Web Services API. Creating new User Interface using JavaScript, HTML and CSS in Visual Force Pages.  • Created Objects, Page Layouts, Record Types, Relationships, Validation Rules, Workflows and Approval Process.  • Using Data Loader and Import Wizard for Data Export, Updates and Backup for the organization.  • Working with administration activities like Users, Profiles, Permission Set Role, OWD settings and Sharing Rules. Designed and Developed Service Cloud and Integration.  • Used GitHub for code/configurational components merge to make sure everything is in sync before deployment.  • Used Change sets or Jenkins for deployment, once the Component merge has been done in Git and the source is ready, in to the other salesforce instance  • Created workflows for automated Lead Routing, Lead Escalation and Alerts & Custom Coaching Plans.  • According to the business user's requirement, Creating Reports and Dashboards.  • Created Public Groups, Queues, Permission Sets, Profiles, Users & Security Settings based on role hierarchy. Involved in Data Migration from three Legacy Systems to Salesforce.    Environment: SalesForce.com CRM Application Platform, Salesforce lightning, Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Apex Language, Visualforce, HTML, JavaScript, Custom Objects, Tabs, Workflows, Approval Processes, E-Mail, Messaging, Dashboards, Reports, Eclipse, Sandbox, Production environment, SSO, Sfd2sfdc. Salesforce Developer / Admin Greendot corporation - Pleasanton, CA August 2017 to July 2018 Responsibilities:    • Worked on Salesforce.com customizations using Apex (classes, triggers and web services) and Visualforce that consists of several new data integrations and customizations are done to B2B Salesforce.com.  • Developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application. Migrated data from external sources and performed insert, delete, upsert, export operations on millions of records.  • Developed Visualforce Pages to customize the view and functionality of the Knowledge Articles that were required by the Organization.  • Created new user accounts and configure Salesforce to fit security needs at the user and organization levels  • Worked on various Salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Cases, Opportunities, Products, Opportunity Line Items, Leads, Campaigns, Reports and Dashboards.  • Customized page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on record pages.  • Developed Workflow Rules, Time-Dependent Workflow Actions, Email Alerts and Field Updates.  • Created and maintained User Roles, Security, and Profiles that was required for the Salesforce Knowledge implementation.  • Developed Cast Iron orchestrations that are used to synchronize data between Salesforce.com and web service endpoints.  • Worked on Lightning Process Builder to perform auto processes.  • Automated business process using lightning process builder.  • Worked on service cloud to provide a power and full functionality to a device.  • Implemented and Consumed Knowledge Base Dashboards& Reports AppExchange for providing Reports and Dashboards that monitors the Knowledge Base.  • Involved in data mapping and migration of data from legacy systems to Salesforce.com Objects and fields.  • Involved with service team on live agent console, Entitle Management and live agent web chat.  • Involved in migrating the data from Oracle database to Salesforce application using Apex Data Loader.  • Resolved issues connected to Call Centers, usage of CTI adapters and Mobile applications.  • Created reports for total open cases and created support dashboard.  • Used Data Loader for insert, update, and bulk import or export of data from Salesforce.com Objects. Used it to read, extract, and load data from comma separated values (CSV) files.  • Extracted the data from Salesforce.com application into the external databases (Oracle 10g) for generating large data reports using the Informatica on Demand.  • Integrated the Web Services for extracting the data from external systems to display in the pages of Salesforce.com.  • Conducted training sessions to the UAT users to use the Sales Force Knowledge application and developed a feedback custom report.  • Involved with Salesforce.com Premier Support and handled the support cases with the help of Salesforce.com support.    Environment: Salesforce.com, Apex Classes, Triggers, Controllers, Visualforce, Force.com, SOSL, SOQL, Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Page layout, Lightning, custom links, Roles, Cast Iron, Data Loader, Data Migration, Dashboard, Informatica, Oracle, Windows. Salesforce Developer & Admin Petco - San Diego, CA January 2016 to June 2017 Responsibilities:    • Designed and developed Visualforce Pages to meet various functional needs.  • Migrated data using Apex Data-loader to centralize data and processes across different divisions that were previously using decentralized systems / databases.  • Used Apex Classes and Visualforce page to customize partner portal and make it convenient for the customers to review and renew the licenses for the purchased products and price books.  • Created web to lead forms, assigned tasks and managed workflows for managing app.  • Build apps visually with Lightning App Builder and Lightning Components.  • Worked on various SalesForce.com standard objects like Campaigns, Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Opportunity, Forecast, Cases, Reports and Dashboards.  • Created workflow rules to send auto response e-mails, e-mail alerts, field updates and other tasks.  • Designed and developed the Custom Objects, validation rules, Page Layouts, Custom Tabs.  • Extensive Knowledge in building Custom Applications that includes administration, configuration, implementation, and support experience with Salesforce.com platform  • Worked on Apex Data Loader and Salesforce Workbench to import and/or export data to and from Salesforce.  • Experience in Data Migration using Import Wizard, Excel Connector, Workbench and other integration tools like Informatica Cloud, Apex Data Loader.  • Good experience in implementation and Integration using custom objects, Triggers, workflows/workflow rules, approvals, Visualforce Pages, Controller Classes and Apex Classes.  • Strong knowledge of sales, marketing, service and support automation.  • Strong SOQL, SOSL, Relationships and Lookups and PLSQL writing skills with emphasis in integrating in Various CRM Applications.  • Comprehensive knowledge in web services API, Force.com Sites, Analytic Snapshots, analyzing data with Reports and Dashboards.  • Involved in saving all the financial trade in data in SQL database.  • Created reports to create, deploy and manage reports using Crystal Reports.  • Implemented pick lists, dependent pick lists, lookups, master detail relationships, validation and formula fields to the custom objects.  • Individually worked on creating and implementing the Web-TO-Case functionality to solve and track customer issues.  • Deploy SFDC package from one organization to other organization.  • Used SOQL & SOSL for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Used data loader for importing and exporting bulk records.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Force.com API, Workflow & amp; Approvals, Reports, SSRS, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, E-Mail Services, Web Services, Visualforce, SalesForce.com Data Loader, Security Controls, Veeva App, HTML, XML, CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, JavaScript, AngularJS, Sandbox, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Dashboards, Analytical Snapshot and Data Migration, GitHub. Salesforce Admin / Developer Cambia Health Solutions - Portland, OR May 2014 to October 2015 Responsibilities:    • Working as enhancement team member and performing the roles of Salesforce.com Developer and Administrator in the organization  • Implemented data migration and integration between legacy system and Salesforce CRM using Informatica on Cloud.  • Maintained CPQ tool updated with latest functionality by Installing Apttus CPQ releases.  • Using a variety of systems, such as Salesforce, Apptus configure price quote (CPQ), iPartner, Docu Sign and a number of ERP systems  • Implemented Sales cloud and incorporated the enhanced features as required to streamline the business process.  • Configure Salesforce and marketing cloud integration user along with configuration in Salesforce.  • Analyzed visual force pages and made changes to work efficiently in both classic and lightening mode.  • Implemented Lightening components  • Developed Lightening components and Lightening apps to provide better and more interactive interfaces to end users, which help in sales enhancements.  • Involved in SharePoint to Salesforce Automation Process (SAP) integration.  • Created Server APEX Controller for Salesforce Lightening Experience.  • Developed UI/UX changes for better user interface using Salesforce Lightening Design system  • Followed Agile Scrum methodology that included iterative application development, weekly Sprints and stand up meetings.  • Involved in Salesforce.com Application Setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization.  • Responsible for performing administrative functions in Salesforce CRM like creation and modification of pick lists and lookup fields.  • Developed and configured various Custom Reports and Report Folders for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  • Worked on various salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Cases, Opportunities, Products, Opportunity Line Items, Leads, Campaigns, Reports and Dashboards  • Designed the solutions for business and technical requirements by customizing various standard objects of SalesForce.com (SFDC)  • Designed, and deployed the Custom objects, Custom tabs, Entity-Relationship data model, validation rules, Workflow Rules, Auto-Response Rules, Page layouts, Components, Visual Force Pages to suit to the needs of the application.  • Defined lookup and master-detail relationships on the objects and created junction objects to establish connectivity among objects.  • Developed and configured various Reports and Report Folders for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  • Designed, and developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes, extensions and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Designed various Webpages in Visual Force for capturing various customer enquiries and Implemented logic for migrating cases to different queues based on the type of customer enquiry.  • Customized page layouts for Opportunity, Contacts, and Accounts depending upon user roles, and groups.  • Implemented the requirements on Salesforce.com platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse.  • Implemented web based case management automation - Web-to-Case and Email-to-Case (on Case Object) to track and solve customer's issues.  • Used SOQL with consideration to Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Involved in data mapping and migration of data from legacy systems to SalesForce.com Objects and fields.  • Used Data Loader for insert, update, and bulk import or export of data from Salesforce.com objects. Used it to read, extract, and load data from comma separated values (CSV) files.  • Experience in using meta-data migration tools like Data Wizard, Data Loader and jitterbit.    Environment: Eclipse IDE, Controllers, Visual Force Pages, Data Loader, Workflows, Triggers, Web Services API, SAP, Salesforce CPQ, Force.com Explorer, Lightening, Soap, REST, Marketing cloud Admin, Marketing cloud Integration, Agile Development Methodology. Salesforce Developer ICICI Lombard January 2013 to May 2014 Description:    Responsibilities:  • Engaged with the sales team and business analysts to gather business and user requirements.  • Provide solution design to implement the requested functionality in salesforce.  • Configure salesforce objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Opportunities, Reports and Dashboards.  • Used Tabular, Summary and Matrix reports to create Standard reports and Custom reports.  • Designed and modified Approval Processes and created Approval steps which used email alerts and field updates.  • Worked with Approval processes that used E-Mail Approval Steps.  • Created Many-to-Many relationships and created Junction objects to implement Roll-up Summary fields to aggregate data from child records on the parent.  • Designed Validation Rules along with Roll-Up Summary Fields to maintain data quantity and data consistency.  • Developed and deployed workflows, Reports, Approval Processes using salesforce.com platform.  • Developed reports, dashboards and processes to continuously monitor data quality and integrity.  • Created and used E-Mail Templates in HTML, Custom and Visualforce Format.  • Created Workflow Rules to automate Tasks, E-Mail Alerts, Field Updates, Time-Dependent actions.  • Created email templates and inbound e-mails using Visualforce for the clients and customers.  • Maintained data cleanliness and accuracy by adding custom validation rules, custom formulas, reports and dashboard.  • Developed Apex Classes, Controller and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Maintaining test coverage for all the classes and triggers and supporting deployment activities.  • Used Change Sets to deploy code from sandbox to sandbox and production environment.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, time triggered tasks, email alerts, field updates to implement business logic.  • Configured various Custom Reports and Report Folders for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  • Responsible for all the activities related to configuring Data Loader, uploading data in CSV files into salesforce.com, checking for the correctness of the data.    Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Force.com ide, Apex, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Pages, Data Loader, HTML, Inside sales telephonic plug-in, Doc E-sign, JavaScript, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, E-Mail Services, Security Controls, Sandbox data loading, Eclipse IDE Plug-in. Java Developer Capital IQ Ltd August 2011 to October 2012 Responsibilities:    • Designing and web development of User Interfaces using JSP, HTML, and CSS.  • Worked on Eclipse as the development environment CVS as version controller.  • Called Stored procedures in Oracle using callable statements in JDBC.  • Part of team in designing and developing application in n-tier fashion as per struts based MVC architecture.  • Developed the application using Servlets, Action Forms, JSP and Session Beans.  • Utilized various J2EE design patterns to develop the business modules based on the required functionality.  • Developed Shell Scripts for automating the closing doc process. Used JavaScript front end Validations.  • Developed session beans and entity Beans representing business logic abstractions.  • Used the Java Collections API extensively in the application.  • Designed prototypes for user web pages using Adobe Photoshop & Dreamweaver and provided backend functionality to the same using HTML & CSS  • Implemented Enterprise Java Beans (EJB) to interact with the database to insert, update, delete and retrieve values efficiently.  • Converted reusable services into Web-Services using which can be accessed across the enterprise.  • Responsible for Testing - unit testing and integration testing using JUNIT.  • Used Ant tool to build and deploy application on Tomcat Server.  • Tested application on various levels like integration and system testing by utilizing various methodologies.    Environment: Java, JSP, Oracle, Servlets, Apache Tomcat, Java Beans, JDBC, Java Script, HTML, CSS, API, EJB, JUNIT, Struts, Java Beans. Education Bachelor's Dharmsinh Desai University Skills ECLIPSE (6 years), APEX (6 years), LOADER (6 years), SALESFORCE.COM (6 years), FORCE.COM (5 years), XML, Javascript, Linux, Jquery, HTML Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages APEX, HTML, SOAP DHTML/JavaScript  Salesforce.com Technologies  Apex Language, Apex Trigger, Apex Scheduler, Batch Apex, Apex Class & Apex Web Service, Partner WSDL & Enterprise WSDL and Visualforce (Page, Component & Controllers), Apttus CPQ    Salesforce Tools  Eclipse, Force.com Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Force.com Explorer, Force.com Data Loader, Force.com Excel Connector, Custom Metadata Types, Dynamic Visualforce pages, Force.com Platform (Sandbox, and Production)    Web Technologies/Tools HTML, XHTML, DHTML, XML, XSLT, CSS, JSON, Web services  Databases MySQL, MS SQL Server 2000/7, MS Access 7.0  Version Control Tools CVS, GIT and Jive