UI/ Java developer (Full Stack Developer) UI/<span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> (Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span>) UI/ Java developer (Full Stack Developer) - General Electric (Digital) San Ramon, CA • Java Developer with 6 years of experience in Java SE, Java EE platforms with complete experience of Software development life cycle with strong expertise in software analysis, design, development and implementation of Java/J2EE applications.  • Experience in developing UI applications using AngularJS, PolymerJS, ReactJS NodeJS, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS3, and Photoshop.  • Experience on working with CSS Backgrounds, CSS Layouts, CSS Positioning, CSS Animations, CSS Text, CSS Borders, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Classes and Pseudo Elements.  • Experience in developing Front End components (UI) using JSP, JSF (Primefaces), JSTL, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, HTML5, HTML, DHTML, JSON, CSS3 for projects based on java platform.  • Experienced in designing the Web pages that are more user-interactive using jQuery plugins for Drag and Drop, AutoComplete, Highcharts AJAX, JSON, AngularJS, Bootstrap and JavaScript.  • Experience applying the latest development approaches including MVC, event-driven applications using Ajax, Object Oriented (OO) Java Script, Json, and XML.  • Proficient with Agile, Scrum and Waterfall software development processes.  • Proficient with designing and developing high performance applications by leveraging Concurrent programming/Multi-Threading and Data Structures.  • Strong experience with Struts, Spring framework implementing modules: Spring MVC, Spring boot, Spring IoC, Spring AOP, Spring Security and Spring Data.  • Experienced in developing middleware components using Spring and EJB.  • Strong development experience in all layers of application of Service layer, Data layer, Controller, Web Services and front-end.  • Proficient with development of RestfulWeb Services using JAX-RS and Jersey framework for exchange of JSON and XML representations.  • Proficient with development of Data Layers components using JPA annotations, Hibernate and JDBC.  • Experience with developing software using design patterns: Factory, Singleton, Business Delegate, Adaptor, and Iterator.  • Good understanding of XML related technologies using JAXB, STAX, SAX, DOM API, XSL (XSLT), and XPath.  • Expertise in using Jenkins for different projects with different plugins for SCM, Unit testing, code analysis, release, deployments.  • Experience with MySQL and Oracle RDBMS concepts and developing SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, Views and Triggers.  • Expert in NoSQL databases HBase, Mongo DB, Cassandra and relational data modeling, object-relational integration (ORM), physical design/tuning. Experience using Tomcat container, WebSphere Application Server, and Jboss Servers.  • Proficient with software configuration / change control process and tools like Subversion (SVN), GIT, CVS, Clear Case, ClearQuest, Bugzilla and Jira.  • Expertise using rapid application development tools like Eclipse, My Eclipse, Net Beans and IntelliJ. Initiative in providing value addition solution to enhance business and infrastructure capabilities.  • Experienced in generating logging by Log4j to identify the errors in production test environment and experienced in Ant Tool.  • Good Experience in ServiceMix ESB, Apache Camel, Apache CXF, Apache ActiveMQ.  • Used Continuous delivery / Continuous Integration (CD/CI) tools Docker, Jenkins to deploy this application to AWS  • Strong experience in automating web application testing using selenium webdriver with frame works. Writing test cases using element locators, Cucumber, webdriver methods, java programming in feature and TestNG annotations and Junit annotations.  • Experience in Atlassian tools such as JIRA and Confluence to manage and keep track on progress of project.  • Efficient team member with excellent work/time management skills, excellent leadership, communication and interpersonal skills and ability to work under strict deadlines. Work Experience UI/ Java developer (Full Stack Developer) General Electric (Digital) - San Ramon, CA August 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile Methodology with daily Scrums, Pair- programming and Mob-programming. Prepared the Technical Specs, Design documentations.  • Good knowledge of latest version of object oriented JavaScript Libraries like PolymerJs, AngularJs, Bootstrap, plygrid framework.  • Extensively worked on Predix UI cloud based platform (PaaS) . Predix UI makes it easy to create powerful, user-friendly web applications with components that just work.  • Worked on Predix UI components as a framework agnostic - to fit into existing JavaScript web applications (Angular), which serve as a starting point for a new project.  • Responsible for Creating custom, general use modules and components which extend the elements and modules of core AngularJs, PolymerJs.  • Responsible for validating user actions on the client side and provided responsive feedback using PolymerJS, AngularJS, and Predix components.  • Applied advanced HTML, JavaScript, and CSS to deliver cutting-edge user interfaces using material design components in PolymerJs.  • Extensively worked with XML files as the Source and Target, used transformations like XML Generator and XML Parser to transform XML files and used XPath to compute values (of various data types) from the content of an XML document.  • Used AngularJs for client side data binding and template based UI development.  • Worked on AngularJS two-way data binding between DOM and model, dependency injection using factories and services.  • Designed Responsive Web Design using Bootstrap and Plygrid framework.  • Development of REST APIs, hosted on Predix (Cloud foundry of GE), using Spring Boot Framework to expose  processed data to client side dashboards and implemented Web services using JSON.  • Extensively used Core Java collections, Generics, Exception handling, Design patterns for functionality, such as portfolio summary and user information also developed Services, Business Delegate, Pojo, Controller and DAO.  • Extensively Implemented Springboot, dependencyInjection (DI) and Aspect Oriented programming (AOP) features along with hibernate.  • Wrote HibernateCriteria, HibernateNamed queries for data retrievals and have performed the ORM mappings to map java entities to database tables.  • Configured Spring declarative transactionmanager and implemented transaction management in DAO layer.  • Developed RESTful web services that support JSON for other developers to access to speed up development within the GE network using Spring MVC, Spring Web Services, JSON, Log4J, RESTful, PostgreSql.  • Involved in using PostgreSQL to store data securely, and to allow for retrieval at the request of the application.  • Extensively worked on Jenkins for continuous integration and for End to End automation for all build and deployments.  • Involved in creation of an automated build environment for application using Jenkins, Maven, and deployed JAR, WAR, EAR files.  • Deployed the microservice in Dev space of pivotal cloud foundry and help dev ops team to deploy in higher environment.  • Involved in re-architecting monolithic architecture service in to micro services based architecture using spring boot and pivotal cloud foundry.  • Focused on Test Driven Development (TDD) thereby creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality before writing the actual functionality.  • Wrote Junit test cases to test the Spring DAO layer and created Batch Services to generate reports using Spring Batch and used Jerkins for Behavior Driven Development (BDD) also developed automated unit test cases using Protractor.  • Used Bower for managing UI dependencies in the project using bower.json file and running command's like bower install.  • Developed MAVEN scripts to build and deploy the application onto Predix Application Server and ran UNIX shell scripts and implemented auto deployment process.    Environment: Java 1.8, Predix, PolymerJs, AngularJS, Spring, Hibernate, POJO, XML, REST, Junit, Protractor, Jenkins, Maven, Unix, Responsive Web Design, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap, Agile Scrum, cloud foundry, XML, Postman, JSON, GIT, Web Storm IDE tool. UI/ Java developer (Full Stack Developer) Zuora Inc - Foster City, CA January 2015 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developing/supporting critical Java web applications related to the Engineering Change Management process in agile environment.  • Involved in functional requirement discussions with business team and converted the functional requirements to technical requirements.  • Extensively used Java best practices and implemented several Core design patterns like Singleton, Data Access Object (DAO), and Business Delegate etc.  • Responsible for development of the application using JSF framework, Java Web Services (REST) as Businesslayer, SQL and Hibernate ORM tool in the data access layer.  • Developed Apache camel routes, JMS endpoints and used free marker to customize service responses.  • Developed the application using Spring MVC and Maven. Used complete annotation approach for the Spring application development and leverage Spring profiling development.  • Wrote data Components for ERIC application, wrote, and called Stored Procedures using Java, HQL, and Hibernate.  • Implemented JSF Converters to handle formatting and Localization and configured the faces-config.xml to create a web application navigation rule.  • Used Java Architecture for XML Binding (JAXB) for marshaling and un-marshaling java objects and XML.  • Used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database and used HibernateQueryLanguage (HQL) to query the database for complex data.  • Used React Redux architecture to create the data layers in the application and to bring the Model View Controller architecture for the application.  • Developed REST service calls from REACT to backend using React-thunk and took part in developing actions, reducers and defined initial state.  • Worked closely with design team and provided rapid prototypes using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, ReactJS.  • Worked with ReactJS to create a UI and fetch data from the Github API.  • Involved with building blocks to animations and routing using React add-ons.  • Designed the application using UML. Class Diagrams, Sequence diagrams and State diagrams were developed.  • Created the responsive UI components using React/Redux and to dispatch events to the store.  • Involved in the development of the UI using HTML5, Bootstrap, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery.  • Used CSS3 for describing the presentation of Web pages, including colors, layout, and fonts. Validations for the Client Side were done using JavaScript.  • Developed server-side software modules and client-side user interface components deployed entirely in Compute Cloud of Amazon web Services (AWS)  • Write test cases for unit, integration, and functional tests, run automatically by Jenkins in the builds triggered by each push to SVN Repository. Configured Log4J for logging.    Environment: Java, Spring MVC, Hibernate, ReactJS, REST, Redux, JMS, JSON, JAXB, MySQl, Jenkins, Log4J, SASS, HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3, jQuery, Ajax, Bootstrap, Agile, TFS, SVN, AWS. UI/ Java Developer (Full Stack Developer) Majesco, NJ January 2014 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile methodology maintained over JIRA, involved in sprint planning and requirements gathering from Users.  • Used Angular UI router to create routes for various views and subviews, Implemented code according to coding standards and Created AngularJS Controller Which Isolate scopes perform operations.  • Developed User Interface satisfying business requirements using AngularJS, Javascript, Jquery, Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), and HTML and Bootstrap.  • Involved in development of User Interface using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, and jQuery, AJAX, JSON  • Integrated the Java code (API) in JSP pages and responsible for setting up AngularJS framework for UI development. Developed html views with HTML5, CSS3, bootstrap and AngularJS.  • Used AJAX frameworks like JQuery, JSON to develop rich GUIs and also involved in performance tuning the website.  • Worked one-on-one with client to develop layout, color scheme for his website and implemented it into a final interface design with the HTML5/CSS3 & JavaScript using Dreamweaver.  • Developed different JQuery component in MVC micro architecture framework which internally use various design pattern such as singleton, command, delegate, etc.  • Used JavaScript DOM manipulation and JavaScript event to generate the data result in UI.  • Developed middleware components using EJB's, used container manager transactions for transaction management and involved in mapping JPA entities to database tables.  • Used ng-boiler-plate template to setup the AngularJS modular project with bower, grunt, less and jasmine.  • Developed angular unit test cases to test angular components using Mocha, Chai, Protractor, Karma.  • Used Istanbul to check the code coverage for angularjs tests in the application.  • Used brackets/webstorm IDE's to perform the front end web development and configured maven to run the Karma unit test cases.  • Configured different pipelines in Jenkins and using plugins like Git, Gradle, Ant, Sonar, AWS, Puppet, Chef etc.,  • Configuring Jenkins to build the jobs and deploy the EAR to IBMWebSphere Application Server.  • Established a continuous integration (CI) and standers with Jenkins, used Jenkins AWS CodeDeploy plugin to deploy onto an AWS environment  • Implemented angular form validations and used bootstrap to show error, warning and info messages  • Created custom angular filters to filter the data based on user selection in bootstrap dropdowns.  • Created Junit test cases to test the codes and validate the release. Tested application at local severs to make sure codes are working as per expected results.  • Responsible for creating Jasper reports to produce pdf and word based reports  • Responsible for retrieving data from various sources such as Oracle and XML documents. Worked in the Web services Environment developing the service methods.  • Creating, identifying and exposing system as Web Services and defining architecture based on service oriented Architecture (SOA)  • Used XML Spy for XML editing, generating XML schemas and code generation in Java according to the data model defined in the XML Schema.  • Fixed defects and participated in code review sessions.    Environment: Java 1.6, Spring mvc, EXT-JS, Spring, JMS, Mongo-db, Hibernate, Node-JS, Jquery UI, Jersey, Eclipse, UML, HTML, REST, Java Script, XML, Jboss 6, Log4j, Mysql, JNDI, JUNIT, Maven, log4j, SVN. Java Developer Royal Bank of Canada, NY May 2012 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • Actively participated in requirements gathering, analysis, design, and testing phases.  • Designed use case diagrams, class diagrams, and sequence diagrams as a part of Design Phase using Rational Rose.  • Developed the entire application implementing MVC Architecture integrating JSF with Hibernate and spring frameworks.  • Designed User Interface using Java Server Faces (JSF), Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), and XML.  • Developed the Enterprise Java Beans (Stateless Session beans) to handle different transactions such as online funds transfer, bill payments to the service providers.  • Developed deployment descriptors for the EJB have to deploy on Web Sphere Application Server.  • Implemented Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using JMS for sending and receiving messages while creating web services.  • Developed Web Services for data transfer from client to server and vice versa using Apache Axis, SOAP, WSDL, and UDDI.  • Extensively worked on MQ Series using point-point, publisher/subscriber messaging Domains for implementing Exchange of information through Messages.  • Developed XML documents and generated XSL files for Payment Transaction and Reserve Transaction systems.  • Implemented various J2EE Design patterns like Singleton, Service Locator, Business Delegate, DAO, Transfer Object, and SOA.  • Worked on AJAX to develop an interactive Web Application and JavaScript for Data Validations. Used Subversion to implement version control System.  • Build ANT Script for the application and used Log4J for debugging. Used JUnit Framework for the unit testing of all the java classes.  • Worked in ORM mapping using Hibernate 3 in accessing Oracle 10g database.  • Worked in Enterprise design patterns including Abstract factory pattern, Singleton, DAO (Data access object), Data Transfer object (DTO), Service locator.  • Worked in Spring AOP Interceptors in logging and auditing.  • Worked in development of applications using Java 6 and used multithreading for group post enrollment validation.  • Worked in adoption of Agile methodology by working on continuous iteration, automated build and deployment using Ant, Pair programming, Test driven development (TDD) methodology and automated testing using JUnit.  • Worked in implementation of UNIX shell scripts for file transfer and processing.  • Worked in RDBMS implementation using SQL, PLSQL on Oracle 10g database.    Environment: Java 1.5, JSF 1.2, Richfaces 3.3, JSP, JSTL, Spring, JMS, JPA, Jquery, Maven Eclipse, UML, HTML, Java Script, XML, Websphere 6, Log4j, Oracle (SQL, PLSQL), JNDI, JUNIT, Maven, log4j, SVN Java Developer Bitranet - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN February 2010 to April 2012 Responsibilities:  • Developed the business domain layer using Java, J2EE, JDBC and used DAO, Transfer Objects, Singleton, Abstract Factory, Factory, State, Command and Front Controller design patterns  • Implemented Struts framework in the presentation tier for all the essential control flow, business level validations and for communicating with the business layer  • Developed Struts framework Action Servlets classes for Controller and developed Form Beans for transferring data between Action class and the View Layer  • Developed the front end UI using JSP, HTML, JavaScript, CSS  • Implemented Struts Validators framework to validate the data  • Developed Ant (build.xml) targets for build and deployments on WebSphere Application Server 5.0  • Developed Stored Procedures in the Oracle 9i database.  • Performed impact analysis on the dependency projects of OneSource Project  • Involved in writing unit test plans and developing test cases using Junit, Used Configuration Management and Version Control tool CVS.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection.  • Used HQL and SQL for fetching and storing data in databases. Created and updated Hibernate queries.  • Developed Data Access objects using JDBC API.  • Developed Used JDBC API and HQL (Hibernate Query Language) to query the Database System and used JDBC Thin Driver to connect to the database  • Responsible for coding SQL Statements and Stored procedures for back end communication using JDBC.  • Worked on financial transactions like deposits, withdrawals and transfer, debit, and visa or bills payments. Performed a thorough unit testing and resolved several data related issues before migration to production.  • Implemented web services with Apache Axis.  • Designed and Developed Stored Procedures, Triggers in Oracle to cater the needs for the entire application. Developed complex SQL queries for extracting data from the database.    Environment: Java 1.5, JSF 1.2, Richfaces 3.3, J2EE, CSS, Java Script, JSP, JSTL, Spring, JMS, JPA, Jquery, Eclipse, Websphere 6, UML, HTML, Java Script, XML, Log4j, Oracle, , log4j, JNDI, JDBC, JUNIT, Maven Education Bachelors in Engineering in Engineering JNTU Hyderabad - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN Skills CSS (7 years), Design patterns (6 years), HTML (7 years), Java (7 years), XML (7 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages Java, J2EE, C.  Platforms Windows 98/NT/2000, windows XP, windows 7, Linux  J2SE / J2EE Technologies Java, J2EE, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, Java Beans, EJB, JPA, REST  Frameworks JSF, Struts, Spring, Hibernate  Design Patterns  MVC, IOC, Session Façade, Service Locator, Data Access Object, Data Transfer Object/ Value Object, Business Delegate, Singleton.    Web Technologies HTML, HTML5, DHTML, XML, CSS, Java Script, JSF and AJAX  Version Control Tools CVS, SVN, GIT, Rational Clear Case  Web/Application Servers IBM Web Sphere 5.0/6.1/7.0, J2EE Server 1.6, Apache Tomcat 6.x/7.x and JBoss.  IDE / Tools RAD 6.0/7.1, WSAD 5.1, Eclipse 3.2, OS X Server  Databases Oracle 8i/9i/10g, MYSQL, PLSQL, SQL server, MongoDB, Cassandra