Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Hartford Financial Services Group, CA New York, NY • Java Programmer with 8+years of IT experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Deployment using Java-J2EE technologies in the areas of E-commerce, Banking, Insurance, Service Domain.  • Goal Driven, self-organized Developer with comprehensive understanding of various software development approaches such as Waterfall and Agile Methodologies  • Strong programming skills and development experience using Java, Spring, Hibernate, JSP, Servlets, Java Beans and JDBC.  • Good understanding of object-oriented design with knowledge & experience in data structures and algorithms.  • Hands-on experience in using J2EE frameworks: Spring, Spring MVC, Hibernate & Jersey.  • Quick-witted Competent with skillful ability in using Spring (Dependency Injection/Inversion of Control/ Aspect Oriented Programming) and Object Relational Mapping frameworks like Hibernate3.x/4.x with mapping of persistent classes and usage of HQL.  • Proficient in Spring Templates(Spring JDBC, Spring Hibernate, Spring Rest Templates)  • Expertise in Creating and Consuming Web Services, related technologies and tools: SOAP, Restful (Jersey & Spring REST), WSDL, UDDI.  • Experience in working with open source automated testing tools Selenium (Selenium Web Driver, Selenium IDE), Junitand Eclipse.  • Experience in testing web services using SOAPUI, Chrome API Tester and Postman tools.  • Experienced with frontend technologies like HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Multitalented Coderwithextensive programming capability using IDE's: Eclipse and OEPE  • Technically Savvywith far-reaching talents using multiple RDBMS products like Oracle, IBM DB2, and MySQL  • Expertise using Core J2EE patterns like MVC, Business Delegate, Value Object, Session Facade, Service Locator, and Data Access Object  • Experience with unit testing using JUnit and Mockito frameworks  • Designed and developed Page Objects, Data Driven and Modular Driven automation frameworks from scratch using Selenium WebDriver, JAVA, Junit.  • Deploying the J2EE applications to Application Servers using Maven & Shell Scripts for creating Build Scripts.  • Good knowledge in version control systemtools like SVN, GIT  • Supported the application in production and used SPLUNK to get the application logs to handle the incidents  • Experience in working in an Onsite/Offshore delivery model.  • Proactive and well organized with effective time management skills.  • Flexible and easy adaptation to all kinds of work environment with good team/independent management for best quality end results with emphasis on performance optimization. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Hartford Financial Services Group, CA January 2018 to Present Description: Hartford Financials is one of the largest investment and insurance companies in United States having various productslike investment products, life insurance, automobile and home-owners products etc. The system automates all the processes of Policy, Premium and Product information for this Corporation. The system comprises of four significant modules Policy/Premiums, Payments, Maturity and Risk Mgmt. Personal and Family Life Insurance. Major functionalities include Policy Information, introduction of new policies, premium calculations, criteria for applying diff policies, Policy Advisor Utility, premium payments, payment analysis, and maturity of policies, Bonus/Interest calculations, TDS calculations, claims tracking, fraud detection, and payment settlements for authorized claims    Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile methodology and SCRUM meetings to track, operations.  • Developed sequence diagrams depicting method interactions.  • Involved in all the phases of SDLC including Requirements Collection, Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications, Development and Customization of the Application.  • Designed and developed Application based on Spring Framework, Spring MVC, Spring Templates, Hibernate, Web Services using Jersey Frame works.  • Used Spring Core for concept Inversion of control (IOC) implemented using dependency injection.  • Developed Spring Controllers, Service Components, DAOs, Web Services and UI Integration for developingpresentation layer of the application.  • Hands on experience with data persistence using Hibernate and Spring Framework  • Developed UI using HTML, CSS and jQuery to display the data on the client side.  • Developed White box test cases using JUnit and Mockito frameworks and Configured Log4j Mechanism for complete project using xml files  • Used jQuery and AJAX sent the request to server side and receive the response.  • Generated JUnit test cases for testing various Java components  • Involved in setting up Maven configuration and helping Continuous Integration (CI) Issues  • Tested applications and documented results and bugs including documentation of information useful in the  • debugging process.  • Worked with QA team during various testing phases and resolved defects.  • Involved in debugging the defects, code review and analysis of Performance issues.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services, RESTFUL, Jersey, HTML, DHTML, CSS, XML, jQuery, Mockito, MAVEN, Oracle, Design Patterns, UNIX, Tomcat, SQL Server, Oracle, Windows, Linux Sr. Java Developer FORD MOTOR COMPANY - Dearborn, MI June 2016 to December 2017 Description: This project involves in developing a J2EE based framework to support dynamic report creation from various distributed databases. The framework supports dynamic PDF report generation using iText, an open source PDF generation library. The framework facilitates new report formats and databases by using xml configuration files.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the analysis, design, and development and testing phases of application.  • Used Dependency Injection feature of Spring framework for rapid development and ease of maintenance.  • Developed the DAO layer for the application using Spring and Hibernate Template support.  • Implemented Transactions using Spring Hibernate Manager framework.  • Used Spring MVC to bind web parameters to business logic.  • Maintained relationship between objects using Spring IOC.  • Have worked on Oracle for storing and retrieving the application data.  • Used Spring MVC Framework to construct the dynamic web pages  • Worked on JUnit and Mockito for testing and maintaining the system state  • Monitoring the application logs in different deployment environments.  • Effectively used Log4j framework to implement logging system for the project.  • Worked with DB team, Business Analysts, Project managers & users to analyze & implement requirements  • Responsible for sending the testing instructions/test cases to the testing team, to make sure the enhancements or new requirements changes/implementations are working properly.  • Writing SQL queries for necessary action on webpage as per the requirements.  • Fixing the application defects/bugs in quick turnaround time.    Environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring Templates, Hibernate, DAO, XML, JDBC, JavaScript, jQuery, Apache Tomcat, Eclipse, Jenkin, Maven, Oracle, jUnit , Log4j, Mockito, Web Services, Restful, Jersey, Agile, Linux Java/J2EE Developer DISNEY - Orlando, FL June 2015 to June 2016 Description:The Disney vacation club (DVC) Points system allows the DVC members to purchase points, manage and use those to stay at 13 Disney resorts. The DVC Points replacement project replaces the old AS400 point system to a new point system and support current DVC process with new system. The new system will maintain life cycle of the points for member as well as for developer account, store partial contract information, support booking of resorts from other applications with new point system. The project is SOAP based service with multiple operations provided for external systems to work on the Disney member points.The system has been developed using Java/ J2EE technologies using Spring, Hibernate, Web Services(SOAP and RESTFUL) on WebSphere Application Server. Oracle is used for maintaining the website information.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on various new enhancements on the system that involved requirements analysis, designing the solution, development and implementation.  • Designed and developed the application using Agile Methodology and followed Scrum, pair programming.  • Responsible for creating functional documents, technical documents, flow charts and data flow diagrams.  • Involved in designing and writing custom code for business, data access and UI layers using core Java.  • Created Spring Controllers and Integrated with Business Components and View Components  • Used Spring MVC, Hibernate, Web Services, SOAP, RESTFUL Technologies.  • Developed Spring and Hibernate data layer components for the application  • Integrated business layer using Hibernate with Spring DAO.  • Implemented caching techniques, wrote POJO classes for storing data and DAO's to retrieve data and the configuration of database using Hibernate.  • Developed Test Cases and Unit Tests for Functionality Testing using JUnit.  • Used Maven for building of application and deployed to WebSphere Application Server.  • Helped to deploy and resolve issues during deployment and Configured Maven, Shell Scripts. Used Jenkins for Continuous Integration (CI).  • Performed unit testing for the service classes and the DAO's using JUnit and assist users in the testing.  • Gave production support for the entire application including troubleshooting and fixing bugs.    Environment: Java, Agile, J2EE, JSP, JDBC, Java Beans, Spring DI, Spring MVC, Hibernate Templates, Hibernate, Web Services, SOAP, RESTFUL, JSON, XML, Maven, Continuous Integration, SVN, Log4j, JUnit, Oracle RDBMS, TOAD, Linux Software Engineer Master Card, MO May 2012 to June 2015 Description: Mastercard is a leading global payments technology company that operate mainly on payment processing. MasterCard is a network of banks. They provide service to the banks. Their systems process the transactions between point of sale and bank. Mastercard's products and solutions make everyday commerce activities such as shopping, traveling, running a business and managing finances easier, more secure and more efficient for everyone. There are many modules in the project like authorization, payments, statement generation, rewards    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis, Design and Development of new business requirements.  • Extensively worked with HTML, JSP's and Servlets to create dynamic web pages for new enhancements.  • Extensively worked with JavaScript for various front-end validations.  • Created Web services to interact with the MNP network Query Server.  • Was involved in peer reviews for the modules coded by other team members.  • Extensively worked on the analysis of defects and resolved the production issues(Production support)  • Configured log4j properties to roll the logs daily.  • Extensively worked with maven build script to build the application.  • Used Eclipse as the IDE and Clear Case for version controller  • Involved in Bug fixing and functionality enhancements (Clear Quest)  • Wrote complex SQL Queries to implement backend process.  • Involved in finding the RC (Root Cause) of the bugs/issues.  • Prepared the Status report every weekend and sending to Manager.  • Involved in preparing the release management.    Environment: J2EE, Java, JDBC, HTML, JavaScript, Servlets, Spring, Hibernate, JUnit, PL/SQL, Log4J, Eclipse, Oracle Application Server, MQ Series, SQL, UML,XML, Web logic, Maven 2.0, Oracle 10g and Production Support. Full Stack Developer SYNCHRONY FINANCIAL - Chicago, IL May 2010 to May 2012 Responsibilities    • Implemented Different Design patterns like singleton, factory and J2EE design patterns like Business delegate, session facade, Value object and DAO design patterns.  • Used Spring Framework's IOC Dependency Injection to inject Service Object using Service Locator Design Pattern into Action Classes.  • Developed WebPages using UI frameworks bootstrap, Angular JS.  • Created DHTML pages, used JavaScript for client-side validations and AJAX, AngularJS to create interactive front-end GUI.  • Managed and maintained Oracle and NoSQL databases in production domain.  • Designed and implemented a NoSQL based database and associated RESTful web service that persists high-volume user profile data for vertical teams.  • Extensive experience of Object Oriented JavaScript design pattern and JavaScript MVC Patterns Preferably Angular JS and React JS.  • Used Angular libraries like angular-UI-router, angular-resource to create the effective single page application and used angular-cookies to temporarily store the data used in this application.  • Used Struts tag libraries in the JSP pages.  • Developed a controllerServlet that dispatches request to appropriate Action Classes.  • Developed the application under J2EE Architecture using spring, Struts, Hibernate, Servlets, Web logic and JSP.  • Used Java Persistence API (JPA) and Hibernate for performing the Database Transactions.  • Used joinpoint and adviceSpring AOP modules for cross cutting concerns and IOC for dependency injection.  • Designed extensive additions to existing Java Web Application utilizing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) techniques.  • Extensively worked on Spring Bean wiring, Spring DAO and Spring AOPmodules.  • Designed Graphical User Interface (GUI) for various WebPages using AJAX, HTML, CSS, JSF, JQuery and JavaScript.  • Followed Agile Methodology and TDD (test driven development).  • Implemented SOA architecture with web services using SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and XML.  • Identified and resolved programming issues, Servlets and EJB s performance tuning opportunities.  • Used JMS API for asynchronous communication by putting the messages in the Message queue.  • Consumed Web Services (WSDL, SOAP, UDDI) from third party for authorizing payments to/from customers.  • Involved in Developing Web Application with Full Software Development life Cycle (SDLC) from Design to Deployment using agile methodologies.  • Involved in the analysis & design of the application using UML with Rational Rose MVC architecture is implemented by struts framework.  • Exposed Survey API to other applications in DOE using Apache Axis2.  • Page design and development are done using OracleBPM.  • Experienced in code review and represent as a team lead across all functionalities and used lambda expressions.  • Involved in implementing JQuery for providing interactive user interfaces.  • Written Test cases using JUnit to validate the application flows in different scenarios in the standalone application.  Environment JAVA, JSP, Servlet, EJB, Spring, JavaScript, Hibernate, UML ,JQuery, Struts, Design Patterns, HTML, CSS, JMS, XML, Eclipse, Apache, Oracle ECM, Struts, Webservice, SOAP, ILOG, Web2.0, OracleBPM, JSF, WSDL,Apache CXF, Apache Axis2, Apache Tomcat Server, SOA, PL/SQL, Oracle10g, UML, Weblogic, Junit. Education Bachelor's Skills J2EE (9 years), Java (9 years), JUnit (9 years), Oracle (9 years), Web Services (9 years)