Sr. Java Fullstack Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> Fullstack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Fullstack Developer - Voya Financials Hartford, CT * 7+ Years of experience in IT industry in various phases of software development life cycle with Analysis, Design, Development, Integration, Maintenance, Testing, and Production Support of Software Applications in client-server environment using Java/J2EE technologies.  * Expertise experience in estimations, analysis, design, development, testing, maintenance, and deployment of internet, e-commerce and client-server applications using Java, Servlets, JSP, Java Beans, JDBC, Spring, Hibernate, JavaScript, JUnit, Eclipse, Tomcat, Oracle, PL/SQL, HTML, DHTML, XML, XSL/XSLT, UML, Web services, Unix and Windows XP/98/2000.  * Good Knowledge of using IDE Tools like Eclipse, RSA, IBM WSAD, and My Eclipse, Rational Application Developer (RAD) for Java/J2EE application development.  * Hands on experience in JDBC, SQL, PL/SQL, Triggers and Stored procedures and views.  * Experience in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and Web Services (using XML, SOAP, AXIS2, UDDI, WSDL, JAX-RPC, JAX-WS)  * Strong front-end development skills using JSP, JSP Custom Tag Libraries, AJAX, HTML5, CSS3, DHTML, JavaScript, jQuery, DOM, Responsive Web Design, Bootstrap and experience in making WebPages cross browser compatible, single page web applications using AngularJS.  * Strong Database (RDBMS) development experience in writing queries, functions, stored procedures, triggers, and views in My SQL, Oracle, MS Access and DB2.  * Proficient in using various units testing framework such as JUnit, Http Unit, and knowledge of ANT and Log4j tools for logging and debugging purposes.  * Experience with Apache Tomcat Application Server, JBoss, Web Logic application servers and IBM Websphere Application Server.  * Hands-on experience in designing and development of Messaging Applications using Java Messaging Service (JMS) and websphere MQ.  * Wide experience in designing and developing enterprise and web applications using JSP, JPA, Servlets, JDBC, Spring, Hibernate and RESTWeb Services.  * Proficient in developing the front-end skills using scripting languages like HTML5, XML, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, JQuery, DOM, Angular JS and JQuery.  * Experience with Angular JS MVC Framework including authoring complex directives, services, controllers and filters working with animations, routing and states.  * Experience with design, development and deployment of SpringFramework based web applications with SpringMVC, IOC (Inversion of Control), Spring Batch and AOP (Aspect Oriented Programming)  * Strong experience in building Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) based Web services such as SOAP and REST using Apache Camel and JAX-RS.  * Good experience in Multithreading, Collections, Data Structures and algorithms.  * Experience in development of application communication through asynchronous message using JMS, Rabbit MQ process message in point-to-point scenarios.  * Experience in dealing with the databases of Oracle, MySQL, DB2, SQL Server and MongoDB.  * Experience in using CI/CD tools such as CVS, clear case, SVN, GIT and Jenkins.  * Extensive Experience in deploying Java/J2EE applications on Application Servers JBOSS, IBM Web Sphere and WebLogic and Tomcat Web Server.  * Strong experience working closely with Users, Business Analysts, Project Managers, and Developers, to understand requirements, business processes for testing and attended regular walkthroughs  * Experience in Test Driven Development (TDD) using testing automation and procedures using selenium web driver for the unit testing using Junit and TestNg.  * Experience working with big data technologies NoSQL, Hadoop, Elastic Search and AWS Cloud.  * Good exposure to the network security protocols like TCP/IP and Https.  * Extensive development experience on different IDE's like Eclipse, Intellij, Sublime and Brackets.  * Experience in dealing the database using CRUD, Joins and stored procedures operations of Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL.  * Excellent presentation skills, self-motivated, highly committed to responsibilities.  * On a personal note, Very dedicated, responsible, self-directed trouble-shooter who enjoys working with others sharing ideas and knowledge of the IT industry. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java Fullstack Developer Voya Financials - Hartford, CT March 2017 to Present Roles & Responsibilities:  * Worked on Agile Methodology that includes weekly meeting with business analysts and monthly sprint review with clients.  * Worked closely with various functional teams to ensure that business requirements are translated to technology requirements and subsequently drive the implementation of software (using scrum) from design through successful deployment.  * Used RAD IDE for development of application.  * Configured Application and Integrated Server connections for SOA suite.  * Implemented JSF in Presentation layer programming using JavaScript, AJAX Development.  * Implemented RESTful web services (JAX-RS) using technologies such as JSON, SOAP, and XML to communicate between the applications.  * Developed an AngularJS workflow manager leveraging Angular-UI's state router for flexible configuration and management of multi-step user input flows.  * Designed the responsive front-end screens using Angular 2, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Typescript, jQuery and Bootstrap.  * Created various Angular 2 services, modules, pipes, attribute directives and worked with both template and data driven forms.  * Took part in setting up the routing configuration using Angular 2/4 UI router for various views and sub views and Angular CLI with Web Pack to perform builds and creating production ready code for deployment.  * Developed the User Interface Screens for presentation using Angular-JS, Ajax, Bootstrap, Java Script and HTML.  * Worked on Components, Directives, Services, Forms, Http Access, Authentication, optimizing an internal application using Angular 2 with Modules and Offline Compilation.  * Implemented features such as routing, data binding, data updates without a page refresh using Angular 2.  * Used Angular 2 Http services for asynchronous validations for the input fields of the forms with the data existed in the database.  * Using SpringBoot which is radically faster in building MicroServices and develop Spring based application with very less configuration.  * Developed SOAP based WebServices of type JAX-WS and tested using the open source tool SOAP UI.  * Implemented IOC (Dependency Injection) and AOP features in various aspects of Spring Framework.  * Implemented a web service to interact with the database using Apache Axis2 (SOAP over HTTP)  * Extensively used Hibernate and Spring-MVC in data access layer to access and update information from DB2 database and have written HQL, Named and Native queries.  * Developed business components using Spring boot, IOC, AOP, Spring annotations and created user detail service for authentication and access control using Spring LDAP and Spring Security.  * Implemented DAO using Spring - Hibernate ORM and mapped using Hibernate Annotations.  * Involved in writing code to transform XML documents using JAXP (SAX and DOM Parsers)  * Developed the Enterprise Java Beans (Stateless Session beans) to handle different transactions such as online account, bill payments to the service providers in a payments processing domain.  * Used and modified build.xml files and enhanced the Ant Process. Used JBoss as application server.  * Successfully deployed the application on the JBoss server.  * Used Spring declarative transaction management and Spring Batch and scheduling for backend data processing.  * Developed REST services using Spring and Jersey based JAX-RS implementation.  * Secured the REST services using Spring Security and OAUTH framework and created documented REST services using Swagger and Jersey.  * Developed automated test cases using TestNg and Junit.  * Planned and programmed a work queue system on a NodeJs Server with RabbitMQ. It uses express to create a REST API allowing users to create jobs and retrieve data from Mongo-DB.  * Consumed messages in the form of JSON and persisted them with NOSQL database MongoDB.  * Assisted in Customer interaction, User Training and Providing Production Support.  * Implemented continuous deployment system with Jenkins, AWS: CodeDeploy, Ops Works, and Packer for deployment of Java Applications.  * Implemented Web Service Alarm and Event API's which gets the data from the Back-End objects.  * Used IBM Rational Clear Case as version control tool for maintaining source code and project documents.  * Wrote build and deployment scripts using Maven and Unix Shell scripts.  Environment: J2EE Technologies, Ant, Agile, JSF, JQuery, Eclipse, JUnit, TestNG Spring, Springboot, AngularJS, Angular2/4, Microservices, JDBC, XML, Ajax, Unix Shell Scripts, JSON, Apache Axis2, SOA, Hibernate, DB2, SOAP, JBoss, MyBatis, RESTful (JAX-RS), JavaScript, Clear case, Soap UI, and Maven. Sr. Fullstack Java Developer EFI - Fremont, CA October 2015 to February 2017 Roles & Responsibilities:  * Designed, Developed & Deployed server-side common utilities for the application and the front-end dynamic web pages using Servlets, JSP, JavaScript, Angular JS, jQuery, HTML5/DHTML and CSS3.  * Extensively working on business, front end and persistence tier using the JSP, Servlets, Spring Boot, and JSON.  * Involved in the development of the application refactoring the existing code and Writing the new code.  * Documented the Use Cases, Class Diagrams, and Sequence Diagrams using Rational Rose.  * Implemented Model View Controller (MVC) architecture using Spring framework at the Web tier level to isolate each layer of the application to avoid the complexity of integration and easy maintenance.  * Created Action Class which routes submittals to appropriate Enterprise Java Beans components and render retrieved information.  * Developed user interface using Struts, JavaScript, CSS and HTML.  * Developed various EJB components to fulfill the business functionality.  * Developed Session Beans to process requests from the user and used the Hibernate 3.0 framework to retrieve data and client information.  * Used Web Services and SAX XML parsers and used SOAP for sending and receiving data from different applications.  * Developed REST web services using Spring boot, Hibernate, Tomcat and took part in deploying the backend to AWS.  * Developed RESTful and SOAP style Web Services layer to interface with MySQL Database.  * Developed application service components and configured beans using Spring IOC, creation of Hibernate mapping files and generation of database schema.  * Developed Restful web services using JAX-RS and used DELETE, PUT, POST, GET HTTP methods in Spring 3.0 and OSGI integrated environment.  * Developed Message Driven Beans to use the JMS Queue to communicate between the current and the legacy systems.  * Used Java/J2EE Design Patterns like Factory Pattern, Session Facade, and Service Locator in the project which facilitates clean distribution of roles and responsibilities across various layers of processing.  * Involved in developing various reusable Helper and Utility classes using Core Java, which are being used across all the modules of the application.  * Implemented version controlling using SVN and used Jenkins for continuous integration. Wrote build & deployment scripts using Ant, Maven on UNIX environment.  * Using Jira for bug tracking, issue tracking and Project Management functions.  * Used iText pdf library for generating pdf in web application.  * Using Jenkins for continuous integration service for development.  * Used Log4J for logging and debugging and used JUnit extensively for testing.  * Used IBM WebSphere 8.0 Application Server for deploying various components of application.  * Used Git for Version Control.    Environment: J2EE, IBM WebSphere 8.0, Spring, JPA, XML, HTML, JNDI, JDBC, AWS, AngularJS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Servlet, Struts 2, springboot, Web Services (SOAP), RESTful, Git, JSTL, OSGI, Core Java, Log4J, JUnit, EJB, Hibernate, PL/SQL, MySQL, Eclipse Indigo/June, and Windows XP. Java/J2EE Developer Charles Schwab - Chicago, IL September 2014 to October 2015 Roles & Responsibilities:  * Worked on all phases of agile software developing methodology for developing application.  * Used one of the agile processing techniques called pair programming for writing efficient and maintainable code.  * Interaction and meetings with Business Managers and Subject matter experts to articulate system requirements.  * Analysis and creation of Design documents for various components involved.  * Frequent interaction with the Metric Stream team for understanding their core business functionalities and coordination for better integration.  * Analyzed and designed application using various object oriented programming features like encapsulation, inheritance, and polymorphism.  * Worked on UML diagrams like Class and sequence Diagram to communicate design to be implemented in developing application with MS Visio.  * Used Struts Framework for implementing (Model View Controller) MVC design pattern to develop the web portal.  * Used Apache Log4J logging API to log errors and messages.  * Used various APIs and technologies like JSP to develop the UI and Servlet to implement the server side tasks.  * Used Hibernate API to provide database mapping and connection to Db2 database.  * Developed Interfaces using JSP, based on the Users, Roles and Permissions. Screen options were displayed on User permissions. This was coded using Custom Tags in JSP using Tag Libraries.  * Used Singleton, Session Bean, Data Value Objects, and Data Access Objects Design Patterns in interacting between presentation, service and database components.  * Used HTML semantics, HTML Objects, Cascading Style Sheets, Java scripts for designing web pages.  * Used JDBC API for connecting and interacting with oracle 10g database.  * Created solely a Standalone Application using JDBC to retrieve data from database and File reader and File writer to transfer the data into CSC file.  * Used SQL to retrieve data from the DB2 database to make a report.  * Built and tested application on Apache Tomcat webserver.  * Developed Junit test cases for unit testing java classes and webservice using Eclipse IDE.  * Used HP Quality Center to track the bugs in the application.  * Used Apache Maven Tool to put the whole application in on JAR and sent it to deployment team.    Environment: JAVA 7/ J2EE, Apache Tomcat webserver, DB2, Eclipse IDE, JavaScript, JSP, Servlet, Struts Hibernate, XML, HTML, SQL, JDBC, QC, Apache Maven, Ms Visio, JUnit, Log4j. Java Engineer Ericsson - Plano, TX January 2013 to August 2014 Roles & Responsibilities  * Creation of Technical/Functional specifications based on the Requirement Elicitation from client.  * Used OO techniques such as UML methodology use cases, sequence diagrams and activity diagrams and developed class diagrams using Rational Rose.  * Developed the User Interface Screens for presentation logic using JavaScript, HTML, JSP, CSS, and AJAX.  * Developed JSP pages and Action Servlets for HTML generation and for session management.  * Designed and implemented business logic with Spring MVC framework with RESTful Web Services for applications.  * Used IOC (Inversion of Control) Pattern and Dependency Injection of Spring framework for wiring and managing business objects.  * Designed and Developed Session Beans necessary for various functionalities.  * Designed and developed DAO's to implement the business logic.  * Coded different action classes in struts responsible for maintaining deployment descriptors like struts-config, ejb-jar and web.xml using XML.  * Developed authentication and authorization classes and manage it in the front controller for all the users per their entitlements.  * Configured the XML files for Hibernate and applied its Object Relational Mapping ORM to enable the data transactions between POJO and Oracle Database using caching on Session Factory as well as caching on query.  * Used XML to transfer the application data between client and server. In server-side Servlets is used to construct and parse the data in XML format and in client-side Java is used.  * Created logical and physical data models putting to practice, concepts of normalization and RDBMS.  * Log4J was used for logging and to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  * Involved in deployment of the Application on Web Sphere Application Server.  * Used SVN for project management and version management.  * Involved in Unit integration, bug fixing, and acceptance testing with test cases.    Environment: CoreJava, J2EE, JSP, Struts, Servlets, Spring, Hibernate, JDBC, Oracle 8i, AJAX, XML, ANT, Junit, CVS, Maven and JBossApplicationServer. Software Engineer Microchip Technologies September 2011 to November 2012 Roles & Responsibilities  * Used agile methodology for developing the application.  * Developed using new features of Java 1.5 like Annotations, Generics, enhanced for loop and Enums.  * Developed various generic JavaScript functions used for validations.  * Developed screens using JSP, JavaScript, HTML and CSS.  * Developed Web Services clients to consume those Web Services as well other enterprise wide Web Services.  * Created DDL and DML SQL scripts for creation of database objects.  * Created logical and physical data models putting to practice, concepts of normalization and RDBMS.  * Created and injected Spring services, Spring controllers and DAOs to achieve dependencyinjectionand to wire objects of business classes.  * Used Core JavaDesign Patterns like Singleton, Factory, MVC, Intercepting Filter, Front Controller, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Session Facade and DAO.  * Designed and implemented Struts (MVC Paradigm) components such as Action Mapping, Action class, Dispatch action class, Action Form bean, and a form set for validation and used JavaBeans to return dynamic information.  * Used Spring Inheritance to develop beans from already developed parent beans.  * Used JSF framework in developing user interfaces using JSF UI Components.  * Worked in all the modules of the application which involved front-end presentation logic developed using Tiles, JSP, JSTL and java script, XML Business objects developed using POJOs and data access layer using Hibernate.  * Involved in configuring Hibernate mapping files and POJO objects.  * Involved in writing Thread Safe blocks for multithread access to make valid transactions.  * Exposed the Web Services to the client applications by sharing the WSDL's.  * Database development required creation of new tables, PL/SQL stored procedures, functions, views, indexes and constraints, triggers and required SQL tuning to reduce the response time in the application.    Environment: Spring, Hibernate, PL/SQL, HTML, CSS, JSP, JavaScript, POJO, DAO, MVC, JST, XML, JSF, Java 1.5, JavaBeans, Singleton, Intercepting Filter. Education Bachelors in Information Technology ACHARYA NAGARJUNA UNIVERSITY Skills JAVA (7 years), JAVASCRIPT (7 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (7 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (7 years), MVC (7 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  J2EE Technologies JDBC, Servlets, EJB, JSTL, JPA, JMS, JSP, Servlets, JNDI, JDBC, Java Beans, SOAP, REST, AJAX, CSS.  Application Servers JBoss, Apache Tomcat, IBM Websphere, Weblogic  Tools/Utilities Log4j, Jenkins, Ant, SOAP UI and Junit  Development IDE Eclipse, Net Beans, IntelliJ and IBM's RAD  Modeling OOAD with Rational Rose, ORM and UML  Web Technologies JavaScript, Struts, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Ajax, XML, jQuery HTML4/5, SOAP.  Frameworks MVC, Hibernate, Spring, Bootstrap, NodeJs and AngularJS, Angular2.0, Angular 4.  Databases Oracle, MySQL  Services REST, JSON, SOA architecture, RESTFUL/SOAP, Microservices, Axis 2, Apache CXF  IDE's Eclipse, MyEclipse, RAD, WSAD, RSA.  Testing Tools JUnit  J2EE Design Patterns  Singleton, Factory Method, Adapter, Façade, Decorator, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Front Controller, Session Façade, DAO, and MVC.    Languages Java 1.6/1.7/1.8, JavaScript, Unix Shell, SQL and PL/SQL    Operating Systems Windows, UNIX, and Linux.  Version Control Tools Maven, GIT, RationalClear Case, WinCVS and Sub Version (SVN)