Salesforce Administrator/ Developer Salesforce Administrator/<span class="hl">Developer</span> Salesforce Administrator/ Developer - Capital Group Irvine, CA • A Qualified IT Professional with 7+ years of experience in Software Development that includes 4 years of experience in Salesforce.com CRM Platform as a Developer and Administrator and around 3 years of experience in JAVA.  • Experienced using Salesforce Lightning UI. Created Lightning Apps combining Lightning Design System, Lightning App Builder and Lightning Component features.  • Upgraded some Apps from Salesforce Classic to Lightning Experience to develop rich user interface and better interaction of pages.  • Worked on Salesforce1 Platform to build Mobile App by enabling Lightning Components to make Lightning Application mobile.  • Implemented Quote-to-Cash solution using APTTUS CPQ. Depth understanding of the APTTUS CPQ, APTTUS CLM data model and functionality.  • Leveraged APEX Controller to make a call for external requests to retrieve data from various API's and displayed them on to the component.  • Enabled Aura Framework, by adding Aura Attributes and Aura Handlers for Events to focus on Logic and Interactions in Lightning Applications.  • Minimized code in JavaScript Controllers by adding reusable functions in Helper Component. Updated the APEX Controller and Helper functions regularly making the Component Context Aware as per business requirement.  • Experienced in Service Cloud, Sales cloud, Chatter & App - exchange applications.  • Expertise in Visual Force, APEX Database, APEX Triggers and APEX Testing.Designed Visual Force pages with custom controllers and controller extensions to build custom user interfaces for mobile and web apps.  • Experience in APEX Programming by creating Custom Triggers and perform Asynchronous calls to implement the business logic as per the requirements.  • Efficient in monitoring Apex asynchronous processing using future methods, batch apex, controlling processes with queue able apex and scheduling jobs using apex scheduler.  • Used SOQL and SOSL Queries within Governor limits for data fetching and manipulation needs of the application.  • Experience in integrating external web systems with salesforce using REST and SOAP web services.  • Experienced in improving application performance by reducing retrieval times using Org and session cache  • Experienced in deployments of Apex and VF pages across DEV, Test and Production instances.  • Proficiency in SFDC Administrative tasks like creating Profiles, Roles, Users, Page Layouts, Email Services, Approvals, Workflows, Reports, Dashboards, Actions, Tasks and Events.  • Excelled in working with various Salesforce.com Standard Objects like Accounts, Contacts, Opportunities, Products, Cases, Leads, Campaigns, Forecasts, Reports and Dashboards.  • Created Custom Objects and outlined lookup and master-detail relationships and Junction objects to implement many-to-many relationships on objects and Roll-up Summary fields to aggregate data from child records on the parent. Modified data object relationships with the help of Schema Builder.  • Effective work of Data Migration using Import/Export wizard and Apex Data Loader for bulk import or export of data from Salesforce.com objects.  • Created workflow rules that defined related tasks, email alerts, and field updates. Automated workflows that make applications collaborate with Salesforce Chatter for the users in the company posting messages to groups and individuals.  • Experienced in Customizing records with Approvals, Automating Business Processes with process Builder and Delayed actions with workflow by collecting data from users and operating on it.  • Developed Reports, Dashboards and Approvals to continuously monitor data quality and integrity. Expertise in Reporting, Customizing the Dashboard and Scheduling Dashboard Refreshing.  • Excellent understanding of Salesforce.com in terms of Organization hierarchy, Roles, Profiles, Users, object level security, field level security, record level security and sharing rules. Efficient in setting up restricted login hours and IP ranges on profiles and resetting the user passwords.  • Experienced in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), quality management systems and project life cycle processes. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Salesforce Administrator/ Developer Capital Group - Irvine, CA March 2017 to Present Capital Group has been singularly focused on delivering superior, consistent results for long-term investors using high-conviction portfolios, rigorous research and individual accountability.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzed business needs, distinguish between needs and wants, identify gaps between business needs and standard application functionality, design and document solutions that fill the gaps.  • Discussed and analyzed the requirements with business team and converted the requirements into detailed technical requirements.  • Customized Salesforce CRM beyond native functionality with Visualforce and Apex code as per the requirements.  • Integrated Salesforce with Mule soft to connect with enterprise applications in the cloud and on premise.  • Developed Test classes and maintained the proper code coverage to deploy into the production boxes.  • Created custom controllers and controller extensions while developing Visualforce pages.  • Developed the Apex Triggers to ensure the correct data entries into the system.  • Created Validation rules on various objects. Also, created assignment rules on Lead object to assign the Leads automatically to various groups of users based on the region.  • Created Custom Objects, Tabs, and Sharing Rules as per the business requirements.  • Customized Salesforce.com Fields, Page Layouts, Record Types, Queues, and Profiles and make the same changes in test and production environments. Deployed the code from Sandbox to Production using Eclipse and Change Sets.  • Designed and maintained different environments, included Development, Test and Production.  • Deployed the enhancements of Custom Objects, Fields, Triggers, Reports and Workflows into the test and prod boxes to make them in Sync.  • Strong experience in implementing Salesforce new features like Process Builder and performed actions Creating Records, posting a Chatter post, Email Alert, Invoking an Apex Class.  • Experience with Salesforce security model, permission sets, record types, and configuration of page layouts.  • Data migration and updates through the Apex Data loader in Sales force.com.  • Co-ordinate with the test team and provide the application flow demo before the test team start the System Testing.  • Designed and deployed the Custom objects, Custom tabs, Entity-Relationship data model, validation rules, Workflow Rules, Auto-Response Rules, Page layouts, Components, Visualforce Pages to suit the needs of the application.  • Involved in data mapping and migration of data from legacy systems to Salesforce.com Objects and fields using Restful API callouts. Involved in creating Apex classes, Visualforce pages, Triggers, Workflows, Batch Apex Classes and Schedulers.  • Automated workflows that make applications collaborate with Salesforce Chatter for the users in the company posting messages to groups and individuals. Communicating regularly with the SFDC designated super users to support them in their role and provide information and training on new features and functionality.  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated them between Sandbox and Production environments for final implementations.  Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Force.com Sites, Apex, Visualforce (Pages, Controllers), Pages, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Sandbox data loading, Data Loader and Eclipse IDE with Force.com plugin. Sr. Salesforce Developer Bloomingdale's - New York, NY April 2016 to February 2017 Bloomingdale's is a departmentstoreand currently owned by Macy's, Inc. It is one of two department store chains owned by the company, with the other being Macy's. Bloomingdale's offers a full range of services to meet the needs, including Size Charts, Check Gift Card Balance, Personal Shoppers, Studio Services, Visitor Services and many more.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Salesforce.com Application Setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization.  • Created many Lightning Components and server-side controllers to meet the business requirements. Experienced in migrating the standard and custom objects in standard experience to lightning experience.  • Created many app pages, home pages integrating the custom components for salesforce lightning and salesforce1 mobile app. Developed Salesforce.com custom application using Apex, Visual force and AppExchange.  • Design, develop and implement solutions for the Apttus CLM system deployed on the Salesforce platform.  • Developed and implemented Wizard for APPTUS CLM to handle conditionality over Tabs, Sections, and Cross Section Conditionality Questions to generate the Agreement.  • Created modern Enterprise Lightning Apps combining Lightning Design System, Lightning App Builder and Lightning Component features. Upgraded some Apps from Salesforce Classic to Lightning Experience to develop rich user interface and better interaction of pages.  • Worked on Salesforce1 Platform to build Mobile App by enabling Lightning Components for use in Salesforce1 mobile platform to make Lightning Application mobile. Retrieved some data and its functionality from Third-Party API's and displayed within the lightning component.  • Created multiple Lightning Components, added CSS and Design Parameters that makes the Lightning component look and feel better. Leveraged APEX Controller to make a call for external requests to retrieve data from various API's and displayed them on to the component.  • Enabled Aura Framework, by adding Aura Attributes and Aura Handlers for Events to focus on Logic and Interactions in Lightning Applications.  • Minimized code in JavaScript Controllers by adding reusable functions in Helper Component. Updated the APEX Controller and Helper functions regularly making the Component Context Aware as per business requirement.  • Tested apps by appending multiple components to a Lightning Application thereby deployed Applications from Sandbox to Production.  • Used refined global search in Lightning by developing Apex classes and Controllers. Experienced using Force.com IDE for creating, modifying, testing, and deploying Force.com Applications.  • Used SOQL and SOSL statements within Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects. Automated the business processes using out-of-the-box tools and services of Lightning Experience.  • Maintenance of installed Managed Packages in Lightning using Apex. Experienced in using Data Migration tool called Data Loader. Used field level security along with page layouts in Lightning to manage access to certain fields.  • Implemented the Web Services through WSDL in the Salesforce.com for outbound messaging. Worked on Integrating SAP and Salesforce systems using SOAP and REST API's.  • Experience in APEX Programming by creating Custom Triggers and perform Asynchronous calls to implement the business logic as per the requirements.  • Involved in daily standup meetings, Scrum. This resulted to bring good solution to the business requirement.  Environment: Salesforce.com Platform, Force.com, Force.com Eclipse IDE, Lightning Experience, Lightning Components, Apex classes and Controllers, HTML, CSS, Data Loader, WSDL, SOQL, SOSL, Scrum, Custom objects, Custom fields, Web Services, SOAP, REST, Mavens Mate, IntellijIDEA, Eclipse IDE with Force.com plugin. Salesforce Developer American International Group, Inc January 2014 to March 2016 AIG is a world leader in insurance and financial services. AIG companies serve commercial, institutional and individual customers through the most extensive worldwide property-casualty and life insurance networks of any insurer. The scope of the project is to maintain synchronization of Client's data with all legacy systems.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in End to end implementation of Salesforce projects including high level Requirement, Functional specific requirements, Analysis, Design, Configuration, Customizations, User testing, Implementation and Administrative support.  • Created Users, Profiles, Roles, Public groups to provide access among and implemented Role hierarchies, sharing rules and Record level permissions to provide shared access among different users.  • Used Apptus CPQ in order to enable sales reps to configure complex product and service combinations and set prices that will positively impact deal profitability.  • Worked on Record types to fine tune pick list values and also display different page layouts, Mini page layouts, field dependencies, list views to display only necessary fields and queues.  • Worked on Custom Object, Fields and customized Standard Objects in Sales Cloud like Accounts, Contacts, Opportunities, Forecasts. Also implemented pick lists, Lookups, Junction objects, Master detail relationships.  • Created workflow actions for related tasks, time-triggered tasks, Email alerts, Field updates to implement business logic for Accounts, leads, opportunities and custom objects.  • Maintained data cleanliness and accuracy by adding custom validation rules, custom formulas, reports and dashboards.  • Designed and developed Apex Classes, Controllers, Extensions and Apex Triggers for various functional needs of the application.  • Implemented the requirements on Salesforce.com platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse.  • Designed various Web pages in Visualforce for capturing various customer inquiries and Implemented logic for migrating cases to different queues based on the type of customer inquiry.  • Integrated using Web Sphere Cast Iron and Informatics Cloud for data migration into the Salesforce.  • Extensively uploaded data using APEX data loader for Accounts, Contacts and other custom objects.  • Worked with Apex Data Loader tool to perform DML operation using CSV files.  • Designed various types Email templates in HTML and Visualforce for auto response to customers and also worked on assignment rules, auto-response rules.  • Created test scenarios on Sandbox, created & migrated packages and between Sandboxes and Production environments to place final implementations.  • Extensively performed unit, Integration, Regression, End-to-End, User acceptance testing (UAT), Go-Live and post go-live testing.  Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex Classes, Apex triggers, Batch Apex, Scheduled Apex, Visual Force (Pages and Components), jQuery, JavaScript, Data Loader, Workflow and Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Web Services, Email Services, Security Controls, Eclipse IDE Plug-in. JAVA Developer Google - Bengaluru, Karnataka December 2012 to October 2013 Worked for Google Street-smart process, Google's street-smart technology is zooming down from its overhead views and placing users on the street with the freedom to check out restaurants and landmarks and even home in on bus stops or street signs to make travel plan.    Responsibilities:  ? I was actively involved in architecting various Business Layer and Data Management components of this multi-tiered web-based system over J2EE architecture, EAI and TIBCO.  ? Designed and developed the messaging framework for communication between workflow manager and other Enterprise Applications over XML and MQ-Series using JAXB 1.0  ? Responsible for developing and maintaining all the entity and session beans.  ? Developed various Customer and Network capacity flows. Developed various server-side components using J2EE and TIBCO APIs.  ? Designed the Metrics module and developed all the components of that. Also developed Metric Event Listener engine based on TIBCO APIs to capture In-Concert based events.  ? Responsible for Web Logic administration, maintenance and performance tuning.  ? NISE-WFM interfaces with thirteen different systems. I actively participated in support for User and System test and lead the system performance improvement efforts.    Environment: Java Beans, Java Servlets, Java 1.3, SQL, PL/SQL, DB2 V8.2, Apache Tomcat, BEA WebLogic, XML, CSS, AJAX, Windows NT/2000, Linux. JAVA Developer Pioneer Limited August 2010 to November 2012 Pioneer is a rapidly growing Company focused on its core business of Cement & Power. Currently its  manufacturing operations are spread over North and Eastern India across five states. It is recognized as one of the most efficient and environment friendly Company in the global industry.    Responsibilities:  ? Actively participated in design and developed multi-threaded MorganXchange server basedon J2EE architecture. I worked on Alert Processor and Scheduler components. Designed and developed an application to monitor alerts and messages generated by MorganXchange using TIBCO/Hawk.  ? Developed the MorganXchange SDK based on XML framework. SOAP wire protocol is used for the communication between the MorganXchange and the SDK.  ? I was also involved in designed and development of web interface using JSP, Servlets, and JavaScript and JDBC for administering and managing users and clients.  ? Designed overall architecture of Rich Media Server RMS with pluggable caching logic using Strategy design pattern. RMS is one of the subsystems of MorganXchange, which does caching of Rich Media Components RMC on local file system.  ? Developed and deployed various Entity EJBs and session EJBs.  ? Developed the messaging adapters to be used with TIBCO/RV for communication between different components.  ? Have done various IVR and system integrations with MorganXchange platform.    Environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, JDK 1.4, XML, XSD, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Oracle, web service, Soap, WSDL, AJAX, My Eclipse, LDAP and Windows XP. Education Bachelors The Oxford College of Engineering Skills Apex (4 years), Eclipse (6 years), force.com. (4 years), HTML (5 years), loader (4 years), Saleforce.com platform, Force.com Sites, Apex, Visualforce (Pages, Controllers), Pages, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Sandbox data loading, Data Loader and Eclipse IDE with Force.com plugin. (8 years) Links http://Salesforce.com Additional Information Technical Skills:    • Force.com  • Apex Custom Controllers and Extensions, Apex Trigger, Apex Scheduler, Batch Apex, Apex Class & Apex Web Service, Visualforce, SOQL & SOSL.    • Custom Integration  • Outbound Messages, Workflow & Approvals, Field updates, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom settings, Custom labels and Tabs, Email Services, Role Hierarchy, Dashboards, Security Controls, AppExchange Package & Custom Application and Sandbox data loading.    • Force.com tools  • Apex Data loader, Force.com Apex Explorer, Force.com Migration Tool, Force.com Excel connector and Force.com Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Workbench.    • Programming Languages • C, C++, SQL, APEX, HTML.  • Platforms • Windows (NT, 2000, XP, 10) and Unix, Linux.