Salesforce Admin and Developer Salesforce Admin and <span class="hl">Developer</span> New York, NY • 8+ years of experience in the field of Information Technology with handful of experience in Salesforce.com CRM Platform and Apex Technologies and Salesforce lightning.  • Certified in Salesforce.com Administrator and developer, with experience in Administration, Configuration, and Customization, Requirements Analysis, Implementation, Data Migration and support of Salesforce CRM.  • Experience in the complete life cycle of project development (SDLC) including System Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Deployment and Maintenance.  • Knowledge of Agile development practices and assessment.  • Proficiency in SFDC Administrative tasks like creating Profiles, Roles, Users, Page Layouts, Email Services, Approvals, Workflows, Validation rules, Reports, Dashboards, Tasks and Actions.  • Experience in SFDC development using Apex classes and Triggers, Visual Force, Force.com IDE, SOQL, SOSL.  • Hands-on experience with development tools like Force.com IDE, Force.com Explorer and Data Loader, Apptus CPQ.  • Strong knowledge in cloud computing application and interfaces.  • Good experience in Salesforce Chatter and hands on experience in defining and delivering the Chatter File Sync and File Sharing solution.  • Key player in migrations and deployment of code from one environment to other usingForce.com IDE deployment wizard.  • Extensive experience in designing validation rules, custom objects, custom fields, role based page layouts, workflow rules, actions, pick lists, approval processes, record types, custom tabs, report extractions to various formats, and email generation according to application requirements.  • Strong working experience in developing/customizing applications using Eclipse IDE with Force.com Plug-in and Force.com IDE, written Apex classes, Visual force pages, Triggers and customized meta-data components like creating custom fields, formula fields and validation rules.  • Good understanding with Client/Server architecture, Object-Oriented design techniques and web application design under Model View Controller (MVC) and Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  • Experienced in web technologies like HTML, XML, CSS, JSP, Java Script, WSDL and SOAP.  • Excellent organizational and strong problem solving skills with a proven ability to contribute in a team environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Salesforce Admin and Developer Health first - New York, NY April 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Interacted with users to understand complex business requirements and documented the requirements.  • Involved in designing, developing and data modeling of the application and ensured that they are within the Salesforce governor limits.  • Created custom objects, custom Fields, Validation Rules, and formula fields.  • Created Visual force pages, Apex Triggers, Apex Classes, Test Methods and Workflows.  • Developed SOQL query to pull data from salesforce.com instance to Right90 application.  • The process is set to run by default every 20 min and pull information that is changed since last sync run.  • Implemented the requirements on Salesforce.com platform using Force.com IDE Plug-in -Eclipse.  • Deploy using Force.com IDE tool, Change sets and Eclipse for sandbox to production environments.  • Developed scripts to load forecast data from salesforce.com.  • Created technical design document and functional design documents as per business requirement.  • Developed integrations to integrate data from Salesforce.com using SFDC APIs.  • Created Page Layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on records.  • Implemented Case Assignment Rules to direct the case to appropriate group such as Stories and PCS Central Support.  Environment: SFDC, Apex, Data Loader, Force.com, Import Wizard, Eclipse IDE, Controllers, Visual Force Pages, XML, Triggers, API. Salesforce Developer/Administrator State Farm - Bloomington, IL June 2016 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  • Performed the roles of Salesforce.com administrator and Salesforce.com Developer in the organization.  • Worked on Sales force classic for service cloud.  • Customized standard Salesforce objects in service cloud like Accounts, Contacts, case management and solutions.  • Created custom applications, custom objects, tabs, advanced custom fields, validation rules, assignment rules and also cross object formulas.  • Implemented record types, lookup and master detail relationships for custom objects.  • Developed Apex Triggers, Apex Classes and Test Methods.  • Developed various visual force pages using standard controllers, custom controllers and controller extension  • Worked on Lightning for sales cloud service on Leads, Task, Activities.  • Created custom components using Aura definition bundle and flexi pages in Lightning based on the requirement, in backend we used triggers and handler classes.  • Using Lightning achieve fast 'Faster deal closures', 'Higher sales Revenue' and 'Maximum lead conversion' with lightening.  • Created reports and dashboards and shared them based on their profiles (permissions).  • Implemented complex workflow rules and approval processes to automate business processes like updating fields, sending E-mail alerts.  • Created time dependent workflows as per the requirement.  • Created e-mail templates and used them in workflow & approval processes.  • Worked on Apttus CPQ(Configure Price Quote ) to produce accurate and highly configured quotes making all of the complex product, pricing, and business rules centralized, automatic and available in real-time.  • Used for most complex products, pricing or channels, CPQ boosts sales effectiveness by giving you the power to create the best quotes possible.  • Responsible for providing object level/record level/field level security by creating roles and profiles.  • Experienced creating permission sets and also sharing rules according to the requirement.  • Involved in Design, development, planning, testing and integration of Salesforce Cloud services.  • Implemented record types, lookup and master detail relationships for custom objects.  • Developed Apex Triggers, Apex Classes and Test Methods.  • Developed various visual force pages using standard controllers, custom controllers and controller extensions.  • Maintained user roles, security, profiles, wherever necessary.  • Created permission sets, sharing rules to extend access in some business requirements.  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists and other components on a record detail and edit pages.  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.    Environment: Salesforce.com, Apex language, Triggers, Reports, Data loader, Workflows, e-mail templates, Approval processes, sandbox environment, Apttus CPQ, security and sharing, visual force pages, visual force controllers. Salesforce Developer AIG Insurance - Jersey City, NJ January 2015 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  • Setting Salesforce.com Application setup and customized the apps to meet organizational requirements.  • Developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Designed Visual force pages with Controller Classes, Java Script, CSS and AJAX functionality.  • Implemented JQuery in the visual force pages for client side actions, validations and UI components rendering.  • Written Apex Triggers for the Standard and Custom objects and written SOQL, SOSL queries to fetch the data from the Salesforce schema.  • Created Apex Test Classes for unit testing Apex classes, Trigger, Web Services and Batch classes.  • Implemented custom validation rules, roll-up summary fields, formulas fields, assignment rules, escalation and sharing rules for the application.  • Designed Account Management, Lead Management, Opportunity Management and Case Management.  • Developed Workflow rules, Workflow Approvals, email alerts and field updates for business process.  • Developed Custom Objects, Custom Reports and configured the Analytic Snapshots to dump the data on regular basis for the sales performance and Lead generation statistics.  • Implemented the requirements on Salesforce.com Platform and Force.com IDE plug-in using Eclipse.  • Developed custom Price Books and products application and customized Products and Price Book using Visual force page and custom controller.  • Used data loader for Insert, Update, and Bulk Import or Export of data to/from Salesforce.com.  • Developed web services using Salesforce.com Web services API to provide data for third party clients.  • Developed Apex Batch, Scheduled classes by implementing Batchable, Schedulable interfaces to process large volumes of data.  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Provided user support and bug fixing activities and performed with in SLA.  Environment: Salesforce.com, Apex, Visual force, Siebel, Workflows, Approval Process, Controllers, WSDL, SOAP, REST, Web services, Batch, Schedule classes, Sandbox, Data loader, Java Script, HTML, CSS, Eclipse Force.com IDE, J2EE, Windows XP. Administrator Deutsche Bank - Jersey City, NJ September 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Defining requirements by interacting with business group, application development group  • Experienced in SFDC development using Apex classes and Triggers, Visual Force, Force.com IDE, SOQL, SOSL  • Worked on Salesforce.com setup & configurations  • Experienced in developing Apex Triggers using the Apex programming using Apex Editor  • Extensive experience on Visual force pages and Page layouts according to the Business requirements  • Worked on Assigning creating Roles Hierarchy, Profiles and Security setup within the organization  • Experienced in creating the Work Flow Rules in the Approval Process  • Responsible for Creating the Validation rules for email and other custom fields  • Custom development using Apex and Visual Force Pages  • Installed the Contact Center Applications and Allowed the end users to maintain a track history of customers complaints  • Performed data cleanup and/or Data migration to/from salesforce.com  • Developed Formulas, Validation rules to maintain the quality of the data  • Worked with Apex Data Loader tool to perform DML operation using CSV files  • Experienced in creation of Queues and Assignment Rules  • Implemented groups in salesforce.com for the sales and support user groups based on the user requirements  • Experienced to maintain, enhance and create workflows and validation rules.  • Created the Dashboards, Reporting Tabs and Pages based on the available data  • Build the Role Hierarchy System in Salesforce.com and created Profiles setup according the Profiles  • Responsible for setting up Filed Level Security  • Developed custom Workflows and Assignment Rules for case escalation  • Implemented Field Level security for sensitive data holder fields  • Created different Record Types, Page Layouts, Formula fields, Workflows  Environment: Force.com, Apex Classes, Visual Force Pages, Controllers, Triggers, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Security Controls, Sandbox, SVN, Data Loader, Import Wizard. Java Developer TDBank - New York, NY January 2013 to August 2014 Description: TD Bank is one of the largest banks in the U.S. offering major Credit and Banking Services to both corporate organizations and individuals. The Project is to maintain the Banking information of the Customers using Java & Salesforce.com.    Responsibilities:  • Developed web components using Servlets, JSPs, Tag libraries, XML, XSL, Tiles  Framework, Struts, and UML  • Created SQL queries and Stored Procedures for CRUD (Create, Read, Update and Delete) operations on database  • Used Eclipse as an IDE and Apache Tomcat as an Application Server  • Testing and debugging the project for proper functionality and documenting modules  • Used Ajax in one of the modules to do asynchronous changes to the pages  • Worked with Struts front-end utilizing the Struts tiles framework and Struts Validation Framework to implement the GUI interface  • Developed client request validations and processing using JavaScript  • Involved in writing the Stateless Session Beans  • Developed application code using Core Java and J2EE (Servlets, XML) in Eclipse tool  • Used JNDI realms to authenticate users in a web application  • Solely responsible for writing the automation tool in java for manipulating the dates  • Used JSTL in struts based JSPs  • Developed front-end form validations using JavaScript  • Used VSS for version control management  • Developed Session and Entity Beans to implement business functionality  • Used Application Assembly Tool for generating War and Ear files and for deployment to the Application servers  • Worked on XML conversions and validations  • Worked on Enterprise JavaBeans is service-side model that encapsulate the business logic of an application.  • All java components are ported into Web logic Application server running on Linux  • Also ported on Windows NT/IIS server with Servlet Exec 3.1 as JSP Engine.    Environment: Java 1.4 SDK, java Script, java beans JSP 2.0, AJAX, XML, JSTL, JNDI, EJB 2.0, UML, Web sphere, Struts, CSS, Eclipse, hibernate. Java Developer Introlligent - IN June 2010 to December 2012 Responsibilities include:  • Part of the team which was responsible for designing and developing the application in n-tier fashion as per struts based MVC architecture standards.  • Extensively involved in HR Module  • Responsible for developing the JSP pages using beans to generate reports.  • Utilize the various J2ee Design patterns to develop the Business modules based on the required functionality.  • Responsible for developing the application level flow by utilizing Java, JSP and Struts  • Responsible for developing the OS specific scripts (Shell Scripts) for automating the closing doc Process  • Used java Script front end Validations  • Develop Session beans and entity Beans representing business logic abstractions  • Responsible for testing of application on various levels like integration and System testing by utilizing various methodologies    Environment: Java, J2EE, JDBC, JSP, HTML, Java Script, Web Logic 8.1, Oracle 9i, Eclipse and Windows XP. Education Bachelors of Technology in Technology Malla reddy Institute of Engineering and Technology, JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana Bachelor's Skills Eclipse, jquery, Jsp, Visual studio, Html, SFDC, Apex, Data Loader, Force.com, Import Wizard, Eclipse IDE, Controllers, Visual Force Pages, XML, Triggers, API. (8 years), SFDC, Soql, Salesforce, Visualforce, Apex Links http://Salesforce.com