Sr. Mobile Developer Sr. Mobile <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Mobile Developer - eBay Philadelphia, PA • Over 9+ years of experience as a software developer and as an iOS developer in designing & developing rich User Interface applications, integrating with various Databases, Client-Server applications and as a Java developer.  • Experienced with the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) process, which includes designing and implementing the software, debugging, fixing and maintaining the software.  • Extensive experience in iOS and Android application design and implementation using Objective-C, C++, SWIFT and Cocoa Touch respectively.  • Sound Knowledge and good working experience on launched iOS and basic knowledge on Swift programming language.  • Experience with Xcode and Interface Builder, Instruments, Mobility Tester and Static Analyzer including development, debugging, profiling, optimizing, and build process in Object Oriented Design Principles (OOD & OOP).  • Developed applications for almost all the departments, which helped me learn more and acquire knowledge on basic business processes.  • Created and customized views, table views, tab bars and navigation bars which are some basic functionality in a multi-view application.  • Expertise in Object Oriented Programming language like Objective-C, C++ and Swift.  • Good understanding of Memory Management: ARC and non-ARC in iOS development.  • Experienced in working with data parsing forms such as XML and JSON, to dynamically display data on iPhone/iPad.  • Proficient skills in Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Expert in Object oriented design patterns in Cocoa/Cocoa Touch.  • Experience developing mobile Graphical User Interface using Interface Builder, Android SDK, Backbone.js, HTML, DHTML, CSS, Java Script, and AJAX.  • Expert level skills on developing mobile libraries to consume Mobile APIs.  • Expert level skills in developing custom UI components for iOS native environment. Work Experience Sr. Mobile Developer eBay - San Jose, CA December 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed and Developed native mobile apps using react native components and libraries.  • Coded components for a React Native app (works on iOS and Android) to add functionality.  • Used Redux-Store for storing state of the React Application and worked with middleware for the Redux-Store.  • Constructed a powerful and modern frontend architecture involving React, Redux  • and ES6.  • Experience in testing Mobile Native and web Apps (iOS and Android) using mobile devices.  • Designed, Developed multiple native IOS and Android apps using java and objective C.  • Worked excessively on core JAVA / Kotlin / SWIFT concepts like polymorphism,  • inheritance, serialization, synchronization and exception handling.  • Developed new features using Cordova and AngularJS.  • Used Ionic/Cordova and Google Cloud for hybrid mobile apps.  • Worked with Angular by using latest features of lazy loading, AOT, code splitting, progressive web apps.  • Generated a Material kit ready code-base including views in the design support library.  • Designed interactive UI/UX for mobile platforms using XML, Storyboard, and NativeBase.  • Build pixel-perfect, response-smooth App UI based on React Native Elements.  • Experience building complex iOS applications that include storyboarding, navigation patterns.  • Localization of web site and mobile platform.  • Tested implementation of Mobile web on various smart phones like iPhone/ iPad.  • Published Apps to both Play store and iTunes.  • Developed mobile applications using Angular 2, HTML5, CSS and Bootstrap.  • Worked with javascript and css for dynamic html custom page solutions.  • Collaborated with UX designers to research, design, test, and iterate design solutions.  • Developed AJAX functionalities using frameworks like JSON, DOJO and JQuery.  • Managed WiFi lab and equipment for testing with BlackBerry/Tablet devices.  • Designed and developed the databases for the websites and mobile applications using SQL server and SQLite.  • Experience in using various development environments like Eclipse and Android Studio.  • Expert in iOS Development using Swift with Xcode.  • Monitor the automation scripts run on iOS simulators and Android Emulators.  • Conducted version control, software maintenance and backup using Maven and Git.  • Integrated Build Process through Jenkins to various SCM tools like JIRA, Git and SVN.    Environment: React Native, Redux, iOS, Android, Java, SWIFT, Objective C, Kotlin, Cordova, Ionic, ReactJS, Angular, PWA, iPhone, iPad, HTML5, CSS, Javascript, UX Designers, Ajax, Android, Blackberry, Tablet, SQLite, Android Studio, Xcode, Emulator, Git, JIRA Sr. Mobile Developer Sovereign Bancorp Mortgage - Boston, MA December 2015 to November 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developed custom internal frameworks for IOS and Android.  • Designed, developed native IOS and Android enterprise dashboard applications (agile).  • Created mobile applications for Blackberry, Android, Windows 7, Tablet and iPhone/ iPad using Java.  • Program software using XCODE, SWIFT, and Cocoa Touch frameworks.  • Program with Swift language for iOS in a multiple language codebase (Objective C/Swift).  • Wrote and integrated custom Cordova plugins, OAuth and GPS using native code, Objective C and Android Studio, Java.  • Utilizing REST API backend to serve news using Angular/Ionic frontend.  • Utilized Retrofit and RxJava for performance enhanced multithreading.  • Perform Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, Camera, Audio and Video functional Test according to test plan.  • Used TestFlight to create functional test through iTunes Connect and XCTest framework to write unit tests  • Used Python, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, Angular JS, to develop the website.  • Built and improved internal admin webtools using PHP and JavaScript.  • Worked with UX designers to check-ins and feedback on UX design process.  • Developing a multi platform phone app for iOS, Android, Blackberry and Windows Phone 7 using PhoneGap and Sencha Touch.  • Used RESTful JSON based web services for Android/Sencha Mobile app integration.  • Used AJAX, Java script and GWT to create interactive user interface.  • Use SQLite via Ionic's Storage to capture and maintain persistent data on device.  • Good experience in mobile testing using APPIUM in both IOS and Android applications using simulator and emulator.  • Used GIT repository for software configuration management and version control.  • Worked on JIRA development with JAVA and Groovy scripting.    Environment: iOS, Android, Java, SWIFT, Objective C, Cordova, Ionic, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Sencha Touch, Sencha Mobile, Ajax, iPhone, iPad, Android, Windows, Blackberry, Tablet, SQLite, Android Studio, Xcode, Emulator, Git, JIRA Mobile Developer Costco - San Diego, CA June 2013 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  • Used Appium for native, hybrid mobile Application Testing for iOS and Android platforms.  • Fully developed native IOS and Android mobile news application (Front & Backend) with firebase functionalities implementation.  • Worked on JIRA development with JAVA and Groovy scripting.  • Strong knowledge of Java for Android and Objective C, cocoa for iOS.  • Architected and coded mobile hybrid applications (iOS and Android) using pure HTML, CSS and JavaScript codebases (Cordova)  • Full-stack cross-platform mobile app development using Ionic, angular, and typescript with Node.js server.  • Utilized Volley for RESTful API calls with backend systems for fast and reliable performance.  • Utilized Retrofit to get PDF in byte array from backend, then display the page with PDFViewer.  • Run enhanced data rate and Low Energy testing for Bluetooth modules, electrical devices and headsets.  • Used wire shark to debug wifi connection of prototype daughter board to insure interoperability of remote unit is receiving data.  • Ensured display and on-screen rotation worked well on all devices and screens.  • Configure Mobile Device Management using Mobile Iron on iPhone/ iPad, Tablet and Android devices.  • Published Apps to both Play store and iTunes.  • Implemented CSS3, DOM Api, DOJO and Ajax to create a dynamic and interactive experience.  • Developed mobile applications using JQuery Mobile, PhoneGap, and Sencha.  • Ensured BlackBerry Desktop worked with Apple computers.  • Provided IT troubleshooting for laptop and desktop systems ranging from Mac OS to Windows PC.  • Mobile Development using Swift with Xcode.  • Used MVC pattern for designing the application using Android Studio and Android SDK.  • Usage of version control repository SVN (Subversion by apache) and JIRA.  Environment: iOS, Android Java Objective C, Cordova, Ionic iPhone, iPAD, HTML, CSS, Dojo, Jquery Mobile, iPhone, iPad, Android, Windows, Blackberry, Tablet, Android SDK, Xcode, SVN, JIRA. Mobile Developer LA Fitness Mobile - Reston, VA May 2011 to June 2013 Responsibilities:  • Worked on iOS and Android both platforms simultaneously using Xamarin platform.  • Successfully integrated user permissions for iOS and Android.  • Developed reusable web components, JSP, Servlets and Java Beans that use the MVC pattern to access EJB.  • Worked extensively with Java, Objective C and Swift.  • Designed hybrid mobile app for Android and iOS using Ionic, Cordova, AngularJS.  • Used the best rated frameworks such as Retrofit and Volley for the fastest connections and parsing of REST JSON data.  • Utilized custom widgets to enhance user experience, API calls with Retrofit.  • Worked with the Android and implemented Android Bluetooth and Location Connectivity components.  • Checking Bit Rate and supporting channels of the Wifi Module to insure connection is consistent without drop packet in Wifi.  • Handled Fragment data retention to ensure data integrity on screen rotation.  • Architected and developed a prototype iPhone/ iPad app.  • Published Apps to both Play store and iTunes.  • Responsible to manipulate HTML, CSS and JQUERY as well as making the pages dynamic.  • Ensured BlackBerry/Tablet products met carrier acceptance testing requirements.  • Worked regularly with both MacOS and Windows.  • Worked extensively with Swift, Xcode and Frameworks like UIKit and Foundation.  • Worked with the Android SDK, and implemented Android Bluetooth and Location Connectivity components.  • Worked on IDE's like Eclipse, Netbeans and version control tools like Mercurial, SVN, JIRA, and Git.    Environment: iOS, Android, Java, Objective C, Cordova, Ionic, Volley, Bluetooth, Wifi, Screen Rotation, iPhone, iPAD, HTML, CSS, iPhone, iPad, Android, Windows, Blackberry, Tablet, Android SDK, Xcode, SVN Sr. Java Developer Tardent Apps Inc - Boston, MA December 2009 to May 2011 Responsibilities:  • Developed iPhone and Android mobile app using Sencha Touch and Phonegap framework.  • Used Sencha Touch to create Android and iOS applications to support RoR app.  • Mobile application development utilizing Sencha Touch Javascript API Framework.  • Responsible for the implementation of Web Design based on CSS3, HTML5, and Bootstrap Front-End Framework.  • Developed HTML5 Mobile application with HTML5, Java Script, jQuery, JSON and RESTful web service.  • Used JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, CSS3, and HTML5 as data and presentation layer technology.  • Design front end with CSS3 and HTML coding  • Extensively using Jquery Mobile, Google Maps UI plugin and Google Maps Javascript Api.  • Worked on the MVC architecture of Angular.JS in developing the Single Page Application (SPA), build the controllers and directives which are totally customized to meet the needs of the application.  Environment: Java, Spring, RESTful web service, Spring data, Tomcat, Eclipse, log 4j, JSON, SVN, Oracle, Maven. Education Master's Skills Kotlin (4 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages  React Native, Redux, iOS, Android, Java, SWIFT, Objective C, Kotlin, Cordova, Ionic, ReactJS, Angular, Android, iPhone, iPad, Java, CSS, Java script, JQuery, Windows, Unix, JDBC, Hibernate, JSF, XML Parsers, JSP, EJB, JMS, Java, Struts, Spring Java Beans, Web Services, AJAX, Java/JDK.    Technologies  J2EE, Android SDK, Android NDK, JDBC, iPhone, iPad JSF, Servlets, JSP, RMI, EJB, JNDI, JMS, XML, XSL/XSLT, HTML, DHTML, HTML5, CSS, Javascript, Ajax, Android, Blackberry, Tablet, SQLite, Android Studio, Xcode, Git, JIRA    Integration Tools  Web Sphere MQ, Web Sphere Business Modeler, Web Sphere Integration Developer, Web Sphere Process Server, Web Sphere Business Monitor, Web Sphere Message Broker.    Databases Oracle, DB2 and SQL Server  Application Servers Web sphere Application Server, Web sphere Process Server, BEA Web Logic Application Server.