Sales Development Representative Sales Development Representative Silver Spring, MD Innovative, versatile and creative individual with the skills, passion and professionalism needed for directing teams, ensuring that organization goals are attained, implementing and monitoring software development processes, and reporting to senior management. Versatile Scrum Master capable of leading transformations and mentoring teams to adopt Agile methodologies in Scrum, SAFe, Kanban, and Scrumban at the Enterprise and Team level. An expert in project management, customer service orientation, creativity, problem solving skills, and in paying attention to details. Demonstrated success in problem solving and a proven track record with strong attention to detail. Outstanding verbal/written communication skills and ability to coordinate multiple detailed projects from initiation to completion in a deadline-driven environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sales Development Representative Vorsight - Arlington, VA March 2019 to Present Connecting and communicating with high level personnel from all fields including IT, Business, Marketing, etc.   Working with a team of motivated and experienced individuals to achieve team goals.   Creating long term relationships between clients and prospects.   Conducting prior company understanding and research to increase knowledge and conversation for clients success. Manager/Owner The Shisha Lounge - Germantown, MD June 2018 to Present • Coordinated weekly events and meetings needed for the business; Such as the planning of organized events for week and holding team meetings for updates between myself and the employees  • Managed employee work schedules and duties  • Worked with customers very closely to take in constructive criticism to improve business  • Managed online presence with social media such as Facebook, Instagram, Google Business, etc.  • Managed business income and expenses; Through the use of Microsoft Excel and hard copies done by hand Project Coordinator Marriott International, Inc. - Gaithersburg, MD October 2016 to June 2017 • Working in an Agile team with management to streamline Marriott’s new Starwood openings.    • Coordinate meetings to setup openings with over 500 properties worldwide.   • Create and modify views through Microsoft SharePoint and Microsoft Excel to organize/update properties.  • Contact properties and assist in setting up servers with easy-to-understand instructions to accommodate all experience levels.   • Hold daily meetings with team members to create goals and increase organization. Java Developer Intern RAZ Systems - McLean, VA May 2016 to December 2016 • Worked on a team to build web applications.  • Developed code in HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Java, T-SQL.  • Wrote SQL queries in a MySQL database: created rows and tables in SQL and worked with a variety of joints.  • Leveraged MVC architecture to create a JSP web-site application  • Developed an Agile framework and facilitated Agile adoption retrospectively for the organization together the leadership.   • Enhanced teams’ performance by guiding teams. Web Developer Intern ROATech LLC - Silver Spring, MD May 2015 to August 2015 • Worked on a team to build web applications.  • Developed code in HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Java, T-SQL.  • Wrote SQL queries in a MySQL database: created rows and tables in SQL and worked with a variety of joints.  • Leveraged MVC architecture to create a JSP web-site application  • Developed an Agile framework and facilitated Agile adoption retrospectively for the organization together the leadership.   • Enhanced teams’ performance by guiding teams. Assistant Coordinator Asian American LEAD October 2012 to June 2013 Education Bachelor's in Secondary Education University of Maryland-College Park - College Park, MD January 2014 to May 2019 Bachelor's in Civil Engineering University of Maryland-College Park - College Park, MD January 2014 to May 2019 Skills Able to use all of Microsoft Office (10+ years), Customer Service Skills (5 years), Customer Relations (5 years), High level of proficiency with Html, CSS, and JavaScript (3 years), Excellent communication, interpersonal and presentation skills. (5 years), Unwavering attention to detail (10+ years), Technical leader with the ability to grasp new technologies and processes (3 years), Strategic planner and operations manager (5 years), Marketing, Payroll, Outlook, Scheduling, Administrative Assistant, Data Entry, Accounts Payable, Word, Billing, Receptionist, Microsoft Excel Certifications/Licenses SAFe Scrum Master HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Java, SQL Assessments Customer Focus & Orientation — Familiar March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to respond to customer situations with sensitivity. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ntnlongckybhjmjh Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.