AEM DEVELOPER AEM <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> AEM DEVELOPER - Beverly Hills, LA Beverly Hills, CA • An AEM devotee with 6 years of industry experience in developing and implementing Enterprise Solutions for Distributed Software products and distributed applications using JAVA technologies. And around 3+ years of experience in development, design and implementation of modules on AEM 6.1 and AEM6.2 ,6.3and6.4.  • Solid understanding of all Adobe AEM building blocks and the AEM development and deployment process.    • Development of User Interfaces for both Classic UI and Touch UI utilizing Granite UI and Ext JS.    • Design and implement solutions by leveraging Adobe AEM Sites.    • Proficient with authoring, and deployment activities in AEM    • Broad experience in Web Content Management System with Adobe AEM 6.0, AEM 6.1, AEM6.2 and AEM6.3    • Strong Knowledge in building up an application on OSGi, Apache Sling, and Apache Felix Frameworks.    • Expertise knowledge of Sightly. Created components using Sightly HTML Templating Language.    • In Depth Knowledge in building blocks, CRX repository, using web content management components for customization and portion of websites.    • Good Knowledge in AEM 6.3 features including Editable templates, new Sling annotations, Experience Fragments, Dynamic Media, new OSGI, context aware configuration, layout mode, mobile simulators.    • Worked on a complete stack of AEM development project and delivered end-to-end implementation from requirements till production    • In Depth Knowledge in DAM migration projects including DAM console customizations, migration of DAM assets from legacy DCM solutions onto AEM DAM and Scene7 cloud    • Hands-on Experience in Sling technologies including sling servlets, sling mapping, sling models, sling Osgi config, sling context aware configuration, sling core.    • Worked on Multi Site Manager (MSM) in AEM to control over blueprints and live copies and work on rollout configurations.    • Worked on Integrations between business needs and technology solutions, helping to create technology solutions to meet clients' business needs.    • Strong knowledge in creating Tagging, Personalization, Internationalization and Search Engine optimization in AEM suite.  • Good Understanding on new features of AEM 6.5 like customize the metadata fields for assets and content fragments and new integrations with Magento Commerce    • Experience in developing applications using Waterfall, Agile (Scrum), driven methodologies and involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)    • Good knowledge on version control tools like GITHUB, SVN.    • Experience of development in different platforms like Windows, LINUX. Work Experience AEM DEVELOPER Beverly Hills, LA - Los Angeles, CA March 2018 to Present based City National Bank offers a full complement of banking, CNB is a subsidiary of the Toronto-based Royal Bank of Canada, and it is the 37th largest bank in the United States City National also makes available wealth management, brokerage and leasing services among others  Responsibilities:  • Design &Development of templates, custom components and workflows using AEM 6.4.  • Setup and configure Authoring and Publishing environments, Replication agents, Reverse Replication agents, Flush agents AEM dispatcher to cache the landing pages html and serve as the static pages from Apache.  • Involved in building dynamically generating Drop down lists using Ajax, JQuery and Angular JS to provide services to different components of portal.  • Maintaining OSGI java classes for assets import, validation processes, and to fetch the data from CQ repository.  • Developed Components and Templates using AEM touch UI for supporting the different  webpages.  • Used Maven scripts to build the application and used the continuous integration server to deploy the bundles.  • Migrated project from AEM 6.2 to AEM 6.4 Upgraded all the current instances to AEM 6.4 using the in-place upgrade method.  • Wrote java classes with SCR annotations to define OSGi services and programmatically access the JCR nodes.  • Created custom workflows to add additional renditions for Images and email service to approve content.  • Integrated 3rd party API to fetch user data, consumed JSON data by making AJAX calls.  • Extensively used CQ5 tagging features, adding keywords for search engine optimization while developing components and templates.  • Developed code using JSP, HTML, JavaScript, jQuery and CSS in CRDE lite/ CRXDE to build code blocks for components.  • Involved in developing and debugging the websites based on functional requirements.  • Customized dialogs for all the components for providing various options to authors while Creating pages.  • Worked on maintaining the images, CSV's and other media on DAM (Digital Asset Manager).  • Enhanced AEM personalization engine to surface the AEM content on portal using JavaScript and Sling script based on segment and LDAP user profile attributes    Environment: AEM 6.4, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Jenkins, Eclipse, Maven, Angular JS, JavaScript, Service API, AJAX, JSP, Java, Servlets, RESTFUL, XML, Junit. AEM DEVELOPER Cargill December 2016 to February 2018 Job Description: Cargill the largest privately held corporation in the United States in terms of revenue some of Cargill's major businesses are trading, purchasing and distributing grain and agricultural commodities Cargill also has a large financial services arm  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Installing and Configuring 6.2 version of Adobe AEM instance.  • Responsible for developing and converting user stories to technical specification documents.  • Developed custom page content components, page templates, dialogs, and widgets for web pages using Sightly.  • Developed CQ design libraries as per the requirements, defining approval workflows, DAM asset update workflow.  • Created and deployed web pages using HTML, JSP, Angular JS, java script, j query and CSS.  • Used Maven project structure for building the packages, subversion for source control, file vault for importing the code from JCR to file system and vice versa.  • Managed Users, Groups, System Users and Access Control Level (ACL) permissions.  • Configuration of Blueprint, Live Copies, defining Sync Actions for Multi-Site management modules.  • Created workflows, content activation, uploading DAM Images.  • Defined AngularJS search interfaces which will get the data from Restful web services and integration with AEM.  • Used Jenkins as a build tool and used Jira to track the bugs, issues and project management. Creating/modifying templates as per new requirements, custom dialogs and updating the client libraries.  • Extensively used CQ Tag Libraries in the components, used tag manager to categorize tags and searching based on it.  • Involved with content management strategies, architecture, and multichannel content delivery.  • Worked on stories related to AEM in sprints this includes feature development and production issues.  • Wrote back end servlets to query JCR and return the response in JSON, XML, and TXT formats to a front end.  • Performed AEM customization on foundation components, core CMS and workflows to extend functionalities, improve performance as per the requirements.  Environment: AEM 6.3, Sightly, DAM, Java, JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, JSON, HTML, CSS, Ajax, jQuery, Angular-JS, Apache Sling, CRXDE, CRX, WCM, JIRA, Jenkins, GIT, Maven. AEM Developer Great west Financial - Denver, CO October 2014 to November 2016 Great-West Financial is helping millions of Americans for a better financial future through life insurance policies, investments, annuities and executive benefits it is the nation's second largest insurer in sales of individual life insurance through banks The project involves in the template and component creation for every page, managing the components using front end technologies, creating the bundles in eclipse, and deployment using maven.    Responsibilities:  • Developed AEM templates and reusable components and custom workflows.  • Worked on AEM maintenance activities like users/group administration.  • Involved in dispatcher configurations, filters, replication agent's setup, etc.  • Maintained the Content Management System (CMS) and provided support for the application in authoring environment.  • Worked on creating the sling servlets and OSGi services for the business logic to process the request.  • Development of modules and OSGI bundles.  • Worked on the landing pages, category landing pages using content management system AEM for the consumer portal.  • Developed UI modules using HTML, JSP, JavaScript and CSS and worked on JSON and Ajax.  • Designed and developed application based on Spring MVC design pattern, used spring validation and wrote validation rules.  • Developed RESTFUL services with Spring REST and JAX-RS as Specification using HTTP Resources and returned JSON as a response.  • Involved in the implementation of Data access objects (DAO) using Spring-Hibernate ORM.  • Used Hibernate, object/relational-mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with a SQL-based schema.  • Wrote service methods and SQL queries to interact with the DBMS and writing test cases using JUnit Frames.  • Experience in Integration of the System modules, Writing Test Cases, Bug Fixing and Enhancements.  • Developed the client-side validation for the entire screen using JavaScript.  • Setup Data access layer with JDBC Template and Hibernate Template on Spring framework.  • Developed Test cases for Testing.  • Used JIRA as a ticketing tool for story creation, tracking the issues and worked on AGILE methodology.    Environment: AEM 6.1, CRX DE, Sightly(HTL), ECLIPSE, JAVA, J2EE, Spring MVC, JSP, JavaScript, RESTful, Hibernate, CSS, J Boss, JUnit, AJAX, SQL, UNIX, HTML, SVN, Maven, JAVA DEVELOPER ADP INDIA - Hyderabad, Telangana February 2013 to April 2014 ADP is comprehensive global provider of cloud-based Human Capital Management (HCM) solutions that unite HR, payroll, talent, time, tax and benefits administration, and a leader in business outsourcing services, analytics and compliance expertise.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis, Design and Developed class graphs and association charts utilizing Rational Rose.  • Extensively used Core Java and Data Structures in business layer classes.  • Used spring/JSP for presentation layer.  • Developed web tier by using Struts Framework, JSP's, Spring etc.  • Implemented J2EE design patterns such as Factory, DAO, Session, Singleton, Value object.  • Used Hibernate to implement persistence layer. Used DAO design pattern.  • Developed Web Services to interact with internal applications and an interface between CMS and ecommerce system for data exchange and/or manipulation using Core java, Servlets and JSP.  • Developed GUI functionality using JSP, JSTL, Tiles, AJAX, Ext JS and jQuery.  • Developed JSP custom tags, JUnit tests and model pages using JSP2.0 and Wrote Ant Scripts from the scratch to build the application.  • Used XML media type to transfer application data client and server from the SOAP web server.  • Used JavaScript's for validating client-side data.  • Involved in debugging and troubleshooting related to production and environment issues  • Used log4j for Error logging and Mercury to test the application and fix the bugs.  • Developed Stateless session beans (EJB 3.0) for business layer and used Clear Case for version management.  • Worked on entry level shell scripting/Unix.  • Possess strong analytical skills to derive constructive solutions for the problems.  • Worked in a scrum-based environment. Participated in sprint planning meetings.    Environment: JSP, AJAX, Spring, Unix, Shell scripting, clear case, XSLT, core java, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, XML, SOAP, Hibernate 3.1, EJB 3.0, jQuery, Ant, Junit and Webservices. Jr Java Developer United Global Soft, HYD March 2011 to January 2013 United Global Soft is a business processing company which deals with a vast variety of business process, research, design and implementation, developing and delivering high end technology Solutions.    Responsibilities:  • Participating in user requirement sessions to gather business requirements.  • Worked closely with UI Architects, System Analyst and designers to understand the requirements.  • Involved in designing and programming of dynamic website using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and J-Query.  • Designed and developed user friendly Web Based interfaces using JSP, HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript and custom tags.  • Worked with Photoshop to implement mock-ups and the layouts of the application.  • Experience in working with E-commerce design and development of dynamic online websites.  • Table-less Design in CSS for positioning.  • Involved in writing SQL Queries, Stored Procedures to interact with the oracle database.  • Involved in configuring hibernate to access database and retrieve data from the database.  • Experienced in working with the core java concepts like OOPS, Multithreading, Exceptional handling, JDBC etc.  • Developed Front End Pages using HTML, CSS and JavaScript, Web design and application development using Photoshop, HTML, JavaScript and Dreamweaver.  • Implemented various Validation Controls for client-side validation and implemented custom validation controls with JQUERY and JavaScript.  • Developed CSS classes to GUI web page controls and forms.  • Handled all aspects of the web applications including maintaining, testing, debugging and deploying.  • Actively participated in day-to-day meeting, status meeting, strong reporting and effective communication with project manager.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, J Query, JSP, Photoshop, Core Java, MySQL, XML. Education Bachelor's Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Technical Skills:  Enterprise Web Products AEM 6.0, 6.1, 6.2, 6.3,6.4.  Build & Integration Tools Maven, Jenkins, ANT  Frame Work Spring MVC, Struts MVC, Hibernate, SOAP, REST  J2EE Technologies JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Web Services  Web Technologies & Scripting XML, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, JSON, jQuery, Bootstrap, Angular JS  WCM Apache Sling, HTL(Sightly), Jackrabbit, JCR, OSGI, Felix  App/Web Servers Apache Tomcat Server, WebLogic, IBM WebSphere  Programming Languages CORE JAVA, J2EE, HTML.  Version Control System SVN, Git  IDE NetBeans, Eclipse, intellij and CRXDE  Operating systems Windows, Unix and Linux, Mac OS X  Testing Junit, J test, Spring Test.