Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - PWC Albany, NY * 6 Years of IT experience in analysis, design and development of client server and web based applications using Java, J2EE and XML.  * Participated in entire Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Requirement Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Implementation, Documentation and Support of software applications.  * Well versed with AGILE methodologies and experience in Iterative development, Continuous Design, Refactoring, Continuous Integration and Test driven development.  * Object Oriented Design (OOD) experience with Rational Rose and Enterprise Architect (EA). Designed and modeled projects using UML - Use Cases, Sequence Diagrams, and Class Diagrams etc.  * Expertise in implementing Object Oriented Methodologies and Design Patterns such as Factory, Builder, Delegate, MVC, Data Access Object (DAO), Front Controller, Service Locator Patterns.  * Hands on experience in Web Design ANGULAR-JS,AJAX, CSS, XML, WSDL, SOAP, Restful, Dojo, JQuery, EXT-JS, Java/J2EE, Struts, spring and Hibernate.  * Extensive knowledge in working with J2EE technologies such as Servlets, JSP, JDBC, EJB, JNDI, JSF, Java Beans, JMS,JPA ,JAXB,JAX-RS, JAX-WS, RMI, JNDI.  * Experienced In front End frame works such as, JQuery, Ajax, JavaScript, Nodejs ,ReactJs, BackBoneJs, Angular js.  * Experienced in, Client side validations , Client-Server data interaction using ajax in Node, js.  * Extensive & expert level of experience with Java Platform, JEE, EJBs, JDBC, JPA, Servlets, JSP, JMS, XML, Applets, JavaScript, POJO.  * Experienced in writing the code in Clojure programming language.  * Expertise in XML technologies like XSD, DTD, XSL, XPATH, XSLT and parsers like SAX and DOM.  * Developed Web Services like REST and SOAP using Spring Web Services, Axis and JAX-WS.  * Proficiency in developing Model View Controller (MVC) Architecture based applications using Struts and Spring Frameworks.  * Proven expertise in implementing IOC and Dependency Injection in various aspects of Spring Framework (Core, Web, JDBC, MVC and DAO) and also experience in integrating Spring Web Flow with other frameworks like JSF.  * Hands on experience in Hibernate in integrating legacy databases, configuring XML files for mapping and hooking it with other frameworks like spring, Struts and other technologies.  * Experience working with Apache Camel, Spring Integration& MULE.  * Experience in implementing SOA architectures with web services using WSDL, SOAP and UDDI.  * Experience creating single page applicaitons using Angular.js and Node.js.  * Have extensive experience in building and deploying applications on Web and Application Servers like Apache, JBoss AS, Weblogic, Websphere, Glassfish and Tomcat.  * Good experience in PL/SQL programming including complex SQL queries using stored procedures and Triggers in Oracle, SQL Server using TOAD and Query Manager.  * Configured logging tool using log4J and SLF4j.  * Experience in using Version Control tools like SVN, CVS, VSS, Git and Star Team.  * Performed Integration and deployment of applications using ANT, Maven, Hudson and Jenkins.  * Thorough knowledge of scalable n-tier, distributed as well as client/server architectures.  * Experience in designing Low Level and High Level design and architectural documents.  * Implemented various Ajax Frameworks such as jQuery, DOJO, JSON.  * Designed and developed various integration components using JMS and MQ Series.  * Expertise in applying code optimization, performance tuning techniques. Performed memory profiling and load test analysis.  * Proven technical leader with expertise managing offshore teams, management experience handling multiple applications, various levels of developers and stakeholders. Work Experience Sr. Java Developer PWC - Albany, NY January 2018 to Present Project Description: Develop the new policies for the Life and Auto Insurance and also to understand new business transactions, calculations and delivering the reports accurately. We are also migrating from mainframe to Hadoop clusters and for this we are using the clojure as the programming language and the counterclockwise as the tool.    Responsibilities:  * Developing new solutions by replacing an existing legacy application with HDFS.  * Writing Clojure code to implement personalization algorithms for Life and Auto Insurance in State Farm.  * Preparing functional design documents, use cases, test cases and other system documentation.  * Implementing new features like Macros, Predicate functions, Reducers and Lambda expressions to validate, calculate and filter the business data.  * Experienced and proficient in deploying and administering GitHub.  * Successfully implemented parallel-programming concepts to support processing large volumes of data.  * Working on Schema validation to validate the business transactions and reporting the data to meet compliance requirements of State Farm.  * Designed and developed Customer registration and login screens using JSP, HTML/DHTML and JavaScript.  * Hands on experience in working on Spark SQL queries, Data frames, import data from Data sources, perform transformations, perform read/write operations, save the results to output directory into HDFS.  * Writing unit and integration test cases to verify correct functionality of business logic and to validate the input data.  * Deployed and configured Git repositories with branching, tagging and notifications.  * Developed stored procedures, Triggers and Functions to process the trades using PL/SQL and mapped it to Hibernate Configuration File and also established data integrity among all tables sitting on Oracle Database.  * Developed web pages to display the account transactions and details pertaining to that account using JSP, DHTML, Spring Web Flow, AJAX and CSS.  * Wrote application front end with HTML, JSP, Ajax, custom JSP tags for role-based sorting and filtering and used JavaScript validations to validate the fields of the user registration screen and login screen.  * Worked with the architecture team to find the solution for the better way of tracing the exceptions in the code.  * Involves in Sprint planning for the estimation of efforts for user stories and bugs.  * Performed code reviews and provided guidelines for best practices of software management, Coding Standards and Code Commenting for better understandability.  * Developing the application using tools like CounterClockwise (Eclipse), Lighttable and Jenkins for project build.  * Ability to understand new business transactions, calculations and delivering the reports accurately.  * Following Scaled Agile Framework in the progress of the development and using VersionOne tool for project tracking.    Environment: Hadoop, Clojure, Apache Spark, Flambo, Version one,Scaled Agile, Git. Sr. JavaFull Stack Developer Black Knight Financial Services - Nashville, TN October 2015 to December 2017 Project Description: Black Knight offers leading software systems, data and analytics offerings, and information solutions that facilitate and automate many of the business processes across the mortgage life cycle. Lending Space is a suite of enterprise applications to facilitate end-to- end loan provisioning. It caters applications like LOS (Loan Origination Solution), Correspondence Portal and Rules & Decision management. Role includes participating in daily scrum calls, defect fixes, performance tuning and feature enhancements as a part of overall product development and maintenance.    Responsibilities:  * Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  * Developed java modules implementing business rules and workflows using Spring MVC, IoC, Web Framework.  * Had experience in performance tuning J2EE apps, performance testing, analysis, and tuning.  * Developed the Product Builder UI screens using Angular-JS, Node JS, HTML5, CSS, Javascript and Bootstrap.  * Worked on development of Hibernate, including mapping files, configuration file and classes to interact with the database.  * Improved the maintainability of the project by implementing and improving Exception Handling and Collection APIs  * Involves in Sprint planning for the estimation of efforts for user stories and bugs.  * Performed code reviews and provided guidelines for best practices of software management, Coding Standards and Code Commenting for better understandability.  * Implemented UNIX utilities using shell script for data validation, manual job submission, restarting failed jobs, etc.  * Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud Micro services and develop Spring based application with very less configuration.  * Actively involved in deployment Application war files in Weblogic Application server.  * Migration of current search process from Database to Solr search engine.  * Designed and developed the REST based Microservices using the Spring Boot, Spring Data with JPA.  * Responsible for maintaining and expanding our AWS infrastructure using AWS (EC2/EBS).  * Refactored the code for JVM Optimization and performance of application.  * Involved in Maven based build process and continuous integration of the project using Bamboo and Jenkins.  * Experienced in full-text search engine techniques like Lucene, Solr with Jetty Server.  * Implemented SOA architecture with Web Services using SOAP, WSDL and XML to integrate other legacy systems.  * Unit testing of developed product features using Junit and Mockito frameworks as part of development cycle.  * Wrote build and deployed scripts usingShellandANT scripts and involved in performance analysis of the application and fixed problems/suggest solutions.  * Used SOAP based Web services and RESTful Web services for transferring data between applications.  * Knowledge of open source frameworks including Spring, Play and Lucene.  * Designed and developed various Oracle database Simple and Complex Queries, PL/SQL procedures, Stored Procedures, Trigger and Functions.  * Developed UI using AngularJS, HTML, JavaScript and developed Business Logic and Interfacing components using Business Objects, XML, and JDBC.  * Responsible to finish Jira Tickets assigned on time and update their status on regular basis.  * Used SVN for source code control.  * Develop detailed program design for application changes and/or major bugs.  * Involved in writing program documentation and technical specification documents.    Environment: Java,J2EE,Spring v3.x, Spring MVC,Hibernate v3.0, Oracle DB, Angular-JS, Node JS, Bootstrap, CSS, HTML5, Javascript, jQuery, AJAX,GIT, IntelliJ, AWS SNS/SQS, DbVisualizer, Tomcat, JBoss, SVN, Maven, JIRA, SOAP/Restful Web Services, Redhat Linux, Jenkins, WSDL, Spring Based MicroServices, Agile, cucumber, Bamboo CI. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer (Fullstack) BCBS - Chicago, IL March 2013 to October 2015 Project Description: This project is to replace an existing legacy payment & billing platform for ServiceMaster. Service Master is the parent company for AHS, Terminix, merry maid etc. Earlier each company has separate billing platform but now Service Master has planned to build one single billing platform for all the above mention companies.    Responsibilities:  * Analyzed Business requirements and existing software for High Level Design. Prepared System Requirement Specification (SRS) and functionality documents.  * Followed Scrum concepts of Agile Methodology to produce high Quality application.  * Designed and developed user interface screens using AJAX, HTML, DHTML, JSF, Servlets and JavaScript.  * Used JavaScript to validate the fields of the user registration screen and login screen.  * Implemented Spring MVC architecture.  * Develop the online web application using HTML/CSS &Javascript, AngularJS/AngularJS2, Spring Boot, Spring MVN and Bootstrap.  * Experience with Kinesis, Lambda, Docker, Elastic Beanstalk and AWS Cloud Formation  * Involved in migration of previous platforms from Spring to Spring Boot for building microservices.  * Configured Spring to manage Actions as beans and set their dependencies in a Spring context file and integrated middle tier with Struts web layer.  * Implemented Struts 2 framework for web controller, utilized Struts validations.  * Designed and integrated the full scale Hibernate Persistence solutions with the application architectures and also used Annotations Developed Session Bean for implementing the Business Logic.  * Designed and developed JSF components, implemented event handling using Java, JSF, AJAX, and JavaScript for various modules.  * Experience with open source databases such as Cassandra, MongoDB.  * Implemented JSF Converters to handle formatting and Localization and configured the faces-config.xml to create a web application navigation rule.  * Implemented caching techniques, wrote POJO classes for storing data and DAO's to retrieve the data and did other database configurations using Hibernate.  * Wrote build & deployment scripts using Maven.  * Deployed flow of Execution in the Servlet Environment using JSF and defined Navigation Rules.  * Architected JMS with Spring which involves setting up ActiveMQ message broker, declared ActiveMQ message destinations and also implemented Spring's JMS Gateway Support class as a base class for JMS gateway classes.  * Orderly logged the whole process using log4j for auditing, debugging and error logging purposes.  * Performed Unit testing by using JUnit, and load testing by using JMeter.    Environment: Java (Java1.6), J2EE, Websphere Application Server (WAS)7.0, AWS, Spring Boot, Eclipse IDE, Shell and Perl scripts, Oracle 9i/10g, DB2 9.5, UML, DOM/SAX parser, Unix, PL/SQL, XML, Windows OS, HTML, IIS7.0, FTP, SSH. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Whole FoodsAustin, TX 2011 to December 2011 Project Description: Whole Foods online website and internal web applications to order products from the different system. It has the capability to generate reference numbers which can then be pervasively exchanged across systems, ISGM Migration project maintains the customer details and updates promotional details to the customers.    Responsibilities:  * Designed, developed, debugged and tested the web based application using the J2EE architecture.  * Performed Application Demo's to the end clients.  * Developed WS-Security based Web Services to interact.  * Understanding and analyzing business requirement.  * Designed and developed the User Interface using JSP, Servlets and Java for both Business Logic and GUI development.  * Implemented client side data validations using JavaScript and Server side data validations using JSF validators.  * Developed & deployed the application in Web sphere Application Server.  * Involved in the design and development of XML presentation.  * Created XML Schema, XML template and XSL.  * Involved in the design and development of XML presentation using CSS & XSLT.  * Formulated Use Cases for each business requirement and normalized the use cases to suit the requirements.  * The UML use case designs are developed using and Rational Software Architect v7.0/6.0.  * Developed SQL, PL/SQL with Stored Procedures to interact with Persistent database using Oracle 10g.  * Used Hibernate,Object/Relational-Mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with a SQL-based schema.  * Designed the data base and Normalized the Data Base in 3NF.  * In Normalization resolved the trivial dependences, non key attribute & transitive dependences using 1NF, 2NF & 3NF.  * Responsible in maintaining the testing and development environments with every day smoke test.    Environment: J2EE1.4/1.5/1.6, J2SE 1.4/1.5/1.6, Java, JSP, JavaBeans, Java Script, JQuery, StrutsV2.x, JSF, XML, XSLT, Web Sphere Application Server (WAS), TomcatV6.0, DB2v9.1, SQL Query Analyzer, SQL Server 2012. Education Bachelor's in Engineering in Engineering JNTU Skills AJAX (6 years), CSS. (6 years), HTML (6 years), Java (6 years), SQL (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Languages Clojure, Java, C, C++, SQL  Platforms Windows 7, Windows XP, Windows Server 2003, LINUX, UNIX, Mac  Frameworks Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Spring-core, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring web services  J2SE / J2EE Technologies Java, J2EE, Swing, RMI, Sockets, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, Java Beans, JSTL, JSF 1.x/2.x, Jakarta Struts, EJB, JTA, JMS, Web Services.  Web Technologies HTML, HTML5, XHTML, CSS, Java Script, My Faces, Rich Faces, JSF, PHP, AJAX and Angular JS  XML Technologies XML, XSL, XQuery, XSD, XSLT, SAX, DOM  Web Services Spring Web Service, AXIS, JAX-WS and JAX-RS, WSDL, SOAP and REST  Web/App Servers  Web Sphere 5.1/6.0, Web logic Application server, JBOSS, J2EE Server 1.4, Apache Tomcat 4.1/5.1, Spring Boot, IBM HTTP Server, and IIS.    IDE RAD 6.0, WSAD 5.1, Eclipse 3.1 with My Eclipse 4.1.1, Rational Rose 98/2000.  Tools and API's  Pivotal tracker, JIRA, BugZilla, SQL Developer, Maven, JBoss Hibernate Tools, Tortoise and Jboss Web tools, Log4J, JUnit, JMeter, Lucene, SOLR    Version Control Subversion SVN (subclipse, tortoise), CVS, Git, Visual Source  Design Patterns Unified Process, Front Controller, Singleton, Factory