Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> New York, NY, NY, NY, NY • 7+ years of experience in developing web and windows applications usingJava and J2EE technologies.    • Sound knowledge and experience in the development of web based applications using Core Java, JDBC and XML technologies.  • Expertise in working with SOA, Web 3.0, Struts 1.X/2.X, Spring, Java, JSP, JDBC, JPA, JDO, JUnit, JavaScript, JSON, HTML, XHTML, XML and XSLT.  • Experience in HTML5/CSS3, Backbone.js, Node.js, Angular.js, React.js, Responsive design and Photoshop.    • Proficient developer of view-controller components using Servlet's/JSPs and Struts Framework.    • Expertise in Design, Development, Deployment of Enterprise and Web Based projects using Web servers and various application servers including WebLogic and WebSphere/RAD.s  • Experience using tools like Vagrant, Maven, Ansible and Chef.    • Version Control System Administration, using GIT.    • Experience in Oracle WebLogic 11/12 Administration    • Expertise in Object Oriented Analysis, multi-threading and Design (OOAD),OOP (Object Oriented Programming), Perl and applying OO principles in software development.  • Hands on experience in designing UML diagrams using EA and RationalRose.    • Good experience in working with different types of databases like DB2, Oracle, MySQL.    • Developed Complex database objects like Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages and Triggers using SQL and PL/SQL.  • Expertise in developing, deploying, porting and debugging application for Android & IOS mobile development and also in web / software development.  • Develop reusable solution to maintain proper coding standard across different java project. Proficiency with the application servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, JBOSS and Tomcat.  • Experienced with XML related technologies such XML, XSLT (DOM, SAX), XPATH and DTD.    • Experienced with various frameworks like Struts, Spring, Hibernate, and JPA.    • Developed clients for the Web Services using apache axis and tested it using SOAPUI.    • Good knowledge of developing GUI based application using Swings and Java Applets.    • Expertise at JDBC API for connection and access to databases.    • Experience on different IDEs such as RAD, Eclipse, NetBeans and deployment using Application Servers Apache Tomcat, BEA WebLogic, WAS and JBoss.  • Experience with JUnit, Log4j in developing test cases and determining application functionality.    • Experience in implementing Design Patterns like Singleton, Factory,Session Facade, MVC, Data Access Object and Business Delegate.  • Experienced in RDMBS such as Oracle, MySQL and IBMDB2 databases    • Having Experience on UNIX commands and Deployment of Applications in Server.    • Good understanding of Business workflow, Business logic and Business methods for further implementation of user requirement in a distributed application environment.  • Rich experience in deploying of J2EE Applications on various servers (WebLogic, JBOSS and Tomcat).    • Experienced in coding SQL Procedures/Functions, Triggers and Packages on database packages like Oracle.  • Knowledge of software development life cycle and project documentation.    • A self-motivated professional and natural communicatorpossessing good technical, initiating, leadership and problem-solving skills and has proven to be a good team player. Work Experience Java Developer American Express - New York, NY February 2016 to Present Description: The application mainly focuses on analyzing the different price plans that can be offered to the customer based on the customer usage, number of lines, device type the customer is carrying, data usage, message usage among others. The customer information is fetched from different systems within the organization like the billing system, ECPD (Enterprise Customer Profile Database) system to get the above parameters for the customers. Complex logic is executed to get the accurate and most appropriate price plan for the customer.    Responsibilities:  • Participated in and is key contributor to various SDLC phases - Analysis, Design and Testing.    • Determined project impact from a technical perspective, assesses business needs and prepared technical requirements.  • Project was developed using Agile based SCRUM Methodology.    • Used XML parser APIs such as JAXP and JAXB in the web service\'s request response data marshaling as well as unmarshalling process.  • Prepared technical design documents and Unit Test Case documents.    • Responsible for application code development and quality and ensured J.B.Hunt product standards are implemented and conducted peer reviews.  • Developed the MVC application model using Spring framework, and used Hibernate framework to interact with the database.  • Done server side validation and client side validation.    • Involved in supporting the Application after roll out to the customers like data configuration and application level issues.  • Implemented SOAP based WebServices using ApacheCXF.    • Invoked/Consumed the WebServices for fetching the account details of the client    • Involved in project testing phases - System Integration Testing, User Acceptance Testing and tracking/ resolving application issues.  • Responsible for deploying applications in development and DEV environments    • Used JUnit Testing Framework for performing Unittesting.    • Responsible for handling day-to-day technical issues, analyzed and determined root cause, facilitated resolution.  Environment: JDK 1.7, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, JSP, Servlets, Oracle Database, AJAX, Java Script, Eclipse IDE, JUnit, CXF Web Services, Oracle, WebLogic 10, JQuery, SVN. Full Stack Java Developer Meridian Enterprises Corporation - St. Louis, MO October 2014 to January 2016 Description: Meridian Enterprises corporation provides information technology services and professional services. This project is an ecommerce application intended to develop, support, maintenance and implementation of a complex module. This project involves shopping cart design, checkout process flow and Account creation, Profile page reports. When the user selects an item, and add it to my cart that is ready to be placed in the Shopping Cart. Once the item is selected and added to the cart various steps occur including    item validations, generate Quote, perform Payment Authorization, perform Order Real Time Provisioning for    applicable items and finally submitting the order.    Responsibilities:  • Participated in gathering and understanding the dealer's/suppliers/vendors/service center's requirements.    • Design Use Cases, Sequence, ER-Diagrams and Class diagrams using Rational Rose    • Used Hibernate for connecting to the database and mapping the entities by using Hibernate Annotations and written HQL Queries.  • Involved in configuring and integrating JSF, Spring and Hibernate frameworks with caching techniques.    • Implemented SOA architecture with Web Services using REST, WSDL, JSON and XML.    • Developed GUI based application using Swings and Java Applets.    • Involved in preparing design documents, developing use cases, identifying classes and Objects, drawing class diagrams, sequence diagrams using RationalRose and identifying the designpatterns, frameworks to be used during implementation.    • Developed user-friendly UI using activities, custom dialogs and list view    • Developed RESTful Web services for other applications to consume    • Implemented the required GUI by making modifications to the xml files    • Involved in resolving the runtime exceptions and crashes using Android debugging tools including DDMS and Logcat  • Implemented the automatic logout mechanism after session time out using Alarm Manager and Broadcast Receiver  • Involved in implementing push notifications using long polling and google cloud messaging.    Environment: J2EE, JDK1.6, Ajax, Spring Frame Work, Hibernate 3.0, JMS WSDL, REST, Postman, XML, HTML, Log 4j, WebSphere 6, RAD 7, React.JS, Angular-JS, Oracle. Full Stack Java Developer Verizon Wireless - Irving, TX December 2012 to September 2014 Description: American Express is one of the secured financial institutions that serves huge domain of customers. It offers various financial and banking services to its customers. The current application is a part of online banking that allows a customer to pay bills securely as well as enroll in monthly automatic recurring bill payment. The functionalities involved in e-bill payment are Add a Payee, make a Payment, set up Automatic Payments, Receive Bills Electronically, Request E-mail Notifications and Review Payments. The application also supports intra and inter-bank transfer of funds for a given customer.    Responsibilities:  • Understanding the current system and also the business requirements for the new OMS.    • Participated in requirements review discussions and interacted with other business units to resolve requirements bugs  • Responsible for enhancing modules like Assets, QC, QA, Authoring and cancel the unused services in the existing system.  • MVC architecture was implemented for supporting the UI using Java Server Faces framework.    • The Spring web flow was used to control the UI flow navigation of this web application and integrated with JSF.  • The Spring framework was used to manage the transactional requirements.    • Developed Servlets interacting with database to create java beans for the model layer and various business objects implementing business logic.  • Involved in the designing of the applications based on SOA and exposing the functionality using Web Services.    • Configured IBM's MQ message driven architecture for the exchange of messages between the applications.    • Involved in Java SQL development.    • Involved in Localization for customizing an application.    • Created Data Source for interaction with Database.    • Developed SQL Stored Procedures and Prepared Statements for updating and accessing data from Database. Utilized Hibernate for Object/RelationalMapping and querying using HQL.  • Object relational mapping is done using Hibernate for data persistence and involved in the integration of Hibernate with Spring framework.  • Involved in technical specifications, designed and developed using Swings, Hibernate and Spring    • Log 4j was used to monitor the error logs.    • Used ANT to build and deploy the application.    • Developed several unit tests using JUnit framework    • Worked on database interaction layer for insertions, updates and retrieval operations of data from Oracle 10g database by writing stored procedures.  • Used UNIX Script and used Maven as version control system.    • Deployed the application on WebSphere Application Server.    Environment: Java 1.5, JSP, JSF 1.2, Swings, Servlets, Spring, Session Façade, DAO, DTO, Java Script, AJAX, RAD 7.0, WebSphere Application Server 10.0, MQ, Hibernate 3.2, Oracle 10g, XML Schema, SOAP, WSDL, Log 4j, Junit, Unix scripting, Maven. Java Developer Singleton, Factory and DAO - Bengaluru, Karnataka March 2011 to November 2012 Description: Project involved creating new pages for personals site to provide users a better and friendly experience with the site using Agile Methodology of software development. Project involves developing product pages for personals providing various features to users along with promoting partners in various pharmaceutical companies.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Generated Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.    • The application is designed using J2EE design patterns and technologies based on MVC architecture.    • Agile Methodology is used for development of the application.    • Used J2EEdesign patterns like Value Object Pattern, Business Delegate, service locator, and session façade, Singleton, Factory and DAO.  • Implemented Struts Dispatch Action class and form bean classes using struts framework    • Client & server validations were handled using JavaScript &Struts validator plug-in.    • Struts Tiles Framework is implemented for a common look in all the presentation views.    • Integrated struts MVC with spring DI and springHibernateDAO.    • EJB Session Beans were used to process requests from the user interface and CMPentitybeans were used to interact with the persistence layer.  • Implemented security for different front end views based on the access privileges.    • Involved in writing XML validation classes using Struts validation framework.    • Designed the user interfaces using JSPs, AJAX and StrutsTags    • Used XML Web Services using SOAP to register agents using non- java application.    • Used RAD IDE based on Eclipse for writing code for JSP, Action Classes, Strutsand Spring beans.    • Involved in writing DAO, DTO's using HibernateDAO Support.    • Implemented persistence layer using Hibernate that uses the POJOs (which do not have the business processes) to represent the persistence database.  • Used IBMWebSphere Application Server to deploy the application.    • Developed JUnit test cases for DAO and Service Layer methods.    • Used SVN for version control of the application.    • Used Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.    • Developed the ANT scripts for preparing WARfiles used to deploy J2EE components.    • Interacted with quality assurance team for requirements gathering and analysis.    Environment: Core Java, J2EE, JSP, Struts, Spring, OOAD, Oracle 9i, HTML, XML, Design Patterns, ANT, Rationale Rose, IBM RAD IDE, IBM WebSphere Application Server 6.1, Hibernate 3.0, LOG4J, Sub Version(SVN), TOAD, JUNIT, UML. Java Developer LIC - Chennai, Tamil Nadu August 2009 to February 2011 Description: LIC offers various insurance policies to customers like providing health, life and Auto Insurance. I have worked on multiple projects. Contributed in designing a prototype for future system claim processing by developing a web-based service application to streamline office workflow processes involved in Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) transactions and benefits in claims management cycle.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirements gathering and clientcommunication.    • Designing the system and documenting UseCases, Classdiagrams, Sequencediagrams.    • Involved in Coding and Implementation.    • Developed dynamic and interactive webpages using DHTML.    • Prepared the test cases as per the requirements. Created Ant build scripts.    • Software Deployment and testing.    • Understanding of requirement and design.    • Implemented the scheduling logic using QuartzScheduler.    Environment: Java 1.4, JSP, Servlets, JMS, Weblogic, Oracle Education Bachelor's Skills JAVA (9 years), ORACLE (9 years), JSP (7 years), AJAX (7 years), XML (7 years) Additional Information SKILLS    AJAX (6 years), Java (8 years), JSP (7 years), Oracle (8 years), XML (6 years)    SKILLS    Languages Java 1.5/1.6, JavaScript, C++, Perl, Python, Groovy, HTML, XSLT, XSL, CSS, DOJO    Web Frameworks Servlets, JSP, Ember.js, JSTL, Ajax, JQuery, Bootstrap, Angular.js, Node.js, React.js, Struts, Spring 3.2, Grails, YUI    Application Frameworks EJB 3.0, JMS, JDBC, Hibernate, EH cache, Spring MVC Application Server WebLogic 10.3, WebSphere 7.0, Glassfish v2, JBoss, Tomcat Web Server Apache    Web Portals Life ray Portlets 5.x, Life ray Portlet6.0.5    IDE Tools Net Beans, Eclipse, AccuRev, SLSB, RAD, STS, MDB RDBMS Oracle, MySQL, NoSQL, SQL, MS SQL, DB2    Tools XML Spy, Splunk, SOAP UI, Ant, Maven, Subversion, GIT, CVS, Photoshop    Design Methodologies OO Design, Analysis(UML) from Rational Rose, Clear Case 7.0/Clear Quest    Operating Systems Windows, Android, IOS, Unix, Linux.