Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - State of Utah Salt Lake City, UT • 6+ years of experience in Software Design, Development, Implementation, Testing of Object-oriented and Web based Enterprise Applications using JAVA/J2EE technologies.  • Experience in Web Application Development, Client-Server based Enterprise Applications, System Analysis, Technical Design, B2B Implementation and Testing.  • Skills in developing applications using Core Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services (SOAP and REST), Collections, JDBC, XML, HTML, XHTML, HTML5, CSS, JSON, JavaScript, Ajax, Design Patterns, XSL/XSLT and JQuery.  • Good exposure to the Software Development Lifecycle and Agile/Scrum methodology.  • Used various Core Java concepts such as Multi-Threading, Exception Handling, Garbage Collection, Collection APIs to implement various features and enhancements in Web applications.  • Hands on experience in developing Single Page Applications (SPA) using Angular JS and Node.js.  • Strong exposure working with J2EE design patterns like MVC, Front Controller, Data Accessor, Value Object, Singleton and Session Facade.  • Experience in web application design using open source frameworks like Spring MVC, JSF and Struts Framework.  • Strong hands on exposure to Application Servers like Apache Tomcat and WebSphere.  • Extensive experience in development and implementation of Restful Web Service as a Provider using messaging medium as JSON and have also implemented Soap based web services, WSDL and UDDI using XML over HTTP(s), SOAP, WSDL, Restful protocols.  • Good experience with version controls like SVN, CVS & GIT-BLIT.  • Experience in working with Relational Database (RDBMS) concepts, database designing, Normalization, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, Triggers and extensively worked with SQL Server, Oracle 10g/11g, MySQL and NOSQL.  • Exposure to NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra and Mongo DB.  • Experienced in generating logging by Log4j to identify the errors in production test environment and experienced in Maven for building projects.  • Hands on experience using Messaging Services like JMS, Active MQ.  • Used Jenkins as a Continuous integration and delivery tool that ties automated builds and tests.  • Worked with JUnit for unit testing, Mockito for mock creation and verification.  • Used JIRA, Confluence, Splunk, Git, Source tree to provide tier 1 support for developer and operations staff.  • Hands on experience in setting up databases in AWS using RDS, storage using S3 bucket and configuring instance backups to S3 bucket to ensure fault tolerance and high availability.  • Have worked Importing volumes, launching EC2, creating security groups, auto-scaling, load balancers (ELBs) in the defined virtual private connection.  • Maintenance and monitoring of Docker in a cloud-based service during production and setting up system for dynamically adding and removing web services from a server using Docker.  • Good debugging skills, deep diving into technical issues, collaborating with cross-domain experts, handling clients with different priorities and mind sets, both onsite and remote.  • Involved in guiding junior developers and review their code functionality before passing to Quality Assurance. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer State of Utah - Salt Lake City, UT March 2018 to Present Description: The scope for this project includes combining the Care about Childcare website and URPD website into one website hosted and maintained on DTS infrastructure and maintained by DTS resources, as well as developing a new electronic Child Care Quality System that will be incorporated into the new website.    Responsibilities:  • Java web development using IntelliJ IDEA.  • Provide programming support for all the DWS web projects, audits and infrastructure activities.  • Elevate the applications to different levels as per the release schedule.  • Oracle Database development using SQL Developer.  • Responsible for accessibility testing.  • Web programming using Angular, responsive design expertise and Java Script expertise.  • Responsible for making and keeping up design for Restful API utilizing Spring Boot.  • Worked on Angular JS variant for customer side JavaScript MVC system for the improvement of dynamic web applications.  • Contribute to the customer's improvement standard practices of Micro services engineering by creating reusable item expansions and composing learning articles dependent on experience.  • In addition, using tools and technologies such as Java, J2EE Web Development using IntelliJ IDEA, Oracle database development using TOAD or SQL Developer and Oracle PL/SQL stored procedure development.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Angular, Spring, Agile, Linux, Jdk1.8, JSP, Oracle SQL Developer, Spring Test, GitHub, Docker. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer ETS Corporation - Sterling, VA April 2017 to March 2018 Description: ETS is a registered member service provider with MasterCard and Visa International and has emerged as a pioneer in PCI-compliant merchant processing solutions in the industry. ETS supports all forms of electronic processing like credit and debit card processing, POS check, electronic funds transfer (EFT), and ATM.    Responsibilities:  • Participated in reviewing business requirements, technical requirement documents.  • Implemented Agile (SCRUM) methodology and Test-Driven Development (TTD) for the software development process and to produce high quality application.  • Used Spring MVC to achieve Model View Controller design pattern.  • Used Eclipse IDE for application Development and used Maven for build automation tool to compile and generate WAR and JAR files.  • Worked on HTML5 code and integrated CSS style sheets to it.  • Created all the services to work with the various entities provided and rectify the services using REST APIs with JAX-RS.  • Worked with cross browser issues for multiple browsers and OS.  • Implemented JQUERY, Angular JS, and AJAX calling for the UI part.  • Involved in Configuration of Apache Tomcat Server and deployment of application code.  • Extensively used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the Oracle 11gdatabase.  • Worked on database connectivity using Oracle SQL Developer and pushing data back and forth from the database.  • Used Java Message Service (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of information.  • Used Spring, Spring Integration framework to build applications& interact with multiple interfaces.  • Troubleshoot the Web Services and Identify the issues based on the logs generated and fix the Issues.  • Used the Linux servers to view the application logs to trouble shoot the application issue.  • Extensively worked on developing web pages using HTML5, CSS, JQuery and JavaScript.  • Used GIT HUB as version control software to manage the source code and to keep track of changes to files which is fast and light weight system.  • Used Log4j as the logging framework.  • We have tested our application in the Docker container provided by the AWSECS service.  • Mentor the developers to understand the application and worked with them resolving critical issues.  • Co-ordinate offshore team to assign & fix the application issues based on the priority.  Environment: Java, J2EE, spring, Agile, Linux, Jdk1.6, JSP, JMS, Web Logic, Oracle, Oracle SQL Developer, Soap UI, Junit, Mockito, Spring Test, GitHub, Docker, Log4j. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Cross Country Healthcare - Boca Raton, FL September 2016 to March 2017 Description: Cross Country Infotech Private Limited responds to the IT and software requirements of its parent company - Cross Country Healthcare, Inc. CCH is one of the largest healthcare staffing companies in the United States. The company has a varied client base and has thousands of contracts with hospitals and healthcare facilities, pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers and other healthcare organizations. The wide range of Web applications, Web portals, and Mobile applications allow HCPs to filter through assignments in real time and find the best opportunity to advance their careers. Services are completely client-focused so that all possible options for HCPs quickest career growth are made available.    Responsibilities:  • Translate business requirements into technical document by Interacting with Business Analysts and Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) to carefully understand business requirements.  • Involved in the requirement analysis, design and development of the application built in Java/J2EE using JavaScript, JSP, AJAX, JDBC and Web Services with JAX-WS.  • Contributed in design and development of Spring MVC web-based application.  • Designing and Developing Micro-services that are highly scalable, fault-tolerant using Spring Boot.  • Designed and developed User Interface of application modules using HTML, CSS and JavaScript and AJAX.  • Excellent understanding of java concepts like multi-threading and concurrency, Collection Framework, String, Exception handling.  • Involved in writing JSP and JSF components. Used JSTL Tag library (Core, Logic, Nested, and Bean and Html tables) to create standard dynamic web pages.  • Developed Web Service client interface with JAX-WS from WSDL files for invoking the methods using SOAP, and deployed the application using the Web Logic as application server.  • Worked on Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, EJB's, JDBC, HTML, XML, and other web-based development tools.  • Unit testing, reproducing, analyzing and fixing defects identified during the Quality Assurance process.  • Used ANT build tool for building and deploying the application onto the production boxes.  • Managed source repository using SVN for version control tool.  • Used Jenkins to perform continuous integration and continuous deployment.  • Provided Log4j support for the application for debugging the system  • Used Object/Relational mapping Hibernate framework as the persistence layer for interacting with Oracle 10c.  • Effectively prepared for and organized technical inspections to review code and design models with peers and software architects.  • Provided On-Call Support for various products and maintained them.  • Good Knowledge and Understanding of Insurance Domain.  Environment: Java, J2EE, EJB, Servlets, JSP, Micro services, Web Services, Web Logic, HTML, CSS, Java Script, Spring boot, Log4j, SVN, PL/SQL, Jenkins, Hibernate, Oracle 10c, SQL, DB2, AJAX, JQuery, Ant. Java/JEE Developer American Water - Pittsburgh, PA January 2015 to July 2016 Description: The main goal of this initiative is to improve different processes in the web self-service system. Some of these enhancements are to satisfy federal and state government.  • Reduce shopping path barriers.  • Enhance site functionality that connects the site experience with the brand.  • Improve overall customer satisfaction throughout the buying process.    Responsibilities:  • Interaction with client and designing Technical design document from Business Requirements for the development team.  • Involved in preparing High level and low-level design documents for the task involved in redesigning the BBW webstore.  • Used Agile Methodology and participated in Scrum meetings.  • Used Core Java concepts and other J2EEtechnologies during development phase.  • Used Spring Beans to encapsulate business logic and Implemented Application MVC Architecture.  • Worked on Spring Cache technique, Hibernate configuration and related module service class implementation.  • Used MS SQL Server 2012 as the database and Eclipse as the IDE.  • Used T-SQL to retrieve data using multiple SQL statements.  • Designed and developed front view components using JSP, HTML and CSS.  • Developed User Interface for Application and Purchase System using JavaScript and jQuery.  • Developed Web Services to communicate with other applications using SOAP.  • Developed the WSDL and Web Services in Apache Axis2 for different modules.  • Tested Web Services using SOAP UI toolkit locally.  • Created continuous integration builds using Maven and SVN control.  • Prepared Test Cases to perform Unit, Integration and System Testing. Tested the developed components using JUnit.  • Deployed web components, presentation components and business components in Apache Tomcat.  • Involved in Unit Testing, Interface Testing, System Testing and User Acceptance Testing.  Environment: JAVA /J2EE, Agile, Spring, JSP, Servlet, HTML, CSS, Web services, SOAP, Maven, SVN, Eclipse, JUnit, JQuery, Hibernate, Apache Tomcat, Apache Axis2 MS SQL, T-SQL. Java Developer Radcom Software Services LLC November 2013 to November 2014 Description: IAT is an application that provides B2C service offered by operators to their customers allowing Roaming Recharge facility, like users can recharge his/her own prepaid account while travelling abroad. It also permits Airtime Transfer from a various set of channels, enabling user and not only the networks subscribers to recharge the mobile prepaid account of another person.    Responsibilities:  • Designed user interfaces, object model, application server logic and schema by analyzing user requirements.  • Designed UI pages using HTML, Java Script, JSP tag libraries.  • Used J2EE patterns for designing applications.  • Monitored the performance of Servlets using JProbe.  • Coded Struts Action Classes and Model Classes.  • Developing various Action classes and implemented various Service methods as per the requirements.  • Development of complete IAT Soap Blocker and multi-threading feature to handle SOAP-XML requests/responses.  • Designed and developed Message driven beans that consumed the messages from the Java message queue.  • Implemented business logic using Java Beans for data collection from the front end and storage/retrieval from the backend MYSQL DB using Hibernate.  • Played key role in implementing Value Object and DAO design patterns.  • Using Model View Controller (MVC) architecture of Struts developed client User Interface.  • Extensively involved in Unit testing and coordinated with the testing team and fixing Bugs at various stages of the application development.  • Worked on France telecom-based IRMA tool for bug fixing.  Environment: Java/J2EE Struts 2, Web Services, MYSQL, IBM WebSphere MQ, Eclipse (GANYMEDE), SOAP UI, Apache, AXIS SOAP Engine, Ant. Education Bachelor's Degree in Engineering in Engineering Gitam University Master's Degree in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Illinois Springfield - Springfield, IL Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java (6 years), Hibernate, Spring, Jax, Jax-ws, Jdk, jquery, Jsp, Servlets, Struts, Database, Db2, Jdbc, Sql server, Sql server 2000, Mysql, Oracle, AWS (2 years), Angularjs, Javascript, MVC, Java J2Ee, JEE Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages Java, C++, SQL and PL-SQL.  J2EE Technologies JDK, JDBC 2.0/3.0/4.0, EJB 2.0, Servlets 2.3/2.4/2.5, JSP 1.2.  Databases Oracle 10g/11g, SQL Server 2000/2005/2008, MySQL, DB2  Database Tools Toad 9/10, SQL Developer, PL/SQL Developer, MySQL workbench, Oracle 10g/11g.  Web Services SOAP, RESTful, JAX-WS, JAX-RS.  Web Technologies XML, XSL, DOM, HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, CSS3, WML, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, Node JS, Angular JS, GUI, Fuse.  Web/Application Server Apache TomcatAS 4.0/4.2/5.1/6.0/7.0, Tomcat 4.0/5.x/6.x, Apache HTTP Server.  Framework Spring 3.0/3.1/4.3/5.0, Hibernate 3.0 /3.2/4.0/5.0, Struts 1.x/2.0, ADF.  IDEs Eclipse, RAD, NetBeans, IntelliJ.  Version Control CVS, SVN, Clear Case, Git-Blit.  Methodologies Agile, Scrum, Test Driven, Waterfall.  Defect Tracking Tools & Others Jira, putty, WinSCP, Control M Scheduler, Site Minder, Twilio.