Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Bank Of America • Result-oriented IT Professional with 8+ Years of IT experience in development, testing and documentation of web-based distributed systems, enterprise applications using JAVA/J2EE technologies.  • Experienced in all stages of the software development lifecycle (SDLC) - planning, gathering requirements, specification, analysis, design, development, testing, production support and maintenance  • Designed and implemented several projects in e-Business & Workflow Solutions for Health and Financial Industries.  • Worked extensively on core java (Collection classes, Multithreading concepts) and J2EE (JSP, Servlets, EJB, Webservices) Apache Tomcat BEA Weblogic Server, 8.x/7.x/6.x/5.x, JDBC, JNDI, XML and RDBMS like SQL and Oracle.  • Worked on Frameworks of Spring Modules (CORE, Spring WEB, Spring ORM, DAO, Spring MVC), Hibernate, JPA, Struts-2  • Well experienced in component design and architecture of enterprise systems using various J2EE and Java Design Patterns.  • Developed and Implemented Web Services (Jax-ws) based on SOAP protocol.  • Created RESTful web services interface to Java-based runtime engine and accounts.  • Experience in Design Technologies like AJAX, HTML, Angular.js and JavaScript.  • Experience in server side Business Logic Development using Session, Entity and Message Driven Beans.  • Worked on Agile and Scrum methodologies.  • Working knowledge in source code Management using CVS and deploying applications like Maven to increase productivity.  • Strong in developing use cases, sequence diagrams and preliminary class diagrams for the system using UML.  • Extensive experience in testing the application with JUnit.  • Work with quality standards like the CMM Model for Software Development Cycle. Good experience in onshore-offshore model.  • Excellent Communication & Interpersonal skills, commitment to co-operative teamwork. Motivated team player with ability to work under minimal supervision. Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Bank Of America - Plano, TX July 2016 to Present Description:  Bank Of America is one of the leading multinational banking and financial services company. It provides consumer banking, corporate banking, finance and insurance, mortgage loan, investing banking and many other services. My current project is to develop a tool that provides customer authentication services by multilevel interactions. Authentication tool has face to face, In Bound and Out Bound interactions. Every interaction has token value based on outcome of the interactions and the total token value will complete customer authentication process.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirement analysis, design and development of Custom Controller Commands, task Commands and JSPs.  • Used Spring Framework to implement the application  • Used the functionalities to write code in HTML, CSS, Angular.js, JavaScript and Ajax  • Developed code using Java/J2EE, JDBC concepts.  • Created scripts to create new tables, views, queries for new enhancement in the application using TOAD  • Developed several web pages to perform checking and validations at Client's end and Sever end validation based on the Business rules.  • Established Connection between Java and Database using TOAD.  • Analyzed the requirements and prepared the feasibility of the implementing the requirements.  • Created technical specification documents for the requirements.  • Developed the restful web service to provide an interface to the clients through other applications to access their documents.  • Used Maven for building the project.  • Deployed web and enterprise applications in Web logic application server 7.0.  • Involved in project reviews and given information whenever required  • Performed unit test cases using JUnit and automating the test cases.    Technical Environment: Java1.6, Spring Framework, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Html, JavaScript, Angular.js, DAO, XML, JUnit, Toad, Agile Methodologies, Weblogic, putty, Web-services, Drools, Maven, eclipse, Apache Tomcat Sr. Java Developer Capital One Bank - Richmond, VA November 2014 to June 2016 Description:  Capital One Bank is a national financial holding company that offer services like banking, investment and loans. This application offers various features like creating new accounts, managing existing accounts, processing credit card and personal loan applications. Personal Loan processing has various modules for Customer Information, Loan Application verification, Loan Authorization, Loan Approval and Change history.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in software development life cycle (SDLC) of Financial Application.  • Used Spring Framework to support the Hibernate tool and Struts.  • Adapted various design patterns like MVC, Data Transfer Object (DTO'S), Business  delegate, Service Locator, Session Facade, Data Access Objects (DAO's)  • Utilized Web Service to perform credit card / debit card authentication and authorization.  • Involved in the migration from the XSL, XSLT, to latest technology using Struts, jsps.  • Involved in database schema design and review meetings.  • Understand the requirement specifications, design, develop and test the software solution of the requirements.  • Carried analysis of the database design, spotting the bottlenecks for slow response and creating optimal databases indices, introducing dynamic sqls in stored procedures in an effort to achieve performance improvement in database access layer.  • Performed feasibility, analysis and implementation of new open source technologies into the application in an effort to transform the application into more intuitive plug-in based Architecture.  • Used JMS for communicating various clients and its components.  • Used Maven for building the project.  • Developed web pages based on scripting technologies to generate web interface.  • Generated core java modules to implement the logic for generating the reports according to the client Specific Customizations.  • Involved in production support and fixing bugs.  • Coordinated between the business team and the technical team and provided the feasible technical solutions for the business requirements.  • Prepared unit test cases and integrated test cases.    Technical Environment: Java 1.6, JavaScript, Spring-MVC, Hibernate, Struts, JSP, Servlet, JDBC, JMS, XML, XSL/XSLT, Web-services, WebSphere, Maven, CVS, PL/SQL, Oracle 9i, JUnit, Windows NT. Java Developer St. Luke's Hospital - Chesterfield, MO June 2013 to October 2014 Description:  St.Luke's Hospital is one of the largest and most comprehensive health care systems. This system provides Patient Administration, Billing and Pharmacy Management functions for the hospital. This is a dynamic solution that enables to re-engineer their processes across departments, and improve workflow.    Responsibilities:  • Created Use Cases, Class Diagrams, and Sequence Diagrams for analysis and design of application.  • Involved in requirement analysis, design and development of Custom Controller Commands, task Commands and JSPs.  • Developed code using Java/J2EE, JDBC concepts.  • Developed several web pages to perform checking and validations at Client's end and Sever end validation based on the Business rules.  • Installed/Configured for setting up the environment for Struts Framework TO develop Java based MVC architecture.  • Established Connection between Java and Database.  • Analyzed the requirements and prepared the feasibility of the implementing the requirements.  • Created technical specification documents for the requirements.  • Developed the restful web service to provide an interface to the clients through other applications to access their documents.  • Used Maven for building the project.  • Deployed web and enterprise applications in Web logic application server 7.0.  • Developed Complex SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers and DB Packages in Oracle.  • Involved in project reviews and given information whenever required  • Performed unit test cases using JUnit and automating the test cases.  • Involved in development, build and deployment to QA.    Technical Environment: Java1.6, Struts Framework, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Servlet, Html, JavaScript, DAO, XML, JUnit, Weblogic, Maven, Unix, SQL, Windows NT/2000. Java Developer FedEx World Wide - Memphis, TN June 2012 to May 2013 Description:  This system was developed to track the Fed Ex services worldwide. The transportation of the products is taken care of by the transporting agents from pickup to drop-off. Users can track these shipments from pickup to drop-off and can find the status of their shipment at any given point of time. The transporting agencies kept the status of the shipment updated on a regular basis.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed UI using XSL and JavaScript, dynamic JSP and page validation using JavaScript.  • Involved in database schema design and review meetings.  • Created designs of documents using UML.  • Implemented test driven development of application.  • Used automated test scripts and tools to test the application in various phases Coordinated with Quality Control teams to fix issues that were identified.  • Used JUNIT to create test classes to test the Compliance Service code.  • Analyzed the requirements and coming up with the model to be followed.  • Used Struts Framework to implement the project.  • Developed unit test cases for multiple modules.  • Involved in end of day build preparation and weekly build preparation.  • Built projects in deployable files (EAR, WAR files and JAR files)  • Used various Java and J2EE APIs including JDBC, XML, JSP, and Java Beans.  • Used Stored Procedures for few backend calls.  • Written sql queries and stored procedures for backend calls.  • Involved in production support and fixing bugs.    Technical Environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, Jdbc, JavaScript, Java Beans, DAO, HTML, XML, Struts Framework, Eclipse IDE, Apache TomCat, ANT, JUnit, Oracle, Windows XP. Jr- Java Developer Delhi University - Delhi, Delhi November 2008 to April 2010 Description:  A Web application designed for students - to store their academic work/profiles/portfolios, faculty to set Goals, grade student submissions and employers - to review the entire student work for possible employment.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed UI using JSP, dynamic JSP and page validations using JavaScript.  • Involved in database schema design and review meetings.  • Configured application flow, controlling logic and navigation.  • Designed and developed base classes, framework classes and common re-usable components.  • Involved in re-factoring the existing components to meet the current application requirements.  • Used various Java and J2EE APIs including JDBC, XML, servlets, JSP, JavaBeans.  • Involved in performance tuning, debugging issues in testing and deployment phases.  • Coordinated on-site and off-shore development teams in various phases of the project.  • Used JUnit to implement test cases for Unit testing of modules.  • Extensively used ECLIPSE while writing code & used CVS for Version control.  • Involved in deploying web and enterprise applications in Apache TomCat.  • Developed Complex SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers and DB Packages in Oracle.    Technical Environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, Jdbc, JavaScript, HTML, XML, JavaBeans, Eclipse IDE, JUnit, Apache TomCat, Oracle 9i, SQL, Windows XP. Education Bachelors of Engineering in Databases JNT University