JAVA/J2EE DEVELOPER <span class="hl">JAVA</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> JAVA/J2EE DEVELOPER - HITACHI Pleasanton, CA, CA, CA, CA Over 7+ years of software development experience in object oriented programming, design and development of in Micro-Services, Web-Services, UI/Front End, Multi-Tier distributed, Enterprise applications and Mobile applications using Java and J2EE technologies with Software Development Life Cycle.  • Experience in Full life cycle development of Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Deploying n- tier/client-server applications using Java and Web technologies.  • Involved in design and developing web based enterprise applications using Core JAVA, J2EE and Advanced Java technologies.  • Worked on Java and related technologies - Core Java and J2EE - Servlets, JSP, JSF, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, JPA, JDBC, JNDI, JMS, XML, XSLT, JAX-WS, JAXB, SOAP/REST Web Services, AWS, WSDL, JAXB, JAAS  • Expertise in developing Web based Distributed and Front End applications in a three-tier architecture using Java, J2EE, HTML5, Backbone.js, bootstrap css, angular.js, Ajax, Node JS, JSP, Servlets, CSS, JavaBeans.  • Extensively worked on during my tenure in Software Development are Angular.js, React.js, Spring MVC, Spring Integration, Spring Batch, Apache POI, Hibernate, REST Web services, and Databases like Oracle.  • A very good understanding of Groovy and Grails.  • Used Core java Concepts based on Multithreading, concurrency, concepts, for updating the inventory using the I/O concepts.  • Experience in integrating UI code with server side platforms.  • Experience in developing mobiles apps on Android platform  • Extensively used Open Source Frameworks Spring, Struts MVC II, MVC and Hibernate, iBatis.  • Proficient in Administration, installation, configuration, and fine Tuning and Deployment procedures of Web applications with Apache Tomcat Server, IBMWeb Sphere as well BEAWeb logic Application Servers on various Operating Systems like Windows 98/NT/2000/XP, LINUX, SOLARIS.  • Extensive experience in using J2EE design patterns such as MVC (Model-View-Controller), Singleton, Session Facade, Service Locator, Singleton, DAO, DTO and Business Delegate, View Helper Pattern.  • Expertise in developing dynamic user interfaces, cross-browser event handling, DOM manipulation.  • Expertise in implementing Service Oriented Architectures (SOA) with XML (SOAP/UDDI/WSDL) and REST based Web Services  • Good experience in using Amazon Web Services (AWS) and AWS SNS/SQS for delivering messages  • Good at parsing XML using DOM parser.  • Experience in using various Configuration Management tools like GIT, CVS, SVN and Rational Clear Case.  • Experience with Use-case design, Class & Sequence diagrams using UML/Rational Rose.  • Experience in UNIX, LINUX and UNIX Shell Scripting.  • Good experience in database development using database engines like Oracle, SQL Server, MY SQL and DB2.  • Strong experience in coding using SQL, PL/SQL Stored Procedures/Functions  • Having Experience on UNIX commands and Deployment of Applications in Server.  • Extensive experience in designing MongoDB multi-shared cluster and monitoring with MMS.  • Focused on architecting NoSQL databases like Mongo, Cassandra and Cache database.  • Experience in using Amazon Web Services like EC2, S3.  • Experience in software configuration management using CVS, SVN and IBM ClearCase.  • Knowledge on Build tool Jenkins with configuring check styles, Test coverage.  • Extensively used Database tools like TOAD, SQL developer.  • Development of services that utilize AWS SDK's (Dynamo DB, EC2, Lambda)  • Proficient in Multi-threading, Synchronization, Collections, Exception handling using Java & J2EE technologies.  • Good working knowledge in building applications using Apache ANT and JUnit automated testing.  • Experienced in planning and executing the Projects using Agile and Waterfall methodologies.  • Exceptional ability to quickly master new concepts and capable of working in-group as well as independently with excellent communication skills.  • Strong to apply new tools and technologies in the projects, team player and goal oriented, with a commitment to excellence. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience JAVA/J2EE DEVELOPER HITACHI - Pleasanton, CA June 2017 to Present The High Technologies group is a software team that develops software (Hi-Frame & Hi-Recipe) for electron microscopes deployed in various fab locations throughout the world. The software is used to establish communication between various micro scopes using a central server    Responsibilities  • Designed, Developed and Tested modules for searching, sorting and viewing the Recipes.  • All the modules were developed using Java, JMS Queues, JDBC, jackrabbit Repository.  • Developed a search and view module for the Hi-Recipe where the user can type the name of the recipe on the Ext-JS UI and can view it, this also supports regex type expressions.  • Developed an email notification system whenever there is a same recipe with different version in the Jackrabbit Repo.  • Developed a user segregation feature where the administrator can give access rights based on user groups.  • Created tables for various modules in PostgreSQL.  • Developed a Recipe compare feature using Ext-JS UI, JDBC, J2EE where the user can compare two different recipes in the same Job File.  • Developed a Job compare feature using Ext-JS UI, JDBC, J2EE where the user can compare two different Job Files  • Developed automated UI test suite using in-built testing framework which was developed using selenium framework  • Upgraded the Jackrabbit Repo to simplify the process of archiving the Job Files.  • Upgraded the Publishing service to simplify the process of publishing job files to CS (Central Server)  • Upgraded the JBoss servers as a part of feature upgrade.  • Used log4j for logging, Junit for testing the modules  • Tested the services using Junit & have also developed integration test cases.    Environment: JDK 1.7, Eclipse Indigo, JBoss, Postgres SQL, ANT, JDBC, Ext-JS, DOM, XML, XSD, JAXB, Unix, CVS, JUnit, Log4j. JAVA/J2EE DEVELOPER AstraZeneca plc - Mountain View, CA December 2016 to June 2017 Mobile Competency Center (MCC platform) is a cloud platform where mobile app developers can use our micro services for rich mobile client applications. The mobile apps will be used by doctors and patients based on the disease, medicines and health condition of the patient.    Responsibilities  • Designed, Developed and Tested micro-services for cloud platform which will be used for various mobile apps.  • All the micro services were developed using Spring Boot.  • Developed a messaging micro-service - Publisher Service and Consumer Service which to publish and consume messages using Apache Kafka.  • Configured Apache Kafka and Zookeeper to handle all the failure scenarios.  • Developed a Scheduler Service to provide the health statistics of various micro services.  • Scheduler was predominantly developed using JDBC  • Wrote sql scripts as needed to query/update data from SQL Server data base  • Developed a Content Service which will polls the Adobe AEM server for data and stores it in a Mongo DB and the data is delivered to a mobile app by exposing ReST end points.  • Used Spring HATEOS for delivering hypermedia information in the HTTP response JSON payload  • Developed an Image Service using third party image service (Cloudinary) to deliver images based on device form factor.  • Image Service was used to display the images on smart phones, tablets and desktop.  • Image Service was also used to add filter and additional feature enhancements to the images shown to the client  • Upgraded the Security Service in order to simplify the process of authentication and authorization.  • The Spring Security Service was used to provide bypass the authentication once the gateway authenticates the user  • Developed API's to transfer data from AWS S3 bucket to other data storage services like Mongo DB, Hadoop.  • Have a good understanding of AWS EC2 and AWS S3  • Used log4j for logging, Junit for testing  • Tested the services using Junit & have also developed integration test cases.    Environment: JDK 1.8, IntelliJ, Spring MVC, Agile, REST services, AWS, MongoDB, Hibernate, Maven, JDBC, JSP, SQL Server, DOM, XML, XSD, JAXB, Unix, Bit Bucket, JUnit, Log4j. JAVA/J2EE DEVELOPER Cisco Inc - Atlanta, GA March 2014 to November 2016 V6 LIVE is SaaS application used to maintain the information of the numerous projects from order submission, till the delivery of the project to the customer. This application is used for better coordination between different roles (Roles includes Advertisers, Consultants, Sales Representative, Designers, Proofers and their respective manages)    Responsibilities  • Design and developed RESTful and SOAP web services for V6 Liveapplication.  • Developed common external services framework for clients using RESTful web services, SOAP to connect multiple backend systems with different protocols.  • Involved in analyzing requirements, designing flow, sequence diagrams, preparing design documents.  • Generated stubs and skeletons using maven xjc plugin from WSDL.  • Update user stories in Rally, create/update tasks for User Stories in Rally in an iteration.  • Generated JAXB objects from XSD (XML schemas) using maven plugins.  • Good understanding of multi-threading and concurrency concepts  • Implemented Multi-threading and concurrency to improve the overall efficiency of the code.  • REST Web services written in Groovy/Grails wrapped by Jersey JAX-RS  • Coded Groovy, domain class to handle the business logic.  • Used JAXB for processing of XML documents, modifying XML documents.  • Used Maven for compiling, building and installing Maven projects.  • Implement the Hibernate second level (EH-Cache) to reduce the data base cells  • Implemented Angular.js and Node.js with Spring MVC as model component.  • Developed custom Angular.JS directives, tags and integrated with spring forms.  • Writing the code to coordinate between middle tier and presentation tier.  • Developed ATG Droplets, Delegates for handling http requests from client.  • Used Spring MVC controllers, services, model and views.  • Design and developed JSP views for billing system application to send request to Spring Controllers and as presentation layer.  • Developed Client behavior components to interact with back end systems using SOAP web services.  • Create, parse XML documents using JAXB to send to back end system and process response from backend system.  • Used Spring Chain to carry forward the process in the flow.  • Used Hibernate for persistence, generated hibernate objects, configure hibernate mapping file.  Also used Ant for building of few applications.  • Developed the same the application using Android framework and deployed it in the cloud.  • The Android application was developed using HTML5, Java & JavaScript  • Deployed applications on Web logic application server, configure data sources to connect to oracle DB.  • Wrote sql scripts as needed to query/update data from SQL Server data base.  • Also involved in UI development for other modules which involved HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS  • Worked on merging different SVN modules with old revisions, coordinate with developers to resolve any conflicts.  • Used SVN repository for maintaining the code basis.  • Utilized AWS Lambda platform to upload data into AWS S3 buckets and to trigger other Lambda functions.  • Used log4j for logging, JMock, Junit for testing.  • Involved in Agile methodology, scrum meetings, stand ups to discuss status updates, progress, any issues.  Environment: JDK 1.7, Eclipse, Spring MVC, Agile, REST services, SOAP (CXF), AWS, MongoDB, Hibernate, Maven, JMS, WebLogic, ATG, JSP, SQL Server, XSLT, DOM, XML, XSD, JAXB, Unix, Ant, Angular JS, JQuery, JSF 1.2/2.0, Richfaces 3.3, Subversion (SVN), JUnit, Log4j. JAVA/J2EE DEVELOPER Motorola Mobility - Plantation, FL June 2012 to February 2014 Motorola Mobility is a cell phone manufacturing company. Most of the smart phones have Android OS. We have developed a highly configurable, scalable and web-based applications for the flagship Motorola smart phones.  Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with Manager, Business Analyst, development and testing team for designing and developing the application as per proposal.  • Interacted with the business users for gathering the requirements during design, development and implementation phases.  • Involved in the review of the BRD, HLD, LLD, Use Cases, Functional specifications, Test design of the application.  • Involved in design and develop the web application with the java.  • Resolved bugs and fixed issues related to Multi-threading and concurrency.  • Implemented the application using J2EEdesign patterns like Spring MVC (Model- View- Controller), Singleton, DAO, DTO (Data Transfer Object), Spring Web flow 2.0, Business Delegate, Business Object, Factory, Chain of responsibility, Adapter and SOA.  • Implemented MVC architecture using Spring Web MVC framework with integrated JSF.  • Developed the entire application implementing MVC Architecture integrating JSF with Hibernate and spring frameworks.  • Developing Hibernate Configuration files for MySQL 5.1, Oracle 10g &11g and Mongo DB.  • Composing the application classes as Spring Beans using Spring IOC/Dependency Injection.  • Developed various java objects (POJO) as part of persistence classes for ORM.  • Worked on JavaScript, JQuery and Servlets to generate dynamic web pages and web contents.  • Used MVC design pattern for designing application, JSP and CSS3 as the view component.  • Modified log4j for logging and debugging.  • Used AngularJS to create single page applications and pagination.  • Experience in working with the Columnar NoSQL Database like HBase, Cassandra to manage extremely large data sets  • Development and Debugging was done using Eclipse IDE.  • Prepared Unit test cases using JUnit and integration testing.  • Application was deployed using JBoss and used SQL Server as database server.  • Used Selenium test tool for web application testing.  • Implemented REST Full based Webservices.  • Implementation of the Business logic layer for Mongo DB Services.  • Used Jenkins build tool for Continuous Integration.  • Worked in developing the UI in HTML, CSS, JavaScript  • Also converted the UI code to JSP tags  • Implemented cache algorithms to decrease the overall execution time  • Building application and deployment in servers as per request from the QA team using Maven.  • Used Maven for version control and configuration management and changed multiple VCS for example CVS and SVN for respective advantage.  • Used JUnit for testing the application modules and Log4Jfor logging.  • Done unit testing using JUnit.  • Developed test scripts in Groovy to report application.  • Wrote the Groovy/Grails plugin to address security of Rich Text in Grails application.  • Designed and implemented a reporting system using Groovy.  • Monitoring team development activities, follow-up on the tasks and provide assistance.  • Working with development teams to troubleshoot development environment, production environment, and performance tune and optimize code.  • Providing onsite and on-call support for production and integration environments.  • Developed and Deployed the same application in Android and deployed it in local play store  • Also tested the application on Android Platform using Android adb commands.    Environment: J2EE, Java 7, Servlets, XML, JDBC, Hibernate, Struts 2.0, Maven, JavaScript, JSP 2.0, CSS3, Angular-js, JQuery, SOAP, JSF, Spring, Java Beans, REST, SQL Server, Mongo DB Linux, JAAS, Stored Procedures, Unix, Jenkins, JIRA, JMS, HTML5, UML, Selenium, JQuery, JAX-RS, JSON, Eclipse, JBoss, Agile Model, JSF 1.2/2.0, Richfaces 3.3 Log4j, SVN, Junit. JAVA DEVELOPER UnitedHealth Group Information Systems January 2010 to May 2012 Capitation is a per-member monthly payment to a provider that covers contracted services and is actuarially determined on the basis of costs expected to be incurred. This payment method is an alternative to a pure fee-for-service arrangement.  ECap: Enterprise Capitation solution to support provider reimbursement for HMO based commercial business within UnitedHealth Group. From the Unix/J2EE perspective the ECap project is comprised of two parts namely the Online Application and the Thin-Client Application.  Responsibilities:  • Online use JSP to control activity and the Thin-Client uses UNIX shell scripts to control activity. Developed UI for the Development of UI using JSP, model classes which handle the data from JSP and perform the business logic, controller classes which routes the request to appropriate action classes to handle the request.  • Perform validation using JavaScript and use AJAX to create more interactive web pages.  • Have 2 scripts for each environment one for internal reports and one for the adjustments email. Adjustment email script passes an argument to the performing class (RptClient)  • Developed JMS components to send messages from one application to other application internally  • The UNIX shell scripts are in turn initiated by a scheduler (AutoSys) which runs the internal reports three times a day and the adjustment email once a day.  • Developed various test cases and performance unit testing.  • Involved in enhancements coding.  • Prepare UTP, Peer review and code review docs.  Environment: Java/J2EE, JSP, Struts1.1, Oracle 9i, UNIX, Tomcat 5.5, Hibernate, AJAX. Education Bachelor's Skills Core Java1.7/1.6,JSP 2.1, Servlets 2.5, JDBC 3.0, JSTL 1.3, Custom tags, RMI, JAXB 2.0, SAX and DOM, Tiles, DOJO, Groovy/Grails. (7 years), IBM Web Sphere 6.x/5.x/4.x, Web sphere MQ, BEA Web Logic 10/9.2, Oracle Weblogic12c, JBOSS, and Tomcat4/5/6. (7 years), Struts1.2, 2.0, Spring Framework2.0/3.0, Spring web flow, JSF2/1, JMS, RichFaces 3.3 Hibernate5/4/3.0/3.1, IBatis2.0, IBM MQ series, Axis1.4/2.1.3, Apache CXF (7 years), SOAP, REST, WSDL, UDDI, AWS (7 years), Eclipse Kepler/Juno, My Eclipse8.0, WSAD 6.0, RAD, Net beans 4.1, BEA Weblogic Workshop. (7 years), Rational Rose, Microsoft Visio 2003, Visual Paradigm. (7 years), RUP, UML, J2EE design Patterns. (7 years), JUnit, log4j1.2, GIT, CVS, SVN, Rational Clear Case, Source Tree and GIT Hub. (7 years), Windows 7/XP, UNIX (SOLARIS), LINUX, ANDROID. (7 years), Oracle 11g/10g/9i/8i, MS SQL Server 2008/2008r2, MS Access, MySQL, NoSQL, Mongo DB, Cassandra (7 years), TOAD 9.0 and SQL Developer Client tools. (7 years), AJAX, JQuery,JavaScript,Angular.JS, React.JS (7 years), Maven3.0, Ant 1.5/1.7, Perl, PHP, Java Script, UNIX. (7 years), HTML 5.0/4.0, XML 1.1, XSL, XSLT, DHTML. (7 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Java & J2EE Technologies Core Java1.7/1.6, JSP 2.1, Servlets 2.5, JDBC 3.0, JSTL 1.3, Custom tags, RMI, JAXB 2.0, SAX and DOM, Tiles, DOJO, Groovy/Grails.  Web/Application Servers IBM Web Sphere 6.x/5.x/4.x, Web sphere MQ, BEA Web Logic 10/9.2, Oracle Weblogic12c, JBOSS, and Tomcat4/5/6.  Frameworks & Middleware  Struts1.2, 2.0, Spring Framework2.0/3.0, Spring web flow, JSF2/1, JMS, RichFaces 3.3 Hibernate5/4/3.0/3.1, IBatis2.0, IBM MQ series, Axis1.4/2.1.3, Apache CXF    Web Services SOAP, REST, WSDL, UDDI, AWS  Development Tools/IDE's Eclipse Kepler/Juno, My Eclipse8.0, WSAD 6.0, RAD, Net beans 4.1, BEA Weblogic Workshop.  Design Methodologies RUP, UML, J2EE design Patterns.  Design Tools Rational Rose, Microsoft Visio 2003, Visual Paradigm.  Open Source JUnit, log4j1.2, GIT, CVS, SVN, Rational Clear Case, Source Tree and GIT Hub.  Platforms Windows 7/XP, UNIX (SOLARIS), LINUX, ANDROID.  Databases Oracle 11g/10g/9i/8i, MS SQL Server 2008/2008r2, MS Access, MySQL, NoSQL, Mongo DB, Cassandra  Database Tools TOAD 9.0 and SQL Developer Client tools.  Web Development AJAX, JQuery, JavaScript, Angular.JS, React.JS  Scripting Languages Maven3.0, Ant 1.5/1.7, Perl, PHP, Java Script, UNIX.  Markup Languages HTML 5.0/4.0, XML 1.1, XSL, XSLT, DHTML.