AEM Developer AEM <span class="hl">Developer</span> AEM Developer - BCBSFL Jacksonville, Florida Jacksonville, FL • 7+ years of IT experiences in developing and implementing Enterprise Solutions for Distributed Software products and applications using JAVA technology, CQ5 / AEM and Adobe Campaign.  • Experience working with digital technologies and Adobe Marketing Cloud (Adobe AEM, Adobe Campaign, Adobe Target and Adobe Analytics)  • Worked on design and implementation of modules on AEM6.3, AEM6.2, AEM 6.1, AEM 6.0, AEM 5.6.1.  • Experienced in developing CMS based applications using Adobe CQ/AEM Apache Sling and OSGI.  • Proficient in Adobe CQ foundation concepts, including the CRX repository, the CQ platform, the use of core frameworks such as Apache Sling and Apache Felix.  • Have a solid understanding of CQ5 building blocks, CRX repository, leveraging web content management components for customization and porting of websites.  • Setup and configure Authoring and Publishing environments, replication agents.  • Developed custom CQ components on top of JCR ( Java Content Repository) and Apache Sling, CRX/Apache Jackrabbit Oak (Day's commercial JCR Implementation)  • Worked on Adobe CQ Digital asset management (AEM Assets)  • Good web page design skills using HTML, CSS, Sightly, jQuery and Java Script.  • Experienced in using CRXDE and Eclipse IDEs to develop CMS applications.  • Implemented Adobe CQ templates, components, workflow, style sheets, Meta tagging and performed CMS administration tasks.  • Strong experience with setting up AEM/CQ5 using Maven and standard Eclipse tools.  • Exposure to dispatcher configurations as part of AEM website architecture.  • Created custom sling bundles as part of new functionalities provided to CQ sites.  • Good knowledge of Java Content Repository (API) suite, Sling web framework and Apache Felix OSGi framework.  • Experience with multi lingual websites having i18n translations.  • Having good Knowledge working with Web Services especially based on Rest API.  • Hands on experience in Java/JEE technology areas like JSP, Servlets, EJB, JPA, spring, Hibernate, and SOA applications.  • Experienced in developing enterprise applications using MVC frameworks such as Struts, Spring MVC.  • Experience developing UI for the applications using JSP, HTML, XML, XSLT, CSS, JavaScript and Ajax.  • Experience in using jQuery, Ext JS and Angular JS, JavaScript libraries.  • Experience working with Bug tracking tools like QC, JIRA, Bugzilla.  • Good experience in coordinating and working with developers (Offshore and Onsite) and End Users in Team based environment.  • Proven problem solving, analysis and leadership skills. Capable of performing under minimal supervision as well.  • Extensive exposure to different Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodologies like Agile, RAD, Waterfall models.  • Worked on Agile PLM methodology. Work Experience AEM Developer BCBSFL Jacksonville, Florida - Jacksonville, FL April 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Creating and maintain customer-facing Adobe AEM 6.2 content management systems.  • Involved in content migration from AEM 6.2 to AEM 6.3.  • Designing blueprint site using MSM tool.  • Creating custom bundles for environment specific configuration and versioning for client libraries.  • Modifying Templates, Client libraries and Page components, Packages.  • Creating and managing workflows for pages.  • Involved in setting up Adobe Campaign Platform.  • Worked in integration Adobe AEM and Adobe Campaign.  • Created Email templates in Adobe AEM to be used in multi touch campaigns.  • Creating Custom components according to client requirement.  • Development of static web pages, landing pages, category landing pages.  • Provide estimates, designs, and specifications for CQ5 templates, components, and workflows.  • Translated design specs into responsive UI component for web using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, jQuery, AngularJS, JavaScript.  • Setup and configure Author and Publish environments, Replication agents, Reverse Replication agents, Flush agents, Dispatcher and Web Servers.  • Working on JCR API's and Sling API's for retrieving content from JCR repository.  • Built various web pages using HTML, CSS, Java Script and jQuery.  • Worked on developing end to end login and product detail view workflows.  • Worked on CQ5 Forms customization by developing the custom form fields, writing the custom constraints for form fields and specifying the global validation resource type at the form level.    Environment: Adobe AEM 6.2, CRXDE, CQ5 DAM, JCR, Sling, Java, J2EE, Apache Maven, Eclipse, JS, JIRA, Servlets, JSP, HTML5, CSS3, REST, XML, Git. Adobe CQ5 Developer Capital One - Chicago, IL January 2016 to February 2017 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for setting up Author and Publish environment.  • Responsible for setting up the Author permissions for various author groups and coordinating with the Dev team and perform build and deploying the components.  • Responsible for design, development and unit and integration testing of CQ components, templates and the corresponding web services.  • CQ5 related design and framework development and Architecture using templates, components widgets, CQ5 bundle, JCR/Sling API, clustering publish and author and editing content with the help of widgets.  • Design and development of web pages using CQ5, JavaScript, AngularJS, HTML, CSS, Ajax and jQuery.  • Developed Adobe CQ5 templates and reusable components. Developed custom workflow process.  • Actively participate in the design of projects or review proposed designs to ensure application integrity and performance. Responsible to configure the rules in Dispatcher for the new modules.  • Configuring Dispatchers, Flushing Dispatcher cache, CQ server optimization, CQ Log analyzing, Garbage collector etc.  • Well versed with core Java concepts like Collections, Multithreading, Remote Method Invocation (RMI) and Serialization.  • Enhanced CQ5 personalization engine to surface the CQ5 content on portal using JavaScript and Sling script based on segment and LDAP user profile attributes.  • Design & Development using Java/J2EE, Web Services, Struts, XML, AJAX and Deployed on Web Sphere 6.1 Application Server running on Unix.    Environment: AEM 6.1, CQ 5.6, Java/J2EE, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSP, Servlets, Apache Sling, WCM, CRX, CRXDE Lite, SVN, Jackrabbit, JCR, Oracle 11g. Java/J2EE Developer Processing Point - Carlsbad, CA September 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Participating in user requirement sessions to gather business requirements.  • Front-end web development (HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XSLT)  • Developed front end for the website using HTML, XHTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Table less Design in CSS for positioning.  • Involved in Analysis, Design, Development, Integration and Testing of application modules.  • Used Eclipse IDE for coding, debugging and testing the application modules.  • Developed presentation layer for the application modules using JSP, HTML, and CSS.  • Integrated JavaScript with Flex application using External Interface API.  • Extensively worked on java concepts such as OOP, Exceptional handling and Collection frameworks.  • Involved in configuring hibernate to access database and retrieve data from the database.  • Solved production issues and tickets on their priority basis and bug tracking.  • Developed Front End Pages Using HTML, CSS and JavaScript, Web design and development, application development using Photoshop, HTML, JavaScript and Dreamweaver.  • Developed complex SQL queries to perform the back-end testing of the Oracle database using SQL and UNIX shell commands.  • Application designed and developed using Java Core, J2EE, JMS, JavaScript, Struts, Hibernate, AOP CSS, Web Services Axis, and AJAX.  • Implemented functionality using Servlet, JSP, HTML and Struts Framework, Hibernate, spring, Java Scripts and Web logic.  • Performed Unit testing and White Box testing on a regular basis.    Environment: Java/J2ee, JSP, spring, JSON, Hibernate, REST/SOAP WebServices, SQL, CSS, SDLC, JavaScript, Eclipse, HTML, XHTML, XML, AJAX, UNIX, Design Patterns, JMS, JSTL, Junit. Jr. Java/Web Developer PNC Bank Pittsburg - PA July 2012 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  • Contributed to the entire Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), involving creation of business requirements document, technical requirements document, code development and testing.  • Created UML class diagrams that depict the code's design and its compliance with the functional requirements.  • Used Servlets to create the front end; manipulated the web.xml file.  • Designed several complex SQL queries involving sub queries and multiple joins.  • Extensively used the JDBC Prepared Statement to embed the SQL queries into the java code. Implemented the DAO pattern.  • Configured Data Sources on Web Sphere Test Environment 5.0 for efficient data access.  • Created complex SQL queries, PL/SQL queries and stored procedures to generate test records in the development database tables.  Environment: Apache Tomcat, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, MySQL. Java/JEE Developer ExtJs - Milpitas, CA February 2010 to June 2012 Responsibilities:  • Implemented development process on Software Development Life Cycle.  • Involved in data Integration and Documents module.  • Involved in using HTML, DHTML, Java Script, AJAX, ExtJs, JQUERY, JSP and Struts Tag Libraries to develop view pages.  • Involved in doing analysis on DB Schema as per new design in DB2 from Oracle.  • Implemented Java code and design as per the SONAR and coding guidelines.  • Involved in using Core java concepts - Collections, Exception Handling, Multi-Threading and Serialization.  • Involved in preparation of developer test cases, execution and preparation of scope & traceability matrix.  • Utilized JBoss for web server.  • Used Struts framework to inject services, entity services, transaction management, and concerns by factory class corresponding to the use case operation executing.  • Worked on XML POC for inbound and out bound XML into database using SAX Parser.  • Implemented business logic components using POJOs.  • Application code investigation, code cleanup and code repository maintenance.  • Created dynamic attributes in a JSP page using the struts concept.  • Analyzed WSDLs as per wire frames, UI pages & generated client jars.  • Involved in creating internal & external services, Entity services and handlers.  • Involved in writing SQL queries & PL/SQL - Stored procedures, function, triggers, cursors, object types, Cursors, sequences, indexes etc.  • Implemented Struts framework (Action and Controller classes) for dispatching request to appropriate class.  • Involved in JBoss server configurations, Data Sources, Connection Pooling, and deploying the apps on different servers in different envs like Local/Dev/QA/Production.  • Used JavaScript, JQuery for the client end data validations.  • Involved in creating JUNIT test cases and ran the TEST SUITE.  • Ran check style, Applause defects & Find bugs and fixed them.  • Involved in fixing defects identified in QA and Dev phases. Also tracked Applause status as per the guild lines.  • Involved in creating XML inbound & outbound flows using XSTL.  • Involved in doing Unit testing using MOKITO and also Integration testing.  • Involved in peer level design & code reviews.  • Used SVN for version and source control.  • Involved in capacity planning, performance tuning and monitoring of JVM.  • Supported Dev, QA and builds and identified issues in Smoke testing and tracked them efficiently.  • Involved in building the code using Ant & deployed on server.    Environment: JAVA 1.6, J2EE, DAO, HTML, JSP, Boot strap, Java Script, XML, CSS, Ajax, ExtJs, JBoss, EJB, Oracle 11g, Log4J, Struts Tag Libraries, Eclipse 3.1, Ant 1.6, Struts 2.0, JAVA/J2EE Design Patterns, Edit Plus, DB2, Oracle, SVN, SQL developer, Windows 10. Education Bachelor's Skills CSS (8 years), HTML (8 years), JAVASCRIPT (8 years), JSP (8 years), XML (8 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Enterprise Web Product Adobe AEM 6.3, 6.2, 6.1, 6.0, 5.6.  Operating Systems Windows 7, Windows 8, Linux, Android, Unix  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, JavaScript, DHTML, XHTML, Angular JS, jQuery, Bootstrap, J2EE, XML, JSON, AJAX, JSP, Slightly, Servlets, JSTL.  Build Tools Maven and Jenkins  Frameworks Spring, Struts, Hibernate, Apache Sling, Apache Felix.  Databases Oracle, SQL Server 2012/2008/2005, MS Access, MongoDB  IDE & Repositories NetBeans, CRDXE lite, Brackets, Eclipse, Bower, Grunt, Bit bucket, TFS, GitHub, Jenkins, JIRA.  Web/App Servers AWS, JBoss, WebSphere 8.0 (beta), WebLogic and Tomcat 5.0/6.0/7.0.