Sr.Mule ESB Developer Sr.Mule ESB <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr.Mule ESB Developer - Capgemini Government Solutions McLean, VA • 8+years of Extensive experience in the field of software development Mulesoft Technology.  • Experience with implementing service-oriented architecture (SOA) and enterprise application integration (EAI) using Mule soft and Java.  • Experience in analysis, design, development, testing, deployment and monitoring of EAI & ESB projects.  • Experience in designing, developing and managing APIs using Mule API gateway.  • Expert level skills with REST and SOAP web services, RAML and use of connectors for integration.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as requirement gathering by assisting with JAD sessions, modeling, analysis, architecture design and development using AGILE methodology.  • Experience in deploying applications into MuleSoft Cloudhub and MMC.  • Hands on experience on transformation using Data Weave/Data mapper.  • Ability to troubleshoot Mule ESB (debuggers/flow analyzers), deployment, and tuning.  • Good understanding of SOA and ESB concepts, integration patterns and best practices.  • Good experience in using Transformers, Filters, Flow Control, Collection splitters/Aggregators / Scatter- Gather etc.  • Programming experience with Java, JavaScript, Groovy.  • Experienced in J2EE, Java Servlets, JMS, EJB, Design Patterns, Web services and building integration projects using any integration tool.  • Experience in three-tier Client/Server development architecture and Distributed Computing Architecture.  • Excellent understanding of full Software Development Life Cycle.  • Excellent interpersonal, management, analytical, problem solving abilities and communication skills.  • Ability to work as part of team and independently also quickly adapt and learn new technologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr.Mule ESB Developer Capgemini Government Solutions - McLean, VA March 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis, Design, Development and Testing process. Interacted with the client & designed Technical design document from Business Requirements for the development.  • Developed API isolate/integration layers using IBM API connect (YAML).  • Adhere to Mulesoft API led Architecture standards.  • Develop API isolate/integration layers using MuleSoft Design Center (RAML)  • Create custom policies and proprietary Mulesoft authentication mechanism (Client ID enforcement and basic authentication)  • Worked on Authentication by using OAuth 2.0and SSL  • Using API kit router, generate end to end application flows for appropriate resource routing.  • Hands on Experience in creating applications for data conversions using dataweave in Mule 4.  • Build application jar files and deploy to on-premise servers using Jenkins CI/CD pipelines.  • Writing Munit test cases for applications.  • Create appropriate documentation and publish to mulesoft Exchange.  Environment: Anypoint Studio 7.3.1, RAML 1.0, IBM API connect (YAML), MUnit, DataWeave 2.0, Mule Server Runtime 4.1.1 - 4.1.3, CloudHub, ORACLE and DB2 databases. Mule ESB Developer CITI BANK - New Castle, DE May 2017 to February 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirements gathering, analysis, design, development, testing and Maintenance phases of Application. Implementing the project in agile methodologies - sprint & scrum.  • Effectively participated in weekly client communications with Business Analysts.  • Involved in creating HTTP inbound & outbound flows and orchestration using XPath using MULE ESB.  • Developing applications in Anypoint studio 6.1.2 IDE and used RAML 1.0 for generating Raml files.  • Hands on Experience in MuleSoft Anypoint API platform on designing and implementing Mule APIs using RAML and applying Auto discovery and API Gateway.  • Extensively used Mule Connectors like HTTP, Transform Message, FTP, FILE, SFTP, SalesForce etc as part of Integration Usage.  • Utilized custom logging framework for Mule ESB application.  • Used GIT to maintain source code management and versioning.  • Implemented build package tool using Maven.  • Involved in converting data formats such as Cobol, XML, CSV and JSON.  • Used Core Java concepts like Collections, Generics, Exception handling, IO, Concurrency to develop business logic.  • Extensively used data weave 1.0 and 2.0 expressions for transformations in Data weave.  • Responsible for deploying all the service components to Dev and QA environment.  • Involved in migration from Mule 3 to Mule 4 projects.  • Involved in doing MUNIT testing for end to end flows, and ran the Test Suites to generate reports.    Environment: Anypoint Studio 6.1.2 - 7.3.1, RAML 0.8 and 1.0, Salesforce connector, MUnit Anypoint Studio plugin, Data Weave, Mule Server Runtime 3.8.3 - 4.1.3, Scopes-Polls, CloudHub, Anypoint MQ, Apache-Maven 3.3.9. Programmer Analyst Verizon - Tampa, FL June 2016 to April 2017 Responsibilities:  • Analyzing functional business applications and design specifications for functional areas and developed software code to meet business requirements.  • Interacting with the Business Analyst and Host to understating the requirements using the Agile methodologies and Scrum meeting to keep track and optimizing the end client needs.  • Translated detailed design specifications into computer software; tests, debugs, and refines the computer software to produce the required product.  • Involved in the development of Database Connections and Database Operations using JDBC.  • Used GIT to maintain source and version management.  • Using JIRA to manage the issues/project work flow.  • Created WAR/EAR files from Maven and deployed them on Web Sphere.  • Build and deploy the application using Maven.  • Involved in Analysis, Design and Development of Trade Review Alerts using Agile-Scrum Methodology.  • Consuming and exposing various Web services using JSON to different systems for business services.  • Prepared required documentation, including both program - level and user - level documentation.  • Enhanced software to reduce operating time or improve efficiency.    Environment: Java/J2EE, JDK 1.7, Eclipse IDE, GIT, Maven, Websphere, Junit, Agile-Scrum. Java Developer Virginia Dept. of taxation - Richmond, VA December 2014 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in analyzing and collecting user requirements.  • Participated in Server side and Client side programming.  • Analyzed user requirements developed conceptual data model, prepared process data flow diagrams.  • Wrote functional specifications, designed screens, prepared documentation for coding and front-end validations.  • Written stored procedures (PL/SQL).  • Contributed to the Logical Data Model design.  • Extensively used Eclipse for application development.  • Used JDBC to connect to database.  • Created user Interfaces through HTML and JSP.  • Involved in developing various Servlets.  • Participated in unit testing and integration testing.  • Tested and validated the application on different testing environments.  • Deployed the application on Web logic application server.    Environment: Windows NT, Java, JSP 1.2, Servlets 2.2, Oracle 8.0, JDBC 2.0, JBoss. Java Developer Lionbridge Technologies - Waltham, MA July 2012 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • Working knowledge of relational databases  • Experience developing Dropwizard or Spring Boot services  • Familiarity with CI/CD build automation  • Familiarity creating and using Docker/Kubernetes/OpenShift  • Experience working with remote teams  • Hands-on experience with Cassandra is highly desirable  • Experience working with Cloud environments and technologies (AWS preferred Java Developer SMART IT People - Raleigh, NC September 2010 to June 2012 Responsibilities:  • Hands-on experience in architectural patterns, micro-services, messaging/event driven frameworks and enterprise databases  • Hands-on experience in designing and developing SOAP and RESTful Web Services with Java technologies and strong server side development with Java, J2EE, JUnit, and Tomcat.  • Experience with Open Source Frameworks - Spring boot, Spring Core  • Knowledge of messaging frameworks such as Kafka, Tibco EMS or JMS  • Background in enterprise integration frameworks such as Apache Camel  • Expertise with Oracle PL/SQL.  • Hands on experience in test automation at various levels of testing (unit, component, integration and functional tests).  • Experience in working with AWS Cloud based infrastructure is a plus. Education Bachelor's Skills Eclipse, Java, jquery, Jsp, Git, Html, Json, Svn, Xml, Db2, Oracle, Sql, Jira, Css, Linux, Mac, Mac os, Javascript, Sql Server