Sr. ODM Developer Sr. ODM <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. ODM Developer - JP Morgan Chase Columbus, OH ? Around 8 Years of experience in application development using Object Oriented software architecture, analysis, design, development & implementation of Enterprise Systems.  ? Around 4 Years of experience in IBM Operational Decision Manager (ODM 8.0/8.7/8.9) with complex business use cases.  ? Proficient in Java, JSP, Java Script, J2EE, Spring Framework, Hibernate, MQ, HTML, JDBC, XML, EJB, JMS, SQL, PL\SQL, Oracle 9i and 10g, SQL Server, Sybase and Tomcat.  ? Proficient in developing and generating ODM's XOM, BOM, DVS, rule flows and deployment configurations.  ? Hands on experience with ODM consoles (business & enterprise) and Decision warehouse management.  ? Good knowledge of concepts in Java like OOPS and Exception Handling.  ? Experience in developing enterprise applications using IDE tools like IBM RAD, Web Logic Workshop, Web Sphere Studio Application Developer (WSAD), Eclipse and STS.  ? Experience in using Web Logic Application Server and WebSphere Application Server.  ? Experience in creating connection pools, configuring JMS Server, creating topics and managing queues.  ? Good command over UNIX commands for working with data in deployment phase.  ? Had a good knowledge on Java Naming and Directory Interface.  ? Created customized application commands/procedures using Shell scripting.  ? Extensively worked with Java Servlets, JSP, JavaScript and Struts, HTML tags and tiles (to create layouts)  ? Experience in working with EJB2.0, EJB3.0 and developed several State less, Stateful Session Beans and Entity Beans and MDBs.  ? Experience in Publishing and consuming Web services using SOAP.  ? Involved in the development of multiple interfaces to interact with Java GUI's and other legacy systems and modules.  ? Good hands on experience with JDK 1.6 more than 4 years.  ? Had a good knowledge on RMI - Java Remote Method Invocation.  ? Worked with SQL to create field-domains, tables, table-spaces and views.  ? Extensively used JUnit for writing automated test cases in Test Driven Development during application development and testing the legacy code for optimization.  ? Experience in using the open source tools Log4j, Maven, ANT build tool and JUnit test Framework.  ? Excellent organizational, interpersonal and communicational skills. Comfortable working both independently and in a team environment. Fast learning, self-motivated, hard working. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. ODM Developer JP Morgan Chase - Columbus, OH January 2018 to Present Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Work with business to get business rules needed for the application.  ? Prepare Rules design specifications for the feature.  ? Author business rules, rule flows using Rule Designer.  ? Create Business Object Model (BOM) for business rules development.  ? Create Execution Object Model (XOM) for business rules execution.  ? Was part of Rule App Migration from ODM 8.7 to ODM 8.9.  ? Sync and Maintain business rule applications in the Decision Center.  ? Follow Rule Governance to schedule releases and branches needed for the applications.  ? Deploy rule applications to Rule Execution Server - Decision Server.  ? Installed and configured ODM 8.7/8.9 on WAS and MAINFRAME servers.  ? Installed Apars, fix packs to overcome Application server problems, Installing JDK upgrades, fixes.  ? Prepare Java/J2EE development structure for Maven.  ? Train Business users on Decision Center (rule authoring, version management, deployment to Rule Execution Server etc.)  ? Develop rule interfaces using Java/J2EE.  ? Involved in unit test processing with Decision Validation Service testing and service level testing.  ? Debug and troubleshoot rule applications.  ? Perform code commits to SVN and Sync with Decision Center.  ? Build and Deploy Rule Apps to Nexus Repo and Rule Execution Servers using Jenkins, IBM Urban Code.  ? Assembled and Deployed the application in staging, in productions, following change management practices and 24/7 support, worked in shifts.  ? Provide Application support in testing, identifying issues and tracking bugs and solving the problems.  ? Support Development, Integration, User Acceptance Testing and Production Deployment.  ? Develop Proof of Concept - Decision Server Insights (DSI)  Environment: IBM ODM Rule Designer 8.7.1/8.9, IBM WebSphere, JRule, JDK 1.7, Core Java, XML, XSD, Oracle, IBM Urban Code Sr. ODM Developer State Farm Insurance - Bloomington, IL December 2013 to January 2018 Description: IBM® Operational Decision Manager is a full-featured, easy-to-use platform for capturing, automating and governing frequent, repeatable business decisions. They form the platform for managing and executing business rules and business events to help you make decisions faster, improve responsiveness, minimize risks and seize opportunities. It improves business insight and outcomes and helps you detect opportunities and risks. It also enables you to implement, test and deploy decision changes and understand how decisions are made and apply them consistently across processes and applications    Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Involved in business interactions and development of Execution Object Model and Business Object Model.  ? Developed critical rule flows with nested sub flows involved.  ? Involved in unit test processing with Decision Validation Service testing and service level testing.  ? Assisted users in rule authoring in both business and enterprise console.  ? Analysis and contribute to the performance of Rule Execution Server.  ? Detailed design and developed XML structure to interact with ruleset.  ? Developed client applications with real time data feed that needed for rule executions.  ? Created Rule App and client files and executed Sql queries for testing.  ? Involved in topology design and setting up all environments with Decision center and RES.  ? Designed and developed client applications for the ODM rule apps.  ? Co-ordinated with LDAP group to setup users and ODM groups for decision center and RES login.  ? Played an active role in testing the application by testing the application for different scenarios and in production bug fixing.  ? Prepare Java/J2EE development structure for Maven.  ? Involved in coding for JUnit Test cases.  ? Used Rule designer for rule flow design, coding and developing applications.  ? Responsible for Integration testing and System testing.  Environment: IBM ODM Rule Designer 8.0/8.7.1/8.8.0.1, IBM WebSphere, JRule, JDK 1.7, Core Java, XML, XSD, Oracle Java Developer Goldman Sachs - Chicago, IL December 2012 to November 2013 Description: AMR is the Account Transactions Management and Reconciliation system developed by Goldman Sachs. The AMR offers a more effective tool for account management, client reporting and account reconciliation. It provides the user with real time information consolidated views, and various different viewing options. The Mission of the AMR is to create one entry point for a common, consolidated view while offering quality real time data. AMR is a multi-tier architecture based application. Front end is made of JQuery API and Spring MVC components. Middle tier is integrated with spring and which is running on web sphere server.    Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Development, testing and software support for Cloud user and admin portals.  ? Leveraged Spring to implement the use cases that require reusability and performance.  ? Designed components based on Object-Oriented Analysis.  ? Implemented Spring Modules like IOC (Dependency Injection) and Spring Aspect Oriented Programming (AOP)  ? Wrote number of test cases using JUnit with Easy mock implementation for testing different actions and functions.  ? Exposing and consuming the services to the downstream applications using Spring WS.  ? Used Hibernate 3.0 in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  ? Build use cases components create design documents with different UML diagrams using Microsoft VISIO.  ? Played an active role in testing the application by testing the application for different scenarios and in production bug fixing.  ? Prepare Java/J2EE development structure for Maven.  ? Used Maven for building and deployment purpose.  ? Involved in coding for JUnit Test cases.  ? Used Eclipse IDE for designing, coding and developing applications.  ? Responsible for Integration testing and System testing.  Environment: Java/J2EE, spring, Hibernate, UNIX, Shell Scripting, SOAP UI, Web Services, SVN, Axis2, Oracle, Eclipse, Web Sphere, CRUD, JUnit, Maven, Agile, XML. Java Developer CAPITAL ONE BANK - Plano, TX May 2011 to November 2012 Description: Visa Buxx is US bank online portal which is intended for teenagers and is a server-based transaction processing system which enables businesses to authorize, process, and manage credit card transactions securely in a real-time, online environment from any computer with an Internet connection and a Web browser. The secure US bank Payment Gateway allows the Card member to conduct secure transactions on the Internet using the industry standard Secure Socket Layer (SSL) technology, and Works to cater Enterprise customers and stakeholders.    Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  ? AGILE development methodology has been followed to develop the application.  ? Application developed in spring framework 3.x, Hibernate, EJB.  ? Implemented spring as dependency injection framework and Hibernate as database ORM framework.  ? Designed, coded and configured server side J2EE components like Servlets, JMS, JNDI, JTS, XML.  ? Deployed applications on Web sphere 8.1 Application Server.  ? Test cases have been written by using JUnit framework. Written Integration tests for the DAO layer using Spring Bean Injection.  ? Used JMS ( Java Messaging Service) API for mailing detailed notifications depending upon the success and failure once the backend process is completed and also for mailing administrator of any system related problems.  ? Involved in writing the database integration code using Hibernate.  ? Developed Session Façade objects using Stateless Session Beans for having single point of control for a business service.  ? Involved in developing SQL and Stored procedures with the databases Oracle and IBM DB2.  ? Implemented Web Services in Apache Axis runtime environment using SOA protocol.  ? Used these Web Services to interact with other application in organization using SOAP and WSDL file.  ? Spring framework is used to implement Inversion of Control (IOC) and Aspect Oriented programming (AOP)  ? Object Relational Mapping is implemented using Hibernate.  ? Used Hibernate Query language and the Hibernate Criteria Queries to do the database operations.  ? XML Transformations where done using XML, XSL, XSLT, and XPATH.  ? Used MAVEN to build the project into WAR and EAR files and SVN for version controlling.  Environment: JDK 1.6, J2SE, J2EE, JMS, JSP, EJB, Servlets, Struts, Tiles, JSTL, Spring 3.x, Hibernate, RAD 6.0, Maven, Web sphere 8.1 Server, Oracle 11g, Web Services, JAAS, SOAP, Agile, JUnit, AJAX, PL/SQL, XML, Log4j, HTML, CSS, Java Script, Design patterns, SVN. Java Developer Berkley technology services, Iowa, IA February 2010 to April 2011 Description: Berkley risk is a national provider for insurance management and strategic planning services that designs, implements and manages a wide variety of alternative market property and casualty programs to help the customer control their total cost of risk. Main aim of this project is to allow customers to select their required insurance plain, we use JSP, java scripts and Struts a front end, hibernate to get the data from the data base and oracle as a database.    Responsibilities:  ? Followed agile software methodology for software development.  ? Involved in analysis, design, coding and testing phases of software development.  ? Developed Presentation layer with Struts 1.3 and JSP and Java script.  ? Developed Custom tags to display Home Mortgage Consultant, Branch and Joint venture specific information.  ? Developed Struts Action classes and Validation classes using Struts controller component and Struts validation framework.  ? Design and development of User Interfaces and menus using HTML, JSP, JavaScript, client side and server side validations.  ? Used Spring Hibernate template to access relational DBMS via Hibernate.  ? Resolved critical bugs.  ? Developed test cases using JUNIT, and followed test first development.  ? Resolved issues and dependencies with components of different subsystems by effectively communication with other groups.  ? Used UNIX in Deployment phase.  ? Used UNIX commands for manipulating the Log files.  ? Used RAD as IDE.  ? Implemented Hibernate as Object Relational Mapping (ORM) framework for mapping object-oriented domain model to Oracle database  ? Prototyped and used HTML, CSS to build the user interface for Configuration Manager Component.  ? Created customized application commands/procedures using Shell scripting.  ? Involved in writing SQL statements.  ? Involved in development in core java using Collections (Hash Map, List)  ? Used MVC design pattern as part of application development.  ? Use Log4j for logging Errors.  ? Involved in deployment of the application on Web Sphere Application Server.  Environment: J2EE, MVC Architecture, Struts 1.3, Spring Framework, Java, Hibernate, JSP, Servlets, JUnit, XML, HTML, JavaScript, Oracle, CVS, Windows XP, WSAD, WebSphere Application Server 6.0. Education Bachelors in Computer Sciences Vasavi College of Engineering - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills J2EE (8 years), JAVA (8 years), ORACLE (8 years), XML (8 years), SQL (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Programming: Java, J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL.  Tools and ID Environments: IBM RAD 8.0, JDeveloper, Eclipse, TOAD, Spring Tool Suite.  Web Technologies: J2EE, EJB 2.0, Servlets, JSP, Java Beans, MQ, spring 3.0,  Hibernate, XML, Java Script, Web Services, JMS, Struts 1.2,  JSTL, HTML, CSS, XSL and Log4j.  Application Servers: Web logic 8.0, Web sphere Application Server8.0, JBoss 5.0.  Web Servers: Apache Tomcat 5.0.  Database environments: Oracle 9i, Oracle 10g, SQL Server and Sybase.  Versioning Tools: Subversion (SVN), Visual Source Safe, and CVS  Build tools: Maven 2.0, ANT  Operating systems: Windows XP, Windows NT/2000, UNIX, Solaris 8.0, Linux  Architectures: Struts, MVC architecture and J2EE, Singleton, Data Access  Rules Engine: IBM ODM 8.0/8.7, IBM ODM 8.9