Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - MB Financial Bank Ann Arbor, MI, MI • Over 7 years of IT experience as a Full Stack/UI Developer in analysis, design, development and testing of web application.  • Expert in building User Interface (UI) using HTML5, DHTML, CSS3 and JavaScript that follows W3C Web Standards and are browser compatible.  • Having good experience on Web Technologies using HTML4/5, CSS2/CSS3, XHTML, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, XML and JSON.  • Extensive experience in developing web page quickly and effectively using JQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Responsive Web Design, Bootstrap and experience in making web pages cross browser compatible.  • Extensively used ECMAScript 6.0 (ES6) for large applications and library creation.  • Excellent knowledge in the development of User Experience web and mobile based applications.  • Expert in HTML5/CSS3 development and have experience in Backbone.js, Node.js, Angular.js, Responsive design.  • Having knowledge on media queries.  • Extensive experience as web developer with a strong background working on open source technologies, including JSP, HTML, CSS, MySQL, JavaScript, Flash, Photoshop.  • Experience with open source Java script technologies ExtJs.  • Experience with JavaScript task runner using Grunt.  • Having knowledge on flux architecture.  • Good experience in Software designing using MVC architecture.  • Expertise in designing Event Handling Models such as Listener and Dispatcher in OO JavaScript. With backend in Springs MVC (Restful services with annotation) architecture framework.  • Expert in designing web applications and web contents utilizing various Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques.  • Solid experience with Responsive Web Design (RWD)  • Familiar with popular browsers development and debugging tools/plugins for IE tester, Chrome Inspector, Firebug, Jasmine and Karma testing framework.  • Experienced in building cross browser compatibility applications using HTML5 and CSS3.  • Strong experience in CSS3 preprocessors styling such as SASS and LESS.  • Extensive experience in OOP, OOAD, System Analysis design, Development and Deployment of various Applications in Java Technologies.  • Skilled in developing web applications using JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JNDI, JSTL JavaBeans and J2EE web services.  • Having knowledge on working with structs.  • Having solid experience in using JavaScript and jQuery for manipulating the mark-up and data operations using jquery and AJAX.  • Provided UX services including interpreting requirements, creating concept designs, wire framing designs, and rapid prototyping and related UX standards.  • Experience in using polymer library for creating web components.  • Strong Experience in developing the application using frameworks like Struts, Java Server Faces (JSF) and Spring frameworks.  • Experience in popular JavaScript frameworks such as Angular.js, Node.js, jQuery, Require.js, Express.js, D3.js, Dojo toolkit, Jasmine, Karma with automation tools like Grunt, Gulp with NPM and Bower.  • Expert in working with LAMP and WAMP platform.  • Having good knowledge on Angular 2.0.  • Expert in Rich Internet Applications (RIA) with advanced JavaScript Frameworks using MVC, JQuery.  • Experience in using UML modeling tools like Microsoft Visio and Rational Rose to design and develop high level and comprehensive design module.  • Experience in configuring the application to be deployed on Heroku platform with support infrastructure on self-motivated Team player with excellent interpersonal skills.  • Flexible, enthusiastic and project oriented team player with solid communication and Analytic skills to develop creative solution for challenging client needs.  • Experience in all phase of SDLC like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and Maintenance, and extensive experience with Agile and SCRUM. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer MB Financial Bank - Ann Arbor, MI October 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed the enterprise application by integrating JSF/Spring/Hibernate Frameworks.  • Used the Dependency Injection feature provided by spring framework for bean wiring.  • Used spring framework's JMS support for writing to JMS Queue, Hibernate Dao Support for interfacing with the database and integrated spring with JSF.  • Implemented JMS listeners to connect to the JMS queues using ActiveMQ for producing and consuming JMS messages.  • Wrote SQL queries, Stored Procedures using PL SQL for accessing and managing databases such as Oracle.  • Involved in Design, development and testing of web application and integration projects using Object Oriented technologies such as Core Java, J2EE, Struts, JSP, JDBC, Spring Framework, Hibernate, Java Beans, Web Services (REST/SOAP), XML, XSLT, XSL, and Ant.  • Used GIT as a version-controlling tool for managing the module developments.  • Worked on mapping the database schema, writing Hibernate classes, gathering business requirements to build the page logic, and implementing to match the mock-up. Maintained and updated the Jasper reports.  • Developed a fully functional prototype application using JavaScript (Jquery, React JS and Backbone.js) and Bootstrap, connecting to a REST-ful server on a different domain.  • Extensive experience in building web applications using Java security and Risk Management modules.  • Followed Agile Scrum methodology that included iterative application development, weekly Sprints and stand up meetings.  • Used Multithreading and Collections Framework including List, Map etc.  • Used Spring-JDBC configuration to manage some transactions across multiple databases.  • Used Maven and Jenkins for building the applications EAR for various environments.  • Designed, developed JSP, Servlets and deployed them on JBOSS Application Server.  • Used Spring ORM Support for Hibernate to manage efficiently Hibernate Resources and consistent exception Hierarchy.    Environment: JDK 7, JSF 1.2, JBoss, Flex, Spring-JDBC 2.5, Spring-ws-core 1.5, Wsdl4j 1.6.1, SOAPJMS 1.1  Open Source Frameworks: Spring 2.5, fix, Hibernate 3, Maven 2, Jenkins, Angular JS, EXT JS 6.0, React JS,  Log4J and JUnit 4.4 IDE and Tools: Eclipse 3.4, SQL Navigator Data Bases: Oracle10g, Version Control / QA tool: Subversion, tortoise GIT, AWS, Mercury Quality center Application Server: BEA Web logic Application Server 9.2. Full Stack Developer Quest Diagnostics - Norristown, PA October 2015 to September 2016 Description: Quest Diagnostics Incorporated is a Fortune 500 company providing clinical laboratory services with headquarters in Madison, New Jersey. Quest Diagnostics are passionate about developing innovative, ground-breaking tests, products and tools to enhance patient care and also has collaborative agreements internationally with various hospitals and clinics.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, JavaScript, AngularJS, JQuery, Wire-framing, Ajax and HTML5.  • Worked extensively on rectangular and handled REST API Restful resources.  • Used Node.js express frameworks to setup middleware to respond to HTTP requests.  • Worked on JSP's in page and JSON structure for the content coming from the backend.  • Build prototype for various required services such as Scheduling, Logging and Notification Service using third party Node.js based JavaScript library.  • Worked on custom directives, services and filters in AngularJS as per the functional requirements.  • Used Angular JS to bind HTML to JavaScript Objects and develop Single Page Application (SPA)  • A ReactJS mobile web app that seeks to improve the process of acquiring cigarettes from strangers at a bar.  • Implement the application C#, MVC, ReactJs Amazon Service.  • Client Side code were written in ReactJs/JQuery/JavaScript and Server Side Code were developed using MVC4 and C#.  • Designed and developed ReactJS component required for the project.  • Used JQuery and Bootstrap plugins for site maintenance.  • Worked with team in making the website mobile responsive using media queries and flexible grid layouts.  • Bug fixes for existing care source website and also software enhancement.  • Maintenance of company homepage by optimizing functions that used JQuery, using alternative Bootstrap layout and solving bug reports.  • Developed handy version applications using Bootstrap Framework, HTML4 and CSS2.  • Converted the mock-ups into hand-written HTML5, CSS 3.  • Created dashboards which are highly rich in visualizations using D3.js.  • Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly.  • Experience applying the latest development approaches event-driven applications using AJAX, Object  • Oriented (OO) Java Script, JSON.  • Utilized the HTML5 DOM local storage features to store data locally client side processing.  • Designed and developed the application presentation layer using JSTL.  • Prepared Junit test cases and executed the test cases using Junit in eclipse.  • Used SVN as a code repository and for code management.  • Worked on AGILE methodology.    Environment: AngularJS, Rectangular, HTML4, CSS, AJAX, JOSN, XML, JQuery, JSTL, Jasmine, Google  Maps API, SVN, WebStorm, eclipse, bootstrap. Sr. Java Developer WebMD Health Services, NY January 2015 to September 2015 Description: WebMD is a leading provider of health information services to consumers, physicians and Other healthcare professionals, employers and health plans through their public and private online portals, mobile platforms and health-focused publications.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirements gathering, UI design and design of application workflows.  • Designing and Developing the Web Portal Applications, web services, JBPM workflows, Backend Queuing.  • Implementations (MQ) using the technologies Spring MVC, JQuery, JSON, Spring ORM, Hibernate, CXF JAX-WS JAXB and Active MQ using Scrum based Agilemethodologies.  • Converted and automated builds using Ant and scheduled automated nightly builds using Cruise Control and maintained Continuous integration effort with Cruise Control along with scheduled builds.  • Developed Web pages using Servlet and JSP, Angular.js, for the support app, which is a test tool for a quick standalone testing of the Web service calls.  • Implemented Golden Gate for Standby Configuration and developed procedures for Replication.  • Involved in various Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) phases of the project, which was modeled using Rational Unified Process (RUP)  • Developed web application based on J2EE Struts framework, Implemented Java and J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate.  • Enhanced UI using JSF, XHTML, and JavaScript, Develop and deploy the applications on Web Sphere Application Server 6.0/7.0.  • Used Web services - WSDL & SOAP for getting credit card information from third party.  • Created technical documents for the tasks assigned, made changes in LLS donation workflow to  • accommodate Book Keeper.  • JUnit test cases to test Web Services functionality before integration with client.  • Extensively worked on J2EE Technologies to develop the project, Followed Spring MVC Framework for the development of the project.  • Used Hibernate as ORM tool and defined the mapping, coordinated with QA team to ensure the quality of application.  • Involved in Unit integration, debugging the code, bug fixing, and acceptance testing with test cases, code reviews.  • Supported production environment including monitoring application, resolving any production related issues.  • Exposed as RESTFUL Web services, with Chart Specific parameters passed as query string.  • Extensive Performance testing is being done to determine the responsiveness and stability of the system.  • Writing ANT script to build and deploy applications.  • Testing web services using SOAP UI and TCP MON.  • Technologies: Spring, Hibernate, SQL Server, JTA, JUnit, JSP, JSON, JavaScript, DHTML, HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, Ajax, Restful services, Jenkins, Eclipse, ANT, ActiveMQ Messages, JMS, Web Sphere Application  • Server (WAS), IBM DB2, Agile Methodology. Full stack developer H&R Block - Kansas City, MO October 2013 to December 2014 Description: H&R Block is an American tax preparation company in North America, Australia, Brazil and India. The Kansas City-based company also offers banking, payroll, personal finance, and business consulting services.    Responsibilities:  • Front-end web development using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Developed UI based out of wireframes and red-line documents  • Responsible for making responsive web pages using twitter bootstrap and media queries.  • Used AngularJS framework to bind HTML (views) to JavaScript objects (models)  • Branding payment portal as per client specification and configuring it pixel-to-pixel to Client website.  • Consumed Web Service using JSON, BSON and REST to get the registered users, update their status  • Developed JSF Tags and Components.  • Developed the front end of the application using HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JSP, and JavaScript.  • Code development to synchronize all feature of Client website with Payweb2 site  • Code development to ensure the compatibility across all browsers  • Creating graphics to satisfy client site requirement.  • Perform System Testing to ensure branding is done as per client requirement.  • Coordinate with QA team to resolve any issues regarding site branding.  • Design and develop prototype video to showcase company features.  • Implemented client side scripting using JQuery and Angular.js.  • Designed and developed various Screens using DOJO, JavaScript, HTML, and CSS.  • Experience in using various tools and IDEs for development tool Eclipse.  • Coordinate with Business Relationship Manager to gather client requirements and QA team  • Hands on experience using the version controls like SVN and TFS and project management tools like JIRA, QC.    Environment: Dreamweaver CS6, JSON, BSON, REST, Photoshop CS6, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, DOJO,  SASS, Angular.js, Node.JS, Mobile JS, Eclipse and JIRA. Java Developer BSNL Communications March 2010 to June 2013 Description: The project deals with the automated provision of the telephone systems. The system is developed to provision various telephone systems and allocate different services to the line as per the plans selected by the user. It is developed in Java/J2ee with Spring 3.0 framework and the flow decision had been implemented with flux flowcharts which in turn call the various java actions and web services with the backend database as oracle and hosted on to tomcat web server.    Responsibilities  • Developed application using Java Spring Framework and used Eclipse Integrated Development Environment (IDE), SVN, and Ant.  • Developed the UI Layer using Struts, CSS, JSP, JavaScript, JSTL, XML and XPath.  • Developed the presentation layer using Struts MVC.  • Developed various SOAP based Web services using apache Axis2 implementation.  • Developed various service codes to provision the lines and configured them with iBatis and Rest Web services.  • Used Spring framework for wiring and managing business objects.  • Developed PL/SQL programming on Oracle database using Oracle SQL Developer and Java JDBC  • technologies.  • Involved in creating various Data Access Objects for Addition, modification and deletion of records using  • various specification files.  • Managed Service dependencies using Spring Dependency Injection.  • Written Junit test cases for unit testing and load testing for various service codes.  • Wrote Maven scripts for building project modules.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4j.  • Used SVN for version and source control.    ENVIRONMENT: Java/J2EE, Spring 3.0, SOAP web services, Restful web services, JMS, IBATIS 2.0, Oracle11g, Web Logic, AngularJS, JUNIT 3.0, Ant, SVN, Apache axis2 and CXF, Log4j, SQLite Education Bachelor's Skills Angular JS (6 years), Eclipse (6 years), JavaScript (7 years), JSP (6 years), Subversion (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Programming Languages: Java, PL/SQL  Web Technologies: HTML/HTML5, CSS2/CSS3, DHTML, XML, XHTML, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, JSON,  JSP, Less, Sass  JavaScript Libraries: JQuery, AngularJS, Backbone.js, Node.js, D3.js, React.js, ES6, ext.js, Require.js,  Bootstrap, Hybris.  IDE & Tools: Eclipse, Web Storm, Notepad++, Adobe Dreamweaver, Brackets, Adobe Dreamweaver, Sub  Lime Text, Microsoft Publisher  Development Tools: Adobe Photoshop CS5, Yahoo Search Marketing (spring tool suite)  Version Control Perforce, GitHub, SVN (tortoise SVN)  Publishing Tools: Adobe PageMaker, MS Office  Debugging Tools: Firebug, web Developer  Database: Oracle, SQL Server, MY SQL, MongoDb, MySql Server  Web Servers: HTTP Web Server, Apache Tomcat, Web logic, Web Sphere, IIS.  Operating System: Windows, Linux, UNIX