Sr. Demandware Developer Sr. Demandware <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Demandware Developer - Columbia Sports Company Sunnyvale, CA • 8 years of total experience in IT industry worked with all phases of Architecture, Analysis, Design, development, testing and documentation of Web Development with different technologies and platforms such as Dojo, JSF, Xpages, JQuery, JavaScript, XSLT, Demandware.  • Possess expertise in Object-oriented Analysis/Design and Java Development skilled at progressing from problem statement to well-documented designs.  • Experience on Demandware Cartridges with developing Pipelines, Controllers, ISMLs and Scripts.  • Experience on integration of third party link cartridges in Demand ware.  • Strong knowledge on creating custom jobs, job schedules and job configuration in business manager  • Strong knowledge and experience across various components like commerce, merchandising, campaigns, web services and integrations.  • Worked on the DW Web services, Checkout flow, import and export feeds.  • Strong knowledge of Java with experience ranging from introduction of version 1.0, adoption of version 1.6 and commitment to using SWT for component architecture of product interface.  • Demonstrated understanding of Java Technologies potential, recognized as person to mentor other colleagues on Java Technologies.  • Coding experience & knowledge in e-commerce web and app development  • Well versed with SDLC phases with extensive experience in requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Build, Testing, Documentation and Maintenance.  • Knowledge of SiteGensis Search/category landing, PDP pages' code flow and pipeline structure.  • Experience with connecting and working with third party repositories and experience in using GIT and SVN for source code control  • Strong Knowledge on framework like Angular.js.  • Extensive technical skill strengths with JavaScript Frameworks, HTML, CSS, MVC  • Developed and customized Carters.com with a heavy usage of JSON, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, PHP and XML in a proprietary backend environment utilizing Java, Oracle Work Experience Sr. Demandware Developer Columbia Sports Company November 2016 to Present Columbia Sportswear Company is a leading innovator in the global apparel footwear, accessories and equipment markets. The purpose of the projects is to develop and design Columbia Sports UK Marketing site on top of US existing site for different locale and also implemented Demandware with the integration of CMS.  Responsibilities:  • Participate and lead software design, development, and implementation  • Involved in the conceptual and technical design discussion of the Demandware integration with CMS(AEM).  • Developed Demandware Cartridges with controllers.  • Setup UX Studio with Demandware development environments and sandboxes  • Worked with cross functional IS and business teams to design and develop web solutions on the Demandware platform in support of business needs.  • Experience with Demandware 's Business Manager configuration  • Changing the default Demandware logic related to PDP, Cart and Checkout process.  • Site preferences, custom objects/attributes creation and scheduling jobs in demand ware.  • Content and assets/slots management  • Implemented new design and created new pages with new design.  • Integrated existing business logic with new design.  Environment: Demandware Script, Pipelines API, JavaScript, J Query, CSS, ISML, HTML, XML, SVN, Eclipse etc. Demandware Developer BEATS - San Jose, CA January 2014 to October 2016 Beats Electronics LLC (also known as Beats) is a subsidiary of Apple Inc, that produces audio products, the purpose of the projects is Demandware development for Beats mini projects with third party integrations and integrate third party tools and APIs in Beats existing functionality to support various new features.  Responsibilities:  • Develops and documents technical solutions in response to requests to enhance and optimize company's eCommerce websites  • Write and review application code for Demandware applications  • Developed unit testing framework strategy for Demandware development and automated testing.  • Responsible to do UI enhancements in Accelerator project.  • Bootstrap inclusion for Demandware websites.  • White papers on various topics to expedite development process.  • Support and maintain online, ecommerce applications  • Have written different schedule jobs using service framework.  • Have been playing around with custom objects to support different functionalities.  • Implemented toggle based functionalities. Java/ java Script Developer Quickens Loan - Detroit, MI January 2010 to December 2013 Quicken Loans Inc., is a mortgage lending company, the second largest overall retail lender in the U.S. (it is also the largest online retail mortgage lender).which formulate and design client server systems using object oriented concepts and also develop CEPS application using Java, Perl, Sybase on Linux OS  Responsibilities:  • Worked on multiple applications including Web, Enterprise and Hybrid applications using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, Node JS, Ionic framework.  • Developing Hybrid applications using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular JS that are cross platform compatible.  • Creating structure for Responsive Web Designing and developing responsive web applications  • Developed local server using Node JS to run the application in lower environment.  • Created and promoted JavaScript unit testing in mocha using Grunt, Jasmin and Karma.  • Worked on multiple JavaScript frameworks (Angular JS, Backbone, Bootstrap, Nodejs) to augment browser based applications with MVC capability  • Developed data insertion forms and validated them using JavaScript, Angular js.  • Used Grunt for Minifying Java Script Code  • Leading mobile Application development for cross platform JavaScript based solution using Angular JS  Environment: HTML, XHTML, HTML 5, CSS3, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, Grunt, Jasmin, Karma, Angular JS, JQUERY, BootstrapV3.3.1, Sublime, Adobe Dream viewer. Education Bachelor's Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information TECHNICAL EXPERTISE  Languages: Ecma scripting, Java, SWT, JSP, HTML, Dojo, Javascript, Jquery, JSF, Xpages, CSS, XSLT, XML, Apache ANT Script.  Frameworks: Demandware, Java, RPC, J2EE, Eclipse, Eclipse Plugin, IBM Domino, Xpages  APIs: SWT, Javadoc, Java Beans, Collections, Java Plugin, JSP, Servlet, EJB, IBM EXT Lib, Localization, Layout Management  Concepts: OOA/OOD (UML, Design Patterns, R efactoring), Networking, Unit Module  and System Level Testing, Multiprocess  synchronization, Internatilization,  Software: Eclipse, Version Control (SVN, GIT,  Clearcase), Lotus Notes, Lotus Designer,  Lotus Domino etc  Systems: Windows(95, 98, 2000, XP, Vista, 7),  Unix, Linux, Mac, MSDos