Senior Java Full Stack Developer Senior <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Java Full Stack Developer - Foot Locker Chicago, IL • 7+ years of IT experience in application design, software development life cycle (SDLC), Agile methodologies maintenance and enhancement of web-based applications.  • Complete understanding of Object Oriented Design and Development of web-based and client/server systems on multiple platforms in a distributed environment.  • Experience in Distributed Application Development and Object-Oriented Programming (OOP).  • Expertise in development of multi-tiered enterprise applications using Java/J2EE technologies like Spring, Struts, Servlets, JSP, Hibernate, JDBC, JMS, IBM MQ Series, JNDI, Java Beans.  • Experience with Java 8 features such as Lambda Expressions for making inline function calls by using Functional Interfaces which makes code readable and concise.  • Experience working with Amazon Web Services like EC2, S3 bucket, RDS, SQS, Elastic Load Balancer, Dynamo DB, through AWS Console and API Integration.  • Write JAXB Web service's for server side and involved in complete front end to backend persistence layer for Use cases assigned.  • Utilize AJAX technology for invoking server calls.  • Worked with IBM WebSphere Message Broker, IBM WebSphere MQ, IBM WebSphere Portlet Factory, Infosphere MDM.  • Active participation in Websphere server problems (killing instances, debugging server logs, applications logs).  • Developed Spring JDBC Components  • Good working knowledge in Health, Banking and Finance, Manufacturing Domains.  • Expertise in installing, configuring and deploying applications in WebLogic, JBOSS, WebSphere and Tomcat application server.  • Good knowledge in developing and deploying applications on J2EE servers like Apache Tomcat/Web Logic/Web Sphere for deployment and customizing WAR/JAR file management for web applications.  • Experience Designing and Developing Application Modules using Java Web Services(Produced/Consumed) using WSDL & REST.  • Strong hands on experience in implementing Design patterns like MVC, Singleton, Data Access Object, DTO, Service Façade, Delegate and Factory. Having experience with Configuration Management tools like SVN and Visual Source Safe.  • Developed and deployed multi-tier Enterprise Applications using Apache Tomcat, JBoss, WebSphere 8.5/8.0/7.0, and Web and application servers.  • Experience working on AgileDevelopment Methodology with SCRUM, Client/Server, Multi-Tier Architecture, Multi-Threaded Applications, Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  • Extensively worked with Relational Databases Oracle 12c/11g/10g/9i/8x, SQL Server2012/2014/7.0, MS Access.  • Extensive experience with Application servers and Web servers (Oracle Web logic 12.1, Oracle OC4J, IBM Web Sphere 8.x and Tomcat 7.x). Good experience in writing complex Oracle SQL queries, creating PL/SQL stored procedures, functions, packages, performance tuning and triggers.  • Specialized in using IDEs like RAD8, WSAD (Web sphere Studio Application Developer), JBuilder, IntelliJ IDEA, TOAD, XDoclet and Eclipse.  • Versatile team player with good communication, analytical, presentation and inter-personal skills.  • Worked on Integration of Spring and Hibernate frameworks using Spring ORM Module  • Good knowledge on AWS databases like RDS, DynamoDB, Redshift, ElastiCache.  • Proficient in building Web User Interface (UI) using HTML5, DHTML, CSS3 and JavaScript that follows W3C Web Standards and are browser compatible. Work Experience Senior Java Full Stack Developer Foot Locker - Chicago, IL January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Agile development (2week sprints/Iterations), Test Driven Development (TDD), Junit, Mockito, Gradle, JIRA issue navigator, Crucible Code Reviews is part of every day's work.  • Responsible for creation of design artifacts such as use cases and sequence diagrams.  • Developed application on Spring 3.x framework by utilizing its features like Multi-threading, Spring Dependency injection, Spring Beans, Spring Security, Spring JDBC, Spring Web flow using Spring MVC.  • Worked on Spring Web Flow on Spring MVC to build an application from scratch using Spring XML configurations, annotations. Wrote controllers to handle incoming requests and send output to the UI.  • Used Spring Boot and Spring Security framework to set up authentication and authorization for the application using firm wide single sign on  • To verify the behavior of the system under test used Mockito Framework.  • Created various spring boot and spring batch applications to connect them to various databases and created queries to retrieve data and modify the tables for the databases.  • I have experience on other JVM based languages such as groovy and Scala for Gatling test.  • Developed persistence layer integrating Hibernate with Spring ORM support, also used Spring JDBC for lightweight database operations.  • Worked on AWS cloud services like EC2, S3, RDS, ELB, and EBS for installing, configuring and auto scaling.  • Used JPA Annotations for Mapping Objects to Tables, hibernate features such as Lazy Loading, Hibernate Query Language (HQL), Criteria and Pagination.  • Developed application on Spring 3.x framework by utilizing its features like Multi-threading, Spring Dependency injection, Spring Beans, Spring Security, Spring JDBC, Spring Web flow using Spring MVC.  • Used Spring Boot and Spring Security framework to set up authentication and authorization for the application using firm wide single sign on  • Installed, secured, and configured AWS cloud servers and Amazon AWS virtual servers (Linux).  • Using WebSphere Application server to deploy and restart web applications.  • Used the Java Collections API extensively in the application as security protection for XML, SOAP, REST and JSON to make a secure Web Deployment.  • Widely resolved Angular scope issues. Developed Angular factories and used angular promise API for making asynchronous calls. Have expert knowledge on JavaScript and worked on NodeJS.  • Developed Model and DAO classes using Hibernate Reverse Engineering.  • Responsible for Design and development of UI Framework using Ember.js, Node.js and React.js.  • Created controllers, directives, models for different modules in the frontend using Angular 4.  • Created REST API's Microservices and EJB using Express Router/Model/Controller architecture. Models connect to MySQL and MongoDB using Node.js MySQL and Mongoose modules.  • Achieved synchronization of multiple threads through Multithreading and Exception Handling.  • Involved in writing JAVA API for Amazon Lambda to manage some of the AWS services.  • Used Bitbucket as source control tool for branching, merging and maintain code versions in the repository enabled using Maven Versioning Capability.  • Developed, Tested and Deployed application in Apache Tomcat 7.0.  • Created REST API's Microservices and EJB using Express Router/Model/Controller architecture. Models connect to MySQL and MongoDB using Node.js MySQL and Mongoose modules.  • Implemented the interaction between applications and Mule ESB by using Message Service clients.  • Used Java and Web services to validate the Migration Functions.  Environment: HTML 5, DHTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSP, JSTL, CSS, JQuery, DOJO, POJO , AJAX, IBM Portlet Factory with Spring 3, XML, XStream , JAXB, Maven,J2EE 1.6, Junit 4, LOG4J, IBM WebSphere Application Server V8.5(Business Layer), IBM WebSphere Liberty Server(for UI),IBM WebSphere MQ, OpenJPA 2.4.0, SQL, Oracle 11g, Eclipse Mars 3 Senior Java Full Stack Developer Mecklenburg county - Charlotte, NC August 2016 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) by following AGILE Methodology to promote iterations, collaboration, and process adaptability and participated in SCRUM Meetings.  • Used Spring (MVC) architecture to implement the application using the concrete principles laid down by several design patterns such as Session Facade, Business Delegate, Bean Factory, Singleton, Data Access Object and Service Locator.  • Implemented routing mechanism using AngularJS ng-route module, router providing services.  • Used JSTL Tag library to create standard dynamic web pages.  • Implemented Multithreading, Concurrency, Exception Handling and Collections whenever necessary.  • Worked on Spring Framework for Dependency and Transaction Management.  • Utilized the Spring AOP feature for implanting cross-cutting concerns like logging and Transaction Management and separated the business logic from System Services.  • Used Spring's MVC framework to better control the presentation, business and navigational aspects of the application.  • Developed application on Spring 3.x framework by utilizing its features like Multi-threading, Spring Dependency injection, Spring Beans, Spring Security, Spring JDBC, Spring Web flow using Spring MVC.  • Used Spring Boot and Spring Security framework to set up authentication and authorization for the application using firm wide single sign on  • Used the Java Collections API extensively in the application as security protection for XML, SOAP, REST  • Installed, secured, and configured AWS cloud servers and Amazon AWS virtual servers (Linux).  • Using WebSphere Application server to deploy and restart web applications.  • Developed Model and DAO classes using Hibernate Reverse Engineering.  • Responsible for Design and development of UI Framework using Ember.js, Node.js and React.js.  • Created controllers, directives, models for different modules in the frontend using Angular 4.  • Created REST API's Microservices and EJB using Express Router/Model/Controller architecture. Models connect to MySQL and MongoDB using Node.js MySQL and Mongoose modules.  • Achieved synchronization of multiple threads through Multithreading and Exception Handling.  • Used different Spring annotations like @autowire, @controller, @component, @Service at different layers.  • Widely resolved angular scope issues. Developed Angular factories, and used angular promise API for making asynchronous calls. Have expert knowledge on JavaScript and worked on NodeJS.  • Created MongoDB collections and integrated with Spring and MongoDB.  • Implemented MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes and replication.  • Designed services to store and retrieve user data using MongoDB database and communicated with remote servers using REST enabled Web Services on Jersey framework.  • Created, configured Hibernate entities using annotations, mapping associations to map with the database model.  • Implemented REST based web service using JAX-RS annotations, Jersey provider implementation.  • Experienced with AWS services to smoothly manage application in the cloud and creating or modifying the instances.  • Experienced working with database setup and maintenance on AWSEC2.  • Excellent in deploying the applications in AWS as EC2 instances and create snapshots for the data that must be stored in AWSS3.  • Designed and developed Micro services business components using SpringBoot.  • Used Hibernate ORM tools which automate the mapping between Postgre SQL databases and objects in Java.  • Actively used the defect tracking tool JIRA to create and track the defects during QA phase of the project.  • Used SVN to maintain the version of the files and IntelliJ as the IDE for developing the application.  Environment: Java 1.7, Servlet, JSP, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSON, AngularJS, Node.js, jQuery, JSF, Spring 4.0, Hibernate 3.5, REST Web services, Agile methodology, WebLogic 9.2, Oracle 10g, JIRA, MongoDB, AWS, JUnit, Maven, Jenkins, SVN, Bootstrap, IntelliJ, Windows. Java Developer Texas Mutual Insurance - Austin, TX September 2015 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in System Analysis and Design methodology as well as Object Oriented Design and development using OOAD methodology to capture and model business requirements.  • Implemented the Graphic User Interface by coding in HTML, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, and jQuery UI.  • Designed Single page web applications object-oriented JavaScript Framework - Angular.JS.  • Created prototypes in HTML, JavaScript and CSS for different UI pages.  • Implemented and developed UI components using AngularJS features like DI, Models, data binding and controllers. Develop various screens using AngularJS and used various predefined components from NPM.  • The application is designed using J2EE design patterns Session façade, Singleton, Factory, DAO and technologies based on MVC architecture.  • Used Spring DAO module for performing CRUD operations on database and implemented logging in the application using Spring Framework AOP module to know the application status.  • Used Spring MVC Model View Controller to handle/intercept the user requests and used various controllers.  • Implemented (SOA) to retrieve data from client side and made REST API calls and parsed the data to client and handled the security and Authorization using Spring Security.  • Build, Test and developed application from Docker containers and deployed into PCF environment.  • Experience in Micro services development using spring boot and deployment in Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF).  • Developed REST web services using Spring MVC to extract client related data from database and used SOAPUI.  • Developed Microservices with Spring Eureka to retrieve API routes and Implemented Spring Circuit breaker pattern, integrated Hystrix dashboard to monitor spring microservice.  • Experienced with setting up the basic project setup from scratch using Spring-Hibernate based design.  • Involved in writing Thread Safe blocks for multithreading access to make valid transactions.  • Developed application and deployed the application onto WebLogic application server.  • Used Cassandra for achieving denormalization through features like collections.  • Experienced with JAXB binding to convert Java object to XML and vice-versa.  • Involved in Code Review, Unit Testing and Integration Testing, Selenium Web Driver.  Environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, JSF, Spring MVC, Hibernate, XML, HTML, jQuery, JavaScript, Bootstrap, AngularJS, Web Services (SOAP/WSDL), SoapUI, Multithreading, Web Logic Application Server, JAX-RS, Selenium Web Driver, Maven, Log4J, SVN, Cassandra. Java Developer Lowes - Mooresville, NC December 2014 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  • Followed AGILE Methodology to promote iterations, collaboration, and process adaptability and participated in SCRUM Meetings throughout the life cycle of project.  • Developed static pages in web Application using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Developed, deployed and maintained Single Sign On application in development, test and production environments.  • Updated/modified JSP pages using Struts tags, used JQuery and its validator plugin for validating Forms in the presentation layer.  • Used AJAX and JSON to send request to server and updating GUI pages using callback functions.  • Worked on presentation layer to develop JSP pages and embedding CSS, JavaScript, DOM and HTML.  • Designed and developed Application based on Spring framework using MVC design patterns.  • Developed the Web Services Client using SOAP, WSDL description to verify the credit history of the new customer to provide a connection.  • See web services for interaction between various components and created SOAP envelopes.  • Developed SOAP web services utilizing business logic for CRUD functionality and Rest Easy web services for creating reports.  • Developed reusable and interoperable Web service modules based on SOA architecture using SOAP and Restful  • Implemented Spring MVC Controller module for better handling of client request, consume, RESTful data service and sending response back to client.  • Used Java API for XML Web Services (JAX-WS) to convert Java Objects to XML conversions. Created RESTful web services interface to Java-based runtime engine and accounts.  • Used HQL (Hibernate Query Language) and Query criteria to interact with data base (MYSQL)  • Used ANT for builds creation and to push into different environments  • Used log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions, debugging and request/response/error logging.  Environment: Java 1.7, JSP, Servlet, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, Angular JS, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, LDAP, JAXP, JAXB, JMS, SVN, WebLogic, MYSQL, RESTful Web Services, ANT, AXIS. Java Developer Global Software Solutions - IN April 2013 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis, Design, Coding and Development of custom Interfaces. Involved in developing static pages using HTML. Created custom tags for better navigation of the JSP pages.  • Developed JSP's for dynamic content generation and a script file which contains generalized script functions.  • Wrote server-side programs by using Servlets and JSP's to handle various requests from the client browser and send responses.  • Provided utility classes for the application using Core Java and extensively used Collection package.  • JDBC were used in retrieving data. Involved coding SQL Queries, Stored Procedures and Triggers. Wrote a controller Servlet that dispatched requests to appropriate classes.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents & manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  • Developed Model and DAO classes using Hibernate Reverse Engineering.  • Developed Struts action classes and Struts action form beans for the information flow between database and Model.  • Interpreted and manipulated Struts and hibernate configure files.  • Prepared backend procedures, triggers and functions using native SQL.  • Used jQuery plugins for Drag-and-Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms.  • Developed features using Servlets, JSP, Java beans, Hibernate.  • Designed and Developed Java classes, XML Mapping files and Service classes to use the Hibernate API.  Environment: Java, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, Hibernate, Maven, Adobe Flash, SQL, Oracle, Windows. Software Engineer Symmetric solutions - IN March 2012 to March 2013 Responsibilities:  • Participated in the analysis, design and the development of different modules for the integration with the application.  • Followed Scrum Agile methodology for iterative development of the application.  • Involved in system design, enterprise application development using object-oriented analysis Extensive uses of Spring MVC annotations to built lightweight application and integrate it with hibernate. Generating company and financial report specific reporting periods and validating it using Spring MVC framework and JSP.  • Used Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlet, JSP, JMS, JDBC, Spring, Hibernate, Web services Implemented DAO using Hibernate Reverse Engineering, MVC design  • Extensive use of hibernates to generate object relational mapping.  • Consumed Restful web services for external application.  • Used Serialization process to serialize the data to store in the database and used the same data after deserialization.  • Generating output in XML format by extracting data of trail balance and global Ledger elements mapping from MySQL database.  • Performing code reviews and generating code review report. Fixing bugs reported by the testing team and updating the same after refactoring.  • Session Management using Http session.  • Tested the application in different environments for compatibility.  Environment: Java, JDK1.6, J2EE, Spring, hibernate, JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, Servlets, MySQL, Oracle, Web Services, Restful WebServices, JUNIT, Unix. Education Master of Science California State University Skills ECLIPSE, EJB, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, INTELLIJ IDEA, SPRING, JBOSS, JMS, jQuery, JSP, SERVLETS, ANDROID STUDIO, C++, DESIGN PATTERNS, Git, BOOTSTRAP, JSON, ORM, PHP