Android Developer Android <span class="hl">Developer</span> Android developer - Ford Motor Company • 7 years of extensive experience in designing and developing high-end Enterprise Level Web including Mobile applications using Google Android platforms.  • Experiences in applying Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for applications including Requirements Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Maintenance and Enhancements.  • In-depth experience in using Android Studio and Eclipse with ADT plugin and working with several versions of Android SDK like Gingerbread, Honeycomb, Ice Cream, Sandwich, Jellybean, KitKat, Lollipop, Marshmallow, Nougat and Oreo.  • Experience in native Android development which includes: Activities, Services, Broadcast Receivers, Intent, Fragments, AsyncTask, Android Binding, Content Provider, Restful Services, Adapters, Material Design, Shared Preferences, Location services and Android Framework API's.  • Worked with Retrofit, volley, Otto, EventBus, Dagger 2, GSON, Jacoco, Google Analytics, Adobe and Picasso libraries.  • Worked on Firebase, SQLite, Realm Databases. Which are lightweight, server less and convenient data storage.  • Excellent in Android OS, interactive application development and memory management.  • Proficient with common Android Framework API's (Location, Camera, Notifications, Maps).  • Good exposure in troubleshooting, debugging and testing android applications.  • Excellent knowledge of e-commerce and the banking domain and was able to incorporate this knowledge in order to implement monetization of apps with capabilities to do in-app purchases.  • Experience in working with Google Maps API, GPS Location Data, Google Cloud Messaging, Volley and Push Notifications.  • Hands on experience in version control software's like GIT, Bitbucket, Source Tree, Perforce, Gerrit, Vault, SVN, Rational Clear Case and CVS.  • Familiar with application deploying in Google Play Store, Samsung App Store, Amazon App Store and worked on Relational databases like SQLite, Oracle, and MySQL.  • Experience in using services like Messaging, Bluetooth and Wi-Fi.  • Experience in Implementing Graphical User Interface (GUI) pages by utilizing JSP, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX.  • Exposure in socializing and integrating the android apps developed for Facebook and Twitter.  • Working Knowledge of graphic design and handling various kinds of media using Photoshop, Illustrator, Premiere and flash.  • Skilled in implementing multimedia features such as images, video, sound and graphics using Android SDK APIs like Location, Camera, Animations, Maps and Third-Party APIs such as YouTube, Facebook and Twitter.  • Familiarity with Mobile Security using OpenSSL library, OAuth, encrypted file system, User granted and App defined permissions and when using WebView with JavaScript Bridge.  • Excellent team player, very dynamic, flexible with positive attitude and excellent learning skills.  • Has the ability to provide solutions from a functional and technical perspective, meet deadlines. Work Experience Android Developer FedEx Inc - Plano, TX, US March 2016 to April 2017 This application allows users to track FedEx same day city shipments and receiving the notification of status changes when shipment is 20 min from delivery location and can see the route to destination after 20 minute notification  Google play store link: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.fedex.lastmile&hl=en    Responsibilities: • Involved in different phases of the project life cycle like designing, development and testing.  • Worked in an Agile/Scrum software development based environment • Used Google Maps API to render map.  • Responsible for Embedding Google Maps, GPS Location Data into app with zooming controls.  • Worked on linear, frame and relative layouts and implemented Broadcast Receivers for Android • Key resource for layout and UI work utilizing xml, Views, Webview, Recyclerview, Activities, Fragments, Android switch preferences, Animations and Notifications.  • Consumed REST services, getting JSON response and parsing them to get the required information • Used GIT and Perforce for project management and version control • Responsible for deploying the app to the Android Marketplace and supported the app for different releases of Android OS.  • Worked on services, Async tasks and Alert Notification API to implement event reminder feature into the mobile app.  • Worked with AsyncTask to implement proprietary networking APIs.  • Integrated Adobe Site Catalyst tool to understand the performance of the app and the user using the app • Involved in developer testing by porting the app on multiple devices with various screen sizes  Environment: Android Studio, Android SDK, Java, SQLite, Git, Android 4.4.2 (Kitkat) - 6 (Marshmallow), JSON, GPS, Log cat, Windows 7 Android Developer State Farm Insurance Company - Bloomington, IL, US February 2015 to February 2016 Description: "State farm Pocket Agent" app is designed in view of providing the user the ability to view, change their policy information on the go. Application features include contacting/searching an agent near you, submit auto or property claim, pay bills, and request for road side assistance  Google play store link: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.statefarm.pocketagent&hl=en    Responsibilities: • Worked in gathering requirement and made documentation • Developed and designed different customized UI layouts using List View, Grid View, View Pager, and Tab layouts using Action Bar • Communicated with local database using SQLite, Shared preferences, and file system • Worked in implementing GSON library • Worked on "On the Road" section of the app to provide the user information regarding their proximity to the closest Tow, Taxi, Rental Car, Hotel, and also State Farm Agent • Used Aysnc task handlers to develop generic libraries and other resources • Worked with simplification of code between fragments, activities, Intents, and Services using Event Bus • Worked in implementation of Singleton design pattern to pass objects to other fragments • Involved in working with testing team to fix bugs  Environment: Android 3.0 - 5.0 versions, Android SDK, ADT, Java, Shared Preferences, Eclipse IDE, Fragments, JSON, REST API, JavaScript, CSS, Multi-threading, JIRA, Google Maps API, XML, SVN, TDD Android Developer UMB Financial Corp - Kansas City, MO, US October 2013 to January 2015 This application allows users to manage their Loan Account profile, Transactions, Account Management and Funds Transfer functions. The customer by selecting each account can pay bills for respective account and can transfer funds from one account to another account.  Google play store link:https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.umb.umbmobiledeposit    Responsibilities: • Worked in different phases of the project cycle like design, development and testing.  • Had been part of project planning and communicate with product managers and support specialists on product issues.  • Responsible for embedding GPS functionality (geo-fence) to quickly find location and for navigating the directions to the nearest ATM.  • Extensively used web views, list views & populated lists to display the lists.  • Responsible for implementing the REST services, getting JSON response and parsing them to get the required information.  • Maintained Google design guidelines and Android best practices to update an application regularly.  • Responsible for design of UI using various custom layouts, buttons, dialog boxes, alert boxes and different form of widgets.  • Responsible for enabling the application to use the Camera feature to scan a document and upload the check using SQLite.  • Also integrated the Camera2 features to take photos of checks and deposit them through the app.  • Data persistence layer in the app developed with SQLite.  • Tested the app across different versions of Android and different android phones to assure quality and performance.  • Incorporated event reminder feature into the mobile app using services Asynchronous tasks, Alert Notification API and for other execution threads using Multi-Threading.  • Worked closely with the web application development team to ensure proper integration between Mobile application and Web application.  • Worked on debugging the application using Logcat, DDMS.  Environment: Android SDK 2.2, SQLite3.7.9, Eclipse IDE 3.7, JDK 6.0, 7.0, XML 1.0, JSON, HTML, CSS, GPS, Log cat, Windows 7. Java Application Developer Lenovo - Bangalore, KARNATAKA, IN March 2011 to September 2013 ePricer: An ePricer application is the worldwide CRM pricing tool and targeted toward Sales, Marketing and Pricing personnel who deal in quoting/approving prices and sending quotations to the end customers for pricing hardware and software products.    Responsibilities: • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Developed E-Pricer Business Partner (BP) application for ZIPS products used by IBM external partners and distributors.  • Designed and developed and implemented reusable design patterns for pagination editable and Sortable pages using JSP, custom tags and Java.  • Developed Struts validation framework and JavaScript for validation.  • Implemented and maintained AJAX based rich client for improved customer experience.  • Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural Pattern using Struts Framework including JSP, Servlets, EJB, Form Bean and Action classes.  • Integrated Spring Web and Spring DI with Struts framework. Spring ORM layer used Hibernate.  • Implemented Java and J2EE Design patterns like Factory, Abstract Factory, Business Delegate and Data Transfer Object (DTO), Data Access Object and Service Locator.  • Developed JMS synchronous client to send and receive SOAP message over MQ series transport layer.  Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, XML, XSL, Servlet, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, MQ Series, DB2    Project #2  Client: HDFC  Role: J2EE Developer  HR Application: Project mainly dealt with the Payroll Processing solutions, Human Resource Solutions, Retirement Services, Time & Labor Management, Global Services, Tax & compliance Management, Employee Benefits Administration, Screening and Selection Services and Professional Employer Organization (Comprehensive HR outsourced solution including employee benefits, workers' compensation, payroll and tax administration and regulatory compliance).    Responsibilities: • Wrote and customize several java programs for the generation of the payroll processing for playgroups, benefits, retirement services, employer services, audit reports and the out of balance records with rollups.  • Involved in Application development with IDE Tool Eclipse and web server Tomcat.  • Designed and development of User Interfaces, using Struts, JSP, HTML, Java Script, client side and server side validations.  • Used Spring MVC Framework to develop Action classes and Controllers along with validation framework and annotations.  • Worked in implementation of MVC design paradigm of Spring framework, Object-Relational Mapping (ORM) using Hibernate and Oracle database at the back end.  • Wrote different Java Operation Class for handling different transaction events like benefits, adding/deleting dependent, Family status change events and payroll processing for other family members for specific employer service and employee.  • Automated the build and deployment process using ANT build script.  • Added features with latest Business requirements and system requirements as needed.  Environment: Java/J2EE, Struts, UML, Rational Rose, Tomcat, Oracle 9i, PL/SQL, Java Script, Eclipse, Windows 2000. Education Technology JNT University Skills Android (5 years), Eclipse (5 years), Java (6 years), JSON (5 years), XML (7 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Web Development JSON, XML 1.0, JSP 2.3, Hibernate 4.3.5, JavaScript 1.8.5, XSLT 2.0, PHP, HTML 5.0, CSS.  Programming Languages C, C++, Java. Objective-C, JSP, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Web Services  Tools/IDE  Android SDK2.X/3.X/4.X, Android studio, Eclipse IDE 4.4, MS Office 2013, Adobe Dreamweaver CC, Photoshop, SVN 1.8.7, EGIT 3.4.1, and Maven 3.2.    Databases MS SQL, SQL Server 2005 and 2008, SQLite, Oracle 9i,  Application Servers Apache Tomcat 8.0  Operating Systems  Windows XP/200/NT/Professional, Linux/Ubuntu, MAC OS X Mountain Lion Android 1.5 to Android 4.4 Gingerbread, Honey comb, Ice cream sandwich, Jellybean, KitKat.