Salesforce Developer Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span> Salesforce Developer Dallas, TX • Over 9 Years of IT experience that includes over 5 years of experience in Salesforce.com CRM Platform and Apex technologies as Team lead and around 4 years of experience with Java/J2EE.  • Experience in working with Salesforce developer toolkit (Apex, Visualforce, force.com IDE, SOQL and WebServices/ Metadata API).  • Good knowledge on Apex development in creating Objects, Triggers, Apex Classes, Standard Controllers, Custom Controllers and Controller Extensions and lightning components.  • Strong experience in defining and managing custom Objects, creating page layouts, developing field validations, campaign Management, formulas and workflow rules using Salesforce.com and Eclipse IDE for Salesforce.  • Extensive work experience on designing of custom fields, role based page layouts, custom Tabs, custom reports, report folders, report extractions to various formats, design of Visualforce Pages, Snapshots, Dashboards, Apex Classes, Controllers & Triggers, and various other components as per the client and application requirements.  • Experienced in creating and activating the Marketing Campaigns in Salesforce.com.  • Experience working with Salesforce.com Sandbox and Production environments.  • Experience in working with Eclipse IDE with Force.com Plug-in environment for writing Business logic in Apex Programming Language.  • Experience in using lightning app builder  • Experience in building reusable UI components with lightning component framework.  • Proficient in administrating the organizational setup using Salesforce administration.  • Good experience in working with Cloud computing / SaaS technologies.  • Experience in using Force.com Web services API for implementing web services in the application for access to data from different users.  • Experience in designing junction objects and implemented various advanced fields like Pick list, Custom Formula Fields, Field Dependencies, Validation Rules, Work Flows, and Approval Processes for automated alerts, field updates, and Email generation according to application requirements.  • Experience in implementing security and sharing rules at object, field, and record level for different users at different levels of organization. Also created various profiles and configured the permissions based on the organizational hierarchy.  • Good understanding of Salesforce.com Governor Limits with an ability to optimize code to respect those limits.  • Proficient in Data Migration from Traditional Apps to Salesforce Using Data Loader Utility.  • Experience in writing Triggers, SOQL and SOSL statements.  • Hands on experience in using the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Good exposure on Design Patterns (Creational, Structural and Behavioral).  • Experience in designing skills with E-R Diagram and UML Diagrams.  • Extensive experience in developing enterprise applications using Java and J2EE technologies such as JSP, Servlets, Tiles, Struts, Spring, XML, XSL, HTML, JavaScript, JDBC and CSS.  • Good exposure to RDBMS, SQL and PL/SQL, writing SQL scripts for efficient report generation.  • Experienced in full life cycle application development from requirements gathering and design to UAT (User Acceptance Testing).  • Highly organized and dedicated with a positive attitude, capable of producing results immediately on hire.  • Customer centric with effective interpersonal, organizational and problem solving skills. Work Experience Salesforce Developer BlackRock, Madison Ave - New York, NY June 2017 to November 2018 Description:    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including analysis, requirement engineering, architecture design, development, enhancements, testing.  • Designed, developed and deployed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Developed various Visualforce Pages, Apex Triggers to include extra functionality and wrote Apex Classes and Controller to provide functionality to the visual pages.  • Created Custom Objects and fields for transactional and contractual information.  • Designed and deployed Custom tabs, validation rules, Approval Processes and Auto-Response Rules for automating business logic.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, email alerts, and field updates.  • Implemented pick lists, dependent pick lists, lookups, master detail relationships, validation and formula fields to the custom objects.  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists and other components on a record detail and edit pages.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, time triggered tasks, email alerts, filed updates to implement business logic.  • Created templates, approval processes, approval page layouts and defined approval actions on them to automate the processes.  • Created various Reports (summary reports, matrix reports, pie charts, dashboards and graphics) and Report Folders to assist managers to better utilize Salesforce as a sales tool and configured various Reports and for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  • Developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Used SOQL & SOSL for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Used field level security along with page layouts to manage access to certain fields.  • Used Force.com developer toolkit including Apex Classes, Apex Triggers and Visualforce pages to develop custom business logic.  • Created custom Dashboards for manager's home page and gave accessibility to dashboards for authorized people.  • Used Data loader to load the records on to the force.com platform.  • Implemented Salesforce Development Cycle covering Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Call Center, Chatter & App-exchange applications.  • Made new feature enhancements on Service cloud console view and developed some Visual force components.  • Created UI Pages using lightning app builder  • Created reusable UI components with lightning component framework.  • Experience in building reusable UI components with lightning component framework  • Involved in migrating the data from Oracle database to Salesforce application using Apex Data Loader.  • Used Informatica cloud service to integrate the data between systems.  • Involved in Data Migration from Traditional Apps to Salesforce Using Data Loader Utility.  • Performed Data Migration from home grown legacy system to Salesforce CRM.  • Experienced in Unit Testing, for the customizations and developments done during the project.  • Extracted the data from Salesforce.com application into the external databases for generating large data reports using the Informatica on Demand.  • Implemented data migration using Informatica on demand and data loading using Data loader, import wizard.  • Involved in the Data Transformation and Data Cleansing activities while transferring the data to the external system using Informatics on Demand.  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Involved with Salesforce.com Premier Support and handled the support cases with the help Salesforce.com support.    Environment: Salesforce.com, Force.com, Data Loader, Apex Classes, Controllers, Triggers, Visualforce, Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Data Migration, Informatica, SOQL, SOSL, Workflow & Approvals, Java Ant, Custom Reports, Dashboards, Oracle, Windows. Salesforce Developer Kar Auction Services October 2015 to May 2017 Description:    Responsibilities:  • Interacted with various business user groups for gathering the requirements for Salesforce implementation and documented the Business and Software Requirements.  • Developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application. Migrated data from external sources and performed insert, delete, upsert, export operations on millions of records.  • Used Force.com developer toolkit including Apex Classes, Apex Triggers and Visualforce pages to develop custom business logic.  • Designed and developed SFA based Application on Force.com Platform in Salesforce.com environment with Apex programming language at backend and Visualforce pages as user interface.  • Implemented the requirements on Salesforce.com platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse.  • Implemented pick lists, dependent pick lists, lookups, master detail relationships, validation and formula fields to the custom objects.  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on a record detail.  • Customized User Roles, Role hierarchies, Profiles and Sharing settings to ensure that the protected data is available only to the authorized users.  • Created templates, approval processes, approval page layouts and defined approval actions on them to automate the processes.  • Worked with SOQL, SOSL queries with Governor Limitations to store and download the data from Salesforce.com platform database.  • Implemented Sales cloud and incorporated the enhanced features as required to streamline the business process.  • Implemented Salesforce Service cloud and Opportunity Management (Case management, Entitlement management, Product & price book, High volume customer portal, Partner portal, Visual force sites) for business support and technical support for its channel customers.  • Designed and developed Service cloud and integration.  • Implemented Data Loader through the Command Line Interface to extract the data from database.  • Configured Chatter for the Users in the Organization for collaboration.  • Extensively involved in Data Migration from three legacy systems to Salesforce.  • Supported the Data Migration activities for migration the data from various business sources with the support of Salesforce.com.  • Migrated data from ACT CRM to Salesforce CRM using Informatica on Demand.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, email alerts, and field updates.  • Involved in data mapping and migration of data from legacy systems to Salesforce.com Objects and fields.  • Conducted training sessions to the UAT users to use the Salesforce Knowledge application and developed a feedback custom report.  • Supported end users and helped them in getting used to the application, generated reports and saved them for further access to the users.    Environment: Salesforce.com, Force.com, Apex Classes, Apex Triggers, Apex Controllers, Visualforce Pages, Eclipse, SOQL, SOSL, Service Cloud, Sales Cloud, Chatter, Data Loader, Data Migration, Page layouts, Roles, Custom Objects, Pick lists, Email alerts, Oracle and Windows Salesforce Developer Value Labs - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2014 to September 2015 Description:    Responsibilities:  * Designed, developed and deployed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  * Implemented sales cloud, service cloud and marketing cloud using pardot.  * Integrated salesforce and CPQ application to automate fulfillment process.  * Automated marketing cloud using pardot like lead qualification, lead management and sending messages.  * Developed various Visualforce Pages, Apex Triggers to include extra functionality and wrote Apex Classes and Controller to provide functionality to the visual pages.  * Created Custom Objects and fields for transactional and contractual information.  * Designed and deployed Custom Tabs, Validation Rules, Approval Processes and Auto-Response Rules for automating business logic.  * Implemented service cloud functionality like case management, field service management and CTI integration  * Working with CPQ deployment using change sets and github.  * Pick lists, dependent pick lists, lookups, master detail relationships, validation and formula fields to custom objects.  * Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists and other components on a record detail and edit pages. Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, time triggered tasks, email alerts, filed updates to implement business logic.  * Working with CPQ tools to manage products, offers and its' rate plans.  * Configured price quote according to state and income band using Apptus CPQ tool. Java Developer Apotex - Bengaluru, Karnataka June 2010 to July 2014 Description:    * The project is related to Income Support Division (ISD) which assists low income New Mexicans with various programs including SNAP, Cash Assistance, Medical Assistance, Energy Assistance and MSP.  * Developed many JSP pages, usedJavaScript for client side validation.  * MVC framework for developing J2EE based web application.  * Involved in all the phases of SDLC including Requirements Collection, Design & Analysis of the Customer specifications, Development and Customization of the Application.  * Developed the User Interface Screens for presentation using AJAX, JSP and HTML.  * Created and maintained mapping files and transaction control in Hibernate.  * Eclipse used as Java IDE toolforcreatingJSPs, Servlets, EJBs, and XML.  * Design and develop Servlets, Session and Entity Beans to implement business logic and deploy them on the Web Logic Application Server.  * Written and debugged the ANT Scripts for building the entire web application.  * Used XML to transfer the application data betweenClient and Server.  * XSLT style sheets for the XML data transformations that included both mid-layer transformations (XML to XML) and final transformations (XML to HTML).  * Developed webservices in Java and Experienced with SOAP, WSDL.  * Used the JDBC for data retrieval from the database for various inquiries.  * Perform purification of the application database entries using Oracle10g.  * Participate in Client side and Server side data validations using the JavaScript. Education Bachelor's Skills DATABASE, JDBC, MS SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER, MYSQL Links http://Salesforce.com