JAVA Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">JAVA</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> JAVA Full Stack Developer - United Health Group, OH Dublin, OH • Having 6 years of experience as a full stack java developer and worked on various domains like Healthcare, Insurance and Financial.  • Expertise in Core Java concepts such as OOP Concepts, Collections, Exception Handling, Multi-Threading and sound knowledge on Data Structure and Algorithms.  • Used design patterns like Singleton, Factory, MVC, and Template in the application development.  • Experienced in Java technologies such as Java/J2EE, Struts 2.X, Spring, Hibernate.  • Having Knowledge in various components of Spring like Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring MVC and experience with Spring Security, Spring JDBC Template, Spring Data JPA.  • Experience in developing web applications using JSP, servlet, JSTL, JMS and Spring.  • Good Understanding in implementing RESTful and SOAP Web Services using different APIs like JAX-WS, Jersey, JAX-RS based on Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  • Experienced in developing applications as Microservices using Spring Boot.  • Strong experience in RDBMS such as Oracle 12c/11g, DB2 and MySQL 6 for data storage purpose and NoSQL like Mongo DB.  • Used ORM with Hibernate to persist and retrieve the data from database.  • Experience in Apache Tomcat Server, JBoss, Web Logic/Sphere Application Server.  • Experience on implementing Message Oriented Middleware using RabbitMQ and ActiveMQ.  • Experienced in developing web applications using HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery along with AJAX call and customizing web features using CSS3 and Bootstrap3.  • Experience in Angular JS including, Routing, Services, Factories, Directives and Filters and sound knowledge on Angular 2.  • Hands-on experience in creating Full-Stack web application using MongoDB, Express, Angular JS and Node.JS (MEAN stack).  • Proficient in writing and executing test cases using JUnit 4.0 and used Jenkins for continuous integration and continuous deployment.  • Used GIT, SVN as version control tools for source code management and used MAVEN and ANT as a build tool.  • Used Test-Driven Development technique and implemented test cases using JUnit/Mockito.  • Used Jasper for reporting and JIRA for bug tracking purposes.  • Experience in developing project (SDLC) in Agile and Waterfall methodology.  • Hands-on experience with Amazon Web Services (AWS) like EC2, Lambda, S3 Bucket, DynamoDB, API Gateway, CloudFront, RDS, Elastic Beanstalk.  • Experience in writing Docker files and deploying them onto Docker containers.  • Had an experience working on Mule ESB to integrate applications and enable data exchange.  • Good team player with excellent communication and interpersonal skills, ability to work individually or part of a team, fast and keen learner who adapts to new technologies. Work Experience JAVA Full Stack Developer United Health Group, OH April 2018 to Present • The application was developed in Java/EE based on Spring Web MVC framework.  • Utilized Spring RESTful API to create RESTful Web Services, set JSON data type between front-end and the middle-tier controller, and handled CORS.  • Created and consumed SOAP Web Service, for securely retrieving and consumption of consumer data through WSDL.  • Implemented Authentication and Authorization with Spring Security.  • Participated in coding Spring AOP components for the Logging, Exception handling and Transactional Model to handle many requests.  • Generated Excel and PDF report by Apache POI.  • Used Spring Data JPA as Persistence framework to interact with Oracle 12c database.  • Developed a single page application using HTML5, JavaScript and Angular2 and customized the web features by CSS3 and Bootstrap3.  • Used Angular2 Http service for making requests to backend services.  • Launched and configure the AWS EC2 service, wrote Docker File and deployed the module in Docker Containers.  • Used Mule ESB to enable data exchange between applications by utilizing ActiveMQ, Http, File System and SFTP transport.  • Used Test-Driven Development technique and implemented test cases using JUnit.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration and continuous deployment.  • Used GIT for maintaining the version of the application and Maven as a build tool.  • Used JIRA for issue tracking bug and documentation.  • Working in an Agile/Scrum Development environment with frequently changing requirements and actively participating in daily scrum meetings and reviews with biweekly sprint deliveries. JAVA/J2EE Developer Metasystems - IN December 2015 to February 2018 • Developed application by using Microservice architecture along with Spring Boot and Spring framework technology, built the WAR file by Maven.  • Implemented Restful Web Service to get the auto insurance policy details, payment history and accident history of the customer.  • Implemented Authentication and Authorization with Spring Security.  • Participated in coding Spring AOP components for the Logging, Exception handling and Transactional Model to handle many requests.  • Used Spring Email for mailing administrator for any system related problem.  • Generated Excel and PDF report by Apache POI.  • Used Spring Data JPA as persistence framework to interact with Oracle 12c database.  • Deployed application WAR file on AWS Elastic Beanstalk.  • Developed function in policy module which sends notification to other module once the policy has been changed by using ActiveMQ.  • Developed web pages using HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery and AngularJS and customized the web features by CSS3 and Bootstrap3.  • Used AWS CloudFront for decreasing the latency.  • Used Amazon S3 Bucket for storing the static web pages and images.  • Used AWS ELB as load balancer to increase the capacity and reliability of the app.  • Implemented a light-weight report management system triggered by claims module by using AWS Lambda and AWS DynamoDB.  • Used Test-Driven Development technique and implemented test cases using JUnit.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration and continuous deployment.  • Used GIT for maintaining the version of the application and Maven as a build tool.  • Used JIRA for issue tracking bug and documentation.  • Working in an Agile/Scrum Development environment with frequently changing requirements and actively participating in daily scrum meetings and reviews with biweekly sprint deliveries. JAVA Developer Exert Info Tech - IN May 2013 to November 2015 • Wrote HQL for JDBC prepared statements to store and retrieve the data from Oracle 10g database using Hibernate 3.  • Replaced the Java code in web pages by JSTL.  • Developed the Web application using MVC patterns with Spring Framework along with Spring boot and Spring scheduler.  • Deployed the application on Apache Tomcat Server 7.0.  • Wrote stored procedures using PL/SQL for data entry and retrieval.  • Designed and developed the application to be responsive using HTML4, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery and Bootstrap2.  • Implemented JQuery AJAX calls in web pages to render the response on to UI.  • Managed source control and version control using SVN and used Maven as a built tool.  • Made various UI (User Interface) components reactive by Bootstrap library.  • Created visualization reports using Jasper Reports for monitoring.  • Developed test cases and performed unit test using JUnit Framework 4.11 in Test Driven Development (TDD) approach.  • Used GIT as a Version Control system and Jenkins for continuous build integration. Education Master's Skills Api, Client/server, Docker, Git, Javascript, Node.js, Jenkins, Json, Svn, Xml, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jax, Jax-ws, Jboss, Jms, jquery, Jsp Additional Information Skills  • Programming Languages \ Web Services: \: Java, JavaScript, Node.JS, HTML5, CSS3, \ SOAP (JAX-WS) & RESTful (JAX-RS, Jersey) \ XML, SQL, PL/SQL, JSP\  • J2EE Technologies \ Methodologies\: Spring (IOC, AOP, MVC), Spring\ Agile, Client/Server Architecture, SOA\ boot, Spring Security, JDBC, Hibernate\ Architecture and Microservices, Servlet, JSP, Struts2.x, JMS (ActiveMQ, \ RabbitMQ), Spring Cloud, Spring Data JPA\  • Web Servers \ Database Management Systems: \: Apache Tomcat\ WebLogic11\ MySQL6, Oracle, MongoDB \ JBoss\  • Testing & Logging Frameworks \ Version Control & Continuous Integration: \: JUnit, Mockito, JIRA, Log4j, Postman\ Git, SVN, Maven, Jenkins, Docker\  • Amazon web service \ Web Technologies: \: EC2, API Gateway, RDS, Lambda, CloudFront\ HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap3, JavaScript and\ DynamoDB, S3, Route 53, Elastic Beanstalk\ JQuery, AJAX, DOM, XML, JSON, JSP, \ IAM\ Angular2, Express, JSTL \  • Operating Systems\: Windows, Linux, Mac\