Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Domino's Pizza Detroit, MI • 5+ years of IT experience in Full Stack Development involving various phases of SDLC.  • Developed Web-based enterprise applications using Core Java, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Microservices, Hibernate, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Web Services using SOAP, REST, Spring REST with Spring Cloud Open Feign.  • Worked on creating Microservices and deploying Spring Boot applications on AWS using Amazon EC2 instance leveraging Docker.  • Expertise in using Object-Oriented Principles (OOP) and various Core Java features such as Multi-Threading, Data Structures, Generics, Exception Handling and Collections.  • Worked on Java8 features such as Lambda Functions, Functional Interfaces and Parallel Streams.  • Wrote Automation scripts in Java using Cucumber API leveraging Junit5 and ran regression tests.  • Worked on design patterns such as Business Delegate, Singleton, MVC and Data Access Object.  • Experience in unit testing using JUnit framework and developed logging and standard mechanism based on Log4J.  • Good knowledge on Amazon Web Services (AWS), Amazon Cloud Services like Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2), Simple Storage Service(S3), LAMBDA and experienced in building highly scalable java applications using various architectures.  • Developed rich user interfaces using HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, Node.js, jQuery, JavaScript, Ajax and JSON.  • Experienced in developing and implementing various Map Reduce Jobs using Java and Python for processing and performing analytics on large data sets and data cleaning.  • Strong understanding on Hadoop architecture and various components such as Spark, Map Reduce, Pig, Hive, Flume, Oozie, Sqoop, Impala and HBase.  • Experienced working with various databases like NoSQL Distributed Elastic Search, PostgreSQL, SQLite, SQL Server (RDBMS), MySQL, DB2 and ORACLE.  • Strong application development experience using Agile and Waterfall models.  • Excellent Interpersonal skills, time management and team building skills, self-motivated with an intention to work with passion to deliver high quality output. Work Experience Java Developer Domino's Pizza February 2019 to Present Domino's Pizza Ordering Application:  Description:  The aim of this project is to allow users to conveniently place Pizza orders online for different ordering clients like DOM Web Chat, Phone IVR, Facebook, Twitter, Slack, Alexa, Cortana etc.,  Responsibilities:  • Used Google Dialog Flow API to work with different agents and to train Pizza Ordering.  • Developed REST services using Feign Client Interface to communicate with backend exposed services.  • Integrated with store API's to get store related data, to place orders, get customer data, price details etc.,  • Developed a tool within the project which helps in debugging the application locally integrating both Splunk and Postman.  • Used Splunk for logging and the data is pushed to Active MQ for Analytics.  • Integrated with Splunk REST API to retrieve data sent from phone IVR to analytics  • Wrote Automation Scripts for Twitter channel leveraging Cucumber API, Open Feign, Junit5.  • Ran regression tests against different ordering clients for different environments. Java Developer University of Michigan - May, Michigan, US May 2018 to January 2019 Recommendation System for Movies:  Description:  The aim of this project is to build recommendation systems for movies dataset. A Hybrid model is developed by using both content based and collaborative based recommendation systems.  Responsibilities:  • Created a Web based Application using Core Java, Spring MVC, Servlets and analyzed Hadoop Ecosystem using Map Reduce, Hive, Pig and Sqoop.  • Performed RESTful Web service calls using Jersey API in Java.  • Wrote Pig UDF's in Java and Python to transform raw data to baseline data and to perform joins.  • Performed Unit Testing in Java using JUnit 5.  • Imported and exported movie datasets from local file system and RDBMS to HDFS using Sqoop.  • Developed User Interactive Screens using JSP, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery. Java Developer Tata Consultancy Services February 2016 to February 2017 Compass Project:  Description:  This project is developed for Vodafone, Telecommunications Company to increase the number of subscribers. This project mainly provides an interface to Clients to manage their users, increase their business and number of existing customers.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in data modeling, designing and developing using J2EE, Java, Servlets, Spring MVC and JSP.  • Implemented Spring Modules for developing & testing of Service Layer Business Components.  • Developed REST API's supporting both XML and JSON implementing Spring MVC.  • Extensively worked with making calls to APIs to fetch the data from the backend as JSON response and parse it on the UI for DOM/CSS Manipulation.  • Worked using core java concepts like Collection Framework, Multi-threading, Generics, Serialization, Thread pools.  • Actively used the defect tracking tool JIRA to create and track the defects of the project.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4J framework and fixed the problems.  • Used GIT for version control and tools like Maven, Jenkins for building and deploying applications.  • Built interactive and user-friendly screens using JSP, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS.  • Worked on analyzing Hadoop cluster and different big data analytic tools including Pig, Hive, Sqoop, Spark.  • Developed UDF functions in Java/Python to use in Hive and Impala for ease of usage in various requirements.  • Worked in an Agile-driven environment to effectively maintain project timelines and utilize resources. Java Developer Tata Consultancy Services February 2015 to January 2016 Supplier Value Network:  Description:  The aim of this project is to build a common interface for General Electronics (GE) to communicate with its network of suppliers and buyers. In addition, location updates for Purchase Orders and alternate route suggestions are also included.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for designing, coding and developing the application in J2EE using Spring MVC.  • Implemented Spring framework (Action & Controller classes) for dispatching request to appropriate classes.  • Implemented the persistence layer using Hibernate and developed the DAL (Data Access Layer) to store and retrieve data from the database.  • Designed and Developed End to End customer service module using annotation based Spring MVC, Hibernate, Java Beans and JQuery.  • Used Log4j to print the logging, debugging, warning, info on the server console.  • Wrote multiple test cases and performed Unit Testing in Java using Junit.  • Created REST based web services using JAX-RS library.  • Used HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and jQuery to create user login, search and dashboard interface.  • Developed single page applications (SPA) using Angular JS directives, controllers, view and service modules.  • Used GIT as repository to keep track and maintain different versions of the project. Java Developer Tata Consultancy Services March 2014 to February 2015 Life Sciences Crowdsourcing:  Description:  The project aim is to develop a dynamic web application where Physicians, Patients and Researchers can interact through communities and spheres. Discussions take place between different physicians, patients and researchers to reduce the gap between them.  Responsibilities:  • Implemented Spring MVC architecture to send and receive the data from front-end to business layer and used JDBC, Spring JPA and Hibernate to interact with the Database and implement database operations.  • Provided connections using Spring JDBC to database and developed SQL queries to manipulate the data.  • Worked on Spring annotations and XML configuration for Dependency Injection.  • Designed application modules, base classes and utility classes using core java.  • Developed presentation layer using JSP, HTML, CSS, AJAX and JavaScript.  • Developed Hive UDF's to convert epoch time to datetime format in Java.  • Worked on analyzing Hadoop cluster and different big data analytic tools including Pig, Hive and Sqoop. Java Developer Pointer array Technologies April 2013 to February 2014 Swastik Super Specialty Hospital  Description:  The project aim is to build common platform for doctors, patients and departments. Patients can book appointments via this portal and it would show up automatically in the doctor's schedule. This portal includes features like Add patient, Add doctor, Generate Bill, Generate Pay slip, Add Department etc.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed End to End customer service module using Spring MVC and Hibernate.  • Used Hibernate ORM framework as persistence engine, configured hibernate.xml file and Involved in Mapping, Coding and fine tuning of hibernate Queries.  • Customized RESTful Web Service using Spring REST API, sending JSON format data packets between front-end and middle-tier controller.  • Performed Extensive Exception handling mechanism for handling errors and exceptions in the application.  • Used Logging mechanism for capturing and logging error, info and debug messages using log4j.  • Created UI screens for modules like User Login, Adding New Users, Deleting Existing User, Generate Bill using web technologies HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery. Education MASTER OF SCIENCE in Computer and Information Science UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN May 2018 to December 2019 BACHELOR OF TECHNOLOGY in Electronics & Communication Engineering KAKATIYA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY & SCIENCES May 2013 Skills Spring Boot (4 years), Java (5 years), Javascript (5 years), J2Ee, JSP, Hibernate, Java J2Ee, Angularjs, Spring, MVC, JEE, Rest