Module Lead Module Lead Module Lead Plano, TX Around 9 yrs. of experience in the software development industry, especially in application  development in Web Technologies. Always ready to take up challenging work and keen to learn new  technologies. Work Experience Module Lead Payback September 2010 to May 2013 Technical skills: Java, OAuth 1.0a, SSO(SAML), Pl-sql, spring, jsp, jboss-1.0.5ga, oracle, Webservices  LMS (Loyalty Management System) is a customer rewards program which rewards loyalty points to customers on performing various activities like Purchasing, Fuelling, cell phone usage etc. The  basic concept is that the customer is rewarded with Imint points when he/she purchases articles at specific locations. These points can be redeemed for gifts/articles at specific partner locations.  My roles and responsibilities:  • Merged and deployed existing project on jboss-1.0.5ga successfully.  • Managing a small team and helping them to complete the required module till testing.  • Implemented and managed SSO and OAuth 1.0a single handed.  • Worked on design documentation. Java developer Singapore Airlines December 2009 to August 2010 Technical skills: Spring MVC webflow, hibernate, jsp, Javascript, junits, weblogic 10g server, Mysql, AndroMDA tool.  This project was redesign of existing booking site. It included search flight, book a flight, manage  booking, redemption etc. A developer's responsibilities were making domain model changes  including class diagrams and relationships in AndroMDA tool. Implementing java classes, junits, debugging, bug fixes. Java developer Scimitar January 2008 to December 2009 Technical skills: SpringMVC, Jsp, Javascript, Ajax, junits, tomcat server, Log4j, Ibatis framework, Mysql, oracle, Dhtmlx.  This is a QA product launched by Sapient. Its a true automation testing tool. This product  provides to write the testcases offline for the application from the starting of development and schedule for execution once the application is ready.  • Java implementation (front end to backend coding), testing and bug fixes.  • I was involved in design and implementation phase of the product.  • Helping team and mentoring new joiners. Java developer P&O Ferries August 2007 to December 2007 Technical skills: Spring framework, Jstl, webservices, junits, tomcat server, Log4j  This Application is for P&O clients. This is an internal replacement of a very old legacy system.  On the basis of client requirement use cases design and implementation was done by sapient  development team. This project was based on the agile methodology.  A developer was responsible for preparing flowcharts, designing, development & Junit. (Global Partner Portal) Java developer August 2006 to July 2007 Technical skills: Weblogic9.1, Vignetteserver7.2, WSRP, JSTL, Spring Framework, Toad, log4j, Junit.  This Application is developed for HP partners. The module is advance search. Using advance  search link, partners can search for a particular HP product. It has certain criteria's like only  registered partners can search or based on groups some special privileges are given to partners. Java developer GMART April 2006 to August 2006 Technical skills: Weblogic 8.1, Tomcat 4.1, JSP, Struts Framework, POI Framework, Oracle 8i, Toad, log4j.  This application is made for General Motors. Tool was managing registration forms, template  assignment, AIMD group assignment & deassignment, generation of the report. This tool converted  excel sheet reports to the java-based forms and saved to the DB by using transfer value objects. Education B.Sc in Computer applications Davi Ahilya University - Indore, Madhya Pradesh June 2015 to September 2016 Masters of Computer in applications Rajiv Gandhi Technical University - Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh Skills ECLIPSE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, JBOSS