Python Developer Python <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Walgreens Chicago, IL • Around 6 years of competitive work experience in Software Design, Development, Maintenance, and Enhancement & Implementation of Enterprise applications using Python, Django, FLASK, Java, J2EE technologies with strong Object-Oriented Programming skills.  • Experience with Django, high-level Python Web frameworks.  • Worked in Python Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm.  • Experience object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python.  • Experience in developing RESTful API's using Django REST Framework, consumed via Rectangular, a 3rd party Angular.JS service.  • Experience in Implementation of MVC/ MVW architecture using Servlet, Django, and RESTful, SOAP webservice and SOAPUI.  • Hands-on experience in developing web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python Flask, Django and PHP.  • Experience in Web development with Python and Django, with good understanding of ORM and SQL Alchemy, SQL, ETL, Bash/Linux, Asynchronous task queues with Celery and RabbitMQ.  • Expertise in designing rich Graphic User Interface (GUI)/Single Page Applications (SPAs) and frontend layouts on the web using CSS, HTML, XML, DHTML, JavaScript, JSON, AJAX, XSLT, XAML and JQuery, Bootstrap, Node.js, Angular.js, Angular2, Angular4, TypeScript, React JS, backbone.js, Require.js.  • Experienced in SQL and PL/SQL programming, developing complex code units, database triggers and using the latest features to optimize performance (Global Temporary Tables, Inline views, Materialized views and Bulk Binds).  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML and JavaScript.  • Experience in developing python scripts for automation and performing functional tests and data validation.  • Excellent knowledge of OOPS, Multi-Threading and Collections concepts and in Python.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and JavaScript.  • Proficient and strong working knowledge of J2EE Architectural & Design Patterns, SOAP Web Services JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, REST, Spring Frame work, Struts, Servlets, JSP, JSF, JMS, EJB, Hibernate.  • Experience in Core Java concepts such as OOPS Concepts, Collections Framework, Exception Handling, I/O System, Multi-Threading and JDBC.  • Strong experience in design, developing and implementation of Object Oriented, Component based N-tier, Client/Server, B2E, B2B, B2C and E-commerce.  • Proficient in developing Apache ANT and Maven scripts to build J2EE enterprise applications.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Webservices  • Good experience with Amazon Cloud EC2, Simple Storage Service S3 and Amazon SQS.  • Expertise in working with server-side technologies including databases, Restful API and MVC design patterns.  • Hands on Experience with parallel computing, multithreading, Experience with JSON based REST Web services  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and MongoDB database.  • Excellent debugging, problem solving, optimization and testing skills.  • Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to build and manage a team and work individually.  • Excellent written and oral communication skills with results-oriented attitude. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Walgreens - Chicago, IL October 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed Views and Templates with Django view controller to create a user-friendly website interface  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML5, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Created APIs, database Model and Views Utilization Python in order to build responsive web page application.  • Used GitHub for Python source code version control, Jenkins for automating the build Docker containers, and deploying in Mesos, Aws S3.  • Developed automation solution to communicate commands from cloud to devices.  • Involved in cloud application deployment using Nginx web servers on Amazon EC2.  • Migrated the Django database from SQLite3 to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Worked on REST API calls and integration with UI. Used AngularJS to develop the component to the application team, Spring MVC to consume REST API's and used JavaScript, CSS3 and JQuery to display the data in front end.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Stored the data in the form of JSON structure-based documents, stored in a collection using MongoDB.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI and web application testing using Rspec.  • Automated the continuous integration and deployments using Jenkins, Docker, Ansible and AWS Cloud Templates.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment (E-commerce)  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  • Implemented monitoring and established best practices around using elastic search.  • Involved in database-driven web application development using a variety of frameworks such as Django on Python.  • Created Docker images, upload/download in and out from the Docker Hub.  • Developed UI for handling different phases of exceptions for the data in SQL Server database and fix them.  Environment: Python 2.6/2.7, JavaScript, Django Framework 1.3, CSS, SQL, MySQL, JQuery, Apache web server, AWS Python Developer Hudson Insurance - Alpharetta, GA August 2016 to September 2018 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive webbased solution.  • Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records  • Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Having very good experience with BIG DATA  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions  • Created UI Screens for initiation and validation.  • Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python and PHP to view performance.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  Environment: Python, Django, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Wireshark, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX. Python Developer PNC Bank February 2016 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Expertise in Python and Django Framework to develop application.  • Made use of advanced python packages like NumPy, Scipy for various sophisticated numerical and scientific calculations.  • Utilized Python specific tools including Django, Django Rest Framework, Django ORM, Flask, SQLAlchemy, Pandas, Numpy.  • Designed and Developed REST Webservices to interact with various business sectors and used SOAP protocol for webservices communication.  • Knowledge of agile development (SCRUM) and continuing integration.  • Used Pandas datamining library for statistics Analysis & NumPy for Numerical analysis.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Built various graphs using Matplotlib package which helped in taking business decisions  • Created Restful API's to integrate and enhance functionalities of the application. Also Utilized Restful API in communicating with third parties.  • Worked on automation using the Python scripting language  • Involved and played a leading role in database migration projects from Oracle to MongoDB.  • Worked with continuous integration and automation using JENKINS & Used JIRA for tracking and Updating Project issue.  • Designed and developed Use-Case, Class and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for Object Oriented Analysis/Object Oriented Design techniques.  • Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing test cases.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using JSON and involved in AJAX driven application by invoking web services/API and parsing the JSON response.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MongoDB and custom tools developed in Python.  Environment: Python, Django, Oracle, Linux, REST, PyChecker, SQLAlchemy, PyCharm, Sublime, HTML, Java  script, jQuery, JSON, Shell scripting, GIT. JAVA Developer Infosys Limited June 2012 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with business analysts, project managers and project leaders to analyze business requirements, used J2EE design patterns like Factory, Singleton involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as requirement gathering, modeling, analysis, architecture design and development.  • Developed dynamic web pages using HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Bootstrap, AJAX for building up a Monolithic application.  • Created JSP, JavaScript, JQUERY & HTML, extensively used various collection classes like Array List, Hash Map, Hash Table and Hash Set.  • Extensively used Hibernate 4.3in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Created RESTful Webservices in pushing data to downstream systems  • Worked with JAXB, used JBoss Application Server that implements the Java Platform, Enterprise Edition ( Java EE)  • Involved in developing & consuming Web services using WSDL, SOAP, AXIS and XFire among others.  • Involved in the implementation of the MVC architecture using spring.  • Involved in Spring MVC model integration for front-end request actioncontroller.  • Developed the Use case, Sequence and Class diagrams using UML/Rational Rose, used Spring MVC to decouple business logic and view components, involved in developing/coding the core framework classes and developed web services using JAX-WS to make use of existing applications.  • Used Spring MVC (Model View Controller) to handle/intercept the user requests and used various controllers to delegate the request flow to the Backend tier of the application.  • Created new database connection for MYSQL.  • Implemented Spring Security for providing authentication and authorization for web services.  Environment: J2EE, Servlet/filters, JSP, Spring MVC, Spring boot, Spring Security, Hibernate 3.0, Ajax, Apache Camel, MYSQL, WebSphere, Tomcat, Eclipse STS, MAVEN, Log4J, Jenkins, JProfiler, JMeter, Git, JIRA, JUnit. Education Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science in Computer Science J B Institute of Engineering & Technology Master of Engineering in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Cincinnati - Cincinnati, OH Skills DJANGO, DOCKER, Hadoop, Hive, HTML, Python (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Languages: Python, SQL, JAVA/J2EE, Apex, R, Hive  Python: NumPy, SciPy, Scikit-Learn, pandas  Data Visualization: Matplotlib, Plotly  Data Mining Statistics: Statsmodels  Web Technologies: HTML5/HTML, CSS, JSF, AJAX, JSON, Visualforce, Django, Flask, JavaScript  Version control Tools: GitHub  Database: Oracle, PostgreSQL, MySQL, NoSQL  Data Migration Tools: Data Loader, Workbench, Data Import wizard  Softwares/IDE: Jupyter Notebook, Apache Hadoop, Spark, Eclipse  Cloud: AWS, Docker