Salesforce Developer/Administrator Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Administrator Salesforce Developer/Administrator - Alignment Healthcare Orange, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Salesforce Developer/Administrator Alignment Healthcare - Orange, CA July 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Perform detailed analysis of business and technical requirements and designed the solution by customizing various standard objects of Salesforce.com (SFDC) and other Platform based technologies like Visual Force, Force.com API, and Web Services.  • Created custom applications on Force.com Platform for multiple business requirements.  • Created a user interface for custom applications using the Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Page Layouts, Record Types and Customization options.  • Created Custom Fields, Custom Reports, Triggers, Field help, Custom Formulas and Field History Tracking.  • Administered SOQL and SOSL queries to get data from different related objects and Used Force.com Explorer for SOQL testing.  • Designed, and developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes, and extensions for various functional needs in the application.  • Upgraded from Salesforce Classic to Salesforce Lightning.  • Developed Lightning components using Lightning app builder by incorporating Lightning Design system styles in the components for salesforce1 and lightning.  • Created and Debugged Lightning Components, building with Lightning App Builder and Visualforce with the new Lightning Design System  • Worked on Agile methodologies where requirements, design, testing, deployment needs to be done as early as possible.  • Implemented automated business processes using Workflow rules, Apex triggers, Assignment rules, Approval processes, process builder and Flows.  • Configured the User permissions based on the organizational hierarchy.  • Using Apex Data Loader and Import Wizard for migrating records to sources and loaded data into Call Center application and for cleaning of data.  • Designed various complex Web pages in Visual Force using JavaScript, HTML5, Bootstrap, Angular JS and jQuery.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, Angular JS, Ajax, CSS and JavaScript.  • Created templates using CSS, approval processes, approval page layouts and defined approval actions on them to automate the processes.  • Involved in Test configuration Apttus within Sandbox environments to ensure that once users are granted access, all the aspects are fully functional.  • Worked on Salesforce Communities and created VF pages for Communities.  • Developed the Visual force pages for the Manual Registration of users and login Process leveragingsites and Communities functionality provided by Salesforce.  • Maintained security such as user accounts, mobile user accounts, sharing rules, user roles, user profiles, field level security, and list view rights.  • Created Email templates and inbound emails using Visual force for the clients and customers.  • Developed and scheduled various Batch Apex classes using Apex Schedulable classes on hourly basis.  • Integration of Sales Cloud with external information systems using SOAP API web services.  • Built custom ApexREST resources to support intranet applications that can leverage existing salesforce application throughout the company.  • Used SOQL & SOSL for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Worked on Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Customer Portal and salesforce Chatter.  • Worked with various salesforce.com Standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Cases, Campaigns, Reports, and Dashboards.  • Created various Custom objects and defined relation among them using Lookup, Master-Detail Relation, Rollup summary.  • Build the Role Hierarchy System in Salesforce.com and created Profiles setup according the Profiles.  • Used Data Loader for insert, update, and import, export of data from Salesforce.com objects.  • Configured Chatter for the Users in the Organization for collaboration.  • Created Email templates in Text, HTML and visual Force necessary for the application.  • Developed visual Force pages with JavaScript and Apex classes.  • Written Apex Test classes to Unit test Apex classes before moving to Production.  • Created and maintained the documentation for Design, Migration and Integration.  • Implemented Sale cloud and configured Account Teams, Opportunity Sales Process, Web-to-Lead and Assignment rules; Email-to-Case, Web-to-Case, Auto-response and Escalation rules on Cases.  • Used Process builder to convert existing workflow rules into Process Builder and one Process flow each object.  • Deployed applications from sandbox to sandbox/production using ant migration tool, Eclipse and Change Set.  • Audited data regularly to uncover data integrity issues and opportunity for process improvement.    Environment: Salesforce CRM, Apex Language,Visualforce pages, Triggers, Batch, Schedule, Controllers, Web Services, Lightning Components, Salesforce1, Process Builder, Workflows, Approval Process, Sharing Rules, Reports, Dashboards, SSO, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Eclipse IDE, Data Loader, Force.com Ant Migration tool, Change Sets, Git. Salesforce Developer PNC Bank, Pittsburgh November 2015 to July 2018 Responsibilities:  • Worked extensively on Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Opportunities, Activities, other Standard Objects and Customized Objects for additional fields, Layouts, record types and validation rules. Responsible for setting up login Restrictions and resetting the user passwords.  • Written Apex controller classes, Triggers and Utility classes which are commonly used across multiple Apex classes. Implemented best practices, design patterns and coding standards in building Apex classes and Visualforce pages.  • Involved in upgradation from Salesforce Classic to Salesforce Lightning.  • Gained basic knowledge on Lightning App Builder to develop apps visually, without code using Custom-Built Lightning Components.  • Worked on Salesforce shield (Combination of platform encryption, Event monitoring, and field audit trail).  • Involved in deploying the AppExchange applications and integrating with third-party applications  • Managed Salesforce integration with existing systems and third-party providers.  • Interacted with various Business users for requirements gathering.  • Developed various Custom Objects, Tabs, validation rules, formula fields.  • Developed custom Business logic using Apex Classes, Visual force pages. Used Visual force components like Page Block, Command Buttons, Action support, Action Function.  • Customized Chatter objects and tabs to view progress and discussion on business process.  • Designed formulas to set up workflow rules, process builder and defined related tasks, time triggered actions, email alerts, field updates to implement business logic.  • Worked with SOQL, SOSL queries with Governor Limitations to store and download the data from Salesforce.com platform database.  • Perform detailed analysis of business and technical requirements and developed the Apex classes using other Platform based technologies like Visualforce, Force.com IDE  • Managed and deployed Salesforce.com CRM solution to multiple departments within the organization.  • Managed Users, hierarchical Roles, Profiles, Security controls.  • Migrated Accounts, Leads, Contacts, Opportunities and Sales data from external systems into SFDC.  • Worked on Approval process, Process builder and workflows to automate business process without depending on custom code development.  • Implemented Web-to-Lead and custom Lead conversion by writing Apex Classes and Visualforce Pages.  • Configured Email-to-Case, Assignment, Escalation and Auto-response rules on the Case object and configured CTI and entitlements on cases.  • Used Salesforce Automation Process (SAP), Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, time-triggered tasks, email alerts, field updates to implement business logic.  • Developed integrations using SOAP and REST Web Services.  • Experience in bulk Data Migration from external systems to Salesforce.com using Apex Data Loader, Import Wizard and Informatica Cloud.  • Developed dynamic salesforce.com Visual force pages using Apex page functions and actions, designing them using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Used Force.com Eclipse IDE plug-in to manage, author, debug and deploy Force.com applications in the Eclipse development environment.  • Created custom buttons and links on Account and Relationship Group object for generating auto Reports.  • Developed Custom report types, Reports and Dashboards for various users and enabled permissions to various Profiles to the Reports and Dashboard folders.  • Deployed applications from Sandbox to Production using Change Sets.  • Experience in Data Migration from Excel, MS Outlook and Legacy Systems using Data Loader, Import Wizard, Data Loader.  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Good understanding of Governor limits and optimized code not to reach Governor Limits.  • Good experience in implementing best practices and coding techniques.    Environment: Windows XP, Salesforce.com CRM, Forec.com IDE, Force.com Explorer, Demand tool, Data Loader, Visualforce, Apex, Workflows, Validation Rules, Page Layouts, Web services, JavaScript, HTML, AJAX, Java. Salesforce Developer Netrovert software Pvt. Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana November 2013 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with sales team and business analysts to perform detailed analysis of business and technical requirements and to design the solution by customizing various standard objects of SalesForce.com (SFDC).  • Worked on various Salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Cases, Opportunities, Products, Opportunity Line Items, Leads, Campaigns, Reports and Dashboards.  • Designed and deployed the Custom objects, Custom tabs, Entity-Relationship data model, validation rules, Workflow Rules, Auto-Response Rules, Page layouts, Components, Visualforce Pages to suit to the needs of the application.  • Worked on Validation Rules, Workflows and Approval Processes.  • Designed Custom Objects and developed and deployed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Created Custom Visual force components and attributes to override the look and feel of standard Visual force components  • Developed Visualforce page using the extension controller according to the clients' requirement.  • Used Apex Explorer and Apex Data Loader to Manage and Query the data.  • Created various Reports (summary reports, matrix reports, pie charts, dashboards and graphics) and Report Folders to better utilize Sales force as a sales tool and configured various Reports for different user profiles based on the needs of the organization.  • Created custom Dashboards for manager's home page and gave accessibility to dashboards for authorized people.  • Created layouts tailored to Business needs and partner programs by customizing portal layout, lead forms, data fields and tabs.  • Created Custom Profiles, Public Groups and Roles to distribute user rights and functionality.  • Used Data Loader for insert, update, and bulk import or export of data from Salesforce.com subjects. Used it to read, extract and load data from comma separated values (CSV) files.  • Involved in data mapping and migration of data from legacy systems to Salesforce.com Objects and fields.  • Developed Unit test class for Apex class and worked for improving code coverage.  • Developed SOQL and SOSL queries to get data from different related objects and Used Force.com Explorer for SOQL testing.  • Designed and developed Batch Classes to handle bulk logic and invoked the batch Class from Trigger Context asynchronously.  • Managed Different SFDC Sandbox environments for Dev/Test/UAT and Training.  • Developed Triggers for standard objects.  • Created email templates, approval processes, approval page layouts and defined approval actions on them to automate the processes.  • Used Force.com web service API for implementing WSDL in the application for access to data from external systems and web sites.    Environment: Saleforce.com CRM, Force.com, SOQL, SOSL, Apex Classes, Visualforce Pages, Triggers, Workflow, Approvals, Reports, Dashboards, Objects, Tabs, Email Templates, Data Loader, Demand tool, HTML, Java Script, Eclipse, Windows XP. DMV Business & Market Research Pvt. Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2012 to October 2013 SalesforceDeveloper    Responsibilities:  • Implementedand configured various Standard Objects such as Accounts, Contacts, Opportunities, Campaigns, Cases, and Solutions.  • Implemented various advanced fields including Picklist fields, validation fields, Master-Detail Fields, Custom Formula Fields, and defined Field Dependencies for custom Picklist fields.  • Designed and Implemented the Custom Business objects, Entity-Relationship data model, Page layouts, Custom tabs, Components to suit the needs of the application.  • Designed formulas to set up workflow rules and defined related tasks, time triggered actions, email alerts, field updates to implement business logic.  • Configure and Set up relationship between various objects using look up and master detail relationship  • Responsible for Loading data into salesforce.com using Apex Data Loader, Import Wizard  • Responsible for migrating data from one Sandbox environment to another Sandbox environment using Force.com IDE tool and Change Sets.  • Used SOAP and REST API for integrating different applications with salesforce.  • Developed Custom Reports and Dashboards as per given requirements.  • Implemented Auto-Response for automating business logic.  • Worked on Apex Triggers and Apex Classes for custom logic using SOQL and SOSL.  • Used Data Loader for export and import of CSV files.    Environment: Apex Classes, Controller Classes, Triggers, Visualforce, Salesforce.com Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Page layouts, Email Services, SOQL, SOSL, Sandbox, Force.com IDE. Java/J2EE Developer Tata teleservices ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2010 to April 2012 Responsibilities:  • Played an active role in the team by interacting with welfare business analyst/program specialists and converted business requirements into system requirements.  • Developed analysis level documentation such as Use Case, Business Domain Model, Activity & Sequence and Class Diagrams.  • Conducted Design reviews and Technical reviews with other project statehood Implemented Services using Core Java.  • Written XML Document Type Definition (DTD) to get data from GPSIS in specific format.  • Modified current database design to accommodate required changes.  • Design/Develop personal measure module in IBSC to manage individual client's personal measures.  • Utilized existing STRUTS framework as well as written Action Dispatchers, JDBC Mappers, JSPs Custom Tags.  • Integrate module in current application and test in various environments like Test, Pre-Production, and Production.  • Used Struts Framework for configuration of action mappings and presentation logic in JSP  • Involved in testing applications in different stages e.g. TEST, Preproduction, and Production.  • Involved in Critical Bug fixes and Enhancement of application.  • Developed application based on SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle).  • Used JUnit to write repeatable tests (regression testing), mainly for unit testing.  • Developed the web pages JSP, CSS, JavaScript.  • Developed Business logic on Java beans and setup connection with database.  • Managed Source Code in CVS environment.  • Implemented store procedures and triggers using PL/SQL.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, MVC, HTML, JavaScript, Struts, PL/SQL, Design Patterns, Web logic, Ant, JUnit, CVS, ORACLE 9i, Tag Libraries, Web Services, SOAP, WSDL. Education Bachelor's Skills C++, Exchange, Html, Scripting, Xml Links http://SalesForce.com Additional Information Technical Skills    Salesforce Technologies  App Exchange, Apex Triggers, Apex Classes, SOQL, SOSL, Visual Force Pages, Force.com Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Workflow & Approvals, Dashboards, Reports, Analytic Snapshots, Custom Objects    Languages Apex, Java, SQL, PL/SQL, C, C++ and UNIX Shell Scripting.  Salesforce Tools  Force.com Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Force.com Explorer, Apex Data Loader, Force.com Excel Connector, Force.com Platform (Sandbox, and Production)    Tools Apex Data loader, Sublime, Mavens Mate, GitHub, Eclipse IDE Plug-in.  Database MS Access, Oracle 11gR1/R2, Oracle 10gR2, SQL Server  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, Java Script, jQuery, XML, XSLT, Java/J2EE, Servlet, JSP, Struts  Visualization Tools Tableau 8.3 Desktop, Tableau Server and Reader  Operating Systems Windows 98/NT/XP/Vista/7, UNIX