Fullstack Java Developer Fullstack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Fullstack Java Developer - Cigna Health Care Bloomfield, CT ? Around 8 years of experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Software Engineering including requirement gathering, analyzing, designing, implementing, testing, support, and maintenance of client-server applications.  ? Expertise in building web and enterprise applications in domains including Healthcare, Banking and Financial  ? Strong in Java/J2EE design patterns and other object-oriented concepts (OOPS).  ? Developed ANT Scripts and used MAVEN tool to build and deploy J2EE Applications.  ? Designed and developed multiple J2EE Model 2 MVC based Web Application using J2EE Technologies and popular open-source framework Struts Framework, Spring MVC, Spring Framework, Spring Boot, Hibernate ORM Framework.  ? Expertise in implementing Web Services based on Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using SOAP, Restful Web Services.  ? Creating Rich UI applications using Angular 2/4/6 integrating with REST API's built on Microservices  ? Experience in the developing professional web applications using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON, XHTML, XML and Node.js  ? Experience in Server-side messaging using camel and JMS and development experience at server-side using technologies EJB, Web Services, XML, Oracle, MySQL Server.  ? Hands on experience in developing Single Page Applications (SPA) using AngularJS  ? Expert knowledge of JavaScript frameworks such as Angularjs, Media Query and libraries like Backbone JS.  ? Working on creating a distributed network by hosting the application on AWS cloud, Amazon EC2 servers.  ? Experience in working with automation tools like selenium and continuous integration tool JENKINS.  ? Experience in Configuration and deployment of multi-tier applications using servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat.  ? Handled all the port mapping/binding things that happen with Dockers and Containers.  ? Solid Hands-on experience in end to end implementation of CI and CD (Continuous Delivery), DevOps processes using AWS Code Commit AW  ? Experience in Enterprise Integration Development using Apache Camel, JMS, and Webservices.  ? Excellent understanding of PL-SQL programming. Develop, implement and optimize stored procedures, functions, views using PL-SQL, also worked with various databases like Oracle, MySQL, DB2 and MS SQL Server  ? Experience in processing semi-structured and unstructured datasets.  ? Strong independent learning ability, team player, easily adaptable to different development environments, collaborative, highly motivated and dedicated to delivering quality software  ? Actively participated in daily scrum meetings, sprint planning sessions, sprint reviews, and retrospectives.  ? Experience with Test Driven Development, paired programming and refactoring code Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Fullstack Java Developer Cigna Health Care - Bloomfield, CT November 2017 to Present Description: Cigna, a leading Health Services company, helps deliver meaningful value back to the Healthcare space. It is a global health service company dedicated to helping people improve their health, well-being and sense of security and other related products that serve customers around the world    Responsibilities  • Participating in application solutions including assisting with planning and architectural design, development, resolution of technical issues, and application rationalization.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component-based architecture provided by Angular 4.  • Involved in writing the front-end code for the application using Angularjs.  • Implemented the presentation layer (GUI), based on open source framework, involving Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JSF, CSS3, HTML5, JavaScript and GWT.  • Used jQuery, Angular JS,and Node JS to develop the rich user interface and to invoke RESTful Web Services to perform various operations.  • Used Maven for developing build scripts and deploying the application into WebLogic.  • Performed backend operations using Hibernate and native SQL on various databases.  • Developed single page applications using Angular 4/6, Typescript, HTML5, CSS3, and Bootstrap.  • Developed user specific Highlights (dashboard menu) section, Home Page, Admin home page, user module using Spring framework, Hibernate ORM module, Spring Core Module, XML, JSP,and XSLT.  • Worked on Web Services using Java API for XML, JSON Services (JAX_RS) and worked on the build, deploying RESTful web services.  • Developing application design guidance and consultation, utilizing a thorough understanding of applicable technology, tools, and existing designs.  • Used AngularJS and Handlebars.js framework where data from backend is stored in model and populated it to UI.  • Developed stored procedures and triggers using PL/SQL to calculate and update the tables to implement business logic using Oracle database.  • Involved in build and deployment of microservices with Jenkins.  • Conducted code review session at the end of the sprint and be the point of contact for code quality.  • Created computing and data resources on AWS using EC2.  • Deployed containers and Microservices in AWS using EC2 Container Services. Designed, configured and deployed Amazon Web Services (AWS) for a multitude of applications utilizing the Amazon cloud formation.  • Implemented the Account Management microservice that used Spring Data to implement a JPA and Spring Rest to provide a Restful Interface based on Spring Boot application.  • Wrote several Playbooks and created various roles for applications using Ansible and deployed the Applications/Services on the client hosts.  • Integrated Ansible to manage all existing servers and automate the build/configurations of new Servers  • Used several Ansible modules which include scripting (bash, command), cloud modules,  • Used Tomcat server for the application development and Utilized JIRA for task scheduling, quality control activities like defect tracking and fixing.  • Developed test suites in Selenium WebDriver ( Java) with TestNG framework in Eclipse IDE for regression and sanity testing.  • Build the application using Maven and used Jenkins for continuous integration.  • Writing complex SQL queries, using object-relational mapping libraries (iBATIS/Hibernate/Toplink) and MVC frameworks (Spring MVC/Struts 2) as well as building and consuming SOAP and REST services    Environment: Java 8.0, REST, Spring, AWS, Struts, JSF, EJB, jQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap, JSON, Toad, IBM Websphere Application Server 7.x, Spring Boot, Docker, React JS, SQL Server, DB2, Clear Case, Selenium, UM L, JSP, JIRA, Jenkins, Microservices, Agile, Git, and JUnit Fullstack Java Developer WSFS Financial Corporation - Newark, DE February 2016 to October 2017 Description: WSFS is a multibillion-dollar financial services company. Its primary subsidiary, WSFS Bank, provides comprehensive financial services including commercial banking, retail banking, cash management and trust and wealth management.    Responsibilities:  • Participated in the complete software development lifecycle tasks (design, coding, testing, and documentation).  • Responsible for preparing the use cases and for designing and developing object models, class diagrams with UML Specifications.  • Designed and Developed UI for Customer Service Modules and Reports using Angular2.0, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, and jQuery Created web application prototype using JavaScript and AngularJS.  • Implemented nested views and routing using Angular UI Router as per the requirement. GUI was developed using JSP, HTML, and AngularJS and created reusable components in Angular2.0 using Custom Directives Filters, Services, and Partials.  • Customized Restful Web Service using Spring RESTful API, sending JSON format data packets between front-end and middle-tier controller.  • Called REST web services through AngularJS services to get JSON Object and modified the response object to display in UI.  • Design and develop microservices, J-Unit test cases, mock creation and fix defects.  • Developed the backend tier using Spring Boot framework providing Dependency management.  • Developed the application under Core Java, J2EE Architecture using REST, JBoss, Node.js, backbone.js, EXT JS, spring, Struts, Hibernate, Servlets, Web logic, Swing, Agile, Eclipse, Jenkins, and JSP.  • Developed API to Integrate with Amazon EC2 cloud-based architecture in AWS, including creating machine Images.  • Developed views using Bootstrap components, Angular-UI and involved in configuring routing for various modules using angular UI router.  • Designed and developed the REST based Microservices using the Spring Boot  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST API s and Spring Boot for microservices.  • Developed the application using Spring MVC intensively that leverages classical MVC architecture and JavaScript for major data entry that involved an extreme level of data validation at the client side.  • Developed REST API's using Spring MVC and spring boot, hosted all microservices on Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF).  • Implemented continuous deployment system with Jenkins, AWS: Code Deploy, Ops Works, and Packer for deployment of Java Applications.  • Designed and developed the REST based Microservices using the Spring Boot, Spring Data with JPA.  • Used Junit and Mockito framework for unit testing of application and Log4j 1.2 to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions  • Developed unit test cases using Jasmine and Karma as unit test runner for various application modules.    Environment: Java, HTML5, Angular 2.0, jQuery, JavaScript, Spring Batch, Node.js, Bootstrap, Spring 4.0, Apache 7.0, log4j, Hibernate, Maven, Tortoise SVN, Spring Boot, Rest web services, Docker, AWS, Microservices, maven, jQuery, JIRA, Eclipse Kepler, XML, MySQL. Sr. Java Developer First Financial Bank March 2014 to January 2016 Description: First Financial Bank will be the leading provider of financial services in our markets; dedicated to growth by consistently exceeding the expectations of our customers while treating our employees fairly and respectfully    Responsibilities:  • Involved in software development life cycle (SDLC), which includes requirement-gathering, design, coding, testing.  • Developed Project Specific Java API's for the new requirements with the Effective usage of Data Structures, Algorithms, and Core Java, OOPS concepts.  • Developed web service for web store components using RESTful API using Java & Spring.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, jQuery, UML  • Experience in Object Oriented design, Systems Analysis, Software &Web Application development.  • Developed business modules using Hibernate & Spring framework technologies.  • Responsible for analysis, design, development, and integration of backend components using J2EE technologies such as Springs 3 and Spring JDBC and EJB's.  • Analyzing the execution plan and choosing the optimized query for the DB operation using SQL Developer.  • Implemented Microservices architecture using Spring Boot for making application smaller and independent.  • Developed Project Specific Java API's for the new requirements with the Effective usage of Data Structures, Algorithms, and Core Java, OOPS concepts.  • Developed web service for web store components using RESTful API.  • Used XML, XSD and JSON messages for Data transfer. Used JAXB API and DOM for XML parsing messages.  • Developed application Specific thread safe XML APIs, XML Document Builder and parser utils, validators using java DOM Parser which is used among the components.  • Implemented Business logic in the middle-tier using Java classes, Java beans.  • Created and modified Complex SQL Commands.  • Database designing and tables, master data creation in the database.  • Good in writing build files with ANT, Maven.  • Used Sonar for maintaining the code quality and JUnit code coverage.  • Created and Modified Jasper Reports and having good Knowledge of Jasper server.    Environment: JDK1.6, J2EE, JDBC, Servlets, Spring, Spring MVC 4.1.5, Spring JDBC, EJB3.0, XML, Hibernate ORM, HTML5, JBoss Studio, JBoss Server, SVN, Maven, Windows OS, Log4j, Junit, JIRA. Full Stack Java Developer Jefferies & Company - New York, NY January 2013 to March 2014 Description: Jefferies Group LLC is an American multinational independent investment bank and financial services company that is headquartered in New York City. The firm provides clients with capital markets and financial advisory services, institutional brokerage, securities research, and asset management    Responsibilities:  • Worked in an Agile Environment and participated in requirement gathering, analysis,and design  • Implemented Business Delegate, Design, Facade, Service locator, Singleton, Factory method, Template method, Observer, Data Access Objects, Transfer Objects JEE design patterns.  • Implemented the service layer based on a Spring container and exploited Spring's IOC features for bean management.  • Implemented the persistence layer using Hibernate-ORM. Worked on Spring Web Flow on Spring MVC for building flows in our web application.  • Implemented jQuery based accordion styles and handled complete jQuery in showing Rich Internet Application.  • Responsible for creating an efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and AngularJS.  • Coded in AngularJS MVC Framework to make single page app (spa) and complex price configurations pages.  • Wrote several Angular controllers, services, and providers to achieve the migration.  • Developed application of spring framework by utilizing its features like Spring Dependency injection, Spring Security, Spring Web Flow with Spring MVC. Used spring's dependency injection for injecting entity manager and managed beans into spring beans.  • Working extensively with Hibernate Query Language (HQL) to store and retrieve the data from oracle database. Developed Enterprise JavaBeans (EJB 3.0) for implementing application's business rules and policies.  • Familiarity with Service-oriented architecture (SOA) by developing and consuming Restful web services based on JAX-RS and Jersey.  • Also involved in back-end development using Node.js, used NPM for package management.  • Created back-end services/ API using Express.js, which was used to query MongoDB.  • Used Business Process and Decision Management Design using JBoss JBPM and JBoss Drools Rules Engine.  • Involved in designing and development of web interface using JSP, Servlets, and JavaScript.  • Tested each application with using validators and handled multiple modules simultaneously to achieve the application.    Environment: Spring 3.1, J2EE 1.7, Spring JDBCTemplate, Spring Batch, AJAX, XML, CSS, CSS3, HTML5, JavaScript, Oracle 10g/11i, Maven 3.0.3, MYSQL 6.1, jQuery, JUnit, REST, AngularJS. STS 3.5.1(eclipse), Core Java, JSP, Action Components, Tomcat Web Server. Java Developer GGK Technologies June 2011 to December 2012 Responsibilities:  • Developed multiple user tools with core Java and DB2 using eclipse IDE.  • Implemented multiple design patterns like factory, façade, etc.  • Extensive code reviews on adherence to design and performance.  • Extensive real-time production support.  • Wrote HQL queries as part of development.  • Designed and implemented XML parsing for XML order conformations.  • Wrote batch jobs and was involved in performance tuning of complex queries.  • Monitored the error logs and fixed the problems.  • Developed the different components of the application such as JSP, Servlets, DAO and Used SubVersion (SVN) for version control.  • Involved in the Development of Spring Framework Controllers. Developed Controller for the request, response paradigm by Spring Controllers using Spring-MVC.  • Developed additional UI Components and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX (JQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience.  • Built ANT scripts for automated deployment and for the build operation of the entire application.  • Developed web pages using HTML5/CSS and JavaScript, Angular JS  • Developed many JSP pages, used Dojo in JavaScript Library, jQuery UI for client-side validation.    Environment: Core Java, SQL (DB2), Design Patterns, Hibernate, DOJO 1.5, Eclipse IDE, JIRA Education Bachelor's Skills Html5 (8 years), Java (8 years), Javascript (8 years), Model view controller (8 years), Model-view-controller (8 years), React, Nodejs, Jquery, Angular, AWS, C#, PHP, Node, NET