Sr.Android Application Developer Sr.Android Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr.Android Application Developer - Time Warner Cable Dallas, TX • Over 9+ years of experience in programming in the field of System Analysis, Design, Web development, Database technologies, Java and J2EE technologies.  • Worked on projects using different Android API like Google Maps, WebView, SQLite.  • Experience in working with third party libraries like Firebase, Google ZXing, Dagger, Retrofit, Realm, Volley, ButterKnife, OkHTTP, Picasso, and Glide.  • Experience with source code control management like GIT.  • Hands on experience with parsing JSON data.  • Experience in debugging using Logcat, DDMS and ADB tools.  • Experience in developing -apps using TDD.  • Experience in software development, integration, deployment, testing and maintenance of Client-Server, Web-based applications using Java, J2EE Technologies.  • Expertise in Android application development.  • Good understanding in End user requirement analysis, Android OS, interactive application development and full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Extensive knowledge of Java, Android SDK, Javascript, JAVA 7/8, HTML/CSS, REST API, XML.  • Worked on Objective-C, Swift, xCode IDE, Cocoa Touch Framework, iOS SDK  • Experience in working with various design patterns like MVP, MVC, Singleton, Builder, Factory, Adapter and View holder.  • Good understanding in Android OS, interactive application development and memory management.  • Experience with Android components such as Activities, Fragments, Intents, Services, Broadcast Receivers, Notifications, Menu Designs and Content Providers.  • Experience working with SQLite Database, Shared Preference, Internal Storage, External Storage for Storing.  • Hands on experience in working with Android API's starting from Honeycomb (API level 11) to Oreo (API level 27).  • Expertise in using the proper components like Services, Broadcast Receivers and Content Providers  • Expertise in developing the UI Layouts, UI controls, Event Handling, and Custom Components with the knowledge of Material Design concepts using HTML and CSS.  • Well versed with the Android advanced concepts like Notifications, Location based services, Google Cloud Messaging and Google services.  • Good knowledge on Android architecture, Device drivers, IPC mechanism, Memory management and Process management.  • Architects, Design and implements embedded application software and application interface & middleware for Linux and/or Android in cross-platform development environment.  • Very good experience in debugging the failures by analyzing the Logcat, Debug messages, Android monitors, Hierarchy viewer and ADB, Systrace and Event logs.  • Very good experience in developing Use Case Model, Use Case Diagrams, and Class Diagrams, sequence diagrams using Rational Rose  • Expertise in Web Services (SOAP, RESTful), JSON, XML parsing, Eclipse IDE, SQLite database, ADT plug-in and AVD Manager.  • Experience in building source code, troubleshooting issues, communicating and resolving related issues occurring during the phases of the project.  • Hands on experience in Android Support Library to offer backward compatibility.  • Worked with UX Designers, Architects and Developers to build enterprise mobile solutions.  • Experience with Framework customization, porting and Application development.  • Experience in porting applications to multiple Android OS versions and multiple form factor-based devices like Handsets, Tablets and Android based hardware's.  • Experience in using Android Studio, Java, Android SDK, Native Android Development and ADT Plug-in.  • Adopted Agile Methodology using pair programming approach to ensure high quality code.  • Expertise in Object Oriented Programming languages like Objective-C, C++, Swift, C#.  • Good mobile and web design skills using Activities (android), HTML 5, Java Script, AJAX and XML.  • Experience in playing & recording live stream or Video on demand media content using Media player, Media recorder, Video views and Surface Views.  • Experience in Object Oriented Design (OOD), analysis (OOA), modeling (OOM) based on UML.  • Worked extensively in developing mobile-based and advanced web-based applications using Java, Servlets, JSP, Struts, spring, Hibernate, JDBC, UML, HTML, XHTML, JavaScript, JDBC, and Oracle.  • knowledge about Core Frameworks like, Map Kit (Customization for Map, Annotation), Core Object, Core Services, Core Graphics, Core Animation, UIKit & MVC methodologies.  • Mastering Reactive Android programming with Rx Java by adding core dependencies.  • Good Development and working knowledge of Struts, Design Patterns (MVC, MVVM, MVP). Work Experience Sr.Android Application Developer Time Warner Cable September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirement analysis, Preparing Functional Specifications and Technical specifications according to the requirements.  • Develop data flow models to define interdependencies between other technologies / applications by Work Closely with application Architect.  • Developed this application using MVP design pattern  • Coordinated with UI team members to get the desired screen layouts  • Developed the activities and UI components  • Developed user-friendly user-interfaces using CardViews, Dialogs, Different Layouts, Buttons visibility, Edit texts, as per requirements  • Used Retrofit web services and Gson parsers with secured data interchange  • I am the only Android developer while developing this application  • Involved in the full life cycle of this project including planning, W, development and testing  • Collaborated with web services team to implement the backend support  • Provided assistance and feedback on login design and implementation  • Created test cases and test data for testing the application  • Created new UI screens for the native application, worked with the UI team to display the appropriate icon and tested the functionality of the screens  • Updated layouts using new and existing wireframes.  • Developed the activities and UI layers with graphics, Listviews, etc.  • Used RESTful web services and JSON parsers with secured data interchange.  • Developed user-friendly user-interfaces using Menu, Dialogs, Different Layouts, Buttons, Edittext, List View and Scroll View as per client need.  • Designed and developed the chat/messaging feature to interact with NetApp support.  • Implemented Notification Manager to display callback information on the notification bar.  • Implemented the required GUI by making modifications to the xml files.  • Worked in an agile based environment.  • Involved in the full life cycle of this project including planning, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Collaborated with web services team to implement the backend support.  • Provided assistance and feedback on login design and implementation.  • Created test cases and test data for testing the application.  • Created new UI screens for the native application and worked with the UI team to display the appropriate icon and tested the functionality of the screens.  • Tested the application on different android target devices and debugged the issues that were found.  • Successfully distributed the app on the Google Play store and supported the app for different releases of Android OS.  Environment: Android SDK (4.1 to 6.0), Java 7, Android Studio 1.5, MVP, Butter Knife, Retrofit, Github, JSON, Agile Methodology. Sr. Android Application Developer Riccione Resources, Inc - Dallas, TX November 2016 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  • Formulated handset specific user interface (UI) for Android mobile phones, tablets and PC's.  • Worked with Layouts, Menus and Action Bars and several other User Interface (UI) components.  • Object Oriented Programming (OOPS) Concepts and Unified Modeling Language (UML) were immensely used for modeling.  • Developed the UI for the application using edit boxes, 9-patch images, date picker, time picker, dialog boxes, alert boxes and spinners using different layouts that are available.  • For making existing applications more user-friendly we researched on Android application acceptance and feedback from the application users.  • Made use of Retrofit library for downloading asynchronous data and convert those JSON or XML responses to Plain Old Java Objects (POJO).  • We accessed external databases for our application by using JSON for web service calls.  • Enabled speedy reviews and first mover advantages by using Oozie to automate data loading into the Hadoop Distributed File System and PIG to pre-process the data.  • Designed and implemented screens for Sam's Club Backroom Inventory app which helps the Club associates to work on the inventory and finalize the items.  • Integrated EventBus for better communication between Activities, Fragments, Threads, Services, etc. Less code, better quality.  • Retrofit Integration for Web Services integration and GSON for parsing JSON Response to POJO objects.  • Integrated this application with Firebase Cloud Messaging for Push Notifications.  • Hands on experience in developing Android Enterprise Applications for mobiles and tablets using Android SDK Tools.  • Very Good understanding of Android back-end and UI guidelines.  • Used MVP pattern for designing the application using Android Studio and Android SDK.  • Created views for Date &Time pickers, image buttons and created layouts Image View and Scroll Views.  • Worked with the Android SDK, and implemented Android Bluetooth and Location Connectivity components.  • Worked on Intent Service to generate the PUSH Notifications.  • Worked on Location Manager to get the Nearby airports for Booking Flight tickets.  • Used Material design using Card View, Recycler View and classic principles of good design with innovation.  • Involved in Requirement gathering, writing design specification document and identified the appropriate design pattern to develop the application  • Implemented JIRA issue collector and various modules by using JSF, PrimeFaces, and EJB.  • Implemented eSubmission application for processing of online Adobe PDF documents from ESG gateway to MoveIt to XML data export by using AEM forms 6.3 on OSGi. The PDF documents Metadata are stored in DB and documents/ attachment files are uploaded in Documentum.  • Installation and Deployment of Adobe LiveCycle ES2 and AEM forms 6.2 on OSGi.  • Build and deployed custom application package for XML data export and applying reader extension on Adobe PDF for AEM forms 6.2 on OSGi.  • Upgraded Adobe PDF document for AEM form 6.2 by using Adobe LiveCycle Designer ES2.  • Developed MapReduce programs to parse the raw data, populate staging tables and store the refined data in partitioned tables in the EDW.  • Created Hive queries that helped market analysts spot emerging trends by comparing fresh data with EDW reference tables and historical metrics.  Environment: Java 7, Oracle 11g, XML, EJB, JSP, JMS, Websphere v7.0, Apache Tomcat 7.0, Web Services, Windows. Android Application Developer Euronet Worldwide, Inc - Leawood, KS February 2014 to October 2016 Responsibilities:  • Implementing bug fixes for the password authentication protocol on the Wi-Fi remote.  • Worked in tandem with both the iOS team and QA to add new default scene names and images to the remote and phone application.  • Used multi-threaded development using Reactive-X by implementing Rx Java and Retrofit.  • Corrected UI bugs throughout the phone application in multiple services as mentioned in project description.  • This is a kind of hybrid application, I used the web view to build this application with a responsive web application  • Used java bridge to send callbacks to the web application from JavaScript  • Implemented the barcode scanning feature in this application. This scanned data is sent back to the web application using callback handlers  • Integrated this application with Firebase Cloud Messaging  • Involved in the full life cycle of this project including planning, design, development and testing  • Used content resolver to get the login response from the Login Application and sent the response to UI using callback handlers  • Tested the application thoroughly on the target devices from Zebra vendor and debugged the issues that were found  • Worked with different type of Hardware products of Savant own production devices like Wally, Wi-Fi remote, Door Entry and Thermostat for Pool & Spa these custom Devices are used for Home Automation.  • Experience designing robust, extensible and customizable mobile application code and framework.  • Migrating parts of the project to Kotlin from Java and implementing new features in kotlin.  • Worked closely with design team to create new features in android and iOS design guidelines and UX specification.  • mplementing Broadcast Receivers for Android.  • Key resource for layout and UI work utilizing xml, Views, Webview, ListView, Menu Item, Activities, Fragments, Frame, Handler etc.  • Worked on changing the AsyncTask to Loaders as Asynctask will be destroyed during the Orientation change.  • Worked with different Third Party Libraries like Butter Knife, Dagger, Google Cloud Messaging (GCM), Retrofit, Universal Image Loader.  • Worked on Marshmallow run time permissions.  • Worked with Retrofit to make Network Calls.  • Implementing Kotlin language features in combined with special compiler plug-in supporting Android frame work.  • Connecting Savant home automation application with Host by adding services to Blueprint in system application manager and System monitor.  • Recording the saved Espresso Test Recorder and automatically generates a corresponding UI test and run to test the app.  • Improving code quality by staying on top of new technologies and development approaches.  • Developed logic and UI to help users configure which scenes were associated with their keypad buttons.  Environment: Android Studio, GitHub, JSON, RESTful, Photoshop Android Application Developer Kitestring Technical Services - Bentonville, AR July 2011 to January 2014 Responsibilities:  • Analyzed existing AMS application and prepared report of showstoppers to migrate in to JBOSSEWS  • Developed application framework using struts with design principles of the J2EE using Business Delegate, Service Locator, Session Façade and DAO patterns and developed Stateless Session Bean to Achieve Session Façade Design Pattern.  • Used Eclipse IDE for code development along with Visual Source Safe (VSS) for managing the code.  • Developed Stored Procedures and triggers using PL/SQL to calculate and update the tables to implement business logic.  • Designed and developed the application using Agile methodology using Scrum.  • Designed UML diagrams using UML and Rational Rose.  • Actively involved in peer code review.  • Developed AJAX scripting to process server side JSP scripting.  • Usage of version control repository SVN (Subversion), JIRA/ Quality Center for ticketing.  • Involved in task prioritizing, estimation and distribution across the team  • Developed Project Status Metrics for weekly evaluation of Project Status and analyzed the impact of the open issues and Change Request on the Project Plan.  • Identified and documented Issues, Risks and Gaps and their descriptions and impact, and provided recommendations and alternatives. Analyzed the Gaps for Training purposes  • Coordination with testing team adhering to Agile methodology.  • Designed and Developed total Skelton of VIN Damage Update process module and Developed spring injections, Aspects for logging, transactions and Hibernate mapping configurations.  • Development and testing of screens using JSP, J2EE with Struts Framework.  • Designed and developed JSP pages using Struts framework to implement J2EE design patterns  • Developed JSP as the view, Servlets as Controller as model in the Struts Framework.  • Developed Struts Action Classes, Action Forms and performed Action mapping using Struts framework and performed data validation in Form beans and Action Classes.  • Developed application framework using struts with design principles of the J2EE using Business Delegate, Service Locator, Session Façade and DAO patterns and developed Stateless Session Bean to Achieve Session Façade Design Pattern.  • Used Eclipse IDE for code development along with Visual Source Safe (VSS) for managing the code.  • Developed Stored Procedures and triggers using PL/SQL to calculate and update the tables to implement business logic.  • Migrated Waybill count module from CFM, Teradata to J2ee with oracle  Environment: Android SDK 3.2, 4.1, SQLite 3.8, IcePick, ZXing, GCM, JUnit, Google Play Services, MapsV3, JIRA, REST, SCRUM, Hugo, Eclipse IDE 3.5, Android API's, JDK 1.6, XML, JSON, HTML, CSS, GPS service, Log cat, Windows 7. Java Developer Parallon Technology Solutions - Nashville, TN March 2010 to June 2011 Responsibilities:  • Analyzed the project features, designed the application architecture and developed SQLite database, implemented server back end.  • Designed UI including themes, icons, colors and backgrounds using Photoshop's.  • Implemented auto-sync feature to allow users to use the app completely offline and to synchronize the app data with the cloud when the network becomes available.  • Performed CRR Application migration from JBOSS 4.5 to 6 versions.  • Developed JSP as the view, Servlets as Controller as model in the Spring Framework.  • Effective Co-ordination with counterpart development teams to have transparency over functionalities being developed when more than one team is working.  • Guide and mentor team members from technical perspective along with complete understanding of functional requirements by providing trainings if required.  • Conducting Code Review's to review performance/Process improvements and coding standards during construction.  • Well acquainted with Toll Gate process and Compliance of GE and responsible for all the pre and production activities adhering to client processes  • Received Pat on Back (POB) for the efforts as a Module Lead.  • Participated in designing the system architecture.  • Participated in complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for proper analysis, development, testing, deployment and enhancement of the code.  • Used the SQLite database for storing the wide verities of Storage sub-systems and various flavors of hardware platform products repository.  • Participated in constructing automated unit testing, performing usability testing on UI, ad hoc testing based on test and fault models Integrated Support Library to make the app compatible from API 1.6 up to 4.0.4  • Use Cases, System Features, Data Flow Diagram, Class Diagram, Functional and Non-Functional Requirements.  • Provided assistance and feedback on login design and implementation.  • Integrated with web service and mobile device with different Android versions to share information with each other  • Developed App screens and its workflow using Activity and Fragments, which has views such as List View and Scroll View.  • Used ADB, logcat, DDMS for Debugging the failures.  • Debugged and tested the application on different android devices.  • Worked in an agile based environment.  • Design screens using MVC pattern for the application with Android Studio IDE.  • Successfully distributed the app on the Google Play store and supported the app for different releases of Android OS.  Environment: Android Studio, Android DDMS, ADB Command, Java web service, SQLite Education Bachelor's Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Android OS Android 1.5 to Android 6.0 (Gingerbread, Honey comb, Ice cream sandwich, Jellybean, Kit Kat, Lollipop and Marshmallow).  Languages Core Java, J2EE, JDBC, JSP (JDK 1.5-1.7), C, J Query.  Scripting Language JavaScript  Web Designing HTML5, CSS3, XML, UML, WebLogic  IDE IntelliJ, NetBeans, Eclipse IDE, Android Studio  Web/Application Servers Tomcat , IBM Web Sphere  Framework Struts, Hibernate, spring, JUnit, AJAX  Version Control Tools CVS, SVN,GIT  Databases SQLite, MySQL, Oracle 9i/10g/11g, DB2