Sr Java/J2EE Developer Sr <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Java/J2EE Developer - Subaru, New Jersey • Over 6+ years of experience in SDLC, Object oriented analysis/design and development, Model View Controller, JAVA and J2EE (Servlets, JSPs, JNDI, Java Beans, EJB and JDBC).  • Experience in integrating the internal security model into new projects with Spring Batch, Spring Micro services and Spring Boot.  • Expertise in frontend technologies such as HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, JSP, JSF, JMS, AJAX, JSTL, specification, XML (SAX, DOM), XSL and JSON.  • Good experience in writing Camel Routs and defining various EIP's using Apache Camel, like Message routers, Switches, Message Endpoints, Dead letter channel, content based routers, and aggregators.  • Experience in design and implementation using different RDBMS like Microsoft SQL Server 2008, Oracle, MySQL and DB2.  • Experience with RDBMS concepts like Functions, Triggers, Stored Procedures, DDL, DML SQL queries and PL/SQL programming.  • Having hands on experience in deploying web and JEE enterprise applications in Tomcat Server, Web Logic, Web Sphere, JBoss, Glassfish.  • Experience in SOAP based Web Services, REST Web Services, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, JAXB, SOA, AJAX, RMI, JNDI and MVC.  • Implemented AWS solutions using EC2, S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Dynamo DB, Auto-scaling groups.  • Experience in importing and exporting data from various sources into HDFS using Sqoop. kafka broker, Spark Streaming and Flume.  • Hands on experience with version control systems like CVS, SVN, CLEARCASE and GIT for providing common platform for all developers.  • Experience in developing web application using test driven methodologies (TDD) and Junit as a testing framework.  • Worked on the SPRING framework like SPRING IOC and SPRING DAO, JDBC Templates, Transactions, Security, AOP, MVC, ORM etc.  • Proficient in using Object Oriented Programming Analysis and Design (OOAD) principles, UML and Rational Rose and Object Oriented Design Patterns in building high performance applications.  • Hands on experience with various Applications servers and Web servers (IBM Web Sphere Application Server, WebLogic, JBoss, and Tomcat).  • Hand on Experience with Spring Boots  • Design and implementation of Test Environment Framework based on Amazon Web Service (AWS).  • Experience on Hibernate, JMS, Oracle and DB2.  • Experienced in developing persistence layer using O/R-Mapping tools like Hibernate.  • Extensively worked on Hibernate Criteria API to access the Data.  • Experience with major databases such as DB2, Oracle, MYSQL and MS SQL Server.  • Expertise in spring based micro services, and enabled discovery using Netflix eureka server Experience in developed logging and standard mechanism based on Log4j and SLF4j.  • Experience on Providing Junit test cases, Test suits using Junit frame work.  • Experience on Servers WebSphere, WebLogic and Tomcat.  • Experience on Control versioning systems like SVN, PVCS ,GIT and Bitbucket.  • Extensively worked on Jira to creating tickets, assigning and communication through Jira.  • Experience on using IDEs RAD, Eclipse and good exposure to IntelliJ and NetBeans.  • Experienced in working with different operating systems Windows, UNIX & LINUX.  • Quick learner, have ability to grasp new technologies quickly and to correctly apply new tools to build applications.  • Experience with message queues such as RabbitMQ, Kafka.  • Strong experience of developing data models using Hibernate POJO's and configuring Hibernate persistence layer and mapping Java classes with database and using Hibernate query language (HQL). Experience in using Hibernate OGM for NoSQL databases.  • Worked in Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) using Unified Modeling Language (UML) and Rational Unified Process (RUP) using Rational Rose, Enterprise Architect and MS Visio.  • Expertise in Microservices related frameworks include Ribbon for Client-Side Load Balancer, Eureka for Service Discovery and Zuul proxy for Gateway API.  • Created Web Services using Apache AXIS, WSDL, UDDI, SOAP and JAX-RPC.  • Experience on CI (Continues Integrations) and CD (Continues Deployment) methodologies using Jenkins.  • Good hands-on experience in Shell Scripting.  • Expertise in software design patterns/frameworks J2EE Design Patterns (MVC, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Data Transfer Objects and Data Access objects) and GOF Design Patterns (Abstract Factory, Factory Method, Singleton, Session Factory, Template Method, Strategy Pattern)  • Worked on XML technologies with JAXB and JAXP, XSD, SAX, DOM parsers  • Have experience in Software Development Processes like SDLC, Waterfall, Agile, SCRUM, RAD, RUP.  • Developing REST FUL web services using Spring boot, Spring REST FUL template, JPA, Cloud Foundary.  • Experience in working with different operating systems Windows, UNIX and LINUX.  • Extensively implemented J2EE design patterns such as MVC, Service Locator, Factory Pattern, Session Facade, Singleton, Service Factory.  • Excellent written and verbal communication skills, Analytical, Problem Solving skills, strict attention to detail and ability to work independently, work within a team environment. Work Experience Sr Java/J2EE Developer Subaru, New Jersey March 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed new GUI widgets in JavaScript, HTML, and CSS.  • Developer new custom JSP tags to generate corporate standard markup, and server-side framework components using Java, Servlets, JSP & Struts  • Deployed applications on AWS by using Elastic Beanstalk.  • Integrated Hibernate with Spring by coding a Spring Configuration file.  • Used AngularJS http service to consume REST ful services.  • Created documentation and training materials for framework users and developers including Performance optimization and MVC techniques.  • Implemented Auto Complete/Auto Suggest functionality using Ajax, JQuery, Web Service call and JSON.  • Used GWT and Amazon AWS (EC2/S3/EBS) for prototyping and subsequent evaluation.  • Responsible for maintaining and expanding our AWS infrastructure using AWS (EC2/EBS).  • Designed and implemented backend and middle tier layer using Spring Boot technology  • Worked on sample code application in five different languages like nodes, java , python ,ruby and. Net and did integration test in jenkins , bamboo and deployed that in docker.  • Developed REST ful Web Services using Spring Boot.  • Implementing the template-based categorization of presentation content using Model-1 architecture and implement it using jQuery, Knockout.js, JSP and Spring MVC and Spring Boot.  • Using JavaScript for custom client-side validation.  • Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud Micro Services and develop spring based application with very less configuration.  • Developing server-side services using Core Java concepts.  • Created Jenkins jobs and wrote Pipeline scripts for continuous integration and build automation.  • Secured the application by authenticating against LDAP and authorizing the user based on their roles using Spring security dependency.  • Design and develop presentation tier components such as commands, actions, JSPs, domain and domain access objects using Agile Processes/XP and best practices.  • Using Spring's JAXB implementation for marshalling of an object into an XML string.  • Created REST ful API utilizing Spring REST ful Controllers.    Environment: JAVA/J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JQuery, AWS, Bootstrap, Servlets, Angular 2,4, JSF, JavaScript, XML, XSLT, CXF, XPATH, REST , JAX-RS, JAX-WS, JMS, Maven, Jenkins, spring boot, Hibernate, Spring JUnit, Mockito, GIT, Jira, EMMA, IntelliJ. Java/Bigdata Developer Vanguard - Malvern, PA November 2016 to February 2018 Responsibilities:  • Developed GUI using JavaScript, HTML/HTML5, DOM, XHTML, Ajax, CSS3 and JQuery in ongoing projects.  • Involved in developing Front End Programming for Web applications.  • Worked on J2SE technologies like Core Java (Collections, Garbage collection, Threads and Exception Handling) and worked on J2EE like JDBC and Spring.  • Implemented the service layer using spring with transaction and logging interceptors. Used spring framework for middle tier and spring-hibernate for data access.  • Extensively used Spring MVC architecture for the application development.  • Used client side scripting languages such as JavaScript and JQuery.  • Developed securing the application using form-based authentication using HTML, JavaScript, JQuery and CSS.  • Used Java Mailing or Messaging Service (JMS) API's for mailing detailed notifications depending upon the success and failure once the backend process is complete and also for mailing administrator of any system related problems.  • Designed and developed JSP pages using Spring MVC 3.0 framework.  • Used Angular JS framework for building web-apps and is highly efficient with PHP framework as Well as using REST ful services.  • Implemented XML parsing and JSON parsing for data handling on different application.  • Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, Node.JS, ExtJS, ReactJS, AngularJS, knockout JS, Wire-framing, HTML5.  • Proficient in using ReactJs for creating reusable components along with sliders, charts, grids and handling events and DOM objects.  • Developed application code to interact with REST ful Web APIs, Evaluate JSON from the server and making AJAX requests and handling JSON objects.  • Involved in converting Hive/SQL queries into Spark transformations using Spark RDDs, Python and Scala.  • Used Hive to do transformations, joins, filter and some pre-aggregations after storing the data to HDFS.  • Scheduled builds to support development needs using Jenkins, Git, and JUnit.  • Implemented advanced procedures like text analytics and processing using the in-memory computing capabilities like Apache Spark written in Scala  • Developed Single page application and structured the JavaScript code using AngularJS.  • Worked on JAXB for XML message binding.  • Written transformations and actions on data frames, used Spark SQL on data frames to access hive tables into spark for faster processing of data  • Wrote JUnit test cases for unit, integration, and functional tests, run automatically by Jenkins in the builds triggered by each push to Git.  • Used JQUERY function for various UI Screens in web applications. Developed application based on MVC architecture.  • Working on cross-browser issues related to the front end, which is created using AngularJS, CSS, and HTML5  • Experience in designing and developing tables in HBase and storing aggregated data from Hive Table.  • Involvement in creating custom UDFs for Pig and Hive to consolidate strategies and usefulness of Java into Pig Latin and HQL (HiveQL).  • Created various hive external tables, staging tables and joined the tables as per the requirement. Implemented static Partitioning, Dynamic partitioning and Bucketing in Hive using internal and external table  • Developed dynamic UI using AngularJS.  • Used Selectors in JQuery for updating content on DOM nodes.  • Improving web pages with CSS3 and developed JavaScript for user interfaces.  • Used IDES like Eclipse for development and used maven to build and deploy the projects.  • Involved in the JMS Connection Pool and the implementation of publish and subscribe using Spring JMS.  • Set up Jenkins server and build jobs to provide continuous automated builds based on polling the Git source control system.  • Created UML diagrams using Rational rose.  • Wrote SQL queries and stored procedures.  • Worked with SQL developer to interact with Oracle tables.  • Used tortoise SVN for version control.  • Involved in writing the associations for the query in mapping XML files in Hibernate  • Worked in an Agile environment delivering output in sprints and participating in scrums    Environment: JDK 1.7, JMS, Linux, Spring 3.2, Web services(REST ), JAXB, Hive, spark, Maven, Git, TDD(Test-driven development),pig, Jenkins, Junit, AngularJS, SAX ,DOM, JAXB, Singleton Design pattern, Tortoise SVN, Eclipse,AJAX,HTML5, CSS3 Agile, Oracle SQL Developer, Tomcat, Hibernate. Software Developer Icreon - New York, NY September 2015 to October 2016 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed application using JSP, AngularJS, Java Script, JQuery, HTML, CSS, JSON, Spring MVC Framework and Hibernate to handle the workflow of the application with Oracle as the back-end.  • Designed and developed Micro Web services using spring Boot for customer-based applications. Used AngularJS to connect with backend micro-services to store, retrieve data to show to front-end.  • Designed and developed browser side MVC, custom directives using AngularJS. Developed services, factory, controller, compile using AngularJS  • Implemented module to convert XML to Java, Java to XML using JAXB bindings, JDOM and SAX parsers.  • Designed and developed REST ful web service API. Implemented front-end UI using AngularJS, HTML5 and CSS3.  • Strong knowledge and hands on experience in documenting and designing REST API's using RAML.  • Developed & Implemented OAuth2 functionality with Spring Security to secure the REST services/REST API for authentication & authorization and generate & validate the tokens for REST clients to protect the REST services.  • Experience in performing analytics in hive with Hive queries, Views, Partitioning, Bucketing using HiveQL  • Involved in converting Hive/SQL queries into Spark transformations using Spark RDD, Scala and Python.  • Experience in creating tables, dropping and altering at run time without blocking updates and queries using HBase and Hive.  • Involved in making Hive tables, stacking information, composing hive inquiries, producing segments and basins for enhancement.  • Experienced in troubleshooting errors in HBase Shell/API, Hive.  • Implemented Java Web Services based on SOA architecture with SOAP and WSDL.  • Implemented SOAP messages for information exchange for Web Services.  • Developed the application using Core Java, Collections, Multithreading and Serialization.  • Java Message Service (JMS) API was used to relate messages between different resources the project.  • Designed and developed the web application using Spring security, Spring-ORM module to integrate with Hibernate and Spring-JMS module to produce and consume messages.  • In depth understanding of Object Oriented Programming and skilled in developing automated test scripts in Selenium.  • Created automation framework and test scripts using Selenium WebDriver for multiple platforms and browsers testing.  • Designed and implemented application using Maven, Tortoise SVN, WebSphere application server.  • Implemented unit testing, Box testing, Black Box testing and Regression testing and logging using Log4j framework.  • Utilized JIRA to list tasks on the ticket system and for tracking the issues.  • Developed Selenium WebDriver automation scripts using Java covering all requirements for enhancements.  • Used Firebug to identify the Object's id, Name, XPath, link in the application    Environment: Java1.6, J2EE, Spring, spring boot, Hibernate, BigData, MySQL, DOM, JMS, MDB, REST ful, SOAP, Micro web services, XML, XSD, SVN, WebSphere, Spring Tool Suite, Maven, HTML5, CSS3, JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, Ajax, JSF, UML, JSON, Hbase, Hive, Windows, Log4j, JIRA, Selenium WebDriver, Test NG, Agile Scrum. Associate Software Engineer Extreme IT Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2013 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for the overall layout design (Table-less), color scheme of the web site using HTML5, XHTML and CSS3 and Responsible for creating detailed wire frames and process flows.  • Presentation tier developed using Struts, writing Action Classes, Form Bean Classes and configure the application using Struts Configuration file.  • Developed front end with JSP, Struts Tag libraries, JSTL and JavaBeans.  • Used struts framework for layout management.  • Used Stateless Session Enterprise Java Beans (EJB) to encapsulate the business logic.  • Created and deployed new features in order to sustain and amend existing applications.  • Converted the mock-ups into hand-written HTML4/5, CSS (2/3), XHTML, JavaScript, JQuery and JSON.  • Developed cross-browser/platform HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to match design specs for complex page layouts while adhering to code standards.  • Provided graphic and artistic support for web enhancement and new creative initiatives.  • Implemented JQuery UI widgets like drag, drop, accordion, sort, etc.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using DHTML, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Designed and implemented Business Delegate, Session Facade and DTO Design Patterns.  • Used XML Web Services using SOAP to transfer information to the supply chain and domain expertise Monitoring Systems.  • Locator, Data Transfer Object (DTO) and Data Access Object (DAO), Singleton, Factory.  • Involved in writing EJBs (Stateless Session Beans) and Web Services for building the middleware distributed components and deployed them on application servers.  • Implemented the Hibernate framework (ORM) to interact with database.  • Developed client side validation code using JavaScript and JQuery.  • Responsible to manipulate HTML, CSS in JQuery as well as making the pages dynamic using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Extended CSS as needed to accommodate new data and display types.  • Developed IFRAME element to fetch and display the external pages that contains JavaScript/CSS code that runs when fetched via Ajax, the page is from an outside domain.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JSF, Spring, Hibernate, EJB, HTML4/5, CSS2/3, JavaScript, JQuery, JQuery UI, AJAX, JSON, Usability Testing. Skills ECLIPSE, EJB, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE