Driver Driver Actively looking to apply my extensive areas of experience to a collaborative company. Omaha, NE Detail-oriented recent graduate actively seeking a position to contribute immediate value to a  friendly and productive company. Well-versed in utilizing Microsoft Office, Excel, and Outlook  software. Can learn new skills with ease and efficiency. Aiming to apply a love of numbers and  Excel sheets to perpetuate the company’s mission and assist with exceeding corporate goals. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Driver Marco's Pizza - Omaha, NE February 2019 to Present • Delivered orders to customer promptly and professionally.  • Handled cash, credit, debit.  • Trained new drivers.  • Special Note: Received commendations for researching, and reporting an error in tip reporting in the payroll system. Systems Administrator AIRMETHODS - Omaha, NE December 2018 to January 2019 • Researched reported issue/bugs  • Reported findings to Flight Vector for review.  • Collaborated with the comm center on status of updates/fixes.  • Utilized Excel and SQL to maintain reports.  Business Intelligence Analyst Mutual of Omaha - Omaha, NE July 2018 to September 2018 • Self-taught Tableau to graph data.  • Utilized Excel and SQL to maintain reports.  Java Developer Werner Enterprises - Omaha, NE December 2017 to July 2018 • Coded tasks in Java, SQL, and Cold Fusion.  • Utilized Notepad++ and Excel to compare data.  Java Developer Intern Union Pacific - Omaha, NE February 2014 to December 2017 • Collaborated with the IT team for daily tasks.  • Self-taught required programs and languages, SQL, Agile, Html, etc.  • Compared Excel files for completion and accuracy.  Java Developer Northrop Grumman - Omaha, NE June 2017 to September 2017 • Developed JUnit tests for projects.  • Self-taught Python for future tasks Data Analyst Intern Northrop Grumman - Omaha, NE January 2017 to May 2017 • Self-taught OWL ontologies program.  • Maintained Owl ontologies, graphs that show relationships between data values.  Front Cashier Walgreens - Omaha, NE September 2011 to January 2014 • Greeted and assisted customers promptly.  • Handled cash, credit, debit, and personal checks.  • Kept area clean, organized, and stocked.  • Trained new cashiers. Education Bachelor's in Majors: Computer Science, Mathematics Minor: Creative Writing University of Nebraska at Omaha - Omaha, NE August 2013 to May 2017 Skills Microsoft Office Products (8 years), Strong Work Ethic, Effective Communication, Attention to Detail, Fast Learner, Basic Math (10+ years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/jenni-svoboda-530b1212b/ Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Assessments Project Management Skills: Budgeting — Highly Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to manage project budgets by appropriately allocating and monitoring financial resources. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/v-9tzuzyef9ala7m Project Management Skills: Time Management — Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to prioritize and allocate time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/gvsv0afkg86vaikg Problem Solving — Familiar January 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/o4h6d01b17cnhp6w Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.