Sr. Java Developer Sr.<span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Estes Express Richmond, VA • Over 10 years of professional experience in developing web, client/server applications using object-oriented design and development.  • Development experience on Web logic, Web Sphere, JBoss, and Apache Tomcat.  • Expertise in the areas of Product Development and Distributed application development in J2EE architecture and spring implementation using MVC.  • Expertise in using various Configuration Management tools like GIT, CVS, Clear Case and SVN.  • Good knowledge in advanced Java language concepts like Multithreading and Serialization.  • Excellent team player with good management, organizational, communication, interpersonal and analytical skills.  • Well versed with complete SDLC i.e. System study, Requirement gathering, Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Implementation and Application support.  • Thorough knowledge in core Java concepts like OOP, Java, JDBC, JMS, JSP, Servlets, XML and Java Beans.  • Extensive experience in working on IDEs like Eclipse, MyEclipse, NetBeans and IntelliJ.  • Experienced in developing MVC architecture using Hibernate Framework and Spring Framework.  • Experience on OOP (Objective Oriented Programming) like Inheritance, polymorphism,  • Abstraction and Encapsulation.  • Knowledge of application development for Cloud platforms using technologies like Java/J2EE, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Microservices. Experience in Microservices and Spring Boot application development.  • Experienced in developing REST and SOAP Web Services.  • Experience in RDBMS including Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL, and DB2.  • Sound Knowledge in Design Patterns like Singleton, Session Facade, Factory Method and Data Access Object (DAO) pattern.  • Good experience with Source code management collaboration tools GIT, SVN, Github, Bitbucket, Gitlab, AWS-Code commit.  • Exceptionally well organized, strong work ethnic and a willingness to work hard to achieve employer's confidence and objective.  • Quick learner with the ability to work in a fast-paced environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Estes Express - Richmond, VA September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked, redesigned and developed the payment system using the ACH and credit card to meet the PCI compliance.  • Developed the application using CDI and JSF implementing controller and backend service classes.  • Designed, developed, implemented and supported the finance application, based on the business requirements.  • Created multiple reusable components and services using Angular 2 built-in and custom directives.  • Used Angular 2 and Node.JS to structure JavaScript code in an MVC (Model, View, and Controller).  • Worked with JMS API service to establish messaging between the applications.  • Modernized the old JSP servlet-based application to be attuned with the latest versions and technologies.  • Developed server-side application to interact with database using Spring Boot and Hibernate.  • Developed API for using AWS Lambda to manage the servers and run the code in the MongoDB.  • Worked on modernizing the IBM AS400 application using framework like Spring boot for backend and UI modules using AngularJS, Node.js, JavaScript, TypeScript, jQuery, CSS3 and HTML5.  • Responsible for developing scheduler services for the recurring job.  • Developed the automated unit test cases for the Microservices using Junit, Mockito, and Sonar and deployed them in the Jenkins pipeline.  • Deployed Spring Boot based microservices Docker and Amazon EC2 container using AWS admin console.  • Created the user interface using JSF, XHTML, Prime faces, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Designed and Developed DAOs, DTOs layer to interact with the Oracle Database.  • Developed Web Services using SOAP/REST framework.  • Worked extensively with the SVN for branching, tagging and merging the project.  • Continuous twenty-four-hour support of the application for any production issues and provided with the quick solution.  • Supported the application for regular change requests and enhancements from the business.  • Responsible for testing, debugging, bugs fixing and documentation of the system.  • Deployed and configured the application on WebLogic server.  • Worked on peer to peer code review using collaborator.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Hibernate, Spring, Servlets, Angular 2, Microservices, Spring Boot, AWS, Mongo DB JSP, JSF, XML, XSL, SOAP UI, JDBC, Oracle, HTML, XHTML, JavaScript, RESTful API, jQuery, RPG, Eclipse, JUnit, Log4j, Windows. Sr. Java Developer Wells Fargo - Malvern, PA, US November 2014 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  • Designed business logic with consultations, based on the requirements given by business analysts for the responsible modules.  • Design and Development of service layer (involves developing Controllers and POJOs) using Spring framework.  • Used a Microservices architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST and Spring Boot.  • Implemented data base persistence layer using Hibernate.  • Developed web-based user interface screens using HTML5 and JavaScript.  • Created CSS to get unique look and feel across the related facets.  • Developed custom Web Grid using AngularJS to display data from Oracle Database.  • Wrote SOAP and REST Web Services to bring Data from Database.  • Implemented Spring validation framework to validate the user inputs to Data from Oracle Database Dynamically.  • Development CRUD functionality for various administrative system related tables and product components.  • Performed Backend testing to verify the data integrity by passing SQL Queries.  • Added dependencies to the pom files, used to manage the project using Maven project management tool.  • Developed Application using Eclipse IDE and used GIT Version Control.  • Deployed the application on WebLogic Application Server.  • Implemented JUnit Framework for Unit Testing and Tests Runners.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Oracle, PL/SQL, Eclipse, Hibernate, Spring-MVC, GIT, JUnit, Angular JS, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS, Maven, Web Services (SOAP, REST), WebLogic, Log4j, Windows. Java Developer Fifth Third Bank - Columbus, OH February 2010 to October 2014 Responsibilities:  • Designed business logic with consultations, based on the requirements given by business analysts for the responsible modules.  • Implemented the Spring dependency injection of the Database helper instance to the action objects.  • Implemented front end changes based on spring integrated with Struts along with JSP view and Java code as per requirement.  • Implemented data base persistence layer using Hibernate.  • Developed rich user interface using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX and jQuery.  • Responsible for developing JavaScript functions which calls the service layer using AJAX  • Developed jQuery Templates for rendering the JSON object consumed from the SOAP web services.  • Used CSS to control the page layout, look and feel of WebPages.  • Responsible for branching, tagging and merging the project using SVN.  • Developed API s that are used to communicate with other modules.  • Developed Application using Eclipse IDE and used JUnit for unit testing.  • Responsible for writing queries for Oracle databases.  • Added dependencies to the pom files, used to manage the project using ANT.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, SOAP Web Services, Eclipse, Oracle, PL/SQL, Hibernate, Spring-MVC, JSON, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, ANT, JUnit, WebSphere, Apache Tomcat, SVN, Log4j, Windows. Java Developer Priority Health Michigan - Grand Rapids, MI May 2009 to January 2010 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for requirement analysis and designing the business logic based on the consultations with product owners for small business module.  • Designed and coded Hibernate Plug-In for Spring ORM mapping and implemented  HQLs by creating DAO, which connects to Oracle DB, to persist and retrieve data.  • Used Spring framework for Dependency Injection in Data Access Objects.  • Responsible for developing the Restful Resources using REST framework.  • Configured Hibernate configuration file, developed POJO's and wrote the XML file to map objects to relational database.  • Responsible for writing optimized queries to pull data from MySQL and perform CRUD Operations.  • Developed rich user interface using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and jQuery.  • Created Maven archetypes for generating fully functional REST web services supporting both XML and JSON message transformation.  • Deployed and tested the application on Apache Tomcat server.  • Developed several stored procedures and functions for BOS backup module.  • Responsible for writing unit test cases using JUnit.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Hibernate, Spring, MySQL, JSON, JQuery, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Maven, WebSphere, REST Web services, Apache Tomcat, SVN, JUnit, Log4j, Windows. Education Bachelor's Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring Certifications/Licenses Driver's License