Software Engineer Software Engineer Software Engineer actively looking for job opportunities in Seattle, WA. Seattle, WA Backend Software Engineer in Seattle with over 2 years of work experience and a Bachelor's degree in Computer Science. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer Evocalize - Seattle, WA August 2018 to June 2019 • Integrated the user-facing elements developed by the front-end developers using GraphQL APIs for the Office product and REST APIs for the D2A and Rickshaw products on the server-side using Spring projects powered by Kotlin (Office product) and Java (D2A and Rickshaw products).  • Added numerous flyway data migration files for a PostgreSQL database performing SQL queries that persisted the data of the startup.  • Implemented payments for the future product of the startup using Stripe API on the server-side along with database design for the same.  • Automated the process of new lead notifications using Sendgrid APIs by fetching lead information from a Facebook web hook and then sending that information to the Sendgrid using an API request for the Dynamic Transaction template. Worked with the CEO to update business plan algorithms.  • Added sentry monitoring to the Maven project and integrated it with Slack for instant server side API error and warning stack traces for the D2A product & monitoring to the data feed cron jobs using Dead Man’s Snitch for the Rickshaw product.  • Setup cron jobs for business clients which included data feed imports from client sites.  • Automated the process of making image creatives and worked on designing images for Facebook ads using a shell script and integration of Cloudinary API.  • Integrated Facebook Marketing API for Campaign, Ad Set and Ad creation, updation and removal on the server side.  • Implemented Pixel tracking for Facebook ads that led to Ad performance optimizations.  • Added retry logic for transient Facebook Ad publishing errors which impacted Backend and Customer Support productivity.  • Languages: Java, Kotlin, JavaScript, Shell scripting, PostgreSQL, GraphQL.  • APIs used for Integration: Facebook Marketing API, Stripe API, Sendgrid, Cloudinary, Auth0.  • Technologies: Spring, JUnit, Maven, Gradle, JOOQ, AWS, Azure, Git, Xplenty, Distelli/Puppet pipelines, CircleCI, Docker, Sentry, HAProxy, LetsEncrypt, Terraform. Software Engineer (Jr) TAI Schools - New Delhi, Delhi December 2017 to June 2018 Worked on 3 platforms of an Edutech startup using AngularJS, ReactJS, AWS, Ramses, Nefertari and MongoDB under direct supervision of the CTO.  Increased User Visits by 2700% with a peak of 2,600 + events on one day.  Integrated a payments platform and Google Analytics for all the platforms.  Added responsive styling for the whole website and made it into a Progressive Web Application. Web Developer Intern IRCTC - Indian Railways - New Delhi, Delhi May 2017 to July 2017 Played a pivotal role in the design and development of AlphaMeet - a Board Meeting Web Client for the Executive Board of IRCTC.  Worked under the Supervision of the Joint General Manager (I.T.) of IRCTC to make a step towards automating the Board Meeting process and taking a step towards e-governance.  I was in-charge of UI designing and database modeling. Sales and Marketing Intern Nestlé - New Delhi, Delhi May 2016 to June 2016 Made a Web Application for the Sales team to automate the process of filing leads.  Pitched Nestle? products to over 200 restaurants and hotels all over Delhi to understand the use of Nestle? products throughout the demographic.  Over 60 restaurants and hotels that I pitched to and surveyed are in business with Nestle?. Java Summer Trainee Kyrion Technologies - New Delhi, Delhi May 2015 to July 2015 Worked under the supervision of Gaurav Sood (now working at Paytm) and received training in Core Java and worked on a project in Java. Education Bachelor's in Technology in Computer Science National Institute of Technology, Delhi - New Delhi, Delhi August 2014 to May 2018 High school in American High School Diploma Juneau-Douglas High School - Juneau, AK July 2012 to May 2014 Skills Javascript, Java, Python, Front End, HTML 5, CSS, React, AngularJS, jQuery, MongoDB, Git, Solidity, Ruby on Rails, ReactNative, Node.js, SQL, C, MySQL, Kotlin, PostgresSQL, GraphQL, C#, ASP, .NET Links http://raj.surge.sh http://github.com/rja907 http://twitter.com/rja907 https://stackoverflow.com/users/8588359/raj?tab=profile Certifications/Licenses Modern React with Redux 2017 to Present ES6 Javascript: The Complete Developer's Guide 2017 to Present Node with React: Fullstack Web Development 2017 to Present Front End Web Development Certification 2017 to Present An intensive 400 hour program which teaches HTML5 and CSS3, Responsive Design through Bootstrap, jQuery, Basic/Intermediate Algorithm Scripting in JavaScript,  Ajax and API handling. It requires a student to do 11 Front End Web Development projects(3 Beginner, 4 Intermediate, 3 advanced). Additional Information - Top 10% contributor for the year 2019 on StackOverflow.  - Founding Member and the First Event Organizer for React Delhi NCR Meetup group. (423 member group).  - Won the Mr. Farewell NIT Delhi 2018 award for Talent Show Dancing.  - Only student in the graduating class to be offered a job by Reliance Jio (3rd largest service provider in India) through college placements.  - My team was chosen as one of the top 10 teams out of over 150 teams from all over India at HackDTU (Hackathon at the Delhi Technological University) in February, 2017.  - Qualified for ACM-ICPC India onsite regionals in December, 2016. (Team name: jinchuruki)  - Branch Representative of Computer Science and Engineering during the Freshman year.  - Elected as the Joint Secretary of NIT Delhi’s first ever Student Council.  - Ranked 2nd out of over a 100 teams from colleges all over Delhi in an IT treasure hunt of IIIT Delhi’s tech fest Esya.  - Nominated by the Director of my Institute as one of the six students to be in the Student Body of the college during my Junior year.  - 4-time Gold medalist in College Basketball. (all 4 years).  - A varsity-level Tennis player in High School.  - Selected to dance (150 chosen out of 2,000) in the closing ceremony of the Commonwealth Games (Delhi, 2010) under Shiamak Davar choreography.  - Won the award for the Best Orator in the South East Alaska Regional Debate, Drama and Forensics Championship.  Won the Most Improved Basketball Player award in Junior year of High School.