Java Programmer Analyst <span class="hl">Java</span> Programmer Analyst Java Programmer Analyst - Torrential Inc Edison, NJ • 12+ years of experience in full lifecycle software implementation - Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Production support using various technologies and N-Tier enterprise applications using industry standard Java/JEE technologies.  • Good Knowledge and working experience on Multi-Tier Architecture and Design using client-server and Web Technologies in Leading Banking and Financial Services, Investment Banking and Media Advertising domains.  • Experience in leading and managing teams in Onsite-Offshore model - multi tier Java projects.  • Technical strengths include Java, XML Frameworks and Design Patterns.  • Strong Skills in Object Oriented Programming Concepts, UML modeling and Design Patterns.  • Experience in designing and developing web based enterprise applications using JAVA 8, Spring, Hibernate, RESTFul web services, GWT Bootstrap, Vutify material design framework and D3.  • Experience in Design and Development of database systems using Relational Database Management Systems including Oracle and MySQL Server.  • Worked extensively on Asset management tool Bloomberg's PolarLake  Good knowledge and working experience in XML related technologies like DTD, XSD and JAXP (SAX, DOM), JAXB parsers for parsing xml in to java object.  • Experience in DevOps tools: AWS, GitHub, Jenkins.  • Motivated team player with ability to work under minimal supervision possessing excellent communicational, interpersonal, analytical and problem solving skills.  • Experience in AGILE/Waterfall methodology of software development.  • Strong Communication and Leadership skills.    Technical Skills:    Technologies Java, SQL JavaScript, HTML/HTML5, CSS, XML, XSLT, AWS  Framework Spring 5, Hibernate 5.2, iBatis 2.x, MVC Architecture, GWT Bootstrap  Servers Apache Tomcat 8, Oracle Web Logic  Databases Oracle 10g, MySQL 4.x, SQL Server  IDE Tools Eclipse, NetBeans 6.9, IntelliJ Idea  Operating Systems Windows, Unix and Macintosh  Configuration management Tools SVN, ClearCase, ClearQuest, GitHub, Jira, Jenkins  Domain Knowledge Banking and Financial Services, Investment Banking, Digital Advertising and Travel Domain Work Experience Java Programmer Analyst Torrential Inc - New York, NY December 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Independently developed vast vpaid ad validator(http://tagvalidator.torrenti.al/)  • Involved in Designing and preparing the technical specification document with Architecture diagram, Class diagram, Sequence diagrams.  • Interacting with the clients/end users for new enhancement request.  • Developed new modules which helped to capture the videos events for business team.  • Deployment and configuration of projects on amazon web services (AWS)  • Implementation of Spring Restful web services which produces JSON and XML  • Developing application on Spring framework by utilizing its features like Spring Security and Spring MVC Senior Java Developer Fidelity investment Pvt Ltd July 2011 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  • Preparing detailed plans and schedules for the project in Agile product development team.  • Leading Data Acquisition team and responsible for deliverables.  • Designed, developed prototype to evaluate the architecture and to meet the performance requirement.  • Responsible for managing, monitoring and mentoring team members  • Responsible for code reviews and team mentoring  • Using Maven to build and deploy application onto various Tomcat Application Servers Java Developer Wipro Technologies Pvt Ltd February 2010 to July 2011 Responsibilities:  • Gathering the functional requirements & writing the design document.  • Involved in Analysis, Coding & Testing.  • Preparing detailed plans and schedules for the project.  • Responsible for Prototype Design, Coding and Unit Testing.  • Client validations using JavaScript and server side validations using STRUTS. Java Developer Adea Technologies Pvt Ltd December 2006 to January 2010 Responsibilities:  • Preparing detailed plans and schedules for the project.  • Written parsers for the backend data management.  • Developing code using various patterns like Singleton, Front Controller and Value Objects, DAO  • Fixing of bugs reported by Internal and external testing team.  • Worked in close coordination with the team. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Engineering Vishweshwaraya Technological University 2005 Skills Hibernate, JSP, Java J2Ee, J2Ee, Java, Javascript, Spring, Jquery, Angular Links http://linkedin.com/in/swaroopa-b-s-81231390