Sr Java Developer Sr <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Java Developer - Bank of America Charlotte, NC • 14+ years of experience in Software Development Life-Cycle (SDLC) phases of design, development, implementation, deployment, testing, and maintenance as per quality standards using Agile, Scrum and waterfall methodologies.  • Good Experience in Application Software Development and Design, Object Oriented, Technical Documentation, Software Testing, and Debugging.  • Excellent implementation knowledge of JDK 1.6/1.7 and 1.8, Spring, Spring Boot, Hibernate, Restful Web Services, AOP, Struts, JDBC.  • Consumed and Exposed both REST and SOAP-based web services very good experience with SOA model.  • Experience in RDBMS using MySQL, Oracle, SQL Server, PostgreSQL.  • Involved in configuring, deploying applications on IBM Web Sphere Application Server, BEA Web Logic Application Server, Apache Tomcat on UNIX, Linux and Windows platforms.  • Extensive experience in Design, Development, and implementation of Model-View-Controller (MVC) using Spring and Spring Boot.  • Good experience in Database Design, writing stored procedure, functions, triggers, SQL queries.  • Developed the code for front-end using EXTJS, AngularJS, JQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML, CSS, and JSON.  • Good knowledge on TCP/IP tunneling and port management on cloud environments, installation of servers on cloud unix.  • Good experience in production support and client interaction.  • Experience in creating build scripts using Ant and Maven also have experience in Jenkins.  • Strong TDD (test driven development) and continuous integration experience using Selenium, JUnit, Mock Framework. Worked on the Cucumber framework  • Strong experience in developing the Restful applications on top of Spring Framework.  • Experience leading offshore team remotely and updating status to client accordingly  • Have good experience working with Cloud-based servers and also AWS- Amazon web services  • Experienced in remodeling and improving the performance of the applications.  • Knowledge on Spring integration and batch file and hand on experience with Oracle SOA.  • Proficient in using XML Suite of Technologies like XML, XSL, XSLT, DTD, XML Schema, SAX and DOM Parsers.  • Have a deep understanding of both Relational Database and also experience in a non-relational database like MongoDB.  • Extensive experience in SQL, Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers with databases such as Oracle, IBM DB2 and MS SQL Server.  • Experienced in using WSDL, SOAP, and Apache AXIS for Web Services.  • Expertise in client side designing and validations using HTML, DHTML, CSS, Java Script, AJAX, JSP, XML, JSF and Swing.  • Extensively experienced in implementing single page applications using angular.JS directives, routing modules.  • Created custom directives, decorators, and services using AngularJS to interface with both Restful and legacy network services also DOM applications.  • Expertise in advanced f libraries and frameworks such as JQuery, AngularJS, Angular 2, Backbone.js, Prototype, Dojo, Node.js, Ember.js, Knockout.js, Ext.js, and Underscore.js.  • Good Experience in developing test cases with JUnit and logging with Log4j.  • Extensive experience utilizing JAXB, JAXP and JMS.  • Hands-on exposure to multiple Application Servers like BEA web logic Application Server, Apache Tomcat, WebSphere and JBoss.  • Experience in writing the scripting language Groovy which can run on the Java virtual machine.  • Experience in shell scripting and Python in Unix/Linux environment.  • Extensive development experience on different IDE's like Eclipse, JBOSS, RAD and NetBeans for debugging and using java coding standards.  • Good debugging skills that deep diving into technical issues, collaborating with cross-domain experts, handling clients with different priorities and mindsets, both onsite and remote.  • Experience in using CVS, Rational Clear Case, SVN and Git for version control.  • Knowledge in developing System Design using UML methodology and preparation of class and sequence diagrams.  • Communicate effectively with people at different levels including stakeholders, internal teams and the senior management.  • Experience working in an Agile/Scrum team environment and pair programming.  • Strengths include good team player, self-motivated, quick learner, open to working with new technologies in a dynamic, fast-paced and deadline drove environment, excellent interpersonal, analytical and communication skills Work Experience Sr Java Developer Bank of America - Charlotte, NC November 2018 to Present Description: The Bank of America Corporation is an American multinational investment bank and financial services company based in Charlotte, North Carolina with central hubs in New York City, London, Hong Kong, and Toronto. Bank of America was formed through NationsBank's acquisition of BankAmerica in 1998.  • Used Spring MVC framework on the server side for creating RESTFul web services by giving JSON output to UI and modifying the DOM object on UI, by making HTTP calls and used GET and PUT.  • Worked on Spring Security feature by securing the application by security interceptors and also worked with external entitlement services to authenticate the user to access the data.  • Understanding user stories to design and propose a solution to the problems in Microservices architecture.  • Development of Spring Microservices and Converting user stories into backend logic in-service classes.  • Worked with the RedHatjBPM engine in embedded mode by creating multiple BPMN workflows and handled user tasks  • Worked on deployments with CI/CT with Jenkins and UDeploy to build to higher environments  • Applied AOP logic to all the Process instances and user tasks.  • Developed email notifications batch job service using CRON scheduler by interacting with the SMTP server to run nightly batches.  • Developed multiple Controllers, Services & DAO layers to interact with the data layer and developed Entity classes based on the table structure.  • Involved in core integration to pick the file from FTP location and bring them into our staging tables and did all the validation on the java side  • Created multiple mid-tier services to interact with multiple validations and worked on entitlements services to do user validations Interaction and also worked on applying security systems.  • Worked with Oracle database and used Hibernate (ORM). Created POJO/Data  • Objects in mid-tier service. Hands on experience on implementing lazy loading, first and second level of caching.  • Leading on-shore offshore model Coordinating with the Offshore team in India and being flexible on gathering updated from the team. Work closely with Database team and testing team.  • Worked on Jasper reports using i Report tool and integrated that JRXML into spring framework.  • Wrote SQL commands and Stored Procedures to retrieve data from Oracle database. Worked to plug this procedure in Java classes.  • Developed the application using Singleton, Business Delegate and Data Transfer Object design patterns in the project.  • We are using crucible while we commit code into SVN for reviewing the code.  • Written JUnit test cases during the development phase and used assert functions to compare two objects.  • Used JIRA for bug and issue tracking.  • Worked on one of the UI based application and client focus more on the look and feel of the UI. We use lots of customs components to design the UI. Chase standards and HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, ExtJS and Angular JSis being used intensively.  • Good experience in documentation of designs and flow charts. Also worked on designing DATA Models and maintain the existing documents in share-point.  Environment: Java (JDK1.7 & 1.8), SOAP and RESTFul web services, Hibernate, Eclipse, Oracle 10g, Tomcat 7 and 8, HTML, CSS, Sencha, JavaScript, Ajax, Log4j, Jenkins, SVN, Maven and ANT, iReport, Crucible, Spring MVC, Micro Services,Unix, XML, TDD, PUTTY, WinSCP, Eclipse Neon1, NaviCat, SQL Developer, Toad, Cloud-Servers. Sr. Java Developer CVS Health - Woonsocket, RI August 2016 to November 2018 Description: CVS is one of the nation's leading pharmacy benefit management (PBM) companies, provides comprehensive prescription benefit management services to over 2,000 health plans, including corporations, managed care organizations, insurance companies, unions and government entities. Developed Application which is related to surveys from customers. Based on the customers rating we send surveys to them regarding stores.  • Involved in gathering and analyzing business requirements and converting them in to technical specifications.  • Used Agile-Scrum software development methodology to develop batch jobs.  • Used Oracle database for storing and retrieving data.  • Used Apache Maven as a build tool for building the RESTful web-service.  • Used UNIX scripts to send data to vendor through FTP.  • Developed webservices as enhancements in other projects related to coupons.  • Extensive experience in database programming on stored procedures, functions and triggers using (SQL, PL/SQL) with Oracle.  • Used Log4j2 to log and track the application.  • Responsible for Development, Bug fixing and maintenance of application.  • Used PVCS and SVN configuration management tool for code versioning and release.  • Developed application using Spring batch to get the data from database and set to the vendor through FTP process from Unix.  • Used Spring Boot, Spring Batch along with webservices and JDBC to handles some business requirements.  Environment: Spring Boot, Spring Batch, JDBC, UNIX, SVN, PVCS, TERADATA, Maven, Oracle, SQL Developer, REST, JDK1.8, core Java, J2EE Sr. Java Developer State Farm Insurance Corp March 2014 to August 2016 Description: State Farm is a group of insurance and financial services companies in the United States. The application is designed to present quotes to online & mobile customers while providing wide range of search and filters on the plans and benefits available from State Farm. Web Services have been used to compare the quotes from different competitors. Used AngularJS, Bootstrap and JQuery for Responsiveness and Implemented SOA based web services for offering quotes to third parties and restful web services for mobile clients. Extensively used messaging for asynchronous processing of the submitted quotes and confirmed quotes for completing documents/paper work.  • Collaborated with the Business Analysis team and Project Architect to analyze the requirements and implemented the functionality using Spring 4.0, Hibernate 2.0 for persistence and Spring MVC for front-end development.  • Created & maintained the configuration of the Spring Framework's IoC container.  • Created CSS Layouts from wireframes.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, and administrating Hadoop cluster.  • Converted ANT scripts to Maven.  • Developed MQ message readers and writers.  • Implemented continuous integration using Oracle Hudson.  • Wrote unit tests using Test Driven Development (TDD) methodology.  • Implemented business validations with custom valuators'.  • Integrated Navigation capabilities into the pages.  • Used JavaScript for Client Side manipulation in JSP pages.  • Extensively used Hibernate Query Language (HQL) for data retrieval from the Oracle 10g database and process the data in the business methods.  • Used Quartz, to schedule one week prior notice automated emails.  • Designed and developed most of the application's GUI screens using GWT framework  • Used Hibernate annotations to map java objects to the database.  • Applied Hibernate Validator constraints for data checks.  • Implemented Hibernate and Spring's DAO layer together offer a high performance, productive approach to persist Plain Old Java Objects (POJOs).  • Used MQ Visual Edit tool for monitoring MQ queues.  • Wrote declarative transactions using Spring framework for transaction management at service layer.  • Implemented JQueryUI Theme roller to implement theming for the client.  • Used AngularJS to implement client side filtering & sorting.  • Used NodeJS for continuous client side deployment.  • Used Quartz, to schedule one week prior notice automated emails.  • Performed Hibernate performance tuning for Oracle database.  • Used Java Excel API (JExcelApi) to generate spreadsheets in Excel.  • Performed refactoring of the code for better performance.  • Performed activities like team co-ordination and code review.  • Provided troubleshooting for applications in production to achieve a better performance. Responsible for maintenance and enhancements to the application doing code changes and bug fixes, which included debugging Java code. Fixed performance issues, out of memory issues, minimized network trips by using proper design patterns. Optimized SQL queries causing performance problems.  • Used JConsole and JProfiler to monitor the application performance issues.  • Used Subversion for source control management.  Environment: JDK 1.7, Spring 3.1(DI, MVC, Spring Integration, AOP), Quartz, Hibernate 4.0, JAX-RS Webservices, JAX-WS Webservices, Apache CXF, JQuery 1.9, JQueryUI, GWT, AJAX, UML, MS Visio, JSTL, Oracle 11g, WebLogic 12.1, Eclipse 4.2, Junit, MQ (Message Queue), XMLSPY, SOAPUI 5.1, Log4j, Maven 3.1, Accurev, PMD, Bootstrap, AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, Toad, Maven, Hudson, TcpMon, Sun Jersey, Junit 4.1, Power mock, Selenium, JIRA, Rally, Free marker, Apache POI, Quartz Scheduler,TcpMon, JConsole, JProfiler, Subversion, NodeJS, JExcel Java developer State of Tennessee department - Nashville, TN January 2012 to March 2014 • Development, Enhancement, Maintenance, Administration of Contract Management web application.  • Maintain onsite and/or offshore environment for support, maintenance and enhancement of the applications using Service Manager, Change Management tools.  • Quality Control and Configuration Management Tasks.  • Participated in Requirement discussions and in preparing the Design Documents.  • Used spring and Hibernate to implement business and DAO layers.  • Followed agile methodology and attended Scrum meetings to update the status of daily tasks.  • Used SOAPUI to test the SOAP and Restful services and load testing Configured and created application log files using Log4J.  • Used dependency injection (DI) with spring framework for defining object dependencies.  • Developed UI for web platform using JavaScript, HTML, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery validations and JSON.  • The configurations for simulating an HTTP request handling in NodeJS by using Express.  • Worked on various enhancements and bug fixes simultaneously JSON for storing and exchanging information between browsers and servers.  • Responsible to manipulate HTML5, CSbS3 in JQuery as well as making the page's dynamic using AJAX, XML and JSON.  • Worked on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements etc.  • Development of highly interactive multiplayer HTML5 / CSS3 / Canvas based games using Angular JS and JQuery with custom GruntJS configurations for testing and final deployment.  • Built main applications in leveraging technologies such as Angular.js  • Written ReactJS components and used prop Types to implement security to the components.  • Used Shallow rendering and prop assertions to test the React JS components.  • Used XML Web Services using SOAP to transfer the amount to transfer application that is remote and global to different financial institutions.  • Responsible to manipulate HTML5, CSS3 in JQuery as well as making the page's dynamic using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Took advantage of MVC pattern of Angular JS framework to produce higher maintainability of the code.  • Design and develop UI classes to build the business logic of product.  • Involved in Developing database transactions Using JDBC.  • Deployed the application using Tomcat 8 Application Server.  • Used JDBCAPI for interaction with the SQL Server Database.  • Designed the performance monitoring for services implemented  • Written Stored Procedures for Backend  Environment: Java1.8, Hibernate, JPA, Oracle, PL/SQL, Spring, Mockito, SOAP/REST Services, JMS, HTML5CSS3, d3.js, AJAX, JQuery1.4.1, Angular, React JS, Node JS, Apache Flex, Bootstrap, HTML, JavaScript, MS Word, Grunt, Windows, XML, Tomcat 8, GIT, Clear Case, Harvest, JAXB, Servlets, SOAP UI, Jenkins, Code Collaborator. Java Developer DXC Technologies - Roseville, CA September 2010 to January 2012 Description: DXC Technology is an end-to-end Services Company headquartered in Tysons Corner, Virginia. DXC provides information technology and consulting services to businesses and governments.  • Developed application using JSP, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Spring, and Hibernate and Angular.js  • Documented the tech design artifacts and socialized with the key stakeholders for approval.  • Responsible for developing web pages quickly and effectively using HTML 5, CSS 3, AJAX, JSON, and jQuery.  • Using AngularJS, HTML 5 and CSS 3. All HTML and DHTML is accomplished through AngularJS directives.  • Developed callback functions to parse and handle JSON data returned from the server.  • The tech stack is AngularJS, LESS, Bootstrap and cutting-edge server-side technologies.  • Developed all client-side logical implementation part of applications with AngularJS controllers under specific modules, manipulating nodes in DOM tree.  • Used ReactJS for creating reusable UI components.  • Implemented MVC architecture using spring framework.  • Involved in the implementation of business logic in Struts Framework and Hibernate in the back-end.  • Involved developing re-usable web services using SOAP, XML, WSDL, XML Schemas  • Extensively used Web Services WSDL and SOAP for getting the information of the third party.  • Created smart navbar system in typescript that would retain a client context across multiple web apps using the query string. Smart nav would automatically determine selected navigation node using the browser URL.  • Responsible for writing J2EE compliant code using Java for an application development effort. This involves working with JSP, Servlets, JDBC, XML etc.  • Implemented Backbone.js and React.js to create a dynamically changing website.  • Worked with Java libraries to access AWS facilities as Simple Storage Service (S3), Simple Queue Service (SQS) and Simple DB.  • Wrote application level code to interact with the backend databases JQUERY, AJAX, and JSON.  • Created new tables, written stored procedures, triggers and some user-defined functions using SQL server.  • Created SQL scripts for tuning and scheduling with SQL server  • Extensively used jQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the document and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  • Tested the integrated application and reported issues to the back-end developers (JIRA)  • Involved in UI Testing with Jira which is generally testing the graphical user interfaces.  • Identified usability and develop functional and smooth, easy-to-operate and eye-catching web applications using ExtJS, Angular JS and React JS, Backbone.js, Node.js and Bootstrap with MySQL database.  • Perform web optimization on websites and web services for improved functionality over cross browsers and platforms.  • Used Bootstrap and AngularJS, React.js and Node.js in effective web design.  • Used unit testing framework Jasmine for testing JavaScript  • Used version control system GIT to maintain code repositories  • Used jQuery core libraries for the logical implementation part at the client side of the website.  • Involved in writing jQuery based Ajax requests using jQuery. Get (URL, data, success, type) and jQuery. Post (URL, data, success, type)  • Used jQuery to traverse through the DOM and access the nodes.  Environment: HTML, CSS, DHTML, DOM, jQuery, JavaScript, SVN, Typescript, SOAP, XML, SQL, JIRA, Windows Platforms, GIT, Grunt, Jasmine, Angular JS, React JS, IDE- Eclipse, Node JS, Ajax, JSON, SQL Server and MS Office, Java, JSP, Spring and Hibernate. Java Developer Vanguard - Malvern, PA June 2008 to September 2010 Description: Secure Site Project One is to integrate and build a single sign on user interface for Balances and Holdings accounts of a user. The project combines the legacy individual account and brokerage account into a single individual investment account.  • Involved in SDLC requirements gathering, analysis, design, development and testing of application developed using agile methodology.  • Created user-friendly GUI interface and Web pages using HTML, CSS, JQuery and Javascript.  • Used Spring MVC, Ajax and Dependency Injection for handling presentation and business logic.  • Used Spring IOC to maintain loose coupling between layers published the business layer as services and injected the necessary dependent components and published cross cutting concerns like Logging, User Interface exceptions, Transactions using Spring AOP and annotations.  • Developed application using Spring Modules following MVC design pattern.  • Primarily focused on the spring components such as Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers, Model and View Objects, View Resolver  • Responsible for designing Hibernate ORM mapping files based on business logic and Object relationship.  • Developed Message Driven Bean for asynchronous sending Messages using JMS.  • Consumed Web Services to interact with other external interfaces in order to exchange the data in the form of XML and by using SOAP2.  • Used Oracle SQL Server for storing the data and extensively used PL/SQL queries along with stored procedures, Joins and functions for complex queries and data analysis.  • Written and modified SQL queries and stored procedures for the application to communicate with Database.  • Oracle used as backend, Worked on SQL queries for persistence of Business Objects.  • Established Database Connectivity using JDBC API, Hibernate O/R mapping with Spring ORM for MySQL Server.  • Packaged and deployed the application in IBM Web Sphere.  • Used Log4J for application logging and notification tracing mechanisms.  • Performed testing using JUnit and tested various test cases using Selenium and on service providers like Browser Stack.  • Used Cucumber to write acceptance tests for web application.  • Used JIRA to track bugs, prioritize and discuss team's work in full context  Environment: Java, HTML, CSS, Java script, JSON, XML, AJAX, JQuery, DAO, Hibernate, Spring MVC, EJB, Cucumber, Web Sphere Server, MySQL Server, Selenium, EJB, JMS, Ant, Eclipse IDE, JIRA, LINUX, Web Service-Soap. Java Developer Vatsa Solutions - Pune, Maharashtra February 2006 to June 2008 Description:Worked as an entry level Software developer in the 'Manufacturing' domain to develop web applications for Clients  • Implemented the project according to the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  • Worked on complete life cycle, design, development, and testing using OOA and OOD  • Project was developed using Agile and Scrum methodologies  • Designed application based on the architecture of MVC design pattern using Servlets, JSP, and JavaBeans  • Developed end-user friendly GUI using HTML, JSP, CSS, and JavaScript  • Applied OO Programming concepts like Inheritance and Polymorphism to improve existing Java/J2EE based code base.  • Involved in maintenance and enhancement of the application  • Developed the web layer using Spring MVC framework  • Implemented AJAX calls using JQuery for interactive and dynamic data retrieval and messaging in JSON  • Implemented CSS Manipulation, HTML Event functions, JavaScript Effects and animations using JQuery  • Developed SOAP services using JAX-WS and Spring-WS frameworks, and generated WSDL for communication with consuming applications  • Used WSDL to post services in UDDI  • Involved in Database design and developing SQL Queries, stored procedures on MySQL  • Involved in writing JUnit test cases, unit and integration testing of the application  • Developed front-end application to process online requests  • Prepared auto deployment scripts for Web Sphere in UNIX environment  • Used SVN for version control  • Designed and developed UML diagrams like Use-case and Sequence diagrams as per requirement  • Involved in code review and function testing for better client interface and usability  Environment: Java, HTML, JDBC, SOAP, Spring, Servlets, JSP, SQL, XML, ANT, GIT, JUnit, CSS, JavaScript Education Bachelor's Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jaxp, Jboss, Jbuilder, jquery, Jsp, Jstl, Servlet, Struts, Db2, Jdbc, Mysql, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Sybase Additional Information Technical Skills:  Programming Languages C, C++, Java, J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL  Web Technologies  Servlet, JSP, JDBC, Tag Libraries, JAXP, JSTL, DHTML and HTML, CSS, BOOT STRAP, Angular JS, React JS, MVC Framework Struts 1.1/1.2, Spring    MVC Framework Struts 1.1/1.2, Spring  ORM Framework Hibernate 3.0/4.0, Hibernate Search ORM 4.5, JPA  Scripting language JAVASCRIPT, AJAX, Shell Script.  Databases Oracle 8i/9i/10g, Sybase,DB2, SQL, MySQL  Methodologies Agile, Scrum, Test Driven Development  Application Servers WEBLOGIC, JBOSS, APACHE TOMCAT.  TOOLS  BUILD (ANT, MAVEN, MAVEN2), LOGGING(LOG4J), VERSION CONTROL (CVS, SVN, CLEAR CASE, SURROUND),TESTING (JIIRA, JUNIT, JMETER, JQUERY, CLEAR QUEST), MONITORING (SPLUNK, GOMEZ), TRAFFIC ROUTING (Big F5)    Application and Web servers Tomcat 7, JBOSS 5.0, WebSphere 7/ 8.5, Glass Fish Payer 4.1  IDEs & Tools  Maven, Eclipse LUNA JIRA, NetBeans, TOAD, RAD, JBuilder, Junit, Mockito, Oracle SQL Developer, Tortoise SVN, SOAP UI, Tortoise CVS, WinSCP, Jenkins,AWS, Docker    Operating Systems WINDOWS 2000, WINDOWS XP, WINDOWS 7, Mac OS, UNIX, LINUX