Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Fidelity Investment ? Over Nine Years of progressive experience in all the phases of software development life cycle (SDLC) that includes Requirement Study, Analysis, Design, Development, Integration, Scrum, Re-Engineering, maintenance, installation, implementation and testing of various client/server and N-tier web applications.  ? Well versed in using Software development methodologies Agile Methodology and Waterfall software development processes.  ? Strong on Java concepts, Restful web Services and J2EE technologies such as Servlets, JDBC, JSP, and spring, Hibernate, XML, XSD, SOAP, WSDL, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JUnit.  ? Worked on different module of spring including Spring MVC, Spring ORM and Spring Boot.  ? Proficient in Object Oriented Programming using Core Java, Multi-threading, Synchronization, Serialization, Collections and Data Structures.  ? Experience in integrating Web Center Application with Spring & Hibernate frameworks.  ? Good working experience with using Array list, Map and Sets of Collections API and core Java Concepts like Exception Handling, multi-threading.  ? Experienced in developing J2EE applications on Spring framework, Hibernate, J2EE Patterns based frameworks.  ? Good Experience with Springs, Spring IOC, AOP, MVC, Spring Security Spring JPA.  ? Knowledge in Spring Boot, Spring Microservice.  ? Experience in JDBC, ORM framework ,JNDI and JMS.  ? Expertise in using and configuring various web and application servers like IBM WebSphere Application Server, WebSphere Liberty profile, Apache Tomcat, JBoss Application Server andWebLogic Application Server.  ? Extensively worked on Web Services technologies like SOAP, WSDL,REST API.  ? Have good knowledge working on XML Suite of Technologies XML, XSL, XSLTand validations with DTD & XML Schema and processing files with SAX, DOM Parsers.  ? Extensively implemented J2EE design patterns such as MVC, Service Locator, Factory Pattern, Session Facade, Singleton, Service Factory, and DAO.  ? Have rich experience in databases like Oracle 10g, SQL Server, MySQL.  ? Possess strong working knowledge of Database Programming using SQL, PL/SQL, Triggers, Functions, Sequences, Views and Stored Procedures  ? Good working experience in Core Java, Multithreading and Exception Handling.  ? Experience in developing web applications with MVC architecture using Spring framework.  ? Experience in developing web applications using Spring MVC ,AOP ,Security module.  ? Experience in working Spring Restful webservices.  ? Experience in working Spring Hibernate integration.  ? Experienced in developing web-applications using various design patterns, including session facade, MVC,Data Access Object, Transfer Object, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Intercepting Filter and Factory Design patterns.  ? Sound experience in developing and deploying applications using Web logic9.x/10.x, JBoss EAP Application Server 5.0/5.1, Apache Tomcat Server 4.0/5.0, Jboss.  ? Experience in writing XML converters using DTD for validation, XSL for formatting and displaying XML data on browser.  ? Extensive experience in developing user interface using JSP, JAVA SCRIPT, JSTL, TAGLIBS, CSS, HTML, JDK 1.6, and HTML.  ? Developed Web services to share the data across heterogeneous platforms.  ? Proficient in system development in UNIX (Solaris, HP-UX) and Windows 98/NT/2000 platforms.  ? Good knowledge of Oracle9i/8i/7.x, SQLServer7.0/6.0.  ? Knowledge on Oracle PL/SQL stored Procedures , Functions and triggers.  ? Developed and debugged web applications using Eclipse,  ? Worked on Restful webservices and Apache axis2 soap webservices.  ? Worked on CT and production defects..  ? Worked on FIX application  ? Knowledge on Java 1.8 using Lamda Functions and Stream api.  ? Possess good interpersonal skills and Technical skills.  ? Implemented JAXB Parser to convert XML to CSV files.  ? Worked on Agile environment used Version Control.  ? Worked on Mongo DB query writing and spring integration.  ? Worked Equity Derivate Project for DTCC and Citi client. Work Experience Java Developer Fidelity Investment August 2018 to Present Description:  Working on Fidelity Survalaince Team that contains different module like optimization , RCM Alerts , RCM Notfier and Case and SAR Project,Documnetam project in CTG group.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in business analysis, high-level design, detailed design, data design and coding using Java ,Spring , Web services.  • Working on java 7 to java 8 upgrade for all the projects.  • Worked on RCM Notifier and RCM alert existing issue.  • Worked on Smarts Nasdaq project.  • Implemented rest endpoints using Spring.  • Implemented SOAP client and security.  • Working on Documentam Project based on Spring Framework based rest uri call.  • Working on enhancement of Documentam project.  • Involved in UAT and production bug fixes  • Used Maven as a build tool in the application.  • Worked Spring MVC,Spring Boot ,Spring Rest and Spring security module.  • Worked Restful and Soap Web services.  • Worked on Apache cmis api.  • Worked java encryption and decryption to convert clear text password to encrypted on actimize servers.  • Fixed few production defects on angular code.  • Implemented design patterns, including session facade, MVC,Data Access Object, Transfer Object, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Intercepting Filter and Factory Design patterns.  • Worked on bash scripting.  • Learning Angular JS implemented in existing application and fixing production bugs.    Environment: Core JAVA, Spring Core, Spring Rest,Spring Boot,JSON,Oracle, Restful Webservices, Angular JS,Bit Bucket, Maven Java Developer Citi December 2017 to August 2018 Description:  Eagle DQaaS offers a set of features that are critical for implementing various aspects of Data Quality Governance process for data. Together it will help control quality of data stored in your data store thereby maintaining acceptable degree of confidence in business intelligence/analytics dependent on this data.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in business analysis, high-level design, detailed design, data design and coding.  • Developed the Rest web services using JAX-RS jersy.  • Developed jersy client code on consuming restful web services.  • Designd and Implemented DB automation using Spring Framework.  • Worked on Spring IOC and dependency module.  • Implemented Spring Mongo Integration to perform CRUD operations on MongoDB.  • Implemented data Quality rule refresh logic using Mongo Query.  • Worked on consuming SharePoint rest web services and stored data in Mongo Collection.  • Implemented entitlement on Restful api call.  • Implemented NTLM authentication on restful client for SharePoint services.  • Worked on support for other team consuming DQEagle.  • Implemented various restful API to implement various reports for eagle client.  • Extensive worked on MongoDB complex query with spring Framework Integration to achieve automation  • Involved in UAT and production bug fixes  • Used Maven as a build tool in the application.  • Implemented Junit framework using spring mockito integration.  • Writing CURL scripts to test REST application.  • Worked on MongoDB complex aggregation Query.  • Implemented design patterns, including session facade, MVC,Data Access Object, Transfer Object, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Intercepting Filter and Factory Design patterns.    Environment: Core JAVA, Spring Core, Spring Mongo Integration,JSON,MongoDB,JERSY RestfulWeb services, Bit Bucket, Mongo Chef, Maven. Java Developer DTCC - Boston, MA June 2014 to December 2017 Description: Omgeo CTM is a strategic, global enterprise platform for managing the trade process from Notice ofExecution (NOE) to pre-settlement. Omgeo CTM provides automated central matching of crossborderdebt, equity, futures, options, and repurchase agreement (repo) transactions. For an updated,complete list of supported asset classes and instruments.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in business analysis, high-level design, detailed design, data design and coding.  • Developed the presentation Tier using Applet.  • Worked on Multithreading and thread pool concept in mid tier to implement pollster for continuous trade Monitoring.  • Worked on Xml SAXParser to parse XML message as a input to CTM.  • Implemented customized comparator class to implement sorting.  • CTM UI uri is implemented using Spring Restful Webservices.  • Worked on the spring framework like Spring IOC and Spring DAO.  • Worked on Spring MVC, Spring EHCache and Spring Restful framework.  • Worked on Spring AOP and data validation.  • Implemented custom logging framework using Spring AOP.  • Implemented Spring declarative transaction Management.  • Used Persistence framework to automate the storage of program data into database.  • Implemented Spring JDBC template to perform CURD operations.  • Used Spring Beans to develop the business logic.  • Developed Unit Test Cases using JUnit.  • Used Ant and maven for the build and deployment.  • Used Accurev for Version Control.  • Analyzing Oracle query,Stored Procedures and functions to solve UAT/PROD issue.  • Developed JMS client component to send and receive messages from CTM to clients via the Queues.  • Using Java Message Service (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information for notifying client on event genreation.  • Upgraded Enterprise security 1.0 to 2.0.  • Used AJAX & JSON communication for accessing Restful web services data payload.  • Worked on production and CT defects.  • Migrated CTM mid tier to java 1.8.  • Implemented Singleton , Factory , Businessdelegate ,DAO and MVC Design Patterns.  • Used Core Java, data structures (Stack, queue, Linked List) , Object Oriented Design (OOD) and Java concepts such as OOP Concepts, Collections Framework, Exception Handling, I/O System and Multi-Threading.  • Involved in production bug fixes and enhancement implementation for FIX application.  • Worked as a lead from onshore to coordinate offshore development team and handling daily basis tasks.  • have worked on writing new rules for generating sync erros and asynchronus errors for handling bloomberg trade, changed in pathRule to accept bloomberg messages and created some new MQ events related to Bloomberg as part of CTM interoprabity project.    • Worked on bash scripting.  • Learning Angular JS implemented in existing application and fixing production bugs.    Environment: Core JAVA, Multithreading ,JMS,SQL Developer, Spring 4.0, IBM MQ ,JSON,XML, Jenkins, Web logic Application Server (WAS), Tomcat, Sonar, Oracle 9i, Agile, TeamTrack, BitBucket, Angular JS, Maven. Java Developer DTCC July 2013 to May 2014 Project Name: Proforma    Description: Proforma application seeks to provide a new sales and retention tool for Retail Business Accounts that recommend product selection based on account criteria. This tool will be accessed through multiple channels and have the ability to promote products based on customer transaction behavior and current campaigns.  Responsibilities:  • Analyzing System Requirements and preparing System Design document, Mockup documents.  • Full life cycle experience including requirements gathering, business analysis, high level design, detailed design, data design, coding, testing, and creation of functional documentation.  • Developed the presentation Tier using HTML, JSP, and Java Script.  • Designed and developed the application based on MVC design pattern using Spring MVCframework, Hibernate ORM framework.  • Used Spring Validation framework to perform the server side validations.  • Implemented Spring and Hibaernate Integraion.  • Implemented Spring DAO and Service Layer.  • Implemented Spring AOP to achieve transaction Management like exception handling and auto rollback.  • Used JSTL and also developed custom tag libraries to use in the JSP.  • Used Hibernate ORM Framework for performing CRUD operations on DataBase.  • Used Spring ORM support and integrated with Hibernate ORM framework.  • Used XML, XSD to design the SOAP based web services.  • Published and consumed SOAP based web services.  • Used design patterns such as Singleton, MVC, Factory, Service Location, Business Delegate, Session Façade, and DAO.  • Developed Unit Test Cases using JUnit.  • Used Eclipse as the IDE.  • Used Maven for the build and deployment.  • Used Clear Quest for Defect Tracking purposes.  • Used UNIX environment to deploy the applications into QA environments.    Environment: J2EE, JSP, JSTL, Spring MVC Design, HTML, Tomcat, SQL Server, Spring 3.0, Hibernate, HTML, XML, AIX/Unix, XML Spy, CVS, Web Logic Application Server (WAS), Sonar, CSS, web services, Java Developer Colt Telecommunications UK October 2011 to June 2013 Project Name: Reseller ID DROP 2 (ROSS)    Description: Product modeling is a new feature being added as part of RID Phase 2 Drop 2 project. On a broad level, there are some major aspects to modeling a product and provisioning it to the end users:    i) Configuring the product in Web Manager, and ii) Preparing the infrastructure to provision the newly configured product.  iii) Coding changes in Cocom (Standalone) application.    Cocom is service provider based on Spring-Web Services architecture. B2B system call the cocom exposed webservices to perform the validation and processing of different activities like active cli, deactive cli , active cps, manage cps and deactivate cps.    Resellers directly place their requests to B2B using XML over https and indirectly through FTP and a GUI based interface called Web Manager. WM B2B redirects all provisioning requests to Cocom using Cocom API. Porting requests are handled by porting processes implemented within webMethods.    Responsibilities:  • Design and develop data services using Java development tools.  • Design application code to support business requirements and rules for analysis of program qualification and payment information.  • Developed Product Modelling controllers using Spring MVC.  • Data persistence done using Spring Hibernate Integration.  • Developed Spring DAO,Service Layer.  • Developed Spring Validation Framework to perform server side validations.  • Consumed SOAP webservices using Apache Axis 2.  • Develop backend services using SQL skills.  • Perform unit testing on developed application code.  • Perform requirement gathering and analysis.  • Perform systems and applications design.  • Perform programming, development, and implementation using Java/J2EE expertise.  • Perform systems configuration, installation, maintenance, deployment, migration, and administration.  • Develop system and application documentation and reports.  • Provide customer and end-user technical training and support.  • Develop work products utilizing identified best practices, procedures, and methodologies.    Environment: Java 1.6, J2EE, Spring Core, Spring Ioc, Spring AOP, SVN, IBatis, JMS, JAX-WS, JNDI,SAX, ANT,DB2, log4j,slf4j, Web services (JAX-WS,SOAP,WSDL), XSD, Xpath, XSL, XSLT, Web Logic Application Server (WAS), Eclipse , IBM Web Logic Application Server7.x, SOAP UI, Linux. Sr. Java Developer Colt Telecommunications UK November 2010 to September 2011 Project Name: YBR (Your Benefit Resources)  AON Hewitt is in the process of creating YBR (Your Benefits Resource) Mobile capabilities to serve their clients' mobile workforce that's always on the go. Many employees work in the field, travel regularly, or don't have an assigned desk/phone when they are in the office. We want to be positioned to better serve these users.    The Mobile Enhancements project will create YBR Mobile capabilities. The solution will utilize leading mobile technology, be easy and quick to use, and easy for client teams to setup. The application is a rich user interface which leverages the latest smart phone rendering capabilities as well as providing a touch friendly user experience.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in configuring hibernate configuration file for different databases.  • Developed YBR using Spring MVC.  • Developed Spring Service and DAO Layer  • Developed Customized Logger using Spring AOP.  • Consumed Apache Axis2 Web services.  • Implemented Apache Rampart to achieve WS security.  • Maintain WSDL.  • Involved in writing hibernate mapping files to follow Declarative approach.  • Involved in configuring DAO's with use of session factory and transactions.  • Involved in developing JSP's with help of JSP-tags and in-house tags to meet the business requirements.  • Involved in writing java scripts that handles events related page closing.  • Used variety of Design Patterns such as Business Delegate, Session Façade and Singleton, Front Controller.  • Involved in consuming web services by writing clients for the services provided by other components.  • Helped in identifying the required new batch jobs that needs to be created, one of them is updating all the existing records with correct start date and end dates.  • Worked as a lead to develop the product manangement module with junior developers and trained developers on Spring 3.0    Environment: Spring 3.0, Hibernate 3.0, Apache Axis2 Web services JAX-RS, Soap UI, Weblogic 7, Linux. Java Developer Xavient Software Solutions Pvt. LTD December 2007 to September 2010 Project Name: Poet/RConnect    Project Description: These web applications used by the partners and retailers of Dish Network for ordering the products and services of Dish Network by creating and managing their accounts in CSG. POET stands for "PARTNERS ORDER ENTRY TOOL" which is used by sales partners of Dish Network to create/manage existing orders. Dish Network provides services to both Residential Customers (Existing and New) and Commercial Customers (Banks, Hospitals, Clubs, Hotels, Fire Stations, and Hostels etc.). RConnect stands for Retailer Care Site. It is a web based retailer application tool to create, update, and reprint customer agreements. It helps the customer to create new customer agreements, update previously entered customer agreements, reprint previously entered customer agreements, and enter required receiver information after installation is complete. Retailers are given User Name/Password and a unique Retailer ID using which they place order in RConnect. The Unique Retailer ID differentiates the Orders placed by different Retailers.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the review and analysis of the Functional Specifications, and Requirements Clarification Defects etc.  • Involved in the analysis and design of the initiatives.  • Involved in the development of the User Interfaces using HTML, JSP, JS, J-Query, CSS and AJAX.  • Involved in the presentation tier design as well as services layer, and prepared the class diagrams, sequence diagrams for the Repast enhancements.  • Involved in the design of the Presentation Tier, Services Layer etc. for all the initiatives.  • Prepared the Technical Design Document for both Presentation Tier, as well as Middle Layer.  • Involved in the development of the presentation tier using Spring MVC framework.  • Used Spring Tag Libraries, JSTL, and other in-house tag libraries.  • Participated in the test case reviews, and manual testing of the enhancements during Release 1.5.  • Used clear case for defect tracking as well as activity tracking.  • Involved in fixing the defects during integration testing.    Environment: HTML, JSP, JavaScript, J-Query, CSS, Ajax, RAD, TOAD, Struts, Servlets, Hibernate, Eclipse, Jboss, Tomcat. Education Bachelors of Technology in Computer Science and Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering West Bengal University of Technology Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Spring, Javabeans, Jaxb, Jboss, Jndi, Jrun, Jsp, Rmi, Servlets, Struts, Ui, Soap, Sdlc, Api, Html, Javascript, Visual basic, Java J2Ee, MVC, Angularjs, JEE, Hibernate Additional Information Technical Skills:    J2EE Technologies: JSP, Servlets, JavaBeans, Struts, Spring, JDBC, ODBC, JNDI, RMI, JSP Custom Tag Libraries, Tiles, XML (SAX & DOM), Java Mail API, JAXB, ANT, Maven, Applets, JUnit,CVS, SDLC    Web/App Servers: Web Logic 9.x/10.x, Tomcat 7.x/5.x/4.x, JRun, JBoss, Apache  IDE Tools: SQL Developer,Web Logic Studio 8.x/7.x, Eclipse 3.0/2.1.1,Spring STS,SOAP UI.  Web Services: XML, SOAP, WSDL, Apache AXIS ,Restful Webservices.  Data Bases: Oracle 8i/9i, DB2, SQL server, MS Access, Sybase ,Mongo DB.  Languages: Core Java, JavaScript, Visual Basic, PL/SQL, HTML, DHTML, XML.  Operating Systems: Windows 9x/NT/2000/XP, UNIX (Sun Solaris), Linux.