Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - Fifth third Bank Atlanta, GA • 8+ years of IT experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Support and Implementation Web based applications with JAVA/J2EE Technologies.  • Very strong conceptual and hands on programming skills on Threads, Multi-threading, Garbage Collections, exceptional handling, memory management, and OOPS Concepts in Core Java.  • Extensive experience in J2EE technologies such asJDBC,JSP, Servlets, JSF, EJB, RMI, JNDI, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Java standard tag library, custom taglibraries  • Developer for database development and interaction, using IDE's such as Eclipse and Net Beans  • Experience with various Spring modules such as Spring MVC, Spring Security, Spring AOP, Spring Core, Spring Auto Wiring and Spring Transaction using Spring framework with Hibernate as the back-end ORM tool.  • Hands on experience in developing applications using Model- View- Controller architecture and Spring framework.  • Experience in web development using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular JS, Node JS technologies.  • Developed applications based on MEAN Stack using Mongo DB, Express JS, Angular JS and Node JS.  • Experience in XML related technologies like XSD, DTD, XSLT, XPATH, DOM and parsed them using SAX Parser and DOM Parser.  • Worked on JMS - Java Messaging Service for reliable data flow between various Java technologies.  • Designed, Developed and implemented Java Web Services using XML, SOAP, REST, WSDL, Algorithms and UDDI.  • Experience with Service Oriented Architecture - SOA for Web Services using SOAP.  • Worked with Apache CXF to create Web Services.  • Integrated different systems using Apache Camel routing mechanism and provided end-to-end communication between the web services and enterprise services.  • Strong working knowledge of SQL, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, joins and triggers with databases like Oracle, DB2, and MS SQL Server.  • Worked with IBM Web Sphere, JBoss, Web logic application servers and Apache Tomcat web servers.  • Experience in using build tools like Ant, Maven and Jenkins.  • Hands on experience in writing Unit Tests using JUnit, TestNG, Mockito.  • Hands on experience with version control tools like CVS, SVN and GIT.  • Good knowledge and experience utilizing Agile-Scrum and Waterfall methodology.  • A self-motivated problem solver with a clear understanding of full software development lifecycle processes, team software development, software documentation.  • Strong experience in process development writing Technical reports, documents and status reports. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer Fifth third Bank - Atlanta, GA July 2015 to Present Description: Fifth Third Bank's Web application implements advanced Internet banking and transaction functionalities. The current application is a part of online banking that allows a customer to pay bills securely as well as enroll in monthly automatic recurring bill payment. The functionalities involved in e-bill payment are add a Payee, make a Payment, setup automatic payments, receive bills electronically, request E-mail notifications and review payments. The application also supports intra and interbank transfer of funds for a given customer.  Responsibilities:  • Actively participated in Managing team performance and progress and Training new team members and also participated in requirements gathering, analysis, design, development and testing phases, and responsible for the full stack development.  • Focused primarily on the MVC components such as Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers, Model and View Objects, View Resolver.  • Involved in development of REST Web Services using Spring MVC to extract client related data from databases and SOAPUI tool is used for testing Restful API web services.  • Implemented the Web Service client for the login authentication, credit reports and applicant information using JAX-WSand Apache Axis 2.  • Configured JDBC and LDAP security in the application server. Developed LDAP server configuration file to enable encryption support for password storage.  • Involved in creating the Hibernate POJO Objects and utilizing Hibernate Annotations.  • Parsed those XML messages using JAXB and then store the data into Oracle Database using Spring JDBC.  • Developed messaging module using Spring JMS and ActiveMQ.  • Used different phases of JSF lifecycle for client-side and server-side data validation.  • Developed user interface using HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, Ajax and Jquery  • Used JIRA to fix and track the workflow.  • Created web applications prototype using Angular JS, Node JS  • Worked on setting up JBOSS Fuse ESB and building and deploying applications to Fuse server.  • Participated in builds using Maven and CI(continuous integration) using Jenkins.  • Involved in the creation of exhaustive JUnit Unit Test Cases for each java class that is being developed for this application using a mocking framework Mockito using Test Driven Development technique.  • Following Agile practices to develop and deliver the requirements.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring MVC, REST, SOAP, Restful API, JAX-WS, Apache Axis 2, JDBC, LDAP, Hibernate, POJO, XML, JAXB, JMS, ActiveMQ, JSF, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Ajax, and Jquery, Angular JS, Node JS, JIRA, JBOSS, Maven Jenkins, JUnit, Mockito, AGILE Full Stack Java Developer Travelers Insurance - Saint Paul, MN February 2014 to May 2015 Description: Business Foundation System (BFS) is an insurance policy underwriting system under the Commercial Small Insurance vertical. This application provides quotes for customers and enables agents to issue and renew insurance. The underwriters can update with the new rates and edits. Property and liability, auto insurance, worker's compensation are the three lines of businesses supported by this application. It also interacts with some third party applications and has the facility of accepting quote requests from other vendors.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, design and development of e-bill payment system as well as account transfer system and developed specs that include Use Cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Activity Diagrams.  • Involved in using Core Java concepts - Collections, Exception Handling, Multi-Threading, Serialization.  • Created batch framework by using Spring Boot.  • Developed the application using Spring Framework that leverages classical Model View Layer (MVC) architecture.  • Created RESTful clients for various web-services involving both JSON and XML.  • Extensively used Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) to integrate widely disparate applications, that are Web based and uses multiple implementation platforms.  • Writing the enhancements and migrating the existing programs using Test Driven Development (TDD) software development process.  • Developed UI components and faces-config.xml file of JSF MVC framework.  • Used EJBs(Session beans) to implement the business logic, JMS for communication for sending updates to various other applications and MDB for routing priority requests.  • Used AJAXandJavaScript for validations and integrating business server side components on the client side with in the browser.  • Implemented the Project structure based on Spring MVCpattern using spring boot.  • Extensively used Spring JDBC in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection and used Apache Camel to integrate Spring framework.  • Involved in writing the ANTscripts to build and deploy the application.  • Involved in working in QA Automation Using Selenium.  • Writing Automation Test cases and fixing issues for regression test suite  • Implemented the application using Agile development methodology.  • Used XSL/XSLT for transforming and displaying reports. Developed Schemas for XML.  • Actively participated in the daily Scrum meetings to produce quality deliverables within time.    Environment: JAVA, J2EE, Core Java, Spring Boot, Spring Frame work, MVC, RESTful, JSON, XML, SOA, TDD, JSF, EJB, JMS, AJAX, JavaScript, Spring MVC, JDBC, Apache Camel, ANT, Selenium, AGILE-SCRUM.  C SPIRE - Atlanta, GA  March 2013 to December 2013  Description: The C Spire project "ActivePro" was aimed at delivering a web-based portal that can be used in retail stores across the country to sell products and services. The application provides activation and customer maintenance services. It is used at the retail location and customer care centers for the purpose of increase time available for the customer interaction and call reduction. It's a portal system to the legacy retail system and "one-stop-shop" customer account lending page, which provide all the important information associates with the customer account.  Responsibilities:  • Created User Interface (UI) to gather data and communicate with Business Layer by using Swing, HTML, JSP, JSP Tags Lib, JSTL and Java Script.  • Utilized AJAX to increase web page's interactivity, speed and functionality.  • Implemented MVC architecture using Spring MVC framework and enhanced the design using Stateless Session beans for the Middle Tier development.  • Utilized WSDL and SOAP to implement Web services in order to optimize performance by using remote model applications.  • Writing the enhancement and migrating the existing programs using Test Driven Development(TDD) software development process.  • Used JSF framework for implementing the Web tier of the application.  • Used JavaScript and JSF Primefaces validation framework for performing front-end validations.  • Involved in configuring WS Security, EJB Clustering and performance tuning and maintenance.  • Implemented Spring JMS message container listener to retrieve log objects from queue and send different destinations.  • Used Hibernate Query Language (HQL) in data access classes to implement basic persistent storage functions such as Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD)Application.  • Resolved database inconsistency with better design and efficient SQL queries.  • Used Agile Development Methodologies and rapidly delivered software.  Environment: JAVA, J2EE, HTML, JSP, Swing, JSP, JSTL, JavaScript, AJAX, Spring MVC, WSDL, SOAP, TDD, JSF Prime faces, WS Security, EJB, JMS, Hibernate, HQL, CRUD, SQL, JSTL, AGILE, Sr Java/J2EE Developer Gcom Software Inc - Albany, NY January 2012 to February 2013 Description: GCOM software specializes in meeting the technology needs of State & local governments. The UASNY project is for building an electronic uniform assessment system, which will be used for assessing the level of care needed. It will support 8 Medicaid programs. The system implements interRAI algorithms to determine a person's needs and eligibility for program services. The system will be residing on the NYS DOH created and managed web site called Health Commerce System (HCS). The project is executed in multiple iterations to better refine the requirements and the new process/workflow. Completely designed and developed to conform to the State's IT platform, the system utilizes J2EE technologies and standards.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in defining Hibernate mapping, HQL queries and in generating Data Access Objects.  • Used Spring Core with Java beans to implement business logic. Spring Dependency injection was used for wiring with beans.  • Developed Restful Web Services as End point to share the data with the other products using JSON as messaging medium.  • Used J2EE Servlets running on Tomcat;extensive multithreading and TCP/IP networking; Swing, Serialization, Collections API.  • Designed and developed the controller and view components using JSPsand Servlets and validators using JavaScript.  • Expertise with object oriented design (OOD), analysis (OOA), and modeling (OOM) based on Unified Modeling Language(UML) architecture using Rational Rose.  • Followed TDD, Scrum concepts of the Agile Methodology to produce high Quality Software.  • Application deployed in Linux servers using WebLogic on Red hat Linux5.0.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Hibernate, Spring Core, Dependency Injection, Auto wiring, Restful, JSON, Servlets, Apache Tomcat, Multi-Threading, TCP/IP, Collections, Swing, Serialization, JSP, JavaScript, OOD, OOA, UML, TDD, Agile/Scrum, Linux Java Developer Global Tele Systems May 2009 to November 2011 Description: Global Insurance System is software designed for a group of insurance agents, which supports the maintenance activities of Insurance Policies and their associated company details, their procedures in maintaining various types of policies, with the corresponding details of Policy holders, associated agents involved in the policy maintenance and etc.  Responsibilities:  • Developed Web interface using JSP, Standard Tag Libraries (JSTL).  • Developed different GUI screens using Swing, JSP, HTML, DHTML and CSS to design the user interface.  • Developed Action form beans, action classes for implementing business logic for the Struts Framework.  • Created Enterprise Java Beans (EJB's) and deployed them in the BEAN Web logic application server environment, to implement business logic and interface with back-end object-oriented database system.  • Involved in Developing and deploying the applications in IBM Web sphere application server.  • Extensively used DOM and SAX parsers for parsing XML data and XSLT for XML transformations parsers.  • Made extensive use of DWR Framework for AJAX to generate JavaScript to allow web browsers to securely call into Java code and vice versa.  Environment: JAVA, J2EE, JSP, JSTL, Swing, JSP, HTML, DHTML, CSS, Struts, EJB, Web Logic, IBM Web Sphere, DOM, SAX parser, XML, XSLT, AJAX, JavaScript. Java Developer Broadridge Financial Solutions - IN January 2008 to April 2009 Description: Xception Management is a business portal used as the supply chain event-monitoring tool for UBS customers. XM tracks key logistical events that are measured against predetermined benchmarks. If actual events exceed a defined performance standard, an exception alert is produced. While shipment status measures the actual movement of freight through the transportation pipeline, traffic lane analysis provides a historical review of shipments on file. Reports can be generated from a standard listing or the user may customize reports to address issues not covered by the standard reports.  Responsibilities:  • Procured the requirement from the client and prepared solution documents for an update on check status in case of out of court settlements.  • Analysis and fixing the beta defects in user acceptance testing.  • Involved in the development of Web Interface using MVC Struts framework.  • Development of the web tier components using HTML, CSS, JSP and JavaScript.  • Development and enhancement of the stored procedures and DAO classes.  • Created connections to database using Hibernate Session Factory, using Hibernate APIs to retrieve and store data to the database with Hibernate transaction control.  Environment: JAVA, J2EE, MVC Struts, HTML, CSS, JSP, JavaScript, DAO, Hibernate, Transaction Control. Education Bachelors of Technology in Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Kakinada - Kakinada, Andhra Pradesh