Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - The Home Depot Atlanta, GA • 8+ years of strong experience in Software development life cycle which includes Analysis, Design, Development, implementation, Testing and maintenance of Object Oriented and web applications using Java, J2EE technologies.  • Experience in design, develop and deploy web based application and client - server based application using J2EE (EJB, Servlets, JSP and JDBC) and Java Frame works such as Springs (IOC, AOP, MVC, DAO), Struts and Hibernate.  • Extensive working experience in working with N-Tier Architecture systems and development in application systems using JSP, Spring, JSF, Servlet, EJB, Web service (REST and SOAP), JMS and JDBC.  • Extensive ETL experience as well as experience manipulating large amount of data in traditional relational databases such as Oracle and MS SQL Server.  • Dexterous in applying design patterns such as Singleton, Session Facade, Service Locator, Front Controller and Data Access Object.  • Skilled in Web application development, Server side technology and also the deployment of application.Middleware development USING J2ee of IVR.  • Hands on experience in developing customized web based applications using HTML/HTML5, DHTML, CSS/CSS3, XML,VXML, GIT,JavaScript, AngularJS.  • Experience in passing SQL queries, Triggers and Packages using RDBMS Oracle (12c, 11g, 10g), MySQL, SQL Server and also in NoSQL Database such as Mongo DB.  • Has Good Knowledge on various front end technologies such as Node JS, Angular JS, d3.JS, AJAX and Java Script.  • Knowledge of various tools to facilitate XP development practices, such as agile project management planning and tracking, continuous build and integration, code review, code standards compliance, etc  • Used persistence frame work, Hibernate ORM to map POJO to Relation Database.  • Expertise in testing using JUnit Framework for integration and unit testing. Developed test case and test plans using JUnit testing, Integration testing and User acceptance testing  • Extensive developing experience in different IDE's like Eclipse, My Eclipse and Net Beans  • Proficient in deploying web based on application servers such as WebLogic, IBM WebSphere, JBOSS, and Apache Tomcat.  • Thorough knowledge of and extensive hands-on experience with Java technology stack, Including J2EE, application servers, such as Weblogic, JBoss, etc, IoC frameworks, such as Spring, ORM such as iBatis or Hibernate as well as RESTful web services.  • Very good knowledge in building Apache Maven/ANT scripts.  • Worked on various IDEs such as Eclipse, RAD, Webstrom and Net beans.  • Well versed in using Software methodologies like Agile methodology and Scrum software development process.  • Worked with version controls such as GIT and SVN.  • Experience in continuous integration tools like Jenkins and Hudson.  • Good ability to transform Business requirements into software requirements.  • Proficient in designing UML diagrams such as Use Case diagram, Sequence diagram, Activity diagram, Class diagram with exposure to UML tools such as Rational Rose and Rational Unified Process.  • Production support and technical support for critical issues.  • Good knowledge about domains such as Retail, Banking, Finance and Insurance. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java Developer The Home Depot - Atlanta, GA September 2014 to Present Description: Inventory Management system which is used to manage the customer orders and manage inventories in stores. The online shopping has become easier and simpler for the customer and users accessing the website. The project provides the updated availability of the goods and items for specific location based on the customer request. This is not only useful for the customers also by the managers and the employees of the store to manage the store inventory.    Responsibilities:  • Take business requirements and developed the total technical design on moderately complex projects and ensure proper usage as part of the design efforts in building a system to be put into production.  • Designed, planned and implemented solutions on assigned moderately complex projects.  • Conducted appropriate test reviews for assigned projects and present to architecture review boards as necessary.  • Developed standard web frameworks using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX.  • Designed applications with focus on web development (JSP, Servlet, JMS, JDBC, J2EE Security, Struts).  • Used standard web service development frameworks and methodologies (SOAP and RESTful).  • Designed standard SQL against DB2/UDB, Informix, mySQL or SQLServer.  • Migrated application from SVN to GIT.  • Established continuous integration (CI) practices and standards for PSCU with JIRA, Jenkins, Bamboo and Stash.  • Integrated process into build system which auto-generates REST API documentation from source code improving API documentation quality and availability while reducing maintenance costs.  • Used Angular JS as framework on top of HTML 5 and CSS 3.  • Using Node JS and NPM as dependency manager to manage all the dependencies.  • Developed JavaScript to rewrite the functionality from struts to angularJS.  • Used Jasmine as framework and karma as testing tool for TDD for JavaScript.  • Used Istanbul as coverage tool to monitor the percentage of code covered under TDD and ensured 100 % test cases.  • Developed Grunt file and JSON from managing all dependencies at one place and for continuous integration flow.  • Developed Spring boot application for writing web services.  • Used Java 8 Lambda expression for rewriting the code.  • Developed Restful web calls for calling web services.  • Implemented design patterns such as DAOs, DTOs, BO in Spring framework for achieving better coding standards.  • Used Swagger as medium for modifying the web services URL to feed the input to UI.  • Used Post Man to test the web service calls.  • Used Maven to build the whole application.  • Developed Jenkins job to deploy project automatically in QA and PR environments.  • Developed Sonar paths to ensure 100% test cases for Java.  • Deployed application war files into Apache Tomcat 7.0 server.  • Used Web storm as IDE for developing for Angular JS based project and Eclipse for java based applications.  • Set up Jenkins server and build jobs to provide continuous automated builds based on polling the GIT source control system during the day and periodic scheduled builds overnight to support development needs using Jenkins, GIT, JUNIT, Selenium and Maven.  Resolving tickets using Service Now and updating the status accordingly.  • Promoted and followed the established processes, policies, standards and procedures to assure compliance with corporate and regulatory policies and standards.  • Involved in forecast and replenishment type processes and/or applications..  • Developed Inventory Management type applications or development.    Environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, Agile, HTML, Spring, XML, Oracle 11g, Eclipse, ServiceNow, Teradata SQL, Multithreading, Java Batch, Jenkins, Swagger, Stash, Bamboo, Postman, Sonar Paths, Eclispse, JIRA, JUnit, Git, SubVersion Control, Tomcat, log4J, ANT Sr. Java Developer State farm - Bloomington, IL July 2013 to August 2014 Description: Progressive Insurance Services offer a wide range of insurance. This Auto Insurance Application allows customers to access their account online. This application provides employee to access customer information to process & authorize claims of the customers and generates free quotes for the customers depending on the type of insurance package they selected.    • Involved in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application, requirement gathering, and design analysis and code development.  • Developed front-end UI (User-Interface) with XML, HTML, CSS, NodeJS and AngularJs.  • Implemented JAXB and JAX-WS for building web-services and clients that communicate using XML.  • Implemented SWING to provide their own custom implementations.  • Implemented XSL, XSD, WSDL, and WADL to display the dynamic data in XML document.  • Developed a web application with AngularJS for behavior with directives, HTML5, CSS3 and also with the springMVC.  • Involved in implementing Business Process Management (BPM) to focus on improving the performance.  • Involves in implementing ext js that includes interoperability with JQuery and Prototype.  • Implemented spring batch framework to provide reusable functions.  • Used JDBC to provide the connection between java objects and relational databases.  • Used JPA to integrate Persistence with spring.  • Used JSF for multiple output patterns.  • Implemented JSP framework that enables the creation of platform-independent method for building web-based applications.  • Implemented JQuery to make the JavaScript much easier.  • Used AJAX to update the parts of web page without reloading the whole page.  • Implemented MONGODB for the operational intelligence.  • Used JSON for the serialization and transmission of data over the network.  • Used UNIX to run more than one program at once.  • Open a pop up window from list grid field and dynamic form field for adding, modifying and deleting a record from target list.  • Used Cassandra to provide the compatibility and performance for the projects.  • Used SOA for system software and application infrastructure.  • Used web services (REST & SOAP) to provide programs that can interact each other to deliver sophisticated services.  • Applied Event handler for handling event I.e. mouse hover, savedata, close window etc.  • Apache Ant was used for the entire build process.  • Used Subversion SVN as code repository and Source forge as Document Repository.  • Worked on Eclipse IDE to write the code and integrate the application    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSF, JDBC 3.0, Web Services, XML, JNDI, Hibernate 3.0, JMS, Spring 3.X, Web logic Application Server 8.1, jQuery, Maven, Eclipse, Oracle 10g, Win CVS 1.2, HTML, Rational Rose XDE, Junit 4.0, Log4j, Dojo, Ajax, Java Script 1.2, XML/XSLT, SAX, DOM. Java Developer Chase Bank - Houston, TX January 2012 to June 2013 Description: Credit Acquisition System is an automated multi-application system enabling prompt and accurate processing of loan and credit card applications to clients throughout the USA. This project consists of the modules such as Cards, Loan Processing, Credit Risk Management, Finance and Regulatory.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the application using Agile Methodology and followed Scrum, pair programming.  • Responsible for creating functional documents, technical documents, flow charts and data flow diagrams.  • Developed Spring Controllers, Service Components, DAOs, Web Services and UI Integration for processing the member request for two modules.  • Used Spring MVC Framework Dependency Injection for integrating various Java Components.  • Implemented J2EE standards, MVC architecture using Struts Framework.  • Implemented Servlets, JSP, JQuery and JavaScript to design the user interface.  • Designed an application using AngularJS and React JS.  • Used web socket protocol to provide full-duplex communication channels over a single TCP connection.  • Implemented Web Socket in web browsers or web servers for client or server application.  • Wrote Web Services (Data Services) using both REST and SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface.  • Implemented Spring Model View Controller (MVC) to dispatch the requests to handlers.  • Used Java Database Connectivity (JDBC) to access the tabular data stored in databases.  • Implemented Java Server Faces (JSF) to simplify the development user interfaces.  • Used EJBs (Stateless Session beans) to implement the business logic, MDBs (JMS) for asynchronous communication internal and external to the system.  • Used MONGODB, an open source database to provide high availability.  • Used SOA (Service-Oriented Architecture) to implement business logic for both synchronous and asynchronous applications.  • Helped UI to integrate the Java beans data using JSTL, Spring tags.  • Used ANT, Maven Scripts to build and deploy applications and worked closely with build team to resolve CI, Maven site and Report Issues.  • Unit Testing Java code using jUnit and Integrating with Jenkin.  • Used SOA (Service-Oriented Architecture) to implement business logic for both synchronous and asynchronous applications.  • Deployed Application in IBM Web Sphere application server 8.5.  • Wrote SQL queries and Stored Procedures for interacting with the Oracle database.  • Involved in testing and deployment of the application on WebLogic Application Server during integration and QA testing phase.  • Documentation of common problems prior to go-live and while actively in a Production Support.    Environment: Java, Agile, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services, Jersey, RESTFUL, SOAP, JDBC, JSP, HTML, JavaScript, jQuery, JDBC, XML, Log4j, JUnit, Putty, ANT, Jenkin, Maven, SPLUNK, SOAP UI, PMD, Rally, Eclipse, JAXP, UML, Shell Script, SVN, GIT, Oracle, UNIX, Web Logic, Windows. Java Developer IMedX Information Services - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN October 2010 to December 2011 Description: Medicaid Management Information system was developed to incorporate different software's such as CIMS (Coalition for Improving Maternity Services), ASSIST (Alcohol, Smoking and Substance Involvement Screening Test) into software. This software's determine state's money assistance, medical assistance, child care assistance programs.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for overall design & analysis of UI components and integration with existing J2EE.  • Used Spring Framework for MVC architecture.  • Front-end development using HTML, JSP, AJAX.  • Implemented the integration of Struts with Spring.  • Developed applications using Visual Studio 2005, C#, and a combination of Windows Services and ASP.Net enabled web sites.  • Written POJO Classes, Hibernate mapping files for Hibernate Object-To-Relational Mapping with various MVC frameworks.  • Implemented the integration with the back end system with web services using SOAP.  • Involved in integrating Web Services using WSDL and UDDI.  • Used Struts framework in UI designing (Tiles) and validations.  • Working with SQL Server including storage and manipulating data.  • Used SQL statements and procedures to fetch the data from the database.  • Used CVS as a documentation repository and version controlling tool.    Environment: Hibernate, Spring, J2EE, Servlets, HTML, JSP, AJAX, C#, CVS, UML, XML, XHTML, DHTML, JavaScript, CSS, XSL, Oracle 10g, SQL. Java Developer SQL Star International - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN July 2008 to September 2010 Description: SQL Star provides high-end IT Training to aspiring and practicing IT professionals as well as Corporate Executives. This site hosts and provides online student information for different courses. This site has been developed using Object Oriented Technologies via Java, JSP, Servlets and Java Beans. Students, Staff and the Administration of the institute, use the site. It provides information on Courses offered, Progress of the students, Daily Tests, Weekly Tests, Knowledge Support for students etc. Students can even provide feedback; seek fee details and other information.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modeling, analysis, design and development.  • Designed and developed various User Interface (UI) screens using Java Script and HTML.  • Developed the data base connection using JDBC.  • Developed and integrated in the UI components with backend using J2EE technologies such as Struts, JSP and JDBC.  • Implemented the presentation using Struts MVC framework.  • Developed Client user interfaces using JSP and Servlets.  • Involved in web services using Axis framework.  • Wrote queries, Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers with MySQL database.  • Java Script is used for client side validations.  • Involved in Development and Execution of Test Plans, Test Cases & Test Scripts by reviewing the business requirements document, and technical specifications document.  • Documented Test cases corresponding to business rules and other operating conditions.  • Used Log4j to log the errors.  • Experience in 24 *7 production Support after Go-Live.    Environment: Linux, MySQL 5.0, JDBC, Java, Servlets, Java Script, HTML, XML, Java Beans, Apache Tomcat, ANT Education Bachelor's Skills J2EE (8 years), Java (8 years), JSP (8 years), UI. (8 years), User-Interface (8 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Languages C, C++, Java, C#, Asp.net  Java Technologies J2EE, EJB 2.1/EJB 3, Java Bean, JDBC, Servlet  Web UI Technologies Java Script,XML,VXML HTML4/5, jQuery, CSS2/3, JSP  Web Services Technologies Soap UI 5.1/4.5, REST  Databases Oracle 10g/11g, MS SQL Server, TOAD  Application Server Web Sphere, JBOSS, Apache Tomcat  Logging Framework Log4j, Sl4j  Application Frameworks Struts 1.2/1.1, Spring 2.5, Hibernate, Java Batch  IDE Eclipse, Netbeans, Visual Studio  Build Tools Ant, Gradle, Maven  Testing Tools JUnit, jMock  Defect Tracking Tools Bugzilla  OS Windows, Linux, Mac