Splunk Developer Splunk <span class="hl">Developer</span> Splunk Developer - ExxonMobil Houston, TX • Having around 11 years of comprehensive Information Technology experience in both analytical and technical capacities as a Java Developer and Splunk Developer.  • Over 4 years of experience in Splunk solution design, architect, deployment and configuration of Splunk components.  • Developed and showed POC for customers in Splunk.  • Created Splunk Dashboards for Business and system performance monitoring.  • Developed Splunk infrastructure and related solutions as per automation toolsets.  • Installed, tested and deployed monitoring solutions with Splunk services.  • Implemented forwarder configuration, search heads and indexing.  • Knowledge on Configuration files in Splunk (props.conf, Transforms.conf, Output.confg)  • Worked on Capacity planning and license evolution for Enterprise Splunk instance.  • Built the new indexers and search head in Cluster environment on Linux platform with Splunk 5.5 version.  • Maintained and managed assigned systems, Splunk related issues and administrators.  • Analyzed and monitored incident management and incident resolution problems.  • Resolved configuration based issues in coordination with infrastructure support teams.  • Designed/Built and deployed Instances that indexed more than TB/Day.  • Expertise in the implementation of Core concepts of Java, J2EE Technologies: JSP, Servlets, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Java Beans, JDBC, XML, Web Services, Multi-Threading.  • Proven experience with Application Servers like IBM Web Sphere, Oracle/BEA Web Logic, JBoss and Tomcat.  • Excellent experience with major relational databases - Oracle, SQL Server 2000/2005/2008, DB2, My SQL  • Experienced with creating and executing complex SQL queries. Work Experience Splunk Developer ExxonMobil - Houston, TX September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed and implemented the Splunk solution.  • Using SPL created Visualizations to get the value out of data.  • Deploy, configure and maintain Splunk forwarder in different platforms.  • Analyzed security based events, risks and reporting instances  • Played a major role in understanding the logs, server data and brought an insight of the data for the users.  • Created a standalone Splunk instance for the development team  • Upgraded the development environment to 6.x version.  • Optimized Splunk for peak performance by splitting Splunk indexing and search activities across different machines.  • Communicate with peers and supervisors routinely, document work, meetings, and decisions    Environment: Unix, Splunk, HTML/XML, JavaScript, Microsoft Visio, Windows , JIRA, ServiceNow, Microsoft SharePoint. Splunk Analyst USPS - Raleigh, NC May 2015 to August 2018 Description:  Worked on the reporting capabilities of Splunk to gain critical insights into sales and transactional data getting generated from devices across United States    Responsibilities:  • Introduced Governance, Centralized License management for instance in the organization  • Installed , Configured and deployed Splunk.  • Built On demand custom applications and visualizations for business specific requirements  • Performed Health checks and maintained the License as well as deployment health  • Created and maintained Splunk knowledge repositories as a best practice  • Maintained and managed assigned systems, Splunk related issues and administrators  • Resolved configuration based issues in coordination with infrastructure support teams  • Implemented forwarder configuration , search heads and indexing  • Install, test and deploy monitoring solutions with splunk services  • Developed Splunk infrastructure and related solutions as per automation toolsets.  • Configure alerts for threshold set for each components of the contact center  • Create splunk application and deploy using Splunk Deployment server  • Created Logical data models to define business and project requirements of customer management and pipe sales as quoting system  Environment: Unix, windows 2008, HTML,Splunk,Linux Java developer Wells Fargo, CA December 2013 to April 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the requirements gathering. Design, Development, Unit testing and Bug fixing  • Developed application using Struts, Spring and Hibernate.  • Developed rich user interface using JavaScript, JSTL, CSS, JQuery and JSP's.  • Developed custom tags for implementing logic in JSP's.  • Used Java script, JQuery, JSTL, CSS and Struts 2 tags for developing the JSP'S.  • Used custom tags to display logic specific data in JSP'S.  • Involved in making release builds for deploying the application for test environments.  • Used Oracle database as backend database.  • Wrote SQL to update and create database tables.  • Used Putty for UNIX login to check the server logs.  • Used Eclipse as IDE.  • Used Web Logic as application server.  • Used AJAX and JSON for asynchronous call to the servers.  • Used SpringIOC for injecting the beans.  • Used Hibernate for connecting to the database and mapping the entities by using hibernate annotations.  • Designed and developed the persistence tier using Hibernate framework.  • Used Websphere data sources for the database connection and accessed using JNDI names.  • Developed a Stored Procedures for inserting and updating the tables of the database.  • Used Oracle as relational databases and created E-R diagrams for the database tables.  • Implemented Log4j to maintain system log.  • Managed the functional and load testing by interacting with the testers and providing them the guidelines and deadlines for completion of work.  • Directly interacted with the client application leads, to help them integrate their application with MNP.  • Eclipse was used for Rapid Development of the application.  • Build EAR using ANT tool.  • Used JUNIT for unit testing.  • Used Maven and Hudson as build tool and deploying the application.  • Implemented Find Bugs tool which reports the errors in the project.  • Used Spring JDBC template with hibernate to access the data from the database.  • Used SOAP UI for calling the Web-Services.    Environment: Java 1.5, Spring, Hibernate, Web sphere, Struts 2, JSP, SQL Developer, JQuery, CSS, Java Script, Maven, Eclipse, Find bugs, Putty, Design patterns, HTTP Java developer American Airlines - Dallas, TX April 2010 to November 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirement Analysis, designing, development and testing of the entire application.  • Experience in the development of Presentation layer using JSF, HTML, and CSS.  • Involved in development of presentation layer using JSF framework, and MVC design paradigm.  • Developed rich User Interface using AJAX Toolkit.  • Used Web Services using SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and JAX-WS programming model.  • Created the Presentation Layer, Business Logic Layer, DAO and Transfer Object using IBM Rational Application Developer.  • Developed application using JMS for sending and receiving Point-to-Point JMS Queue messages.  • Experience in using Data Access Objects (DAO), Session Facade, Business Delegate and Value Object patterns to increase the performance of the system.  • Experience in using Hibernate for object-relational mapping and for database operations in DB2.  • Used JUnit for testing the application, Maven for building Projects.  • Involved in configuring JMS and JNDI in rational application developer (RAD).  • Used IBM MQSeries for messaging services to various branches.  • Created UML diagrams like Class diagrams, sequence diagrams, Activity diagram using Rational Rose. Agile methodologies like scrum were used.    Environment: JAVA, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Struts Framework, JDBC, ANT, HTML, , JavaScript, Oracle 9i, WebLogic Server 8.1, Log 4j. Java developer Quest Diagnostics, OH June 2008 to March 2010 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of SDLC including requirement gathering, modeling, analysis, testing, architecture designs and development.  • Developed web Components using JSP, Servlets,EJB's Server side components using Spring framework.  • Worked on developing automated test-suite for testing web services using JUnit framework.  • Created a web service to monitor the performance for all the WebServices.  • Extensively worked on SOAP-WS security and REST HTTP header to create security element tags in the SOAP header.  • Used Rational Rose for developing Use case diagrams, Activity flow diagrams, Class diagrams and Object diagrams in the design phase.  • Extensively used agile development methodology and project planning.  • Used JSF 1.2 Framework in the application which is based on the MVC design pattern.  • Implemented automatic/dynamic text filling support using AJAX/JSF components.  • Used Hibernate3.0 in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Used Spring 2.0 Framework for DI (Dependency injection) and integrated with Hibernate and JSF.  • Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML file that contains declarations and other dependent objects declaration.  • Actively involved in designing and implementing Singleton and Front Controller, Service Locator, Business Delegate and Data Access Object design patterns.  • Analyzed the requirements and provided inputs to the designer.  • Designed Class diagrams, framework and developed using Factory, DAO, Singleton and MVC pattern.  • Developed the business tier using Core Java and the HTTP interfaces using Servlets.  • Involved in review of the design and helped in transforming the application to an optimized solution framework.  • Designed the helper classes for better data exchange between the MVC layers.  • JSP, HTML, Javascript, CSS and Ajax used for front end development.  • Implemented Collections API to manage Java Objects in Business Logic layer.  • Built the admin module using Struts framework for the master configuration.  • Implementation of DistrubutedMap using DnyaCache for implementing the distributed cache on a clustered environment.  • Responsible for managing scope, planning, tracking, change control, aspects of the CORE platform area of eCommerce applications.  • Worked with multithreading in synchronized environment.  • Involved in writing EJBs (Stateless Session Beans) and Web Services for building the middleware distributed components and deployed them on application servers.  • Used Oracle with the functionalities of the Database Administrator as the backend database using Windows NT OS.    Environment: Java, JSP, HTML, CSS, Ajax, JavaScript, Servlets, log4j, Web Services, Junit, XML, XSLT, JDBC, SQL, Spring MVC, Hibernate 3.0, Eclipse, Oracle. Education Bachelor's Skills Microsoft visual studio, Visual studio, C++, Html, Javascript, Reporting tools, Scripting, Visio, Xml, Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Sql, Css, Shell scripting, Unix, Splunk, Jira Additional Information Technical Expertise:    LANGUAGES C,C++,SQL, core java, J2EE, Shell Scripting  DESIGN UML(Use cases, Class Diagrams ,Sequence Diagrams), Microsoft Visio  RDBMS MS SQL 2008, Oracle 9i, Oracle 10g  WEB & CLIENT-SERVER TECHNOLOGIES HTML, JavaScript, TCP/IP, Shell Script  OPERATING SYSTEM Windows, Unix, Mac OSX  TOOLS Eclipse 3.1, TOAD 7.6, Squi Eclipse Microsoft Visual Studio 2008, 2012, JIRA, Eclipse  FUNCTIONAL EXPERIENCE Project Management, IT Service Management.  REPORTING TOOLS Splunk 6.0, ServiceNow  MARKUP LANGUAGES HTML, CSS, XML