Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Verizon San Jose, CA ? Over 7 years of professional experience in comprehensive analysis, design, coding in Core Java, Web Development, Multi-tier enterprise applications using Java/J2EE  ? Involved in different phases of Software Development Life Cycle(SDLC) like analysis, design, development and testing with SOA, Amazon Web Service(AWS) and Microservices architectures  ? Extensive experience in design, development and implementation of Spring and Hibernate frameworks  ? Developed web tier components of web stores using Spring Web MVC framework/Struts Framework that leverages Model View Controller (MVC) architecture  ? Used Spring dependency injection for middle layer development  ? Developed DAOs(Data Access Object) using Hibernate as ORM to interact with DBMS - Oracle, Mysql and MongoDB  ? Integrated Hibernate in context files and configured Hibernate sessionfactory  ? Developed Internet/Intranet and Client/Server applications using Java and J2EE technologies like JSP, Servlets, JavaBeans, Javascript, HTML, XML  ? Designed and developed user-friendly GUI interface and web pages using HTML, CSS, Jquery and Javascript  ? Thorough knowledge of Microservices architecture and experience in implementing several design patterns  ? Designed and implemented RESTful Webservices using Spring Rest and JAX-RS  ? Experienced in deploying Web Application and configuring data source to IBM Websphere and servers like Tomcat  ? Coded Maven build scripts to build and deploy the application  ? Extensive development experience with IDE's like IDEA, Eclipse, RAD, Spring tool suite and NetBeans  ? Experienced in Application Software Development and Design, Object Oriented Design and Analysis(OOAD), technical documentation, debugging  ? Designed and developed Servlets to store the details of the users in the database  ? Utilized JDBC API to access a database of reusable design components  ? Managed the platform over the years through agile, scrum and waterfall practices  ? Basic ideas of creating, optimizing and editing web content  ? Self-motivated, good team member with excellent analytical, communication & problem solving skills with ability to work independently as well as in a team Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer Verizon - San Jose, CA July 2016 to Present US    My Verizon Online can be registered by all Verizon Wireless customers, to sign in and use products and services. As long as you have a Verizon Wireless phone number, you can register your profile, log in, and start using many online services. Additionally, if you are responsible for payments on your personal account, you can register as an account owner to manage your account online. Verizon Wireless is currently providing the My Verizon Online service at no cost to the customers.    Responsibilities:  ? Analyzed business requirements and existing software for High Level Design  ? Worked in an agile development process, monthly Sprint and daily Scrum  ? Used spring framework for building the application based on MVC design paradigm  ? Developed JSPs, Servlets and custom tags for creating user interfaces  ? Developed Business logic with the help of Spring and Data Access was implemented using Hibernate  ? Developed SQL queries and executed them by using JDBC Template provided by Spring  ? Developed HQL queries to retrieve data using Hibernate. The Data Manipulation operations were implemented using Hibernate Template provided by Spring  ? Implemented OR Mapping with the tables in the Oracle database for one-to-one relation and many-to-one relation with the tables  ? Developed unit and integration tests for existing microservices using JUnit  ? Backend Integration testing of microservices: thrift backend as well as API services  ? Modified existing applications to a suite of micro services and dockerized all microservices to facilitate deployment and distribution under any environment in the cloud  ? Developed REST services using Spring and Used JAXB API for XML parsing  ? Did Packaging and Deployment of builds through ANT script  ? Worked with NoSQL database MongoDB and worked with it to perform many different operations  ? Experience in managing MongoDB environment from availability, performance and scalability perspectives  ? Design and Develop REST APIs to perform transactions in MongoDB  ? Wrote services to store and retrieve user data from the MongoDB for the application on devices  ? Used Log4j for tracking the applications and Used Star Team as version control tool  ? Consumed and created REST Web services for Quick Quote Details  ? Involved in exposing, consuming and packaging Web services using Spring Framework  ? Involved in the code review process and updating the best practices document  ? Conducted Testing and Evaluation of projects at established integration points to assess progress and identify key functionality issues    Environment: Java, Jersey REST, Oracle, Spring MVC, IOC, Hibernate, Scrum, NoSql, ANT, SVN, Putty. Java Developer Conduent - Baltimore, MD January 2016 to June 2016 US    E-ZPass is an electronic toll collection (ETC) system that allows you to prepay your tolls, eliminating the need to stop at the toll plaza. The system has three components: a toll tag which is placed inside your vehicle, an overhead antenna which reads the toll tag and collects the toll and video cameras to identify toll evaders. The E-ZPass system maintains your usage and account balance. An account statement itemizing your toll usage and account balance will be sent to you through the mail or emailed to you.    Responsibilities:  ? Redesigning the EZ-Pass website to be feasible with html5 and functionality changes according to client requirement  ? Developed application using J2EE architecture with Spring and Hibernate using concrete principles laid down by design patterns  ? Experience with AWS CodeCommit & CodeDeploy  ? Used Jenkins as an AWS code deploy plugin to deploy to AWS  ? Deployed and monitored scalable infrastructure on Amazon Web Services (AWS )  ? Extensively used Core Spring Framework for Dependency Injections of components  ? Development of core components of a web site application using J2EE, EJB, Hibernate, SQL/PLSQL  ? Design and architectural decisions for a multi-tier reusable service based J2EE application  ? Responsible for build and release the code  ? Developed JUnit test cases for all the developed modules  ? Agile/SCRUM was used as the project management methodology  ? Conducting Peer reviews and Independent Testing    Environment: Core Java, JSP, JSON, Servlets, EJB 2.0, Hibernate, Oracle, Spring, Web services, Javascript, Eclipse, SVN, WebSphere. Java Developer Metlife - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN July 2015 to November 2015 Hyderabad, Telangana, India    Global L3 project is to implement new features and enhancements for MetLife.com and its subsidiary applications in Agile methodology. It is also used to maintain the user experience and add additional features for multiple Web sites like MetLife.com, Australia, UK, Chile, Mexico, China and India Sites.    Responsibilities:  ? Performed analysis, design, develop and maintain the modules  ? Replaced old GSA with new GSA in-house application  ? Involved in unit, integration and smoke testing and bug fixing  ? Ensure code quality using Junit testing  ? Involved in Development of the application Using J2EE Technologies (Servlets, JSP, EJB, JSF, Struts)  ? Developed online web portal that used Java, JSF and PL/SQL queries  ? Extensive experience in using JSF  ? Exported excel data to Soap webservice using Jackson API and Apache POI  ? Handle security issues from Whitehat by modifying the application  ? Prepare monthly deck reports  ? Production support  ? Handle browser compatibility issues  ? Add log to an application  ? Handle server and CMS issues (Analysing issue and contacting respective team using remedy tool to fix it)  ? Handle CMS and adding/deleting users from TCM    Environment: Java/J2EE, Tridion 2011 SP1, Struts MVC, Hibernate, REST, SOAP Web services, Oracle, JavaScript, JQuery, RAD 7.5.0, Build forge, WPS, JSF, Star team, Jackson, Apache POI. Java Developer Metlife - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN September 2014 to June 2015 Hyderabad, Telangana  BAU Continuous Development project is to implement new features and enhancements for MetLife.com and its subsidiary applications in Agile methodology. It is used to enhance the user experience and add additional features for multiple Web sites like MetLife.com, Australia, UK, Chile and Mexico.    Responsibilities:  ? Performed analysis, design, develop and maintain the modules  ? Executed project in Agile Fixed bid sprint model to provide business requirements faster  ? Integrated siteminder authentication with application framework  ? Involved in unit, Integration and smoke testing and bug fixing  ? Ensure code quality using Junit testing  ? Handle vulnerability issues from VeraCode and Whitehat    Environment: Java/J2EE, Tridion 2011 SP1, Struts MVC, Hibernate 3, REST, SOAP Web services, Oracle, JavaScript, JQuery, RAD 7.5.0, Build forge, WPS, Star team. Java Developer Metlife - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN December 2013 to August 2014 Hyderabad, Telangana    MetLife Agricultural Investments portfolio currently contains approximately 4,500 active loans and 4,000 primary borrowers. Any information related to the borrower or borrower's' loan can only be obtained by reviewing their paper documents or by calling a MetLife Agricultural Investments associate. Furthermore, any future attempt to offer paperless services to these and future borrowers, such as billing and account statements, is hindered by the lack of a secure online medium to make such content available to the borrower.  Agloans.com motive is to increase MetLife's reputation as an agricultural lender by providing an online medium to host information and services. Since so much of our business is repeat business and referrals, it is important to have as many avenues as possible to communicate with our existing borrower base. Reduce calls to regional offices as borrowers will be able to independently look up basic loan info.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in development of application  ? Integrated siteminder authentication with application framework  ? Involved in unit, Integration and smoke testing and bug fixing  ? Involved in production release    Environment: Java/J2EE, Tridion 2011 SP1, Spring MVC, Hibernate 3, REST, SOAP Web services, Oracle, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, RAD 7.5.0, Build forge, WAS, Star team. Java Developer Myntra - Bangalore, Karnataka May 2011 to November 2013 Bangalore, India    Developed an internal inventory management system that can search for availability of a product in inventory, create a new product and procure it, maintain vendor list. The system implemented security features with proper authentication of roles having different privileges. Members can request additional privileges.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed and implemented Web Services  ? Developed web presentation layer using jQuery, HTML and CSS according to internal standards and guidelines  ? Developed the Action Classes, Action Form Classes, created JSPs and configured in Web.xml files  ? Involved in detail design developing use cases, use case diagrams, class diagrams, sequence diagrams and high level activity diagrams using UML from the requirements    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, XML, XSLT, SOAP Web Services, JSON, EJB, SQL, JUnit, JSF, JDBC, JDK, Oracle, PL/SQL, Struts MVC. Program Analyst State Bank of India - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN June 2009 to May 2011 Hyderabad, Telangana    State Bank of India Online portal application involves calculating all customer account details like interest, monthly average balance, statements. This Application has various modules including Core UI, Core Components, Pay Staging, Cost Projection, Imports-Exports, Bill Payments and Allowances.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in gathering requirements and built the technical specifications from the requirements  ? Developed use case diagrams, sequence diagrams using Visio  ? Developed Presentation layer using HTML, CSS, AJAX, JQuery  ? Developed Web services (SOAP) through WSDL and RESTful Web services to interact with other components  ? Written SQL queries for CRUD operations  ? Involved in Unit Testing, Integration Testing and System Testing, used JUnit framework  ? Used Log4j to store log messages  ? Used SVN for version control  ? Worked on production issues    Environment: Java, J2EE, JavaScript, Servlets, RAD, WebSphere, JDBC, EJB, ANT, Junit, CSS, AJAX, JQuery, XML, XSLT, SOAP, SVN, SQl, Pl/SQL, Oracle, Windows. Education Bachelor of Technology in Electronics And Communication Engineering VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology JNTU - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN Skills JAVA (8 years), ORACLE (8 years), JUNIT (7 years), J2EE (6 years), JAVASCRIPT (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages: Core Java, J2EE/Servlets  Database: Oracle, PL/SQL, MySql, MongoDB  Java Technologies: JSP, Servlets, EJB, JDBC, Spring-Boot, Jackson, SAX, Apache POI, Rest/Soap  Web Technologies: XML, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Javascript, AngularJS  Framework: Spring, Hibernate, JSF, Struts  Application Servers: Tomcat , WAS 5.0, WAS 6.1, WPS  Software IDE: RAD 8.0,Oracle JDeveloper 10g (10.1.3), IntelliJ, Eclipse, Spring Tool Suite  Tools: Maven, JUnit, Jenkins, JIRA, Star Team, GitHub  Methodologies: Waterfall, Agile, Scrum  CMS: Tridion CMS, WCM  Operating System: Windows, Unix/Linux