Sr. Full Stack Java Developer Sr. Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Full Stack Java Developer - Aegistech Inc Queens, NY • Over 11+ years of professional IT working experience in analysis, design, development, testing and supporting Business applications, Web-based and n-tier applications using strong technical knowledge in Core Java and J2EE technologies.  • Expertise in full software development lifecycle (SDLC) from analysis, design, development, testing and maintenance.  • Strong knowledge and working experience in Object Oriented Concepts, Object Oriented Design (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis (OOA), Programming and its implementation.  • Expertise in developing enterprise applications using Java and J2EE technologies such as Collections, Multithreading, Java beans, JMS, JSP, Servlet, Design Patterns, JDBC, Struts2, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services, Microservices, JSTL, XML, SQL, JUnit, Log4J, REST, ESB and SOA.  • Worked on Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) such as Apache Axis web services which use SOAP, WSDL. Exposure to JAXB & JAX-WS.  • Expertise in implementing spring framework for Dependency Injection, support for the Data Access Object (DAO) pattern.  • Expertise in various components in Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring Boot, Spring Security, Spring MVC (Model View Controller) architecture and Spring JDBC.  • Worked on Struts open source java framework utilizing Struts Tiles, Struts Controllers (Actions and Forms) and client server validations.  • Good work experience on RDBMS like Oracle and MySQL. Creating SQL statements & Sub queries and with non-relational databases (NoSQL) like MongoDB.  • Hands on Experience in JDBC and Object Relational mapping (ORM) tools like HIBERNATE for persisting data to different relational databases.  • Experience in the design and development of SOAP and Restful web services using WSDL, CXF2, JAX-WS and JAX-RS.  • Build Restful API for accessing and manipulating employees, events, and alerts using NodeJS. Implemented  • Developed the front-end components of the application - order capture screens, using Angular JS proxied using the NodeJS.  • Experience in designing front end interfaces using HTML, CSS, Java Script, JQuery, Ajax, Boot Strap and AngularJS framework.  • Experience in developing single page applications using AngularJS and Bootstrap.  • Excellent experience in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using SOAP, REST, WSDL and JAXB.  • Built the modules of the applications using Spring Boot.  • Strong Experience in working with Databases like Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL, DB2 and SQL Server and proficiency in writing complex SQL, PL/SQL for creating tables, views, indexes, stored procedures and functions.  • Expertise in build scripts like Maven, ANT and build automation.  • Experience in using Hadoop technologies such as Map Reduce, Pig and Hive scripting.  • Highly Capable in learning things quickly and good at time management.  • Exposure to UNIX commands and Linux.  • Excellent analytical, problem solving and interpersonal skills. Ability to learn new concepts fast. Consistent team player with excellent communication skills Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Full Stack Java Developer Aegistech Inc - New York, NY May 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Used JQuery to make the frontend components interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Used Spring MVC, IOC and AOP to develop intranet web application.  • Developed custom filters to intercept all the requests.  • Developed Java and EJB in Mainframe DB2 environment.  • Generated a complete maven project structure and added dependencies, plug-in to pom.xml.  • Used ESB architecture for designing communication among different applications.  • Worked with Java Executor Framework to develop Multi-threading applications.  • Used TOAD for database query testing, in the process of optimizing the queries.  • Involved in the configuration management using CVS and GIT.  • Used MySQL for users related data, MongoDB for products information data, AWS S3 for images and files data.  • Used AngularJS to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server. Created Microservices using Spring Framework.  • Create complex JIRA workflows including project workflows, field configurations, screen schemes, permission schemes and notification schemes.  • Designed and developed required WSDL and XSD for the services.  • Worked within a massive multi-tiered system architecture comprised of a client layer, a delivery layer, an API layer, and a microservices layer.  • Established specifications and processes for clear communication with overseas vendors during the product development and manufacturing stages.  • Wrote services to store and retrieve user data from the MongoDB for the application on devices.  • Developed the presentation layer using Java Server Pages (JSP), Tiles, Ajax and Java Script.  • Developed static and dynamic Web Pages using JSP, HTML, HTML5 and CSS.  • Writing UNIX shell scripts for batch processing.  • Jenkins based Automating deployment systems. It enables one-button click to build and deploy to specified stage.  • Worked on JUnit for unit testing and Protractor tests for end to end testing in UI.  • Analyzed the Maven dependency management in base code in order to annotate the dependencies on to Spring Boot application in to Gradle for Microservices.  • Developed JSP pages and Servlets for customer maintenance and use AngularJS.  • Used Ant for developing build scripts and deploying the application onto Web Logic.    Environment: Java 1.7/1.8, J2EE 1.6, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JQuery, JavaScript 1.7, JSP 2.1, JBoss , Spring, Spring Batch, Spring web services, Spring Boot, RESTFUL, microservices, Hibernate, AngularJS, Angular 2, NodeJS, SOAP, Postman, XSD, XML , UML 2.0, JUNIT, WebSphere Application Server 8.5, Maven 2.0, DB2, MongoDB , NoSQL, JDBC, Spring JMS, Apache Active MQ, Log4j, JSON, UNIX, Putty, RAD, STS, IBM MQ Series, Linux, SVN, Hudson, Jenkins, Git Hub. Sr. Java/J2ee Developer OOPS and Exception Handling - Dallas, TX January 2015 to April 2018 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for the analysis, documenting the requirements and architecting the application based on J2EE standards.  • Extensively used core java concepts like collection frame work, multi-threading, OOPS and Exception Handling.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, DHTML, CSS3, BOOTSTRAP and JavaScript.  • Used Hibernate, object relational-mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with SQL-based scheme.  • Developed the JQuery callback functions to implement asynchronous communication using AJAX.  • Used the Java Collections API extensively in the application as security protection for XML, SOAP, REST and JSON to make a secure Web Deployment.  • Used Core Spring for setter dependency injections.  • Writing end-to-end flow i.e. controllers classes, service classes, DAOs classes as per the Spring MVC design and writing business logics using core java API and data structures.  • Involved in developing web pages using AngularJS Framework and familiar with various AngularJS directives and services.  • Developed various Action classes and Form bean classes using Struts framework.  • Developed the Business layer using Spring Boot and JTA. Spring Boot for creating REST Web Services.  • Used AngularJS as frameworks to create single page applications (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server using Sass, Less, Bootstrap, AngularJS.  • Responsible for Web UI development in JavaScript using JQuery, AngularJS and AJAX.  • Developing Intranet Web Application using J2EE architecture, using JSP to design the user interfaces and Hibernate for database connectivity.  • Developed microservices with Spring Boot.  • Developed microservices at Business case level and tested them with Postman.  • Development of Hibernate objects for data fetching for batch and front-end processing.  • Responsible for secure batch data flow to downstream systems using Middleware Java technologies.  • Developed Mean Stack from scratch including MongoDB server (Mongoose Connector) setup and Express JS server development.  • Developed drag and drop document editing using ReactJS  • Experience in developing the web applications with web frameworks such as J2EE and Angular2.0  • Utilized JavaScript Frameworks AngularJS 2.0, NodeJS  • Built backend REST API with NodeJS, Express JS and also Implemented modules into NodeJS to integrate with designs and requirement.  • Implemented different Design patterns like DAO, Singleton Pattern and MVC architectural design pattern of spring framework.  • Interfaced with the NoSQL MongoDB back-end database by integrating spring with Hibernate.  • Building RESTful services using Microservices architecture with tools such as Spring-boot.  • Designed and developed the new features in the existing application to meet the customer's satisfaction.  • Designed and developed the user interface screens, data base design changes and changes to user access modules.  • Designed and implemented RESTful APIs using Spring Boot, Spring MVC and NoSQL database MongoDB that persists ADP system level configuration data.  • Involved in writing Oracle PL/SQL Stored procedures, triggers and views.  • AWS is used to coordinate and manage the delivery of messages to the subscribers. Client side validations and server side validations are done according to the business needs.  • Wrote JUNIT test cases for web servers.  • Written test cases and done Unit testing execution with JASMINE and KARMA.  • Involved with Sprint Planning, Sprint grooming, Allocation of User Stories using Jira.  • Used Log4J API for logging and debugging.  Environment: Java 1.7, J2EE, JSP, Spring 4.0,Spring Boot, AWS, Microservices, Apache Mesos Marathon, Docker Swarn, AngularJS, Hibernate 4.1, JMS, XML, REST, WSDL, AJAX, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, JQuery, CSS, GIT, Log4J, JAXB, Pig, Hive, Hadoop JUnit3.8, WebLogic 10.3.5, Eclipse Indigo, Oracle 10g, Spring boot. Java Developer Fiserv - Lake Mary, FL April 2012 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in all the phases of SDLC including Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications, Implementation, code development and testing.  • Worked on server side implementation using spring core and spring annotations, provided navigation from presentation to other layers using Spring MVC and integrated spring with Hibernate using Hibernate template to implement persistent layer.  • Implemented Spring JMS message container listener to retrieve log objects from queue and send to different destinations.  • Implemented, configured spring message sources, resource bundles for labels, message properties for internationalization.  • Implemented centralized dispatch controller to pass incoming request to helper classes using Spring MVC annotations, custom annotations and java reflection technology.  • Extensively developed RESTful Web services to perform several activities such as sending and retrieving data from external interfaces.  • Used Rest API with JAX-RS for consuming web services to handle two interfaces XML and JSON.  • Also, involved in developing and consuming SOAP web services using JAX-WS to interact between different applications.  • Used HTML5, CSS, jQuery, and Angular JS for all front end development.  • Developed UI with HTML and JavaScript for more interactive web pages and developed appropriate styles, colors and font icons using CSS3.  • Developed stored procedures to implement business logic and called from hibernate using Callable statements.  • Implemented Hibernate second level of caching using configuration files and EHcache provider.  • Used Angular JS as a framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) that can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  • Practiced test-driven development using Junit and mocking frame works like Easy Mock.  • Implemented cross-domain calls using JQuery, implemented call back functions to handle JSON responses.  • Database development required creation of new tables, PL/SQL stored procedures, functions, views, indexes and constraints, triggers and required SQL tuning to reduce the response time in the application.  • Configured and used Maven scripts to deploy multi module applications into Jenkins, configure sonar check styles, Emma plug-in, and get HTML reports.  • Used Firebug for web security testing and Jira for tracking the defects.  • Testing and production support of core java based multithreading ETL tool for loading of XML data into Oracle11g database using JPA/Hibernate.  Environment: Java/J2EE, spring, Spring MVC, Hibernate, JMS, RESTful, SOAP web services, Oracle 11g, Junit, JSF, HTML5, CSS, Angular JS, Maven, XML, JSON, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, Easy Mock, JPA , log4j, Jira, Jenkins. Java/J2EE Developer Mayo Clinic - Minneapolis, MN January 2011 to March 2012 Description: Mayo provides cloud - based, healthcare technology solutions that help consumers & businesses connect, communicate and engage with health plans in an undemanding and informed manner when acquiring health insurance. Barack Obama administration's Patient Protection and Affordable Care act of 2010 (PPACA) requires states to implement health exchanges and mayo is working on the same platform.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Experienced in performing extensive analysis and design by working on projects of all sizes that require exposure to all aspects of the project life cycle and creating and maintaining documentation in conformance with established standards.  • Designed various UI screens required for the ticket information and bookings. Used Struts MVC at presentation layers. Development front-end content using JSP, Servlets, DHTML, Java Script, CSS, HTML.  • Implemented Spring Beans using IOC and Transaction management features to handle the transactions and business logic. Integrated the Struts framework and the Spring framework together.  • Extensive use of Struts Framework for Controller components and View components.  • Created and maintained Simulator using Spring Source Tool Suite.  • Developing application using Spring MVC, Dependency Injection to improve usability and flexibility. UsedSpring JDBC Template and implemented DAO Design Pattern to connect and retrieving data. Developed the application using the Stripes framework and worked as a part of developing the most of the action bean classes.  • Implemented Data Access Layer using Ibatis, developed POJO's mapped to the relational tables in database using Ibatis mapping files. Worked on Oracle as the backend database and used Ibatis to automate the mapping between the SQL Databases and the Java Objects.  • Constructed database objects like Packages, Procedures, Functions, Batches, SQL Queries, Views, Indexes, and Exceptions using Toad. Wrote PL/SQL stored procedures for Oracle database.  • Created SOAP web service for sending payment processing informational data to third company. Followed top down approach to implement SOAP based web services. Tested SOAP web services using SOAP UI.  • Used Java Mailing or Messaging Service (JMS) API's for mailing detailed notifications depending upon the success and failure once the backend process is complete and also for mailing administrator of any system related problems.  • Configured WebLogic Application Server and participated in structured code reviews / walkthroughs. Support installation of application releases into production as directed.  • Used Jira for tracking bugs and used Gradle with Jenkins for building and deploying the application to multiple environments and created Daily Rolling Log using Log4j.  • Used Microsoft Visual Explorer for Agile Methodology and Used NetBeans IDE. Used TOAD for database query testing, in the process of optimizing the queries.  • Worked on Construction (Changes in Code), Unit testing and Test Result. Responsible for unit testing and integration testing, bugs fixing, handling change requests.  • Developed Junit test cases for test coverage of the application andImplemented Unit and Integration test cases with JUNIT Framework based on Functional Flow.    Environment: J2EE,JSP, Servlets, DHTML, Java Script, CSS, HTML, Spring, Struts, ibatis, SOAP based WebServices,Oracle, PL/SQL, Toad 9.6.1, JUnit, Jquery, Oracle, PL/SQL, SQL Navigator, SVN ,Gradle 2.4and WebLogic Server. Java Developer Experian Interactive Media - Los Angeles, CA February 2008 to December 2010 Description: Experian Interactive Media manages online lead-generation brands. The company connects consumers with service providers that offer various rates on home loans, auto insurance, auto loans, life insurance and other recurring monthly bills. Experian promotes greater financial health and opportunity among consumers by enabling them to understand, manage and protect their personal information, helping them control financial aspects of key life events, and make the most advantageous financial and purchasing decisions.  Responsibilities:  • Analyzed and extracted the event flows of the UI layer code written in JavaScript, struts, java applets and JSPs to come up with the sequence diagram for various transactions.  • Developed Pop-in Dialog JSPs and passing Request Parameters using JavaScript, Jquery, JSTL.  • UI Implementation with Struts, JavaScript, Struts Validation framework on MyEclipse IDE. Applied Struts features like Tiles and Validation framework.  • Designed and implemented Struts (MVC Paradigm) components such as Action Mapping, Action class, Dispatch action class, Action Form bean, and a form set for validation.  • UI Implementation with Struts, JavaScript, Struts Validation framework on MyEclipse IDE. Applied Struts features like Tiles and Validation framework.  • Designed and implemented Struts (MVC Paradigm) components such as Action Mapping, Action class, Dispatch action class, Action Form bean, and a form set for validation.  • Implemented MVC architecture by using Struts/Swings to send and receive the data from front-end to business layer.  • Integrated the Struts and Hibernate to achieve Object relational mapping. Used apache struts to develop the web-based components and implemented DAO.  • Leveraged struts-validations, struts-beans tag libraries.Used struts Action Servlet to route the request to corresponding Action Classes.  • Developed Action forms, Action classes using Struts framework to handle user requests and Implemented Struts Bean Tags, Logical Tags and Display Tags in JSPs.  • Involved in the development modules using Flex 3.0, Action Script and integrating with J2EE layer using Blaze DS and Spring MVC frame work.  • Involved in development of server side modules using SpringMVC, SpringIOC, Spring AOP, and AspectJ.  • Developed application using Struts, JSP, JSTL and AJAX on the presentation layer, the business layer is built using spring and the persistent layer uses Hibernate.  • Developed stored procedures, triggers, functions for the application.Analyzed the DAO and persistence layers to extract the data manipulate on information for various transactions.  • Identified the webservices (SOAP), topics (TIBCO EMS/JMS)/queues (MQ's), underlying databases and other automation areas that will be impacted with the new software development and develop a test automation framework.  • Involved in designing data schema and development of SOAP web services with Axis implementation and REST web services with JAX-RS. Consumed SOAP and REST web services to get the persisted data from different databases.  • Configured Struts-config. XML for action mappings. Involved in implementing the Message Oriented Middleware for Asynchronous communication in Enterprise application.  • Experience evaluating user requests for new programs or modified program components to determine feasibility, cost and time required, compatibility with current systems, and computer capabilities.  • Involved in implementing Value Object Pattern, MVC & Factory Pattern.  • Worked with Tibco and Ecommerce as a part of checkout flow. Deployed application on JBOSSApplication server.  • Used Subversion for version control management and consistently produced high quality code through disciplined and rigorous unit testing (JUnit).  • Used Jira for tracking bugs.Used Maven script for building and deploying the application.    Environment: J2EE, JBOSS Application Server, JSP, Jquery, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, SOAP based Webservices, Oracle, Rational Application Developer 6.0, Maven , JUnit, and Subversion. Education Bachelor's Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages Java 1.7/1.8, HTML5,CSS3, JAVA Script, Shell Script, SQL PL/SQL, Pig, Hive, Hadoop  J2EE Technologies Servlets, JSP, JNDI, JSTL, JSF, Web Services, Microservices  UI Technologies HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, Angular 2, React JS, NodeJS, BootstrapJS  Frameworks Apache Commons, Microsoft Dynamics NAV  Spring Framework  Spring Core, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring Web Flow, Spring JDBC, Spring ORM, Spring Web Services, Spring Transaction, Spring Data JPA, Spring Boot, Spring Batch,    Cloud Technologies AWS - EC2, S3, VPC, ELB, Cloud Formation, Cloud Watch, RDS, Auto Scaling and EMR  Web/Application Servers Web Logic Server, JBOSS  XML Technologies XML, XML Schema, JSON  SOA Technologies SOA, ESB, Web Services, SOAP, REST, WSDL and UDDI, SOAP UI  IDE Eclipse, Net Beans  Databases Oracle, SQL Server, DB2, MySQL, NoSQL MongoDB  Version Control Tools GIT,SVN, CVS    Operating Systems Windows XP, UNIX, Ubuntu, CentOS, Linux