Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Merrill Lynch Pennington, NJ • 8 years of IT experience of in all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as planning, analysis, design, implementation, testing and maintenance of Web Based, Client-Server in domains like Banking/Finance, Telecom and Logistics.  • Hands on experience with scripting languages like Javascript , Jquery and AJAX.  • Proven expertise in implementing IOC/Dependency Injection features in various aspects of Spring Framework (springCore,spring Security,spring Batch,spring Boot,MVC ).  • Good knowledge of latest version of object oriented JavaScript frameworks like Angular.js, Node.JS, Backbone, Bootstrap, Ext JS, Knockout JS, React JS, Ember JS, Expres JS,and Dojo toolkit.  • Good experience in designing and developing business applications with technologies such as core and advanced Java technologies JAVA, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, Web Services, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Maven,Gradle, ANT, HTML, XML, XSLT, XSD, JDBC, Cascading Style Sheets(CSS), JNDI, JUnit and XML-related technologies.  • Good understanding of Core JAVA components, such as: Concurrency, Persistency, working with the JVM, multi-threading, Parallel Programming, Collections,Exception Handling.    • Strong knowledge and understanding of data structures, collects, Algorithms, Multi threading and object oriented design.  • Hands on experience in developing applications using MVC Framework Struts with Struts validation, Struts Tiles, Struts Tag Libraries, Action Class and Action Form.  • Good knowledge of using JavaScript testing frameworks, Jasmine, Karma and QUnit.  • Experience in Cross browser compatibility testing and intellectual challenges in User Experience (UX), Responsive Web Design and Bootstrap.  • An in depth understanding of Scala programming language along with lift framework.  • Strong experience in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and publishing Web Services both SOAP & REST (consume and implementations) that include several components like SOAP, WSDL, XSD, UDDI, Apache Axis2 and JAX-WS, JAX-RS.  • In-depth knowledge of Bamboo and Jenkins Continuous Integration Server - Installation, Configuration, Design and Administration, and integrating these tools with other systems.  • Good Understanding of Relational Database concepts and experience in Query construction using SQL, PL/SQL. Extensive experience in writing, editing and maintaining database objects Triggers, Stored Procedures. Worked using databases like Oracle, DB2 and MySQL.  • Experience in writing Build Scripts using Shell Scripts, ANT, MAVEN and using CI (Continuation Integration) tools like Continuum, Jenkins and Hudson.  • Hands On Experience on NoSQL Document Store databases such as MongoDB, Cassandra  • Performed unit testing using JUNIT test cases and automated functional testing tools like Selenium,debug tools like log4j used Mockito for stubbing.  • Good knowledge of Grunt, GITS  • Involved in using JMS & IBM MQ Series for Asynchronous messaging  • Designed Architectural diagrams based up on the client requirements for their application hosting in the AWS Cloud Environments.  • Proficient in using Design Patterns like GOF Design patterns(Creational, Structural and behavioral) and J2EE design patterns like MVC, Singleton, Front Controller, Business Delegate, Service Locator, DAO, VO, DTO etc.  • Experience with multiple Servers like Apache Tomcat, IBM WebSphere, WebLogic, JBoss and Glass fish.  • Experience creating Use Case Model, Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, sequence diagrams using Microsoft Visio and Rational Rose  • Expertise in using IDE's like My Eclipse, Eclipse 3.x, RAD  • Extensive experience with Waterfall, RUP and Agile Scrum Methodologies Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Merrill Lynch - Pennington, NJ January 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed the application based on AngularJS MVC architecture.  • Developed UI using HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3, AJAX, Bootstrap responsive framework and JSP for interactive cross browser functionality and complex user interface.  • Integrated the Java code (API) in JSP pages.  • Used AngularJS for DOM Manipulation, Filters, and Directives.  • Worked on AngularJS routes using $scope object to create a views using controllers.  • Used AngularJS (grid) for Grid data displays all over the application.  • Implemented the search functionality for Internal Application using AngularJS.  • Created and optimized graphic prototype websites and applications interfaces using HTML and CSS.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST APIs and Spring Boot for micro-services.  • Created architecture towards a micro-services approach using RESTful java web-services framework.  • Involved in using Core java concepts - Collections, Exception Handling, Multi-Threading.  • Worked on Spring MVC for code enhancements.  • Applied Spring IOC to facilitate Dependency Injection.  • Implemented Spring Batch and Spring Task Scheduler to automate importing data from CSV files sent from client into DB2 database.  • Generating scala and java classes from the respective APIs so that they can be incorporated in the overall application.  • Writing entities in Scala and Java along with named queries to interact with database.  • Coded Rest API for Product service using spring boot.  • Used Hibernate for generating entities and writing HQL queries  • Created automated test cases for the web application using Selenium  • Wrote SQL Queries, stored procedures, triggers, packages on Oracle Database.  • Built-in support for concurrent programming by running multiple threads  • Developed application based on document based Database like MongoDB.  • Worked on Rest Web services, to specify the business behaviors and backend calls  • Used Jasmine unit tests (Karma) to verify Angular JS modules and JavaScript utility routines.  • Experience working on Grunt for minification of JavaScript files, compilation of LESS files into CSS and also for monitoring the application.  • Integrating Micro services and JSP's using Ajax and jersey client based on the Rest template which is generated using Swagger.  • Hands on experience on maintaining the builds in Bamboo and resolved the build failures in Bamboo.  • Created Executor based Multi-Threaded application to test Drools implementation.  • Worked with Gradle build tool to build and deployed application on Apache Tomcat server  • Used GIT for code management and JENKINS for continue integration.  • Used Cucumber to write test cases for new modules.  • Used Log4j to record the log messages to the log files  Environment: HTML5, Microservices, XML, CSS3, JavaScript, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, AngularJS, AJAX, Java, Multithreading, collections, Hibernate, Scala, Oracle, JSON, Bootstrap, RESTful web services, NPM, Bamboo, Jasmine, Jenkins, Grunt, OOPs Concepts, Agile, MongoDB, Selenium/Cucumber. Sr. Java Developer Bloomberg - Dayton, NJ April 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in the various phases of SDLC to analyze business requirements, analysis, design, development, testing and support.  • Installed node.js and utilized the NPM with Grunt for the build.  • Used J2EE design patterns like MVC, Business Delegate, and DAO.  • Involved in the development of presentation tier using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Angular JS and JSP.  • Developed the view components using HTML, JSPs, CSS, and JavaScript and form beans.  • Developed validations for forms data as well as server side using Angular JS validation.  • Configured Swagger-UI registered Micro service with Eureka server to monitor service health check etc from Spring Boot admin console.  • Extensively used Core Java such as Multi-Threading, Exceptions and Collections  • Combined collections and customer service to cure customer accounts while maintaining an amiable and professional manner throughout the call using probing questions.  • Built a web frontend using Spring MVC Framework with JSP, HTML, CSS, AJAX, and JavaScript.  • Implemented Angular JS and AJAX for the better performance of system and partial page rendering  • Hands on experience in using Backbone.js to build large web application with data that change over time.  • Designed and developed various modules of the application with J2EE design architecture, Spring MVC architecture using IOC, AOP concepts.  • Implemented the application using Spring MVC web framework based on MVC Architecture.  • Developed the application using Spring framework that leverages model view layer architecture and also configured Dependency Injection.  • Created spring configuration files to define Handler mappings, Bean definitions  • Integrated Spring Security Delegating Filter Proxy filter chain in web.xml to secure the application and limit access privileges to the users  • Implemented the back-end functionality of the modules using Hibernate and used DAO, DTO, Business Delegate design patterns.  • Designed and developed various modules of the application with J2EE design architecture, Spring MVC architecture using IOC, AOP concepts.  • Created and maintained the configuration of the Spring Application Framework (IOC) and implemented business logic using EJB.  • Extensively used several interfaces and features provided by Spring MVC framework for new web applications like Handler Mappings, Controllers, View Resolvers, Multipart file resolver, Handler Interceptor, Handler Exception Resolver, Locale Resolver, Theme Resolver, Annotations and Validators.  • Load data from various data sources into HDFS using Kafka.  • Install KAFKA on Hadoop cluster and configure producer and consumer coding part in java to  Establish connection from twitter source to HDFS with popular hash tags.  • Implemented DAO design pattern for database related activities (Add, Delete, Modify etc) and to interact with the database using JDBC.  • Developed Selinium scripts using python and or Java.  • Coded Rest API for Product service using spring boot.  • Coded soap and Rest web services using spring boot to rewrite existing application to micro web application.  • Writing scala classes to interact with the database.  • Writing scala test cases to test scala written code.  • Mastered the Grunt with commands for building and deploying the project.  • Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, schema design.  • Developed REST Web services to expose the business methods to external services in the project.  • Used SQL Developer framework to write SQL queries and used JDBC to access database and implementation of connection pooling.  • Developed JUnit test classes to test the functionality of a code and developed test cases for Camel Routing.  • Used SLF4j to record the log messages to the log files.  • Used software versioning and revision control system SVN to maintain versions of Codebase.  • Worked with Gradle build tool to build and deployed application on JBoss application server.  • Used JBoss Developer Studio IDE to develop the Application.  • Followed the Agile (Scrum) development methodology and participated in daily Stand-up meetings to update the task status on the assigned tasks such as technical documentation, development of different modules.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring MVC, Spring Security, Apache Camel, kafka , Servlet, JSP, HTML, CSS, Angular JS, Backbone Js, Agile, Ajax, JSON, Sql, Mongo DB, JBoss, Gradle, JUnit, Selinium. Sr. Java Developer Alcatel-Lucent - Plano, TX September 2013 to March 2015 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for setting up AngularJS framework to achieve data binding between HTML and JavaScript objects.  • Developed the UI component architecture for developer framework using AngularJS.  • Improved the UI logging of suggest edits interface with Flux and React.js.  • Used React.js to render changing currency spreads and to dynamically update the DOM.  • Involved in creating navigation bar using React.JS for menus  • Extensively used the J2EE design patterns DAO (Data Access Object), DTO (Data Transfer Object), Front Controller etc  • Extensively worked on Spring Bean Wiring, Spring DAO and Spring AOP modules.  • Implemented Spring AOP in exception handling, which it reduce the development time to handle the exceptions.  • Developed web screens in JSP, JSTL, CSS and client side validation using JavaScript  • Developed applications using JPA and Hibernate persistent framework, developed persistent classes, hibernate-mapping files (.hbm.xml), hibernate query language (HQL).  • Implemented the Model-View-Controller (MVC) design pattern using Java 2 Platform Enterprise Edition.  • Involved in develop the RESTful web Services, developed RESTful Web Services with JAX-RS.  • Used JERSEY framework to implement the JAX-RS ( Java API for XML and RESTful Service).  • Used Splunk for Log Management tool.  • Experience on Splunk data flow, components, features and product capability.  • Worked under Agile and Scrum methodologies.  • Developed UNIX shell scripts for performing administrative tasks.  • Implemented workload automation using Flux.  • Developed Asynchronous calls for web services and executed them using cached thread executor pool.  • Implemented multithreading , parallel programming and clusters to improve the performance efficiency and decrease the response times.  • Involved in deploying systems on Amazon Web Services Infrastructure services EC2, S3, RDS, SQS, Cloud Formation  • Worked on AWS, High Availability Practices and deploying backup/restore infrastructure  • Involved in deployment of the application using Gulp.  • Worked on Java Messaging Services (JMS) for developing messaging services.  • Maven is used for the automatic build process.  • Used Eclipse as IDE for development and deployed application on Web Sphere.  Environment: Java, WebSphere, Hibernate, JPA, Java Servlets, JSP, JMS, JQuery, Unix, IBM DB2, RESTful web services, Agile, Spring MVC, Log4J, Splunk, React.JS, Flux, MAVEN, AngularJS, AWS Java Developer Novartis Pharmaceuticals - Dallas, TX January 2012 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Assessing information needs of the users and developing technical specifications/solutions.  • Developed low level design document and Java components.  • Built a web frontend using JSF Framework with JSP, HTML, CSS, AJAX, and JavaScript.  • Used Can JS for client side validation as a JQuery that makes code less complex.  • Used JQGrid as an Ajax-enabled JavaScript control to provide solutions for representing and manipulating tabular data on the web.  • Developed administrative UI using BackboneJs.  • Followed Agile methodology, interacted with the client, for taking feedback on the features.  • Used SmartTrade API to get client data and display using JSP.  • Used Java ( Java Swing, Java AWT, Multi-threading, Socket Programming etc.) for application development  • Developed the user interface using JSF, Ajax and FACELETS. Majorly worked on JSF technologies like ICEFACES and RICHFACES  • Involved in fixing defects in application worked in JSF managed beans, converters, validator and configuration files.  • Developed JSPs(with JSTL), JSF according to requirement to handle the requests and to provide some components of UI (User Interface) in the application  • Developed Web services (SOAP) to expose the business methods to external services.  • Developed Web Enable client FIX interface for order routing and developed test cases.  • Developed a messaging queue using JMS messaging to notify return messages post execution and to interact with orchestration engine.  • Used Aggregator and conversional pattern to aggregate the response received.  • Developed Helper Classes and Value data access objects which interact with Database.  • Implemented Hibernate (ORM Mapping tool) framework to interact with the database to update, retrieve, insert and delete values effectively.  • Developed and tested persistence of order messages on oracle database using Hibernate.  • Developed functional test cases and end to end test cases on JUnit for testing for business scenario.  • Conducted unit, integration and regression testing.  • Developed Aspects for logging errors in the application. Given Production support for Autosys jobs for Client orders/trade report generation.  • Used MAVEN build tool to build the application on Eclipse IDE and deployed on IBM Web Sphere.  • Performed the code reviews and enforcing the standards. Coordinated with Quality Analysis team and handling issues.  • Interacted with different teams, and involved in reviewing deliverables.  Environment: Java, Backbone.js , JMS, Web services (SOAP and REST), JQGrid, JSF, Hibernate, JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Can JS, Oracle, IBM WebSphere, JUnit, Maven, Agile, Eclipse IDE, UNIX. Java Developer Goldstone Technologies, Pvt Ltd January 2011 to December 2011 Responsibilities:  • Participated in designing and development of software using agile development practices  • Performed analysis for the client requirements based on the developed detailed design documents.  • Developed Use Cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Data Models using Microsoft Visio.  • Developed STRUTS forms and actions for validation of user request data and application functionality.  • Developed a web service using SOAP, WSDL, XML and SOAP-UI.  • Developed JSP's with STRUTS custom tags and implemented JavaScript validation of data.  • Involved in developing business tier using stateless session bean.  • Used JavaScript for the web page validation and Struts Valuator for server side validation  • Designing the database and coding of SQL, PL/SQL, Triggers and Views using IBMDB2.  • Design patterns of Delegates, Data Transfer Objects and Data Access Objects.  • Developed Message Driven Beans for asynchronous processing of alerts.  • Used Clear case for source code control and JUNIT for unit testing.  • The networks are simulated in real-time using an ns3 network simulator modified for multithreading across multiple cores, which is implemented on generic Linux machine.  • Involved in peer code reviews and performed integration testing of the modules.  Environment: STRUTS, JSP's with STRUTS, JDBC, Struts Valuator, SQL, PL/SQL, IBMDB2, JUNIT, Java / J2ee, JSP, servlets, EJB 2.0, Agile, SQL Server, Oracle 9i, Jboss & Web Logic Server 6, JavaScript. Java Developer NSG - IN August 2009 to December 2010 Responsibilities:  • Carried out requirement specification, design, analysis, implementation and testing  • Designed UML Class Diagrams and Use Case Diagrams to understand the code easily.  • Designed and Developed required Manager Classes for database operations  • Developed various Servlets for monitoring the application.  • Designed and developed the front end using HTML and JSP  • Developed XML files, DTDs, Schema's and parsing XML by using both SAX and DOM parser.  • Wrote deployment descriptors using XML and Test java classes for a direct testing of the Session and Entity beans.  • Did Packaging and Deployment of builds through ANT script.  • Wrote stored procedure and used JAVA APIs to call these procedures.  • Database designing that includes defining tables, views, constraints, triggers, sequences, index, and stored procedures.    Environment: UML, XML files, DTDs, Java / J2ee, JSP, servlets, EJB 2.0, SQL Server, DOM parser, JAVA APIs, ANT script, Oracle 9i, Jboss & Web Logic Server 6, JavaScript SAX, , HTML and JSP. Education Bachelor's Skills JAVA (8 years), JAVASCRIPT (8 years), JSP (8 years), HTML (7 years), UI (7 years), HTML5, Microservices, XML, CSS3, JavaScript, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, AngularJS, AJAX, Java, Multithreading, collections, Hibernate, Scala, Oracle, JSON, Bootstrap, RESTful web services, NPM, Bamboo, Jasmine, Jenkins, Grunt, OOPs Concepts, Agile, MongoDB, Selenium/Cucumber. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Languages Java/J2EE, JavaScript, HTML,Perl, Scala, CSS, XML  J2EE Technologies and service API's Java, JSP, Servlets, EJB, JMS, JDBC, JPA  Open Source/Framework Struts 2, Spring, Angular JS, Display Tag, Acegi Security  ORM Hibernate  Databases Oracle, DB2, My SQL, No SQL  Application Servers / Web Oracle Web Logic, IBM Web sphere, JBOSS, Apache Tomcat,  Services SOAP, REST    Apache Tools Log4j, Maven, Commons API, and ANT  Development Tools / Testing Tools Eclipse, My Eclipse, IntelliJ, SOAP-UI    Operating Systems Windows and UNIX  Internet Technologies Java Script, CSS3, AJAX, HTML5, XML, XSLT, XPath  Design & Modelling Tools UML - Use Cases, Sequence & class diagrams.  Programming Concepts Object Oriented Programming(OOPS)  Version Control SVN and GIT.  Utilities WinScp, Putty DBVisualizer, Hermes.