Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer Columbus, OH I am an experienced Java Developer more than 4 years of experience. Recently, I have helped Hallmark Cards in their Identity and access management process. I have strong experience in backend Java enterprise development, working in onshore-offshore model, agile collaborative environments, and outstanding communication skills with upper managers, peers and clients. I am always keen to learn new technologies and looking to take more leadership over project delivery. Work Experience Java Developer Hallmark's Cards April 2018 to February 2019 Description: Identity Access Management is Hallmark's internal employee project  Roles & responsibility:  • Create new rule (xml file add java logic in the script and import)  • Troubleshooting and resolving access management and provisioning workflow  • Performing identity and access management and provisioning workflow  • Establishes and maintain good working relationship with IAM.  • Work with team on project work to keep project going according to schedule  • Work on Access Direct Health Check that communicated with IAM business team and I am support team  • Set up log4j for different environment and set up schedule for health check for different environment.  • Used TFS for version control  • Work on NED (a system used to set up contract)  • Participate on analysis of Oracle Hyperion Financial Management.  • Worked on 1st, 2nd and 3rd approval stage  • Documented and delivered knowledge transition to offshore team. Java Developer Cerner Corporation January 2016 to March 2018 Description: Patient control system that migrate the existing project to the new one.  • Mapped entity objects with data base tables using hibernate  • Configured dependencies in Maven POM file  • Used spring autowired for bean wiring  • Implemented web services operations  • Used Tortoise for version control. Used Maven for managing dependencies and build project.  • Wrote Junit test. Used Mockito. Used Maven for managing dependencies and building project. Java Developer Texas A&M University Payroll System December 2014 to November 2015 Description: This project uploads, validates, saves and present saved client financial files to user.  • Analyzed existing application and come up with best solution  • Developed RESTful web services  • Implemented resource methods of webServices  • Implemented business logic for resources  • Wrote repository implementation to retrieve data from stored procedure using DAO Pattern  • Used Agile as development methodology  • Documented and delivered knowledge Transition to offshore team  • Wrote Junit for classes using EasyMock and Mockito Education Bachelor's