Lead Java Developer Lead <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Lead Java Developer - CVS Health Work Experience Lead Java Developer CVS Health - Buffalo Grove, IL January 2014 to Present Project Description: Benefits or Plans for a particular client consists of many parameters like - Out of the pocket maximum, Co-insurance, Co-pay, Deductibles, Applicable drug lists also referred as Formulary etc. CVS has following applications to manage the benefit data  - Benefit Consultant, a UI built with JSF/Richfaces to create / maintain the setup new clients.  - Benefit Builder, an asynchronous multithreaded batch system to process new / existing plans.  - Formulary Management System FMS ,a UI built with Angular5 and Spring boot    Responsibilities:  • Worked as a lead developer for Benefit Consultant, Benefit Builder and FMS.  • Worked on regular projects and BSR's.  • Estimation, coding, unit testing, reviews with QA etc.  • Worked closely with production support team to understand the live issues marked as break-fix items.  • Worked on integration and migration projects involving legacy and new systems.  • Wrote automations scripts to using JUnit, Selenium and Jenkins.  • Conducted application releases for regular projects, OS patches, hardware /firmware upgrades. Co-ordinated with release management in creating RFC request for change , IQ/OQ document etc.  • Performance monitoring of applications through HP Diagnostics, log monitoring etc.  • Routine review of Oracle AWR reports for database performance.  • Wrote automated scripts to measure custom application metrics. Developed tools to gather and analyze the problem data related to incidents.  • Handled critical situations like out of memory, database problems, hardware failures, job failures etc. Restored applications and servers in very short interval of time. Co-ordinated with Infrastructure, Database, Network and UNIX teams to resolve the problems.  • Created SOPs, training material, system appreciation documents / playbooks, deployment guides, deployment checklists, instructions, package notes manuals and procedures.  Environment: IBM RAD, Java 1.7, JSF, Spring Core, Spring Boot, Angular 6,Angular Material, Serena Dimensions, Websphere 8.5 Application server, JPA Hibernate , JSON, Oracle PL/SQL Stored Procedures, JUnit, Selenium, SQL Developer, Node Js, Angular 5 , Visual Studio. Java + Mainframe Developer CVS Health - Buffalo Grove, IL August 2013 to December 2013 Project Description: The C2C process in eligibility is aimed to fins all the participants which may have moved from one PBM plan to other. Such participants have two ID's - one old and other new. Once they are identified their drug allergy, comments and all other relevant information are copied from old ID to new ID. There are many client companies of CVS Caremark and they were processed together, which took much time. The Eligibility Business Users wanted a functionality to run the C2C process for some particular clients on a priority basis. The design was a complex one and the construction was voluminous. This new functionality was achieved with minimal defects and on time.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for team management, status tracking of all phases - design, coding, unit testing and QA. Responsible for the quality of the deliverables and getting sign-offs from stakeholders.  • Performed impact analysis of the C2C enhancements on the regular C2C system and ensured that both processes ran independently.  • Designed and developed the UI in Spring MVC for submitting mainframe jobs for C2C process. Provided the application a facility to look into the history and status of the running jobs and finished jobs.  • Designed and developed COBOL, DB2 stored procedures for persistence.  • Wrote batch COBOL programs and associated JCL's. Used DFSORT, IEBGENER, DSNTUIL, FAST UNLOAD and other mainframe utilities extensively.  • Participated in the code deployments, Architecture review meetings, Design documents updates, project status meetings and environment set-up status meetings.  • Used HP Quality Center for issue tracking  • Participated in code reviews and knowledge sharing sessions.  Environment: JDK 1.6, Spring MVC, JDBC, CICS Transactions, DB2 Stored Procedures, IBM RAD 7.5 Serena Dimensions, Serena Changeman, JCL, COBOL, DFSORT, REXX. Mainframe Developer CVS Health - Buffalo Grove, IL January 2013 to July 2013 Project Description: Caremark's Eligibility system is a merger of 3 systems - RECAP, RXCLAIM, QL. Some of the beneficiaries also called participants / members are being moved to RXCLAIM platform. CVS has many channels for prescription refills - Mail Order, Point of Sale, and Through Paper Forms. This project was to port all existing membership data from QL to RXCLAIM systems.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented the network TCP/IP communications between Z/OS and AS/400 server using both LU 6.2 and EZASOKET interfaces.  • Prepared the design document for the functional requirements from business.  • Enhanced the central validation COBOL module to be called form both batch and online environments.  • Changed the calling parameters of the central validation COBOL module so that it suited all the caller COBOL modules.  • Made changes to nearly 90+ calling programs of the central validation program.  • Wrote extensive Unit Test Cases for different scenarios and for both batch and CICS environments.  • Used Serena Dimensions as the Versioning tool.  • Used IBM Debugger for Batch and CICS debugging.  • Created a logging system for all the routed transaction those were meant for validation on RxClaim AS/400 server.  • Worked with the Hewlett Packard router management team to configure communication between DEV/SIT/UAT/PORD environments.  • Designed and developed Java classes, JSP pages, Action Beans, and Action Classes.  • Participated in Production Support activities.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4j and fixed the problems.  • Worked on deployment, debugging and fixing issues.  • Worked closely with Business Analyst on refining the requirements.  • Participated in peer code reviews and knowledge sharing sessions.  • Frequent interaction with client and delivered solution for their business needs.  • Actively involved in working and resolving day to day test environments issues and production & implementation release support.  Environment: JCL,CICS, COBOL, DB2, Changeman, File manager , CA VIEW, TWS, IBM debug tool, AS/400 and Z/OS servers, Putty, TCP/IP, LU 6.2 Java Developer CVS Health - Buffalo Grove, IL January 2012 to December 2012 Project Description: The ECD system is a call center application which runs on IBM Websphere Application Server. This application takes feed from an Interactive mainframe application called RxClaim.. ECD application scrapes the telnet 3270 screens as java objects and enables users to use Submit Buttons, Radio Buttons, clicks on links etc. The rich functionality of a browser IE 8 takes over the limitations of the small screens on the telnet sessions.  Openspan Inc provides a tool called Openspan Integrator which scrapes the Telnet 3270 screens into XML and puts them into IBM MQ server. The web application is always monitoring the MQ for any new http requests. The backend application is written in java, it reads the XML message in MQ and transforms it into java objects and a corresponding web page is presented to the user. The application then waits for user's response. Once it receives user's response it again puts a message in another queue for Openspan integrator to mimic Function Keys F1, F2, F3 etc on the telnet 3270 emulator.    Responsibilities:  • Developing Openspan Integrators to generate XML's from mainframe screens.  • Writing classes for un-marshalling the Openspan XML's.  • Created UI in Spring MVC and JQuery.  • Used JMS and Spring in conjunction for integrating Openspan with Websphere MQ.  • Worked on deployment, enhancement, debugging and fixing issues.  • Worked on and coordinated with clients and team to gather requirements, and test the applications.  • Used Serena Dimensions as version control system to commit codes.  • Timely and satisfactorily reverted back with all the queries raised for product/project. In addition provided whatever support needed for the project/product.  • Attended regular status update meetings, and conveyed all important status updates timely.  Environment: Openspan Studio IDE, Attachmate Extreme, Websphere MQ, JMS, Spring Core, Spring MVC, IBM RAD, Websphere 6.5, JQuery. Java Developer CVS Health - Scottsdale, AZ February 2011 to December 2011 Project Description: The IVR system allows the Cardholders to get their prescriptions by ordering on phone. These prescriptions may be new or they may be refills. The system does authentication, establishes cardholder's eligibility, does adjudication, tells the cardholder about the cost etc. There is another interface where a Doctor can prescribe for his/her patients. The IVR system also allows the cardholder to talk to the Pharmacists and the customer care representative. The IVR System is also capable of conduction a customer satisfaction survey if the cardholder agrees to.  The front end is written in Nuance VOICEXML 2.0 specifications in accordance with W3C. The application runs on the server called Nuance V-Server. Nuance provides an application Development IDE for voice browser's called V-Builder.  The back end is written in java which runs on IBM Websphere application server. The communication between the V-Server and IBM Websphere App Server is done through exchange of XML.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed Application using JSP and POJO pattern.  • Designed and developed VXML grammars for interpreting users responses over phone and covert them to XML files.  • Developing complete audio files using audio dictionary.  • Developed POJO to be used by various JSP pages {for example authentication JSP for cardholder by D.O.B and last 4 of social} on websphere application server.  • Design and implementation of the business logic.  • Used Hibernate Persistence ORM frameworks for IVR specific data.  • Consumed SOAP web services for interacting with the enterprise data.  • Worked on development of Hibernate including mapping files, configuration file and classes to interact with the database.  • Involved in complex query to call the SQL and DB2 Database using Hibernate Query Language (HQL).  • Responsible for setting up the development environment and configuration of the server.  • Reported and raised all the encountered defects and worked on fixing it.  • Technical and Code reviews of development team.  • Contributed in build and release/deployment process.  • Analyzed the impact of the fixes and enhancements on the current state of the system, and prioritized them.  • Timely and satisfactorily reverted back with all the queries raised for product/project. In addition provided whatever support needed for the project/product.  • Performed performance tuning through code reviews and changes.  • Involved in deployment & enhancement activities. Debugging and fixing of several production issues.  • Attended regular Status Update Meeting and conveyed all important status updates timely.  Environment: Java 6.0, JSP, Hibernate, SOAP Webservices, Nuance V-Server, Nuance V-Builder, VXML, Serena Dimensions, IBM RAD, Websphere 6.5 and SDLC waterfall Methodology. Mainframe Developer CVS Health - Scottsdale, AZ August 2010 to January 2011 Project Description: Every time a beneficiary fills a prescription under Medicare Part D, a prescription drug plan sponsor must submit a summary record called the prescription drug event (PDE) data to CMS cms.gov. CVS submits a mainframe flat file 512 byte PDE records to CMS to get the payments of the Part-D benefit. CMS changed the record layout of the file in 2011 introducing many new fields and expanded some of the field lengths.    The PDE system executed CICS transactions for real-time transactions. The system used a set of hourly, daily, weekly, monthly, audit and report jobs. All the jobs needed to be readjusted to be processed for the new file layout.    Due to expansion of the some of the columns in DB2, the database needed to be adjusted and many of the batch sort cards had to be adjusted.  Responsibilities:  • Prepared detailed design document from functional requirement attending long meetings with BA's, SME's and tech leads.  • Analyzed the impact of the fixes and enhancements on the current state of the system, and prioritized them.  • Managed a globally distributed team Noida, Manila, and Scottsdale during design, coding and QA phases. Responsible for assignment of work to team members. Tracked progress of the project and deliverables.  • Responsible for quality for all phases - design, coding, unit testing and QA.  • Reported and raised all the encountered defects and worked on fixing it.  • Used HP Quality Center for issue tracking.  • Involved in deployment activities.    Environment: JCL, Serena Changeman, File manager, IBM debug tool, DB2, CICS, Cobol, SAR, HP quality center. Java Developer CVS Health - Noida, Uttar Pradesh July 2007 to June 2010 Project Description: Caremark is a leading PBM Prescription Benefit Management services provider in the United States. PBM's generally tie up with health insurance providers for their group health cover ages in many organizations. The employees of these organizations are supplied medicines at affordable prices. Eligibility is the enrollment division of CVS Caremark.    The UI part of the system is called Peoplesafe. It allows business users to create/update membership eligibility data on a need to need basis. While the batch system allows data management on a client level, UI part allows data management for a family involving a cardholder and dependents. The mainframe part of the application executed batch jobs. The main work of eligibility system is to reconcile the database of the client organization and CVS Caremark's database. There are agents known as Eligibility Administrators who take care of a particular set of client organization's employees' enrollments. Once they push any reconciliation dataset into mainframes either by FTP or through Tape Control-M starts a particular job for that client organization and the database reconciliation process starts.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed Application based on functional requirements.  • Developed automations for various reports to management on daily load jobs.  • Worked as a data analyst by providing alternative solutions of huge SQL queries.  • Production log analysis to identify the frequency of particular business interruptions.  • Reported and raised all the encountered defects and worked on fixing it.  • Used HP Quality Center for issue tracking.  • Timely and satisfactorily reverted back with all the queries raised for product/project. In addition provided whatever support needed for the project/product.  • Performed performance tuning through code reviews and changes.  • Involved in deployment & enhancement activities. Debugging and fixing of several production issues.  • Involved in doing presentation and training sessions to the Development team on the existing project  • Attended regular Status Update Meeting and conveyed all important status updates timely.  Environment: Serena Dimensions, Struts 2, HTML, JavaScript, XML, JDBC, Session Bean, Entity Bean, Apache Commons Net, Serena Dimensions, Cobol, HP quality center, DB2 stored procedures. Mainframe Developer AXA Life Insurance - Noida, Uttar Pradesh April 2006 to June 2007 Project Description: Life-70 is a life insurance maintenance system developed in late 1970. It has base modules and interface modules. Base modules takes care of creating and maintaining life insurance policies, Interface modules takes care of providing information about the policies to the users. Interface modules are mostly online modules. The information entered by the users/ underwriters during daytime is stored in flat files. The base interfaces and the base modules process the information in the flat files overnight and maintain the policy master file and other related files.    Life-70 has a set of modules for new business. These modules take care of new policies. It also has Policy Administration module that takes care of Policy record maintenance by automatic transactions and forced transactions. It also has Support system and Agency system In addition to base interfaces, Life-70 has other interfaces that feed other systems.    Problems reported by Underwriters, QA's were logged in lotus notes database for the year 2004 & 2005. These problems were named called Athena day2 tickets and I was given a task to fix these tickets. I fixed 100+ tickets that were critical from business perspective.  Responsibilities:  • Looking in the Lotus notes server to find active defects. Recreating the problems from archived production datasets.  • Report to the SME the problems that were recreated.  • Devise a solution for the defect.  • Co-ordinate other members of the defect fixing team about possible code merge of two or more defects.  • Run full regression test in UAT environments.  • Created test cases documentation.  • Created Technical documentation, Sequence Diagrams for module wise.  • Prompt and accurate in communicating statuses, issues, concerns, risks and queries to the team well in time.  Environment: Z/OS, JCL, VSAM, CICS, S/390 Assembler, XPEDITOR, FILE-AID. Mainframe Developer TUI ODC - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2004 to February 2006 Project Description: TUI Touristic Union International UK also known as Thomson Tours is a major player in European tourism. They have low cost airline services and a chain of hotels all over the world. Their booking system runs on their customized transaction processing (TP) system called MONITOR. MONITOR is a Transaction Processing System that has facilities similar to IBM CICS and IBM TPF. It has mixed features from both of these TP systems. The database used in MONITOR is called FMFT is very similar to TPF/DF of IBM TPF.    The central booking system (TRACS) is the name of the application that runs on MONITOR TP System. This is mainly a reservation system for flights and hotels. TRACS is connected to a NEONSOFT's SWS web server (on mainframe) and other java transaction servers mainly on WLS (Weblogic server) via middleware messaging viz. MQ-Series. Every availability, booking, cancellation request is sent to MQ. The TP system picks these queries from MQ and the results are put again in MQ. The data exchange between the client system and the MONITOR TP is in various formats including XML and FAX format. Travel agents can book the hotel and flight tickets from a CICS like VTAM terminal, while customers can directly book on the net.    Responsibilities:  • Understanding the design document and making code changes in the availability search, booking and reporting modules of TRACS.  • Maintaining test harness for each developer. As each developer had his own test harness, selected data needed to be copied to each test system.  • Using RACF and DFSMS to control each test harness accesses and disk usage.  • Devised many REXX Edit Macros for speedy development.  • Wrote many Assembler macros to be used by various programs.  • Prompt and accurate in communicating statuses, issues, concerns, risks and queries to the team well in time.  Environment: Z/OS, JCL, VSAM, CICS, S/390 Assembler, REXX, XPEDITOR, FILE-AID. Education Master in Computer Applications in Computer Applications Institute Of Engineering and Technology - Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh 2004 Skills Eclipse, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jboss Additional Information Technical Skills:    • 14+ years of IT experience in design, development, architecture, implementation, integration and testing of medium to large-sized projects.  • Proficiency in configuring, deploying and managing application servers; Websphere, JBOSS, Apache Tomcat and batch applications and micro services.  • Expertise in integration projects involving different servers - AIX, Z/OS, UNIX, AS/400, HP TANDEM.  • Good understanding and implementation of Object Oriented concepts. Extensive experience in object software design patterns/frameworks like Spring, Spring Boot, JSF, Hibernate and MVC architecture.  • Expertise in Front-End technologies like HTML, JSP, JQuery, JavaScript, CSS, and JSTL.  • Experience in application development involving various communication protocols/technologies viz. SSH2, FTP, HTTP and TCP/IP.  • Good experience in various source code control tools like SERENA DIMENSIONS, CVS and Sub Version..  • Working experience in various Business Domains like Travel, Life Insurance and PBM (Prescription Benefit Management).  • Excellent and comprehensive documentation skills. Good knowledge of modeling languages UML 2.0, BPMN 2.0  • Excellent troubleshooting and problem solving skills. Have strong interpersonal skills and a committed project lead.  • Very good in defect tracking, root cause analysis of the defects in Technical Integration, System Test and Production environments.    Interpersonal & Other Skills:    • Excellent in establishing relationships with customers.  • An avid listener, always focused on concerns of management, team and the project. On time reporting to leadership in a very concise and crisp way.  • Excellent time management, people management and project tracking skills.  • Focused on best practices and technology standards. Quick learner to adopt new technologies and frameworks.  • Excellent mentoring skills to nurture junior analysts, onboarding developers and testers.  • Excellent team building skills.    Tools & Technology:    Programming Languages Java, Python, C, C++, SQL, PL/SQL, Shell Scripting  Web Technologies HTML, JavaScript, Servlets ,JSP, XML, CSS, JSTL, JQuery, Node Js, Angular 6, Angular Material  JEE Technologies Spring Core, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, JSF, Hibernate, JMS, JDBC, SOAP, REST Web Services, Servlets, JSP etc.  Mainframe Technologies COBOL, JCL,DB2, CICS, SPUFI, SDSF etc.  Design Skills UML, JEE Design patterns.  Software Methodology Waterfall, Knowledge of Scrum  Version Control System Serena Dimensions, CVS, SubVersion, Git  Application Servers IBM Web Sphere 8.5, Apache Tomcat 5.5, JBoss Application Server 5.0, Glassfish Server, Weblogic 8.1  Operating Systems Windows XP/ 7, AIX, Linux, Z/OS  Database Oracle 11g, IBM DB2, MySQL, SQL Server  Testing Frameworks JUnit, TestNG  Integrated Development Environment RAD, Eclipse, Netbeans  Process Automation Tools ANT, Maven, Jenkins, Selenium  Issue Tracking HP Service Manager, HP Quality Center, Lotus Notes  Other tools/Software Editplus, REST Client, TOAD, Visual Studio Code, SQL Developer, XML Spy, Sharepoint