Tutor/Youth Mentor Tutor/Youth Mentor Tutor/Youth Mentor - Neighborhood Youth Services Duluth, MN Intern/Co-op position in Computer Science with a focus in Software Engineering or Web Development Work Experience Tutor/Youth Mentor Neighborhood Youth Services - Duluth, MN January 2019 to Present Support at-risk middle and high school-aged youth's academic achievement through proactive  tutoring services and coordinating academic-related initiatives that support various learning styles. Teaching Assistant, Computer Ethics and Environmental Ethics, UMD Independent Study Research in Philosophy (Artificial Intelligence Ethics) - Mexico City, MX March 2019 to September 2019 Wrote a final research paper on the topic of AI Ethics and presented work at the UMD Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program symposium and the International Association for Computing and Philosophy 2019 conference in Mexico City.  Teaching:  • Teaching Assistant, Computer Ethics and Environmental Ethics, UMD, Spring 2019-Fall 2019  Grading coursework activities, assisting with writing papers, preparing in- class activities, and leading weekly in-class discussions. Java Curriculum Developer, Girl Scout Coders May 2017 to January 2018 Created an outline of basic core concepts for students to learn Java. Tasks included collecting online resources such as videos and power-points for students to follow and establishing learning competency outcomes. Computed Tomography Student Research Intern Mayo Clinic - Rochester, MN September 2016 to January 2017 Organized and collected data for kidney stone analysis and various CT image files used in ongoing research projects by creating spreadsheets using Microsoft Excel and background measurements for scans in Image J. Radiology Department Clinical Assistant Mayo Clinic - Rochester, MN May 2015 to September 2016 Managed flow of patient materials for providers, prepared patients for MRI and CT scans and answered questions about appointment details. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science University of Minnesota Duluth - Duluth, MN August 2017 to Present Bachelor's in Philosophy University of Minnesota-Duluth - Duluth, MN August 2017 to Present Skills Java, Android studio, C/c++, C++, Firebase, Git, Html, Python, Tensorflow, Xml, Android, Ios, Css, Uml, Mips, Mac, Assembly, Powerpoint, CPR, MS Office, Microsoft Excel, Documentation Links https://github.com/febs001 Awards University of Minnesota Duluth Center for Ethics and Public Policy Book Prize 2019-03 1st place award for best paper on topic of Artificial Intelligence Ethics Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS  Languages: C/C++, Java, Python, MIPS Assembly, HTML/CSS, XML, UML  Systems: Windows, Android, Mac IOS  Software & Tools: NetBeans, Git, Android Studio, Atom, Brackets, Microsoft Visual  Studio, Tensorflow, Anaconda, FireBase    PROJECTS  1. Android Application- Utilized Android Studio to construct a graphical interface for solving various logical problems written in Java and SML, including a Farmer-Wolf-Goat-Cabbage problem and 8-Puzzle problem for a Software Analysis and Design Course.   2. Plant Disease Identifier- Modified and designed a web application interface using Heroku API for Tensorflow’s open-source Inception V3 algorithm used in custom image classification. Modified learning parameters in Python to classify various plant diseases in Plant Village’s dataset as a former Kaggle challenge.   3. Art Generator- Utilized and modified Tensorflow’s open-source Deep Convolutional Generative Adversarial Network algorithm in Python to be used in generating new artwork from a curated dataset of various art styles extracted from the WikiArt database.   4. Personal Website- Created website from scratch in Visual Studio Code and gained knowledge in the front-end web development process and programming in HTML/CSS/JS.  5. Personal Website- Created website from scratch in Visual Studio Code and gained knowledge in the front-end web development process and programming in HTML/CSS/JS.