Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Vanguard Malvern, PA Having over ten years of experience in full software life cycle with strong background in Analysis, Designing application using J2EE technology. Having worked on all software life cycles ranging from project estimation, providing architectural solutions to the customers and testing application for performance and user acceptance environment .Worked in Financial, Fixed income, Logistics HealthCare and Telecom industry by using J2EE technologies.  • Sun Certified Java 2 Programmer.  • Expertise in JAVA 1.8, JSP, Java Swing, Servlets, EJB, JDBC, IBM WebSphere5.0, Oracle 11g, JRun5.0, BEA Web logic10.  • Expertise in Rational Unified Process, Rational Rose, Object Oriented Methodology and UML, J2EE Design Patterns, MVC Framework, web services, SOA architecture.  • Have worked in DOM,SAX parsers and XML schema  • Have a strong technical and leadership skills to lead the team  • Have strong Database skills including database design and tuning the SQL query in oracle  • Have strong communication and interpersonal skills  • Have been working as Sr. developer in financial and logistics domain  • Involved in client coordination and preparation of design specifications  • Involved in building Micro services with REST based API and deployed in AWS  • Expertise in object Oriented analysis and design concepts. Hands on experience in designing and developing server components.  • Expertise in identifying the use case ,proving estimation for use cases and writing test cases for use case  • Have used UML extensively to prepare system design documents using rational rose Object oriented techniques.  • Have worked in different types accounts and build functionality for different mode of payments  • Involved in customer support to fix the customer's technical and business issues.  • Worked in generating payment instructions files and generating monthly transaction reports.  • Have good knowledge in Online Present and payment application for banks.  • Have worked in Swaps deals ,Fixed income products in investment banking  • Implemented Software development lifecycle (SDLC) and agile methodology.  • Microsoft certified VC++ programmer. Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Vanguard - Malvern, PA March 2014 to Present Online portfolio review platform is used to view Portfolio returns, shared class inform and advisor details. This application has three modules Fund and advisor, Returns and Admin modules. This application has tibco and web services to interact different complex systems. This application has java batches to load date from multiple vendors. The system interacts with multiple channels for new Fund acquisition, decision, new fund setup and sending extracts/reports to multiple downstream systems. Multi-tiered, client server, highly distributed system with GUI and browser based interfaces.    Environment:  • Java1.8, Servlets3.0,PL/SQL,Spring3.5.0,Spring boot 2.1, Maven3.0,Hibernate3.0, Web services, JAXB, WSDL, SOAP,JSON, Jersey2.0 , Angular Js2.0,XSLT,Tomcat7.0,JUnit4.0,JDBC,Oracle, IBM DB2  Responsibilities:  • Executed and completed a number of redesign, enhancement, maintenance and support, risk and compliance projects for fund launch.  • Involved in systems architecture design changes, documenting design diagrams, interfaces, middleware components and databases.  • Involved in building Micro services with REST based API to expose fund data to retail systems.  • Migrated the existing Java Spring application to a container and deployed using Amazon ECS.  • Created breakdown structure, resource and task management using internal tools running daily and weekly status meetings with development business users, internal and external entities within the organization.  • Designed and developed spring and Hibernate based spring Batch applications which is using JTA transactions that sent and received XML based JMS messages.  • Converted existing scheduler jobs to Amazon S3 and Lambda in AWS  • Involved in trouble-shooting and debugging issues with complex legacy based programs.  • Involved in rewriting Tibco based Batch job to Java batch processing.  • Working on converting existing services to deploy in Amazon web services.  • Written cucumber test cases and Junits tests and cleared sonar violation for entire projects. Sr. Java Developer Barclays - Wilmington, DE March 2012 to February 2014 Online Credit Application is credit acquisition and decision platform for consumer credit card businesses. This system provides highly configurable and automated application processing with instant decision, judgmental, and point-of-sale (instant credit) capabilities. This application used model view controller architecture.  Environment:  • Java1.6, JSP2.0,Servlets2.3,Struts2.0,EJB2.0,PL/SQL,Spring2.5.6,Maven2,Hibernate3.0, Web services, JAXB,WSDL, SOAP,JSON,CXF2.2,XSLT,weblogic 10.0,JDBC,JSF  Responsibilities:  • Developed necessary base and utility classes that are being used in the entire project.  • Written stored procedures in oracle database to generate reports.  • Used agile methodology to design, Development, testing and prepared release plan.  • Involved in memory management, Garbage collection ,writing multithreading application  • Involved in the entire Software development life cycle (SDLC) model to make quality delivery. Sr. Java Developer Checkfree - Fiserv - Dallas, TX January 2008 to December 2011 Description:  Cash Management is a financial logistics application which issued to manage assignment and transport cash to major bank. This application contains three modules like ATM,branch and admin.The ATM contains information about the site details, assignment, classification and status about cash.The branch has calculation about customers , the transport details and type of transport. The admin module is used for configuration management of this application like users, roles, site classification .The web pages are developed using struts tags.The struts action will call services which will call DAO to store data in database.TheDAO uses Hibernate ORM tool to persist data .The transactions are configured through spring AOP.This application uses SQL server as database and it is deployed in websphere application server.    Technical features included:    • HTML,JSP2.0,CSS,DHTML,AJAX,Servlets2.3,ExtJs,Struts2.0,EJB2.0,iBatis2.0,TOAD,PL/SQL,swing,Spring2.5.6,Spring integration,Web2.0,Jason,Maven2,Hibernate 3.0,junit,XMLSOAP,,XMLSchema,JIBX,WSDL,XSLT,FLEX,Spring IOC,Perl,JVM,JSF,JQUERY  • Oracle11i and IBM DB2 UDB, Sybase as database.  • WAS 6.0,Weblogic 10.0,tomcat  • JDK 1.6/1.5, JDBC, JAXB,web services, UNIX, RAD7.0,CORBA,Windows XP, UNIX, Apache Struts MVC Architecture, Eclipse 4.0,JMX,JAXP  • Rational Rose, CVS Version Control, Clear case, Test First Driven methodology, Design Patterns, Agile methodology    Responsibilities:  • Developed necessary base and utility classes that are being used in the entire project.  Developed set of classes in Service layer to handle the business logic and set of classes in the DAO layer to handle all persistence operations of the data.  • Lead the development team and monitored the assigned task.  • Deployed application in Web logic server under UNIX platform.  • Written stored procedure in Sybase database to generate reports.  • Used agile methodology to design, Development, testing and prepared release plan.  • Involved in memory management, Garbage collection ,writing multithreading application  • Performed unit and integration testing of all the use cases that are being developed.  • Coordinating the team while fixing the bugs in UAT,Test Plan and production support.  • Involved in implementation and customer support activated in client site.  • Involved in the entire Software development life cycle (SDLC) model to make quality delivery.  • Involved in Change management and did impact analysis for change request.  • Requirement gathering for change request and did impact analysis Java Developer Bear Stearns, NJ January 2007 to December 2007 Description:  DerivClear is an OTC derivative trade management system where the customer can view and update the trade information .This application used products like Swaps deal, fixed income, Equity products. The application contains three modules like trade, payment,and document. Trade module has information like product group, counter party and maturity date. Payment module used to verify the trade amount, broker fee, unapproved, refund amount details. The payment module maintains life cycle for trade full novation, partial novation and termination and amendment. The trade information will be passed to DTCC.This application has admin module where user can maintain counter party code, product details and external dealers. The J2EE pattern session facade, Data transfer objects, Entity beans are used to persist data .The business delegate will invoke Session façade to perform business operation. The session façade will invoke the Data access object to store data in oracle database. The data access objects are using object relationship mapping. This application has FPML in XML format which insert basic trade information through web service. This application is deployed in web logic server.    Technical features included:    • HTML, CSS,JSP 1.2, Servlets 2.0, Apache Struts1.2, EJB 2.0, Maven2, Java swing, Java webstart, Hibernate2.0,OLAP,C++,Spring,Struts&XML,Maven,JAXB  • FIX Protocol ,CORBA,Eclipse3.2,Sun Identity manager, IBM content management,XML Schema, Spring IOC,XSLT,SOA Architecture,TIBCO,JMS,Oracle9i ,IBM DB2 V8.0.  • SOAP and web services,JAXP  • DTCC for validating trade, Calypso, SAX parser is used to parse XML and validated against FPML,control,Maven,Filenet process manager, shell scripting  • Weblogic 9.0, JBoss4.0as the application server and eclipse as IDE.  • Rational Rose,JMeter,Tomcat,CVSVersion Control,Subversion,TCP/IP,TDD,Design Patterns, JUnit,Test First Development methodology, Rational Unified Process (RUP)    Responsibilities:  • Design & Development of the Java Beans, EJBs incorporating the business logic.  • Design & Development of UI using JSP, HTML, and Apache struts.  • Involved in code review, tuning the application and production support.  • Used agile methodology to design, Development, testing and prepared release plan.  • Designed the system to implement content management more user friendly.  • Developed build script to deploy various applications and configured transaction processing.  • Validated trade against XML schema by sending XML data to web services and get response as SOAP Message  • Involved in the entire Software development life cycle model to ensure quality and performance.  • Involved in memory management, Garbage collection ,writing multithreading application  • Provided customer support to fix technical issues in the client site.  • Involved in Change management and did impact analysis for change request. Education Bachelor's Skills Java, Jaxp, Jbuilder, Jsf, Rmi, Db2, Jdbc, Ms sql server, Sql server, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Stored procedure, Sybase, C#, C++, Html, Javascript, Perl, Scripting Additional Information Technical Skills: Java1.8, JSP2.2, Servlet3.0,JSF,EJB3.0, JDBC, RMI, Java Mail, spring boot1.3Java Swing,Hibernate3.0,iBATIS2.0, Spring3.5, XML, C#,Websphere6.0,Weblogic10.0,Maven,Oracle10g, Stored procedure, PL/SQL,FIX, DTCC,FLEX, Tivoli Identity manager, PeopleSoft, Rational Rose, Perl script, spring boot1.3    Operating Systems: Windows XP/NT, UNIX, LINUX  Languages: Java, C, C++, COBOL,EDI Files, EXTJS,XML, XML parsing using SAX and DOM, UML, HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, Shell scripting  RDBMS: DB2, Oracle 11g, MS SQL Server, Sybase.    Tools: STS3.7, WebSphere Application Studio Developer 5.0, JBuilder 8.0,eclipse 4.0, Visual Age for Java 3.5, Apache Struts2.0, spring mvc, WinCVS1.2, Macromedia Dream Weaver, Visual Source Safe, JAXP, JGoodies, Google Web toolkit, TOAD, SQL Navigator, unit 4.0, HP Quality center    Servers: Tomcat 7.0,Web logic10.1, IBM WebSphere 7.0,