Lead Java Developer Lead <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Lead Java Developer - Viacom Dallas, TX • Sun Certified Java and Web Component developer with over 8+ years of experience developing enterprise applications using Java/J2EE technologies in Banking, Insurance and Telecom.  • Extensive work experience through all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) starting with project initiation, requirement gathering, requirement analysis, functional design, detail design, development and implementation of multi-tier enterprise, web based and distributed applications.  • Extensive experience using framework APIs like Struts, Spring, iBatis and Hibernate.  • Used middleware tools like JMS MDB's and configured Connection Factories and Topics/Queues.  • Expertise in Service Oriented Architectures (SOA- Web Services) using Apache Axis, WebLogic, JBoss and EJB 3.0 Web service framework.  • Expertise in J2EE Architecture, Java and J2EE Core Design Patterns, Object Oriented Analysis and Design/Development Methodologies (OOAD), Object Modeling with Use Cases, Sequence and Class Diagrams using UML with Rational Rose and Microsoft Visio.  • Extensive experience in developing web applications using C++, Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, EJB, JDBC, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, JMS ,JSF and XML.  • Expertise in using Relational Databases like Oracle, SQL Server and My-SQL, creating stored procedures, triggers, functions, schema design. Expertise in Unit testing through JUnit framework.  • Strong understanding & expertise in web technologies like HTML, DHTML, Java script, AJAX.  • Experience in different application servers like JBoss/Tomcat, WebLogic and Orion.  • Expertise in distributed application architecture, object oriented design, and web based applications.  • Possessing strong analytical skills, an excellent team player with good leadership qualities and strong oral and written communication skills.  • Knowledge in Application Design and Development using OOA, OOD, OOP, MVC, SOA and J2EE.  • Good knowledge of Stateful /Stateless Session EJBs and Entity EJBs.  • Expertise in developing the multi-tier web applications in both Spring MVC and Struts MVC that ensures clear separation of layers and rapid application development.  • Experience in Java Web Services.  • Excellent working knowledge of writing XML documents and parsing them using SAX parsers.  • Good Exposure to Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) such as Web Services including SOAP, UDDI, WSDL, JMS ( Java Messaging Service).  • Good working knowledge in building application using apache ANT builder and Junit automated testing.  • Strong communication, collaboration & team building skills with proficiency in grasping new technical concepts quickly.  • Possess application Server experience with Web logic and IBM Web Sphere Application Server.  • Extensively used different IDEs like Eclipse, WSAD and RAD.  • Proficient in unit testing the application using JUnit.  • Used Clear case for Version Control.  • Excellent communication skills to deal with people at all levels.  • Self-motivated team player with good Analytical, Logical and Problem Solving ability. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Java Developer Viacom - New York, NY December 2014 to Present Viacom is an American multinational media conglomerate with interests primarily in cinema and cable television. It is currently the world's sixth largest broadcasting and cable company. Voting control of Viacom is held by National Amusements, Inc., a privately owned theater company controlled by the billionaire Sumne.    Responsibilities:  • Developed user specific Highlights(dashboard menu) section, Home page, Admin home page, user module (Modify/search users, create users screens with assigning various roles) using Spring MVC framework, Hibernate ORM Module, Spring Core Module, XML, JSP and XSLT.  • Extensive experience using framework APIs like Struts, Spring, iBatis and Hibernate.  • Implemented JBOSS Cache provider with Hibernate second-level cache for clustered caching using cache factory interfaces and also defined configuration mappings like setting the Isolation levels and other cluster configurations.  • Implemented ORM mapping and Dependency Injection in a Spring, Hibernate framework.  • Designed and developed the web-tier using Html, JSP's, Servlets, Struts and Tiles framework  • Designed and developed various modules of the application with J2EE design architecture, using eAgent frame work JSPs, HTML, AJAX, JQuery, iFrame and JavaScript.  • AJAX forms are created for update operations  • Used Framework., JDBC, Hibernate, Struts, EJB, Java Scripts and Weblogic  • Designed and implementing a Node.js based mobile text and voice messaging app and its cloud backend.  • Developed browser based JavaScript application for mobile and desktop using Angular and Custom SASS solution  • Designed and Developed User Interactive Web pages with the help of HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, and AJAX.  • Developed UI components for email and link sharing of documents and files for a Content Management System using Backbone.js and jQuery  • Design and development of many PL/SQL batches using JAVA with connectivity to Oracle for data maintenance and handling  • Testing the web services using SoapUI user can do crud operation returning into JSON  • Created db tables, functions, Joins and wrote prepared statements using PL/SQL  • Created complex SQL and used JDBC connectivity to access the database  • Developed Dash-Board to monitor and report Cache Coherence Servers.  • Java, JSP, Servlets, Struts, Spring, AWS, Oracle, SOA, WebSphere, TOAD, HTML 5, CSS, XML, Angular Js, Mongo DB, TOAD, SVN, Node Js, ESB, Jenkins, SOAP, Log4J, Junit  • Creation of REST Web Services for the management of data using Apache CXF  • Created all the services to work with the various entities provided and testified the services using REST APIs  • Engaged with Eclipse for visually designing, constructing, testing and deploying J2EE application and web services.  • Created the domains, application servers and load balancers using Weblogic.  • Developing a new Content Management System backed by subversion using java EE technologies Performed unit testing using JUNIT framework and used Struts Test Cases for testing Action Classes  • Transformed the QA into a fast -paced agile team and drove daily stand up scrum meeting.  • Created Class Diagrams and sequence diagrams using UML.  • Designed and developed a web-based test client using Spring, Struts, JSP, Tag Libraries, Java Script, HTML and XML to test different parts of the application.  • Developed ANT scripts for the build and deployment of J2EE, WebSphere Studio Application Devloper (WSAD), Git, GitHub, Junit, Scrum, UML, JSP, JavaServer Pages Standard Tag Library (JSTL), Servelet, MAVEN applications.Designed and Developed Servlets and JSP pages for authentication  • Created Maven build file to build the application and deployed on WebSphere Application Server.  • Designed and developed Generate PDF functionality using Spring framework and iText  • Developed a smart rule engine for CAS that tracks, alerts, emails and generates Crystal/Jasper reports for decision-makers in a company about any customer-employee issue whenever the rule is applicable.  • Designed various design Workflow Modules using BPM (Business Process Modeler) to implement Business Logic and Business rules using Ilog, Jrules.  • Designed and currently developing 3 Tier Web 2.0 based price management system using GWT, Grails and MySql. Used and using Talend Open Studio to load data into the new system from the legacy data formats.  • Design and develop enterprise or application architectures and RFI/RFP delivery solutions using SOA(Service Oriented Architecture), web services, DODAF (Department of Defense Architecture Framework), and segment architecture.    Environment:  Java, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, Jquery, Ajax, SenchaExtjs, Javascript, Oracle, Crud, Pl/ SQL, JDBC, Apache CXF, Rest, Eclipse, Weblogic, Subversion (SVN), Coherence, MongoDB , Node.js, Bootstrap, Backbone.js, Angular.js, Junit, Agile, UML, JSP, Javaserver pages standard tag library (JSTL), Servlet, Maven, Itext, GWT (Google Web Toolkit), Jasper report, Ilog, WEB 2.0, SOA. Lead Java Developer Best Buy - Richfield, MN June 2013 to November 2014 Best Buy Co., Inc. is an American multinational consumer electronics corporation headquartered in Richfield, Minnesota, a Minneapolis suburb. Internationally.Best Buy's subsidiaries include Geek Squad, Magnolia Audio Video, and Pacific Sales. Best Buy operates under the Best Buy, Best Buy Mobile, Geek Squad, Magnolia Audio Video, Insignia and Pacific Sales brands in the United States; the Best Buy, Geek Squad and Best Buy Mobile brands in Canada; Best Buy Mobile and Five Star in China; and Best Buy, Best Buy Express, and Geek Squad in Mexico.    Responsibilities:  • Developed and Implemented WebServices and used Spring Framework.  • Developed the Presentation and Controller layers using JSP, HTML, Java Script, Business layer using Spring (IOC, AOP), DTO, JTA, and Persistent layer DAO, Hibernate for all modules.  • Developed JSP pages for presentation layer (UI) using Struts 1.2 with client side validations using Struts Validator framework/ JavaScript.  • Implemented JSF framework in the application which is based on MVC design architectur  • Created Dialog boxes using DOJO for better look and feel.  • Integrate the ExtJs/Sencha framework with Oracle BPM.  • Some sample tests were incorporated using Multi-Threaded Java Applets, Java Scripts were used for playing audio clips and to the make the price lists interactive to the User  • Designed and developed UI Search and results screens for SDWCS operators and other agencies using JSP, JavaScript, HTML and CSS.  • Designed GUI with help of Struts Tiles, CSS, using Ajax for data multiplication as well as data validation  • Created the Mock-ups using HTML and JavaScript to understand the flow of the web application  • Create presentation layer using Struts2 tags and themes (HTML/XHTML) and JQuery/Prototype/DWR for AJAX functionality  • Hooked up the JSP plugins with spring bind and JSTL tags in the HTML pages  • Provided weekly content updates for marketing web site using HTML and CSS.  • Strong understanding & expertise in web technologies like HTML, DHTML, Java script, AJAX.  • Created a demo website running on a Node.js, using the Express framework, Jade, and Backbone.js with Mustache.js for front end MVC/templating  • Developed browser based JavaScript application for mobile and desktop using Angular and Custom SASS solution.  • Created of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using JS, EXTJS and JQUERY  • Built main application in Python, Django leveraging technologies such as Tastypie,  Backbone.js, and Celery  • Designed and Developed User Interactive Web pages with the help of HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, and AJAX  • Created different batch programs to clean up tables in DB2 database  • Developed a bulletin board module for supplier and vendor information portal. Application included forms to upload notification documents to the Supplier bulletin and maintenance of documents, complete with CRUD capabilities and email notifications.  • Created db tables, functions, Joins and wrote prepared statements using PL/SQL  • Configured Oracle connection pool, which is included in Oracle JDBC driver JAR file, to allow concurrent access to the database and optimize performance.  • Created distributed Oracle coherence domains, configuration and system design based on oracle coherence  • Skills used: Mongo.DB, Express.js, Angular.js, Node.js  • Exposing and consuming the services to the downstream applications using Apache CXF and Apache camel  • Designed and Developed WebServices to interact with various business sectors and used SOAP protocol for webservices communication  • Created web services using SOAP for SOA to get data from Mainframes and content manager.  • Installation and configuration of Development Environment using Eclipse with Weblogic Application server  • Hands on experience on WebSphere Portal Personalization Engine and its customization  • Expertise in using version control systems such as CVS, clear case, SVN and GIT  • Technology Stack: Java, Eclipse, XML, GitGui, Git Hub, Jenkins, Jetty, Maven, JSF, RichFaces, AJAX, DB2, IBM Filenet, HP Extreme, HP QC, IBM Mainframe, Web Services, Springs MVC, TDD, SQL, JUnit, JMockit  • Created test plans and JUnit test cases and test suite for testing the application.  • Involved in creating unit testing of various layers using junit and created automated test scripts for integration testing using selenium.  • Designed and developed the application using agile methodology and followed TDD, Scrum.  • Designed the UML diagrams based on the OOAD principles  • Designed and modified User Interfaces using JSP, JavaScript, CSS and jQuery  • Integration of Reports generated using Jasper Report in PDF and HTML as per the user preference  Development of Stored Procedures and Functions in Oracle PL SQL.  • Designed and developed the web-tier using Html, JSP's, Servlets, Struts and Tiles framework.  • Created webservices using WTP tool plugin to the eclipse 3.2 IDE which is deployed as a separate application using Maven scripts.  • Designed and implemented business functionality for WEB system hidden login authentication, agent import and "can see" using the following technologies: JAXB, SAX, XML, and Servlets.  • Dynamically generated PDF file to browser by using iText  • Provides support in the analysis and troubleshooting of production issues which are tracked through JIRA.  • Developed a smart rule engine for CAS that tracks, alerts, emails and generates Crystal/Jasper reports for decision-makers in a company about any customer-employee issue whenever the rule is applicable.  • Defining XOM, BOM and Parameters in ILOG Rule studio 7.0  • Designed various design Workflow Modules using BPM (Business Process Modeler) to implement Business Logic and Business rules using Ilog, Jrules.  • Designed and currently developing 3 Tier Web 2.0 based price management system using GWT, Grails and MySql. Used and using Talend Open Studio to load data into the new system from the legacy data formats  • Design, develop and test of SOA services using SOA / Web Service / Oracle Fusion Middleware.  • The middleware interaction used JMS / MQ series for transferring messages between different components using the JMS/Mail API framework.  • IBM Websphere hosting and Apache Tomcat webserver integration - both on Windows and AIX platform.  • Creating, cloning Linux Virtual Machines, templates using VMware Virtual Client 3.5.  • Providing support & development of web based applications and TCP/IP socket applications in UNIX, using PHP 5, C, Perl, JavaScript, Oracle 10G, MS SQL, t-sql, Pl/SQL, openSSL.    Environment:  Java, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, JSF, DOJO , SenchaExtJs , Javascript, CSS, Ajax, HTML5, DB2, Crud, Pl/ SQL, JDBC, Apache CXF, Soap, Web Services, Eclipse, Coherence, Node.js, Git, Websphere Portal, Junit, Scrum, UML, JSP, Javaserver pages standard tag library (JSTL), Github, MongoDB, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, Angular.js, Servlet, Maven, XML, Itext, Oracle Enterprise Content Management (Oracle ECM ), GWT (Google Web Toolkit), Jira, Jasper Report, Ilog, Jrules, WEB 2.0, SOA, JMS, Apache Tomcat, Linux, PHP. Senior Java Developer Udemy - San Francisco, CA June 2012 to May 2013 Udemy is an open, online marketplace where anyone can upload and sell a class. Udemy has also become a platform for corporations to create customized training courses. This stream of revenue has set Udemy apart from other online learning sites, like the non-profit and propelled its rise in the EdTech world.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on the Spring framework like Spring IOC and Spring DAO.  • Used iBatis and MyBatis ORM tools which automate the mapping between SQL databases and objects in Java.  • Developed the application using Struts Framework which is based on the MVC design pattern.  • Used Spring framework for dependency injection and integrated with Hibernate and JSF.  • Developed web Components using JSP, Servlets and Server side components using EJB under J2EE Environment  • Prepared statements are used for communication with MySql database  • Executed data extraction download from Toad & Crystal Reports to create reports needed  • Created SQL Server logins and assigning roles and Authentication models as a part of Security  • Construct and optimized SQL queries in DB2  • Design and Developed using WebService using Apache Axis 2 on JBOSS  • Designed and developed required WSDL and XSD for the services  • Creates GUI builder using NetBeans.  • Created Jar file & war file in Jboss Application Server.  • Cloning the client specific code from Mercurial using the commands through command prompt  • Created ClearCase VOBs and setup triggers and backups for a new project. Wrote roll out procedures and plans. Environment was mixed Windows and AIX, projects written in C++.  • Created functional automation scripts using open source tools selenium (selenium RC, Grid)  • Designed Use Cases using UML and managed the entire functional requirements life cycle using water fall model.  • Designed Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams and Object Diagrams to model the detail design of the application using UML  • Design & Development of the User Interfaces using HTML, CSS andJSP.  • Developed the different components of application such as JSPs, Servlets, EJB's using Web sphere Studio Application Developer and used CVS for version control.  • Used ANT automated build scripts to compile and package the application and implemented Log4J for the project.  • Designed, coded, and implemented "File Transfer" and "Cron" Services using java multi-threading technology combined with XML engine and integrated them with the client Systems.  • Create and give training to all A/P personnel for the Imaging and Scanning systems. KOFAX is the scanning system software, and EMC DocumentUm is the Imaging Suite, including ApplicationXtender and the web interface for most users.  • Developed User generated content (UGC) Components using GWT (Google Web Toolkit) and Followed MVP design pattern to create front end related widgets and pages. Smart GWT used to develop back-end components required for admin interface moderator's use. Components are: Polls, multi polls, trivia, comments, latest events, user forms, and sports live score and results widgets and pages  • Using JIRA to manage the issues/project work flow  • Designed Power Cubes using Cognos Transformer  • Decomposed Functional Rules and ILOG / Fair Isaacs Blaze Rules for various categories  • Handling changes related to Oracle ADF, Apache Trinidad JSF, Spring, Eclipse Link, JPA and Oracle for UI development and Service layer  • Migrated code from ALBPM to Oracle BPM and highlighted the Oracle BPM related errors/issues to Oracle team.  • Developed applications using Visual Studio 2005, C#, and a combination of Windows Services, IBM MQ Series, and ASP.Net Ajax enabled web sites.  • Designed an 'Online Tutorial Forum' .Development of the forum was done using  technologies such as HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and using Apache tomcat in spring 2010.  • Deploy build to SIT(System Integration Testing) Server using a customized JBoss menu in Linux.  • Expert in NAS (NFS, CIFS) infrastructure (EMC Celerra, NetApp, Unix NFS, Windows CIFS & DFS, Samba, Rainfinity) architecture, migration, management  • Developed Ruby on Rails web applications using MongoDB and back-ground processes using Resque and Redis  • Designed & created websites in WordPress using Bluehost Web Hosting Solutions  • Develop and implement online marketing strategies for clients, including Drupal &Wordpress.  • Built ASP.NET C# legal billing program that accepts barcode gun input. Also used javascript to advance from field to field after gun is clicked.    • Design and Develop programs in C++ to integrate as per the users requirements.  • Designed and developed Message Flows and Message Sets and other service component to expose Mainframe applications to enterprise J2EE applications.  • Developed and implemented Legacy system programs by using COBOL, DB2, CICS, JCL, JAVA and VSAM.  • Created/translated PL/I programming into SAS, which were used as part of the process used to standardize military personnel records  • Developed and Tested with Batch programs are compiled and executed using JCL and changing the Extract File using JCL jobs  • Created SQL Server logins and assigning roles and Authentication models as a part of Security.  • Environment: Spring, Ibatis, Struts, JSF, EJB, Jquery, MYSQL, Toad, SQL Server, DB2, APACHE AXIS2, WSDL, Netbeans, Jboss,, Mercurial, Clear Case, Selenium, Water Fall Model, UML, JSP, SERVELET, ANT, Xml, EMC Documentation, GWT, JIRA, Swing, Cognos, ILOG, Oracle ADF, Oracle BPM, IBM MQ Series, Apache Tomcat, Linux, Unix, Ruby, Wordpress, Drupal, ASP, C, C++, Mainframe, PL/I, COBOL, JCL, SQL, SAS VB, ASP.  • Designed and built it based on previous Classic ASP version. Upgraded its original database from Access to SQL 2008.    Environment:  Java , Spring, Ibatis, Struts, jsf, ejb, Jquery, Mysql , Clearcase, Toad , sql Server, db2, Apache Axis2, wsdl, Netbeans, Jboss, cvs , Visual Source Safe, Selenium, Mercurial, Water Fall Model, uml, jsp , Servlet, ant, xml, emcDocumentum, Jira, Swing, cognos, Ilog, Oracle adf, Oracle bpm, ibmMq Series, Apachi Tomcat, Linux, Unix, Ruby Wordpress, Drupal , .net , asp, c++, Mainframe, cobol , Pl/I , JCL, SQL , SAS VB , ASP. Software Engineer Stripe - San Francisco, CA January 2011 to May 2012 Stripe was designed for developers who can then tinker with the company's APIs to create the product that best suits their needs. Stripe allows you to accept credit card, debit card and bitcoin payments from more than 130 different currencies. There's also flexible billing and a modest 2.9 percent + 30¢ per successful card charge.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirement gathering, writing technical proposals, planning, estimation, architecture and high level / low level design using Rational Rose and UML  • Extensively used Struts supporting the MVC architecture of the product interacting with the JSP/Servlet/Tag libraries for the UI component.  • Involved in the SOA implementation using Axis/WebLogic web service framework for different product integrations and Web Service interfaces using SOAP.  • Extensively used XSD for validations of XML transfer to the different Web Services.  • The middleware interaction used JMS / MQ series for transferring messages between different components using the JMS/Mail API framework.  • Used JBuilder IDE use for the development life cycle of the project.  • Deployed the application and tested on WebLogic Application Server.  • Developed Java Server Pages (JSP) for presentation layer using Struts Also client side validations using Struts Validator framework/ JavaScript.  • Each module was designed as a separate service interacting as Web services between each other.  • Extensively used EJB and various J2EE (JSP/EJB/JMS) component for the implementation of the modules.  • SVN used as configuration management tool.  • Deployed the application and tested on JBoss Application Server.  • Eclipse IDE use for the development life cycle of the project.  • Database Oracle used for the persistence layer.  • Written unit testing of various components with JUnit framework.  • Development in Java through IntelliJ, Eclipse Java IDE.  • Wrote ANT scripts to build application binaries JAR, WAR and EAR files.  • Used Log4j for logging the application log of the running system to trace the errors.    Environment:  Java, JSP, Servlet, Struts, AJAX, JDBC, EJB, XML, XSL, JMS, MQ Series, Oracle, WebLogic, Ant, Axis &JBuilder, Win-XP Java Developer Time Warner January 2009 to December 2010 Time Warner Center is a leading global media & entertainment company with businesses in filmed entertainment, television networks, & publishing; headquartered in New York.    Responsibilities:  • Provided expertise in the design and implementation of store functionality using WebSphere Commerce  • Configured DynaCache to provide an effective caching strategy, and greatly improved performance, for a B2C store.  • Responsible for the implementation of a custom catalog inventory allocation and reclamation system based on client specifications.  • The system used the OOB inventory table but required implementation of new task commands, EJBs (session) and databeans to allocate and reclaim inventory.  • Analyzed and implemented DynaCache invalidation rules to ensure that inventory messages were not incorrectly cached.  • Designed and implemented a solution to allow the persistence of secondary user profile information and also customizations to the Accelerator that allow the creation of Customer Segments based on the secondary profile information.  • Designed and implemented customized promotions to provide greater promotional flexibility to the client.  • Designed and implemented a number of WebSphere Commerce integrations, for a Japanese B2C store, with warehouse management systems, offline inventory management, triggered email messages, and SAP (sales and payment information).  • The design of the inventory management job required the use of IBM WebSphere MQ to retrieve inventory messages.  • The messages were parsed and the inventory levels were updated. Implemented EJBs (session/entity) for additional flexibility for integrations.  • Implemented BODL readers and writers to allow the load of custom data.  • Designed and implemented integrations with Responsys Interact to offload email processing to a third-party service provider.    Environment:  J2EE, XML, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, JAXB, LDAP, RUP/UML, RSA (for Analysis, Design and Development), EJB, XMLSpy, Eclipse, DB2, Application Server - WAS, Logging - log4j, IBM Rational Clear Case, Rational Clear Quest. Education Master's Skills Java (10+ years), Spring (10+ years), Hibernate (8 years), Ibatis (8 years), Mybatis (4 years), JSP (6 years), Ajax (6 years), JQuery (8 years), Rest (6 years), Soap (5 years), AEM (2 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages: Java  Application Technology: J2EE, J2EE  Web Technologies: JSP, Servlet, JSTL, Tag libraries, XML, XSD, Xerces, Xalan, DOM and SAX Parser  Design Patterns: Gang of Four (GOF), Singleton, Factory, Observer, Command, Facade; Service Locator, Business Delegate, Session Façade, Transfer Object, MVC, DAO.  SOA: SOAP, EJB, WSDL, Apache Axis Web Services, WebLogic Web Services  Client side: Java Script, HTML, DHTML  Databases: Oracle, DB2, My SQL  App Servers: WebLogic, JBoss, Tomcat  API & Framework: Log4J, Spring, Struts, IBatis, Hibernate  Operating System: UNIX, Linux, Windows  Version Control: Clear Case, CVS, VSS, SVN, TFS (Team Foundation Server)  Scripting: Ant, Maven, Java Scripts  IDE: Eclipse, IntelliJ, JBuilder, Rational Rose, Together-J, ER Studio, MS Visio.  BI: Micro strategy (BI), OLAP, OLTP