Android Developer Android <span class="hl">Developer</span> Android Developer - General Motors Spokane, WA • Overall 10 Years of IT experience in Java Development and 4 years of experience in Android Application Development, Testing and Deployment in both Consumer and Enterprise based Applications.  • Expertise in developing Android Application Development using Android Studio as well as various programming languages including Java and Kotlin.  • Executed software projects for automotive industries.  • Experience in using CSM and Cluster hardware.  • Experience in Architecture Design, Development and Implementation of Software Applications and Testing.  • Experience in developing various UI components like Text View, Customized List View, Menus, Edit Boxes, Checkboxes, Dialogs, Buttons, Status Notifications, Action Bars and Spinners.  • Worked on the NDK in addition to SDK to integrate the native code to enhance the performance of CPU intensive operations.  • Worked with Kotlin as it is compatible with JDK 6 and above, so apps with Kotlin safely run on older Android versions.  • Some portion of the project was moved to Kotlin for an efficient and lighter standard of coding.  • Collaborate with Product Designers and Product Managers to deliver compelling consumer-facing products on the Android Platform.  • Strong knowledge on MVVM pattern, that there need to be no code behind within the view.  • Strong experience with Android Framework APIs such as Google Maps, Camera, Resource Manager, Fragments, Location Manager, Notification Manager, Content Providers, Contact Manager, CAN, LIN, Telephony API and REST APIs.  • Experience in using JDBC for connecting to database for data exchange and retrieval.  • Strong knowledge in MVP pattern, AndroidSDK, Webservices, JSON, AndroidStudio, SQLite database, Activities, Services, Broadcast Receivers, UI Designing and debugging.  • Worked with HTML5, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP during implementation of web views.  • participated in weekly planning meetings to show the current status of projects and project the development phase which is currently ongoing.  • Debugging and updating the existing applications by analyzing problems that are reported and implementing the best solution.  • Created a local database using Shared Prefs and SQLite database to store and retrieve the data.  • Worked on Dagger 2 to implement dependency injection.  • Good Knowledge in writing Unit test cases.  • Develop alerts and timed reports Develop and manage Splunk applications.  • Managed tasks within Agile framework, cleared Sprinted tasks, and controlled JIRA workflows.  • Used GIT and Bitbucket for sourcecode version control repositories in dynamic team environment.  • Experience in Android debugging tools such as ADB, Trace, DDMS, Log Cat, Eclipse ADT Tools and Monitor.  • Good exposure in troubleshooting and debugging android applications.  • Motivated highflier with excellent verbal/written communication skills, admirable presentation capabilities, efficient requirement gathering ability and effectively convey them to other members in the team. Work Experience Android Developer General Motors - Warren, MI April 2017 to Present Description:Worked as an Android Developer for GM infotainment systems, Deployed Trailering Application which is a core app for the Trucks in the GM fleet such as Cadillac, Chevrolet and GMC. Which enables the user to check temperature of the trailer and creating multiple profiles for the user and it has different checklist for daily usage of trailer and it was implemented with all the features available for the trailer and the app was released in USA, CA and MX Countries supporting English, French and Spanish    Responsibilities:  • Worked on OEM applications which built for customized Android displays.  • Participated in complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for proper analysis, development of reusable code, testing and enhancement of the code.  • Working on different key components of android like app life-cycles, broadcast receivers, content providers, services, Developing AIDL for IPC between the applications.  • Worked on Center Stack Module and Cluster.  • Worked on Kotlin as it provides Java language interoperability. This is a design that allows Kotlin code to transparently call Java language methods, coupled with annotations that make it easy to expose Kotlin-only functionality to Java code.  • Worked on Kotlin files that don't use any Kotlin-specific semantics can be directly referenced from Java code without any annotations at all.  • Worked with MVVM as ViewModel is the main point of MVVM application, so that view can placed that information on the screen.  • Managing Jenkins for Continuously integrating application development Developed and maintained custom android libraries for integrating with multiple applications.  • Designed and developed UI using fragments and activities and UX using material design, features like Navigation Drawer, Floating Button, Coordinator layout, snackbar, Recyclerview for easy navigation and better user experience.  • Developed Memory leak detecting feature using Leak-canary. Implemented efficient Pro-Guard rules for shrinking the size of APK which saves data during OTA updates.  • Participated in Agile methodology (Scrum) for project implementation.  • Writing Gradle scripts for projects as required.  • Used GIT for code repository and maintaining current and historical versions of the source code.  • Used Retrofit to retrieve and upload JSON through a Restful webservices.  • Used Android SDK and Eclipse IDE for development.  • Participated in vehicle testing.  • Worked on JIRA and TFS to track the current sprint and create, assign tasks.  • Implemented different versions of same application to run on different configurations of Infotainment systems as customer build with his own configuration.  • Optimized the UI to make the layouts reusable by showing or hiding a few views, using frame layouts using fragments concept.  • Rewriting the next version of the App in Kotlin for better performance.  Environment:Intellij, Java, Jenkins, Tera Term, Git, Bit bucket, Android studio, Junit, Android Studio 2.3, SQLite, Android SDK 24 (7.0), Android Auto, Android OEM, Broadcast Receiver, Notification, Multi-threading, OKHTTP3, Jackson 2.7.3, Zebra Scanner Library, Google API's, Web view, GPS service, JSON, NDK, Log cat, Eclipse ADT, SmartSVN, Postman, Site Catalyst, JUnit, Espresso. Android Developer People Tech Group - Warren, MI May 2015 to April 2017 Description:Analyzed user interface, application requirements and consulted with clients. Designed the features for the database interface relevant for the mobile application from the existing system. Contribute and Participated in new feature and product specifications Ensured that content met or exceeded business and client requirement.    Responsibilities:  • Redesigned mobile UIand implemented dynamic image sizing and support for multiple devices Worked on key components of android like services, content provider, broadcast receivers.  • Used Log Cat, DDMS (Dalvik Debug Monitor Server) and trace view for debugging and detecting memory leaks.  • Driven services, Async task and Alert Notification API to implement event reminder feature into the mobile app.  • Responsible for flow control between different activities using explicit and implicit intents. Design screens using MVC pattern for the application with Eclipse IDE.  • Experience with Android Unit Testing & used tools like J-UNIT, Rubidium  • Designed UI using various custom layouts, buttons, dialog boxes, alert boxes and different form of widgets.  • Used SQLite to cache the data received from the RESTful web services  • Involved in integrating the service to the UI.  • Added styles/themes to make UI look better.  • Implementing Broadcast Receivers for Android.  • Effectively managed the code review using continuous integration with GIT.  • Tested the application on various Android devices.  • Used agile methodologies (Scrum) for project implementation.  • Worked with various app modules like Phone, Climate, Navigation, Audio.  Environment:Android NDK, JSON, RESTful, XML, SQLite, C, HTML, Crashlytic, agile, Action-Bar and GIT-HUB,Eclipse IDE. Java Developer BDM Innovative Solutions August 2012 to May 2015 Description:This project is a web-based application in which users can register and purchase items. The project also has a warranty module using which the warranty of any item purchased can be checked. Users can also change their personal information.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in development of Order Management, Product Management and pricing modules.  • Participated in system design and prepared UML diagrams and Class diagrams for DTO objects and actions.  • Designed and developed Hibernate Mapping files and configuring hibernate.  • Configured and maintained the Spring Application Framework's IOC container.  • Generating Hibernate mapping files and domains using tables.  • Implemented the MVC architecture using Struts framework.  • Developed custom JSP tags for Pricing, Order Management, Product Management modules. Performed XML Transformations from value objects to XML and from xml to HTML data.  • Designed and developed views, controller and model components implementing Struts Framework.  • Used CVS as version controller.  • Performed unit testing using Junit.  • Developed the Logging framework using log4j.  • Implemented Design patterns for recurring problems.  Environment:J2EE, Java/JDK, JSP, Servlets, Spring, JavaBeans, Hibernate, Struts, XML, DOM, HTML/ DHTML, JavaScript, Oracle 10g,UNIX, RAD, JUnit, log4j. Java/Android Developer AIG - Dallas, TX July 2009 to August 2012 • Used Agile as a software development methodology in order to complete the task.  • Delivered bug free code using Java, Web Services to implement the service.  • Composed unit tests for mobile code and debugged critical issues related to an application such as crashes, concurrency problems, and memory leaks.  • Implemented REST Web Service Model which includes retrieving and parsing JSON formatted data.  • Used Activities and Fragments to develop screens and workflows for an application. Customized toast's, buttons, dialog's, and several other widgets.  • To maintain and save user settings and data, used Shared preferences and SQLite database.  • Used Maven to ease up the application building process.  • Responsible for analyzing the requirements of application, testing, stage, deployment, production maintenance.  • Developed use cases and created UML diagrams like class diagrams, sequence diagrams to represent the overall architecture.  • Developed and implemented the MVC Pattern using Struts Framework including JSP, Servlets, Form, and Action classes.  • Retrieved the data from the server using JSON Object. Used Implicit and Explicit intents for managing activities.  • Responsible for consuming the REST services, getting JSON response and parsing them to get the required information.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries (JSTL), CSS, JavaScript, HTML.  • Designed the User Interface with navigation bar, view pager.  • Designed custom dialogs, custom notifications for displaying the generated payment code.  • Implemented SQL queries like Select, Insert, Delete, and Update statements.    Environment: Java, Apache Tomcat, XML, JSON, Eclipse, SQL, Maven, Shared preferences, CSS, HTML, Javascript, SQLite, Rest web services, Android Studio, Google Maps API, SVN. Skills Android studio, C++, Git, Gradle, Html, Javascript, Jenkins, Json, Php, Scripting, Xml, Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Javabeans, jquery, Jsp, Struts, Android, Ui Additional Information SKILL SET:    Technologies  Android SDK, Android UI , Android debugging, UI Automation, J2EE, Struts, JavaBeans, JUnit, JSP, React Native, GIT, Jenkins, Gradle, Maven, OOPS, Retrofit 2,Splunk, Dagger 2, Native Android.    Programming Language C++, Java, Kotlin  Scripting and Markup HTML 5, XML, JSON, PHP, JavaScript, JQUERY, Angular JS  IDE Android Studio, Eclipse  Databases SQLite, MYSQL  Operating Systems Windows, Linux, Macintosh.