Current Student Current Student Orange, CA Work Experience Current Student Myself - Orange County, CA December 2015 to Present Currently (and since December 2015, combined with my last job) I find myself in the self-training to be a front-end developer. Performing courses and training in Ionic, Angular, Nodejs, MongoDB, HTML5, CSS3, WordPress, JavaScript, TypeScript, etc. Computer Technician Computadores Navarra S.A. (Public University of Navarra) - Mutilva November 2015 to February 2019 Maintenance and repair of computer equipment, printers, projectors, etc. of the Public University of Navarra. Guarantee management Cloning of Windows and Mac operating systems. Java Developer Computadores Navarra S.A. (Thomson Reuters-Aranzadi) - Mutilva November 2011 to November 2015 Development for the content management application of Thomson Reuters-Aranzadi and for the publication application of online content. Development for the extraction, processing and publication of legal texts in a subsidiary of Thomson Reuters in Brazil. Use of Java technology, JavaScript, Xslt, SQL. Modification of XML / Xslt templates for the processing of online publication texts. Java Developer Computadores Navarra S.A. (Health departament of Navarra Government) - Mutilva February 2011 to November 2011 Development of the necessary tools for the application and implementation of the electronic recipe, using the technologies: Java, JavaScript, Xslt, Sql, Jsf, Spring. Java Developer Computadores Navarra S.A. (Helvetia Insurance co.) - Mutilva October 2006 to February 2011 I worked in the IT section of the Helvetia Insurance company, developing the policy creation application, data management, etc. I collaborated in the creation of different templates for the creation of documents in PDF format, JavaScript functions to provide behavior to different websites and Java code in the business part. Java Developer Computadores Navarra S.A. - Mutilva May 2006 to October 2006 I worked in the company's own offices developing a scholarship management application for the University of Navarra. Education None in Computer programming Pamplona September 2002 to June 2004 Skills Javascript, MySQL, Android, Java, Angular, HTML 5, CSS, Wordpress, Git, Ionic, NodeJs Links https://twitter.com/Ekron77?s=09 Certifications/Licenses Design and Web Layout with HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript July 2016 to Present HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript Course. Taught by the Distance University of Spain (150 hrs). Skills:  - XHTML y CSS  - HTML5 Documents  - CSS Styles and box models  - CSS3 properties  - JavaScript and jQuery  - Forms  - Video and Audio  - Fullscreen  - Canvas  - Drang and Drop  - Web storage Angular 7 March 2019 to Present Angular 7. Taught by Udemy (26.5 hrs). Skills:  - ANGULAR 7 Framework.  - Firebase  - Firebase RESTful services  - TypeScript   - ECMAScript 6  - Reactive-Extensions  - Sockets  - Ionic 2  - Ionic view  - Angular CLI  - AngularFire2  - Local Storage  - Bootstrap 4  - Spotify API  - Youtube API Additional Information • I'm spanish, my born language is spanish.  • I came to USA for love. My wife is american.  • I have spanish driver license.  • I'm a good Team worker and I love being learning new skills.