Senior Technical Consultant Senior Technical Consultant Senior Technical Consultant - Boeing SeaTac, WA • 11+ Years of Experience in Analysis, Design, Development and Implementation of Enterprise Applications using Java/J2EE Technologies.  • 2 years of experience in Microsoft Azure.  • 3 years of experience in Angular(2+).  • Good understanding of Big Data concepts, Spark, Map Reduce, HDFS, HiveQL and OOZIE.  • Expertise in Object Oriented Programming and Development of n-tier component based enterprise web applications.  • Excellent understanding and experience in OOPS principles - Inheritance, Encapsulation, Polymorphism, Overloading and Core Java principles - collections and exception handling  • Working knowledge of J2EE frameworks like SPRING and STRUTS 2 for developing industry standard web applications  • Experienced in RESTful Web Services using XML, JSON objects and SOAP Web Services.  • Good Understanding on JAX-RS.  • Highly Proficient in Database design, creation and management of schemas, writing Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, DDL, and DML SQL queries.  • Excellent understanding of linking databases with web applications using JDBC and ORM techniques like Hibernate  • Expertise in Design Patterns like MVC, Singleton, Factory, Abstract Factory, DAO (Data Access Object), Front Controller.  • Experience in working with project development tools like Maven, JUnit; Log4j logging framework and version control tools like GIT.  • Experience in working with application and web servers - Tomcat Server, JBoss, and OC4J Server.  • Developed applications using Eclipse and Net Beans IDE in Windows and Mac Environment.  • Worked in all stages of the SDLC following Agile, Scrum, and waterfall software development models.  • Experience in developing small Android applications using Android Studio.  • Good analytical, problem solving, communication and interpersonal skills with ability to work individually as well as in teams.    TECHNICAL ENVIRONMENT    Programming Languages Java ( Java SE 1.6/1.7, Java EE 5/6/7/8).  Cloud Technologies Microsoft Azure  Java Frameworks Struts 2.0, Hibernate 3.0, Spring 4.0 (IOC, Integration)  Web Technologies HTML 4, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, XML  Web Framework Angular  Web Services REST(JAX-RS)  Database Connectivity SQL, PL/SQL and HQL  Document Database Cosmos DB  Databases Oracle and Teradata  App/Web Servers Apache Tomcat 6.0.x/7.0.x, JBoss 5, OC4J.  Project Development Eclipse, Net Beans, Maven, GIT, CVS, Toad, SQL Advantage, SQLDBX, JUnit, Log4J, JDeveloper Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Technical Consultant Boeing - Tukwila, WA February 2016 to Present Maestro is the project that deals with the Flight data of airplanes. The purpose of this project is to translate the flight generated data (Black Box data). The translated data will be availed for data scientists to perform data analytics. Data in the project can be accessed using the web interface.    Responsibilities:  • Designed Azure solution for the team.  • Involved in developing the Web interface.  • Lead the team that developed the WebUI.  • Prepared Test cases and Unit testing using JUnit.  • Developed Object Relational Mapping using MyBatis to communicate with database Teradata.  • Used Visual Studio Code and Eclipse as the IDEs to develop Angular and Java Code.  • Responsible for fixing all the issues and the enhancements to be made.  • Involved in Design, Development and Support phases of SDLC. Used Agile methodology and participated in SCRUM meetings.  • Used Gradle as the software build tool and Log4J for logging errors and messages, Jenkins for Build and GIT for version control.  • Involved in the web application development using Angular, Java, Rest Services, MyBatis and Gradle.    Environment: Azure, Angular, Hadoop, Java/J2EE, Gradle, JUnit, Teradata, Spring, MyBatis, Jenkins, GIT, Eclipse, Visual Studio Code, Log4J, REST Web Services, GIT Bash, Windows 7, Ubuntu Linux. Senior Java/J2EE Developer Hewlett Packard - Vancouver, WA March 2014 to February 2016 Hewlett Packard is an American multinational information technology corporation headquartered in Palo Alto, California, United States. It provides hardware, software and services to consumers, small- and medium-sized businesses (SMBs) and large enterprises, including customers in the government, health and education sectors.    Social-Click Companion [SCC] is an android app. Users can print content from social platforms like facebook and twitter to any printer irrespective of the printer manufacturer. This app is first of its kind in the market and is integrated with all possible wifi printers.    Cayman system is a webservice. SCC app uses these web services to integrate with third party coupon provider systems. Helps in fetching the coupon and generating the pdf file with the coupon images. This system knows how to lay the multiple coupon images on one page.    PrintX is a smart printing feature for the websites. This feature enables end users to print any article on the NBC website. For example, user can choose not to print images and the review comments section at the bottom of the article. Big Data was part of the project development. Started using HiveQL for writing the queries to analyse the social printing data on NBC news website. Used OOZIE for the workflow configuration.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Requirement Analysis, Design and Implementation of the solution.  • Lead the team that developed the core components of SCC.  • Involved in developing the libraries for the Android application.  • Involved in developing the core business logic using Java, J2EE and Struts 2.0.  • Prepared Test cases and Unit testing using JUnit, Calabash.  • Developed Object Relational Mapping using Hibernate to communicate with database MySQL.  • Used Android Studio and Netbeans as the IDEs to develop the code for the library and the POC.  • Responsible for fixing all the issues and the enhancements to be made.  • Involved in developing the sample application for POC using Android.  • Involved in Design, Development and Support phases of SDLC. Used Agile methodology and participated in SCRUM meetings.  • Used SAFe (Scaled Agile Framework) methodology during the SDLC of the project.  • Used Apache Maven as the software build tool and Log4J for logging errors and messages, Jenkins for Build and GIT for version control.  • Involved in the mobile application development using Android, Android Studio 0.8.6 and Gradle.  • Involved in developing the HiveQL queries. Used OOZIE for the workflow management.    Environment: Android, Java/J2EE, Struts 2.0, Apache Maven, JUnit, MySQL, Spring, Hibernate, Jenkins, GIT, Netbeans, Android Studio, Log4J, REST Web Services, GIT Bash, Windows 7, Ubuntu Linux, Hadoop, HiveQL, OOZIE. Senior Java/J2EE Developer Schneider Electric - Bengaluru, Karnataka October 2012 to February 2014 Schneider Electric is a European multinational corporation that specializes in electricity distribution, automation management and produces installation components for energy management. It is headquartered in Rueil-Malmaison, France  Quotation Management System [QMS] is the Rich Internet application used for tracking the quotations of the possible customers. Schneider Electric as an electrical company is always in search of new opportunities in the market and needs an application to keep track of all the opportunities that the sales team comes across. In order to keep track and handle all the complex operations performed by the sales team, QMS is developed with Adobe Flex UI. The application has different UI that can display the possible customers, opportunities, Sales team information and surveys that the customers take along with the ratings for each sales guy.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Requirement Analysis, Design and Implementation of the solution.  • Involved in developing the presentation layer using the Rich Internet UI Adobe Flex 3.0  • Used Cairngorm framework on the presentation layer to handle the Model, View and Controller on the Front end.  • Used RMI to invoke the methods remotely that are written in Java.  • Involved in writing Business Services in Java J2EE technologies.  • Used DAO , Factory and Singleton patterns to design the business layer of the application  • Involved in designing the database architecture in Oracle relational database.  • Developed Object Relational Mapping using Hibernate to communicate with database MySQL.  • Used Spring Dependency Injection and Spring Integration  • Prepared Test cases and Unit testing using JUnit.  • Used JDeveloper, Eclipse and Adobe Flex as the IDEs to develop the code for the UI and business logic.  • Responsible for fixing all the issues and the enhancements to be made.  • Involved in Design, Development and Support phases of SDLC. Used Agile methodology and participated in SCRUM meetings.  • Used ANT as the software build tool and Log4J for logging errors and messages and CVS for version control.    Environment: Java/J2ee, Spring, Hibernate, Flex 3.0, Mxml, Action Script, Cairngorm framework, Oracle, CVS, OC4J server, RMI, Windows XP Java/J2EE Developer Schneider Electric - Bengaluru, Karnataka June 2010 to October 2012 IPMS Tool (Integrated Profile Management System) is the tool used by the Administrator, Incentive Managers and the Employees of the organization. The Organizational hierarchy and the employee targets, Goals and Objectives are clearly defined and set to be achieved with in a particular period. Managers can give incentives to the employees based on the KPIs of the employees. Each of these employees can be assigned to different customers under a particular Territory or location. This is Flex based application used. Enhancement was the major part of the project activity.    Responsibilities:  • Extensively involved in the requirements gathering, design and development, created Technical Design documentation.  • Involved in implementing the application using the concrete principles laid down by several Java/J2EE design patterns like MVC and Data Access Object.  • Involved in analyzing the business and functional requirements for the project enhancement.  • Involved in developing the presentation layer using Rich Internet Application UI through Adobe Flex 3.0.  • Developed client side validations using Action scripting and the UI using the Mxml.  • Developed Object Relational Mapping using Hibernate to communicate with relational database Oracle.  • Used PL/SQL stored procedures, table and system level triggers for handling database processing.  • Used OC4J as the application server along with JDeveloper for developing the business logic using Java J2EE.  • Used SOAP web service calls in establishing the connection between the Flex and the Java services.  • Involved in enhancing the WSDL files for the new services.  • Writing builds and deploying scripts using ANT.    Environment: Java/J2ee, Flex 3.0, Cairngorm framework, Oracle, CVS, OC4J server, ANT, SOAP Web Services, WSDL, Windows XP. Java/J2EE Developer Schneider Electric - Bengaluru, Karnataka October 2008 to May 2010 FDC (Field Data Collection) is an enterprise application used by the field engineers for tracking the effort, to file their expenses and to see the jobs assigned to the engineers. Customers who want to get the product purchased from Schneider to get it repaired can contact the Customer center. Customer Care will update the ticket information in a tool called as Customer Tracking Application [CTA]. Each Ticket is assigned to a Field Engineer. All the tickets that are assigned to each field engineer can be seen on the FDC application. The information of the ticket along with the address of the location will be available. Once the field engineer fixes the issue, he can claim for his travelling expenses along with the overtime and holiday expenses. The claimed expenses will be sent for approval to the Field Officer's approval. Approvals are also managed in the same application.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the requirements gathering, design and development.  • Involved in preparing the Technical Design Document for the project.  • Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several Java/J2EE design patterns like MVC, Data Access Object.  • Developed client side validations using action scripting.  • Involved in developing the application using Struts 2 framework.  • Used Struts Tiles framework for page design in HTML / CSS  • Used Combination of JavaScript in JSP pages for frontend-UI.  • JUnit framework was used for performing unit and integration testing by writing test cases.  • Involved in all phases of the SDLC that includes requirements analysis, design, development, testing, implementation, maintenance and post production support.  • Used Oracle SQL Server for storing the data and extensively used PL/SQL queries along with stored procedures and functions for complex queries and data analysis  • Developed Object Relational Mapping using Hibernate to communicate with database Oracle.  • Used PL/SQL stored procedures, table and system level triggers for handling database processing.  • Used JBoss as the application server and deployed applications on the server.  • Used Eclipse and JDeveloper in developing the application.  • Log4J was used for logging errors and messages and Apache Subversion (CVS) as a version control tool.  Environment: Java/J2ee, Struts 2, Free Marker, Html, JSP, Oracle, CVS, OC4J server, Hibernate, JUnit, Log4J, Windows XP. Java/J2EE Developer Boeing - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2007 to September 2008 Boeing is an American multinational corporation that designs, manufactures, and sells airplanes, rotorcraft, rockets and satellites. It also provides leasing and product support services. Boeing is among the largest global aircraft manufacturers, is the second-largest defense contractor in the world based on 2013 revenue, and is the largest exporter in the United States by dollar value.    Business Process Survey [BPS] is a tool used for taking the survey of the customers. This is a multiple choice dynamically changing questionnaire based on the customer type and the size of the customer's business. The survey results can be captured and can be seen in the form of charts and graphs using the application. Admin will have the special capability of uploading the questionnaire and handling the application data and the surveys.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing JSP prototypes to verify the components.  • Written JavaScript code for client side operations.  • Written business logic using Java/J2ee.  • Used Struts 2.0 for establishing the MVC framework.  • Written JUnit test cases to test the components  • Used Apache Tomcat as the application server and deployed applications on the server.  • Log4J was used for logging errors and messages and Apache Subversion (CVS) as a version control tool.  • Used Oracle SQL Server for storing the data and extensively used PL/SQL queries along with stored procedures and functions for complex queries and data analysis    Environment: Java/J2ee, Struts 2.0, JSP, Servlets, Oracle, CVS, Apache Tomcat, Windows XP Education MS in Software Engineering in Software Engineering BITS - Pilani, Rajasthan Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Sri Krishnadevaraya University Skills Linux, Unix, Mac, Spring, Java Certifications/Licenses Azure Fundamentals - AZ900 February 2019 to Present Additional Information Operating Systems Windows, MAC, Unix, Linux