Sr. Java Frontend UI Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> Frontend UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Frontend UI Developer Atlanta, GA • 8+ Years of IT experience in Analysis, Design, Development Testing and documentation of software systems.  • Extensive experience in system analysis, design, development and implementation of web based and client/server application using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, AJAX, Jquery, Java/J2EE, Servlets, JDBC, XML.  • 5+ years of professional experience in Html/DHTML, CSS/CSS3, Advanced JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, AngularJS, Handlebars, Backbone, Sencha Touch, XML, JSON programming languages.  • Good Experience in Core Java concepts like Threads, Collections Framework, and Java Reflection.  • In-depth knowledge of integration of RESTful services, Http Services and web services with web applications.  • Extensive experience in responsive design and fluid layout implementation.  • In-Depth experience leading all stages of system development including requirements collection, design, development, testing and support.  • Working knowledge in creating Class diagrams, Activity diagrams, Sequence diagrams, Flow charts using Rational Rose and Visio.  • Experienced in using Design Pattern: Singleton Pattern, Session Façade Pattern, MVC Pattern, Business delegate Pattern, Factory pattern, Value Object pattern, DAO pattern and Data source pattern.  • Involved in complete testing lifecycle of DEV, SIT, UAT and Pre-PROD.  • Proficiency in programming with different Java IDE's like Eclipse, Net Beans.  • Sound knowledge in developing applications using three tier architectural frameworks such as MVC (Model View Controller) like Struts, Spring framework.  • Having good knowledge on server side JavaScript programming like node.js.  • Proficient in developing Object Oriented Software projects on Operating systems like UNIX, and Windows [XP/7].  • Building and Deployment of EAR, WAR, JAR files on test, stage and production servers.  • Specialized in developing Web 2.0 Apps using JQuery Along with AJAX/ JavaScript.  • Experienced in deploying applications on Application servers such ason the Tomcat 3.x/4.x Web server.  • Knowledge in developing applications using SCRUM Methodology.  • Familiar with Design and Development of database systems using Relational Database Management Systems including Oracle, MYSQL and in programming with SQL, PL/SQL, and Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions and Packages besides writing DDL, DML and Transaction queries with development tools like TOAD and Rapid SQL. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java Frontend UI Developer Gymboree - Boston, MA May 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in creating pages from mockups using JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery, CSS3, and HTML5  • Worked with Bootstrap Twitter Framework and Angular JS to Design single page application.  • Implemented modularization for entire application by using MVC.  • Created Directives, Controllers and Services by using AngularJS.  • Built dynamically generated dropdown lists using Ajax, jQuery UI and Angular JS.  • Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Designed business applications using web technologies like HTML5, XHTML 2.0, and CSS based on the W3C standards.  • Developed generalized service class by using AngularJS  • Deep understanding of JavaScript and the jQuery Framework.  • Experience on working with CSS Background, CSS Layouts, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Classes, Pseudo Elements and CSS Behaviors in CSS.  • Ability to rapidly prototype interface designs in hand-coded validating, standards-compliant, and semantically rich code and be aware of cross-browser compatibility and bugs.  • Thorough understanding of the differences and bugs in different browsers and versions.  • Understanding of application development lifecycle methodologies.  • Worked on implementation of modules with integration with service desk & clarity for ticket management &portfolio integration of services.  • Strong communication, analytical and interpersonal skills working within cross-functional teams  • Excellent problem solving skills and the ability to work independently.  • Extensive experience in implementing model-view-controller (MVC) architecture using Angular Framework.  • Created and optimized graphic prototype websites and applications interfaces using HTML5 and CSS3.  • Implemented and designed user interface for web based customer application.  • Developed data formatted web applications and deploy the script using client side scripting using JavaScript.  • Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility and fixed the bugs for several browsers.  • Extensively used CSS3 (Cascading Style Sheets) along with RWD to apply different styles to the layouts for varying screen sizes and pixels.  • Created cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  • Produced content pages with CSS3 layout and style markup presentations and also used JavaScript methods and properties.  • Used JSP, Servlets and HTML5 to create web interfaces.    Environment: Java, HTML/HTML5, CSS3, XHTML 2.0, JavaScript, Ajax, RWD, XML, JSON, MVC, AngularJS, JQuery, Bootstrap Twitter Framework, AJAX, JSON, XML, JSP, Servlets, APACHE, ECLIPSE, Subversion (SVN), Oracle, PL/SQL, Windows. Sr. Java Frontend UI Developer Freddie Mac - McLean, VA October 2016 to May 2017 Project: Loan Coverage Advisor  Description: Worked as a Developer on the LCVA. LCVA is the Loan Coverage Advisor system developed by Freddie Mac .The LCVA offers a more effective tool for loans management, client reporting and loan reconciliation. It provides the user with real time information consolidated views, and various different viewing options. The Mission of the LCVA is to create one entry point for a common, consolidated view while offering quality real time data.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Development and designing of GUI layouts.  • Web content management system and online web components by HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript / JQuery.  • Good knowledge in Jasmine and Karma.  • Experience using jQuery and Bootstrap plugins for the webpages  • Designed and developed intranet web applications using JavaScript and CSS2/3. Extensively used Bootstrap and CSS3 media queries for Responsive Web Design (RWD  • Implemented with AngualrJS using its advantage including two way data binding and templates.  • Integrated the Angular JS application with the RESTFUL Web Services.  • Worked on Angular Strap framework.  • Developed unit test cases using Jasmine to test the angular API modules.  • Worked on Angular JS Validations.  • Worked on the MVC architecture of Angular JS in developing the apps, controllers and directives which are totally customized to meet the needs of the application  • Extensively implemented Angular JS components ng-click, ng-repeat, ng-model, ng-show, ng-clude etc.  • Implemented CSS3 techniques and sprite images to reduce file sizes.  • Worked on website from start to finish to give it a new look using HTML5 / CSS / JavaScript  • Developed the web applications with the help of HTML4, HTML5, DHTML, XHTML and CSS.  • Designed customized component library to use more than one place.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  • Implemented application level persistence using Hibernate and Spring.  • Developed various UI (User Interface) components using Struts (MVC), JSP, and HTML.  • Produced content pages with CSS2/CSS3 layout and style markup presentations and also used JavaScript methods and properties.  • Implemented Dojo for increasing functionality of the project.  • Tested each and every application with using validators.  • Developed the web applications even under pressure when time line occurs.  • Handled multiple modules simultaneously to achieve the application.  • Advocated a more complex concept which empowered the player to control their ship more freely  • Worked predominantly with single page applications for financial programs  • Working knowledge by passing the AJAX, XML, Http Requests to server and populating in cases to JSON.  • Implemented handlebars to render the templates from client JavaScript to Ruby on the server for Creating the Application website  • Responsible for setting up Angular JS framework for UI development. Developed html views with HTML5, CSS3, JSON and Angular JS.  • Involved in Enhancement of existing application utilizing Angular JS, created HTML4 navigation menu that is role based wherein menu items changes dynamically based on the values derived from the database in the form of XML.    Environment: Java (J2EE, EJB), Eclipse, Struts, Jasmine, ReST, JavaScript, Bootstrap, GUI, DOJO, AJAX, JSON, HTML5/4, CSS3, AngularJS, Jquery, Handlebars, Hibernate, Spring, JSON, XML, XPath, XSD, XSLT, JSP, Servlets, Spring, Oracle. Java UI Developer Fidelity - Durham, NC November 2015 to August 2016 Project: Actuate Request Tool  Description: Worked as a Developer on the AMR. AMR is the Account Management and Reconciliation system developed by Fidelity Investments .The AMR offers a more effective tool for account management, client reporting and account reconciliation. It provides the user with real time information consolidated views, and various different viewing options. The Mission of the AMR is to create one entry point for a common, consolidated view while offering quality real time data    Responsibilities:  • Interacted with Business Users to capture business needs, functional needs, managing expectations, and reviewing deliverables to ensure a successful implementation.  • Used UML for designing class diagrams and sequence diagrams.  • Involved in creating the various user interfaces (UI) using JSP, DHTMLX, JavaScript, and CSS , MQ and/or Message-oriented Middleware.Developed all the UI pages using HTML5, XUL, DHTML, XSL/XSLT, XHTML, CSS3, JSON, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax  • Used Spring Framework for DI (Dependency Injection), Transaction Management and AOP.  • Implemented MVC architecture using Spring framework and working with ruby on rails & automation experience..  • Experience with modern ORM technology such as Rail's Active Record or equivalent  • Responsible for writing J2EE compliant code using Java for an application development effort. This involves working with JSP, Servlets, JDBC, XML, EJB etc.  • Used jQuery to traverse through a DOM tree and manipulated the nodes in the tree. Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using jQuery framework.  • Configured Spring IOC container to manage Lifecycle of Service Objects.  • Configured hibernate with SQL Server.  • Automated & integrated the JUnit test.  • Experience with Test Driven Development and Dockers and Node.js.  • Fixed bugs, providing production support & enhanced the applications with additional features.  • Involved in developing XUL, HTML, and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Experience with integrate salesforce, Selenium/WebDriver.  • Responsible for setting up Angular JS framework for UI development. Developed html views with HTML5, CSS3, JSON and AngularJS, Adobe flash.  • Involved in Enhancement of existing application utilizing AngularJS, created HTML navigation menu that is role based wherein menu items changes dynamically based on the values derived from the database in the form of XML.Used Bootstrap and AngularJS in effective web design.  • TML, and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Worked on Salesforce of the company application developments  • Involved in writing and modifying Procedure, Queries, Views and Triggers.  • Written SQL Queries to interact with Oracle database    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Eclipse, IBM Webspehere, Hibernate, SQL Server, JUnit, SVN, Windows XP, DHTMLX, , JavaScript, JQuery, HTML5, XML, & CSS3, Angular.js, backbone.js, Require.js, bootstrap, MVC, Adobe Fireworks, Photoshop, Dreamweaver, Illustrator, AJAX, XML, Eclipse, Internet Explorer, , Chrome, PL/SQL, Toad, Windows UI Java Developer Ameriprise Financial - Phoenix, AZ April 2014 to October 2015 Description: Ameriprise Financial, Inc. is one of the leading diversified financial services companies in the US. Ameriprise Financial engages in business through its subsidiaries who provide a wide range of financial planning, products and services designed to be utilized as solutions for its clients.    Responsibilities:  • Back end development of the project in terms to writing Java services for various functionalities to implement SOA and OSB.  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript framework like Angular.JS, Node.js. Used building rich internet applications, backbone JS & Require JS to optimize in-browser use and to load the module and to improve the Speed.  • Integrating the services with accordance to the existing services and developing the new WSDL and XSD files as per the business needs.  • Created Images, Logos and Icons that are used across the web pages using Adobe Flash and Photoshop.  • Debugged the application using chrome debug tool to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions using IE Developer Tool bar for IE.  • Performing front end - to - back end integration for different forms of wires.  • Have dealt with the total development and integration of Foreign Exchange Service from end - to - end.  • Working experiences in supporting side WCAG 2.0, Perl.  • Creating and modifying the views in Springs framework so as to mask the appearance of URLs to end users and working on ruby with rails to have java implements.  • Experience Acceptance testing, including tools such as Cucumber  • Testing the functionalities in terms of requests and responses for the front-end Json files.  • Writing the front end look and appearance for the screens using javascript, Adobe flash AJAX, AngularJS, jquery, Rails experience and automation test cases..  • Creating Java code and modifying the existing code so as to match with the front JavaScript files.  • Working on Deep JavaScript experience such as "Prototypical Inheritance" and "Scoping"  • Developing web-services for different functionalities in the application in SOAP and REST architectures.  • Testing the final product with UX developing design with proof of concept.  • Have written Database queries to deal with updating of records in Tandem Database.  • Used hibernate in order to deal with large databases the organization has.    Environment: Java, jboss 7, Tomcat Server, Eclipse, Maven, Tandem, jQuery, Hibernate, JSP, AJAX, YUI, AngularJS, HTML 5, XML, Struts, Springs Framework, JSP, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, DOM, DML, DHTML, EXT JS, Angular.js, Node.js, backbone.js, Require.js, Adobe Flash, Photoshop, Dreamweaver, XML, Apache, SOAP, Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome, Windows, Perl. Java UI Developer Talbots - Hingham, MA March 2013 to March 2014 Description: Talbots is an American specialty retailer and direct marketer of women's classic clothing, shoes and fashion accessories. The company is known for providing gracious service and a quality selection of timeless wardrobe essentials in a broad range of sizes.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented project using Agile SCRUM methodology. Involved in daily stand up meetings, sprint showcase and sprint retrospective.  • Implemented Spring MVC framework which includes writing Controller classes for handling requests, processing form submissions and also performed validations.  • Designed and development of User Interface using HTML, JSP, JSP Custom Tag and AJAX  • Implemented client side validations using JavaScript and jQuery  • Implemented J2EE design patterns like Data Access Object and Business Delegate to handle the business flow.  • Developed International Error Correction Screens using custom front end forms using XML, XSLT, Angular JS, JQuery and ExtJSSencha.  • Designed and developed web services for search, validations using JAX-WS and Apache CXF.  • Implemented Real time monitoring Dashboard using Angular JS and SignalR, Web-services and Bootstrap.  • Created Dynamic reporting tool using jQGrid and Bootstrap.  • Created Damage and Exception Marking Application.  • Implemented Queues with Real time updates using SignalR.  • Converting Winform applications to Web applications.  • Responsive UI Websites using Bootstrap.  • Extensively worked on Spring AOP and integrated the application using Spring Dependency Injection.  • Developed Persistence layer using Hibernate and implemented DAO to handle the data base interaction.  • Coordinated with external teams to finalize the XML messages for the Web Services communications in SOA architecture.  • Wrote JUnit test cases to test the application and performed random checks to analysis the portability, reliability and flexibility of the project.  • Performed database operations and queries using Oracle 10g.  • Conducted code reviews against coding standards and made sure the best practices are maintained in development process.  • Used Log4j for tracking errors and debugging the code.  • Designed Schemas and generate classes using RAD IDE    Environment: Java1.6, Struts, JSF1.2, EJB 2.0, Java/J2EE coding,J2EE patterns, BootStrap, AngularJs, Signal R,Web service, JDBC, JMS, Spring, Groovy,AnjularJs, WSDL, JQuery, Hibernate, Log4j, XML, JUnit, Oracle 10g, Websphere7.0,UML Design, HTML 5, Java script, Java Developer Honda August 2011 to September 2013 Responsibilities:  • Participated in all the phases of SDLC including Requirements Collection, Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications, Development and Customization of the application.  • Developed high level design documents, Use case documents, detailed design documents and Unit Test Plan documents and created Use Cases, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams using UML.  • Development of GUI for HTML and JSP Versions. Java Servlets were used as the common gateway interface between the client and server.  • Servlets are used to service requests from UI to manipulate Business Objects and invoke respective EJBs for making database updates.  • Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several Java/J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate, MVC, Session Façade, Factory Method, Service Locator, Singleton and Data Transfer Objects (DTO  • Configured Web Application Context as a ContextListener in the web.xml file to Integrating Spring with JSF.  • Designed and Developed Web Services using technologies UDDI, WSDL, SOAP to communicate to theother modules.  • Wrote various Hibernate Queries using Hibernate Query Language(HQL) and hibernate criterion queries to execute queries against database.  • Developed complex service components for Data Access Layer, DAO classes to interact with backend using Java and Hibernate Framework.  • Implemented ORM in the persistence layer using Hibernate frame work in conjunction with Spring Aspect Oriented Programming (AOP) functionality.  • Configured Oracle connection pool, which is included in Oracle JDBC driver JAR file, to allow concurrent access to the database and optimize performance.  • Involved in performance tuning of the application to meet non-functional requirements.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Servlets, Hibernate, JSF, Web Sphere Application Server, IBM RAD, XML, XSLT, JSP, JDBC, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Oracle 9i/10g, CVS, Rational Rose, UNIX, ANT, SOAP, Spring, JUnit, DTD, XML Schema. Java Developer Zeta Interactive May 2009 to July 2011 Responsibilities:  • Extensively worked on Struts Framework.  • Created used interfaces using JSP.  • Developed the Web Interface using Servlets, Java Server Pages, HTML and CSS.  • Developed the DAO objects using JDBC.  • Business Services using the Servlets and Java.  • Developed and modified Servlets to accept and process request from the clients.  • Developed various objects using java and HTML and DHTML to maintain well-structured GUI and to interact with Controllers to get data from Oracle database.  • Used JDBC to connect the J2EEserver with the relational database.  • User input validations done using JavaScript and developed use cases using UML.  • Extreme programming methodologies for replacing the existing code and testing in J2EE environment.  • Developed java classes for business layer.  • Developed database objects like tables, views, stored procedures, indexes.  • Involved in testing and fixing the bugs.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and JQuery.  • Created Cross-Browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS page layouts.  • Designed table-less layouts using CSS and appropriate HTML tags as per W3C standards.  • Participated in the research of new technologies like JQUERY-Mobile for few potential mobile app development efforts.  • Experience working closely with Business Analysts and Product team in understanding the technical requirements.  • Worked with QA team on daily basis in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform compatibility.  • Created configuration pages for the users to manage/customize/create storage mappings.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Struts, HTML, DHTML, Custom Tags, ANT, Java Script, XML, JDBC, Oracle (PL/SQL), DAO, Linux, Web Logic, Log4j, Eclipse. Education Bachelor's Skills ECLIPSE, J2EE, JAVA, jQuery, SERVLETS, javascript Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages: C,CoreJava,SQL/PL SQL  Web / Java EE Technologies: J2EE, Servlets, HTML4/5, DHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, XHTML, XML,  Angular JS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, NodeJS, MVC Design  Databases: MySQL, Oracle.  Database Tools: Toad, SQL plus.  Web / Application Servers: IIS,Tomcat 5.  IDE Tools: Eclipse, Notepad++, Visual Studio, Dream Weaver.  Version Control Tools: CVS, SVN, VSS  CASE Methods / Tools: UML, Rational Rose, VISIO 2003,