Senior Java Developer Senior <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Java Developer - Eli Lilly Indianapolis, IN • 8 years of hands-on experience in Software Process Engineering, designing and building a Web Application using Java/J2EE Technology &open source technologies.  • Worked on software planning, requirement analysis, designing and building enterprise applications for manual and automation process.  • Worked on identifying defects, problems, suggesting and determining the extent of programming required and performance tuning of the applications.  • Worked on software development methodologies like Waterfall, Agile development and Rapid Application Development.  • Worked on frameworks like Spring MVC/IOC/JDBC/AOP/Context.  • Worked on building fast and scalable network applications using Node.js  • Worked on developing applications using Java technologies include Core Java, J2EE, Java Server Pages (JSP), Servlets, Java Script, JDBC, JMS, Apache Camel and EJB.  • Experience in implementing Web Services based on Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using SOAP, Restful Web Services, JAX-WS, WSDL, WADL.  • Worked on Object relational Mapping frameworks such as Hibernate.  • Implemented base classes, setting up framework classes/configuration files for implementing J2EE application using complete set of JAVA SDK and available J2EE APIs.  • Worked on developing Unit testing&Integration testing with unit testing frameworks like JUnit.  • Experience in working with application server technologies like WebLogic and Apache Tomcat.  • Experience in Object Oriented Methodology, UML and Design Patterns.  • Experience in using Front End Technologies: JSP, HTML, Bootstrap, JQuery,React.js, Angular.js, Backbone JS.  • Worked on configuring build tools like Maven and ANT for the development and deployment.  • Experience in Requirement gathering & analysis, designing UML - for developing application specific Object model, Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams & State diagrams.  • Experience in Object Oriented Programming concepts.  • Configuration and Version control management using CVS,SVN.  • Excellent team player, quick learner and self-starter with effective communication, motivation and organizational skills combined with attention to details and business process improvements. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Java Developer Eli Lilly - Indianapolis, IN December 2014 to Present Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, JDBC, JNDI, Hibernate, Apache Tomcat, Eclipse, XML/XSLT, HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, React JS, Backbone JS, Bootstrap, SQL Server and Junit, IBM Lotus Notes  Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed a web site application using HTML5,CSS3, Angular JS, Bootstrap,JQuery, Backbone JS, XML, Servlets, JSP.  • Modified the UI screens created by web designer using HTML5, JSP, CSS3, and JavaScript, React.js.  • Involved in developing Front End Programming for Web applications.  • Worked on web applications using open source MVC frameworks.  • Worked on AOP (Spring) for logging the details in the database. This is used for Application level logging and data can be used for analysis in later stages.  • Designed the application in layered approach like Presentation, Service, DAO, Utils and Test modules.  • Analyzing business requirements in technical point of view.  • Design and Development of the system work flow.  Used Singleton,Spring MVC, Hibernate, Factory Pattern and DAO design patterns.  • Developed common XML schema's (XSD) as client contracts used to publish Top Down approach based Web Services.  • Developed business layer using Spring, Hibernate and DAO's.  • Used Hibernate as persistence Layer - using the database and configuration data to provide persistence services (and persistent objects) to the application.  • Used database transactions and transaction management along with Spring ORM and DAO.  • Wrote SQL Queries to interact with SQL Server Database.  • Designed and implemented Hibernate Annotation-based persistence layer for backend.  • Used HQL and SQL as the query languages in Hibernate Mapping. Integrated the Spring and Hibernate framework.  • Done with unit testing of all java classes using JUnit framework.  • Actively Participated in tracking and resolving Production issues.  • Worked on creating functional flowcharts for projects using MS Visio.  • Worked on issue tracking tool JIRA, and testing tool like TestRail. Senior J2EE Developer BlackRock - New York, NY July 2013 to December 2014 Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, JDBC, JNDI, Hibernate, JMS, Tomcat, Eclipse, Oracle 10g, XML/XSLT, HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, Node.js, Bootstrap, SQL developer, WebLogic and JUnit.  Responsibilities:  • Participated in requirement gathering and converting the requirements into technical specifications.  • Developed Web interface using JSP, Standard Tag Libraries (JSTL), and Spring Framework.  • Created interactive web pages and applications by usage of HTML, CSS,Bootstrap, Angular JS , Backbone JS, JQuery, Node.js  • Integration of user-facing elements developed by front-end developers with server side logic.  • Created Angular JS controllers and services.  • Called Rest web services through Angular JS services to get JSON Object and modified the response object to display in UI.  • Responsible for use case diagrams, class diagrams and sequence diagrams using Rational Rose in the Design phase.  • Actively participated in complete development of "Agile Development Methodology" and tested the application in each iteration.  • Used Spring Security for Authentication and authorization extensively.  • Used Spring Core for dependency injection/Inversion of Control (IoC).  • Designed and implemented DTO Design Patterns.  • Locator, Data Transfer Object (DTO) and Data Access Object (DAO), Singleton, Factory.  • Implemented the Hibernate framework (ORM) to interact with database.  • Implemented spring framework for application transaction management.  • Developed Web Services to integrate with the External System.  • Implemented Maven build tool to build jar files.  • Developed the Junit test cases.  • Used Log4j and commons-logging frameworks for logging the application flow.  • Responsible to write complex SQL and HQL queries to retrieve data from the Oracle database and MongoDB.  • Extensively written unit and integration test cases using mockobjects and JUnit.  • Used XML to transfer the application data between client and server.  • Used the JDBC for data retrieval from the database for various inquiries.  • Done with unit testing of all java classes using JUnit framework. Supports various kinds of testing activities starting from Integrated Unit Test, Sub System Test, System Test & User Acceptance Test. Senior J2EE Developer Digital Insight - Atlanta, GA October 2012 to June 2013 Environment:Core java, Java 1.5, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Angular JS, Hibernate, SQL, HTML, Springs, JQuery,React.js, JNDI, JMS, PL/SQL, JBOSS, ANT, XML, Java Script, CSS, Windows, Eclipse, Log4j,SVN.  Responsibilities:  • Designed the UML class diagrams and sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Used JSP, HTML, Java Script, Angular JS, Backbone JS, React.js, Bootstrap and CSS for content layout and presentation.  • Used JMS for Point-to-Point asynchronous messaging for high transactional Banking operation.  • Worked on JQuery, AJAX and JSON for designing highly user interactive web pages.  • Created data access layer using SQL and PL/SQL.  • Implemented the design patterns DAO, Service Locator and Business Delegate.  • Wrote Spring configuration files for the beans defined and properties to be injected into them using spring's Dependency Injection.  • Incorporated new Spring DAO implementation of Hibernate components for enrollment module.  • Used Spring's AOP to implement logging feature seamlessly into the application.  • Successfully implemented the MVC pattern by writing the JSP's as a view and Java beans i.e., POJO's as a model and ActionServlet is the controller.  • Developed Persistence classes and O/R mapping (. hbm) files for Hibernate.  • Used Jenkins to build the results by RSS or email to get real time notifications on failure.  • Used Hibernate in the DAO layer to persist the data to the Database.  • Used HQL queries and Criteria API for efficient object retrieval.  • Developed stored procedures and Triggers using PL/SQL to access the database.  • Used on DOM parser to read XML files.  • Incorporated new methods into existing service business components.  • Performed logging using log4j.  • Performed unit testing by writing test cases using JUnit.  • Developed ANT scripts that checkout code from SVN repository, build EAR files, and deploy the EAR files on WebLogic Application server. Senior J2EE Developer Chorus Healthcare - Houston, TX May 2012 to September 2012 Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Postgres, MVC, AJAX, Java Script, CSS, HTML, ANT, JUnit, Apache Tomcat Server.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented all the phases of SDLC including Requirements Collection, Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications and Development of the Application.  • Developed the server side business logic using Action Classes, Action Forms, Helper classes and DAO access layer classes.  • Used JSP, HTML, Java Script, Angular JS,Bootstrap and CSS for content layout and presentation.  • Developed Web services and written SOAP and created WSDL for web services.  • Developed various modules using MVC Struts.  • Used Spring IOC, AOP modules to integrate with the application.  • Used Hibernate as persistent layer by mapping to the tables.  • Experience in writing Beans, Action Classes and Business Delegates using Action Forms, DynaActionForm and Validator Action Forms.  • Create Hibernate.hbm mapping files for Data Models and configuring in hibernate.cfg.xml.  • Implemented the design of the applications using J2EE using Model/View/Controller (MVC) design pattern.  • Developed Spring Beans and Configured Spring using applicationContext.xml.  • Involved in the integration of Struts with Spring Framework and implemented Spring MVC, Spring IoC, Spring AOP, Spring JDBC, Spring Persistence with JPA.  • Configured Front Controller in springapp-config.xml of Spring MVC and implemented Spring Web flow.  • Written DAO classes to interface with Database using hibernate.  • Used XML parsers to parse the XML data.  • Used O/R mapping tool Hibernate for persistence data.  • Developed and flexible, scalable, utilizing open source technologies like Hibernate ORM and Spring Framework.  • Wrote the Hibernate-mapping XML files to define java classes-database tables mapping.  • Used Hibernate Template for various database update, insert, delete operations and for invoking functions, stored procedures, triggers.  • Created Database tables and schema in Postgres based on data flow requirements.  • Written database Functions, Procedures and Triggers as per the business logic requirements.  • Build scripts were written to create a run time environment for ANT.  • Wrote JUnit test cases for testing the Business layer and the service layer.  • Followed Agile approach for the development process. Java Developer Wireless Facilities Inc - San Diego, CA January 2011 to April 2012 Environment: Java, JEE, JSF, RAD, Ajax, JavaScript, JAX-WS, Web Services, SOA, SOAP, WSDL, JMS, Hibernate, JSTL, Spring, XML, XSLT, WebSphere, Junit, SVN, Servlets, JDBC.    Responsibilities:  • Development and testing of the website using Struts and Spring framework.  • Implemented application logging and exception handling using Spring AOP.  • Used the Agile as SDLC process for the project execution.  • Designed and developed GUI components using JSP, HTML and JavaScript.  • Developed highly responsive, dynamic user interface components using AJAX and JQuery.  • Used object oriented programming concepts of Java Script like Prototypes and Closures for client side data manipulation and encapsulation.  • Implemented MVC using Spring Framework.  • Handled the database access by implementing ControllerServlet.  • Implemented PL/SQL stored procedures and triggers.  • Used JDBC prepared statements to call from Servlets for database access.  • Designed and documented of the stored procedures.  • Developed the CSS Classes for all Error, Form Elements and Warnings.  • Performed client side validations using JavaScript.  • Used Log4J to monitor the Error Logs and Used Maven to build the application.  • Deployed application on WebLogic Application Server and development using Eclipse. Java Developer EMCO Ltd September 2007 to November 2010 Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, HTML, DHTML, XML, JavaScript, Spring, Eclipse, WebLogic, PL/SQL and Oracle9i.  Responsibilities:  • Developed the GUI of the system using HTML, JSP and client-side validations was done using JavaScript. Built and accessed the database using JDBC for ORACLE 9i.  • Struts Framework in conjunction with JSP and Tag Libraries used in developing user Interface for administrative screens and user interaction screens.  • Developed Session Beans for necessary transactions like fetching the data required, updating the customer information.  • Worked on coding of Servlets and EJB communication  • Worked on Maven for getting latest jar files including common-collection.jar, common-logging.jar etc., from Apache.  • Developed Servlets to process the requests, transfer the control according to the request to Corresponding Session Beans, JSP pages.  • Developed WebLogic container security components for adding vendor specific Security Realm to application using JMX.  • Java Servlets and JSP pages were deployed on the WebLogic Application Server for retrieving user information and posting related data.  • Worked on database interaction layer for insertions, updating and retrieval operations of data from oracle database by writing stored procedures. Education Bachelor's Skills database. (9 years), HTML (9 years), Java (9 years), JSP. (9 years), XML (9 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Languages Java, J2EE, PL/SQL, C, C++  JAVA Technologies Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JNDI, EJB, Web Services, Java Server Faces(JSF), Spring Framework  Web Technologies HTML, XML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, AngularJS, React.js, Bootstrap, Node.js, BackboneJS  Distributed Technologies RMI, EJB, JMS  Middleware Technologies Web Services (SOAP and Restful)  XML XML Schema, DTD, XSLT  Application Server/Web Server WebSphere, WebLogic and Apache Tomcat, Jetty, Apache ActiveMQ, Apache HTTPD  Modelling Tools Visual Paradigm for UML, Rational Rose, MS Visio  Database Oracle (version -11g, 10g, 9i), My SQL, SQL Server. MongoDB, NoSQL, HSQLDB  Frameworks Spring  ORM Hibernate  Other Tools Log4J, JUnit, Ant, Maven, JIRA, TestRail, IBM Lotus Notes, Gradle, Visual Studio, AWS technologies  Operating Systems Windows, Linux, Unix  IDE Eclipse, Oracle Jdeveloper, NetBeans, RAD  Version Control Tools SVN, CVS, GIT HUB  SQL Tools SQL Developer, Squirrel SQL, SQL Server Management Tool