Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java/J2EE Developer - Highmark Pittsburgh, PA • Over 10+ years experience in Software Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation, Testing, Support and documentation of Client-Server and Web based applications using Java technologies on Windows and UNIX platforms.  • Good experience in programming, deploying and configuring J2EE Applications using BEA WebLogic10.3/9/2/8.1, Apache Tomcat, and Iplanet Servers  • Hands on experience in developing the applications with Java, J2EE, J2EE - Servlets, JSP, JSTL, EJB,SOAP, Web Services, JNDI, JMS, JDBC2,Hibernate,Struts,Spring, XML, HTML, XSD, XSLT, PL/SQL, Oracle10g, DB2 and MS-SQL Server RDBMS.  • Extensive experience in MQ Series (Queue, Queue Connection Factory, Listener Port configuration, Message Driven Bean and Stateless Session Bean development).  • Having very good understanding of middle-ware and application server concepts like Transactions, Security, Connection pooling, Load balancing and Messaging.  • Involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  • Sound knowledge of RDBMS concepts and hands on experience with database Oracle 10g/9i/8i, DB2 and SQL Server 7.0/2000.  • Sound Knowledge and experience in developing and deploying application using JBoss, Glassfish, Sun ONE, IBM Web Sphere and Tomcat 5.0 Servers.  • Troubleshooting experience in bug fixing, code review, Integration and unit testing, using various testing methodologies and tools.  • Closely worked with Release Management Team in doing builds and deploying code into various environments like DEV/QA/SIT/UAT/Prod.  • In depth knowledge of Object Oriented programming methodologies (OOPS) and object oriented features like Inheritance, Polymorphism, Exception handling and Templates and development experience with Java technologies.  • Experience in using Web services and XML related technologies such as SOAP, JAX-RPC, WSDL, SOA, UDDI and Axis, JAXB, DOM (Document Object Model) , SAX (Simple API for XML), Apache Axis.  • Developed several Test Cases for Unit Testing.  • Worked closely with Quality Assurance team in resolving the defects.  • Team Player with good analytical, technical, problem solving, communication and interpersonal skills, with ability to interact with individuals at all levels and can work as a part of a team as well as independently.  • Good experience in configuration management and version control, bug tracking.  • Strong leadership skills.  • Ability to work both individually and in team environments.  • Strong Debugging skills and proven time management skills.  • Good experience in transferring knowledge to Customer Support Engineers on product deliverables.  • Willingness and ability to easily adapt to learn any newer technology or software. Work Experience Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Highmark - Pittsburgh, PA March 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  * Involved in design discussion and various business requirements to identify the requirements.  * Developed front end pages using HTML, JSF, Primefaces, AJAX, CSS, Bootstrap.  * Designed and developed various tables required for storing the data.  * Used various PL/SQL statements to store and retrieve the data from database.  * Written many SQL stored procedures with complex joins involving more than 10 tables.  * Used Log4j for External Configuration Files and debugging.  * Moving files from windows environment to linux environment using winscp.  * Involved in regression testing of the developed functionality.  * Environment: Java 1.8, J2EE, HTML, XML, UNIX, Tomcat 8, SQL server 2012, CVS, JSF 2, primefaces Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Citibank - Charlotte, NC December 2013 to February 2015 Project Name: Limit Exception Bank Application    Responsibilities:  • Involved in design discussion and various business requirement calls to identify the requirements.  • Developed the Functional requirement Document based on the Business Requirement Document.  • Understanding of the citi's eCore UI architecture.  • Designing the Technical detail document based on the Functional requirement document.  • Developing the various screen required for the application which uses eCore technology.  • Developed Spring Batch Program for running the batch jobs to fetch and load data.  • The architecture uses google juice to inject objects and spring batch to achieve the required functionality.  • Designed and developed various tables required for storing the data.  • Coded the service layer where data is manipulated and exceptions are generated.  • Coded the dao layer that is used to fetch data, store data and update data in various tables.  • Coded various POJO classes required to transfer and manipulate the data across various layers.  • Developed webservices to fetch data and display data based on the visibility provided to the user.  • Written various SQL queries to fetch data from the database.  • Involved in integration of service layer and dao layer and also service layer and UI components.  • Supported the application testing and deployment in various environments like DEV, UAT and SIT.  • Supported the testing and involved in bug fixing.    Environment: Java 1.7, J2EE, Maven, SOAP, Web Services, XML, UNIX, Websphere, Sybase, Spring, Solaris 10(SunOS 5.10) Software Developer AT&T May 2012 to December 2013 • Developed different page flows of service guide in Web Logic 8.1 workshop  • Developed, Deployed and maintained several apache web server applications.  • Created several java controls like ejbcontrol, database control, webservice control according to the requirement.  • Created several portlets for service guide portal.  • Implemented and configured Single Sign-on feature to create the ability to login to one application and navigate to the other applications.  • Developed Apache Pluto portlets for web applications.  • Maintained several content management operations using Documentum.  • Maintained several user management activities such adding users deleting users refreshing the user data and synchronizing the user data.  • Experience in implementing JSR 168,286 portlets.  • Implemented content management process using Vignette Content management System.  • Implemented several web services in tomcat for Client server interaction.  • Interacted with back end databases like oracle and Sybase and wrote several pl/sql procedures to generate the reports, feeds for  • Designed, maintained and deployed j application page flows in Web logic 8.1 in Workshop  • Created Classes for input processing according to web logic portal API specifications  • Extensive usage of EJB services for various transaction which are already developed for project  • Implemented several Web services according to requirement  • Managed web Logic portal Server Concepts by creating clusters and other portal administration concepts  • Developed ant Scripts in Unix extensively to deploy several applications.  • Maintained different GUI for displaying several Rate Tables.  • Retrieved data from other resources using content management tool Documentum  • Maintained all the database administrating activities such as daily back ups  • Maintained Several Look and Feel concepts based on the Corporate Standards  Environment: Java, J2EE, Web Logic Portal8.1/7.1, BEA Portal, Oracle, Solaris 8 Windows XP, Documentum. J2EE Developer Verizon Data Services - Temple Terrace, FL January 2013 to November 2013 Responsibilities:    • Involved in design discussions and understanding of business requirements and identify the relevant functional and technical requirements.    • Understanding of frame work and system flow.    • Developing prototype and providing functionality.    • Documenting the Functional and Technical specifications.  • Participate in ICD discussions and update wsdl's and xsd's according to the requirement.  • Involved in coding new api's for cssop interface as per the PCR's.  • Develop and test the code to migrate existing customers to RIV program.  • Supported the application testing in various environments like DEV, SIT, and UAT.  • Worked with production support team to help them understand the application.  • Have written webservices to service various functionality.  • Involved in both client and server part of webservice development  • Have written various shell scripts to test the application.  • Enhancing the existing system with the new requirements and fixing bugs if any.  • Used various PL/SQL statements to store and retrieve the data from database.  • Involved in developing Unit Test cases and testing the Application.  • Used JMS Messaging Service for sending messages.  • Junit test cases were written at each layer to test the functionality.  • Used Log4j for External Configuration Files and debugging.  • Involved in the complete life cycle of the project from the requirements to the production support.    Environment: Java, Java Beans, J2EE, SOAP, Web Services, XML, UNIX, SunOne Webserver, Oracle 10g, Solaris 10(SunOS 5.10) Software Developer FCCI-GROUP - Sarasota, FL March 2011 to April 2012 Description:  Responsibilities:  • Analyzing the requirement documents and converting them to the technical specifications.  • Designing the webservices as per the technical specifications.  • Used Core Java to implement the business functionalities.  • Used JAX-WS webservices to expose the functionality to the presentation layer.  • Used hibernate and wrote various sqls for querying the data from database.  • Used spring framework to inject the DAO and Bean objects.  • Oracle SQL Developer and Toad are used for the database querying.  • Used JMS Messaging Service for sending messages.  • Junit test cases were written at each layer to test the functionality.  • Enhancing the existing functionality to improve performance and bug fixing.    Environment: Java, Webservices, Spring 3.0, Hibernate 3.0, JBoss AS 5.1, Tomcat 5.5.0, Oracle 10g, SVN source management, Maven tools Sr. Java Developer United Health Care - Phoenix, AZ October 2009 to March 2011 Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering requirements for the application.  • Developed business logic and presentation/controller phase.  • Handled Query Functionality in all the Modules.  • Developed action classes, service and DAO layers in all the modules for the query and functionality  • Implemented several Web services according to requirement.  • Developed GUI for query page in End User module.  • Functional analysis, Design and Unit Test Case preparation and review, design and code implementation and enhancements of the application.  • Wrote SQL queries and stored procedures for data manipulation with the Oracle database.  • Data validations performed using Java script.  • CR handling and implementation.  • Testing, Bug fixing and maintenance.    Technology: Java, J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, XML, XSLT, UML, Struts, Web Service, Eclipse IDE, CVS. Java Developer Infosys - Bengaluru, Karnataka March 2007 to September 2009 Responsibilities:  • Extensively involved in designing the database.  • Involved in writing Hibernate queries and Hibernate specific configuration and mapping files.  • Coded JDBC programs for connection to the Oracle Database.  • Developed Servlets and JSPs based on MVC pattern using Struts Action framework  • Deployed into WebSphere Application Server.  • Used Tiles for layout and Apache Validator Framework for Form validation.  • Used Log4J logging framework to write Log messages with various levels.  • Involved in fixing bugs and minor enhancements for the front-end modules.    Environment: Java 1.4, JSP, Servlets, XML, UML, HTML, CVS, Log4J, WebLogic, Web Sphere, Eclipse, Oracle 9i. Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jax, Jax-rpc, Jax-ws, Jboss, Jms, Jsp, Servlets, Struts, Db2, Informix, Mysql, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql Additional Information Skills:    Technologies J2EE,Struts, Spring, JSP, Java Servlets, Hibernate, EJB,JMS, C, C++, XML, XSLT, HTML, CSS, Junit, UML  Databases and Tools Oracle 11g/10g/9i, PL/SQL, MySql, Sybase, Db2, Access, Informix, TOAD, SQL Developer,  Web/Application Servers Weblogic, Websphere, Tomcat, Jboss, Apache,IIS  Scripting Languages JavaScript , Shell Scripting  Webservices SOAP, WSDL, JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, RESTFUL  Messaging JMS,MQ Series  Frameworks Struts, Spring, Hibernate  Version Control CVS, SVN, Maven ANT  IDE's and Utilities Eclipse, Netbeans, Rational Application Developer  Operating systems Windows, Linux and Unix  Protocols HTTP, HTTPS, FTP, FTPS, SFTP, SOAP  Networking Putty, FileZilla, VNC, LDAP, Microsoft Active Directory  Industries Retail, Telecommunications, Banking, Insurance