Sr.Salesforce Admin, Developer Sr.Salesforce Admin,<span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr.Salesforce Admin, Developer - Center Point Energy Houston, TX • Experienced Salesforce professional with more than 9+years in Salesforce.com CRM and Force.com platform with comprehensive understanding of CRM business processes, involved in cycles of implementing Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Call Center and Communities.  • Extensive knowledge of Salesforce.com CRM and its Development Life Cycle as an administrator.  • Experience with Salesforce lightning, migration of sales, marketing, service clouds and communities.  • Good experience with Configuration, Customization, Development and support experience on Salesforce.com Platform.  • Proficient in Salesforce developer toolkit including Apex Classes, Controllers and Triggers, Visualforce, Force.com IDE, Migration Tool, Web Services.  • Hands on experience implementing Security/Sharing rules, Configure permission sets, Field level Security, Record level Security, Profiles, Roles and Resource monitoring at different hierarchical levels of the organization.  • Skilled in customizing Salesforce standard objects like Accounts, Leads, Opportunities, Cases and Campaigns along with good expertise in Data Validation, Sales, Marketing, Customer Service and Support Administration  • Strong Implementation and Integration experience using Custom objects, Triggers, workflows/ workflow rules, approvals, SControls, Visual Force Pages, and Apex classes.  • Experience in data migration using Import wizard, Apex Data Loader and other integration tools like Informatics Cloud, Power Center and Cast Iron, CTI (computer telephone integration).  • Having hands-on experience implementing various advanced fields like Pick lists, Custom Formula Fields, Many to Many Relationships, Lookups, Master-Details, Field Dependencies. Proficient in Validation Rules and Approval Processes for automated alerts, field updates, Email generation as per the application requirement.  • Experience in Integration of Salesforce with in-house legacy systems like Oracle, SAP ERP using Apex Web services WSDL and outbound messaging.  • Good command in database development using SQL/PL-SQL in MYSQL, Oracle and SQL Server.  • Strong communication, organizational and interpersonal competencies along with detail oriented and problem solving skills in the technology arena. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr.Salesforce Admin, Developer Center Point Energy - Houston, TX June 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Gathering of requirements from business and analyzing the technical possibilities  • Used to Lightning Components access at the user, profile, and organization level.  • Created Impressive designs with custom styling to bring dynamic versions of the components when  • setting up in Lightning App builder.  • Created many Lightning Components and server-side controllers to meet the business  • requirements. Experienced in migrating the standard and custom objects in standard experience to  • lightning experience.  • We used to Lightning Components for Community Builder, and the new consumer-based UI instead of having to use other frameworks (like Bootstrap).  • Created multiple Lightning Components, added CSS and Design Parameters that makes the Lightning component look and feel better. Leveraged APEX Controller to make a call for external requests to retrieve data from various API's and displayed them on to the component  • Developed the Custom objects, Validation Rules, Formula Fields, Page layouts, Custom tabs, Components, Custom Buttons and Links.  • Worked extensively on APEX Triggers, APEX Classes, Apex Test Classes, Visual force pages to fulfill various business requirements.  • Actively participated in deployment activities from Sandbox to Production.  • Experienced in the designing UI using Visual force Pages.  • Worked on writing Apex Triggers, Batch Apex and Scheduled Apex.  • Performed administration activities for SFDC including System Configuration, Analytics Reporting, Data Migration, User Acceptance Testing, and End User Training Development & Delivery.  • Worked on querying Salesforce.com database using SOQL&SOSL queries using Force.com explorer.  • Worked on various Salesforce.com Standard Objects like Campaigns, Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Opportunity, Forecast, Cases, Reports and Dashboards.  • Design, and develop Apex Classes, Controller Classes, extensions and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Design, and deploy the Custom objects, Custom tabs, Entity-Relationship data model, validation rules, Workflow Rules, Auto-Response Rules, Page layouts, Components, Visualforce Pages to suit to the needs of the application.  • Worked with Apex Data Loader tool to perform DML operation using CSV files.  • Implemented various advanced fields like Picklist Fields, Master-Detail Fields, Custom Formula Fields, and defined Field Dependencies for custom picklist fields.  • Wrote an Apex Trigger on Contact for cross object field update for reporting purpose.  • Written batch classes to process large volume of data using Apex Batch interface and executed batch classes to run at scheduled intervals by implementing Schedulable interfaces.  • Used SOQL&SOSL for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Developed Test Classes for every Classes, Trigger, Webservices with maximum assurance of code coverage.  • Designed and developed Apex Classes, Controllers and Controller extensions for various functional needs in the application.  Environment: Saleforce.com Platform, Role Hierarchies, Sharing Rules, Email Templates, Reports, Lightining, Dashboards, Cast Iron, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Apex Data Loader, Apttus, Email Services, Security Controls, Market, Informatica, Windows2008, Marketing Cloud, Sales and Service Cloud (CRM Applications). Sales and Service cloud, API's. Salesforce Admin, Developer Discount Tire - Phoenix, AZ September 2016 to May 2018 Responsibilities:  • Design Requirement documents and functional document for the development team.  • Worked in Software development life cycle (SDLC) methodologies like Agile Model and RUP Model.  • Designed and deployed Custom tabs, Custom Objects, Components, Visual Force Pages, validation rules, Approval Processes and Auto-Response Rules for automating business logic.  • Implemented pick lists, dependent pick lists, lookups, master detail relationships, and Record Types to enforce data quality Setup Marketing Campaigns, Assignment rules, Web-to-Lead and Auto-Response rules.  • Worked with Dynamic Apex to access objects and Field describe information, execute dynamic SOQL, SOSL and DML queries.  • Experience in building new apps with the Lighting App Builder and Lightning components.  • Add methods that can be called from Visual Force pages to Controller Extensions.  • Customized dashboards, workflows, alerts and custom validations using OOTB (Out-Of-Box) feature.  • Worked with Apex data loader for inserting different records, updating them, re-assigning account teams and opportunities.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Salesforce APIs, Record types, Reports, Dashboards, Email, Triggers, Sharing Rules, MS Word, PowerPoint, Excel, Validation Rules, HTML5, Messaging, JAWS, Dashboards, SOQL, SOSL, apex language, Single Sign-On (SSO), visual force pages, components and controller, CPQ, CTI, Scontrol, Marketing cloud, Jquery, AJAX, Service Cloud, Sales Cloud, REST, Web Services, SOAP, JavaScript, eclipse IDE plug-in, data loader. Salesforce Admin, Developer Walgreens - Lincolnshire, IL July 2014 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes, extensions and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Configured security by working on Organization Wide Defaults (OWD), Role Hierarchies, Sharing Rules and Manual Sharing to implement Record-based sharing.  • Worked with Apex Data Loader tool to perform DML operation using CSV files.  • Customized page layouts for Opportunity, Contacts, and Accounts depending upon user roles, and groups.  • Defined lookup and master-detail relationships on the objects and created junction objects to establish connectivity among objects.  • Designed various WebPages using VF Pages for capturing various customer enquiries and Implemented logic for migrating cases to different queues based on the type of customer enquiry.  • Performance tune and Optimize frequently used SQL Queries, Indexes and Stored Procedures.  • Involved in the development of SQL Server stored procedures, functions, packages, triggers, SQL and T-SQL scripts.  • Migrated financial transactions using Data loader tools that enabled ease of account reconciliation of various journal accounts.    Environment: Salesforce.com, Security Controls, Escalation rules, Assignment rules, Record types, Custom objects and Fields, Time based triggers, Workflows, Rules, Data loader, SOQL, SOSL, SQL. Java Developer Brown Brothers Harriman - New York, NY March 2013 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  • Gathered user requirements, analyzed and wrote functional and technical specifications  • Designed and developed the user interface using JQuery, JavaScript, and XHTML5.  • Designed front-end, data driven GUI using JSF, ActionScript 3.0, HTML5, JavaScript, DOJO and CSS3.  • Implemented Web Services for communication using SOAP, WSDL and EJB Technology.  • Developed asynchronous, rich user interface with AJAX and rich Internet application embedded with Flex to get user information from the server and project to user.  • Designed, implemented and deployed J2EE web application using JSF and SpringIOC.  • Used Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping (ORM) and data persistence.  • Implemented business processes to develop email notification components using JMSAPI.  • Wrote SQL commands and Stored Procedures to retrieve data from Oracle database  • Used log4j for logging and SVN for version control.    Environment: Java, Servile, JSP, Action Script3.0, HTML5, Hibernate3.2, Spring3.0, XML, CSS3, Flex, JDBC, Eclipse, Struts, HTML5, Java Script, Oracle10g. Java Developer Alliant Credit Union - Des Plaines, IL October 2011 to February 2013 Responsibilities:  • Define and execute a new strategy for improvements in GTS Cash Client on Boarding and electronic Bank account management.  • Developed front-end components using JSP, Struts layout.  • Install, configure and administration of Bea WebLogic Server 8.1/9.x in various environments.  • Involved in JavaScript coding for validations, and passing attributes from one screen to another.  • Used spring aspects for implementing cross cutting functionalities like transactions.  • Used Spring core, Spring Context, Spring MVC Framework etc are used for the application configuration of different components, services in the application  • Used Spring Framework Transaction Management feature called Hibernate Transaction Manager for handling transactions along with Hibernate  • Utilized the weblogic.Admin utility for retrieving and analyzing the Thread dump information, inding the Web Logic's Server state information, license information, storing user credentials etc.  • Troubleshooted emerging application issues, from WebLogic configuration side.  • Used Spring as an integrated framework and implemented IOC concept.  • Defined persistent classes that are mapped to database tables based on the analysis of the business domain.  • Created an XML configuration file for Hibernate Database connectivity.  • Implemented persistence layer using various features of Hibernate framework like HQL queries, Criteria, projections etc.  • Wrote custom JSP tag libraries. Implemented role based handling in JSP pages.  • Used GWT for different modules in the application development and developed user interface.  • Hands on experience of testing services using SOAP UI.  • Carried out bug fixing by rigorous testing using JUnit test cases.  • Defined an interface for integrating business tier of a service with WPS workflow i.e. initiate workflow.  • Documented all stages of the project, generated documentation using Java API Documentation Generator (javadoc).  • Build ear file with jars and war files releasing for Production.    Environment: Java, JSP, Javascript, HTML, IBM WebSphere Application Server 6.1, RAD 7.0, WebLogic server 8.1/9.2/10.0,11g, Apache Axis, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, WSDL, SOAP, JUnit, SOAP UI, Oracle, Red Hat LINUX, IBM AIX. GWT Java Developer Citizens Bank - Fort Worth, TX August 2009 to September 2011 Responsibilities:  • Involved in life cycle, User Interaction, Requirement gathering, Design, Development, Testing, and Implementation, Prepare Business Requirement Document.  • Used Spring MVC Framework Dependency Injection for integrating various Java Components.  • Experience in working with Spring MVC Controllers and Spring Hibernate template.  • Hands on experience with data persistency using Hibernate and Spring Framework.  • Developed the DAO layer using the Hibernate and for real time performance used the caching system for Hibernate.  • Participated in the implementation of client side and server side programming using HTML, Servlets, JSP, and JavaScript and CSS.  • Consumed Enterprise Web Services, generated client using Jersey & Axis Frameworks in RAD IDE.  • Configured the Spring, Hibernate, Log4j configuration files.  • Helped UI to integrate the JavaBeans data using JSTL, springtags.  • Involved in testing and deployment of the application on WebSphereApplicationServer during integration and QAtestingphase.  • Used Maven Scripts to build and deploy applications and helped to deployment for ContinuousIntegration using Jenkin and Maven.  • Wrote SQL queries and StoredProcedures for interacting with the Oracle database.  • Was part of production support team to resolve the production incidents.  • Documentation of common problems prior to go-live and while actively in a Production Support role.    Environment: Java, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services, SOAP, RESTUFL, JDBC, JNDI, Eclipse IDE, XML, HTML, Java Script, CSS, jQuery, Rally, Agile, ANT, MAVEN, JSTL, JUnit, Mockito, SVN, SQL, Oracle, SQL Developer, WebSphere, Centos(Linux), Rational Application Developer(RAD). Education Bachelor's Skills Javascript, Xml, Html5, Soap, Sql, Eclipse, Java, Security, Apex, Sso, Single sign-on, Rest, Force.com, Linux, Unix, Loader, Excel, Marketing Links http://Salesforce.com Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Salesforce Technologies: Languages  Apex, Java, SQL Custom Objects, Roles and Profiles, Workflows, Assignments,  Approvals, Triggers, ecord Types, Dashboards, Roles, Security, Field updates, reports,  SOQL, Visual Force Pages, Apex Classes, Apex Trigger.    Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, XML, REST, SOAP, JavaScript  Operating System Windows, Linux, Unix  Tools  Force.com Eclipse IDE, Apex Data Loader, Force.com Apex Explorer, Single Sign-On  (SSO), Force.com Migration Tool, SOQL, SOSL, Service Cloud, Marketing cloud, Sales  Cloud, Salesforce APIs, Force.com Excel Connector.