Senior Java Developer Senior <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Java Developer - General Motors Duluth, GA Work Experience Senior Java Developer General Motors - Atlanta, GA October 2017 to Present Description:  This project is a short-term project and the goal is to develop the future GM. Development environment with TDD & CICD approach. Here I have worked & developed a CICD. environment where a java developer can work in TDD with possible automation of the tools specified. This project was a projection to migrate or create a new GM Application soon.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in SDLC Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of the application using AGILE methodology (SCRUM) in a TDD approach and in a CICD with Automation environment.  • Developed entire application web-based client implementing MVC Architecture using Spring Framework myself to deploy and test in this environment.  • Used multi-threading.  • Worked with JMS ( java messaging service) for asynchronous communication and with JMS queues for P-P communications and Topics for one- many communications  • Used Git as source control management giving a huge speed advantage on centralized systems that have to communicate with a server.  • Used Hibernate as ORM to map Java classes to data base tables  • Used Java Message Service (JMS) API to create, send, receive, and read messages to main asynchronous.  • Involved in the implementation of DAO using Spring-Hibernate ORM.  • Used Jenkins tool and its plugins to check for any updates and trigger a build automatically if there is a change in the code or environment variables.  • Used Nexus repository to store all the artifacts being deployed and developed from time to time in the whole environment.  • Used Tomcat as an application deployment server and whenever the build is success the application can be readily be deployed to the production environment.  • Used Maven to automate the java class files and automate the java builds through respective maven goals.  • Used Selenium tool to write and automate the tests for the small MVC application developed for a test over the environment.  • Used Testing to automate the unit tests while using the selenium to perform browser integrity and unit test automation.  • Used Static Code Analyzing Tool Check Style to generate the code analysis reports.  • Used Static Code Analyzing Tool Find bugs to generate the code analysis reports.  • Used Static Code Analyzing Tool PMD to generate the code analysis reports.  • Installed and configured the Red hat Linux Environment Box using Linux commands (Linux Administration).  • Have lead a team of 4 people in DEV and QA. Here at GM we have a hybrid environment of DEV and QA they work parallelly.  • Worked with Core Java technologies like Multi-Threading and synchronization.  • Merging and Branching Strategies were proposed and implemented through git.  • R&D over Static Code Analyzing open source tool SonarQube to generate the code analysis reports automatically and quickly.  • R&D over Continuous feedback using slack is done and suggestions have been made to implement them with a small demo implementation.  • R&D over latest OpenShift 3.0 Redhat (PASS) is done and Submitted a document how good it is over the kubernetes and Docker.  • Designed and implemented Amazon Web Services (AWS) cloud-based instances for use on current and upcoming projects.  • Developed and implemented small microservices for the demo and deployed on pods.  • We set up a few multiple EC2 instances for the Availability Zones (AZ) which are redundant in nature.  • Created S3 buckets and managing policies for S3 buckets and Utilized S3 bucket and Glacier for storage and backup on AWS.  • Developed customer portals using Grails and Groovy, leveraging MVC architecture.  • REST Web services written in Groovy/Grails wrapped by JAX-RS.  • Experience Developing application using Groovy, Grails, GSP, GORM and Grails Plugin and Grails Rest Services.  • Responsible for writing the Design Specifications for the generic and application specific web services in Groovy n Grails.  • Implemented AWS solutions using S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, and Auto scaling groups.  • Supported Ansible for the implementation and automation of the infrastructure.  • Provided the full-fledged Documentation on how to build this environment proposed with a clear-cut implementation.  • Have lead a onshore and offshore teams during the Requirement Phase Gathering time respectively.  Environment: Java 1.8, Java Beans, J2EE, REST, Testng,Spring 3.0, JSP, XSD, XMLBeans, tomcat 8,Eclipse neon 2.0, SQL Server, JUnit, Redhat Linux, Git 2.0, Maven 3.3.9, Jenkins, Nexus, SonarQube, Slac, Findbugs, CheckStyle, PMD, Selenium, Dependency Injections, Plugin Management, Ansible, OpenShift 3.0 (Redhat PASS), Merging and Branching Strategies were proposed and implemented. Java Lead Developer AT&T October 2014 to August 2017 BPP ATW/ADT (Business Provisioning Platform)  The project was a multi-application initiative to drive provision design work into a single suite of systems and allows for end-to-end flow through reporting capabilities and covered a wide range of enhancements to the router algorithms and addition of new features to the existing provisioning platforms.  Responsibilities:  • Worked as Lead developer ATW module.  • Developed JSR 286 Portlets in RAD(WSAD) and make inter portlets communication and developed code.  • Configured content for Port  • Involved in Software Development Life Cycle SDLC. Gathering business logic and requirements, then figure out technical solutions for better implementation.  • Developed front-end code with Ajax call in AngularJS, ReactJS and jQuery to retrieve data as JSON Object from controllers, and then display the well-organized result in web pages by writing AngularJS controller, directives, services, and route providers.  • Extensively involved in coding with AngularJS, jQuery UI and jQuery Mobile to add functionalities and effects like Scroll bar, Slider bar, Draggle/Droppable, Resizable, Progress bar.  • Extensively involved in coding with core Java concepts like Collections, Exception Handling, Java I/O, and Generics to implement some business logic.  • Wrote corresponding service to handle the request from front-end pages like transfer funds and view transaction history.  • Extensively involved in writing PL/SQL to implement CRUD Create Retrieve Update Delete data in Oracle Database.  • Developer RESTFULL web services to integrate ADT ATW modules by sending data through RESTFULL web services. JMS Messaging client implemented for various messaging formats  • Implemented Restfull WS to Responding to HTTP Methods and Requests and Using Entity Providers to Map HTTP Response and Request Entity Body.  • Implemented Stateful interactions through hyperlinks between ADT-ATW modules  • Connected to Retail XStore to get circuits for the slots  • Supported for BPP ADT/ATW with CSI to receive Order data trigger. Logs were verified and engage with other team members to resolve the issues while order processing.  • Supported ASOC team, represented ASOC in daily status calls, joining the chat rooms and verifying the logs, debug the code and check configuration and DB entries for the open issues.  • Developed screens for the Circuit Rearrange module migration. Used HTML, jQuery, CSS and Angular JS to develop the web application pages. Used jQuery, NodeJS, Datatable API to select rows and process them with backend business logic.  • Involved in compiling the code for U2L environment migration.  • Configured JUnit framework and done UNIT testing with each module.  • Worked with Jenkins Framework to automate the build process and set up Jenkins to trigger email once the jobs are finished.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Wepsphere Portal server, Content server, Spring framework , Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Scala, JSP, JMS, Servlet, CSS, JavaScript, Perl, NodeJS, Angular JS, ReactJS, Oracle11i, SQL, PL/SQL, Weblogic Server, RESTFULL WebServices, Ant, Eclipse, ESB Integration, DOJO Toolkit 1.3, JNDI, HTML, XHTML JDBC, XML, XSD, XML Schema and JUNIT. Sr. Java Developer, IHG International Hotels Group - Atlanta, GA April 2010 to February 2014 Developer, Application development and maintenance (Developed Application with Java (jdk1.5 and J2EE), Web logic Application server)  IHG is an international hotel company whose goal is to create Great Hotels Guests Love. It has been observed that the current HGP application is facing performance, maintainability and scalability issues. Hence need has been felt at IHG to migrate the HGP application from its current GWT driven presentation layer to a pure Spring MVC based application using standard Java/J2EE technologies like JSP, Customer Tag library, JQuery as needed and other spring features. The new platform should be robust, stable and scalable to provide IHG a next generation platform which can be used to migrate over other brands from Genesis to the stable Endeavor platform.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in document analysis and technical feasibility discussions for implementing new functionalities.  • Applied design patterns including MVC Pattern, Façade Pattern, Abstract Factory Pattern, DAO Pattern and Singleton.  • Involved in migrating the application from Spring 2.5 to Spring 3.0, along with conversion to Standard Spring MVC pattern from existing GWT RPC Pattern.  • Involved in developing front end screens using JSP, JSTL, JQuery, DHTML, HTML5, CSS, AJAX and Javascript. Also, involved in adding the Internationalization to the existing application.  • Excellently handled the cross-browser scripts using JavaScript  • Built JavaScript functions to generate dynamic HTML components including dynamic table list, calendar, spreadsheet, and drop-down menu in Web Center.  • Developed web application using JSF Framework  • Involved in server side and front-end validation using JQuery and JavaScript validation.  • Used Hibernate in Persistence Layer. Developed various Database interaction objects by implementing the DAO patterns and used Hibernate as Model Component.  • Involved in designing the database schemas for the new data layer on Oracle using PL/SQL and also involved in developing interfaces to interact with the underlying Endeavor SDK.  • Involved in writing data extract feeds using Java, JDBC, and XML Digester.  • Extensively involved in developing and writing Maven build scripts for automated build and deployment processes.  • Used Eclipse 3.0 as the Java IDE in the development of the application and deployed to local Resin Pro App Server.  • Used SVN as source control repository.  • Involved in Unit Testing and Bug-Fixing and achieved the maximum code coverage using JUNIT test cases.  • Implemented log4j by enabling logging at runtime without modifying the application binary  • Configured and Programmed Serial and parallel communication between Legacy components  • and J2ee application for message transfers between Queues and Topics  • Enterprise Application Integration: - legacy application components are integrated with new Components through serial messaging (Queue).  • Programmed with JMS Interfaces and Message classes to make durable communication and can interact with each other via messaging because JMS Configured organizations to cooperate without tightly coupling their business systems.  • Geographically dispersed units: - JMS can ensure safe exchange of data amongst the geographically dispersed components of an organization.  • JMS Topics programmed with JMS API to the applications that have to push data in packet to huge number of clients in a one-to-many fashion are good candidates for the use JMS to make a facility in application to Auction Quote sand utility Services.  • Integrated by implementing interfaces with SCALA in IBM Specification Systems.  Environment: Java jdk, JEE, JSP, Scala, WebLogic Application Server, BEA WebLogic Portal 10.X, IBM RAD, Ant, Oracle Database, SQL, PL/SQL, WebCenter, JavaScript, CSS, JSON, DOJO, SOAP, WSDL, JMS, MDB, Web Services, XML, Log4J, XML Schema, XSD, JAXB, JUnit, SVN, JSP, Hibernate Java Developer American Arbitration Association (AAA), _New York, NY September 2009 to March 2010 Prism: This project has following arbitration modules  • Case Intake Management  • Hearing scheduling  • Neutral, Arbitrator Selection, Ranking and Appointment  • Award Management  • Communications Module  Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the middleware services that meet the business by utilizing java, Hibernate 3  • Implemented UI Tier with JSP, Servlet, JSF, XML, XML Schema, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX  • Developed JSF managed beans and backing beans and configured JSF navigation in faces-config.xml  • Partial page submissions and AJAX, AJAX Push implemented with JSF ICEFaces.  • Developed XML Schema (XML XSD)  • Backend tier implemented with Hibernate and DAO Design Pattern  • Developed web services and SOAP Messages with XML, SOAP and WSDL  • User help tooltips implemented with Dojo Tooltip Widget with multiple custom colors  • Implemented Asynchronous communication between components with JMS API and MDB  • Developed UNIX shell script for copying, removing and deploying java applications to Application server.  • Developed JUnit test classes for Unit testing and methods  • Developed interface classes to access content from WCM Content stores.  • Error Messages, Messages implemented with Log4J  • Implemented Logging and Exception Handling with custom Exceptions framework  Environment: Java 5, JEE, JSF, IBM Web Sphere 7, RAD 7, Ant, Oracle Database, SQL, PL/SQL, JavaScript, CSS, JSON, DOJO, SOAP, WSDL, JMS, MDB, Web Services, XML, Log4J, XML Schema, XSD, JAXB, JUnit, SVN, JSP, Hibernate Sr Java Developer AT&T - Atlanta, GA January 2009 to August 2009 SBOT-BYOB (Small business ordering tool - Build your own bundle)  This is an online ordering tool for small business. AT&T provides for small business customers various product bundles to order from online. This BYOB helps small business customers to build their own bundle of products from AT&T available products catalog. This product integrates with IPC (Integrated Product Catalog and pricing system).  SuperN: This is an online ordering tool for Personal (individual) customers. This product provides services to individual customers to customize product bundles and make orders from online AT&T website.  Responsibilities:  • Developed Struts action classes, Action Forms and Struts validation classes to implement UI Layer  • Configured Actions for UI navigation in struts-config.xml  • UI Layer implemented with Struts, Struts validation, Struts Tiles, JSP, XML, CSS, XHTML, JavaScript, DOJO, AJAX  • Implemented DAO and Business layer with Hibernate, JMS, XML, XSLT, XML schema and J2EE Patterns  • Implemented XML parsers with SAX, DOM, and JAXB XML Parser Libraries to Modify User view of Products and Product information in Customized view with XML, XSD, XSTL in HTML, XML, PDF formats.  • Developed Web services, WSDL, SOAP Messages and Attachments to Integrate SuperN and SBOT-BYOB with IPC(Integrated Product Catalog and pricing System)  • Developed JUNIT Test classes.  • Developed complex queries to retrieve products based on region and service address and implemented PL/SQL stored procedures and Functions.  • Tooltips implemented with DOJO Framework.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Hibernate, Struts and Validation, JSP, Servlet, CSS, JavaScript, Oracle10G, SQL, PL/SQL, Weblogic Server, Ant, Eclipse, JUnit, DOJO Toolkit 1.3, Log4J, JavaScript, AJAX, CSS, JNDI, JMS, HTML, XHTML, Informatica PowerCenter, Ipalnet Web server, JDBC, XML, XSD, XML Schema Lead Developer University of Michigan (UoM) MCIT - Ann Arbor, MI July 2008 to December 2008 Involved in implementation of enhancements of Hospital System applications using Spring framework, JPA ( Java Persistence API), JSF, Facelets, Hibernate, XML, LDAP and Web services, JBoss app server. IRIS (Imaging record Information System) Audit trail and Security modules implemented for HIM (Hospital Information Management) group, Finance, Charity and Billing groups. Implemented Classification manager for Major, Minor, Valid Document Codes, Form designators and Care Web sub codes. DIRS (Document Imaging resource system) Quality measurement of Vendor scanned image document implemented for MCIT group using Hibernate and Struts framework. DocImport, Imaging DataModel Implemented Work List and Document List related operations for the imported scanned documents for Major and Minor codes    Responsibilities:  • Implemented UI Layer using JSF, Managed Beans, Backing Beans and Facelets.  • Used JSF expressions in rendering content and validation  • Consistence User Interface Look and Feel implemented with CSS style classes  • Developed Domain java objects with Java Annotations and configured in JPA persistence.xml file  • Developed common Imaging Data model services for IRIS and DIRS applications.  • Developed Spring framework DAO Layer with JPA and EJB3 in Imaging Data model and DocImport,  • Developed CMP and Stateless session beans for DocImport Middle Layer.  • Implemented EJB 3 Annotations for Entities, Relations and Transactions (Declarative Transactions)  • Spring container managed transactions implemented.  • Developed service Layer in Imaging data model for IRIS and DIRS application  • Developed Unit test classes using JUnit.  • Prepared SQL queries for the Classification manager module in IRIS application  • Implemented Hibernate Dao and services with Hibernate and Oracle 10g.  • Developed services to connect to IBM WCM using ISRA adapter API to get Image metadata.    Environment: Java, J2EE, EJB3, JPA, JSF, JSF Formatters and Validators, JSP, Servlet, IBM WCM content Management, CSS, JavaScript, Oracle10G, SQL, PL/SQL, JBOSS 3.X, Ant, Eclipse, JUnit, JNDI, JMS, HTML, XHTML, JIRA, SVN Java Developer Pfizer, CT October 2006 to June 2008 Clinical sciences  RDE (Raw data Extract) indexing, searching and retrieving  The goal of the Raw Data Extract (RDE) project is to provide a tool that will allow statisticians to pull data from ClinGen data schemas into a formatted extract that can be subsequently imported into Number of different tools used for statistical analysis. MP (Molecular Profiling) The MP Project Tracking tool will provide a tool to automate the processes of managing the portfolio of projects for MP so that the current state of MP projects can be viewed and acted upon with confidence. The MP Project Tracking tool will be implemented in a series of phased releases starting with the core immediate needs of MP and expanding from that until the complete tool is completed  ClinGen (ClinicalGenetics)The purpose of the Clinical Genetics System (ClinGen) is to support the analysis of anonymous biological sample (genotypic) and clinical (phenotypic) data from clinical studies. TM (Translation Medicine) the Biomarker Project Tracking tool automates current manual processes-including manual entry and collation of Excel sheets. It will be a web-based tool the tool will offer immediate efficiencies to the TM business team while the larger, integrated TM solution is being created.  Responsibilities:  • UI Layer implemented with Struts classes, CSS, AJAX, JSP, HTML, java script and Implemented validation and Tiles framework  • Implemented XML data formats to transfer data between layers in the form of XML streams. Used XSLT to change the Data formats into XML to XML and XML to PDF formats.  • XSLT is used to convert XML format into PDF format.  • Business layer and service Layer implemented with J2EE Patterns, Hibernate and EJB.  • Implemented Flex Action script and MXML Pages for UI  • Developed JMS and EJB (MDB, Session beans) classes and deployed  • Developed JSF framework Backing classes and Utility classes.  • JSF Navigation configured in JSF configuration file and Its Backing beans  • Implemented Java Internationalization(I18N) and Localization  • Developed UNIX Shell scripting.  • Developed and implemented CORBA IDL interfaces and Implementations.  • Developed database schema, ER Diagrams, sql queries, PL/SQL Functions stored procedures and database maintains database scripts.  • Developed Pl/SQL programs (Stored Procedures, Function, Synonyms).  • Developed DBMS_JOBs to load compounds.  • Implemented Image and Content services and deployed to IBM WCM content server.  • Implemented Image manipulation services with IBM WCM Content server and deployed.  • Developed stored procedures, functions to manage datasets.  • Developed triggers, synonyms and views and Written SQL queries.  • Developed Web services and WSDL files.  • Applications maintained and supported on production instance and environment.  Environment: Java, J2EE, STRUTS, SPRING, JSF, JSTL, Servlets, Hibernate, JDBC, CORBA, IDL, IDL2java, Weblogic, IBM WCM Content server, Junit and Log4J, Adobe Flex, GWT, MXML, XML, XSD, XML  Schema, Eclipse IDE, Informatica PowerCenter, Google plugin for eclipse, JavaScript, CSS, AJAX, Oracle10g RAC, SQL, PL/SQL, XSL, XSLT, AIX and Windows XP. Java Developer Premier Global services - Atlanta, GA May 2005 to September 2006 PGiMarket: Helps Business to grow by providing various marketing and communication tools.  Responsibilities:  • Implemented Java objects with Java APIs for programmatic access to content and process capabilities.  • Implemented business process design, systems integration, and application design and management  • Implanted Events and Subscriptions.  • Created and manage object stores and file stores.  • Implemented Security and permissions for EJB Functions with LDAP and ACL  • Implemented Java security Manager to access EJBs and Business functions with Java Security API  • Configured SSL and ACL list.  • Implemented models Image capture capabilities.  • Designed and implemented backend database schema using ERWIN and Oracle RDBMS.  • Developed JSPs, servlets, JSR 168, 286 Portlets, struts and utility java classes  • Developed XML, XSD, XML schema and Parser with SAX and DOM  • Implemented web services from session beans to give access to production scheduling slot availability for the dealers to schedule their specific models  • Implemented portlets and portal using pages and desktop, skins and skeletons.  • Implemented java Internationalization (I18N) and Localization  • Implemented front end with JSP, Servlets and Struts Frame work, Validation, Tiles.  • Implemented JMS senders and receivers and integrated applications with MQSeries.  • Implemented O-R Mapping XML Files, POJO Objects and business logic to make DML operations with Hibernate framework.  • Implemented remote web services for portlets with wsrp portlets  • Developed backend stored procedures.  Environment: IBM RAD, Websphere , WebSphere Portal server, Java, J2SE, j2EE, Struts, Internationalization (I18N), XML, JSR 286 Portlets, MQSeries, JMS, JNDI, Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL, Sybase ASE, Documentum, Business Process Framework, Workplace, WCM, Hibernate, Ant, VCS, SOA, SOAP, WSDL and Web services, ERWIN, RUP, JUnit, Documentum, Log4J, UNIX. Skills AWT, BEA, BEA WEBLOGIC, ECLIPSE, J2EE