Java /J2EE Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> /J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java /J2EE Developer Java, SD • 8+ years of experience in working with the web based applications, hands on experience in the analysis, design patterns, development client and server applications, implementing and testing with the use of Java, and Core Java.  • Experienced in all phases of Software development life cycle (SDLC) including analysis, design, coding and testing, expertise in integration using J2EE architecture.  • Have very strong inter-personal skills and the ability to work independently and with the group, can learn quickly and easily adaptable to the working environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java /J2EE Developer Harris Corporation - Melbourne, FL November 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in software development life cycle starting from requirements gathering and performing Object Oriented Analysis. Followed Agile SCRUM methodology and used Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Experience working with RSpec and Cucumber in a TDD and BDD test driven environment.  • Involved in group meetings with Managers, Team Members in designing, implementing and testing.  • Involved in writing UNIX Shell and Perl scripts for automation of deployments to Application server.  • Used SOAPUI for the functional testing and inspection and invocation of Spring based Web Services.  • Designed and Developed the Automation Testing Framework using Java, Selenium Web Driver and TestNG Automation Framework.  • Automated test cases using Selenium. Involved in automation infrastructure development using selenium.  • Designed and implemented Product search Java Spring boot service to fetch the data from Elastic help of Elastic native queries. Used Microservices architecture with Spring Boot based service through REST.  • Involved actively performance tunings in Java spring boot layer, elastic side and production issues. Used SOAPUI for the functional testing and inspection and invocation of spring based Web Services  • Did performance and load testing by using JMeter. Involved in testing and quality assurance  • Setup JMeter for analyzing and measuring performance on web services  • Writing Scala classes to interact with the database. Deploy and manage applications to Tomcat servers.  • Deploy and manage applications on JBOSS/Tomcat J2EE server. Managed the codebase using GIT.  • Worked with Java Transaction Management to work on multiple databases.  • Developed user interface using JSF, HTML5, AngularJS, jQuery and performed client-side validations using Java Script, AJAX and CSS. Involved in running Hadoop jobs for processing millions of records of text data.  • Identified usability and develop functional and smooth, easy-to-operate and eye-catching web applications using EXT JS, Angular JS and react JS. Involved in creating a reusable component using React JS for DOM manipulation  • Extensively used Core Java such as Multi-Threading, Exceptions, and Collections.  • Implemented wizard using Responsive Web Design. Migrating application to AWS Platform.  • Use Amazon Cloud Watch metrics to monitor the health and utilization of AWS resources  • Design applications on AWS taking advantage of disaster recovery design guidelines  • Application deployment and data migration on AWS. Used Scala for coding the components in Play and Akka.  • Worked on handling all the requests to the systems using Play framework MVC framework  • Developed shell scripts, python scripts to check the health of Hadoop Daemons and schedule jobs.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface. Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Built main applications in Python, Django leveraging technologies such as Tasty pie, Angular.js, Backbone.js and Ember.JS. Implementation & design of bean orchestration using Apache Camel.  • Developed Restful Web Services using Spring Boot and configured Cucumber as testing tool.  • Used Design Patterns like Singleton, Factory, Session Facade and DAO. Handled HP Fortify issues, Sonar, PMD.  • Worked on Single node/Multi-cluster setup using technology NoSQL and MongoDB.  • Update the data from PostgreSQL database automatically by the time detective function.  • Implemented Model View Controller (MVC) architecture Using Spring framework at the Web tier level to isolate each layer of the application to avoid the complexity of integration and ease of maintenance.  • Developed Form Beans and Action Classes to model views and client-side functionality.  • Built centralized logging to enable better debugging using Elastic Search Log stash and Kibana.  • Efficiently handled periodic exporting of SQL data into Elastic search.  • Experience in implementing J2EE Design Patterns like MVC, Session Facade, DAO and Singleton.  • Used Maven to build, test and deploying purposes. Used clear case version control for source code.  • Involved in debugging the application modules. Deployed application using AWS services.  • Used Log4j for logging and debugging and used JUnit extensively for testing.  • Used Web Sphere Application Server for deploying various components of application.    Environment: Java, J2EE, CI/CD, Spring, JSF, Prime faces 3.2, Web Services , Microservices, Restful, SoapUI, Cucumber, Apache CAMEL, Tomcat, JMeter, JUnit, JBPM, DROOLS, cloud, Hadoop, IBM Web Sphere App Server, AWS, Elastic search/NoSQL , Scala, IBM Clear case, IBM Clear Quest, MongoDB, HTML5, PYTHON, CSS, Perl(5.12), IBM RAD, JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQuery, AngularJS, ReactJS, Maven, AJAX, XML, XSLT, Java Beans, Responsive Web Design, UML, Design Patterns, log4j, Agile Methodology Full Stack Java Developer Landstar System - Jacksonville, FL January 2016 to September 2016 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of application developed using AGILE SCRUM methodology.  • Architected, designed and implemented a SPA (Single Page Application) in Angular JS which consume JSON from a Spring MVC, using Spring Security to secure the Application.  • Implemented nested views and routing using Angular UI Router as per the requirement. GUI was developed using JSP, HTML, and Angular JS and created reusable components in Angular JS using Custom Directives Filters, Services and Partials.  • Exposed RESTful web services using JAX-RS. Implemented Angular promises to handle asynchronous communication with our Restful API for various requirements.  • Developed pages using Angular JS directives, expressions, routing capabilities for bookmarking, filters, validations and Angular UI components such as grid, buttons, carousels, date pickers, modal dialogs and other input components.  • Used Angular JS Routing for navigation between nested HTML views in the application and created Angular Js custom directives that were used along with HTML elements for DOM manipulation.  • Performed unit testing using Karma & Jasmine at Server side and Mocha in client side following test driven development (TDD).  • Mainly involved in development and maintenance of the website using Python, HTML5, CSS, AJAX, J-Query, DOJO, JavaScript, Angular JS.  • Involved in the preparation of use case, sequence diagrams, class diagrams, activity diagrams etc. using Rational Rose. Involved in developing reusable core libraries using core java Classes and Interfaces.  • Used Express JS to route different endpoints, made RESTful WEB SERVIVES to manipulate data in MySQL.  • Worked with Mongo DB write concern to avoid loss of data during system failures and implemented read preferences in Mongo DB replica set.  • Created ant build files to create the WAR files and involved in development of the system using the Spring MVC framework. Involved in development of Hibernate objects in order to persist data into the database.  • Responsible in writing SQL scripts and creating backend database table for complex business operations. Participated in consuming web-services using SOAP that allowed integrating the business application with the legacy applications and also facilitates for future applications.  • Developed queues using AWS SQS with JMS for services to subscribe and listen events. Implemented logic to listen and to subscribe events.  • Worked on Mongo DB concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, sharing, replication, schema design.  • Used Angular JS Routing for navigation between nested HTML views in the application and created Angular Js custom directives that were used along with HTML elements for DOM manipulation.  • Used Log4j API for logging in development, testing and production environments, configured to send email notifications.  • Implemented version controlling using GIT and used Jenkins for continuous integration.  • Configure REST controllers, view resolver components and implemented transaction management using Spring declarative transaction management with Spring AOP concepts.  • Wrote build & deployment scripts using Maven on UNIX environment and integrated using Jenkins.  • Used GIT for version control and used eclipse as the IDE for developing the application, Used Rational Clear Quest for defect fixing. Involved in guiding, mentoring new contractors to understand the application.  • Co-ordinated with QA lead for development of test plan, TDD, test cases, test code and actual testing responsible for defects allocation and resolution of those defects and used selenium.    Environment: J2EE, JDK, HTML, CSS, Ajax, Angular UI, JQuery, Express Js, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.js, Bootstrap, , Spring, Hibernate, PL/SQL, AWS, Web Services (SOAP), JMS, RESTful, Multithreading, WebSphere 8, Apache, Maven, MongoDB, JMS. UI Developer AT&T - Middletown, NJ June 2014 to December 2015 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Worked on an Agile (Scrum) Development Team to deliver regular updates to business team and project managers.  • Used HTML, CSS, and JavaScript for designing web application layout and form.  • Worked on local Storage to store & retrieve insensitive user data during transition between the different pages.  • Involved in designing the web pages using HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript and Sencha EXT-JS , SASS, Mongo DB.  • Developed the application following MVVM architecture by developing models, view models in the application.  • Developed the views using various EXT-JS layouts and used various components such as grids, panels, inputs etc..  • Configured Ajax requests to load the data from the server using EXT AJAX and took part in testing the application.  • Responsible for refactoring existing jQuery/Ajax front-end web application into EXT-JS.  • Configured Sencha CMD to compile, build and create production ready code for the application deployment  • Used Web Developer tools, Firebug and IE developer toolbar for debugging and to check the browser compatibility and  • Responsible in implementing CRUD operation using Spring Jersey based JAX-RS implementation.  • Developed Spring Data Mongo repositories for performing data retrievals from Mongo db.  • Performed Java Classes to Mongo dB collection and document mappings using Spring Data.  • Configure and monitor numerous MongoDB and NoSQL instances. MongoDB Schema Design using DB Ref, Manual Ref, Embedded Data Model Design.  • Performed end to end testing using Selenium web driver, Jbehave and Testing.  • Developed server-side software modules and client-side user interface components deployed entirely in Compute Cloud of Amazon web Services (AWS).  • Developed scripts for build, deployment, maintenance, and related tasks using Jenkins, Docker, and Maven. Used GitHub as a version control, and JIRA for tracking bugs.  • Took part in setting up builds and deployments using Teamcity.  Environment:  HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Sencha EXT-JS 5, MongoDB, Agile, SASS, Firebug, REST web service, Spring, Web Matrix, HP Quality Center, AWS, Jenkins, Docker, Maven, GitHub, Jira, Team City Sr. Java/J2EE Developer American Family Insurance - Madison, WI January 2013 to December 2014 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life cycle (SDLC) of the application like requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and code development using Agile/ Scrum methodology.  • Developed Object diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence diagrams using UML.  • Used HTML, JSPs, JavaScript, CSS as a front end GUI with middle tier framework as Hibernate using HQL and Struts using MVC framework.  • Traded data with web server using AJAX without reloading the web page and used JDBC to manipulate the data on the System database Server.  • Developed custom tags, JSTL to support custom user interfaces.  • Created Stateless and Stateful session beans for accessing and mutating Entity beans and used JMS to communicate between the components and configured on the server.  • Designed SOA implementations by Using Web Services-WSDL, UDDI and SOAP for getting credit card information from third party vendors.  • Designed and implemented XML parsing for XML order conformations, used JSF framework in developing user interfaces using JSF UI components, validator, Events and listeners.  • Used DOM for parsing the XML, XSLT Document and used JAXB parser for parsing the valid XML files.  • Created Managed bean used to instantiate backing beans used in a JSF application and stores them in a Scope.  • Designed various tables required for the project in Oracle database and used the Stored Procedures in the application.  • Developing in built traditional java web application using JSF and RICHFACES and created database pool, multi-pool, data source and mapped them to roles.  • Framework leverages JSF features like Event handling, Validation mechanisms and state management.  • Have written PL/SQL stored procedures and involved in performance tuning of complex queries.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4j and fixed the problems and used JNDI to read the details of the login users.  • Used Multi-Threading to overcome the errors in the process of transactions and used JUnit to do unit testing for the modules developed  • Developed the different components of the application such as JSPs, Servlets, and DAO and used build ANT scripts and deployed the application on Web sphere Application Server.  Environment: Java1.6, JDBC, Servlets 2.5, J2EE, JSP, JSF 2.0, JavaScript, Rich faces Hibernate 3.2, Struts 2.0, DAO, CSS, HTML, XML, AJAX, DOM, JUnit, JTA, ANT, JMS, PL/SQL, Apache Axis, SOA, MVC, Web Services, IBM WebSphere 7, Oracle 10g, log4j, JNDI, Eclipse. J2EE/ Java Developer Arvind Mills - IN June 2009 to November 2012 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Performed analysis for the client requirements based on the developed detailed design documents.  • Involved in analysis, design and development of project and implemented OOPS concepts.  • Involved in designing the user interfaces using JSP and used the Spring MVC framework for developing the web applications.  • Implemented Spring for cross cutting concerns and IOC pattern and also configured Hibernate 2.0 for the application.  • Designed application with HTML, JSP, Ajax/JQuery, Struts Tag-libraries. Designed custom JSP tags for role-based sorting and filtering.  • Used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database and used Hibernate Query Language (HQL) to query the database for complex data.  • Developed server-side services using Java multithreading, Struts MVC, Java, Springs, Web Services (SOAP, AXIS).  • Configured hibernate with spring and used Spring JDBC while dealing with the database.  • Involved in using web services -WSDL and SOAP for getting credit card information from third party and implemented Business processes like user authentication, transfer of services.  • Used Soap UI for load testing the Web services and involved in creation of various DOA (Data Access Objects)  • Deployed the application on to Web sphere application server.  • Used AJAX4 JSF components for AJAX functionality in UI screens and Used JMS ( JAVA Messaging Service) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information.  • Used XML parser APIs such as JAXP and JAXB in the web service's request response data marshalling as well as un-marshalling process.  • Used log4j API for logging application flow and debugging.  • Used CVS for version control across common source code used by developers and Developed J-Unit test cases for all the developed modules. Used Tortoise CVS as a code repository to manage project code and used JIRA as a defect tracking system for the application.  • Responsible for application setup and configuration in the development, QA and Production environment and preparation of the timely builds using ANT, releases, and deployment on Tomcat Server for web applications and web portals respectively.  • Extensively involved team player in troubleshooting, bug fixes ,change requests and enhancements for the webservice.  Environment: JDK 1.5, Hibernate 2.0, Struts, Spring 2.0, JSP, Servlets, JMS, XML, SOAP, WSDL, JDBC, JavaScript, UML, HTML, JNDI, CVS, log4j, Web sphere Application server, Oracle 10g, Rational Rose, Eclipse. Education B. Tech JNTU Hyderabad - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills AJAX (8 years), Database (8 years), Java (8 years), JavaScript (8 years), user interface (8 years), Java J2Ee, Rest, Spring, Soap, Hibernate, Angular, J2Ee, Core Java, JEE, Angularjs, AWS, MVC, JSP Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCY    Category Expertise/Tools  Java Technologies  • JDK (1.5,1.6,1.7,1.8), Servlets 2.5,3.0, JSP 1.2/2.0, HTML, EJB 2.0/3.0, JDBC 2.0, JNDI, ANT, JMS, Swing, XML(DTD & Schema), Java Beans, JAXP (DOM-SAX),Web services (SOAP,WSDL), AJAX (JQuery framework)    Frameworks • Struts 1.2/2.0, JSF 1.2/2.0, Spring 3.0/4.1, Hibernate 2.0/3.0  Development Tools  • Eclipse, Ant, Maven, Toad 8.5, SQL Developer, Web logic Workshop 8.1, My Eclipse 8, WebSphere Studio Application Developer 5.1, RAD 6.0, Log4j, JUnit, WebSphere Message Broker Toolkit, WebSphere MQ, JIRA    Web / Application Servers • IBM Web sphere Application Server (8.1), Web logic (10x), Tomcat 7.0, JBoss 7. Apache.  Front End UI • Angular.JS, HTML 4.01/5 , XML, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS 2/3, Bootstrap , AJAX, SASS, Selenium, Cucumber  Database • Oracle 10g/9.x/8.x, DB2, SQL Server, My SQL, Mongo DB, AWS  Operating System • Windows, Linux (Ubuntu),Unix  Version Controls • CVS, SVN, GIT