Sr. JAVA/J2EE Developer Sr. <span class="hl">JAVA</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. JAVA/J2EE Developer - McKesson Technology Dulles, VA ? 8+ years of experience in design, development and implementation of software applications using Java, J2EE, technologies. Having good experience in the Information Technology Industry and also healthy participation in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including analysis, design, coding  ? Experience in Web Application Development, Client-Server based Enterprise Applications, System Analysis, Technical Design, B2B Implementation, Performance Tuning and Testing.  ? Experience in Pair Programming, Test Driven Development, Waterfall model and Agile methodologies like SCRUM.  ? Cloud based deployment experience on Amazon EC2 and their other offerings like S3 and AWS  ? Application Development and Object Oriented Programming Analysis and Design (OOAD).  ? Expertise in Object Modeling with Use Cases, Sequence, Activity and Class Diagrams using UML 1.4 and 2.0 with IBM Rational Rose and Microsoft Visio.  ? Expertise using and deploying enterprise applications in JBoss AS, Weblogic and Tomcat.  ? Experience in open-source technologies such as Ant, Maven, NetBeans and Eclipse IDE.  ? Experience in using Design Patterns such as MVC, Singleton, Decorator, Composite, Command and frameworks such as Struts, Hibernate and Spring.  ? Utilized the features of Spring Framework like AOP and developed light weight components and have experience in implementing the Spring Web MVC.  ? Expertise in design Information Architecture and Solution Architecture.  ? Expertise in writing Stored Procedures, Cursors, Functions and performed data analysis using PL/SQL.  ? Thorough understanding of Database Application Designs and Implementation using Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g, SQL Server and MS Access.  ? Good understanding of PL/SQL Normalizing and De-Normalizing Databases for performance and adjust to data abstraction layers needs as Hibernate.  ? Implemented the application logic using Struts.  ? Experienced in process, validate, parse, and extract data from .xml file.  ? Extensive experience in Java development GUI using Swing.  ? Experience in development GWT application.  ? Extensive experience in using various UML, Rational Rose, design patterns and industry best practices such as MVC (Model-View-Controller), Singleton, Facade, Factory and DAO, DTO, singleton.  ? Experience in the development of various web applications with open source frameworks like: JSP, JSF, Spring Framework (MVC) 2.5, 3.0, Struts Framework, Java script, Angular JS, HTML, and CSS.  ? Designing, implementing and testing of Business Rules mainly through Decision Tables using core Drools API.  ? Expertise in Web-Development technologies like Servlets, JSP,JSTL, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, XML, XSL/XSLT, AJAX, JQuery.  ? Used various Core Java concepts such as Multi-Threading, Exception Handling, Garbage Collection, Collection APIs to implement various features and enhancements.  ? Extensively experienced in Middle Tier Development using Servlets, JSPs, and EJB.  ? Strong skills include SOAP, WSDL and UDDI technologies of Web services.  ? Expertise in using Custom Tag Libraries for embedding dynamic code into JSP pages.  ? Experience in developing applications using Core Java(Multithreading, I/O Stream, Collections, JDBC , JAVA BEANS)  ? Worked experience in Hibernate and JPA ORM tools. Have good knowledge of JDBC connectivity.  ? Extensive experience in working IDE tools like Eclipse, Net Beans, RAD, WID (Web Sphere Integration Designer).  ? Used JNI Framework to enable access to the native applications in different platforms.  ? Expertise in various Java/J2EE design patterns including Data Access Object, Session Façade, Business Delegate, Service Locator, MVC (Model View Controller), Factory and Abstract Factory, Front Controller, Transfer Object and Singleton in the development of Multi-tier distributed Enterprise Applications.  ? Developed new scaling code for the Vast backend using Amazon's web services (EC2, S3, SQS and Simple DB)  ? Extensive experience in SQL, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers with databases such as Oracle, My SQL and MS SQL Server 2008.  ? Good knowledge and experience with multiple Servers like IBM Web Sphere,IBM Web Sphere ESB(Enterprise Service Bus), Web Logic server, Apache Tomcat  ? Expertise in HTML, XHTML, HTML5, Java-Script, CSS, AJAX, JQuery, JSTL specification, XML (SAX, DOM), XSL, XSLT, JAXP, JAXB, DTD, Resource Properties.  ? Used Angular JS for designing web pages in MVC Architecture.  ? Experience in creating dynamic, interactive data visualizations in web browsers using D3.js.  ? Experience in creating, validating and parsing XML documents  ? Extensive knowledge of XML-based standards and protocols (such as WSDL and SOAP), Service Oriented Architecture (SOA), development of XSD schemas and implementing both SOAP and RESTFUL web services.  ? Experience in Integrating Various Mainframes like Cobol II And CISC with other components of project.  ? Experienced in generating logging by Log4j to identify the errors in production test environment and experienced in Ant, Maven and Gradle tools.  ? Hands on experience using Messaging Services like JMS, MQ Series, Active MQ  ? Experience in writing test cases in Java environment using JUnit.  ? Good debugging skills - deep diving into technical issues, collaborating with cross-domain experts, handling clients with different priorities and mind sets, both onsite and remote.  ? Excellent organizational skills with a strong technical background.  ? Have excellent Analytical, Problem solving, Communication and Interpersonal skills, with ability to interact with individuals at all levels and can work as a part of a Team as well as independently. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. JAVA/J2EE Developer McKesson Technology - Dulles, VA August 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Involved in creation of Low Level Design including sequence diagrams and class diagrams to comprehend the existing architecture.  ? Evaluated suitability of Hadoop and its ecosystem to the above project and implemented various proof of concept (POC) applications to eventually adopt them to benefit from the Big Data Hadoop initiative.  ? Worked in a team that built big data analytic solutions using Cloudera Hadoop Distribution.  ? Imported data from RDBMS (MySQL, Teradata) to HDFS and vice versa using Sqoop (Big Data ETL tool) for Business Intelligence, visualization and report generation.  ? Involved in various POC's to choose right big data tools for business use cases.  ? Expertise in Big data technologies like Apache Spark, H20, Elastic Search, Cassandra, YARN, Hive, Storm and Kibana.  ? Working on Apache spark "In memory computational framework", HBASE/Mapp-M7, HIVE, Core Java to create matching/Linkage batch jobs in Big data Environment.  ? Involved in the integration of spring for implementing Dependency Injection.  ? Developed code for obtaining bean references in Spring IOC framework.  ? Focused primarily on the MVC components such as Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers, Model and View Objects, View Resolver.  ? Involved in creating the Hibernate POJO Objects and utilizing Hibernate Annotations.  ? Designed and developed software applications using Java, Multithreading, Servlet, AngularJS, Bootstrap 3, JSP, JSTL, HTML, JavaScript, Groovy, Grails, EJB, JMS, XML, XSL, JSF, Ajax, JQuery, Adobe Flex 3, GWT, ADF etc.  ? Developed back-end using RESTful Web Services, Spring, Hibernate, Oracle and Groovy/Grails script with Java code.  ? Wrote controllers with Groovy to connect front-end interfaces with java services on Grails framework.  ? Designing, implementing and testing of Business Rules mainly through Decision Tables using core Drools API  ? Implemented mock services in node.JS with the help of modules using ExpressJS.  ? Develop and maintain Node.js, HTTP, and RESTful server code, as well as corresponding web browser.  ? Creating technical rules using drools.  ? Built applications for scale using JavaScript, NodeJS, and React.JS.  ? Used Hibernate, object/relational-mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data.  ? Developed the application using Eclipse 3.4 as the IDE and used eclipse standard/plug-in features for editing, debugging, compiling, formatting, build automation, test case template generation, mutator/accessor code generation, and version control (SVN).  ? Involved in development of RESTFUL Web Services using Spring MVC to extract client related data from databases.  ? Worked in Agile development environment.  ? Asynchronous messaging is executed by utilizing JMS API for point-to-point messaging.  ? Developed Web Services using WSDL, SOAP to communicate with the other modules.  ? Developed Graphical User Interfaces using UI frameworksAngular JS and Webpage's using HTML and JSP's for user interaction  ? Involved in writing Oracle PL/SQL Stored procedures, triggers, views.  ? Involved in the implementation of DAO using Spring-Hibernate ORM.  ? Used Web Logic Application server to deploy and restart web applications.  ? Implemented as well as exposed SOAP web services using Apache Axis.  ? Implemented Java/J2EE Design patterns like singleton,MVC, Builder and Strategy patterns.  ? Involved in the creation of exhaustive JUnit Unit Test Cases using Test Driven Development (TDD) technique.  ? Installed, configured, and managed the servers (Amazon Web Services, Linux, Tomcat, Apache, MySQL, MongoDB, etc.)    Environment: JDK 7, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services (SOAP and RESTFUL), AWS,JMS, JavaScript, JSP, XML, XSD, XSLT, Oracle PL/SQL, Maven, Angular Js, JUnit, Agile/Scrum Methodology, SVN Version Control, Oracle 10g, Web Logic Server, Eclipse IDE, DAO, Design patterns, Log4j, AWS. Sr. JAVA/J2EE Developer Oracle - Minneapolis, MN June 2013 to July 2015 Description:    Responsibilities:  ? Worked closely with Business Analysts, Project Managers and Project Leads to transform business requirements into Java code.  ? Involved in design discussions and understanding of business requirements and identify the relevant functional and technical requirements  ? Involved in various phases of Software Development Life cycle (SDLC) of the application.  ? Implemented Multi-Threaded Environment and used most of the interfaces under the collection framework by using Core Java Concepts.  ? Delivering Seminars on Big Data and Hadoop to create awareness/interest among the technical staff.  ? Frontend Development using Knockout, Angular, and various node.js modules.  ? Responsive UI using Angular, React, Redux and various node.js modules.  ? Worked on Node Rest framework for backend services used Mongo DB for database services.  ? Designed, developed, implemented, and maintained custom Ant tasks in Java and Groovy.  ? Implemented dual security application using Java/Groovy/Grails that eradicates the hazard of compromised credentials during authentication.  ? Developed and executed software systems utilizing JavaScript and Groovy.  ? Designed and developed Groovy Grails applications for end users.  ? Creating Knowledge Bases in Drools Workbench (Business Rules Manager  ? Created the Node.js EXPRESS Server combined with Socket.io to build MVC framework from front-end side AngularJS to back-end MongoDB, in order to provide broadcast service as well as chatting service.  ? Passionate towards working in Big Data and Analytics environment.  ? Implemented solutions for ingesting data from various sources and processing the Data utilizing Big Data Technologies such as Hive, Spark, Pig, Sqoop, Hbase, Map reduce, etc.  ? Successfully migrated Legacy application to Big Data application using Hive/Pig/HBase in Production level.  ? Constantly learning various Big Data tools and provides strategic direction as per development requirement.  ? Expertise in designing and deployment of Hadoop cluster and different Big Data analytic tools including Pig, Hive, HBase, Oozie, ZooKeeper, SQOOP, flume, Spark, Impala, Cassandra with Horton work Distribution.  ? Worked on analyzing Hadoop cluster using different big data analytic tools including Kafka, Pig, Hive and Map Reduce.  ? Developed Map Reduce programs in Java to help the analysis team to read, write, delete, update and analyze the big data.  ? Experienced in Cloud Computing with Amazon Web Services like EC2, S3 and Kinesis Streaming which provides fast and efficient processing of Big Data.  ? Expertise in using cloud services (AWS) EC2, S3 Storage, Kinesis for multiple Big Data PoC's.  ? Developed Restful web services for the project as per the business requirements.  ? Involved in developing XML Schemas and used JAXB for marshalling/un-marshalling.  ? Used JAX-WS (SOAP) for producing web services and involved in writing programs to consume the web services using SOA with CXF framework  ? Used SOAP in integration with various mainframes components like SOAP for CICS, CICS Transaction Gateway(CTG) and CICS Web Support (CWS).  ? Worked with Jenkins in continuous Integration by using GIT tool and executed projects in Apache Maven and Ant.  ? Used JSP's HTML on front end, Servlets as Front Controllers and JavaScript for client side validations.  ? Used Angular Js in dynamic binding of html web pages using the MVC architecture.  ? Used D3.js to apply data driven transformations the document and in modifying the document using w3 API Dom.  ? Created controller Servlets for handling HTTP requests from JSP pages.  ? Developed few web pages using JSP, JSTL, HTML, CSS, Java script, Ajax and JSON.  ? Worked on Angular framework along with the bootstrap framework to devolpe the page and make it responsive  ? Designed and implemented scalable, secure cloud architecture based on Amazon Web Services.  ? Used their Proprietary framework to implement rules and validations for front end.  ? Involved in writing POJO classes, XML configurations.  ? Involved in defining DAO interfaces and writing SQLQueries.  ? Hibernate 3.0 is implemented for mapping object-oriented domain model to Oracle.  ? Implemented several Java/J2EE design patterns like Spring MVC, Singleton, Spring Dependency Injection and Data Transfer Object.  ? Wrote build scripts for compiling and creating jar files using Maven for the application.  ? Involved in fixing of defects and enhancements.  ? Used multithreaded environment to run the processes asynchronously using different future calls to access the data.  ? Good hands on UNIX commands, used to see the log files on the production server  ? Involved in Unit Testing and Integration Testing of the application using Junit, Mockito.  ? Used static analysis tools to make sure the code maintains all standards.  ? Used Clover to maintain code coverage for the entire project.  ? Used Log4j to print logging, debugging and warning information.    Environment: JDK1.6, J2EE, JSP 2.0, Core Java, Spring 3.0, Spring DAO, Ajax, JSON, WebSphere, Eclipse 3.6.0, Log4j, Oracle 11g, SQL developer, Web Services-RestFul, JAX-RS, Angular Js, D3.js, Hibernate 3.0,AWS, SVN, CSS, Maven, XML, Windows-XP, Unix. Sr. JAVA/J2EE Developer Bank Of America - Chicago, IL October 2011 to May 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC): Requirements gathering, Design, Code, Integrate, and Deployment and production phases.  ? Implemented Struts Framework1.2 along with JSP2.0, Struts Tiles, and Struts Tag libraries to facilitate user interface design.  ? Developed validations using Struts validation framework.  ? Developed Stateless Session Beans to transfer calls from presentation tier to data services tier.  ? Adapted various design patterns like Business Delegate, Singleton, Service locator, Session Façade, Data Transfer Objects [DTO] and Data Access Objects [DAO] patterns.  ? Created reusable templates using Angular directives and worked with npm package manager tools (NodeJS) and build tools like gulp.  ? Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Backbone.JS, Require.JS, Node.JS, Knockout.JS and Ember.JS.  ? Design and development of a proof-of-concept real-time notification system using Node.js.  ? Used Web Services to communicate with different application.  ? Creating Knowledge Bases in Drools Workbench (Business Rules Manager  ? JAXB parser for marshaling and un-marshaling.  ? Developed the credit check module using Servlets and JSP& Core Java components in Web logic Application Server.  ? Designed EJsB2.1 like Stateless Session Bean for the Session Facade design pattern.  ? Used Hibernate3.1 to store the persistence data into the Oracle9i database.  ? Used Spring2.0 Framework to integrate the application with Hibernate3.1.  ? Used IBM MQSeries for enterprise level messaging system.  ? Working with WSDL and SOAP messages.  ? JMS was used to send/receive asynchronous data from various message brokers  ? Involved in writing the ANT scripts to build the application.  ? Involved in using Log4J to create log files to debug.  ? Used Rational Clear case for version control.  ? Used JUnit Testing Framework for Unit Level Testing.  ? Worked in IBMRAD 6.0 to develop complete application  ? Deployed the application on Web Sphere Application Server6.0 (WAS)    Environment: WAS 6.0, RAD 6.0, Core Java, Struts 1.2, Spring2.0, EJB 2.1, Servlet 2.3, HTML, JSP 2.0, JNDI, Web Services, JMS, SOAP, IBM MQSeries, JavaScript, JQuery, JProbe, PMD,WSDL, UNIX, Oracle 9 JAVA/J2EE Developer HSBC - Bengaluru, Karnataka January 2010 to September 2011 Description:    Responsibilities:  ? Worked in Agile methodology environment including Test Driven Development with Continuous Integration/Delivery.  ? Participated in business meetings along with business analysts to record user requirements, and developed design artifacts and published.  ? Used Spring MVC3.0 architecture, Servlets, spring tags, and JSTL on the front end.  ? Implemented spring IOC to resolve dependency injection.  ? Involved in building web service.  ? Used Maven to build, run and create JARs and WAR files among other uses.  ? Implemented JDBC template in the data access object layer to access and update information in the Oracle9I Database  ? Wrote test cases in JUnit for unit testing of classes.  ? Published and consumed RESTFUL Web Services for transferring data between different applications.  ? Developed the front end of the application using HTML, CSS, JSP, and JavaScript.  ? Used Hibernate as ORM tool to store the persistence data into the MySQL database.  ? Participate in the software design, development and package implementation using the Hybrid platform.  ? Involved in Architecture, design and development using JSF/ADF, jQuery, and Spring MVC framework with AOP concepts.  ? Used Eclipse 3.8 IDE for developing code modules in the development environment.  ? Implemented the logging mechanism using log4j framework.  ? Used SVN version control to track and maintain the different version of the project.  ? Scheduler to compare the output and re-run the failed requests repeatedly.  ENVIRONMENT: Java/J2EE 1.5, JAXB, MySQL, IBM WebSphere, Tomcat Application Server , Web Service- RestFul, HTML, CSS, Spring 3.0, Hibernate 3.5.6, Eclipse, Maven, JUnit , Log4j, SVN, Servlets, JSF, jQuery, JSP, JavaScript. JAVA/J2EE Developer Mphasis - Bengaluru, Karnataka March 2009 to November 2009 Description:    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the Analysis, Design, Implementation and Testing of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the project.  ? Assisted the analysis team in performing the feasibility analysis of the project.  ? Designed Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams and Sequence diagrams and Object Diagrams in the detailed design phase of the project using Rational Rose 4.0.  ? Developed presentation layer of the project using HTML, JSP 2.0, JSTL and JavaScript technologies.  ? Developed complete Business tier using Stateless and Stateful Session beans with EJB 2.0 standards using Web Sphere Studio Application Developer (WSAD 5.0).  ? Used various J2EE design patterns, like DTO, DAO, and Business Delegate, Service Locator, Session Facade, Singleton and Factory patterns.  ? Consumed Web Service for transferring data between different applications.  ? Used Object/Relational mapping Hibernate 3.0framework as the persistence layer for interacting with Oracle 9i.  ? Extensively used IBM Web Sphere 5.0 while writing code and for creating Data Sources.  ? Written complex SQL queries, stored procedures, functions and triggers in PL/SQL.  ? Configured and used Log4J for logging all the debugging and error information.  ? Developed Ant build scripts for compiling and building the project.  ? Used IBM Web Sphere 5.0 for deploying the application.  ? Used CVS Repository for Version Control.  ? Created test plans and JUnit test cases and test suite for testing the application.  ? Participated in the production support and maintenance of the project.  Environment: Java 1.4.1, JSP 2.0, HTML, JavaScript, EJB 2.0, Struts 1.1, JDBC 2.0, IBM Web Sphere 5.0, XML, XSLT, XML Schema, JUnit 3.8.1, Rational Rose 4.0, Ant 1.5, UML Oracle 9i Education Bachelor's Skills HTML (8 years), J2EE (8 years), JAVA (8 years), JavaScript (8 years), JSP (8 years), JDK 7, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services (SOAP and RESTFUL), AWS,JMS, JavaScript, JSP, XML, XSD, XSLT, Oracle PL/SQL, Maven, Angular Js, JUnit, Agile/Scrum Methodology, SVN Version Control, Oracle 10g, Web Logic Server, Eclipse IDE, DAO, Design patterns, Log4j, AWS (8 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Platforms UNIX, Windows 8/10/ XP/2000  Languages Java, SQL, UML, C and C++  J2EE Technologies JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JMS, JSTL, XML/XSL  J2EE MVC Frameworks Spring Core, Spring MVC, Spring DAO, JSF  GUI Development JavaScript, HTML, CSS, DHTML  ORM Frameworks Hibernate, JPA, DAO  UI JS Frameworks JQuery, Ajax  Application Servers Web sphere, Web logic, Jboss  Web Server Tomcat  Web Technologies Angular JS, Html, Html5, DHtml, Xml, Xslt, Javascript, Ajax, JQuery, JSON,D3.js, CSS.  Mainframes CICS, COBOL II  Portal Server Web Sphere Portal  IDE's Eclipse, JBuilder, IBM RAD and Net Beans  Database Oracle, DB2, MySQL, Microsoft SQL Server 2008.  Design Tools RSA, Rational Rose  Design Patterns MVC, Business Delegate, Factory, Adapter, Singleton, Session DAO, Front Controller, Data Transfer Object Façade  RDBMS Oracle10g, SQL Server  Version Control CVS, SVN, Clear case,  Testing JUnit  Methodologies Agile, Waterfall,