Lead/Sr. Java Developer Lead/Sr.<span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Lead/Sr. Java Developer - Center Mexico City Lake Mary, FL ? Over 12 years of experience in JAVA/J2EE. JAVA, J2EE, Spring, Spring Boot, Spring REST, Microservices, Spring Cloud, Spring Security, Spring MVC, Spring Data, Hibernate, JPA, Mybatis, JSF, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, UML, JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, WSDL, EJB 3.0, Stateless and Stateful Session Beans, Entity Beans, Container and Bean Managed Persistence and Distributed Computing Model.  ? 10+ years of experience in Design and Development Experience in Web Applications. Since raw servlets, JSP, JSTL, to Java Server Faces, Spring MVC and Struts 2.  ? Managed quality software using n-tier J2EE application architecture using JAVA, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, JSF, EJB, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, JDBC, XML, and XSLT.  ? Implementing and developing over application generator: JHipster.  ? Build and design front pages using HTML, Javascript, jquery, bootstrap, CSS and knowledge of Angular 2.0 and 4.0.  ? Designed and helped team members in developing various infrastructure components for the Web, Middle tier and for Data Access.  ? Made deliverables and met milestones in the face of moving priorities and constrained resources.  ? Experience in working with cross-functional teams. Experience in working with offshore teams.  ? Work experience with Software, Banking, Healthcare, Government, and Education and Telecom industries.  ? Made assignments, monitored progress, set communication criteria and escalated causes for delays to the upper management immediately.  ? Expertise in Server-side programming and testing applications for all test phases: unit, system, integration, product test phase, and automation test with Selenium and Protractor.  ? Advanced experience with Agile, SCRUM, PSP and Traditional methodology.  ? Knowledge in Linux and Unix, and thorough understanding of coding, design, documentation, unit testing, change management, deployment and release procedures.  ? Basic knowledge of PM, SAFe and TOGAF. Work Experience Lead/Sr. Java Developer Center Mexico City December 2018 to Present Mexican Government is trying to change the way to procure all the supplies and services, creating modern systems that have interoperability with Government Institutions among others SAT (Federal Taxes), TESORO (System for make payments) and IMSS (Health Public Federal provider).    Responsibilities & Accomplishments:  ? Analyze, Develop, Build, Test & Deploy components using Java 1.8, Spring Technologies, Spring Boot, Spring REST, Spring Cloud, Spring Data JPA, Protractor and JHipster.  ? Create Controllers, Restful Services API endpoints for various services as needed.  ? Consume XML data, JSON data in controllers and in service layers as needed and call other services or persist data as needed.  ? Create configuration centralized with spring cloud.  ? Deploy application with Jenkins, take code direct from git repository.  ? The message or data interchange with Microservice will be in JSON format which is light when compared to XML format.  ? Test the API developed using Postman API testing tool. Create and execute SQL queries in Dbeaver.  ? Develop the application based on technical design and followed the development and business process while developing application.  ? Clone the repository using Git Console, improving development productivity. Commit and Push the code to the repository as needed.  ? Create Automated Tests with protractor.  ? Fixed bugs, perform regression testing after change etc.  ? Lead and Attend daily scrum meeting with the team and report on the status of work.  ? Coordinate with Management and with other teams and helping them in resolving issues and kept management in loop by providing status updates on issues etc.  Environment - Java 1.8, Microservices, Spring, Spring Boot, Spring REST, Java Message Service (JMS), Postman, Hibernate, Maven, Git, Tomcat 8, Windows 10, Agile, Scrum, Sprints, Angular. Sr. Java Developer Tata Consultancy Services - Santa Fe, NM November 2017 to December 2018 Responsibilities & Accomplishments:  Online Portal Web for Citizen Clients is a portal that offers information about credit and debit cards, billing accounts, transfers, payments and many services focus at the personal client.  ? Analyze, Develop, Build, Test & Deploy components using Java 1.7, 1.6, Spring Technologies, Struts, Jquery and Jasper Reports  ? Consume XML data, JSON data in controllers and in service layers as needed and call other services or persist data as needed.  ? Test the API developed using Postman API testing tool. Create and execute SQL queries in Dbeaver for Oracle 11g.  ? Develop the application based on technical design and followed the development and business process while developing application.  ? Clone the repository using Git Console, improving development productivity. Commit and Push the code to the repository as needed.  ? Develop test cases and executing it.  ? Fixed bugs, perform regression testing after change etc.  ? Attend daily scrum meeting with the team and report on the status of work.  ? Use Websphere application server.  ? Coordinate with Management and with other teams and helping them in resolving issues and kept management in loop by providing status updates on issues etc.  Environment - Java 1.7, 1.6, Spring, Spring Boot, Spring REST, Websphere, Postman, Hibernate, Maven, Git, Tomcat 7, Windows 10, Agile, Scrum, Sprints, Angular. Sr. Java Developer Spring Technologies - Mexico City, MX November 2016 to December 2017 Secretary of Education has a Portal which have among others: Register students, Teachers, Publish Study plans.    Responsibilities & Accomplishments:  ? Analyze, Develop, Build, Test & Deploy components using Java 1.7, Spring Technologies, Spring MVC, Jquery, Bootstrap, MyBatis and Jasper Reports.  ? Consume XML data, JSON data in controllers and in service layers as needed and call other services or persist data as needed.  ? Test the API developed using SOAP UI testing tool. Create and execute SQL queries in Dbeaver for Oracle 11g.  ? Develop the application based on technical design and followed the development and business process while developing application.  ? Clone the repository using Git Console, improving development productivity. Commit and Push the code to the repository as needed.  ? Develop test cases and executing it.  ? In Business Tier, worked with spring framework to develop the core business of the application.  ? Fixed bugs, perform regression testing after change etc.  ? Lead daily scrum meeting with the team and report on the status to the Project Manager.  ? Planning for the team activities.  ? Use glassfish application server and Tomcat.  ? Coordinate with Management and with other teams and helping them in resolving issues and kept management in loop by providing status updates on issues etc.  Environment - Java 1.7, 1.6, Eclipse Neon, Spring, Spring Boot, Spring REST, Websphere, Postman, Hibernate, Maven, Git, Tomcat 7, Linux, Agile, Scrum, Sprints. Sr. Java Developer MOVILE Polanco, Ciudad de Mexico February 2016 to December 2016 MOVILE is a company which provides many services such as mobile recharges, entertainment applications, providing mobile services.    Responsibilities & Accomplishments:  ? Analyze, Develop, Build, Test & Deploy components using Java 1.8, Spring Technologies, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Security, Bootstrap, Spring Data Jpa, Spring AOP, Spring Template, Postgres and MySQL.  ? Consume XML data, JSON data in controllers and in service layers as needed and call other services or persist data as needed.  ? Test the API developed using Postman API testing tool. Create and execute SQL queries in Dbeaver for Postgres and MySQL.  ? Develop the application based on technical design and followed the development and business process while developing application.  ? Clone the repository using Git Console, improving development productivity. Commit and Push the code to the repository as needed.  ? Propose solutions for problems with interoperability issues. Using Json exchange data for communications.  ? Develop test cases and executing it.  ? In Business Tier, worked with spring framework to develop the core business of the application.  ? Fixed bugs, perform regression testing after change etc.  ? Use Embedded Tomcat and deploying through Jenkins.  ? Coordinate with Management and with other teams and helping them in resolving issues and kept management in loop by providing status updates on issues etc.  Environment - Java 1.8, Eclipse Mars, spring, Spring Boot, Spring REST, Tomcat, Postman, JPA, Gradle, Git, Tomcat 8, Linux, Agile, Jquery, ThymeLeaf. Sr. Java Developer AMK Technologies Insurgentes Sur, Ciudad de Mexico August 2014 to February 2016 AMK Technologies is a company which mainly provides consultancy services, implementing solutions and human resources also have a lot of software in house and supporting services.    Responsibilities & Accomplishments:  ? Develop and Maintain projects in house also contribute, support and develop applications in site with clients. Take decisions over stack technologies for many projects.  ? Analyze, Develop, Build, Test & Deploy many components using Java 1.7, Java 1.6, Spring Technologies.  ? Create Projects with EJB 3, Spring, MyBatis, Spring AOP, JPA 2.0, Hibernate, Spring Security and MongoDB.  ? Create Web Services with CXF.  ? Consume XML data, JSON data in controllers and in service layers as needed and call other services or persist data as needed.  ? Deploy application with Jenkins, take code direct from git repository.  ? The message or data interchange with Microservice will be in JSON format which is light when compared to XML format.  ? Test the API developed using SOAP UI. Create and execute SQL queries in Dbeaver.  ? Develop the application based on technical design and followed the development and business process while developing application.  ? Clone the repository using Git Console, improving development productivity. Commit and Push the code to the repository as needed.  ? Participate in decisions that involves stack technologies and architecture projects.  ? Planning Sprints for projects.  ? Fixed bugs, perform regression testing after change etc.  ? Lead and Attend daily scrum meeting with the team and report on the status of work.  ? Coordinate with Management and with other teams and helping them in resolving issues and kept management in loop by providing status updates on issues etc.  ? Worked with various tools like Putty, MTPutty, WinScp, TortoiseSVN etc.  ? Get code from version control, analyze, debug, fix, deploy dashboard code.  ? Develop the application based on technical design and followed the development and business process while developing application.  ? Created various infrastructure components for various tiers such as Business tier, Integration tier and Database tier.  ? In Business Tier, worked with spring framework to develop the core business of the application.  ? Modify build scripts, pushed changes to version control and deployed Java projects successfully using Jenkins.  ? Creation batch scripts on linux.  Environment - Java 1.8, 1.7, Eclipse Mars, Spring, CXF, Spring REST, Tomcat, Postman, JPA, Maven, Git, Tomcat 7, SOAP Web Services, REST Services, Active MQ, Unix Mac OSX, Agile, Jquery, MongoDb, Jboss, Glassfish web, Glassfish application server. Sr. Java Developer Secretaria de Hacienda y Crédito Público - Mexico City, MX September 2013 to August 2014 Secretaria de Hacienda has many in house applications, whose propose is administration of resources for states, give support to Mexican movies and theater.    Responsibilities & Accomplishments:  ? Analyze, Develop, Build, Test & Deploy components using Java 1.7, Java EE6, Spring Core, Spring AOP, Java Server Faces, JPA, Javascript and Oracle 11g.  ? Implement Java Managed Bean to communicate with JSF Pages.  ? Create and execute SQL queries TOAD for Oracle.  ? Develop the application based on technical design and followed the development and business process while developing application.  ? Version code with tortoise SVN across some branch versions, improve development productivity.  ? Propose solutions for problems with interoperability issues.  ? Develop test cases and executing it.  ? In Business Tier, worked with spring framework to develop the core business of the application.  ? Fixed bugs, perform regression testing after change etc.  ? Use Oracle Application Server for deploying applications in production environment.  ? Coordinate with Management and with other teams and helping them in resolving issues and kept management in loop by providing status updates on issues etc.  Environment - Java 1.7, Eclipse Kepler, Spring core, JAX-WS, JAX-B, , Java Server Faces, Oracle Application Server, Tomcat, Soap UI, JPA, Maven, SVN, Tomcat 7, Windows, Traditional Programming. Sr. Java Developer Health Digital Systems (HDS) Insurgentes Sur March 2011 to September 2013 Health Digital Systems was a company which used to provide administration focus at health systems. The main system had many modules, including scheduling system and medical record.    Responsibilities & Accomplishments:  ? Lead a combining onshore - offshore team.  ? Analyze, Develop, Build, Test & Deploy components using Java 1.6, Java EE5, Spring Core, Spring AOP, JAX-WS, JPA, Javascript and Oracle 11g.  ? Create and supporting scripts in QA and production environments.  ? Deploy applications with Jboss 3.7, 4.2 and 6.0.  ? Create and execute SQL queries TOAD for Oracle.  ? Develop the application based on technical design and followed the development and business process while developing application.  ? Version code with tortoise SVN across some branch versions, improve development productivity.  ? Propose solutions for problems with interoperability issues.  ? In Business Tier, worked with spring framework to develop the core business of the application.  ? Fixed bugs, perform regression testing after change etc.  ? Lead and Attend daily scrum meeting with the team and report on the status of work.  ? Create and planning work plans.  ? Use JBoss for deploying applications in QA and production environments.  ? Coordinate with Management and with other teams and helping them in resolving issues and kept management in loop by providing status updates on issues etc.  Environment - Java 1.6, Eclipse Juno, Spring core, JAX-WS, JAX-B, Jquery, SOAP web services, Oracle Application Server, Tomcat, Soap UI, JPA, Maven, SVN, Tomcat 7, Windows, Linux, Scrum. Java Programmer IUSACELL Mexico City November 2010 to March 2011 Iusacell was telecom company (now at&t) and used to offer many services among others cell phone services, geolocation, client and enterprise services.    Responsibilities & Accomplishments:  ? Gather requirements from the Business Analysts. Analyze and convert requirements into technical design.  ? Create robust design by implementing various design patterns and best practices throughout the application.  ? Migration applications from Java 1.4 to Java 1.6.  ? Analyze, Develop, Build, Test & Deploy components using Java 1.4, 1.6, Java EE5, Spring Core, Spring AOP, JAX-WS, JPA, Javascript and Oracle 11g.  ? Developed the application based on technical design and followed the development and business process while developing application.  ? Created various infrastructure components for various tiers such as Business tier, Integration tier and Database tier.  ? In Business Tier, worked with spring framework to develop the core business of the application.  ? In the database tier, involved in working with Oracle databases.  ? Used Oracle Weblogic Application Servers to deploy applications.  ? Used Maven tool to build the application.  ? Integrate the project in clear case. Build, deploy and promote the projects to Unit and Test environments.  Environment - Java 1.4, Java 1.6, Java servlets, JSP, JAVA EE, Spring Framework, JSF, Hibernate, WebServices using SOAP, XML and JAX-WS, Eclipse, Oracle, DBVisualizer,Websphere, Glassfish application server, Windows 7. Business Analyst/Jr Center Mexico City February 2008 to October 2010 Java Developer    I did my Social Service Program there, and start to work too. This position was focused at only one system: SIAPEF. SIAPEF concentrated variables information (as recaudation taxes information, population, oil gather, etc. of the whole states in order to calculate federal resources to give it to the states according to the Mexican's law.    Responsibilities & Accomplishments:  ? Analysis and designing user stories. Modeling UML diagrams according to the analysis.  ? Gather requirements from the Business Analysts. Analyze and convert requirements into technical design.  ? Migration applications from Java 1.4 to Java 1.6.  ? Analyze, Develop, Build, Test & Deploy components using Java 1.5, Java EE4, Spring Core, Spring AOP, JAX-WS, JPA, Javascript and Oracle 10g and 9i.  ? Design prototypes for Java Senior Developers, explaining the required functionality.  ? Developed the application based on technical design and followed the development and business process while developing application.  ? Created various infrastructure components for various tiers such as Business tier, Integration tier and Database tier.  ? In Business Tier, worked with spring framework to develop the core business of the application.  ? In the database tier, involved in working with Oracle databases.  ? Used Oracle Weblogic Application Servers to deploy applications.  ? Used Maven tool to build the application.  ? Integrate the project in clear case. Build, deploy and promote the projects to Unit and Test environments.  Environment - Java 1.5, J2EE, JPA 1.2, Java 1.2, XSL-FO, Jasper Reports, Spring Framework, Hibernate, JPA, Eclipse Europe, Stateless Session Bean (SSB), Stateful Session Bean, DBVisualizer, TOAD, OAS, Oracle 10g, Oracle 9i, FileZilla on Windows 7. Education B.S. In System Computer Engineering in System Computer Engineering Escuela Superior de Computo 2008 Skills ECLIPSE, EJB, JAVA, HIBERNATE, JAVA TECHNOLOGIES, Java J2Ee, Spring Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Frameworks  Model View Controller (MVC), Spring Framework, Spring MVC, Struts 2, Java Server Faces - JSF, Facelets, Hibernate, Ajax4JSF, Log4J, JUni, Apache CXF, ThymeLeaf.    Java Technologies Java 1.4, 1.5, 1.6, 1.7, 1.8, Applet, Swing, JDBC, RMI, Multi-threaded applications.  JEE Technologies JEE Architecture, JSP, Servlets, JMS, Java Persistence API - JPA, EJB 3.0, JNI, JSTL, EL, JNDI and JTA.  Cloud Experience in Amazon Web Services S3, DynamoDB, RedShift.  Design skills  OOA (Object Oriented Analysis) & OOD (Object Oriented Design), AOP (Aspect Oriented Programming), Design by contract, JEE & EJB design patterns, and UML, BPMN.    Methodology Agile methodology, Rational Unified Process (RUP), TDD (Test Driven Development)  Rational Tools Rational Software Architect, Rational ClearCase, Rational Suite ClearQuest, Rational Suite Enterprise  Servers Java, C++, IBM WebSphere 3.5/4.0/5.0/6.0/7/0/8.5, JBOSS 3.2.6, 4.2, WebLogic 5.0, 6.1,OAS, IIS, Glassfish Server 3.0 Glassfish 5.0, 6.0,  IDE's Eclipse Oxygen, Eclipse Neon, Eclipse Mars, Eclipse 2.1.0, Rational Application Developer V6, RAD V7.5, IntelliJIDEA 2017  Web Technologies HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Jquery, Java Server Faces JSF 1.1, AJAX, JSON, Rest Services, Soap Services, DOJO Toolkit  RDBMS Oracle 8i/9i, 10g, 11g, Microsoft SQL Server 2005, MySQL, Informix, ,  RDBMS Tools DBveaber, DBVisualizer, SQL Server Management Studio Express, TOAD (Tool for Oracle Application Developers).  Microsoft Tools MS Office, Microsoft Visio Professional, Microsoft Office Outlook, Microsoft Project, Sharepoint, Microsoft Lync  Atlassian Tools Confluence, JIRA  Other  SOAP, SoapUI 5.0.0, Web services, XML, XSD, XSL, XSLT, XSL-FO, WSDL, JAXP, DTD, XSLT, CVS. Ant, Maven, Gradle, MQ Series, Active MQ, Subclipse, Subversion, PuTTY, Kitty, Telnet/SSH Client, Apache Rabbit, Websphere MQ 7.0, Git, Tortoise Git.  Non relational databases: MongoDB, Elastic Search, Redis.