Sr. Software Developer Sr. Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Software Developer - Randstad Technologies Phoenixville, PA Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Sr. Software Developer Vanguard - Malvern, PA January 2019 to Present The Advice Data web service is a REST web service which provides advice to consumers to increase their savings, manage their existing loans and helps them to invest in Vanguard managed funds. The enterprise advice application can be integrated with any third part financial organization. The third-party agents can freely use the Vanguard Enterprise advice application to provide advice to their customers to achieve their Retirement Goal. The Goal Projection webservice collects the data from Advice Data Web service, Risk Tolerance web service, Financial Projection web service and Data Aggregation service and returns a response to the calling service. It act as a Façade service.    PROJECT #1 - Advice Data and Goal Projections webservice  • Designing and Developing the Advice Data Webservice.  • Have created the Advice Profile ID for the profile  • Have processed the goals, extraordinary expenses, personal savings, income, etc with advice profile  • Have written API Spec for new REST Webservice endpoints using Swagger Editor  • Have created DynamoDB Tables using Cloud Formation Templates using Amazon Webservices with Partition Key and Sort Key  • Have created Lambda Templates using Cloud Formation Templates  • Have implemented Lambda Functions using Python with DynamoDB Streams to capture the History of the Advice Data Table.    • Have run Swagger Lint for api-spec and fixed errors/warning to make sure api-spec is without any errors  • Have developed all the CRUD operations in web services  • Have saved the data in Amazon Dynamo DB.  • Have used Postman to test the REST Webservices  • Have written security tests like Authentication, Authorization, Input Validation, Cache control, CSRF, etc.  • Have written JUnits using Mockito with 100% Line and 100% Branch coverage  • Have written unit tests to have 100% Mutation coverage  • Have written Integration Tests using cucumber  • Have developed Back end logic using JAVA 8  • Have written unit test for python using nosetest  Environment & Tools: JAVA, J2EE, SPRING, Spring Boot, Lombok, JMeter, Amazon Web Services, DynamoDB, REST Webservice, Kibana, UNIX, SONAR, JUnit, cucumber, Mutation Testing, Postman, Splunk, Python etc. Sr. Software Developer United Health Care Group - Eden Prairie, MN April 2018 to April 2018 The Integrated Eligibility is a Project which determines the eligibility of a person who can receive State Services like SNAP(Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program) also known as Food Stamps, TANF(Temporary Assistance for Needy Families), Medicaid, etc. who has little to no income. The Agency Portal and Client Portal helps the state department of West Virginia to determine the eligibility of the person. The Agency Portal will be accessed by State Agency workers to help the people to enroll in appropriate programs. The Client Portal is for the users who can directly submit the application through online application. The NoticesGate Module helps to generate the notice and the Document Upload module helps to update the user to upload the documents.  react  PROJECT #2 - Integrated Eligibility for State Services  • Designing and Developing the Agency and Client Portal States services application in AGILE.  • Designing and Developing the Financial Module for SNAP Restoration.  • Designing and Developing the Document Upload and Notice Generation functionality.  • Have created around 15 new end points using REST Webservices  • Have used Swagger UI, SOAP -UI and Postman to test the REST Webservices  • Have written JUnits using Mockito  • Have written Functional Testing using Serenity  • Have done the Fortify Configuration in JenkinsFile using Groovy to identify the security issues  • Have used Mockito spy to write JUnits  • Have written Unit Test cases for Positive and Negative Scenarios using Junits  • Have written Integration Tests  • Have written Performance Tests using JMeter  • Have developed Back end logic using JAVA 8  • Have used Lombok and annotation to reduce the getters and setters coding.  • Have written dynamic UI Framework using React.  • Have written JSON for Front End Service for developing UI Screens  • Have written Type Script to develop accordions and UI Tables to capture SNAP benefits  • Have used Rally for writing stories.  • Have created new Tables using Liquibase in MS SQL.  • Have written queries to extract specific data from MS SQL  • Have written Criteria and Predicate to query using Hibernate  • Have done Lazy Loading in Hibernate  • Have done One to One, One to Many Mapping, etc. using Hibernate.  • Have written entities to interact with the Tables in DB.  • Have used repositories to interact with DB from the back end.  • Have written Native Queries  • Have developed accordion and Tables using React  • Have fixed IE11 Browser issues in React  • Have used Type Script and Java Script to write UI Pages  • Have written UI Pages using React dynamic-ui-framework  • Have used Spring Data JPA to write Queries  • Have developed UI pages in Angular for Provider Portal web application  • Have experience working in AGILE and SCRUM.  • Have gathered the requirements and developed the application.  • Have worked in Production Release Cycles.  • Have used Jenkins for building the Java and UI code.  • Have used SQL to query the MS SQL DB.  Environment & Tools: JAVA, J2EE, SPRING, Spring Boot, Spring Data JPA, Lombok, JMeter, Hibernate , React, Angular, JEST, Enzyme, Jasmin, Karma, REST Webservice, Kibana, UNIX, SONAR, JUnit, RTC, Rally, DB Visualizer, MS SQL, Liquibase, SOAP-UI, Postman, Swagger UI, Red Hat JBOSS Developer Studio, Microsoft Visual Studio, Fortify, Serenity etc. Sr. Software Developer Bank of America - Newark, DE October 2017 to March 2018 The credit decision service is a SOAP Webservice that will provide information to the calling Interactive Voice Response Project whether the reissue request for the credit card that was either lost/stolen or damaged was approved or declined and fulfill the reissue request.    The credit access item eligibility service is a REST Webservice that will provide information to the calling Interactive Voice Response Project whether the account is eligible for expedited delivery and whether we need to charge the expedited delivery fee to the customer or not.    PROJECT #3 - Credit Decision Service for Expedited Delivery of Credit Card  • Designing and Developing the Credit decision service in AGILE.  • Designing and Developing the Credit access item eligibility service in AGILE. Have experience in creating Tivoli email alerts for logging the error message.  • Designed frame work for the Application and run through Bank of America Architecture team for Approval  • Have experience in Front Running the Features  • Have used Rally for writing stories.  • Have used queries to validate the data saved in Oracle DB Table after fulfilling the request.  • Have experience in leading the team in developing REST Webservice and SOAP Webservice  • Have experience in using POST and GET Methods in REST Webservice  • Have written JUnits using Mockito  • Have written Integration tests  • Implemented Junits for the JAVA code.  • Have experience working in AGILE and SCRUM.  • Have gathered the requirements and developed the application.  • Have worked in Production Release Cycles.  • Have used SOAP UI to test the GET and POST methods of Webservices.  • Have used Jenkins for building the UI code.  • Have used iBATIS to call Stored Procedures.  • Have used SQL to query the Oracle DB.  Environment & Tools: JAVA, J2EE, SPRING, REST Webservice, SOAP Webservice, SOAP UI, Splunk, UNIX, SONAR, Junit, RTC, Rally, Tivoli Alerts, TOAD, etc. Sr. Java Developer Vanguard - Malvern, PA November 2015 to September 2017 Advisor is a web application in which we provide advice to the clients on how much amount they need to save based on their income, expenditure, willingness to take risk, Target Retirement Age, expected Income after Retirement age.    PROJECT #4 - Advisor Questionnaire  • Designing and Developing an Advisor Questionnaire web application in AGILE.  • Designing and Developing an Expenditure Module which is a part of Advisor Questionnaire in AGILE.  • Have experience in creating Tivoli email alerts for logging the error message.  • Designed frame work for the Application and run through Vanguard Architecture team for Approval  • Have experience in Front Running the Features and writing Stories  • Have used Confluence to capture the Requirement  • Have used JIRA for writing stories.  • Have experience in leading the team in developing REST Webservice and developing the UI code for Expenditure page.  • Have experience in using POST and GET Methods in REST Webservice  • Have used AngularJS for developing UI Components  • Have written custom directives in angular JS  • Have used JavaScript for developing UI pages.  • Have implement hoisting in JavaScript  • Have written Unit Tests for UI code in Jasmine JS  • Have written End to End Tests in Protractor JS  • Have written Cucumber tests for webservice codes  • Have written JUnits using Mockito  • Have written Integration tests  • Have used Grunt to run the Jasmine and Protractor tests  • Implemented Error and Warning messages firing rules in DROOLS  • Implemented JUnits for DROOLS rules in Cucumber,  • Implemented Integration tests using JSON as input.  • Implemented Junits for the JAVA code.  • Have experience working in AGILE and SCRUM.  • Have gathered the requirements and developed the application.  • Have worked in Production Release Cycles.  • Have used Postman to test the GET and POST methods of Webservices.  • Have worked in DAO Api, DAO, Domain API, Domain, Webservice, Gemfire Library and Gemfire Server in webservice module.  • Have experience in doing Production Elevation certification using Postman  • Have used Bamboo to build the Branch  • Have used Bitbucket Repository  • Have used SVN Repository for UI code  • Have used Jenkins for building the UI code.  Environment & Tools: JAVA, J2EE, SPRING, REST Webservice, HTML5, AngularJS 1.3/2.0, JavaScript, Jasmine JS, Protractor JS , Web Services, Splunk, UI, GIT, SONAR, Junit, cucumber, Postman, Bamboo, Bitbucket, SVN Repository, JIRA, Tivoli Alerts, etc.    PROJECT #5 - BUY SELL FUNDS  Buy Sell Funds is a web application in which we can Buy or Sell or Exchange funds from one brokerage account to Mutual Fund Account and vice-versa. We can transfer the contribution between Retirement and Non-Retirement Accounts. Roth Conversion is a module of Buy Sell in which we can transfer the funds from Traditional IRA or Rollover IRA or SEP IRA to ROTH IRA.    • Designing and Developing an Buy Sell web application in AGILE.  • Designing and Developing a Roth Conversion Module in AGILE.  • Designed frame work for the Application and run through Vanguard Architecture team for Approval  • Have experience in leading the team  • Implemented Error and Warning messages firing rules in DROOLS  • Implemented Rules JUnits for DROOLS in Cucumber,  • Implemented Integration tests using XML as input.  • Implemented Junits for the JAVA code.  • Have experience working in AGILE and SCRUM.  • Have gathered the requirements and developed the application.  • Have worked in Production Release Cycles.  • Have worked in SOAP UI  • Have worked in webservices.  • Have used Jenkins for building the application.  • Have used JavaScript for developing UI pages  • Have created Stories and provided suggestion for designing the application.  • Integrated with Web Service to fetch the service from Order Manager.  • Used various design pattern like Singleton, Proxy, Builder , Delegate and Factory Pattern.  • Configured the application using application-configurable and web.xml.  • Environment Setup  Environment & Tools: JAVA, J2EE, SPRING, HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery, JSF, Servlets, WebServices, SOAP UI, RTC,SONAR, Junit, cucumber, DROOLS, etc. Sr. Java Developer TIAA-CREF - Charlotte, NC April 2012 to October 2015 The Online Pension Enrollment web application is for University Professors, Hospital Employees, School Teachers, etc. to contribute a certain percentage of the salary for Pension Plans and help them to do the monthly contribution and enrollment.  • Designing and Developing an Online Pension Enrollment web application in AGILE.  • Capture the Plan, Personal, Investment and Beneficiary details.  • Experience in creating Stories in RTC, updating tasks, etc.  • Experience in ALM for defect management.  • Have used JavaScript for developing UI pages  • Experience in SCMPro, CRAFT, SONAR, Junit, etc.  • Experience in SERENA for labelling the development build.  • Experience working in SCRUM.  • Experience in SONAR, Junit, etc.  • Used SauceLabs for different Browser Testing to ensure Compatibility.  • Gathered the requirements and developed the application.  • Worked in Production Release Cycles.  • Worked in SOAP UI  • Worked in webservices.  • Experience in labelling the application.  • Created Stories and provided suggestion for designing the application.  • Java Lead leading a 15+ member team.  • Requirement gathering and co-coordinating the Offshore development team  Environment & Tools: JAVA,J2EE, SPRING, HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery, PORTLETS, XSLT, JSP, Servlets, MDB, WebServices, SOAP UI, RTC, ALM, SERENA, SONAR, etc. Java Developer 1800flowers.com August 2011 to March 2012 The Order Management and Warehouse Management application is used to manage the order, tracking and transactions of the orders ordered through 1800baskets.  • A Developing an Arroweye greeting card application.  • Managing the Warehouse inventories and tracking the inventory items.  • Managing the Printers for Barcode Printing for tracking the containers and shipments.  • Managing the merchandise through tracking numbers with courier co-ordination.  Environment & Tools: J2EE, JAVA, Struts, Oracle, Servlet, JSP, XML Java Developer SEARS Holding Corporation July 2010 to July 2011 The Punch Tool application is used to capture the SEARS employee timings of Punch in, Punch out, Meal in, Meal out, Breaks, etc. The supervisor can check the online people at particular time duration.  • Developing a socket programming to send the employee information across web services application.  • Designing and developing the Punch Tool flow.  • Deploying the application using JBOSS.  • Developing the Punch Tool application with time calculation logic.  • Developing a Check-In and Check-Out Application  Environment & Tools: JBOSS 6.0, Java, J2EE, Servlet, JSPs, STRUTS 2.0, HTML5, MySQL 5.0,iPhone Platform, Android Platform and VSS Team Member - Java Developer Cassidian Communications October 2009 to June 2010 The Public Safety helpdesk application is to display the number of people working on the incoming call types such as SMS, Voice, EMS, etc. and their associated call types like Police, Fire, Storm, etc. The supervisor can check the number of unanswered call and the calls assigned to each agent.  • Developing a RabbitMQ messaging server to communicate information across applications.  • Created tables to store information in the CASSANDRA Database  • Deployed the application using TOMCAT.  • Developed UI screens using Flex in Action Script.  • Worked on XML, JAXB, JSON, and TLV formats to pass the information across applications.  Environment & Tools: Java, Servlet, JSPs, Cassandra, Ant and CVS Java Developer WIPRO August 2009 to September 2009 The Calculator application is developed based on COCOA Framework for iPhone mobiles in Objective C.  • Designing the architecture for the calculation Application.  • Developing the Calculator application  Environment & Tools: Xcode, Objective C and COCOA Framework Analyst WIPRO July 2009 to July 2009 The mStore is a mobile AppStore where we will be having a mStore Server which will hold all the applications and the applications will be delivered to the requested client.  • Designing the architecture for the mStore server.  • Designing various components in mStore and the interactions of these components with mStore.  Environment & Tools: Content Management System Java Developer EuroTaxGlass - UK January 2009 to June 2009 The Glassmatix is software which helps in estimating the damage of the vehicles in the accidents by the work stations and that can be sent to the insurance companies for claiming the repaired amount. Every month new vehicles will be released and the vehicle parts will be added to the data and the Glassmatix CD will be released every month. Rarely the old vehicles data will be removed and updated.  • Developing a feature for displaying the interior image of the vehicles.  • Developing a feature to organize the folders in the Overrider C application which is a currency converter  Environment & Tools: JAVA, C++, SQL Java Developer Motorola March 2008 to December 2008 The Phonebook application has various contacts and developed a feature for selecting and sending the contacts to the message field in the messaging application. The test command modules contains features of master clear and master reset to bring back the phone to the factory settings. The alarm and clock module is to develop the alarm and clock features in mobiles.  • Developed a feature to do the Master Clear and Master Reset.  • Developed a feature to test the audio of the mobile during industrial production by giving a specific code.  • Developed a feature to test the key press sound of the mobile during industrial production.  • Developed several features in Phonebook like increasing the contacts that can be sent through SMS from 10 to 50 in the phonebook module.  • This feature is made compatible that it can be turned ON or turned OFF.  • Developed a feature to make a key work as both Camera player key as well as Music Player key.  • Developed a feature where in which 10 peoples Vcard Details can be sent in a single SMS Message.  • Developed another feature where in which the carrier will be displayed as the first contact in the Phonebook which indeed contains information like emergency number, Call taxi number, cell phone accessories number, Pizza hut number, Customer care number , etc.  • Involved in the design phase of stop watch and alarm.  • Developed a feature to lap in stopwatch  Environment & Tools: JAVA, Android, C, C++, BREW, UNIX, BREW logger, Win Panic, RSDLite, Radiocomm, TAT, QXDM, EFS Explore and Clearcase. Java Developer Toshiba - JP February 2008 to February 2008 The Media player application is developed to play songs through android mobiles. The Device Management is a module to handle firmware update over the air to the mobile. Frequent updates will be sent to the mobile through the network. The user can install the updates whenever required.  • Understanding Product Requirements.  • Involved in the Android Mobile Development in which a Media Player Application was developed.  • Developed the application to play songs.  • Handled the navigation from one screen to another screen.  • Have drawn the screen using DroidDraw tool.  Environment & Tools: JAVA, C, Droidraw, Android Platform, CVS and Windows Additional Information ? 12 years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing on server side distributed applications with Insurance and supply chain domain experience.  ? Proficient in working with various sever side programming using JAVA, J2EE, SPRING, Hibernate, Spring Boot, Spring Data JPA, STRUTS, Python, Amazon Web Services, DynamoDB, Lambda Functions, DynamoDB Streams, HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, TypeScript, React, Jasmine JS, Micro Services, REST Webservice, SOAP Webservice, JSP, JSF, DROOLS, Cucumber, JSTL, JSF, Ajax, Spring MVC, Spring Web flow, Servlets, XML, iBATIS, SQL, MS SQL, Swagger API Spec Editor, SwaggerLint Oracle DB, Cassandra DB and JavaBean.  ? Expertise in Weblogic portal 10.0 and above, Apache tomcat servers, JBOSS servers, etc.  ? Expertise in IDE's like Spring Tool Suite, Eclipse, Red Hat JBoss Developer Studio, Microsoft Visual Studio and Webstorm  ? Experience in SDLC iterative, Water Fall model and AGILE methodologies such as SCRUM and using RTC for requirements tracking and task tracking.  ? Experience with Version Management systems like GIT, Bitbucket, StarTeam, RTC and SVN Repository.  ? Worked on HP Quality Center for the defects.  ? Experience in products like Fatwire, Coherence, Tealeaf, Gemfire, etc.  ? Excellent team player, leader and very dynamic in catering to emerging technologies and very adaptable.  ? Strong communication, interpersonal skills and coordinate well with Business and IT.  • J2EE/Web Technologies: JAVA, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JSON, XML, Java Beans, AJAX, HTML5, JavaScript, Web logic Portal, JQuery, JSF, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Spring Data JPA, Spring Boot, Lombok, Spring Webflow, Angular, React, TypeScript, DROOLS, Cucumber, JUnits, Mockito, Jest, Enzyme, MS-SQL, Liquibase, Fortify, Serenity  • Requirement Gathering and Design tool: Confluence, Rational Team Concert, Rally, MS Visio  • Web/Application Servers: Web logic, Websphere, RabbitMQ, Tomcat and JBOSS.  • Version control: StarTeam and RTC  • Build Tools and Utilities: Eclipse, ANT, SOAP UI, Splunk, Quality Center, Spring Tool Suite, Red Hat JBOSS Developer Studio,  Toad, SQL Developer, SVN Repositories, Savvion, SOAP UI, Postman, TOAD, DB Visualizer  • Frameworks: Spring MVC, Spring Web flow, STRUTS  • SDM: Agile, SCRUM, Waterfall, Kanban  • Tools: SONAR, JMeter, HP - ALM, JIRA, JUnit, SERENA, SWAGGER UI, SOAP UI, Postman, DB Visualizer, TOAD, Sauce Labs