Java Architect <span class="hl">Java</span> Architect Java Architect - Nutanix San Jose, CA • Experience in design and development of n-tier web applications using Java8 and its framework like, Spring, Spring Boot, Hibernate, Web Services and J2EE standards.  • Involved in prototyping, design, development (CRUD), testing, troubleshooting the custom ODATA services.  • Experience in ingestion, storage, querying, processing and analysis of Big Data with hands on experience in Big Data Ecosystem including Apache Spark, Spark SQL, SparkStreaming.  • Experienced in Integrating ServiceNow with External Web services and LDAP server.  • Extensive knowledge in MongoDB concepts and good knowledge in Administration - PII[GDPR].  • Good experience in developing web applications using HTML5, LESS, SCSS, JavaScript, React JS, Bootstrap, JQuery and JSON and Spring MVC.  • Strong experience in Spring Framework modules such as Spring Core (IOC, SpEL, Dependency Injection), Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring Cloud, Spring Data (JPA, JDBC, Hibernate), Spring Security, Spring REST and Spring Boot.  • Extensive knowledge in working with Java8, J2EE technologies such as JDBC, Hibernate, Ibatis, MyBatis, Servlets, JSP, JNDI, JSTL, Struts, JSF, Spring, XML, Web Services, SOAP, REST, JQuery, JSON, Oracle, SQL, JDBC, JNDI and Object-Oriented Programming techniques.  • Expertise in Scripting technologies like HTML 5, Vanila JavaScript, Node, CSS 3, XML and XSL/XSLT, AJAX, Angular JS / Angular 2 and JQuery.  • Have strong experience in RDBMS like Oracle, DB2, PL/SQL and SQL.  • Experience in Web Services Technologies like SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and Service Oriented Architecture (SOA). Work Experience Java Architect Nutanix - San Jose, CA December 2017 to Present Nutanix, Inc. is publicly traded global company that provides enterprise virtualization and storage solutions. It specializes in cloud operating system that converges traditional silos of server, virtualization, storage and networking into one integrated solution and unifies private and public cloud into single software fabric. I am working and coordinating on deployment, testing, and implementation of the release process and on defining the various procedures to guarantee smooth and timely delivery of software products or updates into the non-production environments and their promotion and deployment to the production environment.    Responsibilities:  • Design, development and testing of web application and integration projects using technologies such as Core Java8, J2EE, Struts, JSP, JDBC, Spring Framework, Hibernate, Java Beans, Web Services (REST/SOAP).  • Designed and worked on SAP Duet environment to expose Invoice, Purchase order CRUD operations using ODATA services.  • Worked extensively with big data tools, integrating Apache Solr search for multi-faced search, provided input on database design, and building stored procedures for smooth data.  • Managed MS Azure accounts utilized for disaster recovery/storage/Big Data Platform  • Worked extensively on LDAP integrations. Very good understanding of Integration with these varieties of protocols: SOAP, JDBC, and ODBC.  • Set up LDAP Server and integrate with Service Now Co-ordinate in integration of ServiceNow with Remedy.  • Worked on creating users, roles, groups and configured LDAP Server and LDAP Listener for updating the user and group table record.  • Strong knowledge on securing the web APIs data-integrity/confidentiality, basic auth and OAuth 2.0.  • Enforced OAuth 2.0 standard authentication level to the Rest APIS for required grant types such as Authorization code, Implicit, Client credentials  • Implemented MMS monitoring and backup (MongoDB Management Services) on cloud and on local servers (on-premise and OPS Manager).  • Build the Web API on the top of Flask/ Bottle framework to perform REST methods. Used MongoDB and MySQL databases in Web API development. Developed database migrations using SQLAlchemy Migration.  • Analyzed and worked on PII data [GDPR]and Salesforce Shield to help Audit team  • Implemented Personally identifiable information (PII)[GDPR] such as restrict column data to certain users/user groups using object level ACL.  • Developed Enterprise level applications using Java, J2EE Standards, Java 8 Server Faces, EJB, JSP, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Oracle, MVC Architecture, Web Services, AJAX and Javascript.  • Designed and developed the UI with Thymeleaf, JSP, HTML5, CSS3, AngularJs, and JavaScript.  • Migrated backend applications from Wildfly 9.2 to Wildfly 10 on multiple Windows 2016 nodes in preparation for data center move. This resulted in Security improvements and going from Java 8 to 9 in the application environment.  • Developed the web-based Dashboards for different users using the latest web technologies like Angular 4/5, Typescript, JavaScript and CSS preprocessor SASS and bootstrap 4 and Node JS and ES6 features.  • Did UI development with technologies like HTML5, BootStrap, Reactjs, Angular2, TypeScript, JQuery, Redux and ES6.  • Deployed Spring Boot based micro services Docker container using AWS EC2container services and AWS admin console, and Worked on Spring cloud for Routing, Service-to- service calls, Load balancing.  • Designed and created Microservices business segments and RESTful administration endpoints utilizing Spring Boot.  • Developed microservices with Spring Eureka to retrieve API routes for the entire cluster.  • Developed architecture of the application using Spring MVC and RESTful web services.  • Worked on middle tier framework with Spring Hibernate and spring connectors to tie back-end business logic/systems with web properties via a corresponding RESTful API.  • Used Java 8 Streams, Lamba expressions and Functional Interfaces.  • Worked on creating and producing REST web services.  • Implemented validations using the Spring Validation framework.  • Have done POC on Spring Boot and Angular 2  • Implemented Presentation layer using Wire-framing, HTML5, CSS Framework, Node.JS, ExtJS, ReactJS, AngularJS, knockout JS.  • Providing a responsive, AJAX-driven design using JavaScript libraries such as Angular.Js, Node.js, D3.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap.js and Bootstrap.js.  • Experience in AngularJS, Web sockets, JQuery, JSON, JSONP, Bootstrap, HTML, Ajax, CSS3, SASS, Jasmine Unit Test Framework.  • Used Thymeleaf template engine that work both in web based and non-web based environments.  • Wrote RESTFUL Microservices with Spring Boot framework.  • Used Advanced Rest Client for testing the REST APIs developed.    Environment: Java 8/9/10, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, CRUD, big data, LDAP, oauth, mongodb, PII, GDPR, Spring Boot, ThymeLeaf, Jboss, Wildfly, JSP, Angular, React.JS, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js, HTML, Javascript, CSS, REST, Maven, JIRA, Git, Github. Lead Java Developer Jobnimbus - American Fork, UT January 2016 to November 2017 JobNimbus, the project was to work on Job Nimbus CRM (Customer Relationship Management) and Project Management software all wrapped into one. Job Nimbus goal was to offer clients the easiest way to manage projects, contacts, and tasks. With detailed reporting and employee management tools. I have worked on customizing workflow and define the sequence of work. With pre-built custom forms, users can create and share invoices. Managed all their contacts at one central place. Contacts can be imported from multiple sales channels including emails and phone calls, that allows project managers to assign tasks to their teams, monitor progress and send notifications to clients and stakeholders.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for analysis, document functional requirements in business concepts, use cases, and user interface, development and integration of backend components using J2EE technologies such as Spring and Spring JDBC.  • Managed Rackspace and MS Azure accounts utilized for Big Data Platform  • Envolved in LDAP integration with ServiceNow for obtaining users and groups and played a significant role in Persona Management Project.  • Developed System Properties - My Company, UI, CSS, System, Email, Approval, LDAP, Application, Localization, Security, Users, and Groups.  • Worked on creation of MongoDB databases, collections and deploying JavaScript's using mongo shell.  • Wrote services to store and retrieve user data from the MongoDB for the application on devices.  • Developed Project Specific Java API's for the new requirements with Effective usage of Data Structures, Algorithms and Core Java, OOPS concepts.  • Developed and implemented of front-end views and pages utilizing HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Flexbox, JavaScript, Node and JQuery.  • Developed and tested many features in an AGILE environment-using Ruby on Rails, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Node, and Bootstrap.  • Used J2EE based App Servers like Jboss WebSphere Weblogic and Web servers like Apache Tomcat.  • Performed J2EE application deployment using JBoss application server on Windows and Linux.  • Developed Micro services and worked on Spring Boot, deployed applications on Pivotal Cloud Foundry.  • Designed and created Microservices business segments and RESTful administration endpoints utilizing Spring Boot.  • Create new interfaces using java, maven/ant, spring mvc / struts, or hibernate based on provided requirements XSD/DDF's  • Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing Spring Inversion of Control (IOC) architecture and Hibernate.  • Used Jenkins and pipelines to drive all microservices builds out to the Docker registry and then deployed to Kubernetes, Create Pods and managed using Kubernetes  • Designed and developed the REST based Microservices using the Spring Boot.  • Designed and developed Restful API and services using best practices to interact within the microservices and with the front end. Using spring MVC and spring rest.  • Developed hibernate DAO Accessor Classes using Spring JDBC Template, Worked with Hibernate for object relational mapping and connection management.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries and Java Script to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Developed web service for web store components using Restful API.  • Designed Frontend with object-oriented JavaScript Framework like angular.js, Node.JS, JavaScript, Backbone.js, Knockout.js, React.js/Redux, Spine.js, Ember.js, Require.js, Express.js and Experience with client-side templating like Handlebars.js.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Designed User Interface using HTML, CSS, Boot Strap, JavaScript, React, Angular JS, XML, VXML, and Java Server Faces (JSF).  • Involved in creating and Deployment of REST API and in Java J2EE using Spring Boot.  • Performed CRUD operations on JSON and XML formatted RESTful web services with oAuth and oAuth2 authentication protocols.  • Experienced in Application Test case development and creation execution using Selenium, Cucumber,  • Used spring's test framework to create integration tests for various spring batch applications. Designed and modified User Interfaces using JSP, JavaScript, CSS and jQuery.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Hibernate, Spring, Struts, CRUD, big data, LDAP, Mongodb, JDBC, Angular.js, ReactJS, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js, JSP, HTML, CSS, JQuery, Javascript, XML, SOAP, PL/SQL, JSF, JMS, Junit, DB2, MongoDB, MySQL MS SQL, Oracle, REST, Linux, Eclipse, Scrum. Sr. Java Developer Home Depot - Atlanta, GA March 2013 to December 2015 The Homedepot.com, Re-platform project is a complete rewrite of the existing site that runs in a Broadvision environment. This site allows customers to browse online and in-store products, add products to a shopping cart, wish list, or gift registry, create a user account, opt for email subscriptions, place orders, compare, and search for products. I have also worked on Tax Exempt application that consists of two main parts; Registration and Maintenance. Tax Exempt Registration is a customer facing application where customers can register for tax-exempt status for their eligible tax-exempt purchases. Maintenance is being used by the Tax Department at the Home Depot to review, search, and maintain tax exemption reasons and other activities.    Responsibilities:  • Deployed this application which uses J2EE architecture model and Struts Framework first on Weblogic and helped in migrating to JBoss Application server.  • Worked in Java, J2EE, XML, Oracle, DB2, Struts, spring, Hibernate, REST Web services, Model driven architecture and software configuration management tools.  • Developed Application based on J2EE using Hibernate, Spring, JSF frameworks and SOAP/REST web services.  • Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection and integrated with the EJB using annotations.  • Responsible for analysis, design, development and integration of UI components with backend using J2EE technologies such as Servlets, Java Beans and JSP.  • Used iBATIS framework with Spring framework for data persistence and transaction management.  • Used Spring for cross cutting concerns.  • Developed the application using Struts Framework that leverages classical Model View Controller (MVC) architecture  • Used EJB, JMS, Java Script in enhancement of the product.  • Designed and implemented database structure in MySQL Server  • Designed the database and coding of SQL, PL/SQL, Triggers and Views using IBM DB2.  • Developed web services using Apache Axis2 in Java and SOAP/WSDL on SOA architecture.  • Worked Extensively on Spring IOC, Spring DAO framework, Spring Web services and integrated spring with Struts framework  • Used Netbeans for development and WebLogic Application Server for deploying the web application.  • Used JBoss application server to deploy application into Production environment.  • Created and Implemented Keyword Driven Framework using Selenium.  • Designed Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams and Object Diagrams to model the detail design of the application using UML.  • Developed Servlets, JSP, and Java classes for implementing business logic  • Used Maven to build and generate code analysis reports.  • Used XML parser APIs such as JAXP and JAXB in the web service's request response data marshalling as well as unmarshalling process.  • Developed Swing for user interaction and data presentation.  • Designed and developed pricing region services using Oracle ADF, JSF and Oracle Spatial.  • Design and development of the exception management workflow using Oracle BPM.  • Built code using IDE IntelliJ and deploy it using Apache Tomcat.  • Deployed the applications in Linux servers using deployment scripts.  • Designed and developed programs in C++ to integrate as per the user's requirements.  • Created/translated PL/I programming into SAS, which were used as part of the process used to standardize military personnel records  • Created PL/SQL stored procedures for new Oracle Forms and Reports development    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Struts, JSF, JSP, EJB, DOJO, JQuery, Sencha ExtJS, JavaScript, GWT, MySQL, SQL, DB2, Tomcat, WSDL, JBoss, Unix, Mercurial, Selenium, Jira, Swing, Cognos, iLog, JRules, Oracle ADF, Oracle BPM, Web 2.0, Linux, C, C++, Mainframe, COBOL, PL/I, JCL, SQL, SAS VB. Java Developer Wells Fargo - San Francisco, CA July 2011 to February 2013 Wells Fargo & Company, Card Online Servicing: The aim of this project is to re-platform the Wells Fargo card servicing pages using fullstack technologies. This project allows the Wells card customers to access various services of card, such as viewing account summary, statements & documents, transactions, payments and manage auto pay etc.    Responsibilities:  • Integrated Hibernate ORM with Spring-Hibernate framework to facilitate DML and DQL queries and represent object-database mapping.  • Involved in transforming the Use Cases into Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and State diagrams.  • Involved in development of Web Services, creation of WSDL and schemas.  • Extensively participated on working with Spring framework. Involved in writing JSP and Servlets.  • Involved in development of Web Services, were developed to receive client requests.  • Implemented Spring JDBC template, Spring Exception Strategy and AOP.  • Involved in setting up WebSphere Application server and using Ant tool to build the application and deploy the application in WebSphere Application server.  • Worked with the creation of Store Procedures. Involved in writing SQL queries, Stored Procedures to accomplish complex functionalities.  • Part of team creating quality working J2EE code to design, schedule, and cost to implement use cases.  • Developed Reusable classes in the middleware using Hibernate.  • Involved in writing lots of JSP for maintains and enhancements of the application. Worked on Front End using Servlets and also backend using EJB and Hibernate.  • Worked on Presentation Layer using Struts Tiles, JSPs and Servlets.  • Created quality working J2EE code to design, schedule, and cost to implement use cases.  • Setting of DB2 build settings in RAD application development server.  • Involved in writing the database integration code using Hibernate.  • Creation of managed server and JDBC connections.  • Worked on the application using Rational Application Developer. Designed & Developed Application flow UML diagrams of the application using Rational Rose    Environment: J2ee, Java, Jsp, Servlet, Jdbc, Struts, Junit, Log4j, Javascript, Websphere Application Server, Axis, Wsad, Xml, Xslt, Ant, Sql, Sql Query Analyzer, Jprobe, Cvs, Opprox Reports, Windows'xp, Unix-Ibm Aix. Java Developer Oxford HealthCare - Broken Arrow, OK February 2008 to June 2011 Oxford Healthcare, The Project was to enhance and integrate Commercial off the shelf (COTS) web based Electronic Health Record (EHR) NextGen Software system and provide a better approach to documentation than conventional, paper-based system. I have worked on building a web-based application, and was created to provide online access to the components of disease management programs and staging process. Provides direction necessary to clinical and support staff to improve financial, revenue performance, and the overall patient experience.    Responsibilities:  • Worked with Spring Batch Used Spring ORM module to integrate with Hibernate.  • Developed the web pages using JSP, CSS and HTML  • Developed the RTM interface module to map the requirements to the test-case and Test design modules  • Used several J2EE Design Patterns (Session Façade, Aggregate Entity) for the Middle Tier development.  • Developed EJBS (Session and Message-Driven Beans) in (RAD) for handling business processing, database access and asynchronous messaging.  • Made extensive use of Java Naming and Directory Interface (JNDI) for looking up enterprise beans.  • Developed Message-Driven beans in collaboration with Java Messaging Service (JMS).  • Involved in writing JSP/HTML/JavaScript and Servlets to generate dynamic web pages and web content.  • Wrote various stored procedures in PL/SQL and JDBC routines to update tables.  • Wrote various SQL queries for data retrieval using JDBC.  • Involved in building and parsing XML documents using SAX parser.  • Exposed business logic as a web service and developed WSDL files for describing these web services.  • Extensively used SOAP formatted messages for communication between web services.  • Developed the application on IBM WebSphere Application Server.  • Developed the plug-in interfaces for the TMS features (TEE, Requirements, Version Control)  • Developed Form Beans, which are used to store data when the user submits the HTML form  • Coded various Java beans to implement the business logic  • Development of GUI using AWT  • Involved in creating the tables using SQL and connectivity is done by JDBC  • Involved in generating the reports regarding the marks they secured in the online test once they press the submit button in the test using HTML and JSP.  • Apache Tomcat is used as an Application Server.    Environment: J2ee, Java, Jsp, Servlet, Jdbc, Struts, Junit, Log4j, Javascript, Dhtml, Websphere Application Server, Axis, Xml, Xslt, Ant, Sql, Opprox Reports, Windows'xp. Education Bachelor's