Android Developer Android <span class="hl">Developer</span> Android Developer - American Airlines, TX TX Around 8 years Professional Experience with 4 years of IT experience in design and development in Java based applications and 4+ years of Smartphone and tablet (Android) development experience. Developed multiple Android applications across versions.    * Extensively worked with Android SDK and Eclipse IDE along with Android ADT plug in.  * Expertise in developing apps using SQLite, java, xml and HTML5  * Extensively worked on memory leaks, data offline usage, push notifications, content providers, multiple screen support, accounts and sync on Android  * Good exposure in developing GUI using Interface design principles for Android mobile and tablet devices.  * Strong expertise in creating responsive UI for various screen resolutions.  * Proficient with common Android framework APIs  * Good Knowledge of ecommerce domain, health care and banking domain.  * Expertise in Object Oriented Architecture, Design and Programming from design to implementation.  * Expert level skills in SQL and database query optimization techniques.  * Experience in architecture design, development and implementation of software applications and testing.  * Have hands-on experience in complete project life cycle, with domain knowledge in Mobile Application Development, e-learning Domain and Web application development.  * Have extensively worked on C#, HTML5, CSS3, Backbone, ASP, ASP.NET, WCF (Soap and REST), Entity Framework, LINQ to SQL, RIA Services, WPF, JQuery, Json, Silver light, XML, JavaScript, Team Foundation Server, SQL Server, Analysis Services.  * Experience in web service protocols such as JSON, HTTP, Phone gap and XML.  * Good exposure in developing Graphical User interfaces on set top box devices.  * Working knowledge of graphic design and handling various kinds of media using Photoshop, Illustrator, Premiere and flash.  * Ability to grasp and master new technologies, excellent analytical and problem solving skills.  * Able to take initiative; work independently and also as a team player. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Android Developer American Airlines, TX August 2016 to Present Google Play Store:  URL: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.aa.android&hl=en    Responsibilities:  • Understanding the client requirements  • Designed and developed Mobile Media application for Android mobile devices with extensive user interface development.  • Responsible for design of user interface using various custom layouts, buttons, dialog boxes, alert boxes and different form of widgets.  • Worked on understanding the application architecture  • Inserted suitable code to capture the various button and text field events and implemented the desired action for each of the widgets.  • Used Android content providers for implementing features like sending E-mails, sharing using Facebook, Email, Twitter, SMS, etc., from the app and designed suitable GUI for these applications.  • Used services, Async tasks and Alert Notification API to implement event reminder feature into the mobile app.  • Developed the presentation layer of the application using the struts framework &JSP.  • Developed the Server side utilities using the Servlets & XML.  • Developed the Java classes following the OOP's concepts.  • Developed interfaces and used JDBC for database connections.  • Unit testing the implementation.  • Followed Agile methodology for implementing the Application.  • Bug fixing during the QA Cycle.  • Involved in developer testing by porting the app on multiple devices with various screen sizes. Android Application Developer United Services Automobile Association - San Antonio, TX June 2013 to July 2016 Google Play Store:  https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.usaa.mobile.android.usaa&hl=en    Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirement gathering and designing of the application.  • Responsible for developing the Android UI layouts.  • Responsible for implementing Google Analytics  • Created custom Views, such as List Items, Date/Time Pickers, Complex Radio and Image Buttons, as well as custom List View Adapters.  • Implemented intents for navigating to Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter  • Designed the User interface by following different design patterns like Action Bar with overflow menu.  • Responsible for flow control between different activities using explicit and implicit intents.  • Added styles/themes to make UI look better.  • Responsible for the Android business logic that uses Json queries for getting data from the backend systems.  • Involved in integrating the service to the UI.  • Involved in performance testing along with Functional and regression tests.  • Used Quality center and followed the defect workflow during the defect resolutions.  • Coordinated with Configuration Manager for continuous integration.  • Followed agile methodology to implement the project.  • Responsible for Peer Code Review, Defect Resolutions.  • Performed on device debugging using ADB and tested application in both emulator and device.  Environment: Windows 7, Android 5.x, Java, Eclipse 3.5, SQLite, JSON, REST APIs, Google Analytics. Java Developer,Android Developer PNC Bank, Pittsburg, PA January 2012 to May 2013 Role: Java Developer, Android Developer    Google Play Store:  Link: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.pnc.ecommerce.mobile    Responsibilities:  • Analyzed the requirements, and understanding the functional specifications.  • Involved in design of the system using UML.  • Worked on designing and developing scalable and extensive frameworks.  • Worked on Agile, RAD and Test Driven Development (TDD) environment.  • Implemented front end (GUI) using HTML, JSP, AJAX, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Design and development of modules using MVC.  • Development using Struts, Spring, Hibernate frameworks.  • Performed data validation in Form beans and Action Classes.  • Worked on XML, XSLT, XPATH, DOM, and SAX.  • Used RAD for developing the application.  • Prepared Unit Test Plan & performed Unit Testing using JUnit.  • Used Log4j for logging debug, info & error data  • Development of various modules in accordance with Agile Methodology framework. Collaborating along with the Business Analysis, Design, QA and Development team in shaping the product.  • Worked on core framework of the Android and Web Application Design and its communication (Web Services, Database, Connectivity's, UI).  • Extensively utilized AsyncTask, Thread, handler, Services to provide smooth UI experience.  • Development of key functionalities like on middleware side, Database design, Android framework for multiple device support.  • Used multi-threading to implement parallel processing using AsyncTask, Services, Job-Scheduler, ThreadPoolExecutor.  • Involved in Application testing, Memory Analysis, Screen fragmentation support and working with the QA team on test plan and test cases.  • Involved in designing the Web Services and Database design to suite the Android Application support.  • Involved in designing the interface along with the Design and UX team for better usability and handling across Android and maintain their relative nativity (phones and tablets).  Environment: Android SDK, Eclipse, Java, SQLite, XML, HTML, XML, Windows and MS SQL server. Java/J2EE Developer Lotex Technologies - Bengaluru, Karnataka August 2010 to November 2011 Responsibilities:  • Worked on coding in java, jsp, JavaScript for coding in Leave Management System, Productivity Tracking System, Employee Information System and Resource Allocation System  • Worked on database design, handling queries and stored procedures.  • Worked on system design and analysis, made use cases for design and class diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Involved in screen designs, SRS (Software Requirement Specification) and documentation of screens. Handled the testing of our parts through SQA tool for bug rectifications.  • Analysis & design of GUI framework classes using Java, Swing, XML, XSL.  • Designed and Implemented the J2EE Based Struts Framework.  • Designed and developed prototypes for multiple modules using Struts framework.  • Designed the web application using Struts, EJB and JSP.  • Designed and implemented a generic parser framework using SAX/DOM parser to parse XML messages of vendor account from Legacy system.  • Worked with JSP, JavaScript, XML  • Developed style sheet to map data from XML to HTML output.  • Used JDBC for Oracle Database connectivity.  • Extensively used UML to model the business rules from the legacy system  Environment: Java, JSP, Servest, Rational Rose, XML, HTML, Oracle 8i, Apache. Java Developer CMC - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2009 to August 2010 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modeling, analysis, design and development.  • Used Rational Rose for Use case diagrams, Activity flow diagrams, Class diagrams and Object diagrams in the design phase.  • Developed Custom Tags to simplify the JSP code. Designed UI screens using JSF, JSP, Struts tags and HTML. Used JavaScript and JQuery for client side validation.  • Used Struts with Spring Framework in the application, which is based on MVC, design pattern.  • Used Hibernate Persistence Strategy to interact with database.  • Actively involved in designing and implementing Business Delegate, Data Access Object, Session Façade, Service Locator and Data Transfer Object design patterns.  • Used Java Message Service (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information, such as trading status report, between the Brokers.  • Designed and developed Message driven beans that consumed the messages from the Java message queue.  • Used DAO pattern to retrieve the data from database.  • Used Web services for sending and getting data from different applications using REST.  • Used Maven to build the application and deployed on WebSphere Application Server.  • Used JUnit framework for Unit testing of application.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4J and fixed the problems.  • Developed the different components of application such as JSPs, Servlets, EJB's using WebSphere Studio Application Developer and used CVS for version control.  Environment: Struts 1.1, Hibernate 2.0, Spring 1.0, JSP1.2, Servlets 2.3, JMS, XML, REST, WSDL, JDBC, JavaScript, JQuery, UML, HTML, JNDI, CVS, Log4J, JUnit, WebSphere Application Server 5.1, WSAD 5.1.2, Rational Rose, IBM DB2 UDB. Education Bachelors of Technology in Technology 1. Bachelors of Technology in Information Technology. Skills JAVA (8 years), ANDROID (5 years), XML (5 years), ECLIPSE (4 years), HTML (3 years), Windows 7, Android 5.x, Java, Eclipse 3.5, SQLite, JSON, REST APIs, Google Analytics, Google, Embedded, Framework, GIT, Android Sdk Links https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.aa.android&hl=en Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Technologies  Android 2.3-5.0, Android NDK, Java, JNI, C, J2EE (JSP 1.2/2.0,Servelets 2.2/2.3/2.4/2.5, EJB 2.0/2.1, ANT), Struts1.3, JavaBeans, JSF 1.2, Web Services, Spring2.0.x/2.5.x, Hibernate 3.0/3.1.1, JMS 1.1, JDBC 3.0, JavaScript 1.8.x, SOAP 1.2, J Unit 4.0.    Markup Languages HTML 5, XML, CSS 3, XHTML.  Servers Web Logic 8.1/9.2, Apache Tomcat 6.0/7.0, JBoss 5.0.  Debugging Tools Log cat, DDMS, J Unit.  RDBMS SQLite, db4o, Oracle 10g/11g, MySQL 5.1.69, MS-SQL Server.  IDE's Android Studio, Eclipse, NetBeans, IntelliJ IDEA.  Operating Systems Windows (2000/XP Professional, Windows 7/8), Unix, Linux, Macintosh.