Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> JAVA DEVELOPER, GFT Arcadia, CA Decisive, result-focused IT professional having experience of 9 years in the IT sector. Excellent  programming skills summed up with proficiency in data structures and algorithms along with the  experience in technologies such as Java/J2EE, Spring, Hibernate and WCS. Well versed with all the  phases of SDLC. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer GFT June 2016 to October 2018 Worked as a Java consultant in GFT group Costa Rica for US Clients like ICE Data Services, NEPC, Cambridge associates.    • Closely worked with BA for analyzing the requirements.  • Created APIs to fetch data from Denodo and return JSON response to UI to display assets and implement other operations on tree for Asset Manager.  • Created Services to connect to M Files to display Relevant Information to specified users.  • Implemented Redis Cache to increase performance while displaying large amount of data  fetched from M Files.  • Implemented Okta Registration and Validation for user login and new user registration.  • Create Email Services and Redis Queue for email functionality using Hub Spot.  • Actively involved in regression testing and after production support. Major Tasks involved  Providing solutions, Fixing the bugs, perform regression testing.  • Created testing scripts for many services using postman to ease QA tasks. SENIOR ASSOCIATE L1 Sapient Publicis June 2010 to November 2015 Projects and Roles:  Marks and Spencer  • Part of a team of 150 members playing the role of a developer and designer; Responsible for developing many major functionalities.  • As a Team Member I am responsible for Understanding Client Requirements, Analyzing  Requirements, Create Low level plan, Develop various functionalities like Shopping Cart page for existing User and Guest, Mini Basket display, Address capturing, Single Page Checkout etc.  Email: meenujuneja1982@gmail.com  1161 W Duarte Rd, Arcadia 91007  Phone: +1(626)620-4914    • Creating Jobs Framework to perform various jobs like email notifications, send order data to shipping management team, Creating a new Locale, Generic Error Handling etc.  • Provide backend support while weekly releases and UAT and Final Production. Major Tasks involved  Providing solutions, Fixing the bugs, perform regression testing.    ADT  • Part of a team of 40 members playing the role of a developer and designer; Responsible for developing many major functionalities.  • As a Team Member I am responsible for Understanding Client Requirements, Analyzing  Requirements, Create Low level plan, develop various functionalities like Publish and setup B2B, B2C  stores, Customize SAR files as per Client requirement, Implement Billing/Subscriber Address  Functionality, Implement Shipping/User Address Functionality, Implement Emergency Contact  Details Functionality, Address Validation Using Melissa, Tealium Implementation    Sapient WCS Reusable Assets  Objective of this project is to deliver some of the common customized modules of WCS, so that these  can be used at plug and play modules in all WCS projects.  - Platform & Skills: Core Java, WCS, WAS and cloudscape  - Responsibilities and contributions: As a Team Member I am responsible for -  • Publish and setup B2B, B2C stores  • WXS setup and implementation of Utility  • Order history for guest Checkout    O2 (Portal/Avatar)  ? BE Portal Component: O2 is a telecommunications, internet and financial services provider in the United Kingdom owned by Telefonica. BE can place orders by using an application that consists of  various portlets. This is a very beautiful and user-friendly interface. Home page consists of portlets that  displays services available along with their specification and charges. Any special tariff plans if available  are also shown here. Either a new user or an existing BE customer can start order placement journey from there.    ? Avatar Component: This is the major functional component in project. Orders can be placed  either by BE customers or directly by agents using Avatar interface. Main Processing unit of orders is  anyways avatar only. Details captured by BE regarding order placement are also sent to Avatar using  web services.    Worked on BE Portal components, created new portlets, developed services to capture order and send  data to Avatar for further processing.    Developed additional functionalities at Avatar side for placing order by Agents.  Email: meenujuneja1982@gmail.com  1161 W Duarte Rd, Arcadia 91007  Phone: +1(626)620-4914 JAVA DEVELOPER GSPL & Co - Delhi, Delhi February 2008 to March 2010 Projects and Roles:  Casio SMS (Service Management System)  Casio Service Management System is a very huge project that has been successfully  implemented in INDIA, CHINA, TAIWAN, SINGAPORE.  Development of product Service Management System, allows communications, interaction and transactions between many departments of organization. SMS is an Intranet based application  that offers an open architecture for fast integration and a highly scalable carrier-class solution with guaranteed two-way delivery of data. The project aims to analyze various models and parts  purchased, consumed, products received for repair, sent to Service Centers, Received from  technicians etc. Consumption may be either thru normal sales, Quick sale, or it may be  technician order.  This project also keeps track of the parts received for repair. Repair may be either onsite or it  may be Normal repair.  For Invoice generation different countries have their own different rules that are being followed, e.g. in Taiwan Fapio is generated instead of invoice. In US taxation procedure is totally different.  It depends on Delivery Modes Used to dispatch parts and on countries in which product is being  sold.  Concept of Warranty, Stores etc. is also implemented in information flow.  Various countries have their own report generation plans based upon different type of users  (Service Centers, Technicians, Super Admin and others).    Responsibilities included:  1 Participated in the development of a web site application using J2EE, XML, Servlets, and JSP under the Apache Struts Framework. This system provides business side sales  representatives report and access to crucial information to perform their jobs in managing  services in Complete Organization. The Administrator has control to manage member  accounts and report sales, purchase status.  2 Created complex SQL and used JDBC connectivity to access the database.  3 Technologies used: J2EE, J2SE, Servlets, JSP, Apache Tomcat, XML, Ajax, PostgreSQL, JDBC, Apache Struts Framework.  4 Analyzed the performance of system software code and wrote code to tune it.    Nokia ASCMS (Nokia Authorized Service Management System)  ASCMS is a web-based application available for internal use of Nokia at http://namscareonline:  8080/ascms. It is used by Nokia to manage its ASC across India. The application helps Nokia to plan the number of ASC's required in an area according to certain parameters like Average Fault Rate, Warranty  Population, Sales Forecast etc. Once the planning is done the appointment of ASC is proposed in the system. The appointment is Approved/Rejected or Referred Back by Regional Head, National Head, to  various departments. Once the ASC is made 'Alive' in the system, Audits are planned and then  performed. Based on Audits and performance of ASC the termination process is initiated in the system.  The termination is approved/ rejected by various departments as per process defined by Nokia. On  completion of every step emails are sent to all the concerned people. The various reports like Appointment TAT at every step-in appointment process, Audit and Capacity Planning, Detailed Audits etc  can be generated and imported in 'CSV' formats from the system.  Email: meenujuneja1982@gmail.com  1161 W Duarte Rd, Arcadia 91007  Phone: +1(626)620-4914    Responsibilities:  1 Responsible for developing training module of ASC.  2 Requirement analysis from client and existing application developed in another environment.  3 Database and Flow design of the project.  4 Data migrations from old application to the current application.  5 Coding of training modules.  6 Analysis of change requirement after UAT Education Master's in Computer Applications IGNOU - Delhi, Delhi January 2003 to December 2005 Bachelor's in Computer Applications Kurukshetra University June 1999 to April 2002 Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jsp, Servlets, Jdbc, Sql server, Oracle, Postgresql, Sql, Websphere, Commerce server, Frameworks, Unix, Soap, Rdbms, Rest, Java J2Ee, MVC, Core Java Additional Information SKILLS  Java Core Java, J2EE, Java 8, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, Spring, Hibernate  IDE Eclipse, IntelliJ  Web Technologies REST, SOAP  RDBMS SQL Server, Oracle, PostgreSQL  Frameworks WebSphere Commerce Server  Operating System Windows, UNIX.