Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Sr.<span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java/J2EE Developer - Autonation New York, NY ? 8+ Years of IT professional experience with full project development, implementation and deployment on Windows/Unix using JAVA/J2EE technology stack.  ? Good knowledge of designing, deploying and operating highly available, scalable and fault tolerant systems using Amazon Web Services (AWS)  ? Experience in implementing JAVA/JEE design patterns such as MVC, Singleton, Factory, Session Façade and Business Delegate.  ? Experience in Object oriented analysis, design/development methodologies, UML Use Cases, Sequence, Page Flow and Class Diagrams.  ? Extensive experience with both core and advanced Java technologies which includes Core Java, XML, JavaScript, JEE, JSP, EJB 2.0/3.0, JDBC, Struts, Servlets, JMS, JSF My Faces, Rich Faces, Prime Faces and Ice Faces, JPA, JAX-WS, JAX_RS, Spring and Hibernate.  ? Extensive knowledge and implementation skills in Spring MVC and JSF MVC frameworks.  ? Experience in implementing Spring Core, AOP, JDBC, MVC and ORM modules.  ? Strong programming skills using Java1.7/1.6, Spring, Hibernate, JPA 2, JTA, JNDI, JSP, Servlets, Java Beans, JSTL, JDBC.  ? Participated in Architect and design of the components using a distributed architecture on AWS cloud platform.  ? Extensive knowledge in using JavaScript frameworks such as JQuery, AngularJS, ember JS and DOJO.  ? Very good working knowledge in spring, Hibernate and Struts frameworks.  ? Implemented Microservices using Pivotal Cloud Foundry platform build upon Spring Boot Services  ? Implemented SOA architecture with web services using SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and XML.  ? Extensive experience in working on projects with Waterfall and agile methodologies such as Test Driven Development (TDD) and SCRUM.  ? Created User services in Cloud Foundry for connecting database with different life cycles using spring profile.  ? Expertise in client-side design and validations using HTML, DHTML, CSS, Java Script, JSP.  ? Provided Trouble shooting and Integration Maintenance Support on 24x7 basis for MQ and Websphere Message Broker Systems.  ? Proven knowledge in one or more NoSQL Document Store databases such as MongoDB.  ? Implemented JMS and JTAPI for all Mobile Platforms.  ? Experience in working on projects with Multi-Threading, Collections Framework and Generic Data.  ? Implemented Angular 2 services to connect the web application to back-end APIs to POST/GET the data used in the application  ? Expertise in using Behaviour Data Driven (BDD), Cucumber framework.  ? Designed business applications using web technologies like NodeJS, React JS, HTML4/5, XHTML, and CSS2/3, Bootstrap based on the W3C standards.  ? Strong Hands on Experience with IBM MQ Series and JMS for communications between middleware components.  ? Hands on experience with various Application Servers and Web Servers including IBM Web Sphere, BEA Web logic, JBoss, Tomcat server with wide variety of development tools such as Eclipse, IBM RAD / RSA, My Eclipse and  ? Experience in RDBMS concepts knowledge and worked with MySQL, Sybase, Oracle 10g and DB2.  ? Proficient in SQL and wrote Stored Procedures, Triggers besides writing DDL, DML and transaction queries with development tools like TOAD and Aqua Data Studio.  ? Expertise knowledge in building applications using Rational Unified Process (RUP), UML and OOAD.  ? Involved in presentations and demos for the developed microservices framework.  ? Involved in developing Test plans, Test Cases (Manual/Automated), Test Procedures and white-box and black-box testing.  ? Written SQL queries, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers in databases like MySQL, SQL Server and Oracle.  ? Worked with version control tools such as CVS, SVN, and GIT for management of software systems.  ? Experience in working with IDEs like Eclipse, Spring Tool Suite, Net Beans and IntelliJ IDEA.  ? Experienced in implementing Enterprise Applications with full life cycle of software development.  ? Experience in working with AWS (Amazon Web Services), EC2, RDS, Dynamo DB, S3, Cloud Formation Templates.  ? Experience in using Log4J, Version Control using SVN, GIT and CVS.  ? Experience with unit testing using Junit and writing build scripts using ANT and Maven.  ? Worked on different OS UNIX (Sun Solaris, AIX), Linux, Windows7 and Windows XP.  ? Good team player with ability to solve problems, organize and prioritize multiple tasks. Work Experience Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Autonation - Rye, NY October 2017 to Present Project Description:  In this project, considering the fact regarding car collisions that occur in the daily life. This application represents the different aspects that can be taken into consideration for fixing the cars. So in this application we worked on the application to order the parts of the car that are damaged during the collision between the parts supplier and collision centres.  Responsibilities:  ? Worked on application architecture and re-design of different parts of the application.  ? Developed applications using JAVA 8, spring boot, Apache Camel and Oracle.  ? Worked to secure our RESTful web services using OAuth 2.0 with spring security to authenticate any third party requests coming in.  ? Automated build process through Mavenbuild Framework.  ? Used Git to maintain the version of the files and took the responsibility to do the code merges and creating new branch when new feature implementation starts.  ? Used Software Configuration Management (SCM) tools like CVS, VSS (Visual Source Safe), SVN, TFS & Java Build tools like Apache Ant & Maven.  ? Used Eclipse Rich Client Platform (RCP) for the development of the project.  ? Involved in developing front end screens using JSP, Groovy, JSTL, JQuery, XSLT, DHTML, HTML5, CSS, AJAX, CSS3 and JavaScript. Also, involved in adding the Internationalization to the existing application.  ? Installed, configured and deployed the applications on WebSphere Portal and Application Serve with SOA Governance.  ? Involved in reviewing and assessing current infrastructure to be migrated to the AWS cloud platform.  ? Created customized AMIs based on already existing AWS EC2 instances by using create image functionality, hence using this snapshot for disaster recovery.  ? Implemented and maintained the monitoring and alerting of production, corporate servers and storage using AWS Cloud Watch for efficiency.  ? Used POSTMAN client for testing developed Web services and written JUnit class for testing API layer and Service Layer to accomplish TDD approach  ? Implemented Web-Services to integrate between different applications components using Restful.  ? Implemented the REST API's and data transformers using the JAVA connector which involves use of JAVA 1.8 features like Lambda and Streams in particular.  ? Setup the Continuous Integration (CI) process for the application using the Jenkins. Worked on Log4j to validate functionalities and JUnit for unit testing.  ? Worked with a team involved in developing the front-end UI layout using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, JavaScript and AngularJS.  ? Configured AWS Identity Access Management (IAM) Group and users for improved login authentication.  ? Used Angular 2 HTTP Client to Interact with Servers/backend and modularized the Application with NgModule.  ? Created Logging aspects for auditing and logging purposes using Spring AOP and implemented security for the application using Spring Security.  ? Developed Apache Camel endpoints and used producer template to route messages to JMS queues.  Environment: JAVA 8, spring boot, Apache Camel, Oracle, AngularJS, Angular 2, JQuery, HTML5, CSS3, spring,  AOP, Log4j, GitHub, Maven, Postman, J2EE/J2SE, Java 6.0, JQuery, Spring MVC, DI, ORM, Multi-Threading, Batch, Hibernate 3, CSS3, XML, HTML, JSP 2.0, JBoss, Mysql, Microservices, IBM MQ, Mongo DB, React JS-Red ux, AWS, java 1.8, OAuth 2.0. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Cars.com - Chicago, IL August 2015 to September 2017 Project Description: Consideration the fact of number of visits every month to Cars.com, which is the leading online destination for the shoppers and owners. This project indicates the credible and also the easy-to-understand information that can help the users to research, price, quality service, repair providers and also search for the other inventory.    Responsibilities:  ? The Design and development of this project is done using the Agile Scrum Methodology through which we can break down the project into several sprints.  ? The whole project is developed in the MVC application according to the requirements of the user, which is done mainly by using Spring MVC, Jquery, AngularJS, JSP, JSTL, HTML and CSS.  ? The Design and Architecture of the project is discussed and the technology stack suited for the project is chosen for the development.  ? Designed and implemented the UI using HTML, JSP, JavaScript, AJAX, and JQuery and AngularJS  ? Working on designing and building micro services.  ? Microservices has been built using spring boot, Mongo, spring security and deployed to pivotal cloud foundry  ? The validation is written in Spring Validators and the configured dispatch servlet and tiles view resolver for Spring MVC.  ? Developed various Spring Rest Controllers for the request mapping and created JSP custom tag libraries for the application.  ? The implementation of the business logic is done using spring service layer and Spring DAO layer using Spring Framework 3.2.  ? Configuration of spring declarative transaction manager and implementation of transaction management in DAO layer.  ? Given major contribution in client side coding using Angular.js framework and React.js framework.  ? Moved existing AngularJS controllers and services to Angular 2 components for more responsive and less dependency.  ? Enhanced legacy application by building new components in Angular 2 and typescript.  ? React JS was used to build application that updates constantly over time.  ? Integrated spring and Hibernate configured logging using log4j and the the development of exception handling is done for the Application.  ? Data retrievals are written in Hibernate Criteria and performed in the ORM mapping to map the Java entities to database tables.  ? Implemented Multi-Threading for expanding the productivity of existing process.  ? Experience in built web services using spring and CXF operating within ESB, offering REST, AWS and SOAP interfaces.  ? Build SOAP Web Services based on AWS (Amazon Web Services)  ? JTAPI is developed for auto generation of voice calls to all Mobile Platforms using JAVA voicent Framework.  ? Web pages are developed by using spring tag library, JSP custom tags, ember JS plugins and ember JS UI components.  ? JUnit test cases are written to test the spring /DAO layer and created Batch Services to generate reports using Spring Batch.  ? Hibernate 3 is used for accessing and persisting the data between the Java objects/classes and a relational database.  ? Server side Micro services development in spring.  ? Performed MQ Series administrative functions and 24X7 production supports.  ? Performed MQ installations and fix pack initiations and upgrades.  ? Implemented Java programming while building microservices using Spring Integration and RESTful.  ? Configured JMS connection factories and message brokers in JBoss, and also participated in building and promoting the application to other environments.  ? Wrote Spring JMS message liteners to consume JMS messages coming from external applications using JMS Template.  ? Developed HQL queries for reports and also Criteria queries to get the data in the Data tables using MySQL.  ? Implemented flux pattern by using React Redux framework.  ? Used Subversion for software configuration management and version control.  ? Involved in Unit & Integration Testing of the application.  ? The application is supported on different environments from Test to Production Environment, analyzed and fixed the errors assigned to me by the users of the application.  ? Used Jenkins, AWS Code Deploy plugin to deploy the application into AWS cloud.  Environment: J2EE/J2SE, Java 6.0, JQuery, Spring MVC, DI, ORM, Multi-Threading, Batch, Hibernate 3, CSS3, XML, HTML, JSP 2.0, JBoss, Mysql, Microservices, IBM MQ, Mongo DB, React JS-Red ux, AWS, java 1.8, Windows 7, Sub Version, Rally, Eclipse Kepler. AJAX Java/J2EE Developer Master Card - St. Louis, MO January 2014 to July 2015 Project Description: MasterCard Worldwide is an American Multi-national financial service corporation in which the business is to process payments between the Merchant's Banks and the card issuing banks or credit unions of the purchasers.  Responsibilities:  ? Design and Development of the application is done by using Agile Methodology and followed TDD and Scrum.  ? Developed the Product Builder UI screens using Angular-JS  ? Developed Angular-JS components such as controllers, Services, filters, models and used Http service for rest service invocation.  ? Creating custom use modules and components, which extend the elements and modules of core Angular-JS.  ? Used React JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  ? Worked on props, refs and wiring the components with React router.  ? Developed custom directives (for simultaneous file uploads) and created Angular JS services to consume in controllers.  ? Implement the JavaScript/JQuery frameworks such as React JS, Node JS for MVW/MVC framework.  ? Responsible for maintaining and expanding AWS (Cloud Services) infrastructure using AWS Stack  ? Configured routing in the single page application promoting rich user experience.  ? Designed and developed the Simulator API for Amazon S3.  ? Maintained AWS infrastructure and developed back end services.  ? Used AWS SQS with JMS API for asynchronous communication by keeping messages in the Message queue.  ? Developed unit testing for angular components using Mocha, Chai, Gulp, Karma, Istanbul and Protractor.  ? Created custom angular filters to filter the data based on user selection in bootstrap dropdowns.  ? Implemented angular form validations and used bootstrap to show error, warning and info messages  ? Configured spring security in the application with LDAP Template and access controls using Spring security annotations based on user roles.  ? Developed Spring Jersey resources for various HTTP methods and to send the requested data in JSON format to the web interface.  ? Implemented AngularJS filter to make the data searchable and sortable.  ? Used Angular JS framework for building web-apps and is highly efficient with PHP framework.  ? Developed front-end code with Ajax call in AngularJS and jquery to retrieve data as JSON Object from controllers in back-end RESTful Server, then display the well organized result in web pages by writing AngularJS controller, directives, services, and route providers.  ? Created Collections and documents and performed CRUD operations with Mongo repositories.  ? Developed API using Node.js to allocate access to data in SQL, MongoDB.  ? Written variety of filter queries in MongoDB to retrieve JSON data and passed to service layer.  ? Developed ORM mappings using Hibernate and wrote Criteria, Named and HQL queries for data retrievals in the DAO layer.  ? Wrote effective JavaScript Code for React JS and Node JS applications for interacting with server and Network applications.  ? Implemented JAX Web services by applying SOA concepts in conjunction with SOAP.  ? Used Web Services for sending and getting data from different applications using WSDL messages, such as task details from Work distribution, getting the status on the same, etc.  ? Used Apache AXIS on Eclipse Web Tools platform for developing creating the Web Services. Integrated with Spring IOC while implementing Web services.  ? Created Node.js Express server combined with Socket.io to build MVC framework from AngularJS Front End to MongoDB Back End to provide chatting service.  ? Used spring declarative transaction management and Spring Batch and scheduling for backend data processing.  ? Implemented Normalization rules using regular expressions for minor parties.  ? Implemented RESTFul web services API using HTTP and REST principles.  ? Created features including Single Sign On with existing client website and a REST API to expose manipulation functionality to external clients using AngularJS.  ? Built Restful API server to achieve CRUD operations for posts using Jersey, JAX-RS, JSON, spring REST using MEAN stack (MongoDB, Express, AngularJS, Node.js) Technologies.  ? Works with business analysts and coordinates with them to make sure the data is being populated properly.  ? Involved in writing JUNIT test cases and day to day builds and deployments using MAVEN and Jenkins.  ? Involved in working, updating and closing the tasks created in Microsoft Team Foundation Server.  ? Involved in converting the docket conversion system is to into XML that can be loaded into the Novus system.  ? Worked with WAS admin to deploy applications on Web sphere Application Server.  ? Involved in Parsing the HTML and ENCRYPTED Data in to readable format and generate XML.  ? Used Node.js for creating event driven frameworks in scalable networks.  ? Formulated template with JSON data from Rest API endpoint using AngularJS routing services and used its Cache services in it.  ? Involved in AWS and Pivotal Cloud Foundry scanner integration design discussions.  ? Worked with AEM team to administer environments to ensure configuration is optimized as per requirements.  ? Did the application support on different environments from QA to Production.  ? Involved in Writing and Executing SQL Scripts and responsible for fixing the issues and monitoring it to make sure it releases in time.  ? Day to Day Scrum meetings to update and discuss issues.  ? Involved in fixing the bugs biweekly iteration and publishing the Dockets to all Environments.  Environment: Java1.8, JQuery, Spring 4, Spring boot, Angular-JS 1.3, React JS, Node.js, Angular-UI, Jersey, Mocha, Chai, Karma, Istanbul, Gulp, AWS EC2, Ldap, Hibernate, Agile, Websphere, Oracle11g, Unix, Eclipse, Brackets, TFS, SQL, Maven, Jenkins, NoSQL, Pivotal Cloud Foundry, Mongo DB, Webservices, JUnit. Sr. Java Developer First Federal Bank - Defiance, OH June 2012 to December 2013 Project Description: One of the 20 largest independent bank holding companies in USA is First Federal Bank Corporation, with more than 750 branches, free account access at more than 1800 Federal Bank places. It maintains variety of products including lines of credit, demand noted, term notes, letters of credit. It also deals with Collateral information such as vehicles, mortgages and trust accounts.  Responsibilities:  ? Designed and developed the application using agile methodology and followed TDD, Scrum, pair programming.  ? Wrote Technical design document with the class, sequence, activity diagrams in each use case.  ? Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using Jquery, JavaScript and Angular JS.  ? Implemented J2EE design patterns such as Session Facade, Factory, DAO and DTO.  ? Worked with Angular JS MVC framework including authoring complex directives, services, controllers and filters.  ? Customized Angular JS filters in several locations to get the required output.  ? Implemented Angular Controllers to maintain each view data.  ? Utilized Angular.JS UI-bootstrap components like time picker, directives, model pop-ups, ng-grid, router, progress bar, ng-Idle, ng-Upload.  ? Implemented flexible routing and nested using Angular.JS-ui-router. Used Bootstrap and media queries to create a Responsive Webpage across different screen-sizes.  ? Integrated the service call with UI using $http and $resources which are substitutes for AJAX in angular.  ? Developed various reusable Helper and Utility classes that are used across all the modules of the application.  ? Designed and developed Business components and Integrated with Spring framework.  ? Wrote data Components for Plan Setup, wrote and called StoredProcedures using Java, HQL, Hibernate.  ? Involved in configuring and integrating spring and Hibernate frameworks.  ? Involved in design and implementation of MVC architecture in different modules.  ? Responsible for writing utility classes, UI development using JSP, CSS3, HTML, JavaScript, Angular.  ? Integrated business layer using Hibernate with Spring DAO.  ? Used Angular JS Factories and Services to make Ajax calls or Restful Calls to get data in JSON Format.  ? Used Angular JS Directives like ng-app, ng-model, ng-init for initialization of Angular JS application data.  ? Played key role in the design and development of application using J2EE and Rest web service (Jersey frameworks) for Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) with JSON.  ? Responsible for working on consuming and producing SOA/Web Services.  ? Designed and Developed web services using JAX-WS, SOAP, JAXB, Apache CXF. Exposing and consuming the web services to the downstream applications using Apache CXF and Apache camel.  ? Used AngularJS $http, ngResources services for accessing content from Rest web services, provided custom services to integrate database with view pages along with pagination, Sorting of data, deep linking (AngularJS route service)  ? Implemented Angular JS Service layer with utility functions to get data from back end using Rest based service calls and pass back to Angular Controllers.  ? Designing user Interface using Angular UI components such as tabs, grids, dropdowns etc and configured the routing service using Angular-JS router.  ? Developed REST service documentation using Swagger UI and developed test cases using Junit and Mockito framework.  ? Developed REST exception handling controller advices to respond to bad requests and server side exceptions.  ? Build REST web service by building Node.js Server in the back-end to handle requests sent from the front end jQuery Ajax calls.  ? Created Restful APIs in Express and returned logic through AngularJS data binding.  ? Used MongoDB to import the data into and feed into web services and displayed it onto the browser.  ? Used Spring Batch to build the POJO-based development approach of the Spring Framework.  ? Wrote the DAO's to access the database using JDBC calls.  ? Involved in writing REST Web services in Groovy/Grails wrapped by Jersey JAX-RS.  ? Involved in using JPA ( Java Persistence API) frameworks and APIs such as JDO ( Java Data Objects) and Hibernate.  ? Implemented Spring Bean Factory to create proxied object using AOP framework.  ? Used AngularJS Global API to perform tasks like Comparing objects, Iterating objects and Converting data.  ? Performed document and collection mappings with Spring and MongoTemplate.  ? Implemented SOA architecture with Web Services using SOAP, WSDL and XML.  ? Designed & developed LDAP Authentication & Authorization Service using Java, LDAP, JNDI.  ? Involved in transforming XML data in to Java Objects using a JAXB binding tool.  ? Responsible for configuring and deploying the builds on Tomcat Web Server.  ? Involved in the Performance Tuning of the Application on client side.  ? Used Angular JS $http service to read data from remote servers.  ? Worked on JavaScript framework to augment browser based applications with MVC capability.  ? Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation within the forms.  ? Wrote notification service that executes daily, sends emails and escalations to participants.  ? Involved in Unit & Integration Testing for different Modules in the application.  ? Wrote build & deployment scripts using ANT, Maven, shell scripts and JACL on unix env.  ? Used Oracle Coherence in Java Collection API to access and modify data, and the JavaBean event model to receive data change notifications.  ? Did the application support on different environments from QA to Production. Was responsible for analyzing the issues, providing technical & functional support to the users and fix them.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring ORM, React JS, Spring IOC, NodeJS, Spring AOP, POJO, Data Sources, SOAP, WSDL, Hibernate, HQL, XML, MySQL, JBOSS, CVS, Eclipse IDE, JUnit, UNIX. Java/J2EE Developer Inovalon - Bowie, MD November 2010 to May 2012 Project Description:  It has an exhaustive product that addresses entire gamut of automation needs of the Hospital and comprises of the following activities: In-Patient & Out-Patient Administration, Lab and other Clinical Investigations Pharmacy, General Inventory and Purchasing, Pay-Roll & HR Administration tenancy of General and Biomedical equipment, Financial Accounting and Billing House-Keeping, Ward management, ICU and OT administration, Marketing Health Services.  Responsibilities:  ? Participated in coding, GUI design and testing.  ? Validation of the registered users using JSP-Servlets and JDBC with the details available in the Database.  ? Created documentation of the application.  ? Developed Servlets and JSP for Data retrieval implementation with User Interface.  ? Struts were employed to develop the web applications.  ? JBoss Fuse was the SOA architecture employed.  ? Developed Container Managed Entity and Session beans.  ? Developed web services in Java and Experienced with Service Oriented Architecture Protocol, WSDL.  ? JDBC with SQL/PLSQL for database connectivity.  ? Developed required Web pages using HTML.  ? Implemented EJB Components for modules related to Pharmacy, Purchasing, and General and Biomedical equipment. Used ExtJS Java datascript.  ? Involved in Different J2EE Design patterns like Session Façade, Service Locator, and Business Delegate.  ? Coded Server pages using JSP, Servlets, Struts by following MVC architecture.  ? Developed Action Classes and Action Forms beans.  ? Worked with the team in the development of the Application front-end using JSP, STRUTS with the help of HTML.  ? Involved in the integration performance and unit testing of the project.  ? Involved in the Performance related issues like open connections and open cursors.  Environment: WebSphere 6.0, SQL, JDBC, Java, EJB, Servlets, spring, JSP, HTML, Hibernate, JavaScript, JUnit, Ant, Oracle 10g and Windows XP. Java Developer Unit Testing - Hyderabad, Telangana February 2009 to October 2010 Responsibilities:  ? System Requirements gathering for the project.  ? Preparation of the Detailed Design document for the project by developing business process flows, requirements definition, use cases, and object model  ? Designed and implemented a GUI framework for Swing. Developers using the framework define actions, popup menus in XML, the framework builds the graphical components.  ? Designed the class diagrams and sequence diagrams.  ? Developed the presentation layer and GUI framework that are written using JSP and client-side validations were done using JavaScript.  ? Developed the application using Struts framework.  ? Created struts-config file and resource bundles for Distribution module using Struts Framework.  ? Implemented Action Form classes, Action classes for the entire Reports module using Struts framework.  ? Use MVC architecture.  ? Creation Test plan. Development and coding of Test classes and Test Cases.  ? Execution of Test cases in Jbuilder.  ? Defect fixing. Client communication & Query resolution  ? Testing of the product: Unit Testing, Regression Testing, and Integration Testing.  ? Used Eclipse as the IDE and Struts Framework for developing the application.  ? Developed the JSPs for the application.  ? Used UNIX shell scripts to automate build processes.  ? Worked on core java for multithreading, arrays and GUI (AWT)  Environment: Java, J2SE5.0, Struts, Servlets, JSP, Eclipse, Oracle 8i, XML, HTML/DHTML, Jbuilder. Education Bachelor's Bachelor's Skills JAVA (9 years), TESTING (9 years), ECLIPSE (7 years), JSP (7 years), XML (7 years), Java J2Ee, Spring, J2Ee, Hibernate, Rest Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages Java, J2EE, C++, C, SQL, Python  Java Technologies  Core Java, Collections, JDBC, Multi-threading, AWT, JSP, Servlets, JSTL, JNDI, Ajax, EJB, JMS, Java Beans, Custom Tags, , RMI, JCAPS, Design Patterns    Frameworks Spring, Struts, Hibernate, SPRING 3.0, HIBERNATE 3.0, WEB SERVICES (SOAP AND REST), LOG4J, JUNIT, JSF  Application Server IBM WebSphere, Apache Tomcat, Glass Fish, JBoss, Web Logic, TPT, CXL.  Web services SOAP, WSDL (JAX-WS), UDDI, REST (JAX-RS), Micro Services, APACHE CXF, AXIS, XFire  Web-Application Tools XML, XSD, JMS, Servlets, JSTL, EL, Custom Tag Library, JSP, JSF, JNDI, JPA, JAXB  Database DB2, Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL, PostgreSQL, Squirrel, Cassandra, Stored Procedures  Scripting Language HTML5, XML (SAX, DOM), XSL/XSLT, XPATH, Java Script, JQuery, Ajax, EXT JS, Angular JS, Angular 2, ReactJS, RedUx, Node.js  Core Expertise  Java GOF and J2EE design patterns, Core Java concepts - Collections, Java 1.5 features, Multi-threading, Exception handling, IO, Concurrency, Multithreading, Generics, Serialization, JDBC, java 1.8, Lambda expression. Etc.    Version control Tools CA Harvest, CVS, SVN, IBM clear case  Build Tools Ant, Maven, Jenkins, Cruise Control  Other Tools  Log4J, TOAD, SQL developer, HP Quality Center, Cloud Foundry, AWS (Amazon Web Services), JIRA, EMMA, Autopsy's, SOAP UI, IBM MQ, FileZilla, Putty, Edit Plus.    IDEs Spring Tool Suite, Maven, Eclipse IDE, NetBeans, RAD, WSAD, JBuilder, JDeveloper, Visual Studio.NET, Toad, Putty, JUnit, Log4j.  Logging Frameworks Log4j, Java Logging API, SLF4J  Testing Tools Junit, JMeter, Quality Center, SOAPUI  UML Tools Rational Rose, MS Visio    Operating Systems Solaris, Red hat Linux, , Mac and Windows