Java/J2EE Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/J2EE Developer - EWS,Scottsdale • Around 10 + years of experience in Software development, Maintenance and Support using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Involved in the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) phases which include Analysis, Design, Implementation,Testing and Maintenance.  • Expertise in Frameworks like Spring,Hibernate,Spring Boot.Jpa.  • Experience using the front end technologies like HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript, Angular JS.React JS.  • Well versed in using Software development methodologies like Waterfall,Agile Methodology and Scrum software development processes.  • Expertise in J2EE technologies like JSPs, Servlets, JDBC  • Extensive experience with Java complaint IDE's like Eclipse, IntelliJ.  • Expertise in core Java concepts like OOPs Concepts, Collections, Serialization, Java Streams.  • Strong programming skills in designing and implementation of applications using Core Java, J2EE, JDBC, JSP, HTML, Spring Framework, Struts, JavaScript.  • Experience in build scripts tools like Maven, ANT.  • Experience in Jenkins ,JIRA tools  • Experience in SOAP and Restful Web Services.  • Having Experience on Web-Services as Service Providers and Consumers using HTTP/XML, XSD and SOAP/WSDL of JAX-WS API.  • Experience in Support activities, Ticket solving.  • Strong analysis ,problem solving and debugging skills with excellent understanding of system development metrics ,  • Experience in Unix, Cloud infrastructure.  • Experience in SQL and RDBMS.  • Good verbal and written communication skills and ability to deal with people diplomatically.  • Java Developer with extensive experience on various Java Libraries, API's and frameworks.  • Excellent team player with the ability to create an environment of trust and cooperation through an open exchange  • Of ideas towards achieving the goals Work Experience Java/J2EE Developer EWS,Scottsdale April 2019 to Present Environment:  Spring ,Springboot, Hibernate, Maven, Unix, Restful Web services, Sql, Sql developer,Tomcat,Junit,Cucumber,Core java 1.8,Eclipse.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the design and development phases of Agile Software Development.  • Involved in design and development of Business Services by using Dependency Injection in Spring Framework & DAO Design Patterns.  • Involved in design and development of Restful Web Services for communication of different internal and external interface systems.  • Involved in design and development of SOAP Web Services for communication of different internal and external interface systems.  • Involved in Java Streams to process the File systems and validation of file processing.  • Writing Business logics for controller's using SPRING MVC and separating all modules independently in order to achieve loose coupling.  • Developed all the tiers of the J2EE application, implemented business logic using spring in the middle tier, developed beans, and helper classes to communicate with the presentation tier  • Developed web service client using REST HTTP protocol and the Spring Framework to fetch the customer information.  • Involved in JUnit Testing and Cucumber Automation.  • Involved in writing SQL queries. Java Developer Credit suise, Raleigh July 2018 to April 2019 Environment:  Core java 1.8, Springboot, Hibernate,JPA, HTML5, Maven, Cloud, Unix, ReactJS, Restful web services ,Sql, Sql developer,Tomcat,Microservices    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the design and development phases of Agile Software Development.  • Designed and developed independent implementation model classes that can be injected using spring IOC and reused across the application.  • Involved in design and development of Business Services by using Dependency Injection in Spring Framework & DAO Design Patterns.  • Involved in design and development of Micro Services for communication of different internal and external interface systems.  • Involved in Java Streams for File system process.  • Writing Business logics for controller's using SPRING MVC and separating all modules independently in order to achieve loose coupling.  • Used React JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  • Written stable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future.  • Used React JS components for built-in and synchronizing models with single page Applications (SPA).  • Developed user interface by using the React JS, redux for SPA development.  • Developed all the tiers of the J2EE application, implemented business logic using spring in the middle tier, developed beans, and helper classes to communicate with the presentation tier  • Used JSP, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, CSS3, and XML for parsing as presentation layer technologies.  • Created UI interface application module using front-end frame works such as React JS, jQuery, JSON, JavaScript, HTML5, and CSS, Bootstrap.  • Developed web service client using REST HTTP protocol and the Spring Framework to fetch the customer information.  • Involved in writing SQL queries. Full Stack developer Marathon Oil Corporation - Houston, TX August 2017 to June 2018 Environment:  Core java 1.8,J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Design patterns, HTML5, Eclipse IDE, maven, Cloud, Unix ,Angular 1.5, Restful web services , Tomcat    Responsibilities:  • Implementing design patterns like service factory design, Singleton design pattern and business delegate.  • Designed and developed independent implementation model classes that can be injected using spring IOC and reused across the application.  • Involved in design and development of Business Services by using Dependency Injection in Spring Framework & DAO Design Patterns.  • Used spring to implement dependencies between objects (Auto-wiring by XML and Annotation).  • Involved in design and development of Restful Web Services for communication of different internal and external interface systems.  • Writing Business logics for controller's using SPRING MVC and separating all modules independently in order to achieve loose coupling.  • Developed all the tiers of the J2EE application, implemented business logic using spring in the middle tier, developed beans, and helper classes to communicate with the presentation tier  • Used JSP, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, CSS3, and XML for parsing as presentation layer technologies.  • Created UI interface application module using front-end frame works such as Ionic, Angular JS, jQuery, JSON, JavaScript, HTML5, and CSS, Bootstrap.  • Developed web service client using REST HTTP protocol and the Spring Framework to fetch the customer information.  • Request & Response is achieved using Restful web services (all resources methods) to the ROR API.  • Worked in Agile environment for stockholders using tools like JIRA for project status tracking Java/J2EE Developer Citi - Tampa, FL December 2016 to June 2017 Project Name: EEMS  Description:  EEMS (Enterprise entitlement management system) is a fine grained a application entitlements and user provisioning platforms. EEMS has flexible entitlements data model that is compatible with industry standards .Architectures design to scale and it is integrated with corporate systems like CITI marketplace, OneApproval and LDAP. EEMS data model consist of subject, groups, role, actions and Resources. EEMS features includes supports for data , internal & external  Architecture for users, provisioning via CMP /One Approval , self service based on web based application with maker the Workflow simple, service in RPC and Rest web services admin API for report is reporting and audit entitlements compliance.    Environment:  Spring, Hibernate, Design patterns, HTML5, Eclipse IDE, maven, Web sphere application server, Cloud, Unix ,Angular 1.5.SOAP ,Restful web services, SVN    Responsibilities:  • Writing Business logics for controller's using SPRING MVC and separating all modules independently in order to achieve loose coupling  • Implemented the application using the Spring framework which is based on Model View Controller design pattern for clean separation of business logic from the presentation layer.  • Created UI interface application module using front-end frame works such as Ionic, Angular JS , JSON, JavaScript, HTML5, and CSS, Bootstrap.  • Request & Response is achieved using Restful web services (all resources methods) to the ROR API.  • Involved in development of SOAP based web services  • Implementing design patterns like service factory design ,Singleton design pattern and business delegate  • Designed and developed independent implementation model classes that can be injected using spring IOC and reused across the application.  • Developed the Bean classes , MVC Form based template and Created UI pages using Htmls ,JSP's and angular js directives  • Worked in Agile environment for stockholders using tools like JIRA for project status tracking  • Written angular Js services and custom filters which is globally applicable and used in our application  • Implemented directive based and controller for each modules as SPA (Single page application ) achievement  • Using angular JS framework Java/J2EE Developer GE - San Ramon, CA March 2016 to December 2016 Environment:  • Core java, Servlets, JSP, Spring, Hibernate, Design patterns, HTML5, java script, Eclipse IDE, maven, Web  • sphere application server , JQuery, SQL Server, Unix ,Mongo DB,GIT, Jenkins, Angular Js , Junit  • Project Name: Precision Mapper  • Description: PM is a cloud based application that allows user to upload, store,and process and share the aerial data easier and more cost effectively than ever before. User can instantly see surveys with an in-filed mosaic, view full resolution images, flight path and overlap quality ratings before uploading surveys. Cloud storage is processed through Amazon S3.    Responsibilities:  • PMDT is developed based on Spring Framework and ORM tool as hibernate with JPA implementation  • Designed and developed independent implementation classes that can be injected using spring IOC and reused across the application.  • Implemented the Server side validation using Spring Bean Validator Framework to use in all modules.  • AOP implementation for cross cutting logic like common logger and business auditing even for exception mapper.  • User Setup and Admin module screens are developed using HTML5, CSS3 and JQUERY.  • Used JSP, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, CSS3, and XML for parsing as presentation layer technologies.  • Development the application module using front-end frame works such as Ionic, Angular JS. jQuery, JSON, JavaScript, HTML5, and CSS.  • Handling request and returning response by using REST API for consuming and as well producing response back.  • Writing Business logics ,Service implementation ,request mapper controller's using SPRING MVC.  • Worked in Agile environment, used JIRA for project status tracking. Technology Analyst EON , Germany(Infosys) June 2014 to January 2016 Description:  • CRTS (CREDIT RISK TACTICAL SERVER) using for Risk calculations (TP and P&L) Operations and further development of various Microsoft SQL Server databases in the field of risk management controlling Implementation of interfaces to encircling databases and systems Business analysis for process optimization in the risk management department.  • Module: Data analytics which will be require on day to day data, weekly, monthly and yearly.    Environment:  Java/J2EE, Servlet/JSP, JavaScript, Restful Web Services, SQL, Eclipse IDE, Maven, jboss, Agile methodology, Spring Framework, Hibernate Framework.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed independent implementation classes that can be injected using spring IOC and reused across the application.  • Handling request and returning response by using REST API for consuming and as well producing response back.  • Writing Business logics, Service implementation, request mapper controller's using SPRING MVC.  • Involved in Form validation using Struts validator Framework.  • Involved in STRUTS(Model-View-controller Architecture)  • Developed the Action Classes, Action Form Classes, and Created JSPs using Struts tag libraries and configured in struts-config.xml, web.xml files.  • Collect appropriate user interface messages to display them in UI using common message service.  • Integrating web-tier and service layer using spring framework. Technology Analyst Telstra June 2012 to June 2014 Description:  • Telstra Support for a major Australia Service provider.  • Concilio project is a conference rating system for rating audio, data and video conferences.  • Customer conference activities are rated, using an approved rating model containing the current schedule of fees and charges, before the customers are billed (invoiced).  • After rating, the conference information and billable items are exported to the Telstra external billing systems so that customer invoicing can commence.    Environment:  Struts, Core java, Servlets Jsp, Oracle.    Responsibilities:  • Implementing design patterns like service factory design ,Singleton design pattern and business delegate  • Defect fixing and Maintenance tikckets resolving  • Involved in development Action classes and JSP's  • Involved in Form validation using Struts validator Framework.  • Involved in STRUTS(Model-View-controller Architecture)  • Monitoring Tickets on user changes and acting on them.  • Use Eclipse as IDE tool to develop the application and QC for bug and issue tracking  • Use CVS for software configuration management and version control  • Wrote complex SQL queries using joins, sub queries and correlated sub queries to retrieve data from the database Java developer Essent - NL May 2011 to June 2012 Description:  • Liferay Support for a major European utilities provider.  • Essent is the largest energy company in the Netherlands. It provides services like gas, electricity and energy to its customers. All of the Essent's applications were in SAP platform earlier and it has its own disadvantages. Infosys proposed to replace the SAP applications with an Open Source called Liferay.  • I was part of Essent Support of Phase-3.The UI layer of Essent's Intranet was replaced by Liferay framework. This transition brings in advantages like cost effective development/ change management, flexible and scalable, better user-experience etc.    Environment:  Liferay, Java/J2ee, Oracle,Jboss.    Responsibilities:  • Involved developing Liferay Admin and Liferay Portal services.  • Involved in Liferay upgradation.  • Monitoring Tickets on user changes and acting on them.  • Solving Tickets/SRFC's and technicality related requests.  • Configuring jBoss Servers and restarting them every day.  • Logging/Acting/Solving tickets raised in Assyst  • Preparing documents for all the SRFC's or test Cases.  • Interaction with onsite team for gathering requirements & Clarifications.  • Use Eclipse as IDE tool to develop the application and QC for bug and issue tracking  • Use CVS for software configuration management and version control  • Wrote complex SQL queries using joins, sub queries and correlated sub queries to retrieve data from the database Java developer UPS - Atlanta, GA October 2010 to May 2011 Environment:  Core java, Servlets Jsp, Struts, Oracle,tomcat    Responsibilities:  • Defect fixing and Maintenance tickets resolving  • Involved in Unit Testing and Integration Testing  • Quality analysis test plan preparation and testing.  • Used JDBC API to access database.  • Developed the Action Classes, Action Form Classes, and Created JSPs using Struts tag libraries and configured in struts-config.xml, web.xml files.  • Use Eclipse as IDE tool to develop the application and QC for bug and issue tracking  • Use CVS for software configuration management and version control Software developer Citibank - New York, NY June 2008 to October 2010 Environment:  Core java, Servlets, Struts, spring, JSP, Oracle    Responsibilities:  • Involved in design and development of Business Services by using Dependency Injection in Spring Framework  • & DAO Design Patterns.  • Involved in development Action classes and JSP's  • Involved in Struts with Spring Framework.  • Involved in Form validation using Struts validator Framework.  • Involved in STRUTS(Model-View-controller Architecture)  • Designed and developed independent implementation classes that can be injected using spring IOC and reused across the application.  • Implemented the Server side validation using Spring Bean Validator Framework to use in all modules.  • Developed the Action Classes, Action Form Classes, and Created JSPs using Struts tag libraries and configured in struts-config.xml, web.xml files.  • Collect appropriate user interface messages to display them in UI using common message service.  • Integrating web-tier and service layer using spring framework. Education M.C.A in Master of Computer application Osmania University