Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - J P Morgan Chase ? Responsible for the full software development life cycle (SDLC) using Agile Methodology, participated in Daily stand-up meetings with Scrum Master, co- developers communicated with testers and resolved tickets.  ? Application development experience using multithreading, Serialization, Externalization, Collections, Lamda's and Generics.  ? Exposure in working with full life cycle (SDLC) of Development and distributed computing technology.  ? Exposure to Java Web Services development using SOAP, REST, WSDL.  ? Knowledge on service oriented architecture (SOA), workflows and webservices using XML, Test Driven Development (TDD) Environment, SOAP and WSDL.  ? Used SVN and GIT for version control.  ? Worked with Build Automation testing and Continuous Integration tools like Jenkin.  ? Experience in developing applications using Eclipse IDE and IntelliJ.  ? Knowledge working with Databases like Oracle and SQL Server, HSQL and Cassandra and writing queries.  ? Excellent knowledge working with JUNIT's for unit testing.  ? A self-motivated professional, natural communicator possessing good technical, initiating and problem-solving skills and has proven to be a good team player. Work Experience Software Developer J P Morgan Chase October 2016 to Present Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Worked with agile methodology from gathering requirements and bringing up the use cases and working effectively with the changing requirements.  ? Developed Rest API's using spring boot, and Apache Cassandra datastax. Developed Rest API to consume Soap and Rest service by creating Soap and Rest client's.  ? Designed and developed web applications in Core Java, Spring, Spring Boot, My Batis, and Hibernate.  ? Stored Kafka producers to stream the data from rest API's to Kafka topics.  ? Developed micro services using Kafka as the messaging framework for communications using queues between microservices with Spring Boot, which is radically fast in building Microservices and develop Spring based application with very less configuration.  ? Developed Rest microservices using Spring Boot to call Cassandra and apply fallback options to call the system of record services (SOAP or Rest API) to fetch the data in case of inconsistency.  ? Good experience in Design and Development of database systems using RDBMS concepts including Oracle, PostgreSQL, MySQL and experience in writing SQL queries, also worked with No Sql DB Cassandra.  ? Worked on developing cloud configuration for spring boot applications and deploying the application on cloud environment.  ? Implemented and executed automated test scripts using cucumber, and JMeter to test the performance, used SOAP UI and postman as the web service testing tools for API Testing.  ? Accomplished with creating Test Plans, defining Test Cases, reviewing and maintaining Test Scripts, interacting with team members in fixing errors and executing User Acceptance Testing (UAT), Unit, System Integrated Test and Customer Test.  ? Worked on JMeter scripts to perform and analyze Performance Testing.  ? Excellent experience in Jenkins build and release processes and Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Quality Assurance Life Cycle (QALC).  ? Expertise in writing JUnit test cases using Junit Frameworks like Mockito and Mock and performs Unit, Integration testing also worked with TDD.  ? Working closely with the clients, gathering requirements and helping them with the end to end testing and fix the issues with the code as needed by maintaining CI.  ? Designing new components to fit in the already existing architecture using core Java, multi-threading different design patterns like the factory method, Abstract factory pattern, Singleton. While developing web-based applications used Web Services.  ? Involved in day to day handling of JIRA issues (production issue) that involved data inconsistencies etc.  ? Experience in using Log4J, and Version Control using SVN, Git. Initially used SVN as version control tool later used GIT after migrating the Services from SVN to GIT.  ? Involved in analyzing and resolving defects in postproduction and production resolved performance issues and participated in code reviews.  ? Involved in resolving NVS Issues and all security related vulnerabilities using fortify Workbench. Fixed Sonar issues and Jenkins builds.  ? Experience in configuring Jenkins build Jobs and executing the jobs to release the required artifacts.  ? Worked on Query optimization, functions and Stored Procedures and other database objects. Worked with MySQL, Oracle.  ? Involved in performing User Acceptance Testing (UAT) at the end of the test phases with the requirements collected from the user.  ? Used repository like GIT to maintain the version of the files and took the responsibility to do the code merges and creating new branch when new feature implementation starts.    Environment: Core Java, J2EE, REST Web services, SOAP web services, SOAP, Spring, Jenkins, JUnit, ECLIPSE, SVN, Tomcat, RESTful. Applications Developer JNIT Technologies, Inc October 2016 to August 2017 Client: J P Morgan Chase    Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Involved in all the phases of SDLC including Requirements Collection, Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications, Development and Customization of the Application.  ? Designed and developed Application based on Spring Framework, Spring MVC and Spring templates. Designed and developed web applications in Core Java, Spring, MyBatis.  ? Extensively worked with the retrieval and manipulation of data from the SQL Database by writing queries using Rapid SQL.  ? Used Spring Boot Actuator to monitor the health of the application.  ? Along with development regularly involved in Unit Testing code by using frameworks like JUnits.  ? Developed the persistence layer using Hibernate Framework, created the POJO objects and mapped using Hibernate annotations and Transaction Management.  ? Extensively used JSON to parse the data from server side to satisfy the business requirement in the calls of the application.  ? Setup the continuous Integration (CI) and continuous Deployment (CD) process for the application using the Jenkins.  ? Involved in SonarQube analysis using Jenkins build and had experience in working with fortify scan analysis in deploying application.  ? Experience in developing JAX-WS and REST Web Services client and exposing existing java components as Web Services using SOAP, WSDL and UDDI.  ? Proficient in writing efficient SQL, PL/SQL, PostgreSQL queries and writing Functions, Triggers, Sequences, Indexes, Views and Stored Procedures on database servers such as Oracle, DB2.  ? Used Jenkins to load JAR files from Database required for running the application.  ? Resolved bugs/defects in application by coordinated with team members of the project to assure a positive outcome using JIRA.  ? Implemented business layer using Core java, Spring Beans using dependency injection, Spring annotations.  ? Designed and developed the REST based Microservices using the Spring Boot.  ? Developed and consumed Restful web services to accumulate data and generate reports. Involved in unit testing and regression testing before production deployments. Developed Junit test cases for the developed application.  ? Go through the assigned JIRA issue requests of the project and work with Business requestor to finalize requirements based on the technical possibilities.  ? Understanding High Level Design and creating detailed technical Design documents.  ? Doing code review for the projects done by other teammates/ peer code review.  ? Used Jenkins tool to deploy application in cloud and non-cloud environments.  ? Tracking the defects/bugs till production phase. Interacted with Business requestor/ Client portfolio managers to finalize the requirements, UAT support and post-production support.  ? Involved in build and deploying the application using Tomcat server.  ? Implemented rules for code quality using Sonar, Code Pro, Find bugs.  ? Implementing new projects builds framework using Jenkins as build framework tools.  ? Involved in analyzing and resolving defects in postproduction and production resolved performance issues and participated in code reviews.    Environment: Core Java, J2EE, RESTful web services, JSON, XML, JAX-WS, Spring, Jenkins, MyBatis, JUnit, ECLIPSE, SVN, Tomcat. Java Developer JNIT Technologies, Inc January 2016 to October 2016 Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Hands on experience with complete SDLC life cycle like Analysis, Design, Development, Unit testing and Implementation of J2EE based web applications including application support.  ? Worked on Collections Framework, Multi-threading and Object Oriented Concepts using Core Java.  ? Used Spring Boot to create stand-alone spring applications.  ? Used Eclipse Integrated Development Environment for coding, debugging and testing the application modules.  ? Used Object/Relational mapping tool Hibernate and JPA to achieve object to database table persistency.  ? Analyze and fix issues related to REST Web services and Application responses.  ? Worked on developing REST Services to expose the processed data as a service.  ? Implemented Spring Security and Spring transactions in the applications.  ? Designed and developed Microservices business components using Spring Boot.  ? Involved in the configuration of Spring Framework and Hibernate mapping tool.  ? Extensively followed Test Driven Development to implement application business logic, workflow process and integration of application modules.  ? Followed Pair Programming to analysis, design, development, Integration, Testing and deploy the applications.  ? Used XML, XSD, XPath and JAXB for message transformations and mappings.  ? Used Maven for building and deploying the web application into WebSphere and configuring the dependency plug-ins and resources.  ? Wrote JUnit test cases for each line of the application code and performed validation. Used Git as version control tool.  ? Deployed components to the development environment, system test environment, and UAT environment.  ? Used simple Maven projects and Maven Archetypes projects for developing applications and provided JAR files for UI application use.  ? Created REST web services to send data in JSON format to different systems using Spring boot.  ? Tuned SQL statements using views and Stored Procedure.  ? Worked with SQL queries for data manipulations, Data extraction and Data Mapping. Experience in SQL joins, sub queries, tracing and performance tuning for running of queries.  ? Developed REST Web services. Used Postman and Advanced rest client to test web services. Developed both xml and Json request and responses using REST.  ? Used various Core Java concepts such as Exception Handling, Collection APIs to implement various features and enhancements.    Environment: Core Java, J2EE, RESTful web services, JSON, Spring Boot, Spring, Jenkins, JUnit, ECLIPSE, SVN, Tomcat. I-TV Technician University of Central Missouri August 2015 to December 2015 In the Office of extended Studies and Distance Learning at University of Central Missouri assisting Supervisor in all the work duties involved like managing classes and arranging them accordingly. Software Engineer Optival Health Solutions Pvt Ltd January 2014 to December 2014 Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Involved in requirement analysis, component architecture design and sequence activity diagrams for the necessary Service Components.  ? Used Eclipse IDE for application Development and used Maven for build automation tool to compile and generate EAR, WAR, and JAR files.  ? Using Git Hub As a version control and automating it with Jenkins for execution.  ? Created all the services to work with the various entities provided and restify the services using REST APIs with JAX-RS.  ? Used GIT HUB as version control software to manage the source code and to keep track of changes to files which is fast and light weight system.  ? Used Log4j as the logging framework, Worked on database connectivity using Oracle SQL Developer and pushing data back and forth from the database.  ? Tested the responses of the SOAP web services using SOAP UI and generated Mock Service in SOAP UI to simulate and test the functionalities of Web Service.  ? Troubleshoot the Web Services and Identify the issues based on the logs generated and fix the Issues.  ? Developed Web Service client interface with JAX-WS from WSDL files for invoking the methods using SOAP and Deployed the application using the Web Logic as application server.  ? Worked on client-server and web based technology using J2EE, XML Technologies and also involved in the Product Development, Worked on SOAP UI for testing request/response client internal/external web service and outbound internal/external web services.  ? Developed and consumed RESTful webservices in multiple projects, used SOAP for webservices by exchanging data between the applications.  ? Experience in open source framework Object Relational Mapping (ORM) tools like Hibernate and used Hibernate annotations to reduce time at the configuration level.  ? Used Spring Security to provide authentication, authorization, and access-control features for this application.  ? Developed and consumed REST Webservices. Used Postman and Advance rest client to test web services. Developed both xml and Json request and responses using REST.  ? Used REST to produce web services and involved in writing programs to consume the web services.  ? Used Jackson for converting JSON to domain object and domain to JSON vice versa.  ? Configured Jenkins with Plugins and created Jobs for Integration.  ? Used SVN, Maven for create the project archetype and build the interface modules for create war and ear files.  ? Supported Testing Teams and involved in defect meetings.  ? Documented the requirements and there by analyzed and involved in design, and development phase.    Environment: Core Java, J2EE, SOAP web services, SOAP, Spring, Jenkins, JUnit, ECLIPSE, SVN, Tomcat. Education Master's in Computer Science in Data Modeling and Implementation Techniques Project Management Tools and Techniques University of Central Missouri January 2015 to May 2016 Bachelor in Electronics and Communication Engineering in Electronics and Communication Engineering Vaagdevi Engineering College - Warangal, Telangana Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Spring, Jaxb, Git, Javascript