Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Deutsche Bank Raleigh, NC • Java Programmer with Over 9 years of experienced in Object-Oriented Analysis & Design, Development/programming for web based applications in JAVA/J2EE Platform.  • Specialization in designing applications using Swings, Servlets, JSP, JMS, EJB, RMI,J DBC, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, web Services (SOAP, REST), JAAS, Java Mail, JNDI  • Extensively worked on Message Oriented Middleware (MOM) Technologies like JMS and EMS technologies.  • Experience in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using Web Services (SOAP, REST) and RMI.  • Strong understanding of OOP concepts and design patterns  • Excellent knowledge in implementing Multithread Applications and resolving concurrency issues.  • Experience in spring technologies like IOC, AOP, JDBC, ORM, RMI and JMS.  • Good knowledge of Object/Relational mapping using Hibernate.  • Proficient in setting up End to End Software Upgrade/Migration of applications from WebLogic 9.x to 10.3, 12c and JDK 1.5, JDK 1.6 & JDK 1.7.  • Experienced in deploying J2EE applications over servers like Apache Tomcat , JBoss 5.1, Web Logic  • Experience coupled with good understanding of the concepts of Relational Database Management systems (RDBMS).  • Strong experience in database design and writing complex SQL Queries and Stored Procedures.  • Followed best practices using J2EE design patterns. (singleton, Factory, MVC, Front Controller, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Session Facade ,DAO, DTO ,Observer, and Adaptor)  • Good knowledge in performance tuning of JVM heap size, garbage collections, java stack.  • Good knowledge of build application using ANT tool, maven, configuring Log4j for handling errors and writing test cases using JUnit and TestNG.  • Experienced in the entire project life cycle, from inception to implementation including testing, analysis, design, development and Release management. Good leadership and, excellent technical writing and communication skills.  • Proficiency in debugging, problem solving.  • Excellent in client handling and ensuring full client satisfaction by understanding and meeting client expectations. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Deutsche Bank - Raleigh, NC April 2015 to Present Description and Project: Dealer is internal fx dealing source system which is a replacement for the legacy deal booking system GFX dealer. It included the features spot, forward and swap deal booking. The trades which are placed from other dealing sources are received and showing Dealer trade blotter. This blotter provides features to amend, view, cancel, allocate that are received. It provides several maintenance screens to customize this system according to the user specification. Trades placed in this system will flow to partnet system for further processing. Deals has different states once initiated like TICKETING, TICKETING CUST, CANCELLED and TICKETED. Trades status will be shown as TICKETED as soon as it receives processing acknowledge from FXPG.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on complete life cycle of software development, which included new requirement gathering, redesigning and implementing the business specific functionalities, testing and assisted in deployment of the project to the PROD environment.  • Involved in the Client Side development and the Server Side Development.  • Involved in developing and leading new modules, enhancements and change requests.  • Expertise in quickly analyzing production issues and coming up with resolutions  • Designed and created components for company's object framework using best practices and design patterns such as Model-View-Controller (MVC).  • Involved in designing and developing of Deal Booking Screens, maintenance screens.  • Developed different swings component for user interfaces.  • Use JMS concept for updating the blotters (Reports) and sending the deal information for partner systems  • BCP approach loading data into reports  • Implemented for Authorization frame work for allowing user access to resources only to those permitted to use them  • Developed the business layer logic and implemented EJBs Session beans  • Implemented distributed application using Spring RMI.  • Developed business components and configured as beans using Spring DI  • Communicated with different applications by using the webservices SOAP and RESTful.  • Involved in Quality process (Code Review & Bug Fixing).  • Develop test cases using TESTNG with spring frame work integration Spring -JMS, RMI, EJB  • Involved in requirement analysis with Business Analysts and Business users. Participated regularly in several discussions to freeze requirements to address challenges with ever changing requirements  • Performance tuning of JVM heap size, garbage collections, java stack and Native thread & production performance.  • Involved in unit testing, SIT and UAT Testing.  • Worked with the support teams on the release activities.  • Involved in application on-call support for immediate attention of issues  • Performance tuning, debugging issues in testing and deployment phases.  • Worked with ethical hack team during VA test and fixed VA issues.    Environment: J2EE, JDK 1.5, JSP, Struts 1.3, Eclipse 3.5, Hibernate, SQL Developer, Oracle 11g, Rational Clear Quest, JQuery 1.4, EJB 3.0, JPA 2.0, JMS, SQL, UML, MS Visio, and Scrum. Java Developer Frontier Communications - Richardson, TX February 2014 to March 2015 Description: Frontier Communications Corporation is a telephone company in the United States, mainly serving rural areas and smaller communities. Frontier is the sixth largest local exchange carrier and the fifth largest provider of digital subscriber line (based on coverage area) in the United States. In addition to local and long-distance telephone service, Frontier offers broadband Internet, digital television service, and computer technical support to residential and business customers.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in complete software development life cycle management using UML (Unified Modeling Language) - Requirements gathering, Conceptual design, Analysis, Detailed design, and Development.  • Coding interfaces for Web Services  • Application was developed using Spring MVC Web flow modules  • Implemented spring framework for application transaction management  • Created connections to database using Hibernate session Factory, using Hibernate APIs to retrieve and store data to the database with Hibernate transaction control.  • Involved in the development of Page Flows, Business Objects, Hibernate database mappings and POJOs. Used xml style syntax for defining object relational metadata.  • Used Spring ORM to integrate Spring Framework with hibernate and JPA.  • Used Springs Jdbc and DAO layers to offer abstraction for the business from the database related code  • Used Spring AOP module to handle transaction management services for objects in any Spring-based application.  • Used Spring MVC framework & Integration for Server side programming.  • Responsible to update/verify CDM for release level tasks.  • Developed JavaScript code for Client Side Validations. Involved in JAD sessions, documenting system requirements, creating application designs, validating high-level designs (HLDs) to ensure accuracy and completeness against the business requirements and programming the solutions.  • Developed Servlets and JSP to interact with Enterprise Java Beans (EJB) containing all the Business Logic.  • Used Hibernate as the persistence layer to interact with Oracle DB.    Environment: Spring Framework 3.0, Hibernate, Java 1.6, DHTML, HTML, CSS, Servlets, UML, J2EE, JSP, EJB, Struts Framework Taglibs, SQL, Java Script, Oracle 11g, Websphere Application Server, Eclipse, JUnit, JMock, WSDL, Web services, XML, XSLT, XSD (Schema Designs), SOAP 1.2, XPath, XQuery, UNIX, UML, JNDI, JDBC, JMS, Rational Clear Quest, Tortoise CVS. Sr. Java J2EE Developer OATH - New York, NY January 2013 to February 2014 Description and Project: OATH is an independent administrative law court that conducts nearly 300,000 hearings each year. Our mission is to provide fair and timely hearings and trials. OATH oversees the operations of four divisions: the Trials Division, the Hearings Division, the Environmental Control Board, and the Taxi & Limousine Tribunal. It also offers training services through the Administrative Judicial Training Institute and mediation services through the Center for Creative Conflict Resolution.  Taxi and Limousine Tribunal.  Responsibilities:  • Worked and developed multiple modules in the project using agile methodology.  • Involved in requirement review, design, development, deployment on to different environments (DEV, STAGE, UAT, and PROD) of application functionalities.  • Developed the application using JSF, spring MVC Frameworks , Java, Java script, hibernate,  • Proficient in developing SOAP and RESTful Web Services  • Coding interfaces for Web Services  • Used Core Java, reflection, Collection framework, multithreading, and Open source integration extensively with JSP, Servlets, EJB's, and Web service integrations with Spring Framework.  • Developed the UI and front end validations using JSF, java script, JSTL and AJAX.  • Worked on different util classes that are used all over the application for validations and formatting at the back end.  • Developed dynamic PDF's using iText.  • Developed and exposed a SOAP based web service using Axis 2 which is consumed by a .net application, used to save the audio file on the file share and create an event for adjudication.  • Consumed a secured web service by importing the certificates using key tool which is exposed by .NET application for retrieving the available slots of different inspectors.  • Used SOAP UI tool to validate the web service.  • Involved in developing user authentication functionality using LDAP with SSL.  • Developed Batch jobs and nightly jobs for loading the Taxi summons / ticket data from data files in to Taxi application.  • Monitoring the production logs and monitoring performance using JConsole.  • Worked on performance improvement using hibernate second level caching.  • Responsible for analyzing, finding the root cause and fixing the production issues.  • Extensive knowledge in deploying and maintaining the application on Tomcat server.  • Involved in reviewing and helping to develop store procedures required for the application functionalities.  • Developed queries that are required for the application development and implemented using different logics.  • Developed the live and default decision hearing module, which integrates with multiple modules of the application and web services.  • Worked on Ntlm password authentication module which validates the user credentials to access file shares.  • Implemented Scan functionality using 3rd party tool (DynamicWebTWAIN).    Environment: Java 7, J2EE, JSF, Spring , Hibernate, web services , XML, HTML, Java Script, Tortoise SVN, JIRA , Crucible , SOAP UI , SQL server 2008, JDBC, Eclipse, JConsole, Tomcat, Web logic Sr. Java Developer Wright Express Corporation - South Portland, ME January 2010 to December 2012 Description and Project: WEX is a global corporate payments company with a history of strong growth across a wide spectrum of business sectors.  Distributor Business Cards, Online user Enrollment, Report Manager, Credit options - Revolver.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in design, writing LLD and test strategy and developed application using agile technology.  • Developed a Fleet Based Web application and services that provides various users, Fleet Managers, Drivers, to maintain the Vehicle and Driver information, Transaction Management and reporting, Payments, Fuel and Gas station information.  • Individually responsible for requirement gathering, design, development and delivery artifacts for Report Manager.  • Involved in developing VXML scripts and testing them.  • Wrote JAVA Servlets that generates dynamic VXML.  • Developed both Static and Dynamic VXML pages using JAVA/J2EE components.  • Setting up the development environment using Struts, Spring Web flow, & writing the ANT build file and set up Beet performance monitoring.  • Experience is architecting, developing applications/products in Core Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlet. JDBC, Strutcs 2, Hibernate, Spring, Web Service, JUnit, XML, HTML and database like SQL Server Programmer, Oracle, Apache Tomcat  • Experienced in data exchange technologies like XML and Web Services  • Designed and developed communication between client and server using Secured Web Services, Cxf, spring and web logic server.  • Involved in development of the application writing and configuring the web flows, using struts & Spring MVC and writing actions, Spring Acegi security, writing DTOs and queries and Spring AOP for exception handling.  • Developed the front end user interface by utilizing the tiles framework and writing pages and templates JSP, HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, CSS & Jquery, and implementing tag libraries.  • Hands on experience on Server side validations using jquery, java scripts, jstl and custom tags.  • Individually involved in development of application specific custom tag libraries.  • Involved in setting up and managing Crucible code reviews  • Coordinating with the QA team, and resolving the QA defects.  • Involved in post release Stabilization and enhancement task of the application  • Writing the Java Documentation for Maintenance activities and release notes.    Environment: Java1.6, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, web services , XML, HTML, Java Script, ANT, SVN (subversion), JIRA , Crucible , VXML , SOAP UI , TOAD , JDBC, Oracle, Eclipse, IntelliJ , spring, Hibernate, Tomcat, Web logic, Windows. Java Application Developer Cellular South - Ridgeland, MS March 2008 to December 2009 Description and Project: CPE Assert Tracking System (CATS) is an inventory for ESP Application. Firstly ESP (Enterprise service Portal) is a service portal that allows MNS to operate as a premier service provider of managed services. This application gives 360o view of the customer information. CATS provide different perspectives of search criteria like customer, order, location etc. The main motto of the application is to give the rich user interface to present the data of the customer in a single screen with efficient querying. This application provides different levels of authorization and authentication base on the roles and responsibilities of the user. Users can export the search results to reports like excel sheets and PDF.    Responsibilities:  • Extensively participated in the analysis and design of the application.  • Implemented Mode-View-Controller (MVC) architecture using Struts framework.  • Designed and developed interactive presentation layer using Ajax, Struts view tags, JSP standard tags, tiles framework and Java script.  • Developed Server side validation checks using Struts validators and Java Script validations.  • Implemented reusable Pagination tag using JSP Custom Tags.  • Developed a code for ActionServlet, RequestProcessor, and Action classes by extending Struts package.  • Implemented persistence layer of the application using Hibernate.  • Spring framework was utilized for integrating Hibernate and struts frameworks with IOC concepts.  • Web services were used to validate data from external interfaces.  • Prepared a database schema for creation, selection, deletion, etc.  • Developed applications, which access the database with JDBC to execute queries, prepared statements, and procedures.  • Coding of SQL, PL/SQL, and Views using Oracle 10g for the database. WebLogic application server is used for deployment of the application.  • Performed Unit testing using JUnit.  • Used log4j for logging of the application.  • Source code version control was provided using CVS.    Environment: WebLogic, Eclipse, Hibernate, Spring, Struts, Oracle, J2EE, JMS, JSP Taglibs, Struts Tiles, HTML, JavaScript, XML, ANT 1.6.2, DOM, XSLT, SOAP, UML, JUnit, log4j. Jr. Developer UNILEVER - IN June 2006 to February 2008 Description and Project: Unilever is a leading FMCG Company with products on home, personal care, food & beverages. Customer Management Information System (CMIS) is developed to analyze sales data. Daily sales, Free of cost sales (FOC), Discounts and Stocks data from various distributors is loaded into CMIS.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, design and development of e-bill payment system as well as account transfer system and developed specs that include Use Cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Activity Diagrams.  • Developed custom tags, JSTL to support custom User Interfaces.  • Used Eclipse 3.1 for writing code for JSP, Servlets.  • Deployed the applications on BEA WebLogic Application Server.  • Developed JUnit test cases for all the developed modules.  • Used CVS for version control across common source code used by developers.  • Used Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  • Used JDBC to invoke Stored Procedures and database connectivity to ORACLE.  • Involved in implementing DAO pattern for database connectivity using JDBC  • Used AJAX and JavaScript for validations and integrating business server side components on the client side with in the browser.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, JNDI, Oracle 10g, DHTML, ANT, Rationale Rose, Eclipse 3.1, Unix, BEA Web logic Application Server, Hibernate 3.0, Spring, LOG4J, CVS. Education Bachelors of Technology in Electronics and Communication JNTU 2006 Skills ECLIPSE (10+ years), JAVA (10+ years), JSP (10+ years), ORACLE (10+ years), SQL (9 years), J2EE, JDK 1.5, JSP, Struts 1.3, Eclipse 3.5,Hibernate, SQL Developer, Oracle 11g, Rational Clear Quest, JQuery 1.4, EJB 3.0, JPA 2.0,JMS, SQL, UML, MS Visio, and Scrum. (8 years) Additional Information Technical Skills    Languages Java, C, C++, SQL, PL/SQL Java Script  Databases Oracle 11g/10g/9i/8i, SQL Server 2005  Web Technologies JSP, Servlets, EJB, JNDI, JDBC, JavaBeans, Swing, HTML, RMI  Framework Struts, Spring, Hibernate  XML Technologies XML, XSLT  Application Servers WebSphere, WebLogic, JBoss  Web Servers Apache Tomcat 7, Java Web Server 2.0  IDEs Eclipse , MyEclipse, Netbeans