Hybris Hybris Developer - Starbucks Seattle, WA Working as a senior e-commerce technologist with expertise in designing enterprise hybris e-Commerce Omni channel with having 12+ year of experience in e-commerce domain from design, implementation and deployment.  Having strong command on entire hybris e-Commerce extensions, platform and framework.  Technical specialization - Strong command on hybris e-Commerce suite (B2C, B2B and Telco), SOLR, Java/J2EE and Spring Framework.    Good working experience on Java platform, JSP, Spring, Servlets, Struts, Tomcat, and Oracle.  Thorough knowledge of OOPs concepts, Design patterns. Work Experience Hybris Starbucks - Seattle, WA February 2013 to Present The objective of this project is to handle B2C, B2B selling Starbucks various coffee pods, brewers and beverages other products etc. B2B Starbucks corporate sales including coffee machine and pods and accessories.    Responsibilities:  1) Working as Hybris Senior developer/ Hybris Architect.  2) Understand the whole requirement from the business/client, prepared high level design diagram and present to client with technical team.  3) Design the Hybris framework for Starbucks.  4) Responsible for coordination between IT/Business/Support Leads those are participating in application development activities.  5) Update/review the HLD and LLD for the entire project,  6) Prepared technical ISD with team and shared with across the vendors, review technical ISD; helping the team by solving their concerns related to design.  7) Arch, development process, coding, support UAT/Prod environment.    Frontend development & Integration -    Developed ecommerce website included functionalities like product browsing & search, customer login, customer profile, cart, order placement.  Order cancellation, Order return & Refund.  Product catalog management, content catalog management.  CMS cockpits, product cockpits, hac, hmc, Backoffice & impex.  OCC configuration and customizations.  Promotions configuration and customization (Order level and Product level).  SAP Integration with DataHub, idocs for inbound and outbound (products, price, inventory and Order details to SAP).  Implementation of Content management system (CMS) for website & content maintenance.    Integration - Media Integration with Scene 7.  Integration of payment gateways with couple of different payment options Credit and PayPal integration.  SMTP Email integration for notification and delivery purposes.  Integration with SOLR for search, merchandising and faceted navigation on website  Integration of 3rd party web services - Vertex, QAS, Paymetric, Bazarvoice & PayPal etc.    Hybris platform migration / Hybris Upgrade -    Design hybris framework for Starbucks  Platform migration form Hybris 5.1 to hybris 5.7.  Platform migration form hybris 5.7 to Hybris 6.3.  Implemented and enabled rule based promotion on hybris 6.3  Enabled SmartEdit on hybris 6.3 platform.    Technologies used: Hybris 5.1, hybris5.7, hybris6.3, SOLR, OCC, Data Hub, REST web services, CMS Cockpit, Product cockpit, Spring DI, MVC, AOP, Apache Tomcat 6, Adobe scene 7, JDK 1.8, Oracle. Developer Levis December 2010 to December 2012 Worked on development of Hybris B2C ecommerce portal for Levis, who are one of the world's largest sellers and manufacturer of clothes across the globe.    Responsibilities:  1) Worked as Hybris Senior developer.  2) Understand the whole requirement from the business/client, prepared high level design diagram and present to client with technical team.  3) Update/review the HLD and LLD for the entire project,  4) Prepared technical ISD with team and shared with across the vendors, review technical ISD; helping the team by solving their concerns related to design.  5) Arch, development process, coding, support UAT/Prod environment.    Frontend development & Integration -    Developed multilingual ecommerce website included functionalities like product browsing and search, customer login, customer profile, cart, order placement.  Product catalog management, content catalog management.  CMS cockpits, product cockpits, hac, hmc, impex.  Promotions configuration and customization (Order level and Product level).  Integration of payment gateways with couple of different payment options Credit card integration.  Integration with SOLR for search, merchandising and faceted navigation on website  Integration of 3rd party web services, Payments, Shipping, Tax,    Implementation of Content management system (CMS) for website & content maintenance.  Implementation of products, category and classification category and categorization of products.  Development of customer service portal for order fulfillment, customer grievance reporting and monetary reconciliation.  Development of cronjobs for integration of commerce system with client inventory management application.  Development of web service for client delivery store that helps them in order fulfillment.    Hybris platform migration / Hybris Upgrade -    Platform migration form Hybris 4.5 to hybris 5.1.    Technologies used: Hybris 4.5, Hybris 5.1, SOLR, REST web services, Apache Tomcat, CMS Cockpit, Product cockpit, Spring DI, MVC, AOP, Oracle. Ecommerce Java Developer Somerset, NJ August 2005 to October 2010 Ivoclar Vivadent is a leading international dental company with a comprehensive product and system range for dentists and dental technicians.    Worked on development of Ecommerce website which included:  Involved in design and development.  Involved in Data analysis.  Involved in the Java J2EE applications.  Involved in the end-to-end solution implementation Skills Hybris (6 years), SAP Hybris (7 years), CMS (7 years), Content management system (7 years), ecommerce (10+ years), hybris architect (3 years), CPI (2 years), CPQ (2 years) Additional Information Skills    Language: Java, Spring & JSP,  Ecommerce Technology: Hybris 4.5 to 6.7, SOLR, Cart, Checkout, Order cancellation, Return &  Refund, Promotions, WCMS, OCC API, CMS, HMC, PCM, Order Mgmt, Cron  Jobs, IMPEX, Flexi query, Data HUB, SAP ERP integration & Payment  Gateway, Hybris Platform upgrade.  Web Services: SOAP, WSDL, XML, REST Web Services  Internet Servers: Apache Tomcat  Job Function: Programming, Performance Tuning, Code review & Unit Testing  Middle Ware & Integration: MQ Series, Data Hub and SAP ERP  Tools: Eclipse 3.x, PL/SQL Developer, TOAD, SVN and GIT  RDBMS: Oracle  OS/Environment: Windows, Mac & UNIX  Search Engine: SOLR