Sr .Full Stack Java Developer Sr .Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Full Stack Java Developer - AT&T Alanta,GA • 10 + years of experience as a Front End/Web/UI Developer with solid understanding of Web Development and developing User Interface and experience (UI/UX) applications and web applications using HTML4/5, CSS2/3, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, Backbone.js, Angular.js, JSON and XML.  • Experience in all phases of software development life cycle (SDLC), which includes User Interaction, Business Analysis/Modeling, Design/Architecture, Development, Implementation, Integration, Documentation, Testing, and Deployment.  • Experience in client-side languages & frameworks like JavaScript, JQuery, Backbone.js, Angular.js; server-side languages like Node.js.  • Hands on experience with module definitions like AMD (Asynchronous Module Definition) and Common JS.  • Expertise in using task managers and orchestrators like Grunt and Gulp respectively.  • Hands on experience working and customizing CSS Frameworks like Bootstrap & Foundation using OOCSS and BEM patterns.  • Experience in developing and implementing Responsive Web Design (RWD) with cross browser compatibility support in browsers following W3C standards; Debug issues using tools like Browser stack.  • Expertise in using IDE tools like Eclipse, Sublime Text, Atom, Notepad++ and Dreamweaver.  • Expertise in analyzing the DOM Layout, MVC, and Java Script functions, Cascading Styles across cross-browser using Fire Bug, Chrome Developer Tools.  • Experience in creating style guides, best practices and setting UI standards for enterprise/consumer applications.  • Involved in designing the user experience interface UI/UX strategy, UI requirements, converting findings into UI designs  • Extensive experience in React, Redux and Node.js.  • Experience with Complex CSS layout, browser consistency, platform independent design.  • Experience in developing web applications using MVC architecture.  • Expertise in working with SPA's (Single Page Applications) using various frameworks like Backbone.js and Angular.js  • Experience in Angular.js features like Two Way Binding, Custom Directives, Controllers, Filters, Services and Project Architecture.  • Hands on experience in implementing and consuming various Node.js modules.  • Involved in design and development of table-less CSS Layouts as per W3C standards.  • Expertise in using various VCS (Version Control Software) tools like Git, SVN and Mercurial.  • Involved in a TDD (Test Driven Development) environment; Hands on experience in testing frameworks and tools like Jasmine, Mocha & Karma.  • Commendable involvement in understanding functional specifications and developing creative solutions to meet business requirements. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr .Full Stack Java Developer AT&T - Dallas, TX, US June 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis, Design, Development, UAT and Production phases of the application.  • Participated in JAD sessions gathering along with the Business Analysts.  • Designed application modules, base classes and utility classes using Core Java.  • Implemented the project as a multi-tier application using Spring MVC & used core spring concepts like AOP, IOC.  • Expertise in Core Java with strong understanding and working knowledge of Object Oriented Concepts like Collections, Multi-Threading, Concurrency framework.  • Implemented a SOA compliant system working on various transactional messaging using Camel and used Session Beans Message Driven Beans.  • Coded various business process methods required for creation of Web Services related to customer information and provider information, using JAX-WS, SOAP, WSDL and JAX-RS, REST web services.  • Implemented Hibernate for data persistence and management.  • Extensively used JQuery for faster JavaScript programming and followed better coding techniques for better performance and intuitiveness.  • Integrated spring with Hibernate as the data abstraction to interact with the databases.  • Implemented Singleton, Factory, DAO design Patterns based on the application requirements.  • Consumed and built web services in SOAP, REST supporting both XML and JSON by taking advantage of spring technologies.  • Developed the Presentation layer using HTML 5, JavaScript, and used AJAX/ JQuery based rich UI for improved customer experience.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using HTMS. CSS3, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Hands on Experience on relational databases involved in application development using RDBMS like MySQL, Oracle  • Developed single page application by using Angular JS.  • Used GIT for version control and Jenkins used for continuous integration.  • Wrote Stored Procedures and complex queries in Oracle 11g database.  • Used TDD design which relies on the repetition of a very short development cycle.  • Designed and developed Junit test cases during the development phase.  • Implemented the project using agile-scrum methodologies.  • Served as POC for on call support in the production team on a rotation basis.    Environment: Java 1.8, SOAP, Spring 4.0, Hibernate 4.0, RESTful Web Services, Hibernate 4.0, Jenkins, Angular 2.0, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery 2.0, JMS, Agile, Eclipse, Junit 4.4, TDD, Unix. sr.Full Stack Java Developer EXPRESS SCRIPTS July 2014 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  • Worked as a Senior Java Developer, assisting the team in developing a Web-based application.  • Used the functionalities for writing code in HTML, CSS, Angular.js, D3.js, Node.js, JavaScript, JQUERY, Ajax, JSON, and Bootstrap with MySQL database as the backend.  • Worked through cross browser compatibility issues with layout and styles for all new CSS that was implemented.  • HTML and CSS latest tags are used to design the webpages and HTML local storage web applications are used to store data.  • Styling pages with CSS and developed JavaScript for user interfaces.  • Developed interactive web application using Spring MVC, Ajax, JQuery, CSS and HTML.  • Designed and developed Application based on Spring MVC Framework using MVC design pattern.  • Integrated spring with Hibernate using Hibernate Template to perform CRUD operations against database.  • Designed and Implemented the DAO layer using spring, hibernate.  • Designed and developed various modules of the application with J2EE design architecture, Spring MVC architecture and Spring Bean Factory using IOC, AOP concepts.  • Developed server-side services using Java, spring, Web Services (SOAP, WSDL).  • Wrote custom JSP tags for role-based sorting and filtering.  • Implemented Java/J2EE design patterns such as Factory, DAO, and Singleton.  • Used Hibernate in persistence layer and developed POJO's, Data Access Object (DAO) to handle all database operations.  • Used JMS for sending and receiving Message through application server  • Used Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping (ORM) and data persistence.  • Brief experience on implementing the Angular JS in creating animations based on CSS classes.  • Used Angular JS as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA), which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  • Web application frontend development utilizing Angular Js, CSS and JavaScript.  • Implemented MVC architecture by applying Angular JS framework.  • Made enhancements to existing CSS and DIV tags, made upgrades using Twitter Bootstrap model.  • Used Bootstrap front-end framework for faster and easier web development.  • Create edit and maintain sites implementing responsive design & themes using front-end development frameworks including Bootstrap.  • Extensively used Selectors in JQuery for updating content on DOM nodes.  • Used spring framework to support developing robust java applications very easily and very rapidly.  • Experienced in all phases of UI/UX implementation of a Travel Search and Booking web application including Design, Prototyping, Development and testing phases.  • Met with the project manager frequently for reviewing project goals and for creating proposals for future developments and researching their fields for UI design.  • Utilized various JavaScript and JQuery libraries, AJAX for form validation and other interactive features.  • Implemented JavaScript source code, embedded nested handling logic using JQuery event handlers and call back functions.  • Used natural language processing web services to compute statistic report from large data sets collected from customer.  • Used UNIX shell scripting, writing UNIX wrapper scripts and monitoring the UNIX logs to check for any errors.  • Managed and deployed Microservices onto Docker using Vagrant, Virtual Box, and Puppet  • Used Maven script for building and deploying the application.  • Developed required Restful web services for the application with integration of existing softmart Web application.  • Applied data transformation business rules to transform code from one format to another format using NodeJS.  • Developed BDD tests using Cucumber by writing behaviors and step definitions. Developed required Selenium support code in Java for Cucumber and Expert in designing Test Automation framework and report generation strategies in Selenium for web-based applications.  • Installed and maintained NoSQL Database MongoDB.  • Used Apache Camel for message routing  • Used Jenkins, Gradle for the automatic application build process.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular.js, Bootstrap, JSP, Spring, Node.js, Hibernate, Microservices Maven, Spring MVC, JMS, Apache Camel, Restful web services, Spring boot, Selenium, Gradle, Shell scripting, Mongo DB. Java Developer Cigna - East Hanover, NJ, US April 2012 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  • Used Web Logic to build and deploy the application.  • Created stubs to consume Web services.  • Involved in writing JSP and JSF components. Used JSTL Tag library (Core, Logic, Nested, Beans and Html Taglibs) to create standard dynamic web pages.  • Implemented with Angular using its advantage including two way data binding and templates.  • Identified the defects through Selenium and ensured that business processes deliver the expected results and remain reliable throughout the production release.  • Developed Ruby on Rails 3 web applications using MongoDB and back-ground processes using Resque and Redis.  • Designed and developed the session module using J2EE for existing cold fusion application.  • Implemented build scripts using Maven and GIT technology for version control.  • Used CQL (Cassandra Query Language) to read from and write data into Cassandra database.  • Worked on NoSQL databases including HBase, Mongo DB, and Cassandra.  • Good experience in creating and consuming Restful Web Services.  • Designed and developed backend application servers using Python.  • Created custom user defined functions in Python language for Pig.  • Managed application deployment using Python.  • Upgraded Python 2.3 to Python 2.5, this required recompiling mod python to use Python 2.5.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Backbone.js, and node.js.  • Used Solr queries on top of Cassandra to fetch the results.  • Implemented Spark using Scala and Spark SQL for faster testing and processing of data.  • Automated tests were coded in Java Script with Frog logic's Squish or Smart Bear's Test Complete for client applications and coded in Java with Selenium for web application testing.  • Extensively implemented AngularJS components ng-click, ng-repeat, ng-model, ng-show, ng-clude etc.  • Involved in building EJB Session/Entity beans to maintain Transaction Management across the application.  • Developed client GUI modules using Swing, Java script and Flash.  • Used Junit for testing the application and Maven for building Projects.  • Creation of a Tasty pie like module for Node.js - REST APIs design.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using JavaScript and Angular js.  • Developed JSP Views, Actions and delegating the tasks to corresponding session beans.  • Working on Struts Framework for developing the front-end application and extensively. Spring as middle tier for entire application.  • Involved in working with Struts Tiles for the common look and feel for a web application.  • Working on Web Services using Java API for XML Services (JAX-WS) and supporting, building, deploying Web APIs Services.  • Connected server and database to update data information with Node.js and MONGODB.  • Wrote PL/SQL statements according to the need using Oracle 10g database.  • Working on an internal web-based client server application built with Struts 2 Framework using Oracle backend Database, working on establishing the relation for the different beans using the Hibernate.  • Involved in writing various components using Spring AOP and IOC framework.    Environment: Java , Struts Framework, Oracle, HTML, PL/SQL, JDBC, Stored procedures, Web Logic Application Server, Hibernate, Ant, JAX -WS Web Services, WSDL, EJB. Java/J2EE Developer Emblem Health - New York, NY, US September 2010 to March 2012 Responsibilities:  • Participated in Requirements gathering, Analysis, and Design and Development phases of the project with major emphasis on Development of the modules.  • Interacted with business users and testing team to develop requirements, use cases, class and sequence diagrams, Functional Specification, Database Design, Program Specification and project and test plans.  • Implemented Agile Scrum Process in the form of daily standup meetings and pair programming.  • Created Spring MVC Controllers, Spring MVC-REST based JSON services.  • Used Content management tools like Drupal for Job Track module and Word Press for plug-in Architecture.  • Used spring security framework for authentication security flow and permission security flows.  • Worked extensively with Java including Threads, collections, Servlets  • Worked with JAX-RS, SOAP, JAX-WS to create Web Services and consuming the existing services  • Developed and maintained the client-side application using JSP, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Consumed Rest Based Services from AngularJS with HTTP services.  • Responsible for data validation on the Client side by using JavaScript.  • Developed, deployed worked on UNIX OS with extensive UNIX shell scripting.  • Used custom tag libraries for the structured display of the screen.  • Used ORM Hibernate for mapping Entities: one-to-one, one-to-many, many-to-many, cached data using EH Cache.  • Developed IBatis mappings and configurations and used IBatis as a persistence layer to connect the application to the database.  • Used Oracle SQL Developer for development of database, accessing tables, creating stored procedures and back-ups. Used Log4j for logging and tracing API. Developed pom.xml for the build of the application using Maven.  • Developed web services, SOAP message envelopes and headers using WSDL, UDDI, XML and JAXP.  • Extensively used Rational Clear case for version control.  • Developed the application on Web sphere using Web sphere Integration Developer 6.0.  • Used Mercury Quality Center as bug tracking tool.    Environment: Web sphere 6.1, Spring 2.5.x, Spring MVC, Java 6.0, JQuery 1.4, AJAX, JSTL, XML, XSLT, IBatis, Hibernate ORM, Java Script, AngularJS, JSP 2.0, JUNIT 4, JAX-WS, Multi-Threading, Web sphere Integration Developer 6.1, Oracle 10g, SQL Developer 1.2.1, Rational Clear Case 7.0.1.5, Mercury. Java Developer Client & Location - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN June 2008 to August 2010 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis and Design of the project, which is based on MVC Architecture and Design patterns.  • Developed UI pages using JSP, HTML, JQuery, CSS, and AJAX.  • Wrote JavaScript for client-side validation.  • Used Eclipse for writing JSPs, Struts and other Java code snippets.  • Developed Controller Servlets, Action and Form objects for interacting with Oracle database and retrieving data.  • Wrote custom support modules for upgrade implementation using PL/SQL, UNIX.  • Developed activity, sequence and class diagrams using Unified Modeling Language (UML) and Rational Rose.  • The Application was deployed on Apache Tomcat Server.  • Used Junit framework for Unit testing.  • Monitored the logs using Log4J and fixed the problem.  • Used CVS for version control code used by developers and Developed J-Unit test cases for all developed modules.    Environment: Java, JavaScript, JSP, HTML, AJAX, XML, DOM, SAX, JNDI, Struts, PL/SQL, UNIX, Rational Rose, Apache Tomcat, Oracle, Junit, ANT, Log4j, CVS, Eclipse. Education Bachelor's Skills ECLIPSE, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, INTELLIJ IDEA Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages Java/J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, Perl, UML, XML, XSL, XSLT, JQuery  Java Frameworks Servlets (3.x), JDBC (4.x), JSTL Java Server Pages (JSP 2.x), JSF, JMS, JPA.  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, JAVASCRIPT, AngularJS, AJAX, Backbone.js, JQuery, SOAP and Restful), Node.js.  Frameworks Struts (2.x.x), Spring (3.x/4.x), Hibernate (3.x/ 4.x), Apache Camel (2.x), Swing, Apache CXF, Apache Karaf.  Servers Tomcat (8.x/ 9.x), Web Logic (9.x), Web Sphere (6.x), Red Hat JBoss Fuse, Glassfish Server (4.x).  Databases Oracle 10g/11g/12c, MSSQL, MySQL (5/6), IBM DB2, MongoDB (3.x), Cassandra (3.x).  Tools Ant (1.x, Gradle (3.x), Maven (3.x), Log4j, Git (1.x/2.x), SVN (1.x), CVS (1.x.x)), Junit (4.x), Selenium (3.x/ 4.x) Mockito), Jenkins, Hudson and Bamboo.  IDE Eclipse Luna(M6), Mars(M7), Neon(RC3), IntelliJ IDEA(15.x), Net Beans(8.x), RAD(7.x)  Platforms Windows (7/ 8/10), Windows Server 2008/12, Ubuntu (15.04), Red Hat Enterprise Linux.