Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Verizon Communications Dallas, TX ? More than 9 Years of experience in Web Application Development & Designing.  ? Proficiency in Java, J2EE and the latest frameworks like JSF, Oracle ADF components.  ? Extensive experience in developing various web based applications using Hibernate and Spring frameworks.  ? Experience with WEB 2.0 technologies like DWR, Ajax and CSS.  ? Strong interpersonal and communication skills with an ability to lead a team and keep them motivated.  ? Expertise in Object Oriented Concepts, Object Oriented Design (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis (OOA) Programming.  ? Vast experience with Core Java and J2EE using most of the advanced features of Java including JDBC, Spring, Struts, EJB, Servlets, Hibernate.  ? Strong command in JavaScript leading Frameworks Team like Angular.js, React.js, backbone.js, bootstrap.js, Node.Js and Projects UI Designing Team.  ? Excellent knowledge and experience in Oracle Database, JDBC, DB2, PL/SQL, MS SQL Server, My SQL Server, Mongo DB.  ? Experience in design and development of JUNIT test cases, load balancing and failovers with cache servers and application servers.  ? Experience working in various Software Development Methodologies like Waterfall, Agile SCRUM and TDD.  ? Expertise in integrated environment for java such as Eclipse, MyEclipse, RAD, NetBeans, ClearCase and VSS.  ? Experience in developing and implementing Web Services using REST, SOAP and WSDL.  ? Good at Documenting and User requirements and System Specifications.  ? Hands on UML compliant high level design with data flow diagram, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Activity Diagram and Use Cases and documenting for peer developer.  ? Excellent Leadership, Technical, Communication, Analytical and Problem Solving skills and ability to get on well with people including cross-cultural backgrounds.    Core Tech Skills  ? Java, AWS, Application servers, XML, JMS, MDB, JPA (Hibernate), servlets, applets, JSP, Test Driven Development, Wildfly, Docker, Apache Camel, Apache ActiveMQ, JSON, SOAP, REST services, Maven, Ant.    Additional tech skills  ? Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL, PostgreSQL, DB2, JBoss, WebSphere, Tomcat, Eclipse, Flex, RSA, NetBeans, Windows, Linux, Unix. Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Verizon Communications March 2016 to Present Accountabilities:  ? Worked on Java/J2EE framework APIs like Spring, iBatis and Hibernate.  ? Design, development and testing of web application and integration projects using technologies such as Core Java, J2EE, Multi-threading, Struts, JSP, JDBC, Spring Framework, Hibernate, Java Beans, Web Services (REST/SOAP)  ? Developed applications using Java, J2EE Standards, Java Server Faces, EJB, JSP, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Oracle, MVC Architecture, Web Services, AJAX, RMI, UML, HTML, Java Beans, JavaScript and DHTML.  ? Developed hibernate DAO Accessor Classes using Spring Template, Worked with Hibernate for object relational mapping and connection management.  ? Review Requirement, develop technical design documents and create a prototype of the critical business application using JAVA/J2EE Initiated use of HttpUnit, Selenium IDE for testing.  ? Worked with J2EE and J2SE technologies including JSP, Java Web Start, and Weblogic.  ? Responsible for creating multiple deployment Methodologies using different DevOps tools Chef, Puppet and out of box features of vRealize.  ? Configured bamboo automating the builds into gradle archiva repository. Implemented the business logic using various Design patterns.  ? Expert in debugging an application using the debugging tools provided by Flash builder, Visual Studio.NET IDE.  ? Experience in site building on Coldfusion running on Azure server with SQL Server database.  ? Working on finalizing the structure and content of the SAML assertion and create a sample SAMLxml file to illustrate.  ? Developed and performed unit testing scripts with JUnit API in TDD environments.  ? Collaborated with the team using GIT, GitHub, SourceTree version control platform.  ? Experience in MVP Design Pattern, OOP, Singleton, Factory, Strategy, Façade, Template, IoC and Dependency Injection design Patterns.  ? Implement new requirements and fix existing bugs on the system, built in ERLANG, CouchDB, CouchDB modules and PostgreSQL (backend) and JavaScript and BackboneJS (frontend)  ? Created Docker images using spotify Maven Plugin, for deployment of microservices.  ? Assisted in several Load tests and gave suggestions at OS level tuning, also configured Weblogic and JBOSS Application servers to produce the best results.  ? Involved in CI/CD process using GIT, Nexus, Jenkins job creation, Maven build Create Docker image and deployment in AWS environment.  ? Design and develop new features in website using Java/J2EE under Santana Framework and enhance existing features. Refactoring code, redesign current design.  ? Created Lambda function for making the serverless compute to the Image microservice in the photopass application.  ? Created HBase tables to load structured/semi-structured/unstructured data from UNIX, NoSQL & other portfolios.  ? Used Java/J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate and Data Transfer Object (DTO) in the project which facilitates clean distribution of roles and responsibilities across various layers of processing.  ? Prepare Java/J2EE development structure for Rational Application Developer.  ? Built web-based maintenance application to maintain complex specification documents. Used JQuery, Wicket, and iBatis against a MySQL database.  ? Design, develop and test of SOA services using SOA / Web Service / Oracle Fusion Middleware.  ? Created Oracle database tables, stored procedures, sequences, triggers, views  ? Create new PL/SQL stored procedures for new Oracle Forms and Reports development  ? Developed front end using Angular.js, React.JS, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js, JavaScript, where back end is java with REST webservice.  ? Created a Rich Single Page Application using HTML, CSS, JSP, JSON, Angularjs, React.js, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js.  ? Developed application using Angular.JS and Node.JS connecting to Oracle on the backend.  ? Defined and Created SOA software and hardware infrastructure, including Application Servers, Services Bus, Server Domains etc.  ? Used Eclipse IDE for designing, coding and developing applications  ? Build use cases for each component of business workflow, create technical design documents with different UML diagrams like sequence diagrams and class diagrams using Rational Rose  ? Implementing IOC and Dependency Injection features in various aspects of Spring Framework (Core, Web, JDBC, MVC and DAO) . Also Developed hibernate mappings to tables using JPA annotations.  ? Backend development with LINUX, UNIX.  ? Performed Benchmarking and Load testing using Cassandra-stress tool.  ? Performed Unit Testing and developed Unit Test Classes using JUNIT.  ? Developed Web based Dynamic Form Builder using HTML, CSS, JavaScript Object-to-XML.  ? Used REST WebServices for creating rate summary and used WSDL and SOAP messages for getting insurance plans from different module and used XML parsers for data retrieval.  ? Consumed Restful Webservices where the transmission of data is in JSON format.  ? Experience in IAM requirement analysis, implementation of Access Gateways and SAML, Oauth, WSFed and OpenID based integrations using Ping Federate.  ? Designed and Developed REST WebServices to interact with various business sectors and used SOAP protocol for webservices communication  ? Configured JMS Server setup and DB Connection pool setup & deployed Returned items in Weblogic.  ? Extensively worked on Application servers like Weblogic and Apache Tomcat.  ? Worked on stored procedures, triggers, cursors, DB scheduler, PL/SQL, MySQL and SQL queries  ? Created Use Case, Object, Class, Sequence and Flow Chart Diagrams using Rational Rose Tool  ? Developed back-end stored procedures and triggers using Oracle PL/SQL, involved in database objects creation, performance tuning of stored procedures, and query plan.  ? Integrating Rich Faces and My Faces in configuring Rich Faces Filter and Servlet in the configuration file.  ? Agile/SCRUM was used as the project management methodology and JIRA & Confluence were the tools used to keep things in check    Background Skills: Java, AWS, SQL Server, Oracle, PostgreSQL, XML, JMS, MDB, JPA (Hibernate), servlets, applets, JSP, Test Driven Development, Wildfly, Docker, Apache Camel, Apache ActiveMQ, JSON, SOAP, REST services Sr. Java Developer Chase Bank September 2014 to February 2016 Accountabilities:  ? Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing MVC architecture Spring, Struts, Hibernate and Websphere Application Server connecting to an Oracle database.  ? Implemented Spring ORM wiring with Hibernate provided access to Oracle RDBMS  ? Create new interfaces using java, maven/ant, spring mvc / struts, or hibernate based on provided requirements XSD/DDF's  ? Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several Java/J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate, MVC, Session Façade, Factory Method, Service Locator, Singleton and Data Transfer Objects (DTO)  ? Developed and configured the Java beans using Struts MVC and Hibernate.  ? Development of Web (Intranet) database-driven and GIS Java/J2EE applications for Oracle databases.  ? Leading JavaScript Frameworks Team like Angular.js, backbone.js, bootstrap.js, Node.js.  ? Providing a responsive, AJAX-driven design using JavaScript libraries such as JavaScript, jQuery, backbone.js, Node.js AngularJS and Bootstrap.js - Using Subversion for version control.  ? Used Ember.js and Redis as backend for Django to retrieve data from CouchDB to display rich reports to users.  ? Implemented Cloud based Service Bus on WSO2 for engaging stakeholders in the initial SOA discussions.  ? Developed additional UI Components using JSF and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX (JQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience.  ? Developed HTML, CSS, Javascript and JSP pages for user interaction and data presentation.  ? Experienced in RESTful web service development, JSON, Maven (build automation tool), GIT (source code management system), STS (Eclipse-based development environment), Sonar (code quality analysis tool), JIRA, OAuth, Jenkins, uDeploy.  ? Developed various Web Services using WSDL, SOAP and Oracle JDeveloper  ? Wrote Java programs, performed builds, monitored DB2 data and ran SQL.  ? Designed and implemented four Agile Scrum teams for product development.  ? Deployed Gradle for build automation and used Groovy for declaring project configuration.  ? Built a RESTful API to save and retrieve geolocations using a remote server in Java using Spring, MongoDB, Apache CXF, and JAX-RS.  ? Developed a prototype Java Servlet that calls OpenEdge processes using JSONRPC.  ? Usage of version control repository SVN (Subversion by apache), JIRA/ QualityCenter for ticketing, Wiki for documentation, Jenkins for nightly build.  ? Developed user interface using JSP, JSTL and Custom Tag Libraries and AJAX to speed the application.  ? Experience in Core Java concepts such as OOP Concepts, Collections Framework, Exception Handling, I/O System, Multi-Threading, JDBC.  ? Lead, Designed and Developed SOA enterprise system using Oracle SOA Suite.  ? Used GitHub UI, Git bash to commit, changes to the repository for maintaining various versions of the agile process.  ? Experienced in using various AWS (Amazon Web Services) IaaS (Infrastructure as a Service), SaaS (Software as a Service) Components like EC2 for running applications on virtual machines, Lambda for serverless program functions.  ? Involved in CI/CD process using GIT, Nexus, Jenkins job creation, Maven build Create Docker image and deployment in AWS environment.  ? Created web services that manages the Azure Subscriptions, consumed by partners.  ? Configure authentication mechanisms including SAML-based single sign on (SSO) and LDAP.  ? Involved in an Enterprise Application to implement Microservices in order to separate the tasks and not to have dependency on other Parallel on-going tasks of same application.  ? Responsible for platform choices for big data, graph and NoSQL databases.  ? Developed and performed unit testing scripts with JUnit API and PowerMock API in TDD environments.  ? Experience in Visual Studio Version Control TFS and Push Notifications and SMS/Messaging.  ? Developed the base framework using Java, JSP, Struts, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Oracle and MS SQL Server.  ? Involved in user interface development using JSTL.  ? Developed SQL queries with PHP Doctrine and Propel to create, retrieve and update data and programming SQL sentences based on CRUD.  ? Technology leadership for the direction of the Cloud based application using Node.JS, PDFJS, Sencha, MongoDB and MS SQL Server integrating to a proprietary framework.  ? Creation of REST WebServices for the management of data using Apache CXF (JAX-RS)  ? Working for DevOps Platform team responsible for specialization areas related to Chef for Cloud Automation.  ? Developed automation test cases using Java and Junit on Eclipse application.  ? Extensively involved in the development of backend Logics or data access logic using Oracle DB & JDBC.  ? Create webservice component using REST, SOAP, WSDL, XML and XSLT to interact with the middleware  ? Created Maven build file to build the application and deployed on WebSphere Application Server.  ? EJB components are deployed on the WebLogic Integration with MQSeries using JMS.  ? Worked in RDBMS implementation using, SQL, PL/SQL, DB2, MySQL on Oracle database.  ? Worked with Oracle RDBMS for writing complex queries and PL/SQL, SQL for Stored Procedures, Triggers and Events, for generating some important responses needed by the application at times.  ? Involved in UML Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using Rational Rose  ? Developed interfaces and their implementation classes to communicate with the mid-tier (services) using JMS.  ? Performed J2EE application deployment using JBoss application server on Windows and Linux  ? Writing JUnit test/Integration test cases for asserting functional quality.  ? Designed & Developed Application flow UML diagrams of the application using Rational Rose  Background Skills: Java, AWS, MySQL, SQL Server, Oracle, PostgreSQL, XML, JMS, MDB, JPA (Hibernate), servlets, applets, JSP, Test Driven Development, Wildfly, Docker, Apache Camel, Apache ActiveMQ, JSON, SOAP, REST services, Maven, Ant, SVN, GitHub, Hudson Sr. Java Developer Humana Group September 2012 to August 2014 Accountabilities:  ? Used JSF messages for handling the error messages for the applications  ? Deployed this application which uses J2EE architecture model and Struts Framework first on Weblogic and helped in migrating to JBoss Application server.  ? Worked in Java, J2EE, XSL, XML, Oracle, DB2, Struts, spring, Hibernate, REST Web services, Model driven architecture and software configuration management tools.  ? Developed Application based on J2EE using Hibernate, Spring, JSF frameworks and SOAP/REST web services, Web Sphere Integration Developer (WID) Tool to develop WPS components.  ? Development of Enterprise Java Beans (EJB), MVC, Spring with Hibernate, AJAX for search panel, Java Swing & AWT for desktop app.  ? Used JSF messages for handling the error messages for the applications  ? Preparation of the framework classes for communication between portal to EJB and Hibernate  ? Used Spring for cross cutting concerns and IOC for dependency injection.  ? Design and program enterprise java beans for the development of large enterprise applications.  ? Worked on the MySQL migration project to make the system completely independent of the database being used. Used Spring IBatis to implement this.  ? Prepared statements are used for communication with MySql database.  ? Integrated Hibernate for data persistence by developing persistent classes through java & J2EE.  ? Involved in developing custom taglibs, JSP, EJB's, JQuery, Portlets and DB2 - stored procedures.  ? Used TOAD for all database query testing and optimizations.  ? Implemented Java and J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate and Data Transfer Object (DTO), Data Access Object and Service Locator.  ? Developed Dash-Board to monitor and report Cache Coherence Servers.  ? Worked on multiple projects based on Oracle ADF framework and Oracle WebCenter  ? Implemented CSS, DOM Api, DOJO and Ajax to create a dynamic and interactive experience.  ? Used J2EE based App Servers like Jboss WebSphere Weblogic and Web servers like Apache Tomcat  ? Integrate the Oracle BPM with the Spring Framework in the enterprise layer.  ? Used Ant for developing build scripts and deploying the application onto WebLogic.  ? Used J2EE & Java design patterns Service Locator, Object Factory and Singleton patterns extensively.  ? Created packages for Transforming and Loading of Data from Sybase, Oracle to MS SQL Server by using SQL Server Integration Services  ? Involved in designing the user interfaces using JSF, Marionette.js, Swing/AWT, JSON, Java Script and HTML, Bootstrap and Backbone.js, Flex, ASP and Extjs.  ? Used JDBC, JavaScript, Servlet, and JDBC and used SQL Server for backend. Interaction with business users to gather requirements.  ? Developed web presentation layer using jQuery, JavaScript, HTML and CSS according to internal standards and guidelines.  ? Design and development of components, such as Class, and Sequence diagram in UML.  ? Design of the process flow in Oracle BPM and jBPM to evaluate the difference between the behavior of different BPM tools  ? Used Netbeans for development and WebLogic Application Server for deploying the web application.  ? Rewrote code for enabling download as .pdf with new iText library for Java.  ? Worked with Rational ClearCase to provide sophisticated version control, workspace management and parallel development support. Build and maintained a Selenium Regression test suite.  ? Involved in Requirement analysis, design and Implementation applying the Water fall model.  ? Wrote Servlets programming and JSP scripting for the communication between web browser and server.  ? Using JIRA to manage the issues/project work flow  ? Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML, file that contains declarations and business classes are wired-up to the frontend managed beans using Spring IOC pattern.  ? Working Closely with EMC Documentum to implement Engineering Design Storage Repository and Project Document Management.  ? Wrote complex sql statements to retrieve data from the DB2 database.  ? Used JBoss application server to deploy application into Production environment.  ? Configuring and analyzing JCL to execute mainframe batch.  ? Performed J2EE application deployment using JBoss application server on Windows and Linux.  ? Use IBM MQ Series to send information from mainframe to web and back to mainframe  ? Build code using IDE IntelliJ and deploy it using Apache Tomcat.  ? Created directory structure flow using UNIX to receive and send data to internal and external systems.  ? Developed code usinf C, C++ for secure transaction.    Background Skills: Java, J2EE, Spring, Struts, JSF, JSP, EJB, DOJO, JQuery, Sencha ExtJS, JavaScript, GWT, MySQL, TOAD, SQL, DB2, coherence, APACHE AXIS2, Tomcat, WSDL, JBoss, Netbeans, Jasper report, Unix, Mercurial, ClearCase, Selenium, Water Fall Model, Jira, Swing, Cognos, iLog, JRules, Oracle ADF, Oracle BPM, Web 2.0, Linux, IBM MQ Series, Ruby, Z, ASP, C, C++, Mainframe, COBOL, PL/I, JCL, SQL, SAS VB Java Developer Pfizer - New York, NY March 2010 to August 2012 Accountabilities:  ? Integrated Hibernate ORM with Spring-Hibernate framework to facilitate DML and DQL queries and represent object-database mapping.  ? Involved in transforming the Use Cases into Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and State diagrams.  ? Involved in development of Web Services, creation of WSDL and schemas.  ? Extensively participated on working with Spring framework. Involved in writing JSP and Servlets.  ? Involved in development of Web Services, were developed to receive client requests.  ? Implemented Spring JDBC template, Spring Exception Strategy and AOP.  ? Involved in setting up WebSphere Application server and using Ant tool to build the application and deploy the application in WebSphere Application server.  ? Worked with the creation of Store Procedures. Involved in writing SQL queries, Stored Procedures to accomplish complex functionalities.  ? Part of team creating quality working J2EE code to design, schedule, and cost to implement use cases.  ? Developed Reusable classes in the middleware using Hibernate.  ? Involved in writing lots of JSP for maintains and enhancements of the application. Worked on Front End using Servlets and also backend using EJB and Hibernate.  ? Worked on Presentation Layer using Struts Tiles, JSPs and Servlets.  ? Created quality working J2EE code to design, schedule, and cost to implement use cases.  ? Setting of DB2 build settings in RAD application development server.  ? Involved in writing the database integration code using Hibernate.  ? Creation of managed server and JDBC connections.  ? Worked on the application using Rational Application Developer. Designed & Developed Application flow UML diagrams of the application using Rational Rose.    Background Skills: J2EE, Java, JSP, Servlet, JDBC, JavaScript, Struts, Hibernate, JUnit, HTML, JavaScript, WebSphere Application Server, WSAD, Oracle, TOAD, Spring, WSDL, Axis, tcpmon, Ant, WinCVS, Windows'XP, Aix-Unix. Software Developer Sprint Corporation - Overland Park, KS April 2008 to February 2010 Accountabilities:  ? Worked with Spring Batch Used Spring ORM module to integrate with Hibernate.  ? Developed the modules of Purchase Request, Purchase Order, Item Master modules.  ? Involved in the Enhancement of Summarization module.  ? Developed the web pages using JSP, CSS and HTML  ? Developed the RTM interface module to map the requirements to the test-case and Test design modules  ? Generic Tree Navigation control)  ? Used several J2EE Design Patterns (Session Façade, Aggregate Entity) for the Middle Tier development.  ? Developed EJBS (Session and Message-Driven Beans) in (RAD) for handling business processing, database access and asynchronous messaging.  ? Made extensive use of Java Naming and Directory Interface (JNDI) for looking up enterprise beans.  ? Developed Message-Driven beans in collaboration with Java Messaging Service (JMS)  ? Involved in writing JSP/HTML/JavaScript and Servlets to generate dynamic web pages and web content.  ? Wrote various stored procedures in PL/SQL and JDBC routines to update tables.  ? Wrote various SQL queries for data retrieval using JDBC.  ? Involved in building and parsing XML documents using SAX parser.  ? Exposed business logic as a web service and developed WSDL files for describing these web services.  ? Extensively used SOAP formatted messages for communication between web services.  ? Developed the application on IBM WebSphere Application Server.  ? Developed the plug-in interfaces for the TMS features (TEE, Requirements, Version Control)  ? Developed Form Beans, which are used to store data when the user submits the HTML form  ? Coded various Java beans to implement the business logic  ? Development of GUI using AWT  ? Involved in creating the tables using SQL and connectivity is done by JDBC  ? Involved in generating the reports regarding the marks they secured in the online test once they press the submit button in the test using HTML and JSP.  ? Apache Tomcat is used as an Application Server to Deploy the Application.    Background Skills: J2ee, Java, Jsp, Servlet, Jdbc, Struts, Junit, Log4j, Javascript, Dhtml, Websphere Application Server, Axis, Wsad, Xml, Xslt, Ant, Sql, Sql Query Analyzer, Jprobe, Cvs, Opprox Reports, Windows'xp, Unix-Ibm Aix.