Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - T-Mobile, NJ Bloomfield, NJ • 9+ years of experience in software development for J2EE web-based applications  • Proven track record of coding, integrating complex technical processes within international, high-profile and tight deadline-oriented environments.  • Extensive experience in Java J2EE technologies using Core Java, Java collection, JDBC, Threads, Spring Framework, Struts Framework, Hibernate, Servlets, DHTML, CSS, JMS, JSTL, Display Tag (Custom Tag), Ajax, Java Script.  • Extensive experience of working on all tiers of J2EE n-tier Architecture.  • Proficient in designing applications using Java and J2EE Design Patterns such as Singleton, Factory, Facade, Observer, Command Patterns, Value/Data Transfer etc.  • Good web page design skills using HTML, CSS, Java Script, AJAX, and XML.  • Extensive Knowledge in Java Persistence API.  • Exposure to Software Engineering methodology like Agile methodology, Waterfall methodology.  • Responsible for coding, implementation and unit testing of various J2EE related projects.  • Worked on EJB (stateless Session, MDB, Entity Beans).  • Extensive experience in Tomcat Server, JBoss, Weblogic and WebSphere application servers  • Good Experience in implementing Web Services such as SOAP, WSDL, UDDI.  • Extensive experience in database designing using RDBMS Concepts in Oracle, MS SQL.  • Hands-on experience in writing stored procedures, functions, views, triggers and joins.  • Involved in preparing use-case, functional, technical design of the project and test case document.  • Excellent ability to quickly master the technologies and concept.  • Ability to lead a team effectively  • Good verbal and written communication skills. Ability to deal with people diplomatically. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java Developer T-Mobile, NJ April 2014 to Present Description: Worked on a Telecom Project for T-Mobile network, The purpose of the project is to develop software for T-Mobile Femto device(macro cell) to boost the network to the Users, Also to provide a best network services in remote locations and to provide all the emergency services and value added services.    Roles &Responsibilities:    • Involved in the review and analysis of the Functional Specifications, and Requirements Clarification Defects etc.  • Involved in interacting with business users and creating mock-up for user interface screens and functional design documents from requirements.  • Involved in the development of the User Interfaces (web pages) using HTML, JSP, and JavaScript.  • Used Spring Batch and Hibernate for creating batch jobs to read multiple formats of data and write it into flat file.  • Implemented Spring MVC framework to handle the request from the web pages and Hibernate to handle the Oracle database.  • Involved in development of major enhancements.  • Involved in writing web services to connect to other applications.  • Involved in the design of the Presentation Tier, Services Layer etc. for all the initiatives.  • Knowledge of the WebLogic Application Architecture.  • Involved in the development of the presentation tier using Spring framework.  • Enabled web security and protect different URL patterns within the application.  • Prepared the Technical Design Document for both Presentation Tier, as well as Middle Layer.  • Deployed the application on Apache Tomcat Application server.  • Participated in the test case reviews, and manual testing of the enhancement.  • Involved in fixing the defects during integration testing.  • Participated in the code reviews for various initiatives, Performed Static Code Analysis to follow the Best Practices for Performance and Security.    Environment: Java 7, HTML, JSP, Java Script, CSS, Spring MVC, Spring Batch, Hibernate, JAX-WS, Eclipse, Apache Tomcat, JDK 1.7, Maven, Oracle 11g, SOAP UI, JIRA defect tracking tool, Unix -Shell Scripting, XML, SOAP web services, REST web services and Web logic 10.x. Sr. Java Developer Wells Fargo - West Des Moines, IA March 2013 to April 2014 Description: Worked on developing a Tax Search System application to keep track of delinquent property tax searches of all entities. The goal of this application is to automate the processes of working with Tax Authorities (payees) to gather information from them, request delinquent tax files, receiving and loading of the files, and keep tracking of current and delinquent property tax searches for multiple entities.    Roles &Responsibilities:    • Involved in the review and analysis of the Functional Specifications, and Requirements Clarification Defects etc.  • Involved in interacting with business users and creating mock-up for user interface screens and functional design documents from requirements.  • Involved in designing user interface mock-up screens using IRISE tool.  • Involved in the development of the User Interfaces (web pages) using HTML, JSP, YUI, CSS and AJAX.  • Used Spring Batch and Hibernate for creating batch jobs to read multiple formats of data and write it into flat file.  • Involved in the presentation tier design as well as services layer, and prepared the class diagrams, sequence diagrams.  • Implemented Spring MVC framework to handle the request from the web pages and Hibernate to handle the Oracle database.  • Involved in development of major enhancements.  • Knowledge of the WebSphere Application Architecture.  • Involved in writing web services to connect to other applications.  • Involved in the design of the Presentation Tier, Services Layer etc. for all the initiatives.  • Prepared the Technical Design Document for both Presentation Tier, as well as Middle Layer.  • Involved in the development of the presentation tier using Spring framework.  • Enabled web security and protect different URL patterns within the application.  • Used Spring Tag Libraries, JSTL, and other in-house tag libraries.  • Deployed the application on Apache Tomcat Application server.  • Participated in the test case reviews, and manual testing of the enhancement.  • Involved in fixing the defects during integration testing.  • Participated in the code reviews for various initiatives, Performed Static Code Analysis to follow the Best Practices for Performance and Security.  Environment: Java 6, HTML, JSP, Java Script, AJAX, CSS, Spring MVC , Spring-web Services, Spring Batch, Hibernate, JAX-WS, Eclipse, WebSphere, Apache Tomcat, JDK 1.6, Maven, Oracle 11g. Sr. Java Developer Century Bank - Boston, MA February 2012 to March 2013 Description: Century Bank offer services like banking, investment and several types of loans. The project ('EBanking') was developed with the aim of providing customers with various online features like creating new accounts, managing existing accounts, and personal or Home loan applications.  Roles &Responsibilities:    • Involved in the review and analysis of the Functional Specifications, and Requirements Clarification Defects etc.  • Involved in the analysis and design of the initiatives using Rapid Application Development.  • Involved in the development of the User Interfaces using HTML, JSP, JSF, CSS and AJAX.  • Implemented JavaScript and Swing based functionality in front end designing and rich user interface.  • Involved in the presentation tier design as well as services layer, and prepared the class diagrams, sequence diagrams.  • Worked with Action Script and Flex  • Involved in development of major enhancements.  • Written JSP's, Servlets and deployed them on WebSphere Application Server.  • Knowledge of the WebSphere Application Architecture.  • Involved in writing web services to connect to other applications.  • Involved in the design of the Presentation Tier, Services Layer etc for all the initiatives.  • Prepared the Technical Design Document for both Presentation Tier, as well as Middle Layer.  • Involved in the development of the presentation tier using Spring framework.  • Enabled web security and protect different URL patterns within the application.  • Used Spring Tag Libraries, JSTL, and other in-house tag libraries.  • Deployed the application on JBoss Application server  • Participated in the test case reviews, and manual testing of the enhancements during Release 1.4, 1.5, 1.6.  • Used perforce for defect tracking as well as activity tracking.  • Involved in fixing the defects during integration testing.  • Involved in writing stored procedures  • Participated in the code reviews for various initiatives, Performed Static Code Analysis to follow the Best Practices for Performance and Security.  Environment: Java 6, HTML, JSP, Swing, Java Script, AJAX, CSS, Spring MVC , Spring-web Services, Spring AOP, Servlets, Hibernate, JAX-WS, Eclipse, WebSphere, JBoss, JDK 1.6, Maven, Oracle 11g. Java/J2EE Developer Comerica - Houston, TX August 2010 to February 2012 Description: This project was developed to provide financial intelligent information to its customers in order for them to make the right decision for their investment. The web based business application supports day-to-day business operations of its customers  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the design and development of the entire application.  • Created UML diagrams (use case, class, sequence, and collaboration) based on the business requirements  • Involved in designing and developing dynamic web pages using HTML and JSP with Struts tag libraries  • Designed JSP layout using Struts Tiles Framework  • Used JavaScript for client-side validation and Struts Validator Framework for form validations  • Implemented PL/SQL queries and used Oracle stored procedures, and built-in functions to retrieve and update data from the databases  • Used Hibernate Framework for object relational mapping and persistence.  • Interfaced with the Oracle back-end using Hibernate Framework and XML Config files.  • Used Eclipse for the development environment  • Wrote JUnit test cases to test the functionality of each method in the DAO layer.  • Used CVS for version control.  • Configured and deployed the web application using Web Logic Application Server  • Used Rational Clear Quest for tracking errors and bugs in the project source code  • Prepared technical reports and documentation manuals for efficient program development    Environment: J2EE, JSP, Struts1.0, EJB, HTML, XML, CVS, ANT, Log4j, SQLServer7.0, Web Logic 7.x, Hibernate, JBuilder 6.x, JUnit. JAVA Developer CNA - Chicago, IL November 2009 to July 2010 Description: CNA is an insurance organization offering broad range of insurance products and insurance-related services. This project provides insurance to small businesses in an unpredictable business environment. The project offers online insurance quote forms to the costumer. This helps register customers to buy insurance online. It allows customers to check policy information, direct bill status, and also to report a claim online.    Roles &Responsibilities:    • Created user-friendly GUI interfaces and Web pages using HTML and DHTML embedded in JSP.  • JavaScript was used for the client side validations.  • Written JSP's, Servlets and deployed them on Websphere Application Server.  • Developed using JQuery for CSS Manipulation, Events, Effects, Animation. and Ajax interaction for Rapid Web Development.  • Used the JNDI for Naming and directory services.  • Involved in debugging the application.  • Designed and developed front end screens for new reports using Swing components.  • Designed and developed Model Components - Action Form Bean, Controller Components - Action Classes, Action Mapping.  • Used Hibernate framework for backend development and Spring dependency injection for middle layer development.  • Managed Object Persistence, Data retrieval using Hibernate, Spring Framework with Oracle 10g as backend.  • Implemented Webservices using SOAP protocol over HTTP.  • Used Websphere application server to deliver a new class of enterprise applications that enhance business interactions and transactions between a company and its key constituencies.  • Used Websphere application server to deliver high performance and scalability.  • JPA is used to manage relational data in application.  • Written database objects like Triggers, Stored Procedures in SQL.  • Interacted with the users and documented the System.  • Consumed and created Webservices using CXF (JAX-WS)  • Tested Webservices using SOA PUI.  • Created interactive web applications for the client side using SOA.  Environment: JDK 1.4, J2EE, JSP 2.0, JDBC 4.0, HTML, EJB 3.1, Servlets, WebSphere Application Server 6.0, WSAD 5.0, UML, Hibernate 3.1, JDBC, Spring 2.0, CVS, XML, Oracle 10g, CXF (JAX-WS), XML Spy, AJAX Java Developer Optima Health - Milwaukee, WI December 2008 to October 2009 Description: Developed web application for brokers of small market health insurance for group or individual customers. Basic functionality was to get customer physical address, marital status, family health and their individual health information. After all the required information provided by customers application would figure out the best available health plan in small market and output to customers for their selection.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Developing solutions to requirements, enhancements and defects.  • Involved in requirements Design, Development, and System Testing.  • Developing UI screens using JSP, Servlets.  • Developed J2EE Backing Beans, Action Classes, and Action Mapping and Application facades and hibernate classes to retrieve and submit using the JSF Framework.  • Implemented the JSF package with MVC framework.  • Created multiple view access for access control between administrators and Adjusters.  • Developed and utilized J2EE Services SERVLETS, JSP components.  • Implemented Action class to encapsulate the business logic.  • Used Struts framework for developing applications.  • Used various design patterns like Singleton, Facade, Command, Factory, DAO.  • Used Object Oriented Application Design (OOAD) for deriving objects and classes.  • Data-retrieval from back-end database using Data Source from JDBC Drivers.  • Stored Procedures, database triggers were used at all levels.  • Communicating across the team about the processes, goals, guidelines and delivery of items.  • Developed the Java Code using Eclipse as IDE.  • Utilize Struts (MVC2) framework and developed JSP pages, Action Servlets and XML based action-mapping files for web tier.  • Configuration of Tomcat 4.1 for the application on Win NT server  • Used Java script for validation of page data in the JSP pages.  • Responsible for code version management and unit test plans.  Environment: Eclipse, Tomcat server 4.1, J2EE ( Java 1.4, JSP, SERVLETS), DB2, Struts Framework, XML, JDBC, JNDI, Windows XP, JavaScript, UML, HTML. Programmer Analyst Travel Software Enterprises December 2007 to November 2008 Description: Project is a web-Tier based application used for User to track information about the travels. The application was targeted for mid-sized travel agents that help them market their products, allow their customers to buy travel packages online and process new orders. The front end allows the user to look up their travel information and order details.  Roles & Responsibilities:  • Lead a team of 6 members with coordinating, mentoring and guiding through the various stages of project lifecycle  • Involved in extracting uses cases from Design Specifications and Functional specifications taking SRS into consideration.  • Implemented webpages using HTML  • Implemented JavaScript and Swing based functionality in front end designing and rich user interface.  • Developed web pages using JSPs and JSTL to help end user make online submission of rebates. Also used XMLBeans for data mapping of XML into Java Objects.  • Used JavaScript validation depending on requirements.  • Implemented Tiles in Struts Framework inorder to avoid code redundancy for developing userscreens that contain same Headers and Footers  • Deployed the entire application on Apache Tomcat Server.  • Writing stored procedures and Triggers in order to extract data efficiently from the database and optimization of model layer.  Environment: Java, Multi-threading, Servlets, JSP, Struts, Eclipse, JDBC, SQL Server 2000, JavaScript, HTML, Swings, JavaBeans, UML, Tomcat, XML, MVC. Education Bachelor in Computer Science Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Skills HTML (9 years), JAVA (9 years), JSP (9 years), ECLIPSE (9 years), JAVASCRIPT (8 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Programming Languages Java 1.4,1.5,1.6,1.7, SQL  J2EE Technologies Servlets 2.2, 2.3, 2.4, JSP 1.1, 1.2, 2.0, JDBC 2.0, 3.0, JNDI  Frameworks Jakarta Struts 1.2, 1.3, Spring 1.2, 1.3, 2.0, 3.0, Spring MVC, Spring Batch, Hibernate 2.0, 3.0, JSF1.2, 2.0, Tiles, Validator  Web Technologies HTML, DHTML, JavaScript 3.03, AJAX, J Query, CSS, Java Beans  GUI Swing, AWT  XML Technologies XML 1.0, XSL 2.0, HTML, DHTML, XSL 1.0, JNDI 1.1, SOAP 1.2, AXIS 2  Application Servers IBM WebSphere 6.1, BEA WebLogic 8.1, 10 , Jboss 4.x  Web Servers Apache Tomcat 5.x, 6.x, 7.x  EAI Tools Apache Axis 1.4, 2.0  Web Service SOAP, JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, WSDL, JAX-R, REST  Databases Oracle 8i, 9i, 10g,11g, DB2, SQL Server 2000, 2005, MySQL, PL/SQL.  Messaging Systems JMS  IDE Tools  IBM WebSphere Studio Application Developer (WSAD), Eclipse 2.0, 3.0, 3.1, 4.0, My Eclipse, Microsoft Visual Studio, Dream Weaver 8.0    Design Pattern MVC, Singleton, Factory, Facade, Builder, Observer, Command pattern, DAO Factory, Business Delegate  Operating Systems Windows 98, NT, 2000, XP, Vista, 7  Tools Ant, Maven, JUnit, Log4j, XML Spy  Database Tools MySQL Query Browser  Design Methodologies UML, Rational Rose, RUP, Agile, Waterfall  Protocols SOAP, HTTP, HTTPS, FTP