Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - National Institute of Healthcare Rockville, MD • Competent Full Stack Java Developer with 8 Years of experience in a highly dynamic and challenging environment. Strong understanding of design patterns, frameworks, APIs, project implementation methodologies. Operates with a strong sense of urgency and thrives in a fast-paced environment. Possess excellent oral and written communication skills and interpersonal skills.  • Experience in developing Multi-tier enterprise applications and web applications using various J2EE technologies including JDBC, JNDI, JMS and open source Frameworks in Struts, Spring, Hibernate ORM, iBatis/MyBatis, GUI plug-ins like Tiles Framework, validation plug-in like Validator Framework.  • Experienced in developing XML documents with XSDs /DTDs using DOM, SAX, JAX-B parsers.  • Expertise in implementing various well-known Object-Oriented/J2EE Design Patterns Singleton, prototype, Factory, Abstract Factory, DAO, MVC, Command, Decorator, Front Controller.  • Strong skills with an understanding and development experience in Web Services, XML, SOAP, UDDI, J2EE and WS-Security.  • Experience in writing and executing unit test cases using JUnit Testing Framework.  • Strong knowledge in creating Unified Modeling Language (UML) diagrams such as Use Case Diagrams, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Deployment Diagrams using Rational Rose, Microsoft Visio.  • Proficient in Web development using HTML, CSS, AJAX, J-Query, EXT-JS, JSON, JavaScript, Backbone.js and Bootstrap  • Expertise in using Apache-ANT and writing build scripts (build.xml).  • Expertise in using Apache-Maven for building applications for its dependency, jars and repository manage met.  • Experience in implementing Web Services based on Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using SOAP, Restful Web Services, JAX-WS, UDDI, WSDL, WADL.  • Extensive experience in working on IDEs like Eclipse, Net Beans, WSAD, RAD.  • Expertise in configuring Oracle Transportation Management as per the client requirement.  • Good exposure with Application servers middleware technologies like, Web Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, JBoss and Apache Tomcat  • Expertise in logging using Log4j.  • Experience in writing code using corticon rules engine.  • Experience in working with various databases like Oracle, PostgreSQL, MS SQL Server and strong knowledge in SQL, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers and Cursors.  • Experience working with Performance Tuning engineers in analyzing the issues that are hindering the performance of the application.  • Flexible, dynamic and self-motivated with a flair of achieving success and attention to detail, timeline sensitive and goal oriented.  • Ability to work with business functions to understand business requirements and develop technical specifications  • Excellent communication, Team work, inter-personnel and presentation skills, fast learner and organized self-starter. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer National Institute of Healthcare - Rockville, MD April 2016 to Present NITAAC is a federal Executive Agent authorized by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to administer three Government-Wide Acquisition Contracts (GWACs) for information technology procurement. CIO-SP3, CIO-SP3 Small Business and CIO-CS can be used by any federal civilian or DOD agency to acquire information technology products, services and solutions.  EGOS is a unique and easy to use system for developing, competing and managing requirements under the CIO-SP3, CIO-SP3SB and CIO-CS GWACs. The system handles hundreds of Request for Proposals (RFPs) and thousands of Request for Quotes (RFQs). NITAAC has expanded its support including its new full-service Assisted Acquisition program, and is one of three OMB mandatory sources for laptop and desktop buys through our Government-wide Strategic Solutions (GSS) program.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed end to end functionalities of the RFQ response, TRP Submission process, displaying quotes, and other major functionalities of the application.  • Was responsible for the design of the CIO-CS integration into the eGOS application.  • Meeting with the client to understand the requirements to develop the CIO-CS integration into eGOS application.  • Have developed functionality to process and store millions of IT products data into the system. Implemented functionality to validate the products before inserting them into the database.  • Implemented functionality for diverting the application to custom page when tomcat is unavailable and when the page not found.  • Responsible for maintaining, fixing defects adding new functionalities to the eGOS web application.  • Designed MVC architecture and developed user interface components using DHTML, HTML, Servlets, javascript, ajax, Angular.js, HTML.  • Involved in developing, deploying e-GOS web application using java, angular.js, spring, Hibernate, JPA, Junit, MS SQL.  • Implemented design patterns and Server side development - Factory and Service Locater patterns, and the business logic using Spring DI Service components.  • Developed Web service modules based on SOA architecture using SOAP.  • Responsible for design, develop, specifying object/relational-mapping and testing the data layer components using Hibernate.  • Integrated Spring AOP, spring (Dependency Injection) among different layers of an application). Configured and accessed Hibernate with Spring IOC.  • Implemented the business layer by using Hibernate with Spring DAO and developed mapping files and POJO java classes using ORM tool.  • Wrote various Hibernate Queries using Hibernate Query Language (HQL) and hibernate criterion queries to execute queries against database.  • Developed complex service components for Data Access Layer, DAO classes to interact with backend using Java and Hibernate Framework.  • Designed and developed email notification functionality using apache commons mail and velocity templates.  • Implemented Java and J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate and Data Transfer Object (DTO), Data Access Object and Service Locator.  • Developed code to send automatic emails to customers and contractors using spring, velocity framework and Microsoft schedulers.  • Created batch files to run the schedulers on UAT and production using Microsoft batch schedulers.  • Implemented application specific exception handling & logging frame work using Log4j.  • Extensively worked in SDLC methodologies such as Agile process.  • Installed, configured SonarQube and continuously integrated the issues.  Environment: Java 1.8, J2ee, Servlet, JQuery, JSON, CSS, Angular.js, JavaScript, PL/SQL, MYSQL 5.6/5.7, Spring Batch 2.1.8, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring Integration, Spring injection & annotations, Hibernate, XML, XSD, ANT, Unix, Apache Tomcat, SOA, Restful Web Services, velocity framework, Microsoft batch schedulers, MyEclipse Luna Release (4.4.0), JIRA, Sonar, Apache Tomcat, Jenkins, Maven, JUNIT, Log4J, SonarQube, Subversion. Java/J2EE Developer IEDSS - Indianapolis, IN April 2014 to March 2016 The state of Indiana is implementing Health Care web application. This application is required to do initial verification of the applicant and his/her family, lawful presence verification, income verification and other eligibility verification. On Eligibility, the applicant is issued CASH/EBT/Medical Support. Business functions that allow the user to enter application information and intake information into the system, depends on the action selected in initiation information page (Intake, Disaster Snap, Add person, Continue previously selected action etc..) it will take the worker to the desired module including the following:  • Appointment Scheduling: Allows workers to set up schedules and create and maintain appointments.  • Application Registration: Allows workers to register complete applications into the system.  • Data collection: Allows workers to record client information in the intake and/or interview process.  • Individual Details.  • Household Information.  • Non-Financial Information.  • Income Information.  • Expense Information.  • Resource Information.  • Other (Sub Modules) - Non-Custodial parent, Compliance, Wrap up.  • Case Changes: Allows workers to make case changes whenever there is any update to a case.  • Disaster SNAP: Allows workers to enter the Disaster SNAP type and details.  • Reception Logs: Allows for logging of information when a client checks in to an office.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis, Design, Coding and Development of IEDSS.  • Design and implements technical solution using java framework like FAST4J, Next Gen.  • Implemented design patterns like Singleton, Abstract factory, factory, Service Locator, Delegator, and DAO's.  • Enabled better quality control of Java source code by implementing sonar to report code quality and test coverage and used SONAR tool for code analysis and correction.  • Involved in developing the web based GUI using java, JSP, JavaScript, CSS and HTML.  • Used core java like multithreading, exceptional handling to implement few modules.  • Developed and configured the Java beans using Spring IOC, Spring integration and Hibernate framework.  • Developing Hibernate Configuration files and Responsible for coding of DAO classes using Spring with hibernate.  • Developed reusable and interoperable Web service modules based on SOA architecture using SOAP and RESTFUL.  • Developed use case diagrams, class diagrams, database tables, and provided mapping between relational database tables and object oriented java objects using Hibernate.  • Involved in designing and implementation of MVC design pattern using Struts framework for Web-tier.  • Created POC for Spring Batch for running batch jobs. Documented how Spring Batch is useful for the current project.  • Extensively involved in the development of the Data Collection module, which involved multi-threading and GUI for this product, which was developed in Swing.  • Set up project environment on servers for both development and maintenance, which is major part to develop a web application.  • Developed business logic of the application to determine the benefits issuance to the users using servlets, struts and JSP.  • Produced and consumed the web services data in the form of JSON, XML.  • Implemented Logging framework using Log4J.  • Performance monitoring, tuning and troubleshooting middleware technologies like WebSphere, JBOSS, and Tomcat and Apache server instances.  • Involved in to code review and documentation review of technical artifacts.  • Create task into RTC and JIRA. Register new UI page into Next Gen framework.  • Implemented MVC design pattern Framework using Servlets, Business Objects.  • Configured struts xml file to provide mapping to servlet action handler  • Created the custom rules, configured the validation.xml and validator-rules.xml files.  • Used Enterprise Java Beans (EJBs) extensively in the application. Monitored the application using JMX monitoring.  • Worked with Ext JS API along with AJAX to display Support Related Information.  • Responsible for developing Enterprise Service Bus (ESB) architecture with Controllers, orchestration and web services.  • Experience in using MAVEN tool to compile, package and deploy the components to the Application Servers in different environments. Used SVN for version control.  • Worked on PostgreSQL and Improved query performance by following performance enhancement tips and database best practices.  • Experienced in Performance Tuning, Creating new Database and Backup.  • Successfully involved in test driven development model using JUnit and spring framework.  • Install, configure, and maintain My Eclipse 2010, WebSphere Application Server 8.5.  IMPACT: Allows workers to track status and a client's compliance with work programs for TANF/SNAP eligibility.  Environment: Java 1.8, Core java, J2ee, JUNIT, EJB3, SOA, Log4J, JSP, Servlet, JQuery, JSON, CSS, JavaScript, Java Beans, PostgreSQL 9.1, Spring Batch 2.1.8, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring Integration, Hibernate, XML, XSD, ANT, Unix, Apache Tomcat, Restful Web Services, WebSphere Application server 8.5, Corticon rules, MyEclipse Blue Edition 10, JIRA, Sonar, Maven, Subversion Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Hyundai Information Services North America - Irvine, CA February 2012 to March 2014 Project: My Uvo Car Care Web (CCW) / Kia Owners Portal  MyUvo CCW is a place for owners to check vehicle diagnostics, vehicle status, maintenance schedules, driving behavior, alerts and nearby dealers.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the technical design and created the detail design artifacts such as Use Case Diagrams, Class diagrams and Sequence diagrams.  • Developed application using Spring MVC framework.  • Implemented DAO for data access using Spring ORM and Used Spring IOC concepts to build the framework  • Used HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular.JS and JSTL and custom tag library with frameworks such as Ajax and JQuery, to build interactive and attractive user interfaces.  • Wrote a multi-threaded daemon in Java, which receives requests via Sockets (core java)  • Provided performance tuning recommendations and future memory requirements to Primary DBA team to make the changes in Database like table reorg, add enough spaces to database  • Worked on the implementation of Internet-facing document warehousing (transformation and access rights & permissions) using EJB3, MyBatis and Junit  • Created views using components of PrimeFaces in XHTML files and configured JSF framework.  • Implement advanced java API and core java for coding sophisticated business logic.  • Implemented client-side application to invoke SOAP Web Services.  • Implemented server side SOAP web services for external vendors to access our applications.  • Wrote SQL queries, Joins, PL/SQL sub programs like stored procedures, triggers and functions.  • Wrote JUnit test cases for testing the application modules  • Tested Web Services with SOAPUI.  • Used various enterprise design patterns in the development of code for extensibility and maintainability (Singleton and MVC design pattern).  • Experience in developing and deploying applications through web logic application server.  • Used ANT scripts to build the application and deployed on BEA WebLogic Application Server  Environment: Java 1.8, Spring, Core java - Multithreaded Programming Threads & exceptional handling, Angular.JS, JavaScript, JAX-B, Maven, Spring IOC, AOP, JSF with PrimeFaces 3.4, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Integration, MyBatis, MySQL 5.1, SOAP webservies, WSDL, XML, JSON, SOAPUI, HTML, CSS, Weblogic 12c, Ajax, JQuery, Flux, SonarQube, SVN, Eclipse (IDE). Java/J2EE Developer State of Michigan - Lansing, MI August 2011 to January 2012 Project: Michigan Business One Stop (MBOS)  Description: A one-stop shop for Michigan businesses that will allow entrepreneurs to go to a single Web site to start a business, pay taxes and fees, and apply for state permits and licenses. Program will save time and hassle for the state's 650,000 businesses by providing a single source for government information and services they need. This bundles hundreds of state processes together, now we want to do everything we can to help businesses open and operate Business.  Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in the various phases of SDLC of gathering business requirements, analysis, design, development, testing and support.  • Participated in team meetings, discussions with business analysts and created the scope and functional specifications to lay out the project phases.  • Worked with the DBA team to develop the initial draft for the data model from the requirements.  • Designed and developed a web site application using J2EE, XML, EJB, Servlets, JSP under the Apache Struts Framework, stateless Session EJBs, JMS, JDBC, JNDI, Connection Pools, IBM MQSeries and Sybase RDBMS.  • Created the Hibernate Mapping files using Hibernate to access the data from database.  • Used Core Java, Multithreading, and Collections like List, Array List, Hash Table, and Map.  • Implemented EJBs (Stateless and Stateful session beans).  • Developed web application using JSF Framework. Used JQuery and JSF validation framework for front end validations.  • Developed JDBC adopters and Assembly diagrams to communicate to the database.  • Involved developing re-usable web services using SOAP, XML, WSDL, XML Schemas, and JAXP.  • Developed applications using Net Beans IDE and deployed in web logic application server  • Implemented Spring MVC module for repayment module.  • Implemented Business Delegate, Facade, Service locator, Data Access Object and Value Object design patterns.  • Created war files & deployed on WebLogic using ANT deployment tool.  • Followed agile methodology (Scrum). Worked on Stories and involved into daily scrum meetings.  Environment: Java 1.5, J2EE, Struts 1.1, JSP 1.1, Servlets, EJB, Hibernate, Apache Struts Framework, JNDI, HTML, CSS, XML, XSLT, Coe java, Java Script, Java Server Faces, Bootstrap, Struts Validation Framework, Tiles, Ajax, Net Beans, Web services, SOAPUI, weblogic 11g, Log4j, ANT, JMS, MQ, SVN, JUnit, Oracle 10g. Java/J2EE Developer 3i-Infotech Ltd April 2008 to July 2011 Project: AMLock  AMLock is a state-of-the-art Anti Money Laundering and fraud detection application developed for banks and other financial institutions, which helps to achieve compliance with Anti Money Laundering regulations and thereby protect their integrity and reputation. AMLock enables Banks and Financial Institutions to process transactions either in real-time or on offline basis, and checks for the abnormal behavior of a customer. It enables banks to identify those transactions that involve them in illegal transactions and harm their stability and reputation from the viewpoint of money laundering.  Responsibilities:  • Actively participated in the complete software lifecycle of requirement gathering, design, development and implementation for various new business features.  • Brainstormed with the team and created the scope and functional specifications to lay out the project phases.  • Worked with the DBA team to develop the initial draft for the data model from the requirements.  • Developed application using JSP, HTML, CSS, Struts framework, client side data validations using JavaScript.  • Created Stored Procedures using Pl/SQL, functions, triggers in MSSQL server and Oracle to fetch required data.  • Analyze the pattern of transactions for abnormal behavior and generate reports.  • Designed, developed, and deployed EJB components (Session and Message Driven) beans.  • Written code for generating reports in PDF using iText.  • Escalate the consolidated report on daily/weekly basis to the respective authority to meet the statutory requirements.  • Used AJAX to load a part of the page dynamically and CSS for styling.  • Implemented localization and customized features for different client requirements.  • Developed prototype versions of the application for enhancement to new domain/sector.  • Deployed source code control processes across the CVS.  • Provided implementation support and defect management to ensure a successful go-live.  • Documentation of common problems prior to go-live, and while actively in a Production Support role.  • Provided mentoring for the team members to complete the tasks efficiently and in time.  Environment: Struts1.2, Java Servlets, Java Beans, EJB, Struts Framework, Java, JSP, AJAX, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, MS SQL Server 2000 and Oracle, CVS. Education Bachelors of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science JNTU Skills CSS (8 years), database. (8 years), HTML (8 years), J2EE (8 years), Java (8 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  • Java/J2EE Technologies: Servlets, JSP (EL, JSTL, Custom Tags), JSF, Apache Struts, Junit, Hibernate 3.x, Log4J Java Beans, EJB 2.0/3.0, JDBC, RMI, JMS, JNDI.  • Programming Languages: Java, SQL, PL/SQL, UML, C, C++  • Web Technologies: XML, XSL, XSLT, SAX, DOM, CSS, Java Script, HTML, Angular.js, AJAX, GUI, Web services (SOAP, WSDL, Axis), RESTful webservices, Apache POI, JBoss SEAM.  • Databases: IBM DB2, Oracle, MySQL, Database SQL command, PostgreSQL 9.0/9.1  • API's: Servlets, EJB, Java Naming and Directory Interface (JNDI)    • Operating Systems: Windows XP/ Vista, Unix, Linux (Fedora, Red Hat, Sun Solaris, Ubuntu)  • Application Servers: IBM WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Sun Java Enterprise System, JES  • Frameworks: velocity, Hibernate, Spring, GWT, JSF, J2EE, Apache Struts, Java Mail  • Tools: Autosys, JUnit, Ant, Log4j, Corticon Rules Engine, IBM Websphere MQ, SonarQube  • IDE s: Eclipse, NetBeans, Aqua Data Studio, Dreamweaver  • Web Technologies: HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSP, Servlets, jQuery, JSTL, OGNL  Source Control: SVN, IBM Rational ClearCase, Clearquest.    Methodologies: UML, OOAD, RUP, Waterfall model, Agile.