Sr Java/J2EE Developer Sr <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Java/J2EE Developer - FDA • 10 +years of IT experience in developing enterprise applications using J2EE technologies Expertise in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) that includes Requirements Gathering, Analysis, Design, Implementation, Maintenance and Testing using various methodologies.  • Experience in Distributed object systems and User Interface Design and Object-Oriented Internet / Intranet environment.  • Experience in developing web applications using Struts, JSF, Hibernate and Spring Frameworks.  • Experience in implementing SOA using J2EE Web Services (XML, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI)/Restful services  • Strong experience in OOAD, Middle ware (EJB, Application Server), Design Patterns (Session Facade, DAO Factory, Business Delegate, Value Object, Front Controller)  • Deployment expertise in configuring and deploying applications to various Application Servers - IBM WebSphere, Oracle Web Logic, jBoss, Tomcat  • Deployment expertise in configuring and deploying applications to various Docker images in AWS environment  • Experience in developing Microservice architecture using Spring Boot with Rest Services.  • Experience in implementing Cloud architecture Using Amazon S3, Amazon EC2, VPC  • Extensively applied Java 8 features like Lambdas, watch services and Streams    • Experience in implementing and configuring various Application Components in Oracle Fusion Middleware (OFMW).  • Experienced in using various Development Tools - JDeveloper, RAD, WSAD, Eclipse, TOAD, SCME, VSS and CVS.  • Experienced in upgrading Angular JS application to Angular7  • Experienced in externalizing the rules using JBOSS Drools  • Has multi-platform exposure in Red Hat Enterprise Linux, Sun Solaris 10.0, Windows 2000/XP  • Strong analytical skills with excellent interpersonal and communication skills.  • Committed to meeting milestones, quick learner and proactive. Work Experience Sr Java/J2EE Developer FDA - Rockville, MD February 2018 to Present E Depart, E Arrive applications are implemented Microservice architecture for Employee arrival and employee Depart in FDA. These applications Loads data based on Internal Users approval.  FOI application is an external application which provides the forms to request Information from FDA based on their prior application submitted to FDA.    As a Senior Java Developer -  • Involved in designing the system using UML use case diagram, class diagrams, sequence diagrams, component diagrams and activity diagrams.  • Implemented web components using JSF Prime faces  • Used Spring Framework for implementing the business components using the Dependency Injection.  • Implemented Microservices Using Angular7, Spring Boot, Restful services  • Created Multiple Docker Images and deployed Micro service on each image in AWS environment.  • Migrated all lower environments to AWS using VPC,EC2,S3  • Configured CI/CD pipelines using Jenkins, Sonar Qube, Kubernette clusters  • Used Hibernate Framework for database layer  • Used MVC-II architecture for implementing application components  • Implemented Web services using SOA architecture  • Deployed components on WebLogic server  • Implemented Restful services using Jersey  • Implemented SOAP based web services  • Created Messaging components using JMS  • Created Maven build scripts for application build and deployment.  • Prepared the High Level and low-level Design Artifacts.  • Used Agile methodologies and successfully implemented Scrum methodology  • Used LDAP server for user authentication  • Used Subversion for code check-ins  • Created the jUnit Testcases    Environment: Java, J2EE, Oracle WebLogic, SOAP Web Services, XML, WSDL, Toad, Eclipse, SOA, UML, Ajax, TOAD, HTML, RMI, Angular 7, Subversion, Prime faces, Spring, Hibernate, Maven, Jenkins, JMS Sr Java/J2EE Developer Department of Treasury (TTB) Washington November 2015 to February 2018 COLAS is a web application which has Internal and External Components. COLAS filers use the External Application to submit the filings of alcoholic beverages labels. These filings are done based on organizational criteria. Internal Users use the COLAS Internal application to process the filings and complete the workflow according to the set of business rules defined in the TTB Policy.    As a Senior Java Developer -  • Involved in designing the system using UML use case diagram, class diagrams, sequence diagrams, component diagrams and activity diagrams.  • Implemented web components using Oracle ADF faces  • Used Spring Framework for implementing the business components using the Dependency Injection.  • Used Hibernate Framework for database layer  • Used MVC-II architecture for implementing application components  • Implemented Web services using SOA architecture  • Deployed components on WebLogic server  • Implemented Restful services using Jersey  • Configured and deployed the application components in Oracle Fusion Middleware platform (OFMW) platform  • Implemented SOAP based web services  • Configured the Jenkins to deploy the war file everyday automatically.  • Created Messaging components using JMS  • Created Maven build scripts for application build and deployment.  • Prepared the High Level and low-level Design Artifacts.  • Used Agile methodologies and successfully implemented Scrum methodology  • Used LDAP server for user authentication  • Used Subversion for code check-ins  • Created the jUnit Testcases    Environment: Java, J2EE, Oracle WebLogic, SOAP Web Services, XML, WSDL, Toad, Eclipse, SOA, UML, Ajax, TOAD, HTML, RMI, JavaScript, JSTL, OFMW, Subversion, Oracle ADF, Spring, Hibernate, Maven, Jenkins, JMS Java Developer US SECURITIES AND EXCHANGECOMMISION (SEC), DC February 2015 to October 2015 FEB2015- OCT2015  Project: EDGAR  Electronic data gathering and analysis, SEC filers do the filings through Filer Web. The filings are done based on organizational criteria. Once the filers submit the filings, email notification will be sent to the filers regarding the confirmations Internal users receives the filings and process the filings using various systems and rule like SEC Workstation, Acceptance, Receipt, Dissemination.    As a Java Developer -  • Implemented web components using Struts Framework  • Used Spring Framework for implementing the business components using the Dependency Injection.  • Involved in using Hibernate Framework for database access  • Involved in designing the system using UML use case diagram, class diagrams, sequence diagrams, component diagrams and activity diagrams.  • Configured and deployed enterprise application in Tomcat Server  • Used MVC-II architecture for implementing components  • Implemented JSR303 validation framework for cross field validation  • Implemented Web services using SOA architecture  • Developed SOAP and Restful services.  • Implemented jQuery for client-side validations  • Created the jUnit Testcases  • Created the ant build file for generating the war file.  • Configured the Jenkins to deploy the war file everyday automatically.  • Prepared the High Level and low-level Design Artifacts.  • Setup the Dev, Test and Stage Environments.  • Used the Design patterns - Session Facade, DAO Factory and Business Delegate  • Used PVCS for code-check-ins.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Sybase, Struts, J2EE Web Services, XML, WSDL, SOAP, Toad, Eclipse, SOA, UML, Ajax, TOAD, HTML, JavaScript, JSTL, Tomcat Server, PVCS Broker Freddie Mac - McLean, VA November 2012 to January 2015 McLean VA NOV 2012- JAN2015  Project: Costing and Underwriting system  Loans will get the funded loan, used web services to automatically update different databases where users requested for funding of the loan. Compliance check of costing involves the Broker credit check and responsible for Publishing the costing system    As a Java Developer -  • Implemented JSF ICE Faces for Developing User Interface  • Deployed Ear files in Application Server  • Used Spring Framework for Implementing Dependency Injection  • Involved in using Hibernate for database access  • Involved in designing the system using UML use case diagram, class diagrams, sequence diagrams, component diagrams and activity diagrams using Rose.  • Developed and deployed Applications in Oracle WebLogic application server  • Used MVC-II architecture for implementing components  • Used Jenkins for automation build    Environment: Java, J2EE, Oracle, J2EE Web Services, XML, WSDL, Soap, UDDI, Toad, Eclipse, SOA, UML, Ajax, TOAD, HTML, RMI, JavaScript, JSTL, WebLogic Application Server, subversion Java Developer CNCS Federal - Washington, DC May 2012 to November 2012 Washington DC MAY 2012-NOV 2012  The system checks the qualification of the user to get the grants. Before federal grants get granted system checks the organizational grants, which will have code to verify through web service and finally provide the status of each nonprofit Organization.    As a Java Developer -  • Involved in using Struts for developing Web components  • Developed Flex components in Flash builder  • Developed business components using EJB3.0  • Involved in using iBatis for database access  • Developed and deployed Applications in WebLogic Application Server  • Used Antilipo for automation build  • Involved in using JMS for Reliable messaging  • Developed web services using J2EE Web Services Using Rest lets and Jetty.  • Used LDAP server for Authenticating different roles  • Extensively applied Design Patterns.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Oracle, J2EE Web Services, XML, WSDL, Soap, UDDI, Toad, Eclipse, SOA, UML, Ajax, TOAD, HTML, RMI, JavaScript and JSTL. WebLogic Application Server, subversion Sr Java Developer International Finance Corporation May 2011 to April 2012 Washington (dc) May2011 -April 2012    The collaborate system usually serves internal and external World Bank. It's used for collaborating between Users To discuss various things about the communities and groups of organization. Also used to manage projects and schedules groups and communities. Analytics dashboard display data of communities' spaces and groups.    As a Sr Java Developer -  • Involved in using Flex components  • Used MXML and Action script  • Used Flash builder to develop Flex components  • Used FTL in struts framework  • Used Jive as collaborating tool  • Involved in using Hibernate for database access  • Involved in using Struts for developing Web components  • Used JSP and servlets in struts framework  • Developed business components using EJB3.0  • Involved in using Hibernate for database access  • Developed and deployed Applications in WebLogic Application Server  • Used MVC-II architecture for implementing components  • Used Antilipo for automation build  • involved in using JMS for Reliable messaging Sr Java Developer Department of Veterans Health administration, Washington April 2010 to May 2011 dc) APRIL2010-MAY2011    The Research Management System for Windows (WinRMS) system designed to assist VA Research Field Offices in administering funding for VA Research.  WinRMS was developed by the Research & Development Computing Center (RDCC) in Baltimore and is available to all VA Research Field Offices at no charge.  WinRMS is intended to replace the original Research Management System. The original Research Management System is maintained and distributed by RDCC and is considered obsolete. WinRMS provides the same capabilities as the original RMS using a Windows Desktop user interface. WinRMS can be used as a standalone system with data being entered manually or it can be installed on the VA Vista network and expense data can be retrieved from the Vista system. If WinRMS is installed within the Vista network on a secure computer, expense data can be downloaded from the Vista    As a Sr Java Developer -  • Involved in using JSF for developing Web components  • Developed Flex components in Flash builder  • Deployed Ear files in Application Server  • Developed business components using EJB3.0  • Involved in using Hibernate for database access Sr. Java Developer Verizon Telecom - Silver Spring, MD March 2009 to April 2010 Silver spring, MD Mar 2009-Apr 2010  VRepair is developed for the creation of an automated, high volume export compliance screen for both manual transactions and for transactions flowing through various Verizon internal quote, order, and shipping systems and Verizon Fios Tickets. ECC provides support for the existing Order Pro interface (OWM) and have an improved GUI for non-automated compliance checks. Vrepair ECC is integrated with external content (Management Dynamics) for automatic screening of Denied Parties, Embargoed Destinations and Restricted Party Screens. Web Services were developed in preparation for integration with Phase 2, 3, and 4 export Compliance development initiatives. Vrepair ECC will be integrated with Trade Collaborator to provide automated fallout to IT'S for restricted parties and locations, embargoed countries, controlled products, and non-US addresses.  As a Sr. Java Developer -  • Involved in using JSF for developing Web components  • Used Spring framework for developing Enterprise components  • Involved in using Hibernate for database access  • Developed and deployed Applications in WebLogic Application Server Sr Java Developer EBAR-Maryland Judiciary (State Govt), MD October 2008 to March 2009 OCT2008-MAR2009  IOBAS is the Billing and Accounting system for SBLE. The project is a completely customizable tool for SBLE and is used for calculating bills for the partner vendors for various mortgage enable services. The web interface developed for all the users at different levels. Modules developed in this system are Reference Data, Fault Management, Outage Management, Data Authorization, Error Correction, Invoice, charging and pricing, working levels, TGP Error Correction, Bill Generation, Reports, Invoice Transaction Processing and Accounting.    As a Sr Java Developer:  • Involved in all the phases of SDLC including Requirements Collection, Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications, Development and Customization of the Application.  • Developed business components using EJB  • Developed JMS queues  • Designing the system using UML Use Cases, Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams using Visio.  • Created graphical user interfaces (GUI) using the JSP components.  • Developed and deployed Applications in WebLogic Application Server Education Master's Skills ECLIPSE, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, JBOSS, Java J2Ee, Spring, Rest, Soap, Core Java Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Architecture Concepts: OOAD, Middle ware (Application Server), J2EE,  Design Patterns JMS, SOA  Web Services: J2EE Web Services, WSDL, SOAP, UDDI, XML  Enterprise Service Bus (ESB): WebLogic Aqua Logic Service Bus2.0  Modeling Language: UML  Frameworks: ADF, Struts, spring, Hibernate, JSF, jUnit, Ajax  Application Servers: WebSphere, WebLogic, jBoss7, JBoss Eap6 and Tomcat  Languages: JAVA, C, C++, XML  Operating Systems: Red hat Enterprise Linux, Sun Solaris, Windows  Databases: Oracle 10g  Tools: RAD, WSAD, WebLogic Workshop, Eclipse, Rational Rose, Flash Builder, JDeveloper  Version Control: SCME, VSS, CVS