Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Full Stack Developer - Vanguard Malvern, PA • Over 10+ years of professional experience including design and development of projects, building the web applications using in the areas of Java/J2EE Client and Server-side enterprise applications.  • Good Skills in all phases of SDLC like requirements, development with Agile, Scrum, TDD, Waterfall.  • Extensively used Java 8 features such as lambda expressions, Parallel operations on collections, and multithreading.  • Strong experience in design, development using Java, J2EE, Servlets, JMS, MVC Framework, Web services, XML.  • Implemented design patterns Singleton, MVC, Object Factory, Front Controller, Factory Design pattern, Singleton.  • In-depth knowledge and experience with J2EE JACC, JAAS, JSSE, JCA and JCE, Kerberos GSS-API, Spring Security, Oauth 2.0, OpenIDConnect, SAML 2.0.  • Extensive experience in designing professional UI web applications using front-end technologies like AngularJS, Node.js, Angular 2/4, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery AJAX, JSON and Bootstrap  • Experience in building web applications using Spring framework features MVC, AOP, DAO, Spring Boot, Spring Microservices, Spring REST, Spring Eureka, Spring Ribbon, Spring Netflix, Spring Zulu, Spring Security, Spring JDBC Templates.  • Implementing Service Oriented Architecture using Web Services including SOAP, REST, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, SOAP UI.  • Developed applications using Rule Engines-JBOSS Drools, Workflows, Human tasks to implement Business rules validations.  • Experienced in implementing modules like Hibernate, JavaBeans, Servlets, Struts, and XML Mapping.  • Experience in creating Docker images, Containers, push/pull and integrating with Spring Boot.  • Ability to design & implement cloud native solutions on Google cloud platform.  • Expertise in working with cloud services like Amazon web services AWS, Spring Cloud services and PCF are used.  • Hands on in AWS, which includes EC2, S3, Elastic Load Balancer, Beanstalk, Cloud watch, IAM, Server Migration, Route 53, SQS, VPC, S3, Dynamo DB, SNS, Glacier, RDS, EC2 Container Service, Lambda and NoSQL databases, Cassandra, MongoDB.  • Application portability and App auto-scaling using Cloud Foundry installation & configuration of Apigee Edge.  • Experience in designing and developing applications in Spark using Scala to compare the performance of Spark with Hive and SQL/Oracle.  • Experienced Pivotal Gemfire caching configuration and administration for better real-time performance.  • Extensive experience with RDBMS like Oracle 11g, MySQL and developing Views, Functions and SQL Queries, Stored Procedures and Triggers Involved in Designing the DatabaseSchema and writing the complex SQL.  • Performed Query operations on NoSQL database Cassandra for storing and loading data of customers.  • Used Jenkins as the integration tool and improved Scalability of applications on cross-platforms.  • Experience in TDD, using JUnit framework with Mockito and Easy mock, Spring Junit Runner.  • Experienced in using Log4j and good expertise in application build tools like ANT, Gradle and Maven.  • Worked on Git as version control management and JIRA as Defect management for bug, issue tracking of application. Used JENKINS for continuous integration (CI) and continuous deployment (CD) pipeline.    ProgrammingLanguage Java 1.7/1.8, SQL, PL/SQL  Java/J2EE Technologies    Bigdata/Hadoop Technologies    Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JDBC, JMS, JNDI, RMI, EJB, Swing, AWT, Applets, Multi-threading, Java Networking  Spark, Kafka, Storm, Drill, Zookeeper and Oozie    Java Frameworks Spring MVC, Struts 2.0, JSF  Application/Web Servers WebLogic, IBM WebSphere, JBoss, Tomcat  ORM Frameworks Hibernate 4.0/3.0 , JSF, IBATIS  Web Technologies JSP, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, XML, XSLT, XHTML, DHTML, CSS, SASS, LESS, HTML, AngularJS, Ext JS, backbone JS, Oauth, SAML.  Spring Framework  Spring IOC, Spring Batch, Spring Boot, Spring Security, Spring Hystrix, Spring Heroku, Spring Zuul, Spring Netflix, Spring Integration, Spring Eureka, Spring Ribbon, Spring Yarn    Database Server Oracle 10g/11g, DB2, MongoDB, SQL server, MS Access and MySQL, Cassandra.  IDE Eclipse, RAD, WSAD, NetBeans, IntelliJ  Web Services REST, SOAP, JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, WSDL, Axis2, Apache CXF  Version Control GIT, CVS, SVN  Build Tools ANT, Maven, Gradle Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Vanguard - Malvern, PA June 2018 to Present Description: Vanguard is an Americans Investment Management company. They are the largest provider in Mutual funds and in Exchange trade funds. They provide financial advices to corporate and private clients about Investment matters. The objective of Investment Management is to set-up, maintain, and share Investment information in a flexible system that easily supports company growth, increases speed to market and improves data accuracy, while reducing user workload.    Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile methodology and involved in daily SCRUM meetings, sprint planning, showcases and retrospective and used JIRA as a tracking tool for the sprints.  • Involved in Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development by following Agile methodology  • Used Java 8 features like Stream API to write effective, clean and concise code, Filters, Pipeline to make our application easier accessing the elements from collections and applying operations on it.  • Used advanced Java 8 features like Lambda expressions for array operations, collections,concurrency methods.  • Used Spark-Streaming APIs to perform necessary transformations and actions on the fly for building the common learner data model which gets the data from Kafka in near real time and Persists into Cassandra.  • Configured deployed and maintained multi-node Dev and Test Kafka Clusters.  • Experienced in handling large datasets using Partitions, Spark in Memory capabilities, Broadcasts in Spark, Effective & efficient Joins, Transformations and other during ingestion process itself.  • Design, Development and Integration of Consumer and Provider Web Services Authentication using XML SOA Gateway security policies that include Basic Authentication, SSL Mutual Authentication, SAML 2.0 Web Browser SSO SP POST Request, IdP POST Response, Out-Of-Band Mobile Authentication etc.  • Work with application developers and provide guidance in secure code development, digital authentication X509, SAML, Out-Of-Band technologies and web services integration.  • Involved in developing use case diagrams, class diagrams, sequence diagrams and process flow diagrams for the modules using UML and Rational Rose.  • Designed GUI using JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Angular 4, Customs tags and developed Client-Side validations.  • Extensively used jQuery to perform AJAX calls for creating interactive web pages on JSON response.  • Developed SPA which can switch to different components using Angular 4 services to get data.  • Implementing jQuery, Node.js and modularized front-end using CSS. JavaScript with SASS.  • Worked with Microservices related frameworks Spring Ribbon, Eureka for client-side load balancer.  • Implemented pre-authentication data base security using Spring security and Spring Batch for scheduling and of batch jobs.  • Implemented RESTful microservices using the Spring boot, Spring Integration, Hibernate, Spring Data, MVC.  • Used microservices with spring boot interacting combination of REST and apache Kafka message brokers.  • Involved in developing API's and Rest API proxy using APIGEE edge and for sending mobile notifications.  • Created Stored procedures, triggers and views using PL/SQL for data modification Using DML insert, update, delete in Oracle.  • Experience in Using the Spring ORM component for hibernate support for manipulating data for oracle 11g.  • Configured the JBOSS to connect with Oracle objects like tables, views using oracle tools like Toad, and SQL* plus.  • Worked on purging logs on Elastic Search DB and Kibana UI, involved in trouble-shooting logs using Log stash.  • Creation of custom Docker container images, tagging, pushing images, integration of Spring boot application.  • Developed applications using Rule Engines-JBOSS Drools, Workflows, Business rules validations.  • Used Swagger framework, implementing the Restful API and Swagger gives the rich User interface to test API.  • Worked with GIT, Source Tree and Bitbucket for source code management, unit tests, automated tests.  • Jenkins as Continuous Integration Server for configuring, administrating, integrating with system tools.  • Created and configured management reports and dashboard using Splunk by identifying data patterns, metrics.  • Developed all custom processes, workflows and schemes within JIRA to accommodate the organization's needs.  • Implemented Maven script to create wars & JARS and deploy the entire project into JBOSS and Log4J.  Environment: Java 1.8, HTML5, CSS3, Angular 4, Node.js, jQuery JSON, AJAX, DOM, HQL,Bootstrap,JBOSS 5.1, Spring Boot, Spring Ribbon, Spring Security, Spring Batch, Scala, Selenium, JIRA,Apache Kafka, REST, Hibernate, DAO, JPA, Eclipse, log4j, Oracle 11g, GIT, Maven, Jenkins, AWS, Docker, Elasticsearch, JBOSS, Kibana, Junit, Swagger. Java Full Stack Developer CIOX Health - Alpharetta, GA January 2016 to May 2018 Description: CIOX provides a variety of services in release of information department (ROI), record retrieval and health information management. On the technology side, the company does penetration testing and social engineering testing with 3rd parties and the company itself. The company trains its workforce around HIPAA, security and privacy.    Responsibilities:  • Used Agile methodology and attended daily and weekly SCRUM meetings to update working status etc.  • Used J2EE design patterns like Adapter, Service locator, Session facade, Singleton, Factory and DAO.  • Used Multi-threading to overcome the errors in the process of transactions, handle threads by main thread process.  • Developed Spark scripts by using Scala shell commands as per the requirement.  • Used Custom Node.js proxy used to simulate API responses before client implementation was complete.  • Experience in developing server-side applications using Node.js to achieve scalability in real-time web applications.  • Develop screens for the front end using React JS and used various predefined components from NPM and React Redux library.  • Design, Development and Integration of Consumer and Provider Web Services Authentication using XML SOA Gateway security policies that include Basic Authentication, SSL Mutual Authentication, SAML 2.0 Web Browser SSO SP POST Request, IdP POST Response, Out-Of-Band Mobile Authentication etc.  • Build design and development artifacts, code and scripts to integrate with core infrastructure and taking applications to production  • Build analytics services on GCP  • Build and deploy micro services-based applications in public cloud Experience with Continuous Integration & Continuous Deployment tools and processes  • Apache Mesos and Kubernetes were used as the best ecosystem to deploy and manage Micro-services.  • Used RabbitMQ message broker to route messages to the clients across the cloud network of entire project.  • Worked with Apache Tomcat 8 and Node.js servers to deploy and configure Java API's and frontend modules.  • Extensively Used Apache Storm to transform unstructured data before it sends into NOSQL Data Base.  • Used XML parser API's like JAXB API within the web service for marshalling/unmarshalling.  • Involved in Support and Maintenance of the application and troubleshooting of Issues on JBOSS by checking logs, payments.  • Worked with Version Control Systems like CVS, SVN (Sub Version), GIT, GitHub, Clear Case.  • Used Pivotal Cloud Foundry to role-based access controls, applying and enforcing roles and permissions to ensure that users.  • Created continuous integration builds using Jenkins and deployed on WebSphere application server.  • Used Gradle tool to configure and build the application project and continuous integrated with Jenkins.  • Used RAD (Rational Application Developer) which is based on Eclipse, to develop and debug application code.  • Implemented automation using Selenium WebDriver, JAVA, and Selenium Grid.  Environment: Java 8, Spring MVC, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, Spring DAO, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Spring Security, Spring Integration, Linux, Spring-Hibernate integration framework, JSP, Oracle, PL/SQL, XML, Spring web flow, Junit, GIT, Maven, Jenkins, AWS (EC2, VPC), GCP, REST web service, HTML, CSS, SASS, AJAX, Jira, Angular 2.0, Angular JS. Sr. Java/ J2EE Developer Federal Home Loan Bank - Des Moines, IA June 2014 to December 2015 Description: A primary benefit FHLB application in access to low cost secured borrowings, known as advances, which are funded by the FHL Banks in the capital markets from the issuance of discount notes or term debt, collectively known as consolidated obligations (COs) and worked with credit cards.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the application using AGILE-SCRUM methodology.  • Developed user interface using JSP with JavaBeans, JSTL and Custom Tag Libraries, JavaScript, CSS, jQuery, Node.js, HTML, SASS and Ajax to increase the speed of the application.  • Incorporating Spring IOC & DAO framework for Dependency Injection with MVC design pattern for Auto Job scheduling.  • Used AJAX to request JSON data through REST APIs to acquire data from server and display in sorted order.  • Involved in J2EE design patterns such as Data Transfer Object (DTO), DAO, value object and template.  • Focused on the spring components such as Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers, Model and View Objects.  • Implemented Spring Bean Factory to create proxy object using AOP framework.  • Involved in implementation of enterprise integration with web services and legacy systems using SOAP and REST.  • Involved in creating Restful web services using JAX-RS and JERSEY tool.  • Developed application using JMS for sending and receiving Point-to-Point JMS Queue messages.  • Developed a multi-user web application using JSP, Servlet, JDBC, Spring and Hibernate framework to provide needed functionality and assisted database developers using PL/SQL for managing data with the tables in Oracle.  • Implemented Maven Script to create JAR, WAR, EAR& dependency JARS and deploy the entire project onto the WebLogic.  • Used CQL (Cassandra Query Language) to read from and write data into Cassandra database.  • Database development required creation of new tables, SQL stored procedures, functions, views, indexes and constraints, triggers and required SQL tuning to reduce the response time in the application.  • Implemented NoSQL persistence pattern for some data within app to increase performance by indexing.  • Used Maven for generating system builds and Jenkins for continuous integration.  • Worked on Drools rules engine and expectation rule engine for writing business rule validation  • Wrote unit-testing codes using Junit, resolved bugs and other defects using firebug and wrote Junit test cases for spring controllers and web service clients in service layer using Junit.  • Used Log 4j for debugging, testing and maintaining the system Using JIRA to manage the issues/project work flow.  • Participated in integration testing, bugs fixing, handling change requests and code reviews.  • Implemented continuous integration of automation framework using tools like Jenkins, Hudson.  Environment: Spring, Hibernate, Web services, JAX-RS, JUNIT, SOAP, UI, SQL, JSP, JDBC, JSON, JavaScript, jQuery AJAX, Html, CSS, Angular JS, PL/SQL, Jenkins, Maven, log4j, Jenkins, JIRA, Spring IOC, DTO, JMS, APACHE AXIS, Apache CXF, GIT, UNIX, AGILE-SCRUM, Oracle, Tomcat, Drools. Java/J2EE Developer Footlocker - New York, NY August 2011 to May 2014 Description: This is an internet based online shopping website in which products will be sold electronically involving buyers and sellers. The application also has Google map to represent the address. The products that this application sell, or buy are related to electronic products, consumer products and household products.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Developed the applications using Java, J2EE, Struts, JDBC  • Implemented Core Java concepts like Multithreading, Concurrency, Exception Handling and Collections.  • Developed presentation layer using HTML5, CSS3 and client validation using JavaScript, DOM, JSON.  • SQL server Database design & store procedures creation  • Used Java8 to implement business logic & connect with another frame works  • Used Apache Maven for build life cycle management  • Deploy application war files in Tomcat application server  • Used JIRA for defect tracking and project management.  • Used AJAX extensively to implement front end /user interface features in the application.  • Implemented SOA to develop Web services using Apache Axis.  • Developed Web Services clients to consume those Web Services as well other enterprise wide Web Services.  • Exposed the Web Services to the client applications by sharing the WSDL's.  • Developed Functional Requirement Document based on users' requirement.  • Interact with other teams to produce or consume REST web services  • Monitor application performance & improve application stability  • Handle enhancements in existing production applications  • Worked in Agile environment &Sprints using JIRA  • Experienced in designing and automation of web services testing using Ready API (SOAP and REST).  • Developed Maven scripts and developed builds using Maven and continuous integration servers like Jenkins.  • Used XML Http Request Object to provide asynchronous communication as part of AJAX implementation.  Environment: Java/J2EE, HTML5/CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JSP, HTML, HTML5, CSS, AJAX, JSON, MVC, JSP, SOAP based XML web services, Spring, Hibernate, PL/SQL, TOAD, Oracle10g, Junit, JBOSS Drools 4.x, Workflows, Angular 2.0, Angular JS. Java Developer Green Point Bank - New York, NY December 2010 to July 2011 Description: Green Point Financial Corp. is a bank holding company whose bank subsidiary, Green Point Bank, had 73 branches in the New York City metropolitan area in 1998. Through its mortgage lending subsidiary, the company was the national lender in no-documentation residential mortgages.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like requirement gathering, design, analysis and code development.  • Worked one-on-one with client to develop layout, color scheme and implemented it into a final interface design with the HTML5/CSS3, Bootstrap and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed the UI using JSP, HTML, HTML5, CSS and JavaScript, AJAX, JSON.  • Worked on various use cases in development using struts and testing the functionalities.  • Involved in preparing the High Level and Detail level design of the system using J2EE.  • Involved in the development of model, library, struts and form classes (MVC).  • Worked on core java, using file operations to read system files and to present on JSP.  • Developed SOAP based XML web services.  • Used different patterns like SOA, MVC pattern, DAO pattern, and Singleton.  • Developed stored procedures, triggered stored procedures using Hibernate in secondary project, involved in developing Programmatic transactions using Hibernate.  • Extensively worked on uploading files into CLOB and BLOB's of oracle database.  • Migrated from Ant to Maven via Ivy for dependency resolution.  • Worked with high volume and complex PL/SQL stored procedures and packages using TOAD.  • Used PL/SQL stored procedures for applications that needed to execute as part of a scheduling mechanisms.  • Experience in updating, modifying queries in Oracle 10g.  • Used Rational Clear Case for version control and JUnit for unit testing.  • Configured JBOSS application server and deployed the web components.  • Developed applications using rule engines, JBOSS Drools 4.x, Workflows, human tasks implement business rules validations and provided Drools dashboard for business users.  • Provided troubleshooting and error handling support in multiple projects.  Environment: Java/J2EE,HTML5/CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JSP, HTML, HTML5, CSS, AJAX, JSON, MVC, JSP, SOAP based XML web services, singleton, Hibernate, Ant to Maven via Ivy, PL/SQL, TOAD, Oracle10g, Junit, JBOSS Drools 4.x, Workflows. Java Developer Orange Scape Technologies June 2009 to November 2010 Description: The Auto Insurance Application allows customers to access their account online. This application provides employers to access customer information to process & authorize claims of the customers and generates free quotes for the customers depending on the type of insurance package they selected. It also facilitates customers to pay their monthly premiums.    Responsibilities:  • Participated in System design, planning, estimation and implementation.  • Involved in developing use case diagrams, class diagrams, sequence diagrams and process flow diagrams for the modules using UML and Rational Rose.  • Developed the presentation layer using JSP, AJAX, HTML, CSS and client validations using JavaScript.  • Developed and implemented the MVC architectural pattern using Spring framework.  • Effective usage of J2EE design patterns namely session facade, factory method, command and Singleton to develop various base framework components in the application.  • Programmed one temple website using core PHP.  • Developed various EJBs (session and entity beans) for handling business logic.  • Developed Session Beans and data access object classes for accounts and other modules.  • Extensively used Spring JDBC in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Consumed Web Services using WSDL and UDDI from third party for authorizing payments to/from customers.  • Used JAXB API to bind XML Schema to java classes.  • Involved in Units integration using JUnit, bug fixing, and user acceptance testing with test cases.  • Used CVS for version control and Maven as a build tool.  • Used Log4j for logging errors, messages and performance logs.  • Used JBOSS application server to deploy application.    Environment: Java, J2EE, UML and Rational Rose, JSP, JAXB, XML, JBOSS, AJAX, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Spring MVC framework, Singleton, Spring JDBC, WSDL, UDDI, PHP, EJB's, Session Beans, Junit, CVS, Maven, Log4j. Education Bachelor's Skills Application development, Docker, Jenkins, Visio, Junit, Selenium, Rational, Rational rose, Apache, Linux, Unix, Microsoft visio