Sr.Salesforce Lightning Developer Sr.Salesforce Lightning <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr.Salesforce Lightning Developer - IT America Inc Edison, NJ • Over 10+years of IT experience in various stages of Software Development which includes as Salesforce CRM Developer which involves Administrator, Development, Integration, communities and lightning like classic to lightning migration and lightning component development. 4Years of experience on Java • Experience in Java/J2EE Technologies includes Analysis, Design and Development, Testing, Implementation, production support and maintenance of various Applications.  • Knowledge of Object model of Contract Management and CPQ applications.  • Hands on experience in Salesforce.com CRM integration, developing and deploying custom integration solutions.  • Professional experience on creating Salesforce.com Apex Triggers on customized objects, writing Apex classes, Apex controllers, Test Classes, SOAP API, REST API and developing Visual Force Pages • Expertise in SFDC Administrative tools like, managing users, Data Management, Domain Management, Generating Reports, Dashboards, Communication Templates, Tasks and Events.  • In-depth understanding of CRM business processes and management of Lead, Order, Account, Case and Campaign.  • Proficient in creating custom objects, custom Tabs, custom fields, pick list values, Role based page layouts, Workflow Alerts and Actions, Workflow Rules and Approvals, Validation Rules, Custom reports and Report extractions to various formats • Created relationships between objects like Master-Detail, Lookup, Entity relationship, Data model etc.  • Strong knowledge about Sales cloud, Service cloud, Marketing configuration and customization and good understanding with Client/Server architecture, Object-Oriented design techniques and web application design.  • Customized standard objects like Accounts, Opportunities, Contacts.  • Experience with Outlook Integration, Single Sign On, and Salesforce to Salesforce functionality's.  • Experience evaluating and integrating Salesforce AppExchange solutions within overall implementation.  • Experience in SFDC Integration using Web Service and Apex Programming, • Salesforce Service Cloud expertise.  • Strong in Aura Lightning framework with Applications, Components, Controllers, Stylesheets.  • Experienced in all phases of SDLC (Software Development) ranging from requirement gathering, design, development, Testing and deployment, including methodologies like Agile, Iterative Software Development and Rational Unified Process (RUP).  • Proven track record in preparing BRD (Business Requirement Document), SRS (System Requirement Specifications), Design Specifications and defining Project plan.  • Skilled in interpersonal communication and client negotiation, utilized while conducting JAD (Joint Application Development) sessions for requirement analysis, adaptability and feasibility studies to identify critical high-risk areas of the project.  • Involved in using Lightening, Process Builder and Workflows. Worked on customization of visual force to have Lightening Experience for desktop and mobile applications.  • Experience in building reusable UI components and pages with Lightning component framework.  • Worked on Salesforce Lightning Components for building customized components replacing the existing ones.  • Worked on Apttus CPQ (Configure Price Quote) tool, shopping cart.  • Knowledge of Object model of Contract Management and CPQ applications.  • Ability to interact with technical and functional staff at all levels and excellent oral, written communication and presentation skills.  • Experienced in Sandbox Management (Like Refreshing Sandbox, Creating New Sandbox, Migrating code from one sandbox to the other).  • Experience in working with Agile/Scrum environment, Iterative, Waterfall software development methodologies.  • Hands on experience in writing batch classes, Schedule Apex, dynamic apex, single e-mail methods, mass e-mail methods, test classes, wrapper classes.  • Strong experience in working with Security framework, Dashboards, and reporting modules and designing, creating and implementing profiles, roles, record types, page layouts, assignment and work flow rules, escalation rules, communication templates, approval processes and reports, and configuring security settings.  • Maintenance of installed Managed Packages in Lightning using Apex.  • Experienced in using Data Migration tool called Data Loader.  • Support and provide recommendations to the COO, CTO, VP of Sales, and VP of Services by tailoring Salesforce.com to meet agile business needs.  • Used field level security along with page layouts in Lightning to manage access to certain fields.  • Enabled Aura Framework, by adding Aura Attributes and Aura Handlers for Events to focus on Logic and Interactions in Lightning Applications • Familiar with Steel Brick CPQ for subscription, billing, invoicing and can take control of sales process from Quote to Cash. Generated Revenue recognition status automatically with Steel Brick CPQ • Experience working with Deployment Tools like Force.com IDE, Change Sets, and ANT based Migration Tools and Salesforce.com Sandbox environments.  • Extensive hands-on knowledge in 15+ Web Technologies and APIs like JavaScript, AngularJS, NodeJS, PHP, Ajax, jQuery, REST API, SOAP API, BULK API, Google API, HTML5, XML, JSON, Google Analytics, Facebook API, Twitter API, Yelp API, am Charts, Data Tables.  • Excellent communication and interpersonal skills, accustomed to work in both large and small team environments. A team player with strong ethic, a positive attitude and worked in Agile environment to make the best use of individual resources.  • Have good working knowledge in querying salesforce.com database using SOQL and SOSL queries using Force.com Explorer. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr.Salesforce Lightning Developer IT America Inc - Edison, NJ May 2018 to Present Responsibilities: • Involved in various activities of the project, like development meeting, requirement gathering, and analyzing requirements, documenting the functional and nonfunctional requirements.  • Designed, developed and deployed the Custom Apps, Custom objects, Custom Fields, Custom buttons, Page layouts, Custom tabs, Components, Visual Force Pages, Apex classes to suit to the needs of the application.  • Worked in Agile methodology, attended daily scrum meetings, weekly grooming meetings and sprint review meetings.  • Implemented Salesforce Lightning Components for small set of users within the organization, developed Lightning components and server-side controllers to meet the business requirements.  • Developed web apps for desktop using Salesforce Lightning Component UI framework.  • Created Lightning components and apps combining Lightning Design system, Lightning App Builder and Lightning Component features.  • Developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Worked with SFChatter which helps the users to communicate with the organization easily and quickly.  • Enforced security by implementing object and field level security, sharing rules, permission sets, organization wide defaults and roles.  • Used refined global search in Lightning by developing Apex classes and Controllers.  • Used field level security along with page layouts in Lightning to manage access to certain fields.  • Implemented Salesforce web services like SOAP and REST API, Java, XML.  • Performed Data Migration from home grown legacy system to salesforce CRM using Data loader.  • I was Involved in developing Salesforce Lightning applications using Lightning Components, Controllers and Events and used custom CSS in the components.  • Developed Lightning Component Framework and built Lightning component using aura framework.  • Cleaned up tons of un-useful data in our org using de-duping tools and cleansing data prior to import, created almost 90 validation rules to ensure data quality and integrity.  • Automated 80% of our manual processes using declarative tools like workflows, process builder, Flows, Approval processes and formula fields thus reducing significant manual effort across all our internal teams.  • Manage page layouts, fields, and system interface/capabilities, Lightning Component.  • Experience in creating Lightning Components and used Lightning Design System to convert existing Visualforce pages to lightning components.  • Used change-sets to deploy the code in to different environment (Testing, UAT and production).  • Implemented Sales cloud and incorporated the enhanced features as required to streamline the business process.  • Worked on Test classes of various triggers and apex classes in the application to maintain minimum of 75% code coverage.  • Created Apex methods for the lightning controller and helper methods to perform DML operations on the case records. Used Salesforce1 simulator during the development to test if the lightning components works properly on the mobile device • Strong Experience in Salesforce Lightning components design & designing compact layouts using Apex triggers, Page layouts, Visual force pages, workflows for Mobile platform.  • Created Lightning Components using Controllers, Helper Methods, AngularJS, CSS and Bootstrap.  • Upgraded some Apps from Salesforce Classic to Lightning experience to develop rich user interface and better interaction of pages.  • Created multiple Lightning Components, added CSS and Design Parameters that makes the lightning component look and feel better.  • Hands on experience on salesforce packages and lightning. Implementing salesforce lightning components for small set of users within the organizations.  • Used Salesforce1 simulator during the development to test if the lightning components works properly on the mobile device.  • Created Apex methods for the lightning controller and helper methods to perform DML operations on the case records.  • Responsible for building integration processes integrating cloud-based applications (SaaS/PaaS), and On-Premise Enterprise Applications.  • Done with integrations using connectors such as Sale force, HL7, SAP, Database, HTTP, FTP and File Connectors.  • Worked on data migration of objects like Account, contact, lead, attachments and custom objects from source SFDC to Target SFDC, used data loader and file exporter tools.  • Worked with Integration and web services. Integrated Salesforce with legacy systems using Apex Web services and outbound messaging.  • Used third party tool - File exporter for migrating Documents, Attachments objects.  • Integrated the web services using REST and SOAP by generating the necessary stubs from the WSDL files for extracting the data from the homegrown applications by using the homegrown web services.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Lightning Components, Pages, Data Loader, HTML, Java Script, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Agile, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Sandbox data loading, Eclipse IDE Plug-in. Salesforce Developer Kaiser - Pleasanton, CA February 2016 to April 2018 Responsibilities: • Performed the roles of Salesforce Developer and Administrator in the organization.  • Interacted with different business teams and developing teams to acquire the requirements and documentation of business and technology requirements.  • Developed Custom objects, Custom fields, Tabs, Record types as per the requirements of the organization. Salesforce developer • Automated business logics in the organization using validation rules, workflow rules and apex triggers.  • Created and configured Page layouts and search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists and other components in detail and edit pages of records.  • Created complex workflow rules and defined related tasks, email alerts, and field updates.  • Enhanced the security by configuring profiles, organization wide defaults, sharing rules and roles.  • Implemented pick lists, dependent pick lists, lookups, master detail relationships, validation and formula fields to the custom objects.  • Developed apex controllers and extensions along with Visualforce pages for better UI and functioning.  • Created various Reports (summary reports, matrix reports, pie charts, dashboards and graphics) and Report Folders to better utilize Sales force as a sales tool and configured various Reports for different user profiles based on the needs of the organization.  • Created custom Dashboards for manager's home page and gave accessibility to dashboards for authorized people.  • Used Data Loader for insert, update, bulk import or export of data from Salesforce .com sObjects used it to read, extract, and load data from comma separated values (CSV) files.  • Used Salesforce.com developer toolkit including Apex Classes, Controllers and Triggers, Visualforce, Force.com IDE, Migration Tool, Web Services API.  • Create/setup Sandbox for user testing and migrate code from development org to other sandbox and production orgs, and vice versa using Force.com IDE.  • Used the Agile methodology to develop documentation and business models in support of SDLC implementation.  • Worked closely with the business for requirements and enhancements while guiding implementation and facilitating Testing including user acceptance of changes.  • Responsible for analysis, requirements, Testing, production migration and project management of all support issues.  • Hands on experience on Batch/Real Time Data migration tasks.  • Defining Validation rules, Work flows and Approval process based on the client requirements.  • By using Apex Data Loader importing data into Salesforce cloud.  • Generating reports and Dashboards.  • Involved in end to end testing and configuration enhancement for the CPQ and CLM functionalities.  • Used Visualforce to build enrich UI for creating Custom buttons and for routing to new pages and worked on integrating SOAP and REST API.  • Involved in end to end QA and UAT testing and validation of CPQ including products, pricing, quoting etc.  • Written SOQL, SOSL, Aggregate, Relationship queries in apex classes, triggers to retrieve optimized data from sObjects.  • Ability to write complex SOQL, SOSL queries across multiple objects within the SFDC database.  • Hands on experience in Apttus CPQ to streamline configuration also to ensure pricing and quoting accuracy.  • Involved in CPQ (Configure, Price& Quote) design and mapped to the Salesforce custom objects and involved in Apttus Advanced Workflow Approvals.    Environment: apex, visual force, apex classes, soql, apex triggers,visual force, pages, batch apex, schedule apex, soap, rest, workflows and approvals, data warehousing, case management, automation, sandbox testing.salesforce.com platform, s-controls, salesforce.com custom objects, html, java script, workflows, reports, force.com eclipse plug-in, salesforce.com sandbox. Ms sqlserver2000, ms access, query analyzer, dts, bcp, sql profiler, import & export data, windows 2000 server, ms office suite (word, excel, powerpoint, outlook), sql, ms project, apttus cpq, ant script. Java Developer Bank of America - Charlotte, NC November 2014 to January 2016 CashPro online is a new worldwide client access channel, designed to deliver the global power of bank of America Merrill Lynch through one portal and one password. CashPro online represents a multimillion dollar investment shared client vision to create the industry's best banking experience. Providing greater control over the financial solutions your business uses through simple, global access wherever and whenever you choose.  Responsibilities: • Performed analysis and created UML diagrams, class diagrams and sequence diagrams using MS-Visio.  • Identified the Business Requirements of the project.  • Web application is developed using the Struts MVC framework.  • Used JSP to create login page, user profile, and account information pages.  • Wrote Custom tags and Tag Library Descriptor (TLD) for encapsulating dynamic functionality and used JSTL tags for populating data on the JSP.  • Developed server side utilities using Java Beans, XML, and EJB.  • Developed Stored Procedures extensively used XPath for finding information in an XML document.  • Used JDBC to connect to the database.  • Developed message driven beans (MDB)'s for receiving the messages from other systems.  • Developed DAO layer using JDBC and wrote several SQL queries to store and retrieve results from database.  • Apache Tomcat server administration.  • Developed Unix Shell Scripts to perform administrator related tasks.  • Used Java Swing for developing internal GUI applications.    Environment: Core Java, Swing, RAD, Servlets, JSP, Custom Tags, Structs, Java beans, EJB, JDBC, Oracle, XML, JMS, IBM Web Sphere, Net Beans, WSAD, Rational Rose, Unix, Shell Scripting. Java Developer Verizon - New York, NY August 2012 to October 2014 Responsibilities: • Involved in the High level and detailed Design, Coding, Testing, and Implementation of the applications.  • Created the rider's module, where information of clients are collected, stored, and managed.  • Developed code for Vendor module& Product module which contain information about various vendors from which insurance are bought and their product information respectively.  • Involved in creating JSP pages, JavaScript's validation and developed error handling framework for the application.  • Preparing unit test cases and documents for QA.  • Involved in the Data-Migration activities for creating Data Mapping documents from client source data to our new target system.  • Used AJAX for asynchronous communication with server to provide better user experience.  • Writing standalone Java classes, reusable components and Java Beans for getting data from oracle tables.  • Written hibernate mapping files, POJO classes.  • Involved in writing HQL queries and criteria queries.  • Supporting System Integrating Testing and User Acceptance Testing.  • Performing the Unit testing and basic functional testing with different set of data.  Environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, HTML, JDBC, JDK, Waterfall Model, Tomcat, Windows XP. Java Developer Productive Edge - Chicago, IL May 2010 to July 2012 Responsibilities: • Provide full Systems Development Life Cycle (SDLC) development with JAVA technology.  • Understand coding standards and implement these standards within the code being developed.  • Communicate effectively with users to determine problems and design requirements.  • Demonstrated ability to lead a team, manage a project and deliver end product on schedule.  • Able to independently document software/coding changes in compliance with SDLC guidelines and best practices.  • Willingness to learn, adopt and implement new technologies timely as project.  • Demonstrated ability design solutions for complex projects.  • Strong customer service and coordination skills combined with the ability to work effectively with the customer to review software application requirements as well as provide/propose technical solutions and architectural design for enhancements opportunities. Java Developer Vanguard - Valley Forge, PA March 2008 to April 2010 Responsibilities: • Provides senior-level expertise for developing full stack NGA applications • Provides leadership and guidance to a team on developing solutions that integrate with existing IT systems to satisfy business needs • Develops automated tests for functional, performance, and security testing using TDD methodology • Implements instrumentation for monitoring product health, business metrics, and consumption patterns • Thoroughly understands and complies with IT policies and procedures, especially those for quality and productivity standards that enable the team to meet established milestones.  • Communicates with project manager on a frequent basis. Identifies tasks and issues that may have an impact on service levels or schedules. Provides realistic task and cost estimates. Screens resumes of team members, interviews, makes hiring and assignment recommendations, and provides development feedback. Education Bachelor's Skills Apex (3 years), HTML (5 years), Java (10+ years), SDLC (4 years), sql (3 years) Links http://Salesforce.com Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Salesforce Technologies: Apex Language, Apex Classes, Apex Triggers, Apex Scheduler, Apex Webservices, Visualforce Pages, Visualforce Component and Controllers, AJAX, Workflow & Approvals, Dashboards, Lightning component Framework, Aura UI Framework, Analytic Snapshots, Case Management Automation, Custom Objects, Sandbox Refreshments, Deployments (Change sets), SOQL,Process Builder, Workflow Rules, Approval Process.  Salesforce Tools: Force.com Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Force.com Explorer, Force.com Data Loader, Excel Connector, Force.com Platform (Sandbox and Production), Force.com Migration Tool.  Programming Languages: Java, Apex, C, C++  Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, AJAX, XML, JavaScript  Operating System: MS Windows, Linux  Databases: MS SQL Server, DB2, PL/SQL  Methodologies: Agile, Scrum, SDLC, RUP.  Other Tools: Toad, Informatica, Eclipse, SQL Enterprise Manager, SQL Query Analyzer, AQT, ER-Win, MS Visio, Power Designer, Putty and Edit Plus