Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Sears ? Amrita Goyal about 5 years of experience in design, analysis, development and maintenance of complex high performance and scalable distributed object-oriented applications in Java.  ? Strong in Core Java including collections, multithreading, exceptional handling and data structures.  ? Experience in J2EE Software Development Life Cycle SDLC of business applications on Web and client-server environment using Java, Spring, XML, MySQL with Excellence in Analytical and People skills.  ? Excellent Java development skills using J2EE, J2SE, JDBC.  ? Proficient in developing and deploying Java/J2EE applications on Application Servers - JBOSS, Apache Tomcat.  ? Extensive experience in Open Source Java frameworks such as: Spring Dependency Injection, Inversion of Control.  ? Worked on Database programming using Oracle, MySql and strong in sql queries.  ? Experience in Software Development Life Cycle SDLC Requirements Specification, Design documents and writing Test cases -Waterfall to Agile methodology.  ? Involved in Agile Software Development Team using SCRUM, TDD Test Driven Development.  ? Experience in Web Application Development, SOA, Client-Server based Enterprise Applications, System Analysis, and Testing.  ? Possess strong communication and Interpersonal skills. Can quickly master and work on new concepts and applications with minimal supervision. Work Experience Java Developer Sears - Chicago, IL March 2019 to Present Responsibilities:    ? Worked on the Agile Methodology two weeks sprint and two sprints one iteration  ? Ability to adapt easily and effectively to learn any emerging technologies, self-learner and exceptional analytical capabilities.  ? Implemented Restful web services using technologies like JSON, XML and spring boot etc.  ? Worked on writing the business services for the given User stories.  ? Used Jira as a Tool to add tasks to the given user stories and adds defects during the Iteration.  ? Expertise in Core Java with strong understanding and working knowledge in Object Oriented Concepts like Collections, Interfaces, Exception Handling and Polymorphism.  ? Microservices Architecture is used to write the business services.  ? Worked on creating the Client Jar and hence worked on communication between microservices.  ? Spring Boot is used to develop the Application.  ? Good exposure to Restful Web services such as Get/Put/Post http methods.  ? Used Core Spring framework for dependency injection  ? Mockito is used as a framework to write Junit test cases.  ? Worked on writing the unit test cases for the business services with the code coverage of 100%.  ? Tomcat is used as an Application server to run and deploy the application.    Environment: Java 8, J2EE, Microservices, Spring Boot, Spring IOC, Mockito, Junit, Mysql, Git, Eclipse, Restful, JSON. Java Developer Infosys - Pune, Maharashtra March 2014 to February 2015 Description: Fraud Control System (Sears)  Fraud is at best a probability until proven. No E-com system till now is 100% fraud proof. This Fraud-Control plugin analyze all the orders placed by Sears.com / Kmart.com and come up with the Fraud-Score. Depending on the Fraud-Score system decide the next steps like order to be aborted, order to be put on hold.  The Fraud Score is calculated on different rules. These rules reside either in rule engine or java code depending on how much configuration is required for a given rule. Presently there are 24 Fraud -Control rules, which keeps changing as per the fraud case analysis.    Responsibilities  ? Analysed the issues reported by customer and provided the solution for them.  ? Configured the spring environment, extensively used in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  ? Used frameworks and libraries such as spring (Dependency Injections) and Jquery.  ? Worked on HTML5, and CSS for designing front end web applications.  ? Developed DAO's using JPA to interact with Oracle Database.  ? Involved in Application testing alongside with testing team.  ? Built restful web services using Spring-boot.    Environment: Java, J2EE, CSS, HTML5, AJAX, MySQL, XML, Spring Boot, JPA, Tomcat, Junit Java Developer Tech Mahindra - Pune, Maharashtra January 2011 to March 2014 Description: Aries_EST_Phoenix-ST (AT&T)  Phoenix is a webbased application used by AT&T CSR's to provision service requests from Corporate Customers. Phoenix interacts with various subsystems and updates the billing information in the AT&T billing system (Telegence).  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the requirements analysis, designing, development, testing and maintenance of the websites.  ? Created web page layouts using HTML and CSS.  ? Used various Core Java concepts such as Exception Handling, Collection APIs to implement various features and enhancements.  ? Wrote business services using java, spring  ? Used Log4j to provide central logging facility.  ? Written SQL statements for manipulating database.  ? Implemented Soap Web Services for other applications to communicate.  ? Investigate, debug and fixed potential bugs or defects in the implemented code.  ? Implemented junit tests and wrote the test cases with 100% Code Coverage.  ? Performed client-side validations over the forms using JavaScript.  ? Developed application using java in the business layer  ? Used Jenkins for continuous integration.  ? Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing Spring Inversion of Control (IOC)  Environment:  HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, Ajax, Maven, Mockito, Jenkins, Soap web services, WebSphere. Education Master of Science BITS - Pilani, Rajasthan 2013 Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Spring, jquery Additional Information Technical Skills:  J2EE Technologies JDBC, SOAP, WSDL, REST, XML, Spring, Spring Boot.  Web Technologies JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5, XML, HTTP, HTTPS, jQuery, AJAX, JSON  Spring framework Bean Factory, Dependency Injection/IOC, JDBC, ORM.  Distributed computing RESTful WS, API, XML.  Programming Languages Java, SQL  IDE Tools Eclipse, IntelliJ.  Web services Rest, SOAP  Databases Oracle, MYSQL  Design Methodologies Agile, SCRUM, TDD, XP.  Version control Tools & CI Git  Testing Tools Junit, Mockito  Project Management Tools JIRA, Microsoft Project  Messaging Services Apache Kafka