Sr. Java Full stack developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> Full stack <span class="hl">developer</span> Sr. Java Full stack developer - Bank of New York San Francisco, CA • Around 8 years of experience in Software Development Life Cycle phase's analysis, design, development, deployment and testing of systems, primarily in the distributed web based and client/server applications using Java/J2ee Technologies.  • Extensive Experience on different frameworks like Spring 4.0/3.2.5/3.1/2.5, Struts 2.3/1.2/1.1, Hibernate 4.1.9/3.5.0/3.0/2.0, Struts Validation and Tiles Frameworks.  • Experience in Agile (Scrum) and Rational Unified Process (RUP) methodologies.  • Extensive experience in developing enterprise applications using Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JPA, JMS, JNDI, JTA, RMI, JAX-RPC and JAX-WS.    • Extensive experience of working on all tiers of J2EE n-tier Architecture.  • Experience on Java Multi-Threading, Collection, Synchronization, and Exception Handling.  • Expertise in developing critical and responsive GUI/frontend components using Struts tag library, JSTL and custom tags, HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, ember.js, Angular JS, Node JS and AJAX.  • Strong experience in developing the Web Services using the JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, RESTful and Apache CXF.  • Expertise in XML technologies like XSD, XSLT, DOM, SAX, JAXP, JAXB, XMLBeans SOAP, WSDL, UDDI.  • Experience in JAVA/J2EE Design Patterns like Singleton, Factory, Abstract Factory, DAO, Business Delegate, Session Façade.  • Experience in working web applications deployed on Amazon Web Services (AWS) and configuring services like Aws Route, Cloud Front, Elastic load Balancer, EC2, RDS and Cloud watch.  • Expertise in developing distributed applications using servers like Web sphere, Web Logic, JBOSS, Tomcat and IBM MQ Series.  • Expert in writing SQL scripts and PL/SQL stored procedures, functions, queries, and triggers to interact with database.  • Experience with databases Oracle 9i/10g, PostgreSQL, DB2, SQL Server and MySQL.  • Experience in installation, configuration, troubleshooting, working and maintenance of Kafka & Spark clusters.  • Designed and developed object-relational mapping components using Hibernate.  • Experience in Production Support.  • Experience with HP Service manager to fix production incidents.  • Expertise in writing Shell scripts.  • Conversant with tools like Eclipse, RAD/WSAD, RSA, Spring Tool Suite, Jdeveloper and InteliJ.  • Experience in creating build scripts using Maven and ANT.  • Extensively worked with Repository tools like SVN, CVS, Tortoise SVN, and Subclipse.  • Strong TDD (test driven development) and continuous integration experience using JUnit.  • Hands on experience in Rational Suite of Products like Rational Rose in developing Use Cases, Sequence Diagrams using UML, Rational Suite.  • Experience working in and building Continuous Integration (CI) and Continues Deployment (CD) by building custom build and deployments jobs in Jenkins, Bamboo and team city and building automation tests based on Gherkin, utilizing Cucumber and selenium web driver.  • Experience in working on DevOps teams and help automate server and infrastructure configurations using shell scripting, Perl, chef cook books and building Docker Images.  • Experience in Unit Testing using JUNIT and Easy Mock.  • Experience with Continuous Integration Tools like Jenkins and Hudson.  • Experience with Maven, Trac, Sonar, Code Coverage Tools (Checkstyle, Emma, JaCoCo, FindBugs, PMD and PIT)  • Good team player having excellent analytical, problem solving, communication and interpersonal skills. Work Experience Sr. Java Full stack developer Bank of New York - San Francisco, CA February 2016 to Present OASYS is the Global Derivative Back Office System in use at Citigroup since the 90s. OASYS is capable of managing the life cycle of numerous products including Credit, Equity, Treasury, Swap, Option, CFDs and other engineered and structured products. OASYS also manages the life cycle of Deals or trades created in other Citi Systems.  The OASYS system consistently and reliably manages Payments and Confirmations for the firm using different subsystems: Payment Workflow Management System (PWMS), Confirmation Workflow Management System (CWMS) and Master Agreements. Trade Capture subsystem is the central point where information is captured for use by these subsystems. In OASYS transactional Data is viewed at three levels Deal, Transaction and Corpora.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Involved in Agile Development process and daily SCRUM meetings.  • Created an UML diagram that includes Sequence Diagrams, Class Diagrams & use case diagrams as part of the application design using Micro Soft Visio tool.  • Used WSDL, SOAP, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, CXF technologies to create web services, generate stubs and consuming the existing services.  • Used CXF API to generate Restful web services.  • Worked on running and managing web Apps using AWS Elastic Beanstalk.  • Designed and developed UI pages with AJAX, HTML, XHTML, DHTML, jQuery, CSS and JavaScript, AngularJS, Node-JS, JSP, JSON and Tag libraries.  • Used Hibernate as Object Relational Mapping (ORM) Tool for the backend data persistence.  • Designed, developed, and maintained the data layer using Hibernate and used Spring ORM to integrate with Hibernate. And, developed the Hibernate mapping files  • Used Kafka for as a message broker on the cluster as a proof of concept.  • Used IBM MQ Series in the project  • Developed an AngularJS workflow manager leveraging Angular-UI's state router for flexible configuration and management of multi-step user input flows.  • Implemented Spring MVC architecture and Spring Bean Factory using IOC, AOP concepts  • Written Chef recipes to perform middleware binary Installation and Configuration tasks involving jdk, Tomcat, WebLogic binaries installation.  • Configured Spring to manage Actions as beans and set their dependencies in a Spring context file.  • Used parsers like SAX and DOM for parsing xml documents and used XML transformations using XSLT.  • Involved in the JMS Connection Pool and the implementation of publish and subscribe using Spring JMS. Used JMS Template to publish and Message Driven Bean (MDB) to subscribe from the JMS provider.  • Developed EJB classes in the persistence layer for transaction management.  • Used IBM Web Sphere application server for deploying Web Services applications, used tc Server to deploy the web applications.  • Written stored procedures, triggers, and cursors using SQL, PL/SQL.  • Written JUnit Test cases using Easy Mock for performing unit testing.  • Used Maven for application life cycle management.  • Configured and scheduled Jenkins jobs for multiple projects on Jenkins.  • Experience with HP Service Manager to fix the production defects/incidents. Experience in production support.  • Used Checkstyle, Emma, JaCoCo, FindBugs, PMD, and PIT for code quality.  • Used Log4J API for logging and debugging.  • SVN is used for version control systems and source code management.  • Involved in various internal releases of the application and supported the application modules during testing and pre-production phases.  • Installation, Configuration and Administration of IBM WebSphere Application Server 7.0, 6.1, 6.0, 5.1 versions, BigFix and IBM License Metric Tool on Windows Environments.  • Tested SOAP web services using SOAP UI and REST web services using REST Client.  • Involved in peer & lead level design and code reviews.  • Used ehCache for caching.  • Involved in building the code & deploying on Web WebSphere Logic application server.  • Used BigFix Inventory to collect data about the usage of license metrics other than PVU and RVU MAPC.  • Configured Fixlets using BigFix.    Environment: Java 1.6, JSP, Spring 3.0, Design Patterns, EJB , XML, Angular2, SQL, PL/SQL Developer, JAX-WS, WSDL, soapUI, Hibernate, Web Sphere 8.5, tc Server, Maven, Jenkins, Trac, SVN, Tortoise SVN, Checkstyle, AJAX, jQuery, RSA, JUnit, UML, Log4j , Web services, SOAP, XSLT, ehCache, BigFix , IBM License Metric Tool, HP Service Manager. Java Fullstack Developer Well Care - Tampa, FL June 2014 to January 2016 Description: Well care is solely focused on healthcare industry. Our objective of the work was to implement user interface for Beneficiary Update, Fund Transfer and Submit Claim components using Java Server Faces. We have created services for claim processing. Services were also consumed by internal clients for the customer service.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, design and development phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • End to End Project management, including customization of product based on customer's requirement, meeting delivery deadlines on development, testing, implementation phases of the system.  • Worked on Agile methodology.  • Developed UI modules using HTML, JSP, jQuery, JavaScript and CSS.  • Designed and developed application based on Spring MVC design pattern.  • Used Spring IOC for dependency injection and Spring AOP for cross cutting concerns like logging, security and transaction management.  • Developed reusable and interoperable Web service modules based on SOA architecture using SOAP and RESTFUL.  • Created topics on the Desktop portal using Spark Streaming with Kafka and Zookeeper.  • Developing of the Application using Spring MVC Framework by implementing Controller, Service classes.  • Implemented spring framework Bean Factory & application Context for bean initialization and configurations  • Used Hibernate as Object Relational Mapping (ORM) Tool for the backend data persistence.  • Designed, developed, and maintained the data layer using Hibernate and used Spring ORM to integrate with Hibernate.  • Implemented B2B webservices using JAX-RPC and JAX-WS  • Implemented application database objects Stored Procedures using SQL and PL/SQL to interact with database.  • Developed user-friendly interface to seamlessly combine the new module with existing login system by using AngularJS  • Implemented Dependency Injection (IOC) feature of spring framework to inject beans into User Interface.  • Involved in writing SQL Queries to get the data from the database.  • Used Jenkins for Continuous Integration builds.  • Performed code reviews and used Checkstyle, Emma, JaCoCo, FindBugs, PMD, and PIT for code quality.  • Responsible for production support of the application using HP Service Manager.  • Used Spring Framework to develop lightweight business components.  • Used IBM MQ Series in the project  • Used XML for the data exchange and used SAX and DOM parser to extract and read the required information from the XML.  • Implemented the persistence layer using Hibernate ORM.  • Developed Web Services using REST, WSDL and XML.  • Developed the helper classes for better data exchange between the MVC layers.  • Developed session beans for the business logic.  • Used Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exception and for logging info and are helpful in debugging the issues.  • Developed the Hibernate mapping files and involved in writing JUnit test cases and suits using Eclipse IDE.  • Configured and deployed the application in WebLogic Application Server.    Environment: J2EE, Java, Servlets 3.1, JSP, JDBC, EJB, JQuery, HTML5, JSTL, XML, Spring 4.0, Hibernate 4.1.9, Oracle 11g, MQ, AngularJS, NodeJS, Web Services, JUnit, Log4j, SOAP, XML, JavaScript, UML, JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, JUnit 4.0, REST, WSDL, XML 1.1, Weblogic Sever 11g, Maven, Jenkins, Trac, SVN, Tortoise SVN, AJAX, jQuery, RSA, UML, HP Service Manager. Java/J2EE developer Citi Bank - Jersey City, NJ April 2012 to May 2014 Developed secured financial products to investigate and retrieve statistical reports to detect Fraud Detection of credit/debit cards accounts and payment fraud schemes. These applications are two kinds of products: Merchant and Credit systems. Also, developed a web based application product that helps the user to review the transactions of accounts/merchants and able to perform several actions based on the analysis and developed a WebAdmin security application that is used to create Users, Roles, Privileges and deploy rules etc.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Object analysis, design and documentation (OOAD) of the application model using UML.  • Involved in development of the application using Spring Web MVC and other components of the Spring Framework, the controller being Spring Core (Dispatcher Servlet). Also, implemented Dependency Injection using the Spring framework  • Designed and developed interactive static HTML screens as screen level prototype, JavaScript for client side validation and used Cascading Style Sheet (CSS).  • Developed JSP custom tags and used JSTL for reusability.  • Used Spring Web component for support of web utilities.  • Used AJAX to support dynamic page element rendering to enhance user experience.  • Involved in component development and used design patterns such as Singleton, Factory and Data Access Object (DAO) in the implementation of the application. Used Spring Context for EJB Support and Spring DAO for enhanced JDBC and DAO support.  • Used Spring ORM component for Hibernate support for manipulating data for Oracle 10g.  • Involved in creating the Hibernate POJO Objects and mapped using Hibernate Annotations.  • Used Hibernate, object/relational-mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with a SQL-based schema.  • Wrote service methods and SQL queries, PL/SQL to interact with the Oracle DBMS.  • Used Eclipse IDE for development, configured and deployed the application on to WebSphere using Maven, version control by SVN and tested using JUnit.  • Involved in writing the code using Multi-threading and extensively used Collections during the development.  • Involved in the configuration management using SVN and Jenkins.  • Developed various test cases and performed unit testing using JUnit.    Environment: J2EE 1.4, Java 1.5, JSP 2.0, Servlets 2.4, EJB 2.0, Struts 2.0, JDBC 2.0, WebSphere, Eclipse 3.1, Hibernate 3.0, Spring 2.5, Log4J, JUnit, Putty, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, UML, SVN, Jenkins. Java Developer Regions Bank - Birmingham, AL October 2010 to March 2012 Project: Commercial Electronic Account General Ledger System  Commercial Electronic Account General Ledger System, which is a web-deployed n-tier ecommerce application that allows their corporate clients to access info online and with an efficient means of managing corporate credit cards transactions at minimal cost. Customer relation manager issues the credit cards to the companies. The program administrator of the company will administer each card program. Administrator creates user profile, Account setup system, cost defaults and Authorization controls. The program administrator can create, edit and delete the corporate cards. The customer relation manager can manage different companies. It has administrator to issue the cards to the companies.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in entire cycle of design and development.  • Written design documents which consists workflow UML diagrams.  • Involved in implementation of Service oriented architecture (SOA)  • Involved in optimization and implementation of SQL mapping files using Hibernate frameworks.  • Developed Stateless Session Beans(EJBs) for exposing the methods as Web Services.  • Used Struts framework to implement the MVC architecture.  • Involved in Agile development process.  • Implemented Mock screens for application products during design process.  • Research and study of different kinds of configuration management tools like Cruise Control, Hudson etc.  • Worked on DataPump export process of moving/retrieve of sample real time data from Production to Development for testing etc.  • Used different tools (DatabaseSpy) to compare the schemas from different databases and correct the tables or schema structures.  • Used SVN (Subversion) as version control for maintaining files and documents.  • Wrote SQL, PL/SQL Stored procedures, triggers, views.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP AJAX, EJB, Struts, Spring, Web Services, Apache Tomcat 6+, JDBC 2, RAD, Java Beans, Ant 1.7, XML, HTML, JSTL, Java Script, Hibernate, SQL, Oracle 10g. Software Developer CMC Limited - IN June 2009 to September 2010 Punjab National Bank is the customer of TCS-CMC. Integrated Banking System is a Java/J2EE based custom developed user-friendly package. It performs effective processing and maintenance of all front and back office functions. Front Office activities include accounts, daily cash and transfer transactions, check book issues and maintenance of inward and outward clearance. Back Office activities include end of day process, month end process, quarterly and half-yearly processes. The process consists of cash and transfer book, sectional and main daybook, general ledger and abstract. Account module includes opening, closing and transfer of accounts. This module contains details of account holder, introducer, minor, nominee, joint holder, NRI information.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Development and Analysis of this Enquiry module.  • Prepared and documented Use Case Specification, Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, and Collaboration Diagrams UML.  • Along with the documentation, also worked on Asynchronous / Synchronous communication patterns.  • Worked on different tools such as Component, SOA Composite and OBER.  • Developed Oracle SOA services in an Agile development environment, Considering the SOA Governance & Best Practices - for managing business assets such as WSDL, XSD's and Process.  • Worked on SOA Design Patterns for building middleware systems.  • Worked on a multi-tier web based environment using J2EE technologies: JSP, EJB and Java Servlets.  • Developed components using Session Beans.  • Developed JSP and Servlets  • Developed the business logic using EJB  • Developed the Internationalization to the Application  • Validating the views using validator plug-in in Struts Frame Work  • Designed and coded JSP for presentation layer.  • Developed Java Beans for business logic required by the JSP's.  • Developed WebPages using XML.  • Used JDBC Thin Driver extensively for invoking complex query on database.  • Developed Test Plans using JUnit.  • Responsible for Deploying, Implementing the application at Client site using Ant build tool  • Wrote reusable functions for xml transformation in Java Server Pages.  • Designed the solutions for a top existing component and within the constraints particularly specified by the project.  • Development and Analysis of the Client Data Bank module of the Life Insurance product.    Environment: JDK1.4, JDBC 3.0, HTML 4.0, EJB's, Servlets 2.0, JSP's, XML 1.0, JUnit 3.4, Struts 1.1, Ant 1.6, JavaBeans, Oracle Service Bus, Oracle 9i, Oracle SOA Suite 11g, HP-Unix, Win98/ 2000, WebLogic 8.0, Eclipse 3.3. Education Bachelors in Computer science and Engineering JNTU Skills HTML (8 years), JAVA (8 years), JSP (8 years), UML (8 years), AJAX (7 years), Java 1.6, JSP, Spring 3.0, Design Patterns, EJB , XML, Angular2, SQL, PL/SQL Developer, JAX-WS, WSDL, soapUI, Hibernate, Web Sphere 8.5, tc Server, Maven, Jenkins, Trac, SVN, Tortoise SVN, Checkstyle, AJAX, jQuery, RSA, JUnit, UML, Log4j , Web services, SOAP, XSLT, ehCache, BigFix , IBM License Metric Tool, HP Service Manager. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Languages: Java, UML, XML, SQL and PL/SQL.  Distributed Technologies: Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JNDI, LDAP, JTA, JPA, RMI, JMS, and JSF.  Scripting: HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, ember.js, DHTML, XML, and XSL/XSLT  Frameworks: Spring 4.0/3.2.5/3.1/2.5, Hibernate 4.1.9/3.5.0/3.0/2.0, Struts, IBM PureQuery and JSF  Web Services: JAX-WS, JAX-B, JAX-RPC, Apache CXF, WSDL, UDDI, SOAP  Application/Web Servers: IBM WebSphere 8.5/8.0/7.0/6.1, Weblogic 11g/10/9/8/7, Apache Tomcat, tc Server, JBOSS 4.0.  RDBMS/Databases: Oracle9i/10g/11g, DB2, PostgreSQL and MS-SQL Server  Tools: RAD, RSA, Eclipse, Rational Rose, JDeveloper, NetBeans, RAD/WSAD, RSA, Spring Tool Suite, Jdeveloper and InteliJ, Toad, SQL Developer, Hp Service Manager, IBM License Metric Tool, IBM BigFix.  Operating Systems: Windows2003, UNIX, Linux  Build Tools: ANT, Maven, Jenkins, Hudson  Unit Testing Tools: Junit3/4  Version Control Tools: Subversion, CVS, Tortoise SVN, Subclipse