Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer Certified (full stack) Deerfield, IL Oracle certified Professional Java SE 8 Programmer (OCP JP)  Over 8 years as Java/JEE development and software design.  Over 4 years of professional experience in the USA.  Over 12 years as the Object-Oriented Analysis Design and software design ( Java, IBM Lotus, C#).  More than 15 years experience in Information Technology.  Team player with demonstrated experience.  Extensive hands on experience in all aspects of the software development.  Able to interpret business requirements and programming specifications to write Java programs that solve business needs. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer AAA - Phoenix, AZ April 2018 to July 2019 About project:  Project for AAA. This project has under the hood have list microservices on the Java 8 and SpringBoot, on the front side we had React.Js, JavaScript, HTMS, CSS.    My contribution to the project:   • Utilized user stories.  • Developed RestControllers, Components, Services, Repositories, SQL’s, Microservices.  • Pivotal Cloud Foundry  • Developed RestFul web services (JSON).  • JWT  • Fixed defects.  • Developed Unit tests (mockMVC, used Reflection for private methods).  • Developed front end components.  • HTML, CSS  • React.js    Project properties:  • Agile methodology  • CI/CD  • Test Driven Development  • TDD  • pair programming  • Sprint - 2 weeks  • Software development life-cycle, including testing    Achievements:  I worked in the Scrum team on the few microservices and few React components, i developed few microservices from scratch (Java8, SpringBoot, PCF), fixed React components, changed and added new sections to the React components. I worked on that project as Java developer or Tech lead on the agile environment. Receive user story from scrum master, implement user story on the Java 8, spring boot, microservices, cloud, deliver code to the git, working with pull requests. I leaded 5 guys from offshore team.    Technologies + Environment: Java8, RestFul Web Services, Spring Boot, Spring MVC 5.0.4, TomCat Embedded, IntelliJ IDEA, Jenkins, Jira, MS SQL, Splunk. Java/J2EE Developer ARRIS - Santa Clara, CA October 2017 to March 2018 About project:  Project for Arris system.    My contribution to the project:   Developing for distributed Web-based, n-tier systems  Developing for High performance scalable web applications with Java   Developing Mock tests  Developing RestFul Web Services  Developed test with Mockito/Junit  Developing front side  Developing web pages with Datatables lib  Developing JSON requests to Java back end  Developing JavaScript for pages  Project properties:  Agile methodology  Test Driven Development  Sprint - 2 weeks  Software development life-cycle, including testing    Achievements:  Developed few components for Arris system.    Technologies + Environment: JEE7, Java 8, Core Java, RestFul web services, Atlassian.Jira, Spring 4, Junit 4, My SQL 5.6, Activeobjects, JSON, log4j, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Datatables. Java Developer AT&T - San Ramon, CA July 2016 to August 2017 https://www.att.com/  About project:  Huge project for changing and developing AT&T system.    My contribution to the project:  Developing for large distributed Web-based, n-tier systems  Developing for High performance scalable web applications with Java  Developing code for User Stories   Developing Service operations (Nokia model and overlay) for User story.   Developing Mock tests  Fixing bugs in servlets  Developing JSP pages  Developing XML and Web Services  Developing for Oracle SOA (Application Layer)  Checked and fixed defects. (Production, Preproduction)   Installed and adjusted WebLogic, JBoss and WebSphere.   Developing and changing (improve security Java code on project).    Project properties:  • Agile methodology  • Sprint - 3 weeks  • Scrum team - 5 developers  • Software development life-cycle, including testing    Achievements:  Developed few components for AT&T system.    Technologies + Environment: JEE7, EJB3, Hibernate, Oracle Linux, JBoss, Weblogic, WebSphere, Oracle DB, Oracle SOA, ODSI, OSB, JDeveloper, Eclipse, JBoss developer Studio, Linux, Caching Technology. Lead Java developer Energy Squad Hub inc - Sacramento, CA April 2016 to July 2016 http://www.energysquadhub.com/  About project:  The development of highly loaded system to assess the value of work Home Performance and solar energy.    My contribution to the project:  • Developing architect of application.  • Developing describe of application.  • Developing tier EJB Stateless to receive data from web pages.  • Developing tier EJB for handle data.  • Developing transferring data into DB.  • Developing tier UI forms with JavaScript + JSF + PrimeFaces.    Achievements:  All components was developed by me.    Technologies + Environment: JEE7, EJB3, Hibernate, Oracle Linux 6, GlassFish4, Oracle DB, Ant, Git, JIRA, NetBeans 8. Lead Java developer Sacramento, CA January 2015 to March 2016 About project:  Develop library for receive data from web pages as http url connection input stream and showing data as RestFul service.    My contribution to the project:  • Developed architect of application.  • Developed parser for web pages.  • Developed tier EJB Stateless to receive data from web pages.  • Developed tier EJB for handle data.  • Developed Entity + Manage for Hibernate  • Developed tier of RestFul Webservices.    Achievements:  During my work on the project was developed all components. Project was finished successfully.    Technologies + Environment: JEE7, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, EJB3, Ubuntu, GlassFish4, ANT, Subversion, NetBeans 8. Java developer Digital Order - Moscow, RU January 2013 to December 2014 Russia    About the project:  This company develops software for slots machines. The company is the specialized onto Java technologies. On this project was developed software for lottery.  The system includes a main application server stores data on all tickets sold and the data on prizes that will be in the lottery machines, local server is installed on the server distributors lottery, application server located on slot machines. Communication between the main application server and the local servers was carried out over VPN channels using Restful web service.  On this project, I was the head of the module. In our module, we have developed an application server for a slot machine, receiving data from the rolls, socket between the slot machine and the local server.    My contribution to the project:  • Broadcasted data in Java classes for further processing their server slot machine.  • Developed a socket between the application server of the gaming machine and the local server.  • Developed 8 components to exchange data through socket.  • Developed a set of EJB Stateful that catered for client and a set of EJB Stateless for data layer.  • Developed a management panel on JSF which also handles emergency situations (power outage, network unavailability etc.)  • Developed Integrated data layer with MySQL DB and used JPA + Facade EJB.  • Wrote the Restful web service to transfer data from the application server slot machines on the system display (system display have written on flash, other programmers).  • Installed and configured Glassfish server to install the application on the gaming machine.    Achievement:  I have developed an application server slot machine successfully integrated into the overall project and delivered to the customer at the time and with great labor savings.    Technologies + Environment: JEE 7, JSF, HTML, JPA , POJO, JNDI, Restful Web service, Maven, Glassfish 4, NetBeans 8, Ubuntu, IBM DB2. Java developer www.otr.ru - Moscow, RU October 2011 to January 2013 Organizational and technological solutions,  Moscow, Russia, www.otr.ru    About project:  It is a large commercial company to execute orders of banks included in the Top 10 in Russia.  The project was to develop systems of business processes of income distribution on plastic cards. On a project designed to 7 Business Process Oracle SOA Suite and about 100 service provides data for processes. Process to communicate with Oracle DB 11g through EJB3. The user interface has been written using the JSF 2.0.    My contribution to the project:  • Moved to build the project TeamCity 8  • Set up multiple builds the project, in part or completely. Complete assembly and warm lasted about 40 minutes.  • Refactored existing ANT scripts. Volume improvements amounted to about 70%. I did build SOA Suit cyclic processes and services, where data required for the assembly process I received from the file. This made it possible to collect not all processes after each change, and only the necessary.  • Prepared weekly deliveries modified software in the bank. Provided tech support for customers.  • Developed a layer of custom forms. When designing I used ADF.  • Bugs fixed in EJB.  • Corrected over 300 errors and comments on the system (according to Jira).    Achievements:  During my work on the project all the supplies were sent on time. I translated about 20 EJB with @Stateful to @Stateless that fixed memory leaks and speed up to 20%.    Technologies + Environment: JEE5, HTML, CSS, EJB3, Oracle linux 5, WebLogic 11, Oracle DB 11, ANT, Subversion, JIRA, Jdeveloper 11, Oracle SOA Suit, Web Service. Java developer www.eos.ru - Moscow, RU April 2008 to October 2011 Electricity office systems  Moscow, Russia, www.eos.ru    About project:  Electronic Office Systems is a company producing electronic document management system for government agencies and large banks.  Project was an expansion of the electronic document management system. This system handles the entire lifecycle of workflow. Creating a document number assigned in accordance with the criteria (requirements) of the organization, the transfer of the document within the organization, coordination of the documents signing of the document, the exchange of documents between organizations in the delivery of the document archive storage of data on the location of a paper document in the warehouse. The system works with Oracle DB or MS SQL DB. Documents between organizations transmitted via secure channels. The system is connected via the Rest services to these channels.    My contribution to the project:  • Developed integration with external systems for the banking sector. The system serves GlassFish Web Server.  • Developed 12 Restful services to integrate the system with an entry point into the tire data delivery. Services were given and received information about the list of documents on request, issued a specific document on request, gave a description of the document, the terms of execution of a particular document, and other data.  • Developed an intermediate adjusting layer through which the working Web Service. Layer was developed on EJB3, Managed Beans, JSF. The main objective was to control the issuance of layer data and compute (close) the issue of data on the document with a special mark.  • Translated the module Web Services on JRockit; system with OS Windows on Oracle Linux 5.    Achievements:  The result was a system integration which allows documents to be shared between banks. Delivery time the documents through the system is 40% less than other shipping methods. System middleware allowed for filtering outgoing documents.    Technologies + Environment: JEE 7, JSF, HTML, EJB3, JPA, POJO, JNDI, Restful Web service, ANT, Subversion, Oracle Glassfish, NetBeans, Windows. Software developer lukoil.ru - Moscow, RU October 2002 to April 2008 LUKOIL Moscow, Russia, lukoil.ru    About project:  In department developed Document Workflow system for company.    My contribution to the project:  • Compiled a list of demands for changes in the system.  • Prepared and agreed description includes a list of screens.  • Developed two system: "antitrust disputes" and "Claims and claims".  • Introduction changes into developed systems for users requests.  • Accompaniment developed systems.    Achievement: The project was internal and terms have not been clearly established, as changes in the system at the request of users, I brought more than a tree years. The project was successfully completed within budget. Development and testing of external performers attracted, it gave us great savings.  I myself collect requirements and myself developed the program so I can better understand what users want.    Technologies + Environment: IBM Lotus Domino, Notes. Education MS in Mathematics in Mathematics and System Programming Moscow State University - Moscow, RU 2005 State University of land use planing - Moscow, RU 2003 Skills J2EE (9 years), Java (9 years), Java 8 (5 years), PCF (2 years), Microservices (2 years), Spring (5 years), SpringBoot (3 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/sergey-volchenkov-697322b5/ Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate, Java SE 8 Programmer January 2018 to Present https://www.youracclaim.com/badges/704a352f-b46f-46df-970d-fc0866517614/linked_in_profile Additional Information Technical skills    Languages: proficient in Java.  Technologies: JEE, SOA, EJB3, RestFul web services, JSF RichFaces, JPA Hibernate, JNDI, Servlets, Swing, SQL, JDBC, JSTL, Ajax, HTML, CSS, Maven, Git, IBM Lotus-script, @-formula.  Databases: Oracle, MySQL, MS SQL Server.  Web Servers: Weblogic 11&12, WebSphere, Glassfish 4, JBoss.  IDE: Netbeans 8, Jdeveloper, IBM Rational Application Developer, Eclipse, JBossstudio.  Development tools: Putty, WinCSP, Oracle SQL Developer 4, MySQL WorkBench, ANT, Subversion, Maven, Git, SoupUI, TortoiseSVN, JIRA, TeamCity, JUnit 4.  Operating Systems: Windows, Mac, Oracle Linux.