Software Engineer Software Engineer Senior Mulesoft Developer/Solution Architect - Miracle Software Systems Woodlandhills, CA Having over all 14+ years of IT experience in which 7+ years of experience in Java and J2EE technologies and 7+ years of experience in ESB/SOA Technologies like OSB(Oracle Service Bus),IIB(IBM Integration Bus/WMB),IBM Data power. Also having 4+ years of experience in Mule soft. Having 4+years of experience as a Technical Lead and 2+ years of experience in Solution Designing.  • Having 11+ years of experience in Farmers Insurance Domain for both Auto and Specialty Lines of Business.  • Having 7+ years of onsite experience in USA.  • Involved in 5 major full life cycles of end-to-end project implementations.  • Having good working experience in preparing the Design documents and Architecture documents.  • Having good working experience with various SOA/Middle war/Integration technologies like Data Power, IBM WebSphere MQ, IBM Message Broker (IIB), Oracle Service Bus and MuleSoft.  • Having past working experience in Struts Framework, Spring MVC Framework and JSF framework.  • Having past working experience on ORM tools like Open JPA ( Java Persistence API) and Hibernate.  • Having good working experience in Java web services, worked on both client side and server side components by using JAX-RPC/JAX-WS and JAX-RS (Restful) Web Services.  • Having little experience in the development of single page applications by using MEAN stack (MongoDB a NoSQL data base, Express.js, AngularJS and Node.js) used in POC.  • Having good working experience on Micro Services by using spring boot and API management design and development.  • Having good working experience on Docker containers and setup and deployment of sprint boot applications.  • Having good working experience on multiple integrations patterns like worked on MQ based Pub sub pattern and Salesforce Integration with Mule connector and OKTA integration and DocuSign Integration and Mule Batch processor.  • Having good working experience on various load balancers like Nginx server and HAProxy server and F5 load balancers and working experience on AWS cloud EC2 instance setup.  • Having good working experience in preparing the Use Case Documents, Field Catalog Documents and Service Contract Documents.  • Having good working experience in building the project structure and generating the Architecture components for the development team.  • Having good working experience in Building the Development Environment setup (Workspace) for the development team.  • Having good working experience in various application servers like IBM WebSphere Application Server, BEA Web logic, Sun Glass fish and Apache Tomcat.  • Having experience with maven projects and continuous integration with Jenkins.  • Having good working experience in various Development tools like RAD (Rational Application Developer), WSAD (WebSphere Application Developer), Eclipse, MyEclipse, IntelliJ and AnyPointStudio platform.  • Having good working experience in HTML, Java Script, JQuery XML, XSD, XPath, XQuery and XSLT.  • Having knowledge on JBoss application server and Net Beans IDE used for working on the POC work for analysis on integration with JMS and Message Driven Beans.  • Having good working experience in various data base concepts like DB2,Oracle, SQL Server,PostGres,Mongo DB and MySQL  • Having good working experience in various Source Configuration Management tools like GitHub,CCRC (Clear Case Remote Client) ,RTC (Rational Team Concert) ,CVS (Concurrent version System) and SVN (Sub Version).  • Having work experience in writing the Unit test cases and developing the Junit Test cases. And Munit test cases by using mule.  • Having good working experience in build scripts by using Ant xml configurations for building the EAR/WAR and FTP (uploading them) to the Deployment machine.  • Having good working experience in the Performance monitoring tools like Tivoli and Heap analysis worked on IBM Heap Analyzer for resolving the memory leak issues happened in production.  • Having experience in analyzing and resolving the application performance issues.  • Having good working experience in production support in performing the initial high level analysis for identifying the production issues.  • Having good experience in agile methodology and water fall modal and I am a good full stack java developer.  • Steep learning curve and strong communication skills with the ability to easily adapt to new technologies and oversee a project from conceptual to development phases successfully.  • Effective team player with focused attention on the individual contribution.  • Excellent working and leading skills on onsite and offshore model. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Software Engineer Farmers Insurance - Woodland Hills, CA May 2016 to Present Working  Project: FMG Shared Services/Enterprise Integration Services  Work Location: Woodland Hills-California  Role: Software Engineer  Team size: 12    Description:  FMG Shared Services is the project which will handles all the farmers SOA Enterprise Integration Services.  As part of this project we have the Common shared services system called Enterprise Integration System which was built by using various middle ware technologies which includes Oracle Service Bus, IBM Data Power and IBM Integration Bus. We have also started with MuleSoft in Farmers to replace the services implemented by Data power.    This project will acts as middle ware system for the various applications in farmers to communicate by using SOA endpoint urls.  As part of this EIS system we have created multiple OSB projects for different applications and for each project we have created proxy services and Business services and by using the proxy service endpoint urls the consumer systems will send the service required data and which will send to the Business service where the data will be sent to the provider service system. We have also created Multiprotocol Gateways and WSProxy services and XML firewalls for the external applications to interact with farmers systems. We have also created the distributed MQ pub sub clustering system which will handle different notifications published by provider system to send notifications to the consuming systems.    Technology Stack:  Oracle Service Bus used to create Proxy and Business services with required transformation between the different data models.  IBM Data Power used to create Multiple Gateway Protocols, Web service Proxy services and XML Firewall's.  IBM Integration Bus used for MQ Pub Sub notifications.  MuleSoft used for creating the RAML based rest services and end goal is to replace the data power system with this system. MIRACLE SOFTWARE SYSTEMS,INC - Novi, MI March 2016 to Present working. Senior Developer Farmers Insurance - Los Angeles, CA December 2014 to March 2016 Team size: 8    Description:  MDM project is the Master Data Management System which is an IBM product to maintain golden copy of the customer data. The goal of this project is to bring all the customers data under different line of business systems in Farmers Insurance group to one centralized system.    Technology Stack:  To achieve the requirements of this project we have used OSB Proxy Services for creating the Provider Web Services and we have used IBM Data Power implementation of Multi-Protocol Gateway services for consuming systems to send/receive the data in JSON format. We have also used Data Power Multiple gate way service for one of the system to send pipe delimited data to MDM system. Oracle Service Bus we have used for hosting the web services and IBM Integration Bus used for publishing the updates to the consuming systems. NEOBYTES LLC - Los Angeles, CA January 2012 to March 2016 Senior Developer Foremost Insurance - Grand Rapids, MI August 2013 to November 2014 Team size: 7    Description: DMS project is initiated by farmers insurance to support for the customer based applications both for web and mobile applications. Before this application all the specialty applications are agent based and to compete with the present marketing farmers took a decision to go for the customer based applications. As part of this initiation we have started working on the development of shared services by using the OSB and Data Power. Mainly we have used OSB for the data transformation and service analytics and to provide the request response xmls for the production issues.    Technology Stack: Java and J2EE with Spring Web MVC and Hibernate. We have used the IBM DB2 as the Data base system. We have used JAX-WS web services for interacting with Next Star web services. We have also used the JAX-RS (Rest) web services for providing the AARP services access to the RWD Project. Development environment as RAD with WebSphere Application Server. Senior Developer Foremost Insurance - Grand Rapids, MI January 2013 to July 2013 Project: AARP (American Association of Retired Persons)  Work Location: Grand Rapids-Michigan  Role: Senior Developer  Team size: 9    Description: AARP project is upgraded with the new technology stack by using the Next Star services. For providing the online customer Quote for MC product. Before up gradation the AARP application was in Asp .Net application and which just capture the user information and sends those details in xml format via email. Later the tech support people will use the submitted xml for doing quote in the Cogen by manual data entry from the received xml and sending back an email to the AARP customer with the Quote premium details.    Technology Stack: Java and J2EE with Spring Web MVC and Hibernate. We have used the IBM DB2 as the Data base system. We have used JAX-WS web services for interacting with Next Star web services. We have also used the JAX-RS (Rest) web services for providing the AARP services access to the RWD Project. Development environment as RAD with WebSphere Application Server. Foremost Insurance July 2010 to December 2012 Project: Next Star (New System for Foremost Star Application)  Work Location: Grand Rapids-Michigan (From Jan 2012 before I was working from offshore Bangalore India)  Role: Senior Developer  Team size: 25    Description: Next Star project is the New System designed from the existing legacy application called Foremost Star application. This project will be used for specialty lines of business for performing multiple transactions like Quote/New Business/Endorsement/Renewal/Cancellation and Reinstatement transactions. Current system only supports for online Quote and New Business where as the new system supports of additional sub sequent transactions.    Technology Stack: Java and J2EE with JSF Framework. Additionally we have used EJB as the Business Layer implementation with the combination of ORM tool JPA for interacting with the Data base. We have used the DB2 Data base system, Eclipse Helios with Glass Fish Application server as the development environment and RAD with WebSphere Application Server as the production environment. IBM Rational Team Concert application tool for Project life cycle handling we have followed the Agile methodology. NEOBYTES LLC - Bengaluru, Karnataka July 2008 to January 2012 Address: # 50, 1st Main Road, 9th Cross, 3rd Phase, J.P.Nagar, Bangalore - 560 078 India.  Duration: 7/21/2008 to 1/13/2012. Senior Developer Farmers Insurance - Bengaluru, Karnataka January 2010 to July 2010 Team size: 12    Description: IRP application explains the various steps that will be followed during the life cycle of the calculating the premiums for existing projects of the FARMERS INSURANCE Group.  This is newly introduced application which will reduce the disadvantages that will be taken as part of the manual process of viewing the rating factors and updating the rating factors and assigning the modified rating factors to the concerned project. So to provide the cost effective and more performance and better quality the IRP application got invented.    Technology Stack: Java and J2EE with Struts Framework(JSP/JSTL/AJAX).Additionally we have used Spring JDBC template for interacting with the Data base. We have used the DB2 Data base system for saving the modified rating factors to the DB. RAD with WebSphere Application Server as the development environment. Java Developer Farmers Insurance - Bengaluru, Karnataka July 2008 to December 2009 Team size: 20    Description: Express is the one of the Insurance project which will provide the better platform for all the agents to make the new policies .This includes different lines of businesses (Auto, Home, VIP Life, VIP Umbrella, VIP Addl.Lines).Different line of businesses deals with the different type of policies.    Technology Stack: Java and J2EE with eAgent Framework(JSP/JSTL/AJAX).RAD with WebSphere Application Server as the development environment. Java Developer Citi Bank - Bengaluru, Karnataka July 2007 to July 2008 Team size: 10    Description: As part of a continued commitment to improve functionality and ensure an integrated approach for Operational Risk, GWM Independent Risk is currently working on the global roll out of the CPB Operational Risk Event Approval System, (OREAS). The system will be used globally by all CPB regions initially and may eventually be used elsewhere in GWM.    Technology Stack: Java and J2EE with Struts Framework (JSP/JSTL/Oracle JDBC/EJB).Eclipse with Web Logic Application Server as the development environment. CVS as the source management system. Editor website Government of Netherlands - Bengaluru, Karnataka July 2005 to May 2007 Project: E-Municipality  Work Location: Bangalore-India  Role: Java Learner  Team size: 5    Description: This application is aimed at offering a web based digital storefront for Municipal Transactions. This system contains three major modules,  • Application website  • Editor website.  • Management Information Module (MIM)    Customer can access Application website and find the information about the products and order them on-line through forms. The Editor Website allows an Editor to use a web based environment to edit and Create Products, edit and create Forms and manage Users. MIM gives the site analysis report on the basis of products purchasing and Status report of the site.    Technology Stack: Java Servlets and JSP with Eclipse and Tomcat Web Server as the development environment. Aspro Technologies PVT Ltd - Bengaluru, Karnataka April 2005 to May 2007 Education MASTER OF SCIENCES IN INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY in M.SC-IT INFYSYS ACADEMY, KUVEMPU UNIVERSITY - Bengaluru, Karnataka March 2008 to April 2009 B.SC in BACHELORE OF SCIENCES HINDU COLLEGE, ACHARYA NAGARJUNA UNIVERSITY - Guntur, Andhra Pradesh March 2002 to April 2005 Skills Bea, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jndi, Jni, jquery, Jsf, Jsp, Servlets, Struts, Wsad, Html, Node.js, Xml, Soa, Web logic, Websphere, OSB-Oracle Service Bus (5 years), Data Power (3 years), IIB-IBM Integration Bus (4 years), MuleSoft (5 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Web Technologies: Java, J2EE (Servlets, JSP, EJB, JPA and Hibernate), JNDI,JNI  Frameworks: Struts framework, Spring framework and JSF framework  SOA Technologies: Data Power, IBM Integration Bus, Oracle Service Bus and MuleSoft.  Web Essentials: Html, XML, JQuery Java Script, MEAN Stack Express.js, AngularJS, Node.JS  Functional Areas: Insurance Domain and Banking Domain  Application Servers: IBM WebSphere, Glassfish and Bea Web Logic  Development Tools: RAD, WSAD, IntelliJ, MyEclipse and AnyPointStudio Platform  Databases: DB2, Oracle, SQL server, MySQL and MongoDB NoSQL Data base  Operating Systems: Windows family and Linux.