UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer - AT&T Services Dallas, TX ? Around 8+ years of professional experience in all phases of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle) Including requirements analysis, applications design, development, Integration, maintenance, Installation, Implementation and testing of various client/server, N-tier and web applications.  ? Expertise in designing and developing Web applications using HTML, DHTML, CSS, XML, JSON, JavaScript, AJAX, Angular.js, Backbone.js, TypeScript, ES6, Redux, React, Bootstrap.  ? Experience working on scalable environment using Agile/SCRUM methodologies.  ? Excellent experience in GitHub and Tortoise SVN for source code management and for version control.  ? Experience working on JIRA which is managing project requirements and tasks, tracking issues.  ? Experience working on Source Tree, Stash, Confluence and Bamboo applications powered by Atlassian.  ? Designed and developed application using Core Java, J2EE (JSP, Servlets), spring and Oracle.  ? Handled operations and maintenance support for AWS cloud resources which includes launching, maintaining and troubleshooting EC2 instances, S3 buckets, Virtual Private Clouds (VPC), Elastic Load Balancers (ELB) and Relational Database Services (RDS).  ? Experience in creating JSON scripts for Cloud Formation based on requirements and launch stacks.  ? Created AWS Security Groups for deploying and configuring AWS EC2 instances.  ? Developed single page applications using Angular 2, Angular 4, typescript, web pack and grunt.  ? Hands on Experience on Angular 2 and Angular 4 technology for one complete project in rebasing the UI of the application.Performed configuration, deployment and support of cloud services including Amazon Web Services.  ? Strong knowledge of OOP (Object Oriented Programming) and applying OO principles in full Software Development Life Cycle  ? Experience in cross browser and cross-device compatibility check and thoroughly performed unit testing using Jasmine, Mocha, JUnit and Karma.  ? Expertise in Java, Multithreading, Exception Handling, Struts 2.0, Spring, Spring MVC Hibernate, RESTAPI, Enterprise java Beans, JDBC Hands on experience in DBMS like Oracle, Node.js, MySql, MS-Sql, Toad, Crud, Postrage Sql.  ? Experienced in web/application servers like Apache Tomcat, WebSphere, JBoss and Weblogic  ? Set up, configured, and maintained multiple web/application servers like IBM Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat and BEA Weblogic. Experienced in Managing build files using ANT and logging using Log4j.  ? Experienced in writing test-cases in Java environment using JUnit.  ? Experienced in using Operating Systems like Windows, Linux, UNIX, AIX and UNIX Shell Script.  ? Sequence, class and database diagrams are made using the UML design tool and RAD.  ? Experienced of Databases that involve writing SQL queries, Views, Triggers and Stored Procedures.  ? Experience on RUP, Agile/Scrum and Extreme Programming (Test Driven development, Pair Programming, Code Reviews).  ? Possess excellent communication skills along with dedication, and commitment for work  ? Quick learner, possess problem solving skills, and strong team player Work Experience UI Developer AT&T Services - Austin, TX May 2016 to Present Description: AT&T Inc. is an American multinational conglomerate holding company. It is the world's largest telecommunications company, the second largest provider of mobile telephone services, and the largest provider of fixed telephone services in the United States via AT&T Communications. I am working on a Point of Sale system called APEX for fulfilling business needs for retail organizations.    Responsibilities:  ? Working as a Node.js developer, Expert knowledge of modern back-end JavaScript (Node.js), front-end JavaScript, Angular 2.0, HTML, & CSS, including libraries and frameworks.  ? Worked on Node.js Middleware framework like Express.js and Hapi.js and Yoemon, essentially developed microservices and serve them through middleware. Served any Client side libraries through microservice.  ? Worked on NPM packages and published them to nexus repositories, Developed Gulp, grunt task runner or application and involved in to write Unit test cases.  ? Essentially working to develop restful Apis and invoke Soap Apis in Express.js and Hapijs, validating Apis with swagger.  ? Developed web application using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, Angular2/4/5, NodeJS, AJAX, and JSON.  ? Enhanced application performance by Angular 5 Component based development in view of future Angular framework transitions.  ? Worked extensively on Angular 4/5 framework and had experience working with Ng-Modules, components, Observables, ng-router, AUTH-guards.  ? Working in custom created framework created extensively using JavaScript MVC and writing code that is modular and reusable  ? Co-ordinate with Design team to understand the requirements and specifications and provided support in designing using Adobe Photoshop  ? Migrating the Old single threaded POS into a Single page web-based application using Angular 4/5 framework as front end and Java as backend.  ? Developed single page web application using JavaScript framework Angular and Created multi custom directives by defining Angular 5 directives  ? Experience with Angular 5, creating custom directives, decorators, and services to interface with both restful and legacy network services also DOM applications.  ? Implemented Angular 5 Controllers to maintain each view data and Implemented Angular Service calls using Angular Factory.  ? Made strategies for Authentication, Authorization and log formats for AT&T standard internal components with OAuth and passport.js using secure gateway.  ? Make pluggable UI microservice for each platform which should solve the monolithic problem of seed generation and create Docker image and deploy them into kubernates using Angular.js 2.0.  ? Worked with Docker for containing microservices and write docker file, Jenkins for Automated Integration and deployment process and kubernates for deploying pods. And maintaining each pod on kubernates dashboard and load balancing.  ? Working on single client platform supported by around 9 other services, an internal API to connect them, and an external API for partners. It allows us to keep codebases smaller, optimize more specifically, and explore new technologies with isolation.  ? Developing Dockerfile for different end points and validate them through the docker-central to run the Jenkins job with given parameter and deploy job to the kubernates.  ? Working on AT&T plugin components like Authentication and Authorization, Cookie based Authentication and login, developed logging mechanism to dashboard to keep all logs for application.  ? Integration with CICD (Continuous integration and continuous Deployment) Process for all microservices and serve them to external innovations.  ? Support Client side liberaries like angular and database connection like mysql, Casandra, mongoDB and postgres through the Node base microservice and have them connected with Api calls.  ? Created Polymer.js , ES6 application to make UI by Dragging and Dropping the web components, where each component contains different microservice and make UI after combine all microservice together. Developed ES6 web components for the multiple uses in the UI.  ? We setup the development environment using Node.js, Npm, Gulp, Grunt, Bower, git.  ? Essentially worked on Message Routing and Kafka Broker implementation in node.js.    Environment:  JavaScript, DOJO, HTML, CSS, XML, XSLT, AJAX, JSP, JSON, Jquery, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, Node.js, React.js, ES6, TypeScript, Polymer.js, Docker, kubernates, Npm, Gulp, Grunt, Bower, Core Java, UNIX, Linux, Sybase, JDBC, Oracle, SQL, MySql, MsSql, Toad, CRUD, Eclipse, REST, Apache CXF, Clear Case, Tomcat, JUnit, JIRA, Maven, iText, Weblogic, SVN, UML, Agile. Sr. Java/UI Developer JP Morgan & Chase - Jersey City, NJ September 2014 to April 2016 Description: JP Morgan and Chase is a US multinational banking and financial services holding company headquartered in New York city. It is the largest bank in the United States. The chase brand is used for credit services in the United States and Canada. It is used by the investment banking, asset management, private banking and treasury divisions.    Responsibilities:  ? Working as a UI Developer, assisting my team in developing two different Web-based applications.  ? Extensively involved in front end screens using Java, HTML 5, JavaScript ES6, JQuery, JSON, CSS and Ajax.  ? Wrote advanced HTML 5, JavaScript and CSS to deliver cutting-edge user interfaces and components.  ? Used Bootstrap front-end framework for faster and easier web development with MySQL database, Node.js as the backend.  ? Designed and developed the application using Angular 2 framework along with HTML5, CSS3, Type Script, Java Script, Bootstrap, Node.js, NPM, and Mongo DB.  ? Moved existing AngularJS controllers and services to Angular 2 components for more responsive and less dependency. Enhanced legacy application by building new components in Angular 2 and typescript.  ? Developed single page applications using Angular 2, Typescript, web pack and grunt.  ? Writing controllers that are responsible for transferring control between components, routing and rendering views using Angular 2 framework.  ? Developed custom modules like app-routing module, pipes, and models to make the construct of the whole application more concise and understandable and avoid writing duplicated codes.  ? Developing custom HTML elements using angular. js 2.0 directives.  ? Used AngularJS as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  ? Worked with React JS to build bootstrap components for UI web objects. Linked with API data to view render virtual DOM dynamically.  ? Create, edit and maintain sites implementing responsive design & themes using front end development frameworks including Bootstrap, flexbox algorithm to make consistent page layout.  ? Extensively used Selectors in JQuery for updating content on DOM nodes.  ? Wrote code to fetch data from Web services using JQUERY AJAX via JSON response and updating the HTML pages.  ? Worked through cross browser compatibility issues with layout and styles for all new CSS that was implemented.  ? HTML5 and CSS3 latest tags are used to design the webpages and HTML local storage web applications are used to store data. Styling pages with CSS3.0 and developed JavaScript for user interfaces.  ? Used Eclipse IDE for designing, coding and developing applications.  ? Implemented JavaScript source code, embedded nested handling logic using JQuery event handlers and call back functions.  ? Extensive experience of Object Oriented JavaScript design pattern and JavaScript MVC Patterns Preferably Angular JS and React JS.  Environment:  Java, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, Struts, JMS, EJB, DOJO, JavaScript, GUI, Hibernate, HTML, CSS, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, Node.js, XML, Apache, DB2, Spring, Apache CXF, CRUD, SVN, Web services, GWT, Subversion, Maven, UML, Junit, ASP.Net, C/C++, C#. Sr. Web Application developer PNC BANK, NC July 2012 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Created User Interface Design using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, REST and AngularJS, Bootstrap. Implemented useful and elegant features and visualizations.  ? Closely worked with the customer scrum to build the internal web application which will be Responsible for all client side UI Validation and implementing Business logic based on user selection using JavaScript and AngularJS.  ? Created a custom, single-page Applications, responsive web application to replace a legacy line-of-business web application, developed using client side MVC Design using AngularJS front end framework.  ? Developed GUI using JavaScript, HTML/HTML5, DOM, AJAX, CSS3, CQ5 and AngularJS in ongoing projects.  ? Implemented different validation control on the web-pages using AngularJS.  ? Worked on ReactJs Virtual Dom and React views, rendering using components which contains additional components called custom HTML tags.  ? Built the Responsive UI screen for create new customer process, create bill to and ship to screens, customer search results page, customer dashboard page using Bootstrap.  ? Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and hence building type ahead feature for zip code, city and county look up using jQuery, AJAX.    Environment:  JAVA, JSP, Servlet, Spring, JavaScript, Hibernate, JQuery, Struts, Design Patterns, Agile, HTML, CSS, DOJO, XML, JMS, XML, Eclipse, Itext, Apache, Oracle ECM, Struts, Webservice, SOAP, ILOG, Web2.0, Oracle BPM, JSF, WSDL, Apache Axis2, Apache Tomcat Server, SOA, PL/SQL, Oracle10g, UML, Weblogic, Rational Rose, Junit. Java Programmer Cisco Systems - San Jose, CA May 2011 to June 2012 Cisco Systems, Inc. is an American multinational technology company headquartered in San Jose, California, that designs, manufactures, and sells networking equipment. Cisco is the worldwide leader in networking for the Internet. 85 percent of Internet traffic travel across Cisco's systems, and it supports, manages and operates business systems for various and major third parties.  Responsibilities:  ? Performed Java web application development using J2EE and Netbeans.  ? Created Various UML Diagrams e.g. Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams.  ? Responsible for the design and development of the framework. The system is designed using J2EE technologies based on MVC architecture. The Views are programmed using struts, JSP pages, Model is a combination of EJB's and Java classes and Controllers are Servlets.  ? Developed user interface using JSP JQuery, and AJAX to speed the application.  ? Writing the java script and designing the JSP GUI frame work.  ? Involved in developing EJB's for the business logic and deploying them in Apache tomcat.  ? Responsible for creating of Action classes, JSPs, Model classes.  ? Used business delegate to call EJB from struts action class.  ? Used JBoss application server to deploy application into Production environment  ? Extensive experience using framework APIs like Struts, Spring, iBatis and Hibernate  ? Used Java Messaging Services for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information.  ? Deployed Application to BEA weblogic server.  ? Involved in designing the user interfaces using JSP  ? Used JQuery to make the frontend components interact with the Javascript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  ? Extensively worked on spring's framework.  ? Used JDBC for database connectivity with MySQL Server.  ? Implement the presentation layer (GUI), based on open source framework, involving Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JSF, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and Beans.  ? Designed Interactive GUIs using Java Applets and Swing.  ? Developed Servlets and Worked extensively on Sql.  ? Worked with MySQL for MySQL, SQLYog and Workbench.  ? Implementation of Spring IOC container, Spring JDBC template, Spring Exception Strategy and AOP.  ? XML messages are used to communicate between web services that are written using SOAP and WSDL.  ? Created different database objects (Stored Procedures, Functions, and Triggers) for the backend MS SQL server.  ? Involved in debugging the product using Eclipse 3.6 and JIRA Bug Tracking.  ? Involved in creating unit testing of various layers using junit and created automated test scripts for integration testing using Selenium.  ? Created war files & deployed on Tomcat using ANT deployment tool.  ? Expertise in employing Water Fall Model and best practices for software development  ? Maintenance of data in different Oracle Databases and environments using TOAD.  ? Built CVS and XML file loaders and splitters for financial data  ? Used Clear Case for source Version Control.  ? Working Closely with EMC Documentum to implement Engineering Design Storage Repository and Project Document Management.  ? Tested with the Junit Test Cases for both Professional and Institutional Claims.  ? Coordinated with QA team to ensure the quality of application.    Environment:  Java, Servlet, EJB, Struts. JMS, JDBC, Hibernate, Spring, Java Script, AJAX, UML, Eclipse, Weblogic, SOAP, Selenium, JBoss, ANT, JQuery, NetBeans, JSP, EJB, WSDL, Toad, Water Fall Model, iBatis, EMC Documentum, web services, HTML, XML, MS SQL server2005, My SQL, CVS, JIRA, ClearQuest, Swing, Clearcase, Junit. Sr. Java Web Developer SYMETRA LIFE INSURANCE - Farmington, MI March 2010 to April 2011 Responsibilities:  ? Designed Interactive GUIs using Java Applets and Swing.  ? Implemented persistence layer using Hibernate that use the POJOs to represent the persistence database tables. These POJOs are serialized Java Classes that would not have the business processes.  ? J2EE to communicate legacy COBOL based mainframe implementations.  ? Designed and developed Message Flows and Message Sets and other service component to expose Mainframe applications to enterprise J2EE applications.  ? Wrote multithreaded programs to measure system performance  ? Worked on GUI internationalization using JSP and Core Java  ? Used Mercurial to keep track of versioning of the source code  ? Worked on bug fixing  ? Used JDBC APIs for database connectivity and data retrieval.  ? backend. Extensively used Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers in Microsoft SQL Server.  ? Worked on various client websites that used Struts 2 framework, Hibernate and OGNL  ? Wrote test cases using JUnit testing framework and configured applications on Weblogic Server  ? Involved in debugging the product using Eclipse 3.6 and JIRA Bug Tracking.  ? Involved in writing stored procedures, view, user-defined functions and triggers in SQL Server database for Reports module.  ? Implemented real-time patient prescription history verification system using C, Oracle PL/SQL on VMS platform.  ? Planning and applying latest Service Packs to different versions of SQL Server  ? Involved in Creation, Manipulation and Supporting the SQL Server Database.  ? Work with clients on their day to day interactions with CVS Caremark.  ? Developing a new Content Management System backed by subversion using java EE technologies.  ? Created Node.js middleware application server to encapsulate modern JS widget framework and control set.  ? Development of AJAX toolkit based applications using JSON.  ? Design and Developed using WebService using Apache CXF.  ? Extensively used Jquery , IBM Websphere Portal APIs for authentication and personalization features  ? Used Visual Source Safe for source control.  ? Manipulated data and performed data preparation using TSO, ISPF and SPF system utilities.  ? Developed and implemented Legacy system programs by using COBOL, DB2, CICS, JCL, JAVA and VSAM.  ? Wrote stored procedures in Oracle PL/SQL for data entry and retrieval.  ? Extracted and modified data from VSAM files for PDF reports.  ? Automate nightly batch processing and job alerts using REXX.  ? Responsible for migrating Websphere server from v6.1 to v8.0 and migrating IBM CICS Transaction.  ? Use FileAid datasets to validate backend results of test events.  ? Configuring and analyzing JCL to execute mainframe batch.  ? Actively involved in contributing to RFP and POC activities in IMS.  ? Used standard data access technologies like JDBC and ORM tool like Hibernate  ? Designed, implemented new website features and provided support, maintenance    Environment:  Core Java, JSP, JUnit, Mercurial, Eclipse, JIRA, JDBC, Strut, Hibernate, Visual Source Safe, Weblogic, Oracle, OGNL, Linux, MS SQL Server, COBOL, FileAid, REXX, ISPF, Mainframe, CICS, IMS, VSAM, JCL Sr. Java Developer IBM - New York, NY July 2009 to February 2010 Responsibilities:  ? The system was designed according to J2EE specifications. Servlets were used as a Front Controller gateway into the system. Helper classes were used to limit the business logic in the servlet. EJB was used to talk to the database and JSP along with HTML, XML were used to control the client view.  ? Designed and added new functionality extended existing application using J2EE,XML,Ajax, Servlets, JSP.  ? Studied the impact of the requirement and prepared the Requirement functional and technical documents.  ? Created different batch programs to clean up tables in DB2 database.  ? Extensively used Collections and Exceptions in batch program for database clean up.  ? Worked on UNIX shell scripting to run the JAR file created for batch program.  ? Used Struts framework in UI designing and validations.  ? Responsible for requirements gathering, designing, coding web applications using Ruby on Rails, JavaScripts, HTML, CSS and jQuery.  ? Backend development with PHP, MYSQL, BASH, LINUX, UNIX  ? Support Agile upgrade and participate in test cases.  ? Developed Action Classes, which acts as the controller in Struts framework.  ? Client side validations are done using JavaScript and server side validations are done using Struts validator framework.  ? Participated in the development of a global customer system by using C++, Oracle, and Rogue Wave C++ Libraries  ? Maintaining the C++ knowledge modules product information.  ? Used C++, Java, Servlets, JDBC, JSP and DAO for Coding/Implementation  ? AJAX forms are created for update operations.  ? Data was converted into JSON using JSP tags.  ? Enhanced the existing application to meet the business requirement.  ? Establishing JDBC connection using database connection pool.  ? Wrote complex SQL statements to retrieve data from the DB2 database.  ? Participated in the Production support and maintenance of the project.  ? Created new tables in DB2 database.  ? The application was developed using Eclipse on Windows XP. Deployed the application on Apache tomcat server on windows server.  ? Used ClearCase version control system.  ? Performed usability testing for the application using JUnit Test.    Environment:  JAVA, JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, Struts, Design Patterns, Eclipse, Apache tomcat server, DB2, UNIX, ClearCase, Junit, C, C++