Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Liberty Mutual Boston, MA • 8 years of experience as a Java/J2EE Developer in analysis, design, implementation, integration, testing and maintenance of applications using Java/J2EE and Object Oriented Client-Server technologies.  • Extensively worked with Retail, Healthcare, Insurance and Investment domain with good knowledge of developing complex projects and good management skills of the deliverables.  • Experience in working with various Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodologies based on Agile, Scrum, Waterfall Model.  • Good knowledge on core java with strong understanding of Multithreading, Collections, Exception handling, Garbage Collector.  • Experience in Front-End UI technologies like HTML, XHTML, HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, Angular JS, Angular JS 2.0, React.JS, Node.JS, Boot Strap, AJAX and JQuery.  • Expertise at using frameworks and tools like Spring Framework 3.x/4.x (Spring Core, DAO, ORM, AOP, Spring Security), Spring Boot, spring cloud, Hibernate (Mapping, Cashing).  • Strong understanding of Data Structures, Algorithms and Collections Framework.  • Extensively worked on n-tier architecture systems with application system development using Core Java, JDBC, JNDI, JSTL, JPA, Servlets, JSP, EJB, JMS, Web services, Restful (JAX-Rs, Jersey) and SOAP web services.  • Design and development of web-based applications using different Web and application servers such as Apache Tomcat, WebSphere 8.0, JBoss 7 and WebLogic.  • Experience with various MVC frameworks like Angular.JS, Backbone.JS, Node.JS, bootstrap.JS, react.JS, D3.JS, etc.  • Experience in message streaming by using Apache Kafka.  • Good Exposure on Web development using Java, AngularJS, jQuery, SOAP, REST and Microservices architecture.  • Experience in administering cloud tools Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure.  • Experienced in generating logging by Log4j to identify the errors in production test environment and experienced in Ant, Maven and Gradle tools building projects.  • Hands on experience in design and development of integration workflows using MuleSoft ESB.  • Good hands on Experience in designing and developing J2EE compliant systems using IDE tools like Eclipse, Net Beans, My Eclipse, RAD and InteliJ.  • Hands on experience in Risk Management Cloud Computing/PaaS/SaaS/IaaS Infrastructure Architecture Disaster Recovery.  • Good knowledge in Log4j, JUnit, JMeter, Selenium, Maven and Jenkins.  • Good Exposure on Virtualization and Containers Docker.  • Specialized in creating backend Node.js microservices and Restful APIs.  • Experience in MuleSoft Anypoint API platform for designing and implementing Mule APIs.  • Good experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, Unix and Linux, Open stock and Expertise python scripting with focus on Devops tools, CI/CD and AWS Cloud Architecture  • Having experience in various RDBMS databases like Oracle, SQL server, MySQL. And NoSQL databases like Cassandra and MongoDB.  • Experience in Amazon Web Services (Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Simple DB, Amazon RDS, Amazon Elastic Load Balancing).  • Experience in deploying WAR, JAR, and EAR files in J-Boss, Web-Logic, Web sphere application servers in Linux/Unix/Windows environment.  • Hands on experience in cloud automation using AWS Cloud Formation Templates, Chef, and Puppet.  • Experience in implementing Web Service client using SOAP, WSDL, REST and XML standard using SOA.  • Worked on UNIX/Linux shell scripting to automate system administration tasks, system backup/restore management and user account management.  • Strong experience with Version Control like GIT, SVN and CVS.  • Possess strong working knowledge of Database Programming using SQL, PL/SQL, Triggers and Stored Procedures.  • Extensive experience working with AJAX framework and single page web applications using AngularJS.  • Highly motivated team player with strong communication, analytical, documentation and organizational skills. Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Liberty Mutual September 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Development of a split billing system - core java, collections, spring, hibernate, MySQL  • Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML, file that contains declarations and business classes are wired-up to the frontend managed beans using Spring IOC pattern.  • Involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including analysis, design, development, and testing of the project.  • Worked on Agile Scrum methodology and involved in stand-up meetings to monitor the progress.  • Used JIRA for requirement and issue tracking.  • Created user interface using JSP, HTML, CSS and JQuery.  • Used Angular JS and jQuery library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application.  • Implemented Spring MVC architecture and Spring Bean Factory using IOC concepts.  • Extensively used Spring Framework for Controller components and View components.  • Used Spring Boot for developing Customer loyalty application.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST API s and Spring Boot for Microservices.  • Created Single Page Application with loading multiple views using route services and adding more user experience to make dynamic by Angular 2.0 framework and NodeJS.  • Developed Microservices using Spring MVC and Netflix stack (Hystrix, Archaius, Eureka, Zuul and Ribbon).  • Utilize Spring Boot to integrate Microservices with other Microservices and RabbitMQ messaging exchanges.  • Used splunk tool to monitor production logs, dashboard and to create alerts.  • Worked on Soap UI to validate the request and responses of the services.  • Used JAVA 8 functional expressions to manipulate the complex user defined data types of Cassandra and developed Microservices.  • Used memcache to cache third party calls for service response and page content.  • Designed and developed RESTFUL web services for both external and internal users.  • Used HttpClient to make all rest calls.  • Worked on Swagger API and auto-generated documentation for all REST calls.  • Automated the continuous integration and deployments using Jenkins.  • Developed and continuously deployed java based applications using CICD techniques.  • Configured internode communication between Cassandra nodes and client using SSL encryption.  • Used Gradle tools for building and deploying the Web applications, implemented the Junit testing.  • Implemented Junit(TDD) test cases for testing both internal and external API's functionality.  • Involved in deploying and testing the application using tomcat application server.  • Used GIT as centralized repository to make changes, creating pull requests and push the commits.  • Worked on agile scrum based methods for BDD  • Working expertise in Workflows and UML diagrams such as Use case diagrams, Activity diagrams, Sequence diagrams and Class diagrams.  • Designed and implemented new functionality in different services in NPS using Core Java, Multithreading, EJB, and JSP.  • Build Splunk dashboards using XML and Advanced XML as well as Created Scheduled Alerts for Application Teams for Real Time Monitoring.  • Experienced in implementing oracle SOA Mediator for content and header based routing of messages    Environment:Spring,Hibernate,Struts,jquery,AJAX,SenchaExtJS,Javascript,Oracle,CRUD,PL/SQL,JDBC,RESTApacheCXF,Eclipse,Weblogic,ClearCase,Junit,Agile,UML,JSP,JavaServer Pages Standard Tag Library(JSTL, Servlet, Maven, text, Google web toolkit(GWT), Jasper reports, ILog, Web 2.0, SOA. Sr Java Developer VMware, Inc March 2015 to August 2016 Responsibilities:    • Extensively used Core Spring Framework for Dependency Injections of components.  • Hands on experience on MVC Architecture using Spring (IOC, MVC, AOP).  • Agile methodology was used to develop the application.  • Implemented Coding Using Spring Boot, Java and J2EE Design Patterns.  • Used Spring MVC architecture to separate the presentation logic, control flow with business logic.  • Maintained CSS, HTML, XSL, XSLT, JavaScript, JSP, Angular JS, and Bootstrap for designing Webpages.  • Developed test cases by using JUnit and spring integration test framework.  • Focused on architecting NoSQL database like Cassandra database.  • Designed and implemented Transaction management using spring.  • Designed and developed the persistence layer using Hibernate persistent objects.  • Utilized data structures (array, linked list, binary trees) and algorithms (sorts, searches, hash) to achieve Low Latency.  • Used JPA and Hibernate with entity beans for interacting persistence layer for CRUD operations.  • Designed and developed Web Services to provide services to the various clients using Restful.  • Resources were exchanged using RESTful web services with the data passed around in JSON format.  • Utilized several Java 8 concepts like Stream API, Time API, Collection API, lambda expressions to migrate the existing application.  • Developed unit and integration tests for existing Microservices using Junit and Docker.  • Defined AWS Security Groups which acted as virtual firewalls that controlled the traffic allowed reaching one or more AWS EC2 instances.  • Used Ajax calls to make requests to external RESTful Web Services, and injected the service into the controllers.  • Authentication and Authorization is implemented by Spring Security.  • Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud Microservices and develop Spring based application with very less configuration.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular js 2.0.  • Involved in Designing Kafka messaging queues.  • Developed and test application modules into Microservices.  • Worked on JIRA for tracking and updating the JIRA tickets.  • Implemented CICD allowing for deploy to multiple client AWS environments.  • Developed the Integration workflows using the MuleSoft ESB 3.7.3 Framework.  • Use JBoss fuse for remote console login, JMX management and web server console.  • Automated the continuous integration and deployments using Jenkins, Docker, and AWS Cloud Templates.  • Worked with GIT Version control system to track various aspects of the project.  • Developed build script using MAVEN to build, package, test and deployed the application in JBoss.  • Used JUnit to test, debugged and implemented the application.  • Auditing tool is implemented by using log4j.  • Designed use case and class diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Created Hibernate mappings with the Oracle database.  • Application is deployed on WebSphere Application server. Maven is used as a build tool  • Interfaced with the Oracle back-end using Hibernate Framework and XML config files.  • Lead, Designed and Developed SOA enterprise system using Oracle SOA Suite 11g  • Developed interfaces and their implementation classes to communicate with the mid-tier (services) using JMS. Technically, it is a 3-tier client server application, where GUI tier interacts with Java middle-tier custom library and queries an Oracle database using Hibernate.  • Hosted and configured applications in IIS, IBM Websphere, and Apache Tomcat under Windows and AIX platforms  • Set up JBoss Server, Configured MySQL Cluster in Linux OS and installed OpenCall XDMS  • Develop complex web applications in PHP, AJAX with Informix as the database to model the business logic of the company which is Supply Chain Management.    Environment: Spring, Hibernate, Struts, JSF, DOJO, Sencha ExtJS, Javascript, CSS, AJAX, HTML5, DB2, CRUD, PL/SQL, JDBC, Apache Cxf, SOAP, web services, Eclipse, Websphere Portal, Websphere Commerce, Websphere integration Developer (WID), Websphere studio Application Developer (WSAD), Jboss, Subversion (SVN), JUnit, SCRUM, UML, JSP, JavaScript Pages Standard Tag Library (JSTL), Servlet, Maven, XML, Oracle enterprise content management, Google web Tookit, JIRA, Jasper reports, ILOG, Jrules, Web 2.0, SOA, JMS, Apache Tomcat, Linux, PHP. J2EE Developer UPS March 2014 to February 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed and Implemented Web Services and used Spring Framework    • Developed IBATIS config files for SYBASE D.B tables, stored process.  • Develop administrative interfaces with the technologies of JSP, JSF, AJAX, JavaScript, spring and Hibernate.  • Redesigned the current application and developed the responsive applications with new client-side functionalities in Agile Process.  • Involved in creating Servlets and JSP in the creation of dynamic web pages.  • Used JSP, HTML and CSS to create UI pages.  • Used JDBC to connect with the database.  • Creating custom, general use modules and components which extend the elements and modules of core AngularJS, Setup the Bootstrap for customizable UI design and Implemented Jasmine testing methodology.  • Used Netflix Ribbon for load balancing and creating Ribbon clients. Utilized Netflix Hystrix for fault tolerance and viewing dashboard.  • Implemented Spring Cloud Config Server, Routing and Filtering to Microservices using Netflix Zuul.  • Extensively involved in coding with core Java concepts like Collections, Exception Handling, Java I/O, and Generics to implement business logic.  • Worked on how to integrate data from the Datawarehouse for future purposes.  • Managed the relations, mapping in the database and error diagnosing, processing in field with RDBMS concepts.  • Practiced in designing websites using HTML, CSS and databases.  • Designed and developed the REST based Microservices using the Spring Boot.  • Hibernate Framework was used to interact with databases, object relational mappings, cache management and specifying the business rules.  • Created SOAP Web Services (JAX-WS using Axis 2.0) for inputting rate summary, also used WSDL and SOAP messages (XML technologies) for getting data from different module and SAX XML parsers being used for data retrieval.  • Involved in writing HQL queries, named queries and the entity persistence.  • Developed XML's, Java Script and Java Classes for dynamic HTML generation to perform the server-side processing on the client requests.  • Developed self-registration and account management related modules with Restful web services which can accept JSON/XML as request/response payload.  • Used XML parser APIs such as JAXB in the web service's request response data marshalling as well as unmarshalling process  • Involved in design development of modules Registration, Order Creation, CSR and Account management using Spring MVC.  • Involved in creating Tables, Views, Triggers and Functions.  • Involved in Database design and query optimization.  • Used Spring Data framework to use the features of Spring JDBC and Spring ORM Classes like JDBC Template and Hibernate Template to perform the database operations by connecting to Data sources available.  • Removed all the XML based configurations required to build the MVC application and maintained in the classes using Spring Boot.  • Prepared Unit test case using Junit. Worked with GIT repository to manage project to checkout and commit the code.  • Implemented front end changes based on spring integrated with Struts along with JSP view and Java code as per requirement  • Involved in developing custom taglibs, JSP, EJB's, Portlets and DB2 - stored procedures  • Developed forms using HTML and performing client side validations using Java Script.  • Extensively used the DOJO Toolkit to control and provide the rich functionality to GUI.  • Developed mobile applications using JQuery Mobile, PhoneGap, and Sencha for Virtual Infotech Inc  • Developed Interactive GUI Screens using JavaScript, iFrame, JQuery & Ajax  • Used JQuery JavaScript libraries for providing richer user interface and facilitates asynchronous request invocations using AJAX.  • Participated in developing web pages using JSP, JavaScript and Google Web Toolkit, DWR (Ajax Framework) for better user interface experience  • Extensively worked on business, front end and persistence tier using the JSP, Spring MVC, and EXTJS/JSON.  • Designed and developed DAO layer with Hibernate standards, to access data from IBM DB2  • Worked on the MySQL migration project .To make the system completely independent of the database being used. Used Spring IBatis to implement this.  • Used tools like Toad, PLSQL Developer and Squirrel for performing database operations  • Created SQL Server logins and assigning roles and Authentication models as a part of Security.  • Experienced in Oracle BRE Coherence integration  • Design and Developed using WebService using Apache Axis 2 on JBOSS.  • Implemented SOAP, WSDL and a subset of XML schema for a Web Service toolkit and for web services integration.  • Used Eclipse, Brackets and NetBeans IDE tools for debugging while using Fire bug, IE, Safari, and Chrome for code inspection.  • Used Software Configuration Management (SCM) tools i.e. CVS, VSS (Visual Source Safe), SVN, TFS & Java Build tools like Apache Ant & Maven  • Worked with version control tools such as CVS, SVN, and GIT for management of software systems  • Proficient in using Selenium WebDriver/RC/IDE/GRID, QTP for development and testing.  • Modified Models for Reporting and published packages in cognos connection using Frame Work Manager.  • Migrated Ilog Jrules to ODM  • Developed e-Worksheet using oracle ADF leveraging artifacts and business logic from existing enterprise application.  • Technical experience in implementation of Oracle process server (ID), OracleBPM Process Designer.  • Highly experienced in designing messaging architectures including developing, deployment and administration of IBM MQ series.  • Extensive experience with IDEs (Apache Tomcat) Eclipse, Net Beans and Google Web Toolkit (GWT).  • Extensive experience in working with Windows, UNIX, and LINUX platforms.  • Design and develop GUI and back-end components for analysis and collaboration software in Google Web Toolkit, Java and XML in a UNIX environment.  • Worked on Ruby on Rails Application Development for an annual project.  • Created and customized responsive WordPress web sites for clients.  • Lead on projects for custom websites in Drupal & Web Apps.  • Designed and implemented the Dunning Letter system, using ASP.NET, Visual Studio 2008, SQL Server 2005, TestDriven.net and Crystal Report, Telerik Report.  • Expert knowledge of C and C++, OO Design Principles - polymorphism, templates  • Designing, building, and maintaining reliable and efficient C++ code.  • As a COBOL developer the role involved Data Analysis of the various input/output and business functions of the programs.  • Developed, Designed, Coded and Tested changes to COBOL, PL/I, C++ and CICS programs utilizing VSAM and DB2 databases.  • Prepared JCL and documentation for proper execution of programs.  • Proficient in SQL, PL/SQL and other supporting tools like SPUFI.  • Maintained consistency of SAS VB variables formats and sorted various datasets using PROC SORT and merged them using MERGE.  • Implement the project using ASP.NET, VB.net and back-end database as SQL Server    Environment: Spring, Ibatis, Struts, JSF, EJB, Jquery, MySQL, DB2, Apache Axis2, WSDL, Netbeans, VSS (visual source safe) , CVS , Selenium, Waterfall Model, UML, JSP, Servlets, ANT, XML, iText, EMC Documentum, JIRA, Swing, Cognos, Jrules, OracleADF, Oracle BPM, IBM MQ series, Apache Tomcat, Linux, Unix, Wordpress, Drupal, ASP, C, C++ , COBOL, Mainframe, PL/I, JCL, SQL, ASP. Java Developer Cincinnati, OH November 2013 to February 2014 Responsibilities:  • Implemented Different Design patterns like singleton, factory and J2EE design patterns like Business delegate, session facade, Value object and DAO design patterns.  • Used Spring Framework's IOC Dependency Injection to inject Service Object using Service Locator Design Pattern into Action Classes.  • Used Struts tag libraries in the JSP pages.  • Developed a controller Servlet that dispatches request to appropriate Action Classes.  • Developed the application under J2EE Architecture using spring, Struts, Hibernate, Servlets, Web logic and JSP.  • Used Java Persistence API (JPA) and Hibernate for performing the Database Transactions.  • Used joinpoint and adviceSpring AOP modules for cross cutting concerns and IOC for dependency injection.  • Designed extensive additions to existing Java Web Application utilizing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) techniques.  • Extensively worked on Spring Bean wiring, Spring DAO and Spring AOPmodules.  • Designed Graphical User Interface (GUI) for various WebPages using AJAX, HTML, CSS, JSF, JQuery and JavaScript.  • Implemented SOA architecture with web services using SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and XML.  • Identified and resolved programming issues, Servlets and EJB s performance tuning opportunities.  • Used JMS API for asynchronous communication by putting the messages in the Message queue.  • Used Angular JS to create views for performing two-way data binding and synchronizing models with server as a single page Applications.  • Used Angular JS, Angular 2/4 to accomplish the single page application and produce maintainability of the Code.  • Designed interactive web pages with front end screens using HTML and JavaScript technology for the e-statement server as per the requirements.  • Extensive designing and development of Java Servlets, JSP and XML.  • Reviewed and maintained policies to migrate/upgrade code in production and streamlined the process by working with team.  • Strictly followed the policy of No SQL code gets into production without testing against current production schema and data in test environment.  • Consumed Web Services (WSDL, SOAP, and UDDI) from third party for authorizing payments to/from customers.  • Involved in Developing Web Application with Full Software Development life Cycle (SDLC) from Design to Deployment using agile methodologies.  • Created detail design documents which has the UML Design diagrams, table information, object model etc. which are required for the developer.  • MVC architecture is implemented by struts framework.  • Exposed Survey API to other applications in DOE using Apache Axis2.  • Page design and development are done using OracleBPM.  • Involved in implementing JQuery for providing interactive user interfaces.  • Written Test cases using JUnit to validate the application flows in different scenarios in the standalone application.    Environments: Jdk, JSP, Servlet, EJB, Spring, JavaScript, Hibernate, JQuery, Struts, Design Patterns, HTML,CSS,JMS, XML, Eclipse, Apache, Oracle ECM, Struts, Webservice, SOAP, ILOG, Web2.0, OracleBPM, JSF, WSDL, Apache CXF, Apache Axis, Apache Tomcat Server, SOA, PL/SQL, Oracle10g, UML, Weblogic, Junit. Sr. Software Engineer C SPIRE Wireless November 2011 to October 2013 Project Description: The C Spire project "ActivePro" was aimed at delivering a web-based portal that can be used in retail stores across the country to sell products and services. The application provides activation and customer maintenance services. It is used at the retail location and customer care centers for the purpose of increase time available for the customer interaction and call reduction. It is a portal system to the legacy retail system and "one-stop-shop" customer account lending page, which provide all the important information associates with the customer account.    Responsibilities:  • Used the light weight container of the SpringMVC Frame work to provide architectural flexibility for inversion of controller (IOC).  • Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) phases such as Requirement Analysis, Design and Implementation of the project.  • Used Spring Framework for dependency injection.  • Implemented and deployed several EJB (Session and Entity).  • The front end of the project is designed on MVC architecture using struts, Tiles frameworks.  • Involved in Configuring tiles-def.xml, web.xml and struts-config.xml according to the strut framework.  • Used LOG4J for error logging at the development box and used ANT for building the deployable EAR/WAR components.  • Used WebSphere Application Server for deploying various components of application.  • EJB's were running under the hood of WebSphere container/server.  • Implemented Back office loan services and web applications using Session Façade, Service Locator, Data Access Objects, Business Delegate, MVC, Front Controller and Data Transfer Object design patterns.  • Created DB2 SQL Procedures, Functions & Stored Procedures, Nested Tables, Cursors, DB2 Packages, Reports &SQL Functions for Reports.  • Developed the application using RAD model.  • Worked with VSS Version control in order to create virtual library of computer files.  • Strictly followed the policy of No SQL code gets into production without testing against current production schema and data in test environment.  • Upgrading the external facing website/portal developed in Java from Web logic using a more loosely coupled architecture and upgraded Oracle tools.  • Working on a purely, BDD environment.  • Used JDBC for connectivity.  • Integrating HTTP Apache HTTP plug-in with Web logic Servers.  • Implemented various design patterns in the project such as Business Delegate, Data Transfer Object, Data Access Object, Service Locator and Singleton.  • Integrating Struts with spring by delegating Struts action management to Spring Framework using proxy.    Environments: Java, JSP, Servlets, EJB, Struts, Spring, Html, XML, CSS, Log4j, Ant, Web services, RAD, IBM WebSphere server, IBM DB2, VSS. Software Engineer Qwest Telecommunications May 2009 to October 2011 Project Description: Consulting plus application is an ordering application for customer representatives who deals with wireline, broadband and DirecTV ordering. Consulting Plus application has calls to several external systems to fetch ordering details and validate details provided by the customer. Consulting plus used by 4000 representatives and process 60000 orders daily.    Responsibilities  • Analyzed the requirements and enhanced the application which improved maintainability, extensibility and performance.  • Interacting with business analysts, developers, testers and other stakeholders to develop and support web application.  • Creating Low-level and High-level designs based on IT requirements.  • Involved in database design, creating entity relationship diagrams, SQL queries, developing stored procedures.  • Developed Web pages with HTML, Java Script and CSS.  • Utilized Java/J2EE, Web services for developing different components.  • Developed and consumed SOAP, Tibco bus services to interface with external applications.  • Created unit tests using JUnit frame works and performed unit testing.  • Provided support during QA, UAT testing and Production deployments.  • Worked on Production Incident and Problem tickets, resolved them as per SLA.  • Have done troubleshooting of production issues and provided code fixes.  • Performed code reviews to ensure coding standards followed during development  • Extensive designing and development of Java Servlets, JSP and XML.  • Reviewed and maintained policies to migrate/upgrade code in production and streamlined the process by working with team.  • Strictly followed the policy of No SQL code gets into production without testing against current production schema and data in test environment.  • Application Architecture is based on MVC Struts Framework.    Environments: JAVA, JSP, SERVLETS, EJB, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, AJAX, LOG4J, XML, DOM, EDITPLUS, MULE, JBOSS. Education Masters in Computer Science and Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering Wayne State University