Sr. IOS Developer Sr. IOS <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. IOS Developer - PayPal Philadelphia, PA • 9+ years of expertise in SDLC full life cycle in Mobile Development using IOS.    • Expert in iPhone, iPad, Objective-C, Cocoa/Cocoa Touch, XCode, Jqtouch, Sencha Touch, Dojo Mobile, Jquery mobile with rich understanding of frameworks, memory management, multi-threading, best practices, and development tools.    • Professional experienced of working on IOS platform and frameworks and customizing it as per requirements.     • Experienced in Testing across Mobile App, Mobile Web Testing for iOS and Android Platforms.    • Experienced in developing and publishing iPhone/iPad Applications using Objective-C and Cocoa Touch.     • Excellent knowledge and experience in Oracle Database, DB2, PL/SQL, MS SQL Server, My SQL Server, Mongo DB.    • Experience working in various Software Development Methodologies like Waterfall, Agile SCRUM and TDD.     • Expertise in integrated environment for java such as Eclipse, MyEclipse, RAD, NetBeans, ClearCase and VSS.    • Experience in developing and implementing Web Services using SOAP, WSDL     • Good at Documenting and Understanding User requirements and System Specifications.    • Excellent Client interaction skills and proven experience in working independently as well as in a team.    • Experienced in Creating Domain Model, Activity Diagrams, Use Case diagrams, class diagrams, sequence diagrams and Object Model. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. IOS Developer PayPal - San Jose, CA May 2014 to Present PayPal is a worldwide online payment system. Online money transfers serve as electronic alternatives to traditional paper methods like checks and money orders. PayPal is one of the world's largest internet payment companies. In this project I have Implemented PayPal Infrastructure monitoring solution, enabling real-time monitoring of PayPal systems and applications in operation. This application helps in Real time fraud prevention, Provide Well Guarded information and is Safer from threats.    https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/paypal-send-money-quickly/id283646709?mt=8    https://www.paypal.com/in/webapps/mpp/paypal-safety-and-security    Accountabilities:  • Involved in developing hybrid mobile applications in iOS development  • Architected a customized network protocol used by client applications including iOS  • Using Swift iOS as a programming language to develop the application.  • Taking charge of the user interface for the development of iOS applications by using Objective C, Xcode Swift, JQUERY mobile, JAVASCRIPT, Backbone.js.  • Created custom internal iOS framework utilized by all iOS apps of the company.  • Implemented Mobile Application for both iPhone iOS and iPad using Swift.  • Building client and server technology using, Objective C, Xcode and Swift  • Development mobile web application for iOS.  • Full redesigned of the Mobile App from Objective C to Swift.  • Worked on JDBC to select and update the data from the MySQL database  • Repurposed the Content of web for Mobile using jQuery mobile & launched a Mobile Application.  • Cooperated with R&D team for developing front end solutions using JQuery Mobile  • Developing iOS application and networking API features for iOS using Xcode, Objective-C, Cocoa Touch, iOS SDK, Core Data  • Worked extensively with Objective-C and iOS SDK.  • Worked closely with UI team in designing user interface of the application optimized for all iPhone and iPad devices running with iOS and above using Auto layout.  • Developing a multi platform phone app for iOS, Android, Blackberry and Windows Phone 7  • Worked on the MySQL migration project .To make the system completely independent of the database.  • Installed and configured the development environment using Web-logic on Windows NT and LINUX  • Used Resource Manager to schedule the job in Unix server.  • Technology leadership for the direction of the Cloud based application using Node.JS, PDFJS, Sencha, MongoDB and MS SQL Server integrating to a proprietary framework.  • Architected and implement REST api interfaces using javascript and Node.js  • Created ASP.NET User Controls and Master pages to reduce the complexity of user interface design and to have a common look and feel.  • Developed a C# and Silverlight front-end application to access the web service  • Created Flex classes (actionscript and MXML files ) using Flex PureMVC pattern.  • Developed applications using a combination of Java with Android SDK, and Java with BlackBerry SDK.  • Develop mobile time tracking user interface for iPhone and Android using PhoneGap library  • Used Sencha Touch and EXT JS for the Mobile web interface development. Also used JSON and JQuery for Mobile application development. Worked with HTML and CSS.  Background Skills: IOS, Iphone, Ipad, Objective C, Swift, Xcode, Android, Sencha Touch, JQTouch, Asp.Net, C#, HTML, CSS, JSON, Jquery Mobile, Eclipse, RAD, Java, Oracle, Crud, PL/SQL, MySql, MS-Sql, JDBC, Oracle Coherence, MongoDB, Web Services, SOAP, REST, SOA, Ant, Agile, Scrum, Linux, Unix. Sr. IOS Developer Citibank - New York, NY October 2012 to April 2014 Citibank is a diversified financial services company that provides a broad range of personal banking, business banking, investment services and rapid loans. Worked as a Developer in their implementation of its existing and new Banking applications. In this project I have Implemented Smart Banking Features like Locate the nearest Citibank ATM, branches and retailers offering Citibank Privileges, Transfer funds, pay your bills or recharge your mobile, Instant money transfers to other Bank's accounts and Request for Statement on E-mail and much more.    https://www.online.citibank.co.in/products-services/online-services/internet-banking.htm?eOfferCode=INOSOSTLNINBA    Accountabilities:  • Designed mobile websites and apps for iOS.  • Mobile application development utilizing Sencha Touch Javascript API Framework  • Creation of mobile applications utilizing Objective C on iOS platforms  • Mobile-Web, Enyo R&D, created iOS, Window-Mobile plug-ins  • Worked in team to develop iOS application.  • Architected and built iOS interfacing with external RESTful and SOAP-based web services, interacting with external design group for UX and transforming/translating design-level requirements into functional requirements for same.  • Designed, Developed and maintained iOS applications using Cocoa Touch and Objective C.  • Conceptualized, designed, developed and deployed mobile applications using iOS SDK, Xcode.  • Used Sencha Touch to create Android and iOS applications to support RoR app.  • Worked on full software development cycle from concept through deployment for iOS.  • Designed and implemented using iPhone SDK, XCode, Objective-C and Interface Builder.  • Worked with iPhone application development using iPhone SDK, C#.NET, Xamarin Studio and Xcode having developed successful iOS (both iPhone & iPad) applications.  • Developed web apps for iOS (iPhone) and Android using frameworks like jQTouch, iWebKit.  • Develop a real time sports management web platform using T-SQL, JQuery Mobile and Flex.  • Designed and implemented database structure in MySQL Server.  • Involving in Building the modules in Linux environment with ant script.  • Created directory structure flow using UNIX to receive and send data to internal and external systems  • Designed and developed multi-protocol telecom Single-Page Architecture application using Node.js, Express and Jade on the backend  • Data modeling using Database development skills in Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL.  • Developed .NET components using C# and involved in the deployment of those components.  • Design and Develop programs in C++ to integrate as per the users requirements.  • Co-developed a new tool on the Express nodeJS/backBone.js MVC platform that allows marketers to insert dynamic content in email sends based on location and temporal factors  • Developed localizable GUIs using JavaScript, C#, WCF and Silverlight for Microsoft.  Background Skills: IOS, Iphone, IPad, Xcode, Jqtouch, Sencha Touch, Objective C, Android, Cordova, C#, ASP.Net, JQuery Mobile, Silverlight, Actionscript, Windowsphone7, Blackberry, HTML, CSS, Dojo Mobile, Agile, Scrum, Eclipse, RAD, DB2 Java, CRUD, PL/SQL, JDBC, Oracle, MongoDB, SOAP, Web Services, Linux, Unix, Eclipse, Git, Github, UML. Sr. Mobile Developer Cigna Health Insurance - Bloomfield, CT March 2011 to September 2012 CIGNA is a global health service company, dedicated to helping people by providing Short Term Disability Insurance (STD), Long Term Disability Insurance (LTD), Life, General Accident (GA) and Business Travel & Accident Insurance(BTA) coverage in the United States. The company strives to enhance employee health and productivity through health and wellness programs and lower overall costs.    https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.cigna.mobile.mycigna&hl=en    Accountabilities:  • Ported an iPhone iOS application to Android to include SQLite database management and several data entry views and GUIs.  • Publishing the application in production for all platforms (Android, BlackBerry).  • Developed the presentation layer (UI) using JSP, Tag libraries, HTML, Flash, CSS and client validations using JavaScript.  • Developed Coding the presentation layer using WPF and Silverlight.  • Developed prototypes using Flex, ActionScript, JavaScript, HTML, GWT and Java  • Responsible for building the application front end UI in Flex, ActionScript, FlashBuilder4 and Parsley.  • Developed UI components for email and link sharing of documents and files for a Content Management System using Backbone.js and jQuery  • Implemented custom search solutions using Coveo (an enterprise search engine), Backbone.js, and .NET web services (see Goodwin Procter's site for an example).  • Develop mobile time tracking user interface for iPhone and Android using PhoneGap library  • Developed iPhone and Android mobile app using Sencha Touch and Phonegap framework  • Using sencha touch for development to find relevant people for the same social Networking Websites  • Assisted in the logistical parameters of the iPad deployment process by keeping a daily count of total iPads and monitoring the shipping methods.  • Created, modified and loaded images onto iPad devices  • Involved in updating the application UI and application data structure for both Iphone/Ipad.  • Using JavaScript, JQuery, JQuery Mobile and EJS developed UI for a J2EE web application.  • Redesign part of an existing web application that was meant for desktops to work on mobile phones using JQuery Mobile  • Used JQuery JavaScript libraries for providing richer user interface and facilitates asynchronous request invocations using AJAX.  • Prepared statements are used for communication with MySql database  • Wrote Servlets programming and JSP scripting for the communication between web browser and server.  • Coded scripts to clean normalize, reformat data for loading into the system using Ruby scripts  • Website development based on WordPress as a content management system.  • Designed and developed the individual components of the system using C++ and CORBA  • Developed code usinf C, C++ for secure transaction.  Background Skills: Android, IOS, Phonegap, Jqtouch, Sencha Touch, Java, JQuery, MySQL, TOAD, SQL, DB2, Mercurial, ClearCase, Selenium, Water Fall Model, UML, JSP, Servlet, Ant, XML, EMC Documentum, Jira, Swing, Cognos, iLog, Oracle ADF, Oracle BPM, IBM MQ Series, Apache Tomcat, Linux, Unix, Ruby, COBOL, PL/I, JCL, SQL, SAS, VB. Sr. java developer U.S. Cellular - Chicago, IL February 2010 to February 2011 U.S. Cellular owns and operates the fifth largest wireless telecommunications network in the United States. Designed and maintained 4 new intranet websites which included the SourceBook website that directs associates to go to preferred vendor's website to make purchases.    Accountabilities:  • Involved in development of Web Services, were developed to receive client requests.  • Implemented Spring JDBC template, Spring Exception Strategy and AOP.  • Involved in setting up WebSphere Application server and using Ant tool to build the application and deploy the application in WebSphere Application server.  • Involved in transforming the Use Cases into Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and State diagrams.  • Involved in development of Web Services, creation of WSDL and schemas.  • Extensively participated on working with Spring framework. Involved in writing JSP and Servlets.  • Design, Development and testing of Java framework to transfer data from application to CIS and also from CIS to application.  • Worked with the creation of Store Procedures. Involved in writing SQL queries, Stored Procedures to accomplish complex functionalities.  • Part of team creating quality working J2EE code to design, schedule, and cost to implement use cases.  • Developed Reusable classes in the middleware using Hibernate.  • Wrote complex sql statements to retrieve data from the DB2 database.  • Involved in writing lots of JSP for maintains and enhancements of the application. Worked on Front End using Servlets and also backend using EJB and Hibernate.  • Worked on Presentation Layer using Struts Tiles, JSPs and Servlets.  • Created quality working J2EE code to design, schedule, and cost to implement use cases.  • Setting of DB2 build settings in RAD application development server.  • Involved in writing the database integration code using Hibernate.  • Creation of managed server and JDBC connections.  • Worked on the application using Rational Application Developer.  Background Skills: J2EE, Java, JSP, Servlet, JDBC, JavaScript, Struts, Hibernate, JUnit, DHTML, WebSphere Application Server, WSAD, Oracle, SQL Developer, TOAD, Spring, WSDL, Axis , tcpmon, Ant, WinCVS, Windows'XP, Aix-Unix. Software developer Synnex Fremont - Fremont, CA July 2008 to January 2010 SYNNEX distributes products and related logistics services. As a business process outsourcing and contract assembly it works with industry suppliers of IT systems, peripherals, system components, software and networking equipment    Accountabilities:  • Developed the modules of Purchase Request, Purchase Order, Item Master modules.  • Involved in the Enhancement of Summarization module.  • Developed the web pages using JSP, CSS and HTML  • Developed the RTM interface module to map the requirements to the test-case and Test design modules  • Generic Tree Navigation control).  • Used several J2EE Design Patterns (Session Façade, Aggregate Entity) for the Middle Tier development.  • Developed EJBS (Session and Message-Driven Beans) in (RAD) for handling business processing, database access and asynchronous messaging.  • Made extensive use of Java Naming and Directory Interface (JNDI) for looking up enterprise beans.  • Developed Message-Driven beans in collaboration with Java Messaging Service (JMS).  • Involved in writing JSP/HTML/JavaScript and Servlets to generate dynamic web pages and web content.  • Wrote various stored procedures in PL/SQL and JDBC routines to update tables.  • Wrote various SQL queries for data retrieval using JDBC.  • Involved in building and parsing XML documents using SAX parser.  • Exposed business logic as a web service and developed WSDL files for describing these web services.  • Extensively used SOAP formatted messages for communication between web services.  • Developed the application on IBM WebSphere Application Server.  • Developed the plug-in interfaces for the TMS features (TEE, Requirements, Version Control)  • Developed Form Beans, which are used to store data when the user submits the HTML form  • Coded various Java beans to implement the business logic  • Development of GUI using AWT  • Involved in creating the tables using SQL and connectivity is done by JDBC  • Involved in generating the reports regarding the marks they secured in the online test once they press the submit button in the test using HTML and JSP.  • Apache Tomcat is used as an Application Server to Deploy the Application.  Background Skills: J2EE, Java, JSP, Servlet, JDBC, Struts, Junit, log4j, JavaScript, DHTML, WebSphere Application Server, Axis, WSAD, XML, XSLT, Xalan-j, Ant, SQL Server, SQL Query Analyzer, JProbe, CVS, OPPROX Reports, Windows'XP, Unix-IBM AIX. JAVA DEVELOPER TCS India May 2007 to June 2008 Accountabilities:  • Involved in deploying the application with Struts Framework and Hibernate  • Involved in gathering business requirements, analyzing the project and created UML diagrams such as Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and flowcharts for the Optimization module using Microsoft Visio.  • Implemented the AJAX, JSPs, and Servlets, in the MVC Struts Framework to effectively handle the workflow of the application  • Experienced in validation XML manually and programmatically  • Experienced in consuming third party Jars  • Designed and developed the User Interface using JSP, JSF, HTML, CSS and JavaScript  • Implemented Design Patterns like MVC, Session Facade and Data Transfer Objects  • Implemented WSDL XML document to located and describe the web services  • Developed Ant scripts to deploy EAR, WAR files for deployment into server  • Successfully executed all the test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycles  • Worked with Log4J for logging purpose in the project  • Involved in building and deploying scripts using Maven to generate WAR, EAR and JAR files  Background Skills: J2EE, Core Java, Unix Shell scripts Sybase ASE, Solaris, Linux Windows NT/XP, Eclipse, SVN, Putty, Ultra Edit, AJAX, JavaScript JBOSS. Education Bachelor's Skills IOS (8 years), Iphone (5 years), Ipad (5 years), Objective C, (5 years), Swift (3 years), Xcode (4 years), Sencha Touch (4 years), Android (6 years), Titanium, (6 years), Phonegap (5 years), Cordova, (5 years), Java (9 years), J2EE (9 years), HTML (5 years), JavaScript (6 years), Objective C (3 years) Links https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/paypal-send-money-quickly/id283646709?mt=8%20%20https://www.paypal.com/in/webapps/mpp/paypal-safety-and-security Additional Information ADDITIONAL TECH SKILLS  SQLServer, Oracle, MySQL, DB2, JBoss, WebSphere, Tomcat, WebLogic, Eclipse, Flex, NetBeans, Linux Windows , Unix