Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Macy's, Johns Creek, GA Creekside, GA • 10+ years of experience as a Java/J2EE Developer in analysis, design, implementation, integration, testing and maintenance of applications using Java/J2EE and Object Oriented Client-Server technologies.  • Extensively worked with Retail, Healthcare, Insurance and Investment domain with good knowledge of developing complex projects and good management skills of the deliverables.  • Experience in working with various Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodologies based on Agile, Scrum, Waterfall Model.  • Good knowledge on core java with strong understanding of Multithreading, Collections, Exception handling, Garbage Collector.  • Experience in Front-End UI technologies like HTML, XHTML, HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, Angular JS, Angular JS 2.0, React.JS, Node.JS, Boot Strap, AJAX and JQuery.  • Expertise at using frameworks and tools like Spring Framework 3.x/4.x (Spring Core, DAO, ORM, AOP, Spring Security), Spring Boot, Spring cloud, Hibernate (Mapping, Cashing).  • Strong understanding of Data Structures, Algorithms and Collections Framework.  • Extensively worked on n-tier architecture systems with application system development using Core Java, JDBC, JNDI, JSTL, JPA, Servlets, JSP, EJB, JMS, Web services, Restful (JAX-Rs, Jersey) and SOAP web services.  • Design and development of web-based applications using different Web and application servers such as Apache Tomcat, WebSphere 8.0, JBoss 7 and WebLogic.  • Experience with various MVC frameworks like Angular.JS, Backbone.JS, Node.JS, bootstrap.JS, react.JS, D3.JS, etc.  • Experience in message streaming by using Apache Kafka.  • Good Exposure on Web development using Java, AngularJS, jQuery, SOAP, REST and Microservices architecture.  • Experience in administering cloud tools Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure.  • Experienced in generating logging by Log4j to identify the errors in production test environment and experienced in Ant, Maven and Gradle tools building projects.  • Hands on experience in design and development of integration workflows using MuleSoft ESB.  • Good hands on Experience in designing and developing J2EE compliant systems using IDE tools like Eclipse, Net Beans, My Eclipse, RAD and InteliJ.  • Hands on experience in Risk Management Cloud Computing/PaaS/SaaS/IaaS Infrastructure Architecture Disaster Recovery.  • Good knowledge in Log4j, JUnit, JMeter, Selenium, Maven and Jenkins.  • Good Exposure on Virtualization and Containers Docker.  • Specialized in creating backend Node.js microservices and Restful APIs.  • Experience in MuleSoft Anypoint API platform for designing and implementing Mule APIs.  • Good experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, Unix and Linux, Open stock and Expertise python scripting with focus on Devops tools, CI/CD and AWS Cloud Architecture  • Having experience in various RDBMS databases like Oracle, SQL server, MySQL. And NoSQL databases like Cassandra and MongoDB.  • Experience in Amazon Web Services (Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Simple DB, Amazon RDS, Amazon Elastic Load Balancing).  • Automated the Test Cases using Selenium, WebDriver, Java Eclipse and JUnit.  • Experience in deploying WAR, JAR, and EAR files in J-Boss, Web-Logic, Web sphere application servers in Linux/Unix/Windows environment.  • Hands on experience in cloud automation using AWS Cloud Formation Templates, Chef, and Puppet.  • Experience in implementing Web Service client using SOAP, WSDL, REST and XML standard using SOA.  • Worked on UNIX/Linux shell scripting to automate system administration tasks, system backup/restore management and user account management.  • Strong experience with Version Control like GIT, SVN and CVS.  • Possess strong working knowledge of Database Programming using SQL, PL/SQL, Triggers and Stored Procedures.  • Extensive experience working with AJAX framework and single page web applications using AngularJS.  • Highly motivated team player with strong communication, analytical, documentation and organizational skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Macy's, Johns Creek, GA May 2018 to Present Description: Macy's is one of the largest departmental retail stores. A warehouse management system (WMS) primarily aims to control the movement and storage of materials within a warehouse.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including analysis, design, development, and testing of the project.  • Worked on Agile Scrum methodology and involved in stand-up meetings to monitor the progress.  • Used JIRA for requirement and issue tracking.  • Created user interface using JSP, HTML, CSS and JQuery.  • Used Angular JS and jQuery library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application.  • Implemented Spring MVC architecture and Spring Bean Factory using IOC concepts.  • Extensively used Spring Framework for Controller components and View components.  • Used Spring Boot for developing Customer loyalty application.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST API s and Spring Boot for Microservices.  • Created Single Page Application with loading multiple views using route services and adding more user experience to make dynamic by Angular 2.0 framework and NodeJS.  • Developed Microservices using Spring MVC and Netflix stack (Hystrix, Eureka, Zuul).  • Utilize Spring Boot to integrate Microservices with other Microservices and RabbitMQ messaging exchanges.  • Used splunk tool to monitor production logs, dashboard and to create alerts.  • Worked on Soap UI to validate the request and responses of the services.  • Used JAVA 8 functional expressions to manipulate the complex user defined data types of Cassandra and developed Microservices.  • Used memcache to cache third party calls for service response and page content.  • Designed and developed RESTFUL web services for both external and internal users.  • Used HttpClient to make all rest calls.  • Worked on Swagger API and auto-generated documentation for all REST calls.  • Automated the continuous integration and deployments using Jenkins.  • Developed and continuously deployed java based applications using CICD techniques.  • Configured internode communication between Cassandra nodes and client using SSL encryption.  • Used Gradle tools for building and deploying the Web applications, implemented the Junit testing.  • Implemented Junit(TDD) test cases for testing both internal and external API's functionality.  • Involved in deploying and testing the application using tomcat application server.  • Used GIT as centralized repository to make changes, creating pull requests and push the commits.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Hibernate, Spring, Junit, Cassandra, WebLogic HTML 5, CSS 3, JavaScript, Jenkins, Gradle, Node.js, jQuery, Microservices, CICD, Spring Boot, JIRA, Eclipse, AJAX, Angular JS, JSON, JSF. Sr. Java Developer Best Buy - Richfield, MN January 2016 to May 2018 Description: Best Buy is a multinational retailer of technology products, including tablets and computers, televisions, mobile phones. The Company also offers technology services including technical support, repair and installation under the Geek Squad brand.    Responsibilities:  • Agile methodology was used to develop the application.  • Implemented Coding Using Spring Boot, Java and J2EE Design Patterns.  • Used Spring MVC architecture to separate the presentation logic, control flow with business logic.  • Maintained CSS, HTML, XSL, XSLT, JavaScript, JSP, Angular JS, and Bootstrap for designing Webpages.  • Developed test cases by using JUnit and spring integration test framework.  • Focused on architecting NoSQL database like Cassandra database.  • Designed and implemented Transaction management using spring.  • Designed and developed the persistence layer using Hibernate persistent objects.  • Utilized data structures (array, linked list, binary trees) and algorithms (sorts, searches, hash) to achieve Low Latency.  • Used JPA and Hibernate with entity beans for interacting persistence layer for CRUD operations.  • Designed and developed Web Services to provide services to the various clients using Restful.  • Resources were exchanged using RESTful web services with the data passed around in JSON format.  • Utilized several Java 8 concepts like Stream API, Time API, Collection API, lambda expressions to migrate the existing application.  • Developed unit and integration tests for existing Microservices using Junit and Docker.  • Defined AWS Security Groups which acted as virtual firewalls that controlled the traffic allowed reaching one or more AWS EC2 instances.  • Used Ajax calls to make requests to external RESTful Web Services, and injected the service into the controllers.  • Authentication and Authorization is implemented by Spring Security.  • Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud Microservices and develop Spring based application with very less configuration.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular js 2.0.  • Involved in Designing Kafka messaging queues.  • Developed and test application modules into Microservices.  • Worked on JIRA for tracking and updating the JIRA tickets.  • Implemented CICD allowing for deploy to multiple client AWS environments.  • Developed the Integration workflows using the MuleSoft ESB 3.7.3 Framework.  • Use JBoss fuse for remote console login, JMX management and web server console.  • Automated the continuous integration and deployments using Jenkins, Docker, and AWS Cloud Templates.  • Worked with GIT Version control system to track various aspects of the project.  • Developed build script using MAVEN to build, package, test and deployed the application in JBoss.  • Used JUnit to test, debugged and implemented the application.  • Auditing tool is implemented by using log4j.  • Designed use case and class diagrams using Rational Rose.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Hibernate, React JS, Spring, Junit, Cassandra, WebLogic HTML 5, CSS 3, JavaScript, Jenkins, Kafka, Node.js, jQuery, Microservices, JBoss, Linux, MuleSoft ESB, CICD, Docker, Spring Boot, JIRA, Eclipse, AJAX, Angular JS, JSON, JSF. Sr. Java Developer Gilead Sciences - Foster City, CA June 2015 to December 2016 Description: Gilead Sciences is an American biopharmaceutical company that discovers, develops and commercializes therapeutics. This project is a business application software system that deals with Health Care domain.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including analysis, design, development, and testing of the project.  • Worked on Agile Scrum methodology and involved in stand-up meetings to monitor the progress.  • Used JIRA for requirement and issue tracking.  • Wrote controllers with Groovy to connect front-end interfaces with java services on Grails framework.  • Developed the Use Case diagrams and Class diagrams.  • Developed scripts in Groovy to package log files and send them to a remote server.  • Worked on Soap UI to validate the request and responses of the services.  • Designed and developed RESTFUL web services for both external and internal users.  • Used HttpClient to make all rest calls.  • Created Views and publish them as Tables based on user requirements and restricted the data to the users.  • Involved in writing HQL and SQL Queries for Oracle database.  • Extensively used SQL Developer for database access and PL/SQL Development and SQL tuning.  • Developed SQL queries for retrieving data used to generate the reports.  • Automated the continuous integration and deployments using Jenkins.  • Developed and continuously deployed java based applications using CICD techniques.  • Used splunk tool to monitor production logs, dashboard and to create alerts.  • Implemented Junit(TDD) test cases for testing both internal and external API's functionality.  • Worked on Junit mocking in Grails unit testing.  • Involved in deploying and testing the application using JBoss application server.  • Used GITas centralized repository to make changes, creating pull requests and push the commits.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Groovy/grails, Hibernate, Junit, SQL, WebLogic HTML 5, CSS 3, JBoss, Jenkins,jQuery, CICD, JIRA,splunk, Eclipse,GIT,JSON. Sr. Java Developer True value - Chicago, IL August 2014 to May 2015 Description: This project has a web application to keep track of all of the activities involved with in our business.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented the backend business layers using Spring Beans, EJBs and Webservices.  • Developed Graphical User Interfaces by using JSF, JSP, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Responsible for validation of Client Interface using JavaScript and JQuery.  • Building application with JS frameworks such as React.JS, Angular.js.  • Implemented Controller Classes and Server side validations for account activity, payment history and transactions.  • Developed Microservices using Java Spring Boot, Hibernate, Restful services in Spring Tool Suite with good quality of code.  • Used popular Node.js frameworks like Express and Rectify to mock a Restful API.  • Designed automated tools for indexing DB content into Elastic search indices.  • Automate the cloud deployments using chef, python and AWS Cloud Formation Templates.  • Developed transaction history as service using Apache CXF restful web service.  • Used Spring ORM module to integrate with Hibernate.  • Worked on Docker container to create Docker images for different environments.  • Worked on Java Script libraries like jQuery and JSON.  • Used Bootstrap and React.JS to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.  • Used Mule ESB in designing the application as a middleware between the third party system and the customer side system.  • Used camel to integrate microservices with other microservices and RabbitMQ messaging exchanges.  • Implemented Oauth2 solutions using Spring Cloud, Google Service accounts, User accounts and API keys.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Developed Kafka producer and consumer components for real time data processing.  • Developed REST Web services written in Groovy/Grails wrapped by Jersey JAX-RS.  • Worked on UNIX/Linux shell scripting to automate system administration tasks, system backup/restore management and user account management.  • Used Apache camel integration for routing and transforming the data between two Applications using HTTP protocol.  • Develop and design the implementation of various Business Intelligence dashboards using Microsoft azure.  • Implemented custom asynchronous and load balanced processing using RabbitMQ.  • Worked on Python Open stack API's.  • Created Mongo DB/NoSQL collections. Developed Server side automation using NodeJS scripting and connecting different types of SQL and NoSQL stores.  • Created new customized issue type in JIRA for tracking custom requests in JIRA.  • Involved in writing the Maven build file to build and deploy the application.  • Configured JBoss horizontal and vertical clusters in Domain mode and standalone mode.  • Used SVN as version control systems. Involved in writing Jasmine tests.  • Used Log4J to capture the logging information and JUnit to test the application classes.    Environment: Java, JSP, Java Script, Core Java, jQuery, Spring MVC Framework, Spring Boot, Elastic search, Log4j, JUnit, JSF, CICD, Python, JBoss, Docker, Groovy/Grails, Microservices, Azure, Apache camel, AWS, Spring Cloud, Maven, RabbitMQ, Kafka, JIRA, ESB, React.JS, Web Logic, SVN, Web Services, WSDL. Sr. Java Developer GEICO - Chevy Chase, MD October 2012 to July 2014 Description: GEICO is the second largest auto insurer in the United States. GEICO is an auto insurance company which uses a direct-to-consumer sales model. The scope of the project is to develop an application that supports complex and rapidly changing New Model Product business.    Responsibilities:  • Followed Scrum Agile methodology for development of the application.  • Involved in analyzing the requirements and participated in discussions with business analysts.  • Involved in developing Hibernate DAO classes, mapping files for persistence layer.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries and Struts Tag Libraries to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Developed the middle tier using EJBs Stateless Session Bean, Java Servlets.  • Developed various helper classes needed following core java multi-threaded programming and Collection classes.  • Implement API Service using Apache Camel.  • Developed cloud native microservices using Spring cloud and Spring Boot.  • Design and develop new database using as relational database management system PostgreSQL.  • Added user validations and user permissions by using the Node.js.  • Involved in writing HQL and SQL Queries for Oracle database.  • Utilized custom logging framework for Mule ESB application.  • Created and compiled XML Schema to generate Java Bean classes.  • Patching the Linux servers on all the environments (Prod, Pre-Prod and Testing) of Customer.  • Written the integration test to execute full systems using the Groovy.  • Created framework in Selenium WebDriver using behavior driven approach like JBehave.  • Prepared automation scripts and developed PostgreSQL database architecture.  • Used Selenium WebDriver to provide more flexibility in automating test cases.  • Created REST Web Services for the management of data using JAX-RS.  • Used Tomcat Application server for live services.  • Developed test scripts to automate process of testing in Selenium WebDriver.  • Configure JIRA to set up a trusted communication between JIRA and Confluence.  • Used Log4j to setting up debugging and error information for production support.  • Used Junit for unit testing and Jenkins for automated build and deploy process.  • Involved in bug fixing during the System testing, Joint System testing and User acceptance testing.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, JMS, HTML5, CSS3, Node.js, JavaScript, Java Bean, jQuery, JSP, AJAX, AngularJS, Selenium, Tomcat, PostgreSQL, Spring cloud, React.JS, Selenium, Apache Camel, JIRA, Jenkins, ESB, Linux, PL/SQL, ANT, Log4j, Git, Maven, JUnit. Java Developer True value - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2010 to September 2012 Responsibilities:  • Handling client change requests and enhancements on an Agile based development platform.  • Used Spring Framework as middle tier application framework, persistence strategy using spring support for Hibernate for integrating with database.  • Designed user interface layout using JavaScript, CSS, JSF and HTML.  • Responsible for writing Struts action classes, Hibernate POJO classes and integrating Struts and Hibernate with spring for processing business needs.  • Created tables, triggers, stored procedures, SQL queries, joins, integrity constraints and views for multiple databases.  • Developed Ant Scripts for the build process and deployed in EAP Server.  • Developed User Interface using JQuery.  • Worked as a Core Java Developer and responsible for Deployment and necessary configuration of WebSphere Application Servers.  • Used Web Services (JAX-WS using Axis 2.0) for creating rate summary and used WSDL and SOAP messages for getting data from different module and used SAX XML parsers for data retrieval.  • Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information such as payment status report.  • Developed Unit test cases using JUnit.  • Used Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  • Used Rational ClearQuest for tracking errors and bugs in the project source code.  • Prepared technical reports and documentation manuals for efficient program development.    Environment: JDK 1.5, JSP 2.0, HTML, Java Script, Struts 1.2.8, JSF, Tomcat, JDBC 3.0, IBM Web Sphere 6.1, XML, XSLT, Unix, JUnit, Ant, UML, JDBC, Maven, Oracle 10g. Sr. Java Developer Guardian life insurance - New York, NY October 2011 to October 2011 Description: Guardian Life Insurance is one of the largest mutual life insurance companies in the United States. Guardian sells a variety of products including life insurance, disability insurance and dental insurance. The project involves developing online services for Life insurance like get a quote, buy insurance, make a payment, manage policies and claim a report. Users can get a quote online and buy the insurance online.    Responsibilities:  • Designed use cases, sequence and class diagrams, activities, states, objects and components. Used UML (MS Visio) for software design.  • Worked on AGILE methodology.  • Written Java Script, HTML, DHTML, CSS, Servlets, and JSP for designing GUI of the application.  • Developing the application using Spring MVC Architecture with Hibernate as ORM framework.  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like React.JS.  • Design and develop XML processing components for dynamic menus on the application.  • Developed SQL queries for retrieving data used to generate the reports.  • Developed Stored Procedures and Triggers on Oracle Database.  • Implemented client side Interface using React.JS.  • Designed and Developed End to End customer self service module using annotation based Spring MVC, Hibernate, Java Beans and JQuery.  • Creating multiple facelets in the page.  • Used GIT for the version control management.  • Involved in Servlets, Java Bean programming on the server side for the communication between clients and server.  • Developed SOAP based Webservices using Apache CXF.  • Developed Logger classes using Log4j for efficient logging mechanism.  • Deployed application on JBoss server and used Maven as a build tool.  • Developed JUnit test cases for all use cases and executed them.  • Worked with Quality Assurance team in tracking and fixing bugs.  • Played a key role in for developing the application and fixing the production issues.    Environment: Java 1.5, Java 1.6, J2EE, Servlets, JSP 2.5, JUNIT, Spring 2.5.6/3.0,Hibernate 3.0, Oracle11g, Maven, JBoss, Apache, SOA, facelets, Apache CXF, Eclipse IDE 3.7, Log4J, React.JS, Ajax, SOAP, PL/SQL, HTML, CSS, Java Bean, JavaScript, JQuery, SVN. JAVA Developer PB Systems - Vijayawada, Andhra Pradesh May 2009 to March 2010 Description:    The project was designed to implement a web based front end system which can be used by the employees, managers and higher level management having specific role permissions for effective processing of day to day business activities in the company like leave management, project management and resource management etc.    Responsibilities:  • Design and Development of the Object Oriented applications using OOA and OOD techniques in all Business Areas using Rational Rose.  • Gained substantial knowledge about the concepts, design advantages, traps and pitfalls of successful object-relational mapping.  • Worked on bug fixing and Production Support.  • Developed class diagrams, sequence diagrams and object diagrams using UML methodology.  • Wrote Client side validation scripts using JavaScript.  • Designed and developed sub system using Java Servlets, JSP, J2EE Entity beans and Session Beans.  • Designed and developed web pages using HTML and JSP.  • Stored data in Oracle database and accessed using Oracle JDBC drivers.  • Used Eclipse as IDE to create, test and deploy EJB components.  • Design and developed Oracle stored procedures, functions, triggers and PL/SQL modules.  • Imported Client data into the database from XML file by using the XML Parser.    Environment: J2EE, Servlets, JSP, EJB, JDBC, SQL, HTML, JavaScript, Eclipse, XML, Oracle, CVS. Education Bachelor's Bachelor's Additional Information Technical Summary:    Languages JAVA, C, C++, SQL, and PL/SQL.  Web Technologies HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Angular JS, Angular 2, AJAX, XML, XSLT, Java Beans, JMS.  J2EE Technologies Servlets, JSP, JSF, EJB, JMS, JNDI, Web Services, JDBC, SOAP, RMI.  Methodology Agile, Scrum, RUP, TDD, OOAD, SDLC.  Java Script Technology Angular JS, Node.js.  App/Web servers Apache Tomcat, Weblogic, Apache camel, WebSphere, JBoss, WAS 5.x, Grunt server.  Applications Frameworks Spring, Hibernate, Struts, JSF.  Web services SOAP, WSDL, AXIS, JAX-WS, REST, JSON, JAX-RS, JAX-RPC, UDDI.  Databases Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server, DB2, MongoDB, Cassandra.  XML XML, XPATH, XSLT, XML SPY, JAXB, SAX, DOM, JAXP.  Tools ANT, JUNIT, Log4j, JMETER, TOAD, Maven, Rational Rose.  IDEs Eclipse, My Eclipse, NetBeans, InteliJ.    Operating Systems Windows, UNIX, LINUX.