Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java/J2EE Developer - Penn National Insurance Tampa, FL • Over 9 years of strong experience in software development using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Involved in the Software Development Life Cycle phases which include Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance.  • Well versed in using Software development methodologies like waterfall and agile (Scrum).  • Experience with Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) methodology using tools like Unified Modeling Language (UML) and Rational Unified Process (RUP) using Rational Rose.  • Expertise in J2EE technologies like JSPs, Servlets, EJBs 3.1, JDBC, and JNDI.  • Involved in developing distributed Enterprise and Web applications using UML, core java, Java/J2EE, EJB, JSP, Servlets, Applets, Struts, JMS, JDBC, HTML, Json, XML, XSL, XSLT, JavaScript and Hibernate.  • Experience with various J2EE design patterns like DTO, DAO, MVC, Session Facade, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Transfer Object, Singleton and View Object in the development of Enterprise Applications.  • Worked on Multithreading, Spring framework for developing Multi-Tier distributed Enterprise Applications.  • Familiar with coding rules and code analysis tools like Check Style and Test Driven Development(TDD).  • Experience in software configuration management using GIT, CVS, Clearcase and SVN.  • Experience in developing Web Applications with various Open Source frameworks: Spring Framework 2.0/3.0, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Hibernate 2.0/3.0 ORM, Struts Framework 1.1/1.2/2.0, and Struts Validation.  • Used persistence frameworks such as Hibernate and JDO to map POJOs to a relational database.  • Extensively worked on building and consuming the RESTFull and SOAP Webservices.  • Worked with XML parsers like JAXP (SAX and DOM) and JAXB.  • Good Experience in Server side Business Logic Development using Session, Entity and Message Driven Beans.  • Experience using Jersey framework to build Web Services.  • Experience using build tools such as MAVEN, GRADLE, and ANT  • Experience using JMS ( Java Messaging Service) across multiple Java applications.  • Extensive experience and understanding of java 2/7, JDBC, XML, XSL, XSLT, XSD, parsing methodology like SAX and DOM, RAD, Eclipse 3.x IDE, WebLogic 7.X, WebSphere 7.0/8.5, JBoss 4.0, and Apache Tomcat 4.x/5.5/6x Servers.  • Proficient with Core Java and markup languages HTML, XHTML, DHTML, CSS, XML.  • Experience in writing SQL queries, triggers, and stored procedures using SQL/PL-SQL.  • Experience working on databases such as Oracle and IBM(DB2).  • Expertise in Python and Bash scripting.  • Experience using Java compliant IDE's like Eclipse 3.0 and RAD 7.2.  • Hands on experience with JUnit, Jenkins, and Log4j in developing test cases and determining application functionality. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Penn National Insurance - Harrisburg, PA April 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile Methodologies to manage full life-cycle development of the project.  • Efficiently managed the tasks, working and delivering features in a fast-paced scrum environment.  • Worked in Agile development following SCRUM process, Sprint and daily stand-up meetings.  • Participated in discussion with business analysts and analyzed the feasibility of the requirements.  • Prepared design document using Star UML.  • Developed the application using core Java concepts, including Collections API, threads, generics, and reflection.  • Involved in creating user interface using JSP, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Ajax, Jquery, and Angular JS.  • Implemented front controller mechanism to handle multiple http request with a single Servlet.  • Developed reusable Angular JS components and directives along with DOM manipulations.  • Involved in writing SQL queries and procedures using PL/SQL in Oracle.  • Developed Informant service layer by using Spring MVC.  • Implemented Spring AOP components for Transactional Model to handle multiple requests and exception handling.  • Implemented Spring Boot for spring configuration and implemented Continuous Integration(CI) using Jenkins.  • Implemented the service, data access tier using Spring DAO support for Hibernate  • Used Hibernate named queries concept to retrieve data from the database and integrate with Spring MVC to interact with back end persistence system (Oracle 11g).  • Implemented Hibernate Framework and configured EH secondary cache, modify and update user information to Oracle database.  • Developing the Rest web services API to consume and produce the JSON data.  • Designed asynchronous messaging using Java Message Service (JMS) to exchange the critical business data and events among J2EE components.  • Involved in unit testing using Junit and Mockito framework, and debugging.  • Used Maven deployment descriptor to set up build environment by writing Maven pom.xml, taking build, configuring and deploying the application in WebSphere 8.5 application server.  • Maintained application logs using Log4j and • Used SVN to control the code version.  • Developed and debugged the application using Eclipse IDE.    Environment: - Java JDK 1.7/1.8, Oracle 11g, Eclipse, WebSphere 8.0, Spring MVC, Spring DAO, Spring AOP, Spring Boot, Agile Methodology, Java/J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL, JSP, Json, Angular JS, Rest web services, Hibernate, HTML, AJAX, Java Script, XML, JMS, XSLT, JUnit, Mockito, log4j, Star UML, SVN, and Maven Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Guardian Life Insurance - Lehigh Valley, PA September 2013 to March 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in analyzing the user requirements and specifications.  • Utilized Agile methodology to manage the development lifecycle of the project.  • Prepared sequence diagrams and Class diagrams using Star UML.  • Developed User interface using Angular JS, JSP, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Ajax, JQuery and JSON.  • Implemented two-way data binding and developed directives using Angular JS.  • Developed business components using core java concepts like polymorphism, inheritance, multithreading, serialization, and collections API.  • Used Spring Boot to auto configure and document the application.  • Developed service layer by using Spring MVC.  • Formed classes of Spring Framework to write the routing logic and to call different services.  • Used Spring DAO to connect to the database.  • Used Hibernate to map the relational database (DB2) to the java objects.  • Extensively used JPA 2.1 in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Used Hibernate cache for query to improve the application performance.  • Produced and Consumed Restful web services using Jersey framework.  • Implemented Spring Declarative Transaction Management for Transaction management  • Involved in sprint planning and attended daily Standup Meetings.  • Developed test cases using Junit and Mockito framework.  • Developed application using JMS for sending and receiving Point-to-Point JMS queue messages.  • Used Gradle to generate build scripts, and deployed the application in WebLogic application server.  • Created new tables, Sequences and written SQL queries and triggers and procedures using PL/SQL in Oracle.  • Utilized Agile Methodologies to manage full life-cycle development of the project.  • Implemented MVC design pattern using Spring Framework.  • Designed Java Servlets and Objects using J2EE standards.  • Used GIT to manage the code version.  • Used Eclipse to integrate the development environment.    Environment: - Java JDK 1.7, IBM Db2, Eclipse, Weblogic, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring framework, Junit, Restful Web services, Java/J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL, JSP, Hibernate, HTML, Angular JS, json, JPA 2.1, AJAX, Java Script, JDBC, XML, Jersey, JMS, XSLT, XML, UML, JUnit, log4j, Star UML, GIT, Gradle Java/J2EE Developer Epsilon - Dallas, TX January 2011 to September 2013 Responsibilities:  • Participated in Analysis, Design, Implementation, UAT and Production of the Application and developed UML diagrams.  • Used Facade, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Factory Method, Singleton patterns, and Model view controller in the project cycle.  • Implemented modules using Core Java APIs, Java collection, Threads, XML and integrating the modules.  • Mapped java objects to oracle 11g using hibernate ORM framework and built relations using JPA.  • Implemented application context and bean factory features of spring framework for better performance, lightweight application and configured the beans in bean.xml file.  • Used JSP and servlets to build the web components and handle request and response from view.  • Worked in a Scrum Agile process with two-week iterations delivering new features and working software at each iteration  • Developed Business tier and Presentation tier using EJB 3.1 and Struts Framework  • Analyzed and fixed the stuck orders and preparing weekly reports.  • Done root cause analysis of recurring problems.  • Prepared documentation for the project.  • Done Monitoring and deployment of various applications in UNIX environment.  • Involved in 24*7 production support of various applications.  • Involved in postproduction support.  • Developed and maintained Ant Scripts for the build purposes on testing and production environments  • Built Rest Web Services using Json to provide customers support to access third party applications.  • Used SVN for version controlling  • Developed and deployed EJB 3.1 bean components on JBoss application server.  • Developed front end with HTML, JSP, Java Script, Ajax, Angular JS, JQuery, and CSS.  • Created and executed SQL queries in TOAD.  • Used JAXB parser for parsing the valid XML files as defined by the XSD  • Implemented Transaction Management using the Hibernate configurations.  • Mapped the relation in hibernate by implementing JPA.  • Generated Stubs to consume SOAP web Services and build SOAP Web Services using XML.  • Used Eclipse integrated development environment in UNIX environment.  Environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, Java script, JQuery, SOAP and REST Web Services, Hibernate, JPA, Spring, Oracle 11g, UNIX, JBoss Application Server, Eclipse IDE, XSD, EJB 3.1, JAXB, XML, Angular JS, TOAD, Json, HTML, CSS, ANT, SVN, Scrum. Java Developer Verizon - Boston, MA August 2009 to January 2011 Responsibilities:  • Developed the application using Struts Framework that leverages classical Model View Layer (MVC) architecture UML diagrams like use cases, class diagrams, interaction diagrams (sequence and collaboration) and activity diagrams were used.  • Worked in an Agile environment.  • Involved in designing user screens and validations using HTML, CSS, Java Script, jQuery, Ext JS and JSP.  • Used core java and implemented java collections framework.  • Responsible for validation of Client interface JSP pages using Struts form validations  • Integrating Struts with Spring IOC  • Designed asynchronous messaging using Java Message Service (JMS) to exchange of critical business data and events among J2EE components.  • Used Spring Dependency Injection properties to provide loose-coupling between layers  • Implemented the Web Service client for the login authentication, credit reports and applicant information using Apache Axis 2 Web Service  • Used Hibernate ORM framework with Spring for data persistence and transaction management  • Used Hibernate 3.0 object relational data mapping framework to persist and retrieve the data from database  • Written SQL queries, stored procedures, and triggers to perform back-end database operations  • Developed ANT Scripts to do compilation, packaging and deployment in the WebSphere server  • Implemented the logging mechanism using Log4j framework  • Designing and implementing algorithms  • Used IBM Clearcase to manage source code.  • Built test cases using JUNIT.  • Used IBM rational application developer(RAD) for application development.  • Wrote test cases in JUnit for unit testing of classes    Environment: -JDK 1.5, J2EE 1.5, Agile Development Process, Struts 1.3, Spring 2.0, Web Services (JAX-WS, Axis 2) Hibernate 3.0, JMS, JSP, Servlets 2.5, WebSphere 6.1, oracle 10g, HTML, XML, IBM Rational Application Developer (RAD), ANT 1.6, Log4J, XML, XSLT, XSD, jQuery, JavaScript, Ext JS, JUnit 3.8, Clearcase. Java Developer ASCAP - New York, NY January 2007 to June 2009 Responsibilities:  • Apart of Copyright and Membership team which develops and maintains client facing and internal employee web applications.  • Ongoing Development of Java Restful Web Services (JAX-RS) for redesign of ASCAP's Member Access website.  • Involved in Design, Development and Support phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) using waterfall model.  • Reviewed the functional, design, source code and test specifications  • Involved in developing the complete front end development using HTML, CSS, and Java Script.  • Author for Functional, Design and Test Specifications  • Implemented Backend, Configuration DAO, XML generation modules of DIS  • Analyzed, designed and developed the component  • Used JDBC for database access  • Used Data Transfer Object (DTO) design patterns  • Unit testing and rigorous integration testing of the whole application  • Written and executed the Test Scripts using JUNIT  • Actively involved in system testing  • Developed XML parsing tool for regression testing  • Prepared the Installation, Customer guide and Configuration document which were delivered to the customer along with the product  • Used eclipse in Unix environment for application development.    Environment: Java 5, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JDK 1.5.1, JDBC, Oracle10g, XML, XSL, Unix and UML Education Bachelor's Skills CSS (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), JAVA (10+ years), UML (10+ years), XML (10+ years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages Java, J2EE, Python, SQL/PLSQL  Operating Systems Windows 98/2000/XP/NT, Windows 7/8/10, Linux, MAC OS  Java Technologies J2SE, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JMS, EJB, MDB, JNDI  Web/App. Server Apache Tomcat 4.4 &5.5 &6.x, WebLogic 7x & 8x, Web Sphere 7.0 & 8.5, JBoss 4.0  Frameworks& Tools Struts1.1/1.2/2.0, Spring 2.0/3.0, MVC, Spring Boot, Hibernate 2.0/3.0, JUnit, Jersey, JPA, AJAX, Log4J, Eclipse 3.0, RAD 7.2  Web Technologies JSP, JQuery, XML, JSON, HTML, XSLT, JavaScript, CSS, DHTML, Servlets, Ajax, REST, SOAP, JSTL  Databases ORACLE, DB2, SQL Server, Mongo DB  Design & Modelling UML, Design Patterns, Microsoft Visio, Rational Rose 3.0, waterfall, Agile SCRUM  Tools/IDES RAD 7.2, Net Beans, Eclipse  Build Tools ANT, Maven, Gradle  Version Control Tools CVS, SVN, GIT, Clear Case