Sr FullStack Java/J2EE Developer Sr FullStack <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. FullStack Java/J2EE Developer - Cuna Mutual Group 57222 • Extensive experience developing enterprise applications using Spring, Hibernate, JavaBeans, Servlets, Struts, XML Mapping, Ant, Ivy and Maven.  • Experience in all phases of SDLC like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and Maintenance, and extensive experience with Agile Methodology.  • Experienced in System Development Life Cycle with Agile, SCRUM methodologies.  • Extensive experience in designing User Interface applications and professional web applications using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap JQuery, Angular JS, React JS.  • Extensively used the JavaScript frameworks like Angular.js, Node.js, Bootstrap, Backbone.js and JQuery plugins..  • Expertise in developing single page web application using JavaScript framework Angular JS.  • Expertise in Java Script, JavaScript MVC patterns, Object Oriented JavaScript Design Patterns and AJAX calls.  • Extensive experience in various UI widgets using JavaScript libraries (JQuery) and developing Rich Internet Applications (RIA).  • Excellent technical knowledge in back-end RDBMS tools like Oracle 9i/10G and MySQL.  • Experience in designing and coding Stored Procedures, functions, triggers, packages using SQL and PLSQL with tuning concepts and comfortable working with databases like SQL Server, DB2, No-SQL and MySQL..  • Experience in building web applications using SPRING framework features like MVC (Model View Controller), AOP (Aspect Oriented Programming), DAO (Data Access Object), Spring Boot, Spring Security, Spring Batch.  • Experience in Hibernate / JPA to store the persistent data as an Object-Relational Mapping (ORM) tool for communicating with database.  • Extensive experience in Web application development using - HTML, CSS, JHTML, JavaScript, Ajax, AngularJS, D3.Js, ExtJS, Applets, AWT, RMI, XML, XSD, XSTL, UML.  • Hands on experience in solving software design issues by applying design patterns including Singleton Pattern, Proxy Pattern, Factory Pattern, Abstract Factory Pattern, DAO Pattern, MVC Pattern and Command Pattern  • Expert level skills in programming with Struts Framework, Custom Tag Libraries, Struts Validation Framework.  • Expertise in programming with Spring Framework, Spring IOC Container, Spring AOP.  • Expertise in programming with Web Services frameworks like SOAP, REST and WSDL.  • Expertise in programming with Hibernate Framework, Hibernate Configuration, DAO Design, Object Relation Mapping (ORM).  • Worked on migration from oracle 10g to Apache Cassandra.  • Good Experience in working with NoSQL databases like Mongo DB and Apache Cassandra.  • Expertise in using tools like File Zilla, Winscp, Putty, SVN, CVS, VPN, JIRA, RallyDev, Ant, Maven, log4j, Junit, SQL Developer, Jenkins, Github, TOAD.  • Expertise in using J2EE Application Servers such as IBM WebSphere 4.x/5.x/6.x, WebLogic, JBoss 3.x and Web Servers like Tomcat 5.x/6.x  • Expertise in object modeling and Object Oriented design methodologies (UML).  • Experience with UML diagrams like Class, Object, Use Case, State, Activity diagrams and designing UML diagrams using Rational Rose and Microsoft Visio.  • Developed, Tested and Deployed applications on Windows and UNIX platforms..  • Experience in using software versioning and revision control system like Apache Subversion (SVN), CVS and Rational Clear case.  • Expertise in developing unit testing frameworks using JUnit, DB Unit based on test first or test driven methodology.  • Worked on continuous integration using Jenkins/Hudson.  • Extensive experience in developing software build/deployment descriptors using Apache Ant, Apache Maven.  • Proven ability to analyze problems, root causes, and develops innovative solutions to business challenges and streamlining operations.  • Exceptional ability to quickly master new technologies and capable of working in-group as well as independently with a sense of responsibility and ownership.  • A resourceful team player with good inter-personal skills, effective problem - solving and decision-making skills, looking for a satisfying career in a fair working environment with opportunities for growth. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr FullStack Java/J2EE Developer Cuna Mutual Group - Madison, WI April 2016 to Present Project Description:  Cuna Mutual Group is a mutual insurance company that provides financial services to cooperatives, credit unions, their members, and other customers worldwide. The application provides comprehensive information concerning various types of Insurance coverage offered by Cuna. The website functionality was extended by providing the customers to login and performs online transactions like paying bills online and updating their insurance policy. The website was redesigned to provide customized information for the end users.    Responsibilities  • Involved in the enhancements, re-designing the existing application. Actively  • Participated in interacting and gathering the requirements from the client for the new enhancements.  • Involved in coding, building of Java applications using Core Java, Multithreading, JSP, and Servlet.  • Used standard J2EE design patterns and Model-view-controller (Spring MVC) in application design.  • Implemented RESTful Web Services and associated business module integration for getting status of claim report.  • Integrated and implemented GitHub API's to configure and list the existing project repositories by using RESTful Web services.  • Involved in consuming, producing RESTful web services using JAX-RS.  • Used JMS API for asynchronous communication by putting the messages in the Message queue.  • Created Internal RESTful Web Service API using AJAX Call (JSON, JAVA and AJAX).  • Used JSON for storing and exchanging test information, as it is smaller and easier to parse compared to XML  • Developed Java Beans to be used by JSP pages for presenting Web content.  • Worked with multithreaded custom framework similar to Spring-Batch using OSGI and Caching (Dynamic and Non Dynamic) to develop end of day batch loaders.  • Designed and implemented the UI using HTML, JSP, JavaScript, AJAX, and JQuery and AngularJS.  • Worked on Angular JS which combines web applications with Model View Controller capability to make development and testing of code efficient.  • Involved in Design, Documentation, Coding and Testing of the application in Agile Methodology.  • Worked with QA team on daily basis in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform compatibility.  • Worked on various cross browser (Chrome, Safari, Firefox and android native browsers) compatibility issues.  • Experience in using Hibernate as an ORM tool to maintain object relational persistence across front-end and Oracle Database, writing queries and creating hibernate mapping (.hbm) files.  • Involved in the development of web services and writing shell scripts for server on UNIX.  • Used JIRA as ticketing system tool to track work items and Log4J for logging.  • Used Oracle as database and involved in the development of PL/SQL backend implementation.  • Used Oracle SQL Server for storing the data and extensively used PL/SQL queries along with stored procedures and functions for complex queries and data analysis.  • Written and modified SQL queries and stored procedures for the application to communicate with Database. Oracle used as backend, Worked on SQL queries for persistence of Business Objects.  • Involved in mapping data base tables with Business objects using Hibernate.  Environment: Spring MVC, Oracle 10g, Hibernate, RESTful Web services, My Eclipse IDE, JQuery, JSON, AJAX , Html, CSS, Java Script, AngularJS, WebSphere Application Server, Java, JSP, HTML, JMS, Java script, JQuery, SQL, UNIX, DB2, JIRA and Log4j Sr. Fullstack Java/J2EE Developer Delta Airlines - Atlanta, GA May 2014 to March 2016 Project Description: AGS (Altea Gateway Services):  AGS (Altea Gateway Services) provided data that allows Altea to retrieve and check eligibility for employees and other non-revenue travelers and the downline system is known as TESS (Traveler Eligibility System and Services), Crewvette, SamrtClixx and CEBS. AGS receiving requests from Amadeus after that AGS will transform all the data ( both request and responses) into Amadeus requests. AGS working as middle tier and all the data will be transforming from one gateway to another gateway.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the lifecycle of the software design process including, requirement Definition, prototyping, design, interface implementations, unit testing, Test driven development and maintenance.  • Designed and developed the application using AGILE-SCRUM methodology.  • Created Action Classes, Domain Objects Request processor for the application using Model View Controller (MVC) approach.  • Implemented Spring MVC architecture and Spring Bean Factory using IOC. Configured Bean properties using dependency injection.  • Created connections to database using Hibernate session Factory, using Hibernate APIs to retrieve and store data to the database with Hibernate transaction control.  • Designed and developed Enterprise Eligibility business objects and domain objects with Object Relational mapping framework Hibernate.  • Developed dynamic responsive Web Application by integrating Angular JS with Bootstrap which is further integrated with Web Services.  • Generating the WSDL (using Web Services) file from Spring STS.  • Involved in DevOps migration/automation processes for build and deploy systems.  • Configured and maintained Web Services and XML schema design using company business rules.  • Developed all UI Screens (Forms) using HTML, CSS, DOJO, JQuery and JavaScript.  • Involved in writing JBehave Tests(Groovy Scripts) as Functional Tests.  • Involved in SVN to Stash GIT Migration for all the services  • Implemented Test Driven Development (TDD) for Non-Revenue Gateway and Other Modules.  • Implemented transformers which will convert AGS - SWA - TESS requests/responses.  • Involved in SQL query tuning using Performance tuning.  • Involved in Pair Programming, Code Refactor.  • Communicated with the end users who opened the ticket to collect requirements.  • Coordination for application deployment for different project phases.  • Involved in fixing the defects and assigned defects to other team members.  • Used Log 4j for debugging, testing and maintaining the system state.  • Used JIRA to manage the issues/project work flow.    Environment: Java/J2EE, AWS, JDBC, Servlets, hibernate, Springs, JPA, EJB, SOAP and Restful Web Services, WSDL, Groovy, JBehave, TDD, JMS, Maven, DevOps, JQuery, JSON, AJAX , Html, CSS, Java Script, DOJO, log4j, SQL Server, Angular JS, Tomcat, SVN, Stash GIT, Eclipse, UNIX, JIRA and Agile. Java Developer Verizon Business - Irving, TX April 2012 to April 2014 Project Description: Global Contracting tool (GCT) is a global application tool is used to generate contracts/agreements. All service contracts of Verizon will flow through this system and contracts are generated based upon the constraints like products obtained, region, language, country etc.    Responsibilities:  • Validating the requirements to suit for J2EE Architecture.  • Designed and developed for the Presentation layer using JSP/Servlets and Spring MVC Framework.  • Involved in writing business logic using Spring framework.  • Responsible for implementing the J2EE design patterns like Session Facade and Data Access Objects.  • Analyzed Business Requirements and Identified mapping documents required for system and functional testing efforts for all test scenarios.  • Configuration of application using spring, Hibernate, JPA.  • Developed the application using Spring Framework that uses Model View Controller (MVC) architecture with JSP as the view.  • Developed presentation layer using JSP, HTML and CSS, JQuery.  • Extensively used Spring IOC for Dependency Injection and worked on Custom MVC Frameworks loosely based on Struts.  • Used Oracle11g database for tables creation and involved in writing SQL queries using Joins and Stored Procedures.  • Implemented various Java/J2EE design patterns like Front Controller, Factory Pattern DAO,  • DTO pattern, singleton, factory pattern, and Prototype and business delegate.  • Involved in writing Junit test cases for controller classes by using Mockito Junit Framework.  • Handled the database management using PL/SQL DML and DDL SQL statements.  • Developed JavaScript API's for Ajax with Dojo Tool kit using the Dojo components and Dojo grid.  • Worked as a Java developer and involved in design, development and Unit testing.  • Involved in writing stored procedures for handling complex queries with help of SQL Server and access them through Java Programs.  • Used GIT Hub for Version controlling.  • Worked in an Agile Environment: Attended daily Stand-up meetings and work was carried out on the basis of bi-weekly Sprints  Environment: Spring 3.1, Hibernate, JavaScript, JSP, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JQuery, XML, Mockito, Junit, Eclipse, SQL Server, GIT, Apache TOMCAT 7, Java/J2EE Developer Medicision - Wayne, PA October 2010 to March 2012 Project Description: Medecision is leader in Health Management, having server side web application for their different health care providers. Customer will choose different health care benefits out of the plan options available. The services will enable them to manage health insurance products, features, benefits and benefit values and attributes. Client interacts through web interface with web services written at back end to fetch data from database and select their plan benefits.    Responsibilities:  • Developed the application in Agile Scrum fashion. Designed the front-end screens using JSF, XHTML, HTML and Java Script and developed application using Spring framework.  • JSF ( Java Server Faces) was used for to simplify development integration of user interfaces and the operation on the values they (UI) hold.  • Configured managed beans and made available to the application by declaring them in the faces-config.xml configuration file.  • Worked with JBOSS RichFaces (JSF/Facelet technology for Rich Internet Application).  • Developed XHTML'S for presentation layer and used Java Script for validations.  • Developed batch jobs and scheduling components using Spring scheduling and Spring batch.  • Participated in the application architecture, and development tools for web solutions that fulfill the business requirements of the project.  • Involved in deploying and testing the application on Jboss server and used Maven Build automation tool to build an application.  • Involved in System requirement study, conceptual design and designing of Use Cases based on the requirements using UML modeling feature in IBM Rational Software architecture (RSA).  • Involved in troubleshoot technical issues, conduct code reviews, and enforce best practices and department development policies.  • Used JUnit for testing and check API performance. Used Object Relational Mapping tool Hibernate for the interaction with the database.  • Implemented Spring Beans using IOC and Transaction management features to handle the transactions and business logic. Integrated the JSF framework and the Spring framework together.  • Designed the various UI screens required for the loan information, financials. Used JSF MVC at presentation layers.  • Developed JMS message listeners using Spring JMS Template to consume messages from queue.  • Developed User Interface Components using JSF ( Java Server Faces). Designed web module in Spring framework for the J2EE application.  • Designed properties file that has been used by many services and written code to read this properties file.  • Worked on Oracle as the backend database and integrated with Hibernate to retrieve Data Access Objects.  • Responsible for developing Hibernate configuration file to configure the data base drivers, connection pooling, session management and mapping files to map to database tables.    Environment: Agile, Java 1.5, HTML5.0, CSS, JSP, JSTL, JSF 2.0, JavaScript, Hibernate 4, Jboss, Spring 3.2, XHTML, XML, JQuery, Oracle 11g, Subversion1.7.2, Maven2.2.1, JUnit4, UML, Apache CXF. Java/J2EE Developer Prime Soft Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2009 to September 2010 Project Description: Electronic Medical Record (EMR) is a web-based java solution that captures data from different fields, different forms to compile individual Health data that can be shared across different health care settings and different clinicians. This individual data can be compiled to generate different types of reports that can help the organizations to grow their business rapidly.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for requirement gathering analysis and documentation and designed the system using UML with OOD features.  • Designed components for the project using best practices and J2EE design patterns such as Model-View-Controller (MVC), Data Access Object, Value Object.  • Actively participated in the complete life cycle of development, from the design phase to implementation phase.  • Used Spring Framework as a middle-tier application framework, persistence strategy using spring support for Hibernate for integrating with the database.  • Developed the presentation layer written using JSP, HTML, CSS and client-side validations were done using JavaScript, jQuery, and JSON.  • Extensively used the Spring Core for Inversion of Control (IOC), Application Context and ORM modules in the project.  • Played a key role in the development of server-side functionality of handling the requests and responses using Java Servlets.  • Created Data Access Object (DAO) which is used by the Hibernate API calls to interact with the database.  • Analysis and Design of the Object models and Design Patterns in various tiers of the application.  • Developed and flexible, scalable, utilizing open source technologies like Hibernate ORM and Spring Framework.  • Developed Stored Procedures, Triggers and Functions. Actively involved in tuning SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers in Informix.  • Agile delivery of software using practices of short iterations, sprints, Scrum.  • Played an active role in testing the application by writing test cases for different scenarios.  • Responsible for unit tests and integration tests.  • Used JUnit testing tool to test the code.  • Deployed and tested the web application on WebLogic application server.    . Environment: Core Java, J2EE, JSP, JavaScript, Struts Framework, Servlets, Spring Framework, MVC, JavaBeans, Web services, JDBC, Hibernate ORM, Hibernate API, WebLogic, Oracle, PL/SQL, jQuery, JSON, JUnit, HTML, UML, Agile, CSS, Eclipse, Subversion. Education Bachelor's in Information Technology JNTU Skills DATABASE (8 years), J2EE (8 years), JAVA (8 years), jQuery (8 years), TESTING (8 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Languages Java, SQL & PL/SQL  Java Technologies  Core Java, Collections, JDBC , Multi-threading, AWT, JSP, Servlets, JSTL, JNDI, Ajax, EJB, JMS, Java Beans, Custom Tags, , RMI, JCAPS, Design Patterns    Frameworks Spring, Struts, Hibernate  Application Server IBM WebSphere, Apache Tomcat, Glass Fish, JBoss, WebLogic , TPT, CXL.  Web services SOAP, WSDL(JAX-WS), UDDI,REST(JAX-RS), APACHE CXF, AXIS, XFire  Web-Application Tools XML, XSD, JMS, Servlets, JSTL, EL, Custom Tag Library, JSP, JSF, JNDI, JPA, JAXB  Database DB2, Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL, PostgreSQL, Squirrel, Stored Procedures  Scripting Language HTML5, XML(SAX, DOM), XSL/XSLT, XPATH, Java Script, JQuery, Ajax, EXT JS, Angular JS  Core Expertise  Java GOF and J2EE design patterns, Core Java concepts - Collections, Java 1.5 features, Multi-threading, Exception handling, IO, Concurrency etc.    Version control Tools CA Harvest, CVS, SVN, IBM clear case  Build Tools Ant, Maven, Jenkins, Cruise Control  Other Tools Log4J, TOAD, SQL developer, HP Quality Center, JIRA, EMMA, Autopsy's, SOAP UI, FileZilla, Putty, Edit Plus  IDEs Spring Tool Suite, Maven, Eclipse IDE, NetBeans, RAD, WSAD, JBuilder, JDeveloper, Visual Studio.NET, Toad, Putty, JUnit, Log4j.  Logging Frameworks Log4j, Java Logging API, SLF4J  Testing Tools Junit, JMeter, Quality Center, SOAPUI  UML Tools Rational Rose, MS Visio  Operating Systems Windows, UNIX/Linux