Senior Software Developer Senior Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer - IPT Global Houston, TX • Around 12 years of IT experience in design, development, maintenance, support, testing and implementation of business software applications, Window based and Web-based environment, in Client-server architecture.  • Experience in building enterprise Applications and Distributed Systems using technologies J2EE, EJB 2.1/3.0, OpenEJB, RMI, JPA, IBM MQ Series, Active MQ, OpenJPA, JDBC, JSP, Struts, Servlets, JMS, EMS,XMLand JavaScript.  • In-depth knowledge and experience using Java, JS, Angular JS, SQL, PL SQL, HTML, DHTML, CSS, XML languages.  • Adept at developing applications using Struts as a unified MVC (model, view, controller), Spring and JSF frame work for web.  • Strong experience in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and publishing web services(Soap, Restful) that include several components like SOAP, WSDL, XML,XSD, UDDI, Axis2 and JAX-WS.  • Expertise in design and development of various web and enterprise applications using Java EE technologies like JSP, JSTL, Servlets, JDBC, Hibernate, Spring, EJB, Web Services, DB2, MySQL, Oracle, HTML5, CSS3, DHTML, AJAX, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, YUI3  • Experienced in using Objects Oriented Design, Design patterns, UML and Rational Rose.  • Proficient in using Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) principles.  • Extensive experience in GUI design using JSP, JSF, HMVC Pattern, MVC Architecture, leading to substantial reduction in time and effort.  • Use of IDE for developing environment like IRAD, Eclipse, NetBeans, Sun ONE Studio, Web Sphere Studio 7.0 8.0, Jbuilder, Web Gain Business Designer Structure Builder, Elixir Case, and Visual Source Safe and Erwin for Data base Scheme Design.  • Sound RDBMS concepts and extensively worked with Oracle 8i 9i 10g 11g, DB2, SQL Server 8.0 9.0 10.0 10.5 11.0, MySQL, MS-Access and Toad.  • Experienced in writing PL SQL procedures, Triggers in Oracle and Stored Procedures in DB2 and MySQL.  • Expertise in Developing and Deploying Enterprise Java Beans (EJB) on Application/Web Servers like WebLogic, Tomcat, WebSphere and JBoss.  • Followed strict guidelines to enforce a HIPAA-compliant EDI X12 operation.  • Worked on ConceptWave Order Management/Ericsson Order Negotiation/Ericsson Product Catalog etc..  • Experience using persistence framework like Hibernate/JPA for mapping Java classes with database and using Hibernate Query Language (HQL).  • Worked with different SDLC methodologies like RUP and Agile (TDD, SCRUM and XP) and Waterfall methodology.  • Experienced in using source code change management and version control tools Subversion, CVS, Clear Case and Microsoft Visual SourceSafe.  • Accomplished with creating Test Plans, defining Test Cases, reviewing and maintaining Test Scripts, interacting with team members in fixing errors and executing User Acceptance Testing (UAT), JUnit, System Integrated Test, Regression Test and Customer Test.  • Provided technical support for debugging web applications, database and assistance to production systems.  • Capable of Learning new technologies quickly and adapting to a new environment. Excellent Troubleshooting, Technical document writing skills.  • Excellent and efficient Team Member with good planning and monitoring skills. Ability to organize the meeting and scheduling. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Software Developer IPT Global - Houston, TX August 2018 to Present Description: Working on Ericsson Product Catalog solution for T-Mobile Prepaid program. Resurgence is a transformation project for T-Mobile. Resurgence involves many Ericsson components including ECM, EOM, EMA etc. This project involves workflow automations and end to end process flow designs for wireless business of T-Mobile.    Responsibilities:  • Design, development, testing, product catalog design and implementation using Ericsson Order Care & Ericsson Catalog Manager products with version 16.0.  • Developed UI using JSP, JavaScript, Ajax and HTML.  • Developed a Java based automation tool to convert order documents(ORDs) in excel format to an XML format  compatible with Ericsson Catalog. The tool reduced ORD processing time from a week to 5 hours.  • Developing and maintaining APIs and Catalog rules for Ericsson Catalog Manager(ECM).  • Metadata development using JavaScript on Ericsson Order Care & Catalog platform (EOC/ECM) - former Conceptwave.  • Develop SOAP based APIs.  • Participated in the designing and developing of UI Screens using JavaScript.  • Used SVN for software configuration management and version control of the development project.  • Develop catalog business rules in Rhino Script.  • Developed XSLT for transforming XML files to HTML and XSL.  • Written JUNIT test cases to test Rhino scripts and the application.  • Analyzing root causes of Ericsson Product Catalog defects and discussing them with solution architects to determine a solution.  • Ericsson/ Conceptwave Order Care Application developer using AVM 16.0, workflows and Java Script.  • Part of Performance improvement and refactoring team  • Support for Integration Testing with external system like TIBCO (WSIL), BSCS, EMA, EPE, ON and EPC.    Environment: Java 8, Rhino Server Side Scripting, Java Scripts, Web Services (REST/SOAP), Oracle, Ericsson Order Care SOA Framework, JConsole, Git, Ericsson/Concept Wave Product Catalog v16.0, Eclipse. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Merkle Inc - Columbia, MD February 2015 to August 2018 Description: Health Care Service Corporation (HCSC) has medical policies that serve as guidelines for health care benefit coverage decisions, which may vary according to the different products and benefit plans offered by each state. Health Care reform and Insurance Exchange implementations resulted in increased opportunities for obtaining new members in untapped markets. HCSC's response to anticipate market place shifts is NGEN (HCSC Next Generation). NGEN is a multi-year program that addresses not only business process and technology changes, but also potential internal organizational changes.  Project: Retail enrolment system (RES), focused on enrollment to insurance policy.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for requirement gathering from the Business Analysts and for preparing the requirement specification document Developed cross platform front ends using *HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AngularJS  • Involved in development of the applications using Spring Web MVC and other components of the Spring Framework, the controller being Spring Core (Dispatcher Servlet)  • Implemented controller (abstract) and mapped it to a URL in .servlet.xml file. Implemented JSP corresponding to the controller where in the data was propagated into it from the model and view object from the controller Designed and Implemented MVC architecture using Spring Framework, which involved writing Action Classes/Forms/Custom Tag Libraries & JSP pages.  • Designed, developed and maintained the data layer using Hibernate and performed configuration of Spring Application Framework.  • JavaScript animations* and interactive* HTML5 components using jQuery & AJAX.  • Used Hibernate to store the persistence data into the IBM DB2 UDB database and written HQL to access the data from the database wrote JavaScript functions.  • Used JMS ( Java Messaging Service) for asynchronous communication between different modules  • Used XML, WSDL, UDDI, SOAP Web Services for communicating data between different applications  • Worked with QA team to design test plan and test cases for User Acceptance Testing (UAT)    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring MVC, Hibernate, HTML, JavaScript Angular.JS JQuery, JSP, CSS, JDBC, DB2, SVN. Sr Java/J2EE Developer Fidelity National Financial, NC January 2013 to February 2015 Project: XES- (Xpress Enterprise Solutions)  XES - (Xpress Enterprise Solutions)    Description: Xpress Enterprise Solutions is a middleware application which provides an integration HUB comprised of content-rich services built on industry standard integration principles. XES implementation is based on Service Oriented Architecture used for both Fidelity and Non-Fidelity Applications related different modules like Core Banking, Brokerage and Investment Banking. I was involved in developing the Page navigations of the Customer Relation Pages using Spring framework3.0, performed client side validations using Java script, single application pages using Angular JS, worked on XML for transferring information through different layers.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in study of User Requirement Specification. Requested insufficient  • Information and helped clearing ambiguity in requirements document.  • Updated and managed existing websites properties for Fidelity employees.  • Implemented Hibernate/JPA for data persistence  • Designed and implemented application using JSP, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring Annotations, Spring AOP, Spring Transactions, Hibernate, Oracle.  • Involved in developing Class diagrams in UML showing generalization and other relationships, sequence diagram describing the interaction of objects over time.  • Used Apache Axis2 to create artifacts required for invoking SOAP webservices.  • Analysis and Design of various modules using SOA and J2EE stack.  • Involved in design, develop and implementation of the application using Spring 3.2 and j2EE framework.  • Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several design patterns such as Composite View, Session Façade, Business Delegate, Bean Factory, Singleton, Data Access Object, and Service Locator.  • Wrote annotated POJO classes which contain business logic to map database tables with java objects.  • Created connections to database using Hibernate session Factory, using Hibernate APIs to retrieve and store data to the database with Hibernate transaction control.  • Implemented persistence layer using various features of Hibernate 3.0 framework like HQL queries, Criteria etc.  • Worked with Weblogic Application Server 10.0 as application server and Tomcat as web server.  • Assisted Oracle DB development team in developing stored procedures and designing the database.  • Used Rational Rose as part of development of Rules.  • Used Sub version as versioning system.  • Used Maven for project builds.  • Used SQL Developer, TOAD, XML SPY, ultra-Edit as tools in building the Application.  • Developed User- Interface using JSP, JavaScript, Html, CSS3.0, Angular JS and XML DOM parser.  • Wrote Unit test cases using Junit.  • Interacted with Business Analysts to come up with better implementation designs for the application.  • Design and Development of software components like Interface, Action Handlers,    Environment: JAVA JDK 1.6,1.7, J2EE, Servlets, Hibernate 3.0/4.0, Apache Axis2, SOAP Web Services , Spring Framework 3.0, HTML4.0, JUnit, JavaScript, JDBC, PL/SQL, XML, UML, UNIX, Windows XP, Oracle 10g, Web logic Application Server 10.3, Tomcat 7.0, Maven, Putty, AngularJS, JPA 2.1, Agile scrum. Senior Java/J2EE Developer CitiGroup - Township of Warren - Township of Warren, NJ June 2011 to January 2013 Project: Brokerage Historical Documents Platform (BDOC)    Description: BDOC is a web based application which utilizes for providing online support. This Application was build using Ajax, JavaScript, Springs Frame work and MVC architecture and This application provides rich User Interface and immediate processing for their search of Enterprise Financial Services, Common Proposals and Financial Planning related documents based on role authentication to support users. This also provides rich User Interface for providing authorization permissions for users to view EFS, CPS and FPT documents.    Responsibilities:  • Extensively used Core Spring Framework for Dependency Injections of components and integrated with Hibernate.  • Used AJAX and JavaScript for validations and integrating business server side components on the client side with in the browser  • Created frontend, client side development and Validation using EXTJS framework, Dojo, JS respectively.  • Developed UI screens using YUI, CSS and JQuery.  • Developed SOAP web services utilizing business logic for CRUD functionality and RestEasy web services for creating reports.  • Worked on PL/SQL and created views, triggers, procedures, function and stored procedures.  • Developed Java and EJB in Mainframe DB2 environment  • Design and Developed using Web Service using Apache CXF.  • Used Web Services (SOAP) for transmission of large blocks of XML data between two interfaces.  • Developed the Web Services Client using SOAP, WSDL description to verify the credit history of the new customer to provide a connection.  • Worked on WebSphere Portal integration with WBISF in getting Work Items raised by the process flows from WBISF.  • Used Subversion for software version control.  • Used JUnit framework for unit testing of application and Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  • Designed and developed the application using agile methodology and followed TDD, Scrum.  • Designed UML diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Developed AJAX scripting to process server side JSP scripting.  • Developed JSPs using EL language and JSTL tags.  • Developed JSP pages and Servlets for customer maintenance.  • Used the Eclipse as IDE, configured and deployed the application onto WebLogic application server using Maven/ANT build scripts to automate the build and deployment process.  • Used Web Services for creating rate summary and used WSDL and SOAP messages for getting insurance plans from different module and used XML parsers(JAXB) for data retrieval.  • Developed order receipt report with bar code using lowage iText and jasper report.  • Design, implementation, and development of Oracle ECM workflows to meet the requirements of the business user  • Created user interface and backend server application using Java, Google Web Toolkit, Spring, Tomcat, and GIS  • Usage of version control repository SVN (Subversion by apache), JIRA/ Quality Center for ticketing, Wiki for documentation, Jenkins for nightly build.  • Developed a smart rule engine for CAS that tracks, alerts, emails and generates Crystal/Jasper reports for decision-makers in a company about any customer-employee issue whenever the rule is applicable.  • Worked on designing and creating business rules using IBM ILOG Rules Engine.  • Worked on major architectural changes in various applications such as maven upgrades, drools- JRules conversion and incorporated CXF services for automated testing.  • Developed Approved requirements with assign share functionality using JSP and mail notification using JMS.  • Designed an 'Online Tutorial Forum' .Development of the forum was done using technologies such as HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and using Apache tomcat in spring.  • Deployed the applications in Linux, Windows servers using deployment scripts.    Environment: Java5, J2ee, Spring, Hibernate3.0, Struts2.0, AJAX, JSF, EXTJS, JavaScript, Dojo, CSS2.0, HTML4, CRUD, PL/SQL, JDBC, DB2, Apache CXF2.x , SOAP, Web Services, Eclipse, WebSphere Portal, Subversion, Junit, Scrum, UML, JSP, JSTL, Servlets, Maven2.1, XML , iText, Oracle ECM, Google Web Toolkit, JIRA, Jasper reports, ILOG, JRules, Web 2.0, SOA, JMS, Apache tomcat5.5, Linux, Windows Server2012. Java / J2EE Developer Texas Health and Human Services - Austin, TX March 2009 to June 2011 Project: MEDICAD    Description: This application primarily used to monitor state contract. It allows to renewal current contract, modify contract and stores changes in contract. This application is used by Texas state employee and Texas vendor. It acts primary communication between state and vendor people. My role is to Design the patterns, transferring data through different layers, exposing the web services.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC): Requirements gathering, Design, Code, Integrating, and Deployment and production phases.  • Implemented Jakarta Struts Framework2.0 along with JSP2.0, Struts Tiles, and Struts Tag libraries to facilitate user interface design.  • Developed validations using Struts validation framework.  • Developed Stateless Session Beans to transfer calls from presentation tier to data services tier.  • Adapted various design patterns like Business Delegate, Singleton, Service locator, Session Façade, Data Transfer Objects DTO and Data Access Objects DAO patterns.  • Used Web Services to communicate with different application.  • JAXB parser for marshaling and unmarshaling.  • Working with WSDL and SOAP messages.  • Designed EJB2.1 like Stateless Session Bean for the Session Facade design pattern.  • Used Hibernate3.1 to store the persistence data into the Oracle9i database.  • Used Web Sphere MQ for enterprise level messaging system.  • JMS was used to send/receive asynchronous data from various message brokers.  • Worked on Proof-of-Concept by developing the Responsive UI to render the content from the FileNet.  • Involved in writing the ANT scripts to build the application.  • Involved in using Log4J to create log files to debug.  • Used Rational Clear case for version control.  • Used JUnit Testing Framework for Unit Level Testing.  • Worked in IBM RAD 6.0 to develop complete application  • Deployed the application on Web Sphere Application Server6.0 (WAS)    Environment: WAS 6.0, RAD 6.0, Struts 1.2, EJB 2.1, Servlet 2.3, Struts, HTML4, JSP 2.0, JNDI, Web Services, JMS, SOAP, IBM MQSeries(Web Sphere MQ), JavaScript, WSDL, UNIX, Oracle 9i, IBM FileNet, Unit, Rational Clear Case, Log4J and ANT 1.7. Java Developer Cross Country HealthCare - Boca Raton, FL February 2008 to March 2009 Description: Cross Country Infotech Private Limited responds to the IT and software requirements of its parent company - Cross Country Healthcare, Inc. CCH is one of the largest healthcare staffing companies in the United States. The company has a varied client base and has thousands of contracts with hospitals and healthcare facilities, pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers and other healthcare organizations in all the 50 states of the U.S. By delivery of innovative IT solutions and high compliance to Service Level Agreements (SLAs), ensures that healthcare professionals (HCPs) and healthcare assignments fit like a glove.  The wide range of Web applications, Web portals, and mobile applications allow HCPs to filter through assignments in real time and find the best opportunity to advance their careers. Services are completely client-focused so that all possible options for HCPs quickest career growth are made available.    Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile methodology and used Test Driven Development  • Developed online Application form for Risk Tolerance Questionnaire for CMS and developed a framework to produce PDF for the online Application Forms  • Developed Monitoring, logging and exception handling frame works.  • Designed and developed web based UI using JSP, Struts Taglibs and developed action classes to handle the user request  • Developed validation frame work using struts dynaction classes and validation frame work to handle client side validations  • Developed Stateless session beans to parse (parser frame work) and process the user request into domain object (DAO design pattern) to delegate the business request to the business delegate object  • Worked on HIPAA 5010(834) standards for the electronic exchange of member enrollment information.  • Developed DAO layer using JDBC, DAO design pattern to handle the interaction with Data base (Oracle)  • Developed testing frame work for User Interface and server side components using testing frame works like HTTPUnit, Cactus and JUnit  • Integrated JUnit testing tool with Apache's Ant build tool in order to automate unit and regression testing to ensure the system stability  • Used several design patterns like business delegate, DAO and front controller in the development process  • Developed UNIX automated deployment scripts for QA and Developing environments    Environment: Java EE, EJB, Spring Framework, JSP, XML XSLT, SAX, spring 3.0, Web sphere, JavaScript, Oracle, Toad, CVS, Junit. Java Developer World Bank - Washington, DC August 2007 to February 2008 Project: Risk and Portfolio Management System (RAPMAN)    Description: World Bank uses the Risk and Portfolio Management System (RAPMAN) to assess and monitor the financial risk in its lending projects. The purpose of such a risk model is to identify risk profile of all projects, enabling the FMT to give greater emphasis on high and substantial risk projects during the project preparation as well as project supervision. RAPMAN provides a highly flexible, configurable, scalable and robust system built on 3 tier architecture using Jakarta Struts and web based crystal reports to meet this need.  The GDLN AMS aims at providing a software medium to create, track and deploy learning courses for various Distant Learning Centers (DLC's) associated with the World Bank Institute. The system would facilitate direct interaction between third party vendors (Program partners), World Bank Staff and Distant Learning Centers.    Responsibilities:  • Understanding Use requirements participating in design discussions, implementation feasibility analysis both at front-end and backend level, documenting requirements.  • Using RUP and Rational Rose, developed Use Cases, created Class, Sequence and UML diagrams.  • Application Modeling, developing Class diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Architecture / Deployment diagrams using IBM Rational Software Modeler and publishing them to web perspective with Java Doc.  • Participation did in Design Review sessions for development / implementation discussions.  • Designed & coded Presentation (GUI) JSP's with Struts tag libraries for Creating Product Service Components (Health Care Codes) using RAD.  • Developing Test Cases and unit testing using JUnit  • Coded Action classes, Java Beans, Service layers, Business delegates, to implement business logic with latest features of JDK1.5 such as Annotations and Generics.  • Extensive use of AJAX and JavaScript for front-end validations, and JavaScript based component development using EXT JS Framework with cross browser support.  • Appropriate use of Session handling, data Scope levels within the application.  • Designed and developed DAO layer with Hibernate3.0 standards, to access data from IBM DB2 database through JPA ( Java Persistence API) layer creating Object-Relational Mappings and writing PL/SQL procedures and functions  • Integrating Spring injections for DAOs to achieve Inversion of Control, updating Spring Configurations for managing Java objects using callbacks  • Application integration with Spring Web Services to fetch data from external Benefits application using SOA architecture, configuring WSDL based on SOAP specifications and marshalling and un-marshalling using JAXB  • Prepared and executed JUNIT test cases to test the application service layer operations before DAO integration  • Creating test environments with WAS for local testing using test profile. And interacting with Software Quality Assurance (SQA) end to report and fix defects using Rational Clear Quest.  • Creating views and updating code to IBM Rational Clear case for Source code control.  • Solving QA defects, scheduling fixes, providing support to production application.    Environment: Java JDK 1.5, JSP, JSP Custom Tag libraries, JavaScript, EXT JS, AJAX, XSLT, XML, DOM4J 1.6, EJB, DHTML, Web Services, SOA, WSDL, SOAP, JAXB, IBM RAD, IBM WebSphere Application server 7.0, IBM DB2 8.1, UNIX, UML, IBM Rational Clear case, JMS, Spring Framework, Hibernate 3.0, PL/SQL, JUNIT 3.8, log4j 1.2, Ant 1.7.1. Education Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science in Computer Science Stanford University Skills Awt, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate