Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - US Bank Minneapolis, MN • Having 5 years of strong experience in software development using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Highly motivated team player with the ability to work independently and adapt quickly to new and emerging technologies.  • Involved in the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) phases which include Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance.  • Extensive experience working in a Test-Driven Development and Agile-Scrum Development.  • Experience in JAVA/J2EE server side and client-side programming.  • Have Extensive knowledge in design and implementation of web applications using J2EE (Servlets, JSP,JSF, JSTL, JPA, JMS, JDBC) and XML technologies (XML Schema, XML, XSD, XSL and XSLT).  • Implemented the application modules using Spring Boot, Spring Core, Spring Security, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring JDBC, and Spring Batch in order to develop the application.  • Implemented Spring Services and business operations using Dependency Injection.  • Experience in developing web applications with various open source frameworks: Spring Framework, Spring (MVC), Hibernate ORM and Struts.  • Experienced in using Hibernate with JPA for implementing DAO layer.  • Experience in Developing applications based on Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture using core design patterns (creational, structural, behavioral) and J2EE design patterns (Data Access Object, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Session Façade).  • Extensively used and implemented Interfaces, OOP concepts, Collections, Exceptional Handling, JVM, Garbage collections, Multi-threading, Compositions and aggregations.  • Expertise in developing Middle-Tier components using Enterprise Java Beans (EJB) and other Remote Components.  • Experienced with Middleware Technology Messaging Brokers like JMS, Active MQ, IBM MQ and Mule ESB (Enterprise Service Bus) in SOA (Service Oriented Architecture).  • Experience in Azure infrastructure management Azure Storage, Azure AD and Office365.  • Experience in dealing with Windows Azure IaaS - Virtual Networks, Virtual Machines, Cloud Services, Resource Groups, Express Route, VPN, Load Balancing, Application Gateways, Auto-Scaling and Traffic Manager.  • Experience and in-depth Knowledge of understanding in the strategy and practical implementation of AWS Cloud-Specific technologies including EC2, EBS, S3, ELB, Lambda, SNS, Dynamo DB, IAM and Cloud Watch.  • Expertise in developing inter-operable Web Services using SOA (Service Oriented Architecture). Web Service include technologies like REST, SOAP, WSDL, XML, JAX-WS, JAXB, JAX-RPC using tools like Apache Axis.  • Experience in using JAX-RS, Spring, Apache CXF and Jersey to develop Restful web services.  • Designed and developed the REST based Microservices using the Spring Boot, Spring Data with JPA ( Java Persistence API) and deployed Microservices onto Docker.  • Strong expertise in developing user-friendly web interfaces using HTML, HTML5, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, and JQuery.  • Utilized AngularJS framework to bind AngularJS template views to JavaScript object models.  • Hands on experience using Bootstrap and Angular JS for changing styles dynamically, creating animating effects and manipulating DOM structures.  • Proficient in dealing with challenging High Traffic Websites and Cross Browser Issues handling.  • Expert in writing complex SQL Queries PL/SQL stored procedures, functions, triggers, packages with different databases like Oracle, MySQL.  • Expertise in database modeling and development using SQL, T-SQL and PL/SQL in Oracle and SQL Server environments.  • Good experience with Cassandra Database.  • Experienced in working with QA team to write, implement test cases using Junit and involved in integration testing.  • Experience in working with Mockito and Hands on experience in working with Selenium and Groovy Spock.  • Experience in Implementing Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment (CI/CD) using Jenkins, Concord, AWS Code Deploy, AWS OpsWorks.  • Expertise in Business Modeling and UML Diagrams (Use Case Diagrams, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams) using MS Visio and Rational Rose.  • Highly conversant with quality procedures that are followed both at organization level as well as client specific level.  • Experienced in working with build tools like Ant, Gradle and Maven.  • Experience in working with application development environments using BEA Web Logic, Apache Tomcat, JBOSS and IBM Web Sphere Application Server.  • Experience in working in Windows, Linux and UNIX platforms including programming and debugging skills in UNIX Shell Scripting.  • Experience in using various Configuration Management tools like CVS, GIT and SVN.  • Good Knowledge of using IDE Tools like Eclipse, Intellij, NetBeans, JBuilder, Rational Application Developer (RAD) for Java/J2EE application development. Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer US Bank - Minneapolis, MN October 2018 to Present Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Requirement Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance.  • Involved in Daily Scrum (Agile) meetings, Sprint planning and estimation of the tasks for the user stories, participated in retrospective and presenting Demo at end of the sprint.  • Developed Business objects using POJOs and data access layer using Hibernate framework.  • Extensively Implemented Spring Boot, dependency Injection (DI) and AOP.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST API's and Spring Boot for Microservices.  • Involved in the implementation of the RESTful web services using the Spring Boot and to perform CRUD operation from the database, published the REST services. parsed the data to project to client and handled  • The security and Authorization using Spring Security. Spring security OAuth can be used for authentication and authorization purposes in application.  • Designed and developed Spring Boot adapter applications using Rest API.  • Implemented Microservices based Cloud Architecture utilizing Spring Boot.  • Designed and created Microservices business segments and RESTful administration endpoints utilizing Spring Boot.  • Developed Spring Boot applications using spring data. Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud Microservices.  • To generate reports for the batch services used the Spring Batch, created test cases of Junit for testing the DAO layer.  • Performed configuration, deployment and support of cloud services including Amazon Web Services (AWS). Launch various AWS EC2 instance to deploy the application. Practical implementation of AWS S3, EBS.  • Experience in Azure infrastructure management Azure Storage and Azure AD  • Developed UI of the application by using HTML, HTML5, DHTML, CSS, XML, XPATH, XSLT, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, AJAX, JSP's, JSTL.  • Developed various generic JavaScript, Angular functions to implement client-side validations.  • Created features like dropdown list, search function and card model by using AngularJS material.  • Used Hibernate ORM framework to develop Data Access Layer.  • Good understanding of NoSQL Data bases and hands on work experience in writing application on No SQL databases like Cassandra and Mongo DB.  • Installed, configured, and managed the server such as WebSphere 8.5.5.9 in a clustered environment.  • Used Gradle as a build tool in this project for the tasks like building scripts, minifying and bundling the JavaScript files.  • Used Continuous delivery / Continuous Integration (CD/CI) tools Docker, Jenkins to deploy this application to AWS and used GIT for Version Control of code for incremental development.  • Used Tomcat as web server to store the static contents and JBoss as application server.  Developed the JSON structure for the data transfer in between the Client and Server layer.  • Created unit test cases for Smoke & Regression Testing using Cucumber and Junit testing framework.  • Application deployment and debugging is performed in Linux environment and used Putty/ WinSCP to access the Server Logs.  • Involved in creation of an automated build environment for application using Jenkins, SVN, Maven, and deployed JAR, WAR, EAR files.  Environment: Java 1.7, Spring 4.2.0, Hibernate, Spring Boot, Microservices, Maven 3.3.1, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AWS, SOAP, RESTful, Angular JS, NO SQL, Jasper Report 5.5.1, Log4J, Junit, Jenkins, Red Hat Linux 7.2, SVN, GIT, JSON, Tomcat, JBoss, Docker, CI/CD and Gradle. Java Developer Highmark Health Solutions - Pittsburgh, PA May 2017 to September 2018 Roles and Responsibilities:  • The project was implemented using the Agile Scrum Methodology.  • Defined and constructed layers, server-side objects and client-side interfaces based on J2EE design patterns, Developed and implemented Swing, spring and J2EE based MVC (Model-View-Controller) framework for the application.  • Designing and implementing the User Interface using OO JavaScript, Angular JS, HTML, CSS, and AJAX.  • Designed Prototype and project layout skeletons using AngularJS, jQuery and HTML5.  • Actively used XML (documents and transformations) for creating templates with dynamic data from XML file.  • Used JSP and JSTL Tag Libraries for developing User Interface components.  • Implemented the associated business modules integration using Spring and Hibernate data mapping.  • Used spring dependency injection, annotations and Spring MVC components to implement REST API s, business layer and navigation part of application.  • Good working experience in Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Batch.  • Designed and developed Microservices using REST framework and Spring Boot.  • Developed several REST web services which produces both XML and JSON to perform tasks, leveraged by both web and mobile applications.  • Developed Business layer using REST Service to consume the SOAP service for CURD operations on the database.  • Developed new features for a REST SOA backend in Closure and evolution of an end- tire backend architecture.  • Created AWS Security Groups for deploying and configuring AWS EC2 instances.  • Performed configuration, deployment and support of cloud services including Amazon Web Services.  • Experienced in JMS over messaging to exchange the information in reliable and asynchronous way in enterprise.  • Strong experience in working with Relational databases like Oracle, MySQL and Microsoft SQL.  • Unit tested services using JUnit with Mockito framework and for integration testing used Spring with Junit.  • Configured and built Spring MVC application on Tomcat web server.  • Worked with GIT which is used as a version control tool in the project.  • Used Maven as build tool and Jenkins for continuous deployment and integration of the build and release process.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Agile, Angular JS, HTML, CSS, AJAX, jQuery, JSP, JSTL, Spring, Hibernate, Spring MVC, REST API, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, REST, SOAP, SOA, AWS. JMS, Oracle, Junit, Mockito, Tomcat web server, GIT, Maven, CI/CD and Jenkins. Java Developer Enterprise Rent-A-Car - St. Louis, MO January 2016 to April 2017 Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modeling, analysis, design, development and testing.  • Generated the use case diagrams, Activity diagrams, Class diagrams and Sequence Diagrams in the design phase using Star UML tool.  • Developed various helper classes needed following Core Java multi-threaded programming and Collection classes.  • Developed the User Interface using JSP, Spring MVC frameworks, JQuery, AngularJS. Used AJAX and JavaScript for Server side/client-side validation.  • Developed and executed software systems utilizing JavaScript and Groovy.  • Used Spring framework AOP features and JDBC module features to persist the data to the database for few applications. Also used the Spring IOC feature to get hibernate session factory and resolve other bean dependencies.  • Developed the persistence layer using Hibernate Framework by configuring the 1:1/1: M /M: M mappings in hibernate mapping files and created DAO and PO.  • Created RESTful web services interface to Java-based runtime engine and accounts.  • Used JAX-WS and Metro stack for building of Web Services. Also developed the web service client applications to test the web services. Tested the web service using SOAP UI.  • Developed an API to write XML documents from a database. Utilized XML and XSL Transformation for dynamic web-content and database connectivity.  • Done thorough code walk through for the team members to check the functional coverage and coding standards.  • Actively involved in writing SQL using SQL query builder.  • Actively used the defect tracking tool JIRA to create and track the defects during QA phase of the project.  • Used Tortoise SVN to maintain the version of the files and took the responsibility to do the code merges from branch to trunk and creating new branch when new feature implementation starts.  • Used DAO pattern to retrieve the data from database.  • Worked with WebSphere 6.1 application server that handles various requests from Client.  • Developed test cases using JUnit.  • Developed the build scripts using Maven.  Environment: Java 7, Hibernate 3.0, Spring, Servlets, XML, Tortoise SVN, JSP, Spring MVC, Star UML, JUnit, Maven, WebSphere, AXIS 1.2, UML, SOA, JAX-WS, Sun Metro stack, RESTful, SOAP UI, Log4J, SOAP,JDBC,SQL, Oracle 10g, WSDL, JavaScript, Angular Js, Groovy, AJAX, JIRA and RAD 8.0 software Developer Indus Business Systems - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2014 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  • Identified the Business requirements of the project. Worked on Single-Sign-On (SSO) project.  • Designed and developed the UI using JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax and JSON.  • Developed multiple user tools with core Java and DB2 using eclipse IDE.  • Implemented multiple design patterns like factory, façade, etc.  • Extensive code reviews on adherence to design and performance.  • Extensive real time production support.  • Designed and implemented XML parsing for XML order conformations.  • Designed and implemented database connection pool for making the system immune to database restarts which in turn reduced the downtime of the system.  • Implemented Producer Consumer pattern to perform updates on database.  • Used Spring for creating the object using dependency injection (IOC).  • Developed the web-services and analysis of SOAP envelope using SOAP UI.  • Created Rest web services using JAX-RS, Hibernate framework.  • Development of reconciliation reports website using Spring MVC, Spring AOP and Hibernate.  • Redesigned the existing code to create smaller chunks of big tasks to be executed by individual worker thread independently.  • Monitored the error logs and fixed the problems.  • Developed the different components of the application such as JSP, Servlets, DAO and Used Sub Version (SVN) for version control.  • Developed the database for storing the login user details and the roles of the user to access the UI.  • Provided Technical support for production environments resolving the issues, analyzing the defects, providing and implementing the solution defects.  Environment: Java, J2EE, WebLogic 11.1.1, JSP1.2, JavaScript, JMS, Struts 1.3, HTML, CSS, Ajax, DB2selectors, pseudo classes, REST services, Angular JS, SOAP, Spring, Hibernate 3.0, Session Bean (EJB), Oracle 10g. Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jboss, jquery, Jsp, Jstl, Servlets, Struts, Git, Gradle, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Orm, Scripting, Svn, Xml Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Programming Java/J2EE (JSP, Servlets, JSTL, and other java related technologies.)  Scripting JQuery, JavaScript, Shell Script  Frameworks Spring (MVC, AOP, ORM, Web Service, DAO, IOC, Social, Security.), Azure, Hibernate, Spring boot, Bootstrap, Struts  IDE Eclipse, IntelliJ, NetBeans, IBM Rational Application Developer (RAD)  Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS, SSL, XML, AJAX, Web Services, REST, Angular  Web Servers JBoss, WebLogic, WebSphere, Tomcat, Jetty, Apache  Databases Oracle, MySQL, MSSQL Server, Cassandra, Mongo DB  Database Tools SQL Developer, TOAD, MSSQL Server Management Studio  Build Tools Gradle, Maven, ANT  Other Tools JIRA, Confluence, Bamboo  Version Control Git, SVN, CVS, VSS (Visual Source Safe)  Operating Systems Windows, Linux, Unix