Senior Java Developer Senior <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Java Developer - Wallet System To pursue a career with a company having a global vision that encourages creativity and offers an opportunity to learn and  develop both in professional and personal life, wish to use and enhance my technical knowledge and ability to work in groups. Work Experience Senior Java Developer Wallet System January 2017 to Present Product Description Arttha brings world class financial services to your smart-phone, providing a highly secure, user-friendly  app for all your payment needs.  Role Senior Java Developer  Period 16/01/2017 to Present - 2 year 2 months  Technical Skills Java 1.6, Struts 2, Spring 4.0, Hibernate 4.0, Jquery, Restful Webservices  Client Implementation Mandiri Ecash & Branchless Banking (Indonesia)- (Sr. Developer)    Ecash and Branchless banking is an integrated multi tenant solution that supports wallet payments as well as branchless banking over multiple interfaces and channels.  • Designed and worked on Ecash apis for various channels like  Linepay, Manpay, Grab, Indomaret, Alfamidi etc  • Worked on features like multitenant, settlement and chargeback  • Worked on JWT authentication and HSM integartion  • Worked on CBS integeration.    Zuulu Pay (Senegal)- (Sr. Developer)  It is a digital payment solution to make peer to peer payments, topup and bill payments.  • Worked on various enhancements and introduced new features like electricity prepaid payment, water bill payment etc.    Arttha Nepal - (Sr. Developer)  It is a digital payment solution to make peer to peer payments, topup and bill payments.  • Worked on issue management and various integerations like  NEA, SUBISU, SMARTCELL, NETTV, WORLD LINK, VIANET, WATER etc  Resume    Nysa Communication Experience Summary: Java Developer EON - Examination Online Product August 2015 to January 2017 Period 15/08/2015 to 15/01/2017 - 1 year 4 months  Technical Skills Java 1.6, Spring 4.0, Hibernate 4.0, JQuery, JavaScript and Gradle.  Project Description Online Examination system  Roles and • Communication with the client, users and other module owners  Responsibility • Responsible to gather the requirements.  • Had ownership of developing end to end flow of the Product.  • Used Spring IOC and MVC along with Core Java to write the business logic.  • Hibernate 4.0 was used as an ORM tool to interact with the database.    TCS Experience Summary:  Customer Walgreen Company (Walgreens) - The largest drug retailing chain in the United States    Role Developer  Technical Skills Java Script, Core Java, Collection framework, Multithreading, Springs, Hibernate and MyBatis and ORACLE Database.  Project Description PVT was a migration project from .Net to Java to enhance the performance. It is a tool to generate the plano validation reports, used by the store managers to manage how items could be displayed in planograms (Structural view of the product that is displayed in Walgreens stores).  Pars and FileNet is a production support and enhancement project developed using Java, Servlets, Jsp, Springs, Hibernate and Oracle database.  Batches are written in Unix and Java to process and transfer data and file.  Roles and Responsibilities  PVT (Plano Validation Report):  • Responsible to gather the requirements.  • Had ownership of developing end to end flow of the four screens containing reports.  • Bounce Framework (An internal framework of Walgreens) was used to develop the screens.  • At frontend Slick-Grid was used to populate the reports and Java script was used for validation.  • Used Spring IOC and MVC along with Core Java to write the business logic.  • MyBatis was used as an ORM tool to interact with the database.  • Had responsibility to optimize the Oracle Queries to enhance the performance.  • Support formal testing and resolve the test defects.    Pars and File Net:  • Responsible for enhancement to improve the performance of cache.Hashtable was changed to  ConcurrentHashMap.  • Responsible for ongoing enhancement to develop a screen using Springs and Hibernate to populate data from database and giving edit and add functionality at the record level.  • Communication with the client, users and other module owners.  • Providing support service to the client & user.  • Resolving the production issues and provide the solution to at the best possible time to minimize the impact of Business.  • Guiding and managing subordinates.  • Handling critical deliverables and enhancement in the team.  Resume    Customer Matson, Inc. - A public shipping company, provides shipping services Pacific-wide, mainly to and from the Hawaiian islands  Role Junior DBA  Technical Skills MYSQL, Stored procedures, Triggers, Performance tuning of Queries.  Project Description GATES was a reverse engineering project which was developed for the Matson employee for booking,  billing and tracking of vessels. Existing application was in Mainframe and DB2.Application was to be  developed in Java and MySql.  Roles and GATES  Responsibilities • Responsible for Data Migration, Data Synchronization, Data Analysis and Optimization of  Queries.  • Responsible for creating analyzing the Stored procedures and Triggers.  • Handle any database issue faced by development team. Education B.Tech Information 2012