Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Philadelphia,PA, PA • 8+ years of experience as a Front End/Web/UI Developer with solid understanding of Web Development and developing User Interface and experience (UI/UX) applications and web applications using HTML4/5, CSS2/3, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, Backbone.js, Angular.js, JSON and XML.  • Experience in all phases of software development life cycle (SDLC), which includes User Interaction, Business Analysis/Modeling, Design/Architecture, Development, Implementation, Integration, Documentation, Testing, and Deployment.  • Experience in client-side languages & frameworks like JavaScript, JQuery, Backbone.js, Angular.js; server-side languages like Node.js.  • Hands on experience with module definitions like AMD (Asynchronous Module Definition) and Common JS.  • Expertise in using task managers and orchestrators like Grunt and Gulp respectively.  • Hands on experience working and customizing CSS Frameworks like Bootstrap & Foundation using OOCSS and BEM patterns.  • Experience in developing and implementing Responsive Web Design (RWD) with cross browser compatibility support in browsers following W3C standards; Debug issues using tools like Browserstack.  • Expertise in using IDE tools like Eclipse, Sublime Text, Atom, Notepad++ and Dreamweaver.  • Expertise in analyzing the DOM Layout, Spring MVC, Java Script functions, Cascading Styles across cross-browser using Fire Bug, Chrome Developer Tools.  • Experience in creating style guides, best practices and setting UI standards for enterprise/consumer applications.  • Sound knowledge in working with browsers compatibility issues with browsers like IE, Firefox, safari, Opera, Google Chrome.  • Involved in designing the user experience interface UI/UX strategy, UI requirements, converting findings into UI designs  • Experience with Complex CSS layout, browser consistency, platform independent design.  • Experience in developing web applications using MVC architecture.  • Expertise in working with SPA's (Single Page Applications) using various frameworks like jQuery, Backbone.js and Angular.js  • Highly proficient in design/development of standalone and web applications using XML, JSON, Ajax, Tomcat and Apache, Web Sphere Application server.  • Experience in Angular.js features like Two Way Binding, Custom Directives, Controllers, Filters, Services and Project Architecture.  • Hands on experience in implementing and consuming various Node.js modules.  • Involved in design and development of table-less CSS Layouts as per W3C standards.  • Expertise in using various VCS (Version Control Software) tools like Git, SVN and Mercurial.  • Involved in a TDD (Test Driven Development) environment; Hands on experience in testing frameworks and tools like Jasmine, Mocha & Karma.  • Commendable involvement in understanding functional specifications and developing creative solutions to meet business requirements.  • Good analytical and communication skills with capability to handle new technologies.  • Worked closely with the project management and marketing team to completely define specifications to help ensure project acceptance. Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer Philadelphia, PA June 2015 to Present Description:. Chubb is the world's largest publicly traded property and casualty insurer. With operations in 54 countries, Chubb provides commercial and personal property and casualty insurance, personal accident and supplemental health insurance, reinsurance and life insurance to a diverse group of clients.    Responsibilities:  • Developed UI for web platform using JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JQuery validations and JSON.  • Worked on various enhancements and bug fixes simultaneously JSON for storing and exchanging information between browsers and servers.  • Used JavaScript, JQuery for user interactions in pages; Involved in writing and modifying procedure, Queries, Views and Triggers and called them from JavaScript using the local application framework.  • Developed the administrative UI using Angular.js; Implemented CSS based animations using Angular.js.  • Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards.  • Used CSS preprocessor LESS for dynamically styling; Developed HTML templates and performed client side Validation using Java Script.  • Used Gulp as an orchestrator to build frontend assets.  • Created client surveys and displayed the results in a dynamic report using D3.JS along with a third party plugin Angular-nvd3.js, time formatting using Moment.js.  • Used Bootstrap framework for developing customizable and fully responsive for various screen sizes in mobile, tablet and desktop. Extensively used SOAP-based web services.  • Responsible for Coding, Unit Testing and Functional Testing and Regression Testing of the systems.  • Expert in HTML/CSS development and have experience in Angular JS, Backbone.js, design.  • Worked on Responsive Designing for Mobiles and Tables; For mobile web, used Angular Ionic framework.  • Responsible to manipulate HTML, CSS in JQuery as well as making page's dynamic using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • The configurations for simulating an HTTP request handling in Node JS by using Express.  • Took advantage of MVC pattern of Angular.js framework to produce higher maintainability of the code.  • Design and develop UI classes to build the business logic of product.  • Worked on JIRA to maintain and update the task.  • Used J2EE foe developing the site on the server side; JavaScript for client side scripting, which reduces server trips and decrease the response time of the web application request.  • Consumed the backend REST API written using the Apache Struts with Spring Integration using the tiles framework.  • Use Github for Version Control to track check-ins and rollback code; Managed all source code on GitLab  Environment: MYSQL5, CSS, d3.js, AJAX, JQuery 1.4.1, Angular.js, Bootstrap, HTML, JavaScript, MS Word, Grunt, UNIX, Eclipse IDE 5.5.0, Github. Sr. Full Stack Java Developer Molina Health Care - Long Beach, CA April 2014 to May 2015 Description: Care Fusion is a healthcare management system. It assists in managing the patient information for the hospitals. It supports different type of users and shows appropriate information according to the type of the user. The user module team is responsible for logging, validation and session information. It provides access to patients for viewing their information and making appointment with the doctors. And doctors use it to keep track of all the patient information. Development of the project was done in agile environment.  Responsibilities:  • Building applications using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, JSON, AngularJS, Backbone JS and Bootstrap with MySQL database.  • Participated in development of a new business application for the layout using Grid orientation model Bootstrap framework.  • Integrated the frontend JQuery UI with backend REST API.  • Developed Object Oriented JavaScript code and responsible for client side validations using JQuery functions.  • Developed source code to consume JSON response received through XHR/AJAX calls using JQuery. Implemented AngularJS application to follow strict MVC patterns for improved source code maintenance.  • Creating cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS based page layouts.  • Built responsive site using Bootstrap that fits devices of different visual sizes.  • Involved in Designing, Implementation, Maintenance and Testing of Databases and Web pages.  • Coding, styling, testing of reusable JavaScript, CSS, HTML widgets / libraries for complex UI Controls.  • Used NodeJS and Java to perform server-side backend operations.  • Responsible for JavaScript / AJAX UI upgrades and improvements.  • Designed web pages using with HTML, CSS based on the W3C standards.  • Worked through cross browser compatibility issues with layout and styles for all new CSS that was implemented.  • Facilitated User Testing sessions to solicit feedback on prototypes.  • Developed and prepared test cases for unit testing with JUnit.  • Wrote the backend to modify the tags in the database using JSON for data transmission.  • Developed the UI using SWT to add/remove tags.  • Developed callback functions to parse and handle JSON data returned from the server.  Environment: HTML, CSS, SASS, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, Bootstrap, XML, MVC Framework, AngularJS, Backbone JS, Node JS, JAVA, Apache Tomcat, Notepad++, Sublime text, MySQL, Microsoft Azure, Tortoise SVN. Full Stack Java Developer Comcast - Sunnyvale, CA January 2013 to February 2014 Description: Comcast is an American multinational mass media company and is largest board costing and largest cable company in the world by revenue. Cross channel offers provides a mean to consistently provide and manage offers across multiple e-commerce channels. The intent is to provide the ability for customer to become aware of offers they are qualified for like shipping (fee) based offers and price based offers via online channels. This project allows customer to have necessary information about how offers have been applied to their bag items and order at large and how an order pricing is reached by providing various levels of information at different pages across the multiple e-commerce channel.  Responsibilities:  • Closely worked with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set modules been built.  • Identified the business requirements for the client. Involved in documentation of the architecture and configuration details.  • Developed Front End Applications to provide access to the database servers.  • Extensively involved in front end screens using HTML 4/5, JavaScript, and JQuery, JSON, CSS and Ajax.  • Used XML Web services with SOAP protocol for transferring data between different applications.  • Used JDBC to query, update and maintain Database Servers using SQL queries.  • Used HTML, DHTML, JSON, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax to create the front end applications.  • Extensively used JavaScript to make the web page more interactive.  • Responsible for creating dynamic server side pages using JSP; Updated UI as per changing needs and requirements.  • Bug fixes for existing software system and also software enhancement.  • Used Firebug, Firebug Lite and IE Developer Toolbar, for debugging and browser compatibility.  • Used JQuery for creating various widgets, data manipulation, data traversing, form validations, create the content on the fly depend on the user request, implementing Ajax features for the application.  • Developing client side validation code using JavaScript and JQuery.  • Creating pages in Site Core and validating the HTML code with W3C Validator.  • Used best practices while creating the web pages. Understood their existing code and made changes to adapt the new environment.  • Wrote advanced HTML 5, JavaScript and CSS to deliver cutting-edge user interfaces and Components.  • Create, edit and maintain sites implementing responsive design & themes using front-end development frameworks including Bootstrap.  • Used Sass as the preprocessor to style the application UI (mixins, functions, grid systems)  • Used JQuery within AngularJS directives as a DOM manipulation, selection library.  • Under the guidance of Oracle Consultant successfully implemented JAVA executable code to produce invoices and automatically send it to respective customer.  • Created a CSS framework for high level grid preferred by the designers as well as implementing parts of Object Oriented CSS to slice down on repetitive code.  • Used Eclipse IDE for designing, coding and developing applications.  • Worked on various two different projects writing HTML, CSS and JavaScript based on provided designs to get web sites and web applications built within a team atmosphere.  • Experience in JavaScript source code, embedded nested handling logic using JQuery event handlers and call back functions.  Environment: JavaScript, JQuery, Angular.js, SAAS, CSS2/3, HTML4/5, Bootstrap, JSON, XML, J2EE, JSP, JDBC, Apache Tomcat, Eclipse, IntelliJ, Oracle, GIT. Full Stack Java Developer State Farm Insurance - Bloomington, IL November 2010 to November 2012 Description: State Farm Insurance is one of the largest insurers in the nation and since several years it has been developing applications for processing financial business. The customers and the financial staff for maintaining the details of various personal information and different insurance policies, payment history, and billing cycle mainly use the project. It also allows searching policies depending upon various search criteria. With this the end users and customer care staff can make online payments and has an administration module, which is used for creating users, groups and career. It also provides reports for down payment, online payment and new business.  Responsibilities:  • Discussed various ideas/suggestions for the ongoing web sites regarding the page layout and creative design.  • Developed page layouts, animation, navigation buttons and icons; Developed JavaScript and optimized existing scripts for efficiency.  • Responsible to store and retrieve user entered data to HTML session storage hence give user feature of running several sessions at one time.  • Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and hence building type ahead feature for zip code, city and county look up using jQuery, Ajax and jQuery UI.  • Worked on the website from starting to finishing to give it a new look using HTML/CSS/JavaScript.  • Participated as a team member in designing the user interface using HTML and CSS to make the interface user-friendly.  • Experienced debugging and solving cross-browser compatibility problems.  • Worked with other members in the group, committed code change using version control tool SVN and also merged code from other developers using tool Win Merge.  • Applied industry best practices and standards when project requirements are lagging.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML, DHTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Worked with JQuery Message plug-in, JQuery Validation Plug-in. Involved in extensive HTML coding.  • Testing browser compatibility and addressing browser compatibility issues.  • Implemented various Validation Controls for form validation and implemented custom validation controls using Object Oriented JavaScript.  • Communicated with other members in the team to better understand the functional requirements and transferred them into technical requires.  • Used CSS/CSS3 to embed the online videos for product introduction.  • Designed the login system using JQuery; Implemented various Validation Controls for client-side validation and implemented custom validation controls.  • Developed web pages using Visual Studio; Hosted the application on Microsoft Internet Information Server.  • Used Git version control tools to manage source control.    Environment: HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Microsoft Visio, Ajax, JSON, XML, jQuery, Dreamweaver, Eclipse IDE, IIS, Github. Full Stack Java Developer Ocwen Financial Solutions - Bengaluru, Karnataka May 2009 to October 2010 Description: Ocwen Financial Solutions is a provider of residential and commercial mortgage loan servicing, special servicing and asset management services. Ocwen has been servicing residential mortgage loans and subprime mortgage loans. With tremendous growth, the company wanted to automate the entire loan business processes - handling a loan application right from its inception through its closing and securitization.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery AJAX and JSON.  • Used JavaScript, jQuery for user interactions in pages; Worked on creating responsive website for smart devices using responsive design and media queries.  • Used JQuery Ajax for service calls on pages to interact with the server for information. Rapid prototyping of design concepts.  • Utilized various JavaScript and jQuery libraries, AJAX for form validation and other interactive features. Involved in designing and developing the JSON, XML Objects with MySQL.  • Used Ajax, JSON to send request to the server to check the functionality of the websites. Testing the website on multiple browsers with their old as well as latest release.  • Used JSON for storing and exchanging information between browsers and servers.  • Using complex Object Oriented concepts in improving the performance of the websites.  • Worked closely with SQA team in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform compatibility.  • Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML and JavaScript. Active participation throughout the entire software development lifecycle from project inception, to code development and elaborate testing of the various modules.  • Used agile methodology for the software development. Developed SQL queries to perform insert, update or delete operation on MySQL database.  • Responsible for authoring of website functionality with JavaScript, HTML, CSS.  • Used CSS Sprites to decrease the number of HTTP requests and load time of web pages.  • Been an active team player, helped in fixing bugs and also carried out troubleshooting.  • Produced semantically appropriate, standards compliant markup, and produced Rich User Interfaces.  • Used all the advanced Photoshop features to create appealing visual web interfaces.  • Worked in Onsite, Offshore model.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Oracle, JQuery, XML, Eclipse, UNIX, AJAX, Adobe Creative suite, JSON, MS Office, MySQL and SVN. Full Stack Java Developer Peta Digit LLC - Hyderabad, Telangana March 2009 to July 2010 Responsibilities:  • Assisted in designing, creating and developing web portals; Created appropriate concept models, site organization prototypes, navigation, page layouts and interaction.  • Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML/DHTML, and CSS.  • Developed HTML prototype documents with CSS Style Sheets.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation using jQuery and JavaScript.  • Worked closely with the programmers for project requirement analysis.  • Created new static model pages with cross browser compatibility features.  • Created and implemented SQL Queries, Stored procedures, Functions, Packages and Triggers in SQL Server; Created necessary Views, Indexes and Clusters.  • Using advanced level of jQuery, Ajax, JavaScript and CSS.  • Designed report previews for PDF and Excel using SQL Stored Procedure; Created triggers for calendar based database events.  • Used various jQuery plugins like auto-complete, date-picker, color-picker, carousel to enhance the usability, functionality and overall experience for website.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, XML, Adobe Dreamweaver, Apache HTTP Server, MySQL. Education Bachelor's Skills HTML (9 years), JAVASCRIPT (9 years), JSON (9 years), XML (9 years), jQuery (9 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Web Development HTML4/5, CSS2/3, SASS, LESS, JavaScript, Servlet, JSP, PHP, JSON, JDBC, AJAX, JSON and XML.  IDE, HTML Editor Notepad++, Eclipse IDE, Sublime Text, Atom, Cmder, Adobe Dreamweaver, Photoshop.  Web/App Servers Apache Tomcat 5.0.25, Web Sphere HTTP Web Server, Web Logic  Database Oracle 11g, SQL SERVER, MySQL, NoSQL  Operating Systems Windows NT, Windows 98/2000/XP/Vista/7/8/, MAC OS X/Linux (Redhat/Ubuntu), Windows XP (Prof)  Methodologies Agile, Rational Unified Process (RUP), UML,TDD,BDD  JavaScript Libraries jQuery, Ext.js, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Require.js, Node.js, Bootstrap, Foundation  Version Control Git, SVN