Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Ulta Beauty Illinois City, IL • Around 3 years of experience in Java with Microservice and Spring Cloud along with full software development life cycle including requirement analysis, design, coding, testing, debugging and maintenance.  • Extensive experience in developing JAVA based applications using JAVA, JEE, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JSF, JMS and Webservices.  • Hands on experience in the implementation of Core Java SE 8 concepts like Streams API, Lambda functions, Generics, Time API, Functional Interfaces Multithreading, Transaction Management, Exception Handling and Collection API.  • Hands on experience in Web crawler written in Java.  • Expertise in developing Micro services using Spring Boot build more physically separated modular applications which will improve scalability, Availability, Agility of application.  • Expertise in creating Databases, Tables, Stored Procedure, DDL/DMLTriggers, Views, and User defined data types (UDT), Cursors, Functions, data dictionaries, and maintaining data integrity and Indexes using SQL.  • Good knowledge in writing stored procedures, Packages and functions using SQL & PL/SQL and good at advance PL/SQL topics like Triggers, Collections.  • Hands on experience with build tools like ANT, Maven, and logging tools like Log4J.  • Experience in software configuration management using CVS, SVN and GIT. Work Experience Java Developer Ulta Beauty - Chicago, IL February 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in Analysis, Design, Development, System Testing and User Acceptance Testing.  • Involved in the development using Java/J2EE Technologies, Web Services and Hibernate ORM Framework.  • Designed and developed Microservices using REST framework and Spring Boot in creating the Application.  • Used Java8 features in developing the code like creating resource classes, fetching documents from database.  • Extensively used MVC, Factory the Singleton design patterns.  • Implemented the application using SpringBoot Framework and handled the security using Spring Security.  • Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud Microservices and develop spring based application with very less configuration.  • Used Spring framework to provide loose coupling between different application modules.  • Developed Hibernate with Spring Integration as the data abstraction to interact with the database of MongoDB.  • Used Microservices to communicate using synchronous protocols HTTP and REST for implementing SOA.  • Worked with NoSQL database Mongo DB and worked with it to perform many different operations.  • Used Cassandra for achieving de-normalization through features like collections.  • Developed unit tests with JUNIT and Mockito.  • Developed build tasks to run the unit tests on Jenkins and maintaining separate build in Maven for the module for easy integration to the portal build and configure with Jenkins.  • Worked closely with QA team and fixed QA bugs with a quick turnaround time.  • Focused on Test Driven Development; thereby creating detailed Unit tests for every single piece of functionality before actually writing the functionality.  • Used Apache Maven for project management and building the application.  Environment: J2EE, Spring framework, Sybase, Spring MVC, Hibernate, JSP, SOA, Web Services, Microservices, XML Apache Maven, MongoDB, JUnit, JENKINS. Java Developer Molex - Chicago, IL August 2018 to January 2019 Responsibilities  • Developed Hibernate mapping files using different mapping strategies such as table per class hierarchy and also used Hibernate Persistence Strategy to interact with database.  • Used Java8 features in developing the code like Lambda expressions, creating resource classes, fetching documents from database.  • Developed a tool to retrieve and send data to third party service provider this feature was implemented using REST  • Used RESTFUL client to interact with the services by providing the RESTFUL URL mapping Deployed the application in WebSphere Application Server and Configured JMS in the WebSphere application server to send messages on the queue.  • Implemented scripting with XML to dynamically refresh the page contents.  • Developed Controller for request, response paradigm by Spring Controllers using Spring-MVC.  • Used JSON as response type in REST services.  • Developed core Java programs for all business rules and workflows using spring framework.  • Designed and developed Restful service interface using Spring MVC to the underlying customer event API.  • Developed Rest APIs in Spring boot.  • Developed Hibernate with Spring Integration as the data abstraction to interact with the database of MongoDB.  • Implemented Hibernate for data persistence and management.  • Analyzed and fixed issues related to REST Web services and Application responses.  • Used Maven as the build tool and Tortoise SVN as the Source version controller.  • Used Subversion (SVN) as the configuration management tool to manage the code repository.  • Performed unit testing using JUnit.  • Developed different modules using Java, spring and Hibernate.  • Involved in developing stored procedures and Triggers on Oracle11g  Environment:Spring Framework, Hibernate, Oracle 11g, Web Services, REST, XML, JUnit, GITHub, SQL, CVS, CSS, MVC, Maven and SVN. Manager of IIT Chinese Students and Scholars Association Forum School of Applied Technology, Illinois Institute of Technology - Chicago, IL March 2017 to December 2018 Chicago, IL Mar. 2017 - Dec. 2018  Manager of IIT Chinese Students and Scholars Association Forum  • Worked coordinately with other management team members  • Operated the front-end forum management system to assist creating new user accounts, resetting passwords, altering account privileges, and censoring posts School of Applied Technology, Illinois Institute of Technology - Chicago, IL January 2017 to May 2017 • Designed a virtual student complaint system for students to file complaint and for handlers and faculties to view and solve issues  • Built a working prototype with teammates using PL/SQL Java Developer StateFarm - Bloomington, IL October 2014 to April 2016 Responsibilities  • Implementing business logic and data base connectivity.  • Client side installation and configuration of project.  • Implemented the Consolidated applications front-end pages using JSP and JSTL.  • Developed the user interface for the client using Swing.  • Co-coordinated Application testing with the help of testing team.  • Writing database queries on Oracle  • Writing stored procedures, Packages, Views, Cursors, Functions and triggers using SQLin the back end.  • Used Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping (ORM) and data persistence.  • Wrote SQL commands and Stored Procedures to retrieve data from Oracle database.  • Developed the application using Singleton, Business Delegate and Data Transfer Object design patterns in the project.  • Created and implemented Oracle Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers and complex queries using SQL.  • Worked with Java Messaging Services (JMS) for reliable and Asynchronous Communication.  • Used log4j for logging and SVN for version control. Education Professional Master in Information Technology & Management in Information Technology & Management Illinois Institute of Technology - Chicago, IL December 2018 Bachelor of Arts Illinois Wesleyan University - Bloomington, IL May 2015 Skills Ms access, Ms sql server, Sql server, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Eclipse, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jms, Visual studio, C#, Hadoop, Html, Javascript, Svn, Css, Web services, Etl Additional Information Technical Skills  Framework: Spring MVC, Hibernate  Languages: Java, C#, SQL, R  Frontend Tools JavaScript, HTML and CSS  IDE Tools: Eclipse, STS (spring tool suite 4), visual studio code, visual studio, Github  Web services: JMS, Rest  Databases: Oracle, MS SQL Server, MS Access, Mongo, Hadoop, PL/SQL  Data Warehousing tools SSIS, ETL, Power BI  Version control: SVN, CVS  Operating Systems: UNIX (Solaris, Ubuntu, Linux, and OSX); Windows 9x/XP/Vista/7/8.