Java Architect <span class="hl">Java</span> Architect Java Architect - Alphabet Inc San Francisco, CA • 10+ years of professional experience in Requirements Analysis, Design, Development and Implementation of Java, Android, Angular JS, JavaScript, CSS, Ajax, HTML 5, Node.js, J2EE and client-server technologies.  • Good experience in Agile and SCRUM methodologies.  • Extensive experience in developing applications using Java, JSP, Servlets, JavaBeans, JSTL, JSP Custom Tag Libraries, JDBC, JNDI, SQL, AJAX, JavaScript and XML.  • Strong Working experience in Design, Development and implementation of several J2EE frameworks like (Model View Controller) Struts, Spring, Hibernate and EJB  • Good experience in developing Flex Custom Components, Flex Data services, Charting, Error handling, Advanced graphing, Dashboard layout design, analyzing designing and deploying a Flex applications.  • Implemented Design patterns such as MVC, View Dispatcher, Data Access Objects, Singleton, Observer, Factory, Session Facade.  • Experience in configuring and deploying Web Applications using Web Logic, WebSphere, JBoss, Tomcat and Apache.  • Expertise in using IDE's like RAD, IBM WebSphere Studio Application Developer (WSAD) and Eclipse Used Hibernate framework as persistence layer  • Developed ANT scripts for the build and deployment of J2EE, WebSphere Studio Application Devloper (WSAD), Git, GitHub, Junit, Scrum, UML, JSP, JavaServer Pages Standard Tag Library (JSTL), Servelet, MAVEN applications.  • Strong front-end development using Adobe Flex, MXML, Action Script, AJAX, Java Scripts, CSS, HTML and DHTML.  • Expertise in developing Flex Rich Internet Applications (RIA) with Cairngorm MVC architecture and Mate Framework, FlexUnit for testing , BlazeDs for remote development services, Action Script and  Design patterns.  • Experienced in Version Control Systems such as SVN, CSV and used tracking tool JIRA.  • Experienced in Document preparation including Design Documents, Technical help documents, User training documents and Test Cases.  • Working as a team extended across the world at onshore and offshore locations, projects teams included 30+ resources and always keep up with new technology trends with a view to applying changing technology solution patterns.  • Good experience with interacting with employees from across all levels in a project.  • Experience of working with enterprise technologies like Java, sql, My-SQL, Spring, Hibernate, Servlets, Apache, JSP, Javascript, servlet.  • Used Hibernate, object/relational-mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with a SQL-based scheme.  • Expertise in designing and developing applications using Java, J2EE Technologies like Servlets, JSP, EJB, MQ Series, JDBC, XML, JMS, AJAX, and web services.  • Experience with various frameworks like Struts, spring and Hibernate.  • Developed Web Services as a service provider and deployed them on the WebLogic Application Server over the HTTP protocol.  • Extensively worked on various J2EE servers (Web Sphere, Weblogic, Tomcat) and IDEs Eclipse & IBM RAD.   • Developed single page application with Angular JS.   • Responsible for the implementation of Web Design based on CSS3, HTML5, and Bootstrap Front-End Framework.   • Developing web application with Backbone.js and PHP CodeIgniter framework. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Architect Alphabet Inc - Columbus, OH August 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Implemented AWS IAM integration using Spring Security for Mobile clients and Web Applications for Microservice Authentication across the enterprise for both Tenants and Clients.  • JWT token security integration with ADFS and Spring Security on top. Implemented role-based web service access (method annotated roles access derived from token).  • Developed and maintained Web services using a SOA driven approach utilizing open source technologies like Hibernate ORM and Strut  • Created connections to the database using Hibernate session Factory and Hibernate APIs to retrieve and store data to the database with Hibernate transaction control.  • Used iBATIS framework with Spring framework for data persistence and transaction management  • Defined new validations through Angular.js for the form field validation implemented through HTML5.  • Worked on integration of Node.js, Express.js and MongoDB using Mongo.js and created a persistent layer using Mongoose.  • Built responsive site using Bootstrap that fits devices of different visual sizes.  • Expert in developing User Interface (UI) Applications and professional Web Applications using Web Standards, HTML5, CSS3, Object Oriented JavaScript, Angular JS, Angular2, React.js, Backbone.js, Node.js, MongoDB, JQuery, Bootstrap3, Ajax Concepts, CSS3 Media Queries.  • Worked on JavaScript for page functionality and responsive tooltip plugins using jQuery  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, EMCA Script, Bootstrap, ReactJS and AngularJS.  • Successfully performed migrations from Oracle 10g/11g to 11gR2 RAC (Real Application) Database. Responsible for data center migration from old data center to new data center and migrated and upgraded single instance database to multiple instance databases using export/import, Data Pump.  • Develop and maintain the applications built on Oracle Forms forthe purpose of different processes between customers and vendors for the internal Systems.  • Excellent Knowledge of Cassandra Architecture, Cassandra data modelling & Monitoring Cassandra using Opscenter.  • Designing and implementing security for Hadoop cluster with Kerberos secure authentication.  • Create json schemas for various Restful API as part of Micro Services development using Spring Boot.  • Design and develop SOAP Web Services using CXF/JAX-WS.  • Architect of subscriber view on EMA along with Architect of web services with MVC structure  • Build and deployment of eclipse plugins.  • Proficient in maintaining load-balancing and fail-over analysis of Weblogic application server  • Optimized ruby-on-rails based tool used for diagnostics of GitHub Enterprise appliances.  • Maintained the Selenium & JAVA automation code and resources in source controls like Git Hub over the time for improvements and new features.  • Created test plans and JUnit test cases and test suite for testing the application.  • Scrum Agile Areas of expertise include Agile Principles, Tasking Meetings/Retrospectives, Communication Relative Estimation, Story-Based Development, Iteration/Sprint Planning Meetings and Conflict Resolution  • Experience preparing UML technical system documentation.  • Developed the front end using HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, JSP, CSS, JQuery, and XML.  • Experience developing API's and interfaces using SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) and have developed business event ABCS services (both provider API and requestor API services) using XML messages between Oracle and SQL server based applications  • Experienced implementing SOA Suite technology adapters (DB, JMS, File, BAM, B2B) to integrate with external systems    Environment: Java, J2EE, JEE, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, Jquery, Ajax, Sencha Extjs, Javascript, Oracle, Crud, Pl/Sql, Jdbc, Apache Cxf, Rest, Eclipse, Weblogic, Clearcase, Junit, Agile, Uml, Jsp, Jstl ( Java Server Pagesstandard Tag Library), Servlet, Maven, Itext, Google Web Kit (Gwt), Jasper Report, Ilog, Web 2.0, Soa. Java Architect Citigroup Inc - Chicago, IL February 2016 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developed 6 Spring Rest Spring Java end points to walk thru receiving running on Weblogic application servers in Sun Solaris(TM) with Android based Zebra TC70 smart phone scanner.  • Developed and integrated high availability J2EE/JSF/SPRING/HIBERNATE application to process customer order in house and from virtual agents.  • Implemented Struts framework based on the Model View Controller design paradigm.  • Implemented the MVC architecture using Struts MVC.  • Implemented MVC architecture using JSF, Struts and Spring framework to develop the front end screens, create business objects and DAO classes in Websphere Application server. Used JSP, JQuery and JavaScript when developing the front end screens.  • Worked on front-end technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX and frameworks like AngularJS, NodeJS and JQuery  • Utilized HTML5, CSS3, and BootStrap for stylish and modern front end design to further promote organization and attract future business, and reduce back-end data validation  • Created web services and desktop applications to access and display data needed by support teams using, Ajax, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, CSS3 and HTML5.  • Developed web page using Angular JS components like controllers, routers, NG app etc.  • Creating User Interfaces for the applications using Angular 2/4/6, HTML5, SCSS, JQuery.  • Planned & prepared a six-week curriculum to teach HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery,  JavaScript, and GitHub for basic front-end web development skills  • Develop and maintain the applications built on Oracle Forms forthe purpose of different processes between customers and vendors for the internal Systems.  • Extensive work experience in DB2 Data Replication (DPropR), Stored procedure (SP), user defined function (UDF), and user defined table function.  • Advanced proficiency with Java EE technologies including Java Servlets, JSP, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, EJB, JDBC, Spring, Jersey, XML, HTML/JavaScript and Struts, JSTL  • Integrated API Vault token access to MongoDB instances  • In depth knowledge of MongoDB and hands on experience with installing, configuring and monitoring with OPS manager.  • Customer facing web services that was secured to specific IP address's and companies.  • Installation/Configuration of middleware product Apache CXF Web Server, IBM HTTP Web Server, Oracle WebLogic Server, IBM WebSphere, Tomcat Application Server, JBoss Application Server and tcServer.  • Implementation of SOAP Web Services using CXF/JAX-WS.  • Used Firebug for application webpage troubleshooting and Eclipse debugger for the bug fixes.  • Experienced in designing, developing and maintaining portal applications using IBM WebSphere Portal on Rational Application Developer (RAD)  • Creating custom themes/skins by migrating from standard Websphere Portal themes using XmlAccess, other tools,  • Usage of version control repository SVN (Subversion by apache), JIRA/ QualityCenter for ticketing, Wiki for documentation, Jenkins for nightly build.  • Created test plans and JUnit test cases and test suite for testing the application.  • Extensively used Scrum Programming concept which is part of agile methodologies to work for every iteration and used continuous integration tool to make the build passes before deploying the code to other environment  • Create a reusable UI Modeling framework usingUML(Rhapsody) of software components and standard interfaces for development ofHMI software.  • Implemented JSP web tool for remote monitoring of clients running in stability lab. Tool sent SNMP packets to clients, SNMP responses were interpreted and displayed to user to monitor client health. Tool was in use for over a year and was used as basis for next revision.  • Experience with continuous integration and continuous delivery tools (e.g. git/github, Jenkins, bamboo, gradle/maven, artifactory)  • Working with DTDs, Schemas, and XML files:  • Experience in large-scale SOA/EAI implementations using Oracle Fusion Middleware and Oracle Service Bus  • Participated in conversion of Piper Jaffray Investments, Inc into RMA System using Java, J2EE, Servlets/ JSP, EJB, JMS, MQ, ORACLE, JDBC, HTML, Swing, XML, Struts, JavaScript, SOAP/WebServices  • Installed, configured and administered Apache and Apache Tomcat on Linux.  • Installation, Configuration and Maintenance, Enterprise computing including: Windows, Linux, Software and Hardware, System Backup, Recovery, Linux User and File System Management, Linux/Unix Package and Patch Management.  • Extensive experience in designing and implementing various web applications in both LAMP (Linux, Apache, MY SQL, PHP) and WAMP (Windows, Apache, My SQL, PHP) Environments    Environment: Java, J2EE, JEE, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, DB2, JDBC, MongoDB, PL/ SQL, APACHE  CXF, soap, Web Services, Eclipse, Websphere, Subversion, Junit, Scrum, UML, Class diagram, JSP, MAVEN, Xml, SOA, JMS, Apache Tomcat, Linux, PHP Java Architect Symantec - Boston, MA February 2015 to January 2016 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the enterprise class products using Spring MVC, JSF and Oracle ADF as MVC frameworks.  • Involved in converting database objects to Java objects conversion with the help of IBatis persistence framework  • Designed the application by implementing Struts based on MVC Architecture, used simple Java  • Developed web application using JSF Framework in server side and front-end validation using JQuery and JavaScript validation  • In-depth knowledge and experience in using Java, J2EE, Applets, Swing, EJB, JSP, JavaScript, Servlet, JDBC, JMS, Active MQ, IBM MQ Series  • Used Bootstrap JavaScript plug-ins to implement Tabs, Tooltips, Pop Overs, Buttons and Alerts.  • Experience with JavaScript and associated frameworks like JQuery and DOJO.  • Developed share view using Sencha Touch for non-flash supporting devices.  • Designed and developed most of the application's GUI screens using GWT framework.  • Designed and developed custom MySQL applications specific to clients' needs.  • Developed a set of procedures and scripts to create work products utilizing TOAD and custom SQL Scripts to report on database objects.  • Served as primary SQL DBA / Architect to manage Hulu's SQL Server environment. Managed 10 SQL Servers running on Windows Server 2003, 2008, & 2012 utilizing SQL Server 2005, 2008, 2012 & 2014 serving hundreds of thousands of transactions per day, with multiple databases > 15 TB each  • Take leadership role in building out the CC&B infrastructure, achieve HA across Data Centers.  Environment: CC&B, Coherence.  • Integrate Oracle Coherence with Oracle WebCenter  • Design and implementation of desktop, mobile and web applications in Java and HTML5/Javascript using Eclipse, NetBeans, and Xcode IDE's; Swing, GWT, Vaadin, JPA, Hibernate, PhoneGap frameworks; and SVN, git, maven source code environments.  • Expertise in configuring a domain, deploying applications, configuring data sources, logging and web subsystems in JBOSS 5 and EAP in different environments like Development, QA, UAT and Production on Linux (RHEL) and Solaris 9 operating systems.  • Create and maintain Amazon EC2 instance that supports the companies Redmine project management site and Mercurial CM.  • Set up ClearCase and ClearQuest access for users (CQ accounts, Active Directory ClearCase group administration)  • Created custom XPath for identifying Dynamic Objects and used them in Selenium.  • Executed project using waterfall model and practiced Agile Project Management & performed the Scrum Master role for specific projects/requirements as appropriate. Used Rally for Agile project management  • Have defined and implemented Software Architecture through design tools like UML, Rhapsody etc.  • Designed and implemented JSP application for comparing weekly test result files. Compared any 2 similar XML test result files, evaluated data using XPath, then displayed results in easy-to-read display. Included algorithm for n-level recursion. Utilized Model-View-Controller design pattern.  • Extensively worked on open source frameworks like Spring MVC (POJO, Multiple controllers, Dispatcher Servlet, View Resolver, validator framework, models, services, DAO, DTO)  • Familiarity with artifact management & build tool concepts, such as Gradle, Maven, Ant, Artifactory,  Bintray  • Worked extensively in installation, configuration and development in EMC Documentum based ECM and BPM solutions. This mainly involved designing ECM Repositories and Workflows.  • Designed and developed most of the application's GUI screens using GWT framework.  • Great comprehension on coordinating JIRA with different items, for example, Sales Force, Share Point, Microsoft office connector.  • Extensive experience in Design, Development and Implementation of applications using Java, Swing, MVC, Android, HTML, C, XML, Json  • Expertise in Cognos Enterprise Planning Modeling: Analyst (D-List, D-Cubes, D-Links, Macros, etc), Contributor (e-list, Rights, GTP, etc).  • Responsible for majority of incoming support calls and emails regarding data usage and Jasper Reporting  • Designing and developing Infrastructure for ILOG JRules using J2EE, XML, Web services, Spring, Batch, IBM Master Data Management and application servers.  • Implementing various deployment options (J2SE, J2EE, Asynchronous and Dynamic) using ILOG JRules.  • Designed ADF pages with Search forms, Popups, Dynamic Tables, Menus and dynamic tree structure.  • I have worked extensively on Oracle BPM Suite 11g/12c, with strong exposure to various aspects of Business Process Management Cycle including Design, Modelling, Implementation, Deployment, and Testing.  • Responsible for Designing screens in the MDF, debugging, and developing various code fixes after testing the modules for future[Web 2.0]  • IBM MQ Series related troubleshooting and Bug Fixing.  • Extensive knowledge on Apache and Apache Tomcat on Linux.  • Utilized Puppet, Kickstart, and VM templates to create "golden image" for Linux OS deployments  • Troubleshooting and problem solving of Linux/UNIX servers, debugging OS failure, Apache, BEA Weblogic, JBoss, Sun One, IBM Websphere.  • Worked on Integrated Development Environments like WSAD, Eclipse, Text Mate, Net Beans and RubyMine. Proficiency in multiple databases like MySQL, ORACLE 9i, MS SQL Server 2000, PostgreSQL.  • Control stability of websites with original CMS and oversee transfer to WordPress CMS, create custom WP plugins to adapt to site needs and use custom post types, custom field types, and jQuery to create custom digital edition and video sections of websites.  • Extensive working experience with Content Management Tools such as Drupal7 and Drupal8.  • Developed ASP.NET WEB API REST services for web applications.  • Hands on experience in programming languages like C, C++ to create new applications.  • Expertise in the Mainframe tools like TSO, ISPF, File-Aid, Endeavor, SPUFI, QMF etc.  • Extensive experience in developing application software on IBM Mainframes using Microfocus COBOL  • Expertise in COBOL, CICS, MQ, DB2, VSAM, JCL, SQL, QMF, SPUFI, UNIX, REXX, NDM, FTP and Secured FTP.  • Expertise in SQL and PL/SQL programming, developing complex code units.  • Developed SAS code for data analysis used to establish the dysmorphology standard for GA SEED study that helps to identify children with physical and congenital malformations.  • Worked mainly on MVC 5, JQuery, Asp.NET 4 and ADO.NET for the design of the web application.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JEE, Spring, IBatis, Struts, JSF, EJB, DOJO, Sencha ExtJS, MYSQL, Toad, coherence, APACHE AXIS2, WSDL, Netbeans, Jboss, Mercurial, ClearCase, Waterfall model, UML, JSP, SERVLET, ANT, ITEXT, EMC Documentum, GWT, JIRA, SWING, IBM MQ Series, Ruby, wordpress, drupal, C, C++, Mainframe, COBOL Sr. Java Developer Comcast Corporation - Atlanta, GA September 2013 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  • Interacted with the stake-holders and gather requirements and business artifacts based on Agile SCRUM methodology.  • Developed web pages by using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Used Eclipse to develop source code and debug the application.  • Built a custom cross-platform architecture using Java, Spring Core/MVC, and Hibernate.  Implemented Web-Services to integrate between different applications internal and third party components using SOAP and REST services using Apache-CXF  • Configured Queues and Topics as part of application integration and defined Camel routing between queues/topics.  • Reviewed the XML logical data model and developed XML schema XSD to validate the model and used JAX-B for Xml- Java Mapping and XML-XSLT conversion.  • Developed and published web-services using WSDL, SOAP and XML, JAX-B based on top-down and bottom-up approaches.  • Experience in pre-testing the Web-Service calls with SOAP UI using end-points.  • Coordinated Unit Testing by JUnit, Easy Mock, Integration and User Acceptance Testing and developed test cases for bean components.  • Used Subversion for maintaining the component and for release and version management. And JIRA for defect tracking.  • Maven tool has been used for the build and deploy procedure scripts in UNIX, Linux and Windows environment using Hudson.  • Been though Release process for project execution as part of SCRUM.    • Environment: Java, J2EE, SOA, Spring, Web Services, CXF, XML, XSD, Shell Script, UML, HTML, JavaScript, Eclipse, WebLogic, Active MQ, JAX-B, JMS, Axis2, AJAX, Hudson, Maven, Jenkins, Restful, SOAP, JIRA, Oracle, PL/SQL, XPath, XSLT, SOAP UI, JUnit, SVN, Windows, Unix. Sr. Java Developer SA Technologies Inc - Santa Clara, CA October 2011 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Wrote multithreaded programs to measure system performance  • Worked on GUI internationalization using JSP and Core Java  • Used Mercurial to keep track of versioning of the source code  • Worked on bug fixing  • Used JDBC APIs for database connectivity and data retrieval.  • Developing HardwareStoreMarketer.com site using ASP.Net.  • Worked on various client websites that used Struts framework, Hibernate and OGNL  • Wrote test cases using JUnit testing framework and configured applications on Weblogic Server  • Involved in debugging the product using Eclipse and JIRA Bug Tracking.  • Involved in writing stored procedures, view, user-defined functions and triggers in SQL Server database for Reports module.  • Simulation was developed using C++.  • Implemented real-time patient prescription history verification system using C, Oracle PL/SQL on VMS platform.  • Used Visual Source Safe for source control.  • Manipulated data and performed data preparation using TSO, ISPF and SPF system utilities.  • Developed and implemented Legacy system programs by using COBOL, DB2, CICS, JCL, JAVA and VSAM.  • Wrote stored procedures in Oracle PL/SQL for data entry and retrieval.  • Extracted and modified data from VSAM files for PDF reports.  • Automate nightly batch processing and job alerts using REXX.  • Responsible for migrating Websphere server and migrating IBM CICS Transaction.  • J2EE to communicate legacy COBOL based mainframe implementations.  • Designed and developed Message Flows and Message Sets and other service component to expose Mainframe applications to enterprise J2EE applications.  • Use FileAid datasets to validate backend results of test events.  • Configuring and analyzing JCL to execute mainframe batch.  • Actively involved in contributing to RFP and POC activities in IMS.  • Used standard data access technologies like JDBC and ORM tool like Hibernate  • Designed, implemented new website features and provided support, maintenance    Environment: Core Java, JSP, JUnit, Mercurial, Eclipse, .Net, JIRA, JDBC, Struts, Hibernate, VisualSourceSafe, Weblogic, Oracle, OGNL, C, C++, Linux, MS SQL Server, COBOL, FileAid, REXX, ISPF, Mainframe, CICS, IMS, VSAM, JCL Java Developer CITI Bank - New York, NY October 2009 to September 2011 Responsibilities:  • The system was designed according to J2EE specifications. Servlets were used as a Front Controller gateway into the system. Helper classes were used to limit the business logic in the servlet. EJB was used to talk to the database and JSP along with HTML, XML were used to control the client view.  • Designed and added new functionality extended existing application using J2EE, XML, Ajax, Servlets, JSP.  • Studied the impact of the requirement and prepared the Requirement functional and technical documents.  • Created different batch programs to clean up tables in DB2 database.  • Worked on UNIX shell scripting to run the JAR file created for batch program.  • Used Struts framework in UI designing and validations.  • Developed Action Classes, which acts as the controller in Struts framework.  • Client side validations are done using JavaScript and server side validations are done using Struts validator framework.  • AJAX forms are created for update operations.  • Data was converted into JSON using JSP tags.  • Enhanced the existing application to meet the business requirement.  • Establishing JDBC connection using database connection pool.  • Wrote complex SQL statements to retrieve data from the DB2 database.  • Participated in the Production support and maintenance of the project.  • Created new tables in DB2 database.  • Used ClearCase version control system.  • Performed usability testing for the application using JUnit Test.    Environment: JAVA, JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, Struts, Design Patterns, Eclipse, Apache tomcat server, DB2, UNIX, ClearCase, Junit Software Developer Novartis - Seattle, WA February 2006 to September 2009 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the design and development of some of the critical features in the application.  • Involved in development and enhancements to the core component of the application which takes different types of requests from the device such as device validation, user authentication, user authorization, list of apps and also talks to different systems to fetch required information to provide that to client.  • Worked on development of new Application called AmtoolBox which is used by the Vendor Store Account Managers to upload promotions, marketing content, the application provides the users information about the activities in the indirect stores of Verizon, this is one of the widely used Verizon applications and also received recognition from the higher management, the application is developed using Spring MVC, Spring Integration, IBatis, Oracle, JQuery, Rest Services, Javax ImageIO APIs.  • Worked on development of another new Application Event Management Tool, which is used by the Crisis Management team to track the events or issues during a crisis, the new events are pushed to a MQ, configured listeners in the application will pick it up and process the event , generate the required information, construct XMLs and push them to a TOPIC for further systems to process.  • Created the technical specifications for the use cases and Solution architecture document for the application.  • Implemented the survey platform using Spring MVC, IBatis, Oracle, JQuery.  • Lead the team to make the Server code HP Fortify compatible. Worked with CRT VZW team to explain/suppress all the issues.  • Trouble shooting the production issues using debugging tools such as Fiddler Charles Proxy, FireBug.  • Implemented the SOAP and REST web services to integrate with different third parties for fetching device information and user information.  • Involved in Architecting the Infrastructure planning, setup and configuration for new projects.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Struts, Spring MVC, Spring Integration, Ibatis, Oracle, JQuery, XML, WAS , Accurev, IBM DataPower, XSLT, CSS, AJAX, HP Fortify, SSO, Siteminder, REST Webservices, JMS, Webspher MQ. Education Master of Science in Science and Engineering University of Michigan Skills J2EE (10+ years), JAVA (10+ years), STRUTS (10+ years), XML (10+ years), ORACLE (10+ years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Core Java and front end  Java/ J2EE, Core Java, JSP, Servlet, JDBC, Struts,JSF,Spring,Hibernate,Ibatis,Mybatis,SQL, PL/SQL, POI, EJB, JMS, UNIX shell script, Log4j, JUnit, SAX, DOM, JAXB, XML    J2EE Technologies Servlets, JSP, EJB, JMS, JDBC.  Web Servers/application servers Apache tomcat Server, IBM Web Sphere server, pramati server, Bea Weblogic server.  Web tools and languages HTML, XML, CSS, DHTML, AJAX, ANT, Java Script  Databases Oracle, MS SQL Server, DB2.  Languages & API  Collection, Javascript, Jquery, HTML, Javascript, Sencha Ext, CSS, Bootstrap, Backbone, Node, D3, Angular, Multithreading, Applets, Swing.    Operating Systems UNIX ,Windows, , IDE Eclipse, Intelli J IDEA, RAD, Spring STS Version Control: SVN, GitHub, IBM Rational, Clear Case and CVS  Tools Eclipse, Rational Rose, Dreamweaver, RAD, Net Beans.    Methodologies Rational Unified Process (RUP), Agile (SCRUM), UML.  Web Services: SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, XML, XSD, XSL, REST, SOA, AXIS.  Web Frameworks Struts, Spring, AJAX, Hibernate, HTML5, CSS3, Angular JS    Visa Status: Green Card