Salesforce Admin/ Developer Salesforce Admin/ <span class="hl">Developer</span> Salesforce Admin/ Developer - CountryFinancial Bloomington, IL Over 6 + years of experience as aSoftwareEngineer- extensively worked on Web based applications. Experienceon various domains such as Banking, Financial services and Healthcare and Property Insurance.  • Excellent knowledge and implementation skills in complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC)  • Experience in Development Administration, Configuration, Implementation, Lightning, CPQ and support experience with Salesforce platform.  • Experience in Waterfall and Agile Projects, worked very closely with Product owners in Agile and attended different ceremonies like Sprint Planning meeting, Scrum, Backlog grooming, Sprint Review and Retrospective, Safe Agile/ Scaled agile.  • Experience in working with Version one,TFS and Jira for agile team management.  • Worked on Lightning Process builder flows, Connect API, Chatter and quickAction.  • Administration experience on CRM Applications like Data Exports & Imports, ApplicationSupport, Security Administration, Maintenance, and User & Security Management.  • Proficient in creating Lightning Apps combining Lightning Design System, Lightning App Builder and Lightning Component features  • Technical knowledge about Salesforce lightening Lightning Components, Lightning connect lightning Design System,Lightning Field Services and App Exchange.  • Good Understanding on Contract Life Cycle Management and as well as Apttus CPQ, end to end implementation of Apttus CPQ, Salesforce CPQ, and CLMwhere it helps you to configure the price and quote deals.  • Strong hands on writing WSDL, SOAP (webservices) that supports the BigMachine BMI/SFDCintegration. (BMIIntegration on salesforce.com)  • Good understanding of salesforce Governor limits and experience in overcoming limitations in Apex classes, Triggers, SOQL and Batch classes.  • Sound experience in integration of Salesforce.com applications with external systems using - SOAP and REST Web Services.  • Developed various customized solutions like retailportal, CustomerPortal, InventoryManagement system, Customized Order Management, Order Processing and Billing applications using FORCE.COM, Visual-force and Apex.  • Experience in salesforce security setup using Profiles, Permission Sets, OWD, Role Hierarchy and Sharing Rules,Lightning Field Services..  • Experience in import/export of data using Data loader, Informatica cloud connector from legacy CRM database into salesforce.com.  • Strong experience in generating Reports, Dashboards and analytical snapshots for the management.  • Experience in deployment from Sandbox to Production using deployment tools like Force.com IDE, Force.com migration tool and Change Sets  • Proven ability in designing and creating automation frameworks using Java,Jenkins, tools.  • Experience in Core Java, development by applying different concepts like OOPS concepts, Collections, Strings, Exception handling, Multithreading, etc. and experience in JavaScript.  • Experience in installation and Administration of version control systems like GIT (Distributed Version Control), GitHub, Gitlab, SVN Version Control  • Updating Weekly Status reports of offshore and Onsite team.  • Experience in testing Web Services-SOA architecture, XML transactions, SOAP, HTTP, WSDL, and REST using various tools like SOAP UI/Ready API and selenium.  • Expertise in HTML, CSS, HTTP, JavaScript, XML.  • Worked with Eclipse,Apache POI, Log 4J, ANT, HTTP client and Maven.    Testing tools JUnit,TestNG.  Web Technologies  Salesforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visual force Pages, Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Dashboards, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS,XML, XSLT, JDBC& REST services    Defect Tracking Tools HP /Quality Center, JIRA, Version One  Languages Java, SQL, C#, C++, VB.net, Apex  CI/CD Tools Jenkins, Data loader  Databases Oracle, DB2  Version Control Subversion, GIT, GITHUB, Source Tree,GITLab Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Salesforce Admin/ Developer CountryFinancial - Bloomington, IL January 2018 to Present COUNTRY Financial is Licensed in 40 states, we provide a variety of insurance products, as well as financial services, to more than one million households and businesses and we're growing every day.    Country Financial has taken an initiative to lunch the Property insurance for the year 2018 this has been started as Property Renters Insurance for the states of Arizona and Organ as a Pilot.    Responsibilities:  Property Renter's  • Interacted with various business team members to gather the requirements and documented the requirements  • Contractor personnel shall, in conjunction with the Project Manager or Business Analyst, maintain and update System Documentation including but not limited to:  • Design Document, Interface Control Documents, Source Code Documents  • Test Data and Test Cases, Test Reports with Results, User Guides, Administrator Guides  • Implementation Plan, Release Notes, Security Procedures  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on record pages.  • Involved in development of theSalesforce.com to include business requirement development, dashboard development, report & process flows and documentation.  • Provided custom reports and dashboards to support the needs of the users and executives.  • Designed and deployed Custom tabs, validation rules, Approval Processes and Auto-Response Rules for automating business logic  • Designed the solutions for business and technical requirements by customizing various standard objects of Salesforce.com (SFDC).  • Worked on Lightning Components Objects, Lightning Field Services.  • Worked on the third-party services for different services which are used in the application.  • Created WSDL files/Class for the integration of services and responses.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, email alerts, and field updates.  • Built Visualforce pages with JavaScript Remote objects.  • Designed custom objects, tabs, records, and views within SFDC to support new workflow processes.  • Implemented pick lists, dependent pick lists, lookups, master detail relationships, validation and formula fields to the custom objects.  • Built reusable components, customized Salesforce1 mobile app using Lightning component aura framework and writing advanced Apex classes, Triggers, Web Services with SIG integrations, Batches, Test classes.  • Participated in CPQ/CLM Implementation lifecycles, end to end implementation of Apttus CPQ, Salesforce CPQ, and CLM  • Created POC on Pardot Automation and B2B Market Solution.  • Expertise in aura framework, Lightning Components and Salesforce Lightning Design System (SLDS), Field Service Lightning on Mobile Device.  • Created Aura based Components, Attributes, Controllers which can be compatible to access through Lightning App builder.  • Handled Different Portals and use of difference Tab's and Profiles.  • Handled Prod and Non-Prod code Deployed on daily bases for the Agile teams.  • Working closely with Sales, Service, Community clouds -business users and product owner to gather the requirements based on business functionality, implementing user friendly and easy navigation applications as required.  • Participating in daily standups and Sprint planning/Retrospective/Code Review meetings.  • Exposed Knowledge Articles for non-salesforce users on public domains using communities and customized the communities, themes, community pages, components.  • Handling Go-No -Go Meetings and coordinating offshore deliverables.  • Extensively Worked as an Environment Support coordinator/Release Coordinator.  • Track down the Production incidents and debug the or troubleshot the incident depending on the priority.  • Handling the Non-Prod URL's and setting up Passwords coordinating with the WAS admins and DBA's.  • Handled day-to-day administration, maintenance and support of salesforce modules for users.  • Worked environment integration environments issues and worked with third party venders for the fix.  • Coordinates Testing Teams for the daily deployment on Smoke Test.  • Created POC on Work Orders Using Field Service, Efficient on-site service to Meet the features of Field Service Lightning.  • Triggered interface events by user interactions, which includes Lightning Component framework and also involved in building Lightning Components using the aura framework.  • Developed Web Service Callouts from Salesforce to External Applications using SOAP and REST API.  • Hand On experience UI development with JavaScript  • Used Force.com Eclipse IDE for developing Visual Force pages, Controller classes and Triggers  • As a Salesforce Developer from Onsite, I used to write Test Cases, Check the Code Coverage, run the Force.com Security Scanner and direct the team to make necessary Changes  • Involved with Salesforce.coPremier Support and handled the support cases with the help of Salesforce.com support.    Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visual force Pages, Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Dashboards, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Sales force, Sandbox. Salesforce Development/Admin Engineer Horace Mann Insurance - Springfield, IL November 2016 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Designed the solutions for business and technical requirements by customizing various standard objects of Salesforce.com (SFDC).  • Involved in deploying the CRM tool Salesforce.com to include business requirement development, dashboard development, report & process flows and documentation.  • Provided custom reports and dashboards to support the needs of the users and executives.  • Created Aura based Components, Attributes, Controllers which can be compatible to access through Lightning App builder.  • Interacted with various business team members to gather the requirements and documented the requirements  • Designed and deployed Custom tabs, validation rules, Approval Processes and Auto-Response Rules for automating business logic.  • Expert in configuring bundles (features, options, option constraints, configuration attributes), product rules, price rules, discount schedules, block pricing, cost, contracted prices, quote templates, quote processes, custom actions, and other related attributes.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, email alerts, and field updates.  • Built Visualforce pages with JavaScriptRemoteobjects.  • Designed custom objects, tabs, records, and views within SFDC to support new workflow processes.  • Implemented pick lists, dependent pick lists, lookups, master detail relationships, validation and formula fields to the custom objects.  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on record pages.  • Created New Reports, New Dash Boards, and worked on Data Loader by uploading about close to a million records and experienced in cleansing and De-duplicating bulk loads.  • Visualforce Pages for Lightning Experience, Alternates for Java Script Codes, Sharing Visualforce pages between Classic and Lightning.  • Expertise in aura framework, Lightning Components and Salesforce Lightning Design System (SLDS).  • Triggered interface events by user interactions, which includes LightningComponentframework and also involved in building Lightning Components using the aura framework.  • Handled day-to-day administration, maintenance and support of salesforce modules for users.  • Used Force.com Eclipse IDE for developing Visual Force pages, Controller classes and Triggers  • As a Salesforce Developer from Onsite, I used to write Test Cases, Check the Code Coverage, run the Force.comSecurityScanner and direct the team to make necessary Changes  • Experience in modifying Visualforcepages to be supported in LightningExperience and good understanding of lightning mode and its features.  • Created modern Enterprise Lightning Apps combining Lightning Design System, Lightning App Builder and Lightning Component features.  • Create a signature that would help external system to verify the sent request to store Lead information from salesforce org.  • Involved with Salesforce.coPremier Support and handled the support cases with the helpof Salesforce.com support.    Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visual force Pages, Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Dashboards, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Sales force, Sandbox. Automation Test Engineer Gray Logic Technologies - Austin, TX May 2014 to July 2015 Texas Health Care, is a multi-specialty physician group practice, owned and governed by physicians, for physicians. Texas Health Care currently has a membership of more than 150 physicians with practices throughout Tarrant County. Physicians portal allows the user to search for the registered physicians and membership module allows to take memberships.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzing the Business Requirement Document, High level and Low-level design documents.    • Create and review - Test scenarios, Test suite preparation, Test Data creation, Test case execution and Defect logging. SADF    • Wrote Automation scripts using Selenium web driver.    • Automation of functional testing framework for all modules using Selenium Web Driver.    • Preparation of Test scripts using Selenium Web driver (Automation tool) with java for Functional Test cases.    • Automating the regression & project cases using Selenium.    • Designed Hybrid framework in Selenium and captured data dynamically from web controls.    • Performing Failure Analysis for the regression failed cases using Selenium.    • Organize weekly meetings with Client leads &Onsite manager regarding the Automation status.    • Point of contact for Process related activities like Metrics reporting & Operation clarity.    • Review - Defect prevention plan and Software configuration management plan.    • Responsible for all aspects of project delivery (Test Design, Test execution and Test summary report) and management (Test metrics and Risk analysis) to client partners, offshore manager and Onsite manager.    • Organize weekly meetings with offshore managers, Onsite Coordinator & Onsite manager to discuss the Project goals and report the health of the overall project status.    • Performed Integration Testing in Vendor Development environment and System Testing in SIT environment and User Acceptance Testing in Pre-Production Environment.    • Involved Preparation of Traceability Matrix and mapping the Test Cases with the requirements and    • Test Metrics in Quality Center.    • Reported bugs in Quality Center with server logs information from Web and DB servers.    • Performed Regression Testing as part of every build.    • Developed SQL Queries for testing various Database validations.    • Implemented Selenium using TestNG frame work with Java.    Environment: Quality Center, BDD, Windows, Java, SQL, Oracle, Selenium (WebDriver, RC, Grid), TestNG, Eclipse, Firefox, IE, Chrome, Safari, Opera, Performance testing. Jr. Java Programmer Trillion IT Services - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2013 to April 2014 The project was about building a cube for Health Care Group to collect budget by project across the Indian sub-continent, assisting management to visualize the budget required for various projects, costs incurred until date and forecast for coming years which includes total project costs, head count and expenses, as well as to see the impact of budget revisions for the projects across various support product lines on the fly.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the application using agile methodology.    • Used the iterative incremental framework Scrum with Agile Software Development.    • Designed and developed UI using JSP, dynamic JSP and page validations using JavaScript.    • Involved in database schema design and review meetings.    • Configured application flow, controlling logic and navigation.    • Designed and developed base classes, framework classes and common re-usable components.    • Involved in re-factoring the existing components to meet the current application requirements.    • Used various Java and J2EE APIs including JDBC, XML, Servlets, JSP, and JavaBeans, Spring Framework.    • Involved in Performance tuning, debugging issues in testing and deployment phases.    • Implemented RDBMS to add the additional condition for the system to support a tabular structure for the data with enforced relationships between the tables.    • Utilized PL/SQL for querying the database.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, EJB, XML, HTML, Java Script, JDBC, Oracle, PL/SQL, Eclipse, spring, Hibernate, RDBMS, Tomcat, Windows. Education Master's Skills Android, Linux, Unix, Mac, Mac os, Apex, COM, Visualforce, Salesforce Admin, Salesforce Additional Information Operating Systems Windows XP/7/8, Mac OS, UNIX and Linux, Android