Principal Financial Group Principal Financial Group ? Around 5 years of experience in software development life cycle (SDLC), which includes User Interaction, Business Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Deployment of Object Oriented, Client-Server, Web-Based, Distributed and Enterprise Applications with Java/J2EE technologies.  ? Experience in using Agile Software Development methodologies like Scrum, Sprint and Traditional software models like Waterfall and TDD.  ? Good Knowledge in developing web pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, AngularJS with webpage browser compatibility and responsive web design.  ? Experience in developing the application using Core Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, EJB, JMS, JDBC, Hibernate, Web Services (SOAP and REST), MVC framework (Struts, Spring MVC), SQL and Object-Oriented Programming techniques reinforced web-based enterprise applications.  ? Experience in implementation of frameworks like Struts (Struts, Tag Libraries and Struts custom validation rules, Tiles), Spring (Spring MVC, Spring Web Flow, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Data, Spring Batch, Spring TX), JSF, AJAX frameworks (Rich Faces, My Faces) and ORM frameworks like Hibernate, iBatis.  ? Experience in developing Web Services, related technologies &frame works: WSDL, SOAP, REST, JAX-WS, JAXB, JAX-RPC, AXIS and Jersey, SOAP UI and generating client's client using Eclipse for Web Services consumption.  ? Experienced in core java concepts like Collection Framework, Multi-threading, Generics, Annotations, Thread pools, JavaBeans.  ? Experience in implementing Design Patterns like Singleton, Factory, MVC, Data Access Object and Business Delegate.  ? Experience working with RDBMS such as MySQL, MS SQL Server, Teradata, DB2, Oracle.  ? Experience in working with the NoSQL Database like MongoDB to manage extremely large data sets.  ? Worked on deployment, installation, configuration and issues with Application servers like Apache Tomcat, IBM Web Sphere, BEA WebLogic and JBOSS Enterprise Application Server.  ? Experience on different IDEs such as RAD, Eclipse, Spring Tool Suite, and IntelliJ.  ? Subversion SVN, CVS, GIT and Visual Source Safe as versioning software tools.  ? Hands on experience in building tools like ANT, Maven and Gradle.  ? Good comprehension of Business work process, Business rationale and Business strategies for further execution of client prerequisite in a conveyed application environment. Work Experience Principal Financial Group Des Moines, IA July 2018 to Present Java Developer  Description: The Principal Financial Group offers businesses individuals and institutional clients a wide range of financial products and services including retirement, asset management, and insurance, through its diverse family of financial services companies.    Responsibilities:  ? Actively involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as Design, Analysis, Development and Testing.  ? Followed Agile Methodology to analyze, define, and document the application, which will support functional and business requirements and Coordinate these efforts with Functional Architects.  ? Involved in the development of the UI using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JQuery.  ? Implemented Restful and SOAP based web services using JAX-RS and JAX-WS respectively.  ? Designed and implemented application using Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring Annotations, Spring AOP, Spring Transactions, Spring Batch & Hibernate.  ? Implemented Spring IOC module to make code loosely coupled and Spring MVC for the application flow.  ? Implemented the authentication, authorization, and access-control features by using Spring Security and Oauth2.  ? Implemented Core Java concepts like Multithreading, Concurrency, Exception Handling and Collections wherever necessary in the application.  ? Used Spring Data Framework to use the features of Spring JDBC and Spring ORM classes like JDBC Template and Hibernate Template to perform the database operations by connecting to Data sources available.  ? Implement OAuth2 Security in application with Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF) that provides a User Account and Authentication (UAA) server that acts as an OAuth2 provider to secure app.  ? Created Database Objects like Schemas, Tables, Indexes, Views, User defined Functions, Stored Procedures in Oracle.  ? Automate build process through Gradle Script build framework.  ? Worked with Web Sphere application server that handles various requests from Client and used Jenkins to perform continuous Integration.  ? Used Git to maintain the version of the files and took the responsibility to do the code merges from branch to trunk and creating new branch when new feature implementation starts.  ? Used Eclipse as an IDE for Application development.  Environment: Java, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JQuery, AngularJS, Spring Boot, Spring Security, Spring Batch, Spring Data, Spring MVC, XML, JSON, Hibernate, Oracle, Gradle, Jenkins, Web Sphere, JMS, RESTful, Git, Agile Methodology. Java Developer ACT - Iowa City, IA May 2016 to June 2018 Description: ACT is a nonprofit organization to help people achieve education through program of study and workplace. We unlock, create and deliver solutions no other organization can. The services are for high school students, educators, policymakers, job searchers are provided with advanced search, enabling companies to develop workforce. ACT delivers nearly 15 million of assessments each year and also focus on research service, skill development.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used Agile methodology (SCRUM) for developing application.  ? Upgraded existing UI with HTML5, CSS3, JQuery with AngularJS interaction.  ? Designed, developed a custom, single-page, responsive web application on front end using AngularJS.  ? Developed forms for user event handling and validations using JQuery.  ? Developed Restful Micro Services using Spring Rest and MVC, for OSS services.  ? Implemented the application using Spring IOC, Spring MVC Framework, Spring Batch, Spring Boot and handled the security using Spring Security.  ? Implemented RESTful services with JAX-RS using Spring Boot and Micro Services Architecture.  ? Designed and developed third-party payment services, REST services to offer users convenient payment methods using various APIs provided by various third-party payment processors based on OAuth 2.0 protocol.  ? Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing Spring Inversion of Control (IOC) and Hibernate.  ? Designed and developed the End Points (Controllers), Business Layer, DAO Layer using Hibernate/JDBC template, using Spring IOC (Dependency Injection).  ? Used Spring AOP Module to implement logging in the application to know the application status.  ? Used Spring DAO Module along with Struts Framework to deal with Database.  ? Developed REST architecture-based web services to facilitate communication between client and servers.  ? Developed the persistence layer using Hibernate Framework, created the POJO objects and mapped using Hibernate annotations and Transaction Management  ? Implemented Web-Services to integrate between different applications components using Restful web services by using Jersey.  ? Extensively used JSON to parse the data from server side to satisfy the business requirement.  ? Used WebSphere server to route our JMS queue messages to different business floors and configured routes in WebSphere and used WebSphere in e-mail notification.  ? Extensively used JUnit for unit testing, integration testing and production testing.  ? Involved in installing and configuring Maven for application builds and deployment  ? Configured and customized logs using Log4J.  ? Used JIRA to assign, track, report and audit the issues in the application.  ? Setup the continuous Integration (CI) and continuous Deployment (CD) process for the application using the Jenkins.  ? Used GIT to maintain the version of the files and took the responsibility to do the code merges and creating new branch when new feature implementation starts and Eclipse as IDE.  Environment: Java 1.7, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JQuery, Micro services, AngularJS 2.0, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring Security, Spring Batch, Spring Boot, RESTful Services, Hibernate, JSON, GIT, JUnit, Maven, WebSphere Application Server, JAX-RS, JIRA, Jenkins and Eclipse. Java Developer Innovapptive - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2013 to December 2014 Description: PRS or Price reporting system is responsible to publish the rates to the customers and as to maintain the users across the FedEx locations and its subsidiaries. It interacts with the customer fusion and existing legacy systems to access the customer information and legacy data.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in SDLC- Requirements gathering, Conceptual Design, Analysis, Detail Design, Development, System Testing and User Acceptance Testing.  ? Used Agile approach for the Software Development  ? Developed user interface with Servlets and JSP.  ? Also, worked with the PDF and EXCEL format file download of user data on JSP's when user wanted to save his/her personal data on JSP page tables.  ? Involved in implementing the DAO pattern for database connectivity and used the JDBC API extensively.  ? Designed and developed the UI using JSP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Responsible in creating Servlets, which route submittals to appropriate Enterprise Java Bean (EJB) components and render, retrieved information.  ? Implemented Use Case Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams during the design phase using Rational Rose.  ? Used Multi-threading for performance tuning.  ? Extensively used WSAD while writing code & used VCS for version control.  ? Deployed applications on Apache Tomcat application server instances in all the respective environments.  ? Deployed and tested the prototype on Apache Tomcat and contributed to deployment and maintenance on Apache Tomcat Server.  ? Used ANT scripts to build the application and deployed on Web Sphere Application Server  ? Built scripts using ANT that compiles the code, pre-compiles the JSPs, built an EAR file and deployed the application on the application server.  ? Used STS as IDE for the Application Development.  Environment: Java, J2EE, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, Servlets, Struts, JSP, Multi-threading, XML, EJB, ANT, JDBC, Oracle, UML, Agile Methodology, Web Sphere Application Server and STS. Skills ECLIPSE, EJB, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE