Sr. JAVA Developer Sr. <span class="hl">JAVA</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> JAVA Developer Dallas, TX Over 10+Years of progressive experience in all the phases of software development life cycle including Design, development and implementation of software applications using Java/J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, JSP, PL/SQL, with over 7 years experience in HTML,CSS, XML, XSLT, Java Script, AJAX, API, Restful, Unix, Shell, Script, Restful WebSphere, WebSphere Application Server, WebLogic Application Server, WebSphere Business Modeler, and WebSphere Business Monitor. Good Experience with System Integration architecture, Interface design and development.    • Proficient in the development of Client/server and web applications using JAVA, J2EE, J2SE, technologies and Web technologies for enterprise applications.  • Expert in developing enterprise web-based application based on Java technologies using J2EE, J2SE, EJB, Java Servlets, Struts, Java Beans, JMS, JNDI, ANT and Apache Maven.  • Expertise in developing web based GUIs using Java Applets, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, XML, DOJO, AJAX, JSF, & spring form tags.  • Seasoned professional in various frameworks: Struts, Hibernate, Spring 2.0, JSF.  • Extensive work experience in JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, JDBC.  • Strong understanding and excellent skill in developing, designing, professional, Ajax driven elegant enterprise web application using Ajax, Flex, Action Script and JavaScript, CSS, HTML, Custom Tag Libraries, JSF, JQuery, Dojo, ExtJs and various java design patterns  • Experience in all phases of software development life cycle (SDLC), which includes User Interaction, Business Analysis/Modeling, Design/Architecture, Development, Implementation, Integration, Documentation, Testing, and Deployment  • Extensive Knowledge on databases like Oracle, DB2 and MySQL.  • Developed ANT scripts, and used MAVEN tool to build and deploy J2EE Applications  • Proficient in working with JavaScript Frameworks like AngularJS, Backbone.js.  • Working Knowledge on XML, XSLT, XPATH, XQUERY, and XSL-FO.  • Hands on experience in configuration and deployment of multi-tier applications using servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat.  • Extensive experience to SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) and experience in developing web services using Axis, WSDL, SOAP, UDDI, WS_Security, XML-RPC and JAXB/JAXP.  • Extensive experience working in Spring 2.5/3.0 framework, Struts [ ] framework, O/R Mapping Hibernate 3.x framework and web services (SOAP and RESTful).  • Strong experience in writing SQLs, stored procedures, joins and Triggers.  • Good working knowledge of database tools like TOAD, PL/SQL, Db Visualizer and SQL Navigator.  • Good understanding of NoSQL Data bases and hands on work experience in writing application on No SQL databases like Cassandra and Mongo DB.  • Good working knowledge of Ant for project build/test/deployment, Log4j for logging and Junit for unit and integration testing.  • Strong knowledge of IDE's Eclipse, Net Beans, IBM Rational Application Developer (RAD 7.0.0), WebSphere studio application developer.  • Good Work experience on RDBMS like Oracle and MySQL. Creating SQL statements & subqueries.  • Development web components using JSP, Servlets and server side components using EJB 3.0 under J2EE Environment.  • Design and development of web-based applications using different web and application servers such as Apache Tomcat, WebSphere 8.0, JBoss, 7 and WebLogic.  • Implemented Unit Testing using Junit and Integration Testing during the projects.  • Exposure to tools such as ANT and hands on experience on SQlyog and SQL developer.  • Knowledge on UNIX shell scripting like Perl scripting and korn scripting.  • Used Korn Shell Scripts for doing manipulations of the flat files.  • Used SVN, CVS, Harvest, Clear case and Clear Quest for Version controlling and error reporting.  • Extensive experience in software development methodologies Agile.  • Commitment to achieving corporate goals. Able to establish priorities and adapt quickly to changing needs.  • Excellent team player with leadership abilities. Strong analytical skills with excellent interpersonal and communication skills with analytical ability and understanding of Organizational functioning. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. JAVA Developer GlaxoSmithKline - Zebulon, NC August 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed and Implemented WebServices and used Spring Framework.  • Worked on writing request specs for API endpoints using Rspec and related tools.  • Implemented adult filter for images using AWS Rekognition API and AWS S3.  • Used spring dependency injection mechanism to inject application and dependencies at runtime.  • Used Struts validation frame work to validate the form fields.  • Used DOJO widgets also used JSON for object representation.  • Involved in creating various Hibernate mapping files and configuring hibernate configuration file to persist data into the database.  • Good experience on reporting APIs such as POI and iText. Some experience on Jasper.  • Designed and implemented Report Module (using Jasper Report framework) in phase 2.  • Used various Cache providers like EHCache given by the Hibernate Frame Work to cache the results that reduce database hits for every DML operations.  • Created Real-time Reporting systems and dashboards using Adobe Flex, xml, MySQL, and Perl.  • Created dispatch action classes and use validation framework for validating fields.  • Used Hibernate Query Language (HQL) for accessing data from database.  • Created database objects such as tables, views, stored procedures, Triggers, joins etc.with My SQL.  • Developed the applications using JSP, Struts and implemented MVC Architecture.  • Designed the Java Server Pages using Style sheets, HTML, and XML.  • Involved in implementing the different web services like SOAP.  • Used the Soap UI tool to test whether the expected and actual results of SOAP web service are same or not.  • Developed MAVEN scripts to build and deploy the application in the JBOSS Application Server.  • Expertise in Project process flow management and thorough knowledge of software development life cycle in Agile and Scrum environment.  • Created Hibernate Mapping files and modelled the database.  • Involved in the implementation of DAO using Spring-Hibernate ORM.  • Writing the front end look and appearance for the screens using JavaScript, AJAX, AngularJS and JQuery.  • Responsible for writing J2EE compliant code using Java for an application development effort. This involves working with JSP, Servlets, JDBC, XML, EJB etc.  • Involved in designing the data stage job to implement ILOG JRules Component.  • Developed web pages using HTML5, CSS3 and implemented Client Side validations using JavaScript. Developed RESTful services using Jersey, JAX-RS and Restlet to call third party vendors  • Designed a full-fledged RESTful based webservices and exposed for iOS and Android based clients  • Integrated spring with ORM frameworks Hibernate and Spring JDBC to do database operations with ORACLE.  • Developing applications using Hibernate ORM mappings using xml and annotation configurations.  • Extensively used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Involved in converting database objects to Java objects conversion with the help of Ibatis persistence framework.  • Developed and implemented Single Page Application (SPA) in AngularJS by consuming JSON from ATG.  • Extensive knowledge in developing applications in a single page (SPAs) using various JavaScript frameworks like Angular Js, Backbone.Js, Jade, Pure CSS and Bootstrap.  • Designed and programmed a database for tracking inventory in MySQL and a website to access the database using PHP and JavaScript.  • Experience with Performance Tuning for Oracle RDBMS using Explain Plan and HINTS. Good knowledge of key Oracle performance related features such as Query Optimizer, Execution Plans and Indexes.  • Excellent understanding of PL/SQL modules such as collections, cursors (Implicit, Explicit, Ref), packages, Materialized views.  • Experience in planning, designing and building Cassandra cluster and capable of deploying the Cassandra cluster in cloud, on premises, working on the data storage and disaster recovery for Cassandra.  • Experienced on Hadoop Map Reduce and HDFS and also should be able to independently write and debug the code.  • Developed ReST API using JAX-RS to fetch new e-Gift Card Data for an eligible customer.  • Good knowledge of Service Oriented Architecture and have exposed and consumed SOAP and REST APIs.  • Design and Developed using WebService using Apache CXF.  • Worked on Integrated Development Environment like Eclipse and My Eclipse and JBOSS Developer studio.  • Extensive experience in Production Support (operations including Weblogic Installation.  • Experience in multiple version control tools like GIT, CVS, and SVN.  • Extensive experience as ETL(Ab Initio/Unix/Teradata/DB2/Oracle) - Designer, Developer and Performance Tester alongside with intermediate experience in Big Data Hadoop Technologies like Hive/PIG/Sqoop/Git Hub/Hbase and HDFS commands.  • Experience with JUnit and Log4j in developing test cases and determining application functionality.  • Developed QA processes automation test scripts using Selenium to test Web based user interfaces for different type of browsers. Tested Server REST API.  • Experienced in the use of agile approaches including Test-Driven Development and Scrum.  • Applied Object Oriented Programming (OOP) concepts (including UML use cases, class diagrams, and interaction diagrams).  • Design & Development of the User Interfaces using HTML, CSS and JSP.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSTL and Custom Tag Libraries and AJAX to speed the application.  • Developed Servlets and Worked extensively on SQL.  • Developed various UI (User Interface) components using Struts (MVC), JSP, and HTML.  • Has developed XML Parsing logic using DOM Parsers.  • Design and develop enterprise or application architectures and RFI/RFP delivery solutions using SOA (Service Oriented Architecture), web services, DODAF (Department of Defense Architecture Framework), and segment architecture.    Environment:  Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Ibatish, Angular.js, React.JS, Node.JS, Bootstrap.JS, Backbone.JS, JavaScript, Oracle, PL/SQL, Cassandra, Hadoop, REST, Soap, Web Services, API, Restful, Eclipse, Weblogic, Git, Git Hub, Junit, Selenium, Agile, UML, JSP, JSTL, SERVLET, Gradel , MAVEN, XML, SQA, JQuery, Struts, JBoss, DOJO, Jasper, Apache Tomcat Sr. Java Developer Novartis - Morrisville, NC March 2014 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed the API Proxies using the API Management platform APIGEE.  • Developed and Consumed Web Services using SOAP Protocols and RESTFUL API which involves in extending the usage of our web application services through other web applications.  • Experience in SOAP, REST API Web Services using Apache CFX, Jersey, Rest Easy, JAX-RS, and JAX-WS, JSON and XML data.  • Involved in designing the documentation by using YAML in Open API Specification.  • Involved in creating the proxies using Transformation, Mediation and Security Policies through APIGEE.  • Used Ajax, Angular.js and JavaScript to handle asynchronous request, CSS to handle look and feel of the application.  • Mapped and managed Object/table relationships in Hibernate.  • Developed Actions classes, beans, JSP's and Data Objects in Java.  • Created Test Plans using Quality Center by JUnit.  • Implemented features like logging, user session validation using Spring-AOP module.  • Developed server-side services using Java, Spring, and RESTful Web Services.  • Developed and implemented the interactive functionality using JSP.  • Used Subversion for Version Control Management.  • Used Log4j as the Logging Framework, Maven for project management, Mockito/ JUnit for unit testing.  • Used connection pooling for optimization using JDBC interface.  • Prepared Use-Cases from the given requirements and also interacted with clients for requirements gathering and clarifications.  • Used Bamboo to continuous integration and deploy the application to various environments that ties automated buildsand tests.  • Developed Utility Classes, which are used throughout the application.  • Developed RESTful web service to make the central bank new features available for the customers.  • Used Apache Velocity to ensure clean separation between the presentation tier and business tiers in a Web application  • Developed Stored Procedures for database intensive tasks. Implemented persistence layer using JPA and writing SQL queries based on JPA criteria API. Involved in designing and developing web screens using Spring and Hibernate and also migrated screens from legacy Struts to Spring MVC. Implemented the caching mechanism in Hibernate to load data from Oracle database.  • Implemented Hibernate in the data access object layer to access and update information in the MySql Database.  • Developed the application using Struts Framework which is based on the MVC design pattern.Converted the existing EJB session beans which call the host (Mainframe system) into POJO's.  • Developed administrative interfaces with the technologies of JSP, JSF, AJAX, JavaScript, spring and Hibernate.  • Created applications, connection pools, deployment of JSPs, Servlets, and EJBs in WebSphere.  • Developed applications in a single page (SPAs) using various JavaScript frameworks like Angular Js, Backbone.Js, Jade, Pure CSS and Bootstrap.  • Developed JavaScript based components using jQuery framework Grid and Tree Panel with client reports customized according to user requirements.  • Designed and developed re-usual import frame work using java, Spring MVC and Iframe which can be used for different imports in different screens.  • Developed user interfaces using JSP, JSF frame work with AJAX, Java Script, HTML, DHTML, and CSS.  • Used JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, CSS3, and HTML5 as data and presentation layer  • Developed a new tool on the Express Node.js MVC platform that allows marketers to insert dynamic content in email sends based on location and temporal factors.  • Worked on the modernization of a legacy and outsourced UI. Technologies used were Backbone.js, Angular.js, Ember.js, Can.js, and JQuery.  • Developed the UI panels using JSF, XHTML, CSS, DOJO and JQuery  • Developed using JQuery for CSS Manipulation, Events, Effects, Animation and Ajax interaction for Rapid Web Development. Java and JSP developer for J2EE web application on WAS, DB2 and AIX.  • Used JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, CSS3, and HTML5 as data and presentation layer technology. Implemented all the CRUD operations using JPA query language. Worked on PL/SQL and created views, triggers, procedures, function and stored procedures.  • Worked on JDBC to select and update the data from the MySQL database.  • Built a Restful API to save and retrieve geolocations using a remote server in Java using Spring, MongoDB, Apache CXF, and JAX-RS.  • Experience in implementing SOA architectures with web services using WSDL, SOAP and UDDI and also implemented JSON Restful web services.  • Handled external NTLM authentication in Python and PHP using RESTful API  • Developed SOAP web services utilizing business logic for CRUD functionality and RestEasy web services for creating reports.  • Prototyped Web services with Cassandra (NoSQL) in the Backend for Sequence retrieval.  • Used Eclipse IDE for designing, coding and developing applications.  • Involved in setting up of the training environment in Websphere Portal and Websphere application servers for partners to improve adoption of the application and to retire legacy ordering systems.  • Used JUnit/JMock for to write unit tests, STIQ for UI testing. STIQ is an open source testing suite developed by Solutions IQ which is based on Selenium and Fitnesse.  • Established a lightweight Scrum project management process.  • Designed the UML, created class, sequential diagrams using Borland Together Architecture, modified code, configured WebLogic server and project in Oracle.  • Developed the front-end web pages using HTML, JSP, JSTL, JavaScript, JQuery and Ajax and AngularJS for presentation layer.  • Developed the front end using JSP JSTL, AJAX and Display Tag libraries.  • Involved in web component design and development using JSF, Servlets, and taglibs.  • Worked with IDE as Eclipse Indigo and deployed into Oracle WebLogic Application Server & used Maven build tool to achieve more functionality for build process.  • Wrote XML files containing Queries that are going to use an application and program to access them.  • Worked on the Mule ESB build on top of the SOA to develop the integration plugin to exchange data across multiple platforms.  • Configured the Web sphere application server to connect with Oracle Server in the back end by creating JDBC data source and configured MQ Series and JMS Queues with IBM RAD and WAS to create new connection factories and queues.  • Worked in Windows and Oracle Enterprise Linux, Apache Tomcat, Oracle WebLogic Server.  • Developed shell scripts, on Linux platform, to process data from upstream systems that were scheduled to be executed at specific times by Autosys.  • Developed custom web forms using PHP and JavaScript.    Environment:  Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, STRUTS, PHP, JSF, AJAX, API, JavaScript, CSS, HTML5, DB2, CRUD, PL/SQL, JDBC, Apache CXF, Web Services, Eclipse, JDBC, UML, Angular.JS, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, DBeaver, Hibernate, SVN, Bamboo, Ant, Log4J, Tomcat, WEB SPHERE PORTAL, SUBVERSION (SVN), Git, Git Hub, jUNIT, SCRUM, JSP, Restful, Servelt, Maven, Xml, iTEXT, Oracle, GWT. Java Developer SEI Investments - Oaks, PA March 2012 to March 2014 Responsibilities:  • Worked on the Spring framework like Spring IOC and Spring DAO Design and develop Servlets, JSPs,  • Using spring integration with IBatis for persistence. All SQL map name spaces are configured in sqlmap-config file.  • Implemented views using Struts tags, JSTL and Expression Language.  • JavaBeans with dependency injection to implement JSF framework. Good working experience developing advanced Swing components.  • Developed Scalable applications using Stateless session EJBs.  • Implemented CSS3, DOM API, DOJO and Ajax to create a dynamic and interactive experience.  • Implemented functionality using Servlet, JSP, HTML and Struts Framework., Hibernate, Spring, Java Scripts and Weblogic.  • Developed Code using Struts framework, based on the MVC design pattern.  • Developed the presentation layer using Struts Tag Libraries.  • Developed the application with iterative methodology, recapturing the existing code and writing a new code for most of the modules.  • Created POC for Spring Batch for running batch jobs.  • Worked on backend logic using Servlets, EJB, Hibernate and JDBC  • Developed page specific elements, handlers, web beans, view helper classes, JSP pages & fragments by using design patterns and java standards.  • Analyzed, designed, validated the business logic of the system and implemented the application.  • Developed business services using EJB's and used SOAP API.  • Translated functional requirements into technical design by gathering the user stories.  • Developed order history and order status of all the Authorized agent's specific bonds  • Developed dynamic pages for generating a report for displaying the existing business rules based on a search criteria to be reviewed by the CNA internally.  • Developed Search Tool for the organization to display reports agent wise, month wise, weekly.  • Developed the UI pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery and AJAX.  • Developed servlets for generating reports in PDF format.  • Implemented multiple high-performance MongoDB replica sets on EC2 with robust reliability.  • Implemented logging using log4j.  • Developed Servlets and Worked extensively on My SQL.  • Written JQuery Validations for the User Front-ends.  • Maintened of data in different Oracle Database and environments using TOAD.  • Worked on Hibernate object/relational mapping according to database schema.  • Used JavaScript and jQuery for validating the input given to the user interface.  • Used JQuery JavaScript libraries for providing richer user interface and facilitates asynchronous request invocations using AJAX.  • Used TOAD for database query testing, in the process of optimizing the queries.  • Involved in writing CTG, JCICS classes to interact with Mainframe DB2.  • Designed and developed the input/output data formats in XSD for the WSDL files and accordingly implementing services using Apache AXIS2.  • Developed Web Services to communicate to other modules using XML based SOAP and WSDL protocols.  • Followed an Agile, Software Development methodology. Used NetBeans IDE.  • Configuration and deployment of application on to JBoss application server.  • Created ClearCase VOBs and setup triggers and backups for a new project. Wrote roll out procedures and plans. Environment was mixed Windows and AIX.  • Involved in creating unit testing of various layers using Junit and created automated test scripts for integration testing using selenium.  • Expertise in employing Water Fall Model and best practices for software development.  • Participated in converting the business requirements to software specifications using Rational UML  • Was involved in writing JSPs, JavaScript and Servlets to generate dynamic web pages and web content.  • Good understanding of Oracle, SQL, Shell Script, JavaScript/JQuery, Log4j, ANT, Maven and Ajax concepts.  • Used WebServices for creating rate summary and used WSDL and SOAP messages for getting insurance plans from different module and used XML parsers for data retrieval.  • Quickly learned iText and implemented to solve Hungarian Special Character Issue.  • Working Closely with EMC Documentum to implement Engineering Design Storage Repository and Project Document Management.  • Designed and implemented interface elements using Google Web Toolkit.  • Using JIRA to manage the issues/project work flow.  • Designed Interactive GUIs using Java Applets and Swing.  • Involved in Installation & Configuration of Cognos in distributed environments on Solaris.  • Implemented two Java portals. One is Crystal Report Engine and the other is Jasper Report Engine as plug-in to other web-applications depending on the user's preferences.  • Installed and configured a multi-server, clustered ILOG environment. Documented architecture and trained client administrators.  • Designed various design Workflow Modules using BPM (Business Process Modeler) to implement Business Logic and Business rules using Ilog, Jrules.  • Layout and design the overall architecture and migration approaches using Oracle ADF.  • Migration of Business process modeling, views from Oracle BPM to Lombardi  • Reduced system downtime by 20% and increased on-line business opportunities / revenue by implementing content management system enhancements leveraging Web 2.0 technologies.  • Expertise in working with IBM MQ Series and Websphere Message Broker on various platforms like Sun Solaris 8/9, AIX, SUSE Linux, and Windows NT/2000/2003/XP.  • Hosted and configured applications in IIS, IBM Websphere, and Apache Tomcat under Windows and AIX platforms.  • Involving in Building the modules in Linux environment with ANT script.  • Involved in writing Unix Shell Script for performing automated tasks.  • Coded scripts to clean normalize, reformat data for loading into the ERP system using VB Script and Ruby scripts.  • Configured Word Press publishing software for non-profit firm. Created weblog layout in HTML, CSS and PHP based on an original design according to client's branding needs.  • Built custom websites for clients using CMS's (Drupal) by coding custom modules and themes, as well as utilizing e-commerce APIs for secure payment processing.  • Developed an in house Bankruptcy Intake program in Classic ASP/ASP.NET. Program is inherited from Classic ASP Debt intake program. Used Visual Studio 2008 to develop this mix program of both Classic ASP and ASP.NET. Used vbscript, JavaScript, and added some new ASP.NET pages.    Environment:  Java, J2EE, JEE, Spring, IBatis, Struts, JSF, EJB, DOJO, JavaScript, JQuery, MySQL, Toad, SQL Server, DB2, Coherence, Apache AXIS2, WSDL, NetBeans, JBoss, Mercurial, ClearCase, Selenium, Water fall model, UML, JSP, SERVLET, ANT, XML, iText, EMC Documentum, Google Web Toolkit, JIRA, SWING, Cognos, Jasper Report, ILOG, Jrules, Oracle Application Development Framework, Oracle Business Process Management, Web2.0, IBM MQ Series, Apache Tomcat, Linux, UNIX, Ruby, Word Press, Drupal, ASP. C, C++, Mainframe, COBOL, PL/I, JCL, SQL, SAS VB, ASP. Java Developer Bank of America - Charlotte, NC September 2010 to March 2012 Responsibilities:  • Developed Java Server Pages (JSP) for presentation layer using Struts Also client side validations using Struts Validator framework/ JavaScript.  • Extensively used EJB and various J2EE (JSP/EJB/JMS) component for the implementation of the modules.  • Involved in requirement gathering, writing technical proposals, planning, estimation, architecture and high level / low level design using Rational Rose and UML  • Extensively used Struts supporting the MVC architecture of the product interacting with the JSP/Servlet/Tag libraries for the UI component.  • Involved in the SOA implementation using Axis/WebLogic web service framework for different product integrations and Web Service interfaces using SOAP.  • Extensively used XSD for validations of XML transfer to the different Web Services.  • Used JMS / MQ series for transferring messages between different components using the JMS/Mail API framework.  • Used JBuilder IDE use for the development life cycle of the project.  • Deployed the application and tested on WebLogic Application Server.  • Each module was designed as a separate service interacting as Web services between each other.  • Used SVN as configuration management tool.  • Deployed the application and tested on JBoss Application Server.  • Eclipse IDE use for the development life cycle of the project.  • Used Database Oracle for the persistence layer.  • Written unit testing of various components with JUnit framework.  • Development in Java through IntelliJ, Eclipse Java IDE.  • Wrote ANT scripts to build application binaries JAR, WAR and EAR files.  • Used Log4j for logging the application log of the running system to trace the errors.    Environment:  Java, JSP, Servlet, Struts, AJAX, JDBC, EJB, XML, XSL, JMS, MQ Series, Oracle, WebLogic, Ant, Axis &JBuilder, Win-XP, EJB, ANT, Eclipse, Weblogic, UML. Java Developer AT&T SERVICES INC - Dallas, TX April 2009 to September 2010 Responsibilities:  • Design and implementation for the concept for the frameworks using Struts, Spring and Hibernate Frameworks and assisting with development environment configuration.  • Developed Java/J2EE code, business logic using Spring, Hibernate framework and OOP concepts, involved in Peer code reviews.  • Developed the Frontend application with AngularJS.  • Involved in complete software development life cycle management using UML (Unified Modeling Language) - Requirements gathering, Conceptual design, Analysis, Detailed design, and Development.  • Used Spring MVC framework & Integration for Server side programming.  • Developed UI based on struts framework, using JSF, JSP, JSTL, Servlets and Back Bone JS DHTML with extensive java scripts to reduce Server hits, improving performance.  • Developed Servlets and JSP to interact with EnterpriseJava Beans (EJB) containing all the Business Logic.  • Used Hibernate as the persistence layer to interact with Oracle DB.  • Wrote complex SQL, Stored Procedure, HSQL & Criteria queries and reviewed the same with peers.  • Responsible to resolve design issues and develop strategies to make ongoing improvements that support system flexibility and performance.  • JProfiler bridges the gap between a code profiler and a high-level JEE monitoring tool.  • Responsible to approve "Test Cases" created by Testing Team. Provide technical support to testing team to fix any issues in Functional Testing.  • Assess the technical feasibility of new technologies to enable integration into existing processes.  • Developed JSP as the view, Servlets as Controller to make calls to EJB as model.  • Worked on JBOSS Application Server to deploy application.  • Consumed and developed Restful Services with JAX-RS and Jersey.  • Used Soap UI Pro for Testing Web services.  • Used Apache Camel with URIs to work directly with any kind of Transport or messaging model such as HTTP, ActiveMQ, RabbitMQ and JMS.  • Developed Stored Procedures, Functions and created database tables.  • Used ClearCase for Source Control Management.  • Coded Test Cases and created Mock Objects using JMock and used JUnit to run tests.  Environment:  Spring, Hibernate, Jprofiler, Angular JS, DHTML, CSS, Servlets, UML, J2EE, JSP, JSF2.0, EJB, Struts Framework Taglibs, SQL, JavaScript, Oracle, JBoss, Websphere Application Server, Eclipse, JUnit, JMock, WSDL, Web services, XML, XSLT, XSD (Schema Designs), SOAP, RestFul Services, JSON, UNIX, UML, JNDI, JDBC, JMS. Software Developer Bank of America May 2008 to April 2009 Responsibilities:  • Developed the key modules Java, spring and Ibatis.  • Extensive Application of HTML, XHTML, CSS for design and styling of web pages.  • Implemented reusable services using Spring.  • Involved in developing Database access components using Spring DAO integrated with Hibernate/JPA for accessing the data.  • Involved in writing the database integration code using Hibernate. Leveraged the AOP features of spring framework to handle exceptions.  • Implemented webservices using Rest API.  • Implementation of AJAX, JSON, JQuery for create interactive Web Applications.  • Involved in developing and modifying UNIX shell scripts using VI editor.  • Implemented Ejb for maintaining the business logic.  • Written complex SQL queries and stored procedures.    Environment:  Java, J2ee, JSR, XML, Ejbs, Spring, webservices, Hibernate, Oracle, Websphere Application Server. Education Master of Science in Science and Engineering University of North Carolina Skills EJB (9 years), JAVA (9 years), ORACLE (9 years), XML (9 years), JAVASCRIPT (8 years), ruby (6 years), ruby on rails (5 years), IOS (6 years), Android (7 years), Python (6 years), Drupal (5 years), angular (6 years), node (5 years), react (4 years), vue.js (3 years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages & API  Java, JSP, Servlet, JDBC, Struts,JSF,Spring,Hibernate,Ibatis,Mybatis,SQL, PL/SQL, POI, EJB, JMS, UNIX shell script, Log4j, JUnit, SAX, DOM, JAXB, XML, Webservices, API, Restful    UI HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ext-Js, Ajax, JQuery  DBMS Oracle, DB2, SQL Server, Sybase  Web Services XML/XSD/XSLT, SOAP, WSDL, Rest webservices  Development tools Eclipse, WSAD, RAD, TOAD, SQL Developer, Rational Rose  Version Control CVS, SVN, VSS, GIT,RTC, Rational Clear Case  Operating System Windows, UNIX, SOLARIS, LINUX