Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - ATOS To obtain a job within my chosen field that will challenge me and allow me to use my education, skills and past experiences in a way that is mutually beneficial to both myself and my employer and allow for future growth and advancement.    Employer: ATOS Global IT Solutions and Services Private Limited Work Experience Java Developer ATOS March 2017 to Present Duration March 2017 to Present  Role Java Developer  Team Size 10    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Working on developing new features suggested by user as well provides fixes for bugs.  • Working on controller, DAO and model classes.  • Configured dispatcher servlet, view resolvers, global exception handlers etc.  • Perform all the deployment related work.    • Project 2: Bid Price Analysis Tool (ATOS Global B & PS)  Description: The main objective of this application is to arrive at a more accurate price to win at an early stage of a deal.  Technologies Used Java, Struts2, MySQL Software Engineer April 2016 to Present Professional Skills:  • Ability to adapt various technologies as per the need of the project.  • Ability to work in a team.  • Ability to communicate well with the team.  • Ability to take up challenging roles and working on a wide range of technologies.    Technical Skills:  Technologies Core Java, SQL, Hibernate  Frameworks Struts 2, Spring Core, Spring MVC  Tools Used Eclipse IDE, Apache Tomcat, JBOSS    Projects:  • Project 1: PARMA (ATOS Global IT Solutions and Services Private Limited )    Description: The main objective of this application is to assist a project manager in developing a project plan, assigning resources to build team, managing the project efforts, analysing workloads, perform project reports and managing and generating Contract and Project RDD data on weekly and monthly basis.    Technologies Used Java, Spring, MySQL Java Developer ATOS August 2016 to January 2017 Duration Aug 2016 to Jan 2017  Role Java Developer  Team Size 3  Roles and Responsibilities:  • My task included developing this application and implementing new features based on the requirement and also provide bug fixing.  • Implemented connectivity with database by using JDBC.  • Created database tables.  • All the deployment related work.  • Created web pages using JSP Education CDAC 2016 State Board 2008