Technical Development and Training Lead Technical Development and Training Lead Nashville, TN Work Experience Technical Development and Training Lead Bridge Connector May 2019 to Present Assumed additional responsibility over technical training as well, while keeping previous responsibilities as technical lead of core platform team. Own training and onboarding from a technical perspective.  • Lead effort to build new UI v2 with new in-house framework  • Built technical documentation for internal technology stack  • Lead a Bi-weekly meeting explaining product to all new hires (all departments)  • Lead security training education and other training programs for engineer improvement.  Full Stack Engineer (acting Frontend Lead) First developer hired in Nashville headquarters, where I went from refactoring code to assuming the responsibility of acting Frontend Lead. Lead a small team, mentored engineers, and interviewed new engineering candidates. Was the main contributor, writing majority of code for first version of our core products, SPA for building workflows. Product was used internally and in large part as a proof-of-concept which helped to raise additional funding. Bridge raised some $20 Million, and tripled personnel in about a year.  • Served as the primary point of contact for all frontend UI issues.  • Mentored team members on technical concepts (Vue, Vuex, Unit Testing via Jest)  • Built original implementation of Workflows (UI for core product offering) Full stack engineer (acting frontend lead) Bridge Connector June 2018 to Present First developer hired in Nashville headquarters, where I went from refactoring code to assuming the responsibility of acting Frontend Lead. Lead a small team, mentored engineers, and interviewed new engineering candidates. Was the main contributor, writing majority of code for first version of our core products, SPA for building workflows. Product was used internally and in large part as a proof-of-concept which helped to raise additional funding. Bridge raised some $20 Million, and tripled personnel in about a year.  • Served as the primary point of contact for all frontend UI issues.  • Mentored team members on technical concepts (Vue, Vuex, Unit Testing via Jest)  • Built original implementation of Workflows (UI for core product offering) Software Architect XOi Technologies January 2018 to June 2018 Full Stack Engineer by industry standards) working on the XOi Vision Platform used by the field service industry to help field service technicians to more easily perform their job, by providing real-time content capture to customers, workflows, and on-site information, telepresence, OCR & Transcription of content captured. Serving several large customers. (i.e. BP & Lee Company)  • Built new features and maintained SPA, (frontend & backend)  ? Frontend: React/Flux/Backbone.js Backend: Grails/MongoDB on AWS  • Provisioned and developed apps for wearable AR devices (Realwear HMT-1)  • Back-up point of contact fixing critical issues for high value contract over weekends. Jr. Java Developer Leidos February 2016 to December 2017 Full Stack) for the CDC's National Healthcare Safety Network (NHSN) servicing 18,000 medical facilities, and 43,000 active users.  • Rebuilt NHSN Enrollment as a SPA; used by hundreds of hospitals to register with NHSN.  • Refactored build script to reduce build time by up to 300%.  • New feature development and maintenance of NHSN using Java & Struts 2 MVC Part-time Technical Developer built and maintained mobile apps Designsensory May 2014 to December 2014 for clients private industry and government.  • Built over a dozen Android apps for the TN Vacation board using PhoneGap Java Developer Internship built 2014 Techtoberfest website Scripps Networks Interactive January 2014 to May 2014 with small team. Education Bachelor of Applied Science in (B.A.Sc.), Computer Programming & Computer Networking King University 2014 to 2015 Associate of Arts and Sciences in (A.A.S.), Computer Science & Networking Technology Pellissippi State Community College 2012 to 2014 Skills JAVA, JUNIT, UNIT TESTING, MONGODB, API, Devops, Java J2Ee