Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Franklin County Childrens Services Columbus, OH • 6 years of professional experience in complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Implementation of Client/Server, Multi-tiered web-based applications using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Experience in writing UNIX Shell Scripts using commands like awk, sed, tcsh, bash, Ksh and Perl to automate system  • Comprehensive experience in design and development of various web and enterprise applications using J2EE technologies and open source frameworks like Spring, Spring Boot, Struts2, Hibernate, JSF Prime faces.  • Solid Hands-on experience in end to end implementation of CI and CD (Continuous Delivery), DevOps processes using AWS Code Commit AWS Code Deploy, AWS Code Pipeline, Jenkins, and Ansible.  • Experience of core java API's such as Multi-Threading, Exception, Collection and used Apache Kafka for data streaming and data pipeline.  • Experience with Java 8 features such as lambda expressions, Parallel operations on collections and for effective sorting mechanisms and new Date Time API.  • Experienced in Object Oriented Programming, Data structures and design, Algorithm development and analysis, problem solving techniques. J2EE Design Patterns.  • Extensive experience in Agile Scrum methodology.  • Good Experience with JavaScript, MVC Framework AngularJS and knowledge on other frameworks.  • Experienced in building cross browser compatibility applications using AngularJS.  • Experience with working in JavaScript framework like jQuery, AngularJS.  • Good working knowledge in Apache Tomcat and Web Logic and WebSphere Servers.  • Having good interactions with IDEs Eclipse, IntelliJ, Spring Source Tool Kit and RAD.  • Having good experience in starting from coding, implementation and testing.  • Experience in build tool ANT, Maven and Jenkins.  • Experienced in handling Version Control Systems like SVN and GIT.  • Experienced in fixing Sonar violations.  • Expertise in using different SDLC tools including Code Management, Code Quality, Continuous Integration and Build, Repository Management, Content Management and Version Control Systems.  • Excellent knowledge of databases (MySQL, Oracle, SQL Server), views, querying using stored procedures and writing triggers.  • Competence in using various IDE and Developer tools.  • Experience in the full Software Development Life Cycle - requirements of Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, System performance analysis and Documentation.  • Strong Analytical, Problem Solving and debugging skills with excellent understanding of system development metrics, techniques and tools. Worked in design, development, unit testing and deployment of applications. Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Franklin County Childrens Services - Columbus, OH March 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed Thing Space IoT Platform Portal, which is a web application that allows developer  • community and entrepreneurs to access and embed Thing Space APIs into the application they develop.  • Writing the code using Lambda Expression and StreamAPIon JDK 8 ( Java 1.8).  • Worked on various portals under Thing Space account like Thing Space V2 Portal, Admin Portal, Support Portal and Unified Portal.  • Designed and developed Single Page Application for Thing Space portal using JavaScript, TypeScript, Angular6, HTML5, CSS3 and SCSS, Bootstrap, C3 JS.  • Worked on Admin and Support portals using React JS, Redux and NodeJS, Express Js.  • Used ES6 and JSX with react for component development. Used Babel to compile JSX and ES6 into JavaScript.  • Used React Router to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific  • views and synchronize data with server. Utilized React-Redux Action Creators, create Store from redux library to connect reducers and containers, to update the state and virtual DOM and wrote store unit tests.  • Worked on Unified portal using Hugo, static site generator to generate multiple HTML pages and integrated with Angular components to generate dynamic features (like Sign In/Sign Up, update Profile, Change Password etc.).  • Involved in creating responsive web pages based on Business Requirements using Bootstrap and styling using CSS3 for enhancing the look and feel of webpages.  • Used CSS preprocessor SASS to make CSS more efficient.  • Implemented Session Management, using ng-idle to handle user's idle state and respond based  • on user's activity using GO as backend.  • Led the design and development of the Account Management module, implemented features like user invitation, role/attribute-based access control, single/multi-tenant support, etc.  • Worked on ODS - Operational Device Security, to enhance device security using profiles and groups.  • Used C3 JS for data visualizations of number of devices with security alerts, firewall activation  • and firewall violations.  • Worked on E2E testing using Protractor framework.  • Greatly involved in writing unit tests for this application using Jasmine-Karma framework.  • Worked with Bamboo to run tests and deploy to production.  • Extensively used TSLint to ensure that the project adheres to a coding standard.  • Worked closely with business system analysts understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules been built.  • Played key role in Agile environment. Participated in daily Scrum standup meeting and bi-weekly agile iteration planning meeting (IPM).  • Used Bitbucket for version control, Jira for project management, Confluence for document sharing and Bamboo for CI/CD. Java Developer WAWA INC August 2017 to February 2018 PA  Responsibilities:  • Involved in creating pages from mockups using JavaScript, Angular JS, jQuery, CSS3, and HTML5.  • Developed OAuth2 Security on RESTful web services for the log in page and for the Payment Process.  • Worked with Bootstrap Twitter Framework and Angular JS to Design single page application.  • Implemented modularization for entire application by using MVC.  • Created Directives, Controllers and Services by using AngularJS.  • Built dynamically generated dropdown lists using Ajax, jQuery UI and Angular JS.  • Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Designed business applications using web technologies like HTML5, XHTML 2.0, and CSS based on the W3C standards.  • Developed generalized service class by using AngularJS and Ability to rapidly prototype interface designs in hand-coded validating, standards-compliant, and semantically rich code and be aware of cross-browser compatibility and bugs.  • Worked on implementation of modules with integration with service desk & clarity for ticket management &portfolio integration of services.  • Created and optimized graphic prototype websites and applications interfaces using HTML5 and CSS3.  • Implemented and designed user interface for web-based customer application.  • Developed data formatted web applications and deploy the script using client-side scripting using JavaScript.  • Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility and fixed the bugs for several browsers.  • Extensively used CSS3 (Cascading Style Sheets) along with RWD to apply different styles to the layouts for varying screen sizes and pixels.  • Created cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  • Produced content pages with CSS3 layout and style markup presentations and also used JavaScript methods and properties. Java Developer Alcon November 2016 to July 2017 Forth worth, TX  Responsibilities:  • Used Spring Boot for developing individual component (Micro services)  • Worked on AWS cloud resources which includes launching, maintaining and troubleshooting of EC2 instances, and S3 buckets, Elastic Load Balancer (ELB), Elastic Search and Relational Database Services (RDS).  • Worked on Creating AWS Route 53 to route traffic between different regions.  • Created AWS Security Groups for deploying and Configuring AWS EC2 instances.  • Developed Java API to interact with the Amazon SQS used for sending bulk emails.  • Developed the micro services using Spring Sleuth, Config Server and NETFLIX OSS (Eureka, Hystrix, and Zuul).  • Worked on containerization using tools like Docker and Setup Docker on Linux and configured Jenkins to run underDockerhost.  • Worked on JDK 8 to write the code on functional interfaces, default methods in interfaces and filters using Stream.  • Worked on implementing and consuming RESTful web services using JAX-RS annotations.  • Implemented RESTful services to consume as well as produce JSON and XML web services in the application  • Developed Client-side code is integrated with REST and processed the JSON response.  • Worked with Hibernate framework to interact with the backend servers.  • Developed POJOs for the Spring Batch to process large volumes of records and Worked on Spring XD.  • Worked on CQL (Cassandra Query Language) using Cassandra Cluster Model.  • Used Oracle (PL/SQL) database and wrote HQL query to access the data from the database. Used Annotations in Hibernate mapping.  • Involved in ETL functions from a relational database to Cassandra.  • Applied Object Oriented Programming (OOP) concepts (including UML use cases, class diagrams, and interaction diagrams).  • Used Apache Camel to implement Java Message Service (JMS) API for sending and receiving email notifications to the employee about notifications to their portal.  • Interacted with UI team in developing GUI using HTML5, JavaScript, JSP, JSON.  • Setting up the JENKINS continuous build path for Continuous Integration.  • Worked with DevOps team in continuous integration.  • Worked with the JIRA tool for Quality Center bug tracking. Java Developer Arbella Insurance - Quincy, MA August 2014 to October 2016 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed Online Application using Spring MVC Framework and Spring Core.  • Developed and enhanced the application using Java and J2EE (Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JNDI, EJB), Web Services (RESTful Web Services), HTML, JSON, XML, Maven, Log4J and MySQL DB.  • Developed the code using Spring MVC dispatcher servlet to transfer on to different Controller classes (components).  • Wrote Rest-Controller with respect to RESTfulstandards in Spring MVC to connect model with view and tested Rest APIs in Spring Controller at the backend for JSON data using Postman.  • Involved in working with J2EE Design Patterns (Singleton, Session Façade, and DAO).  • Involved in Object Modelling Techniques with Manager and clients.  • Involved in creating Use Cases, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams using UML.  • Worked with DevOps team in deploying the project on AWS.  • Developed API for using AWS Lambda to manage the servers and run the code in AWS.  • Designed, configured and managed public/private cloud infrastructures using Amazon Web Services (AWS), which includes VPC, EC2, ElasticSearch, S3, Cloud Front, ELB and Elastic Beanstalk.  • Worked on Hibernate ORM. Created Hibernate XML files and Java class files to map the object relation mappings.  • Used Hibernate Query Language (HQL) and Custom Queries to query data from Oracle database in DAO.  • Used several Hibernate techniques such as lazy loading, batch fetching, and eager fetching to improve application performance.  • Used CRUD operations using JPA query language.  • Worked on messaging frameworks like Kafka, tuning optimization, meeting non-functional requirements and SLA mentioned latencies. Migrated messaging system from JMS to Kafka.  • Developed and maintained the Application Context files for the service layer using Spring Framework. •  • Used SOAP(WSDL 2.0) Web Services for secure extraction of client related data from database  • Used RESTful in conjunction with Ajax calls using JAX-RS and Jersey.  • Involved in Performance tuning of the application and documentation of troubleshooting.  • Developed JasperReports based on business requirements and Prototyped PDF JasperReportsusing jasper assistant.  • Involved in CI/CD using Jenkins and uDeploy and created and implemented JBosscentric architecture for entire environment and Created automated deployment scrips for JBossservers  • Created multi-homed JBoss instances (multiple clients on a single server to maximize hardware resources over a VM)  • Applied security practices and fixes to JBoss servers and Apache to be complaint with PCI regulations. Education Master's Skills Java, Spring, Java J2Ee, J2Ee, Hibernate