Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - MARLABS Inc Richmond, VA • Highly skilled Java Full Stack Developer with experience in SDLC of Requirement Gathering & Analysis,  Design, Implementation, Testing, Deployment, Maintenance; Expertise in the following various domains:  E-Commerce, Health Care and Advertising.  • Experienced in both Java Web-based and Desktop Based Development with Concepts of, Object  Oriented Design (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis (OOA), Object Oriented Programming (OOP)  and its implementations.  • Hands-on experience in Java SE application development with Core Java, JVM, JDK, Swing, and  knowledge of Data Structure and Algorithm, Multithreading, Serialization and Exception Handling.  • Excellent programming skills in J2EE 8 including JPA 2.2, JTA 1.2, EJB 3.2, JSTL 1.2, JSF 2.3; and  application servers like GlassFish 5, Tomcat 8; new enhancements like Servlet 4.0, Java Beans,  JSON, Date & Time API, Streams API.  • Professional in messaging service JMS 1.1 API, its derived general provider Apache ActiveMQ 5, and  distributed streaming broker Apache Kafka 2.1.1.  • Experienced in micro-services architecture using Spring, Spring Boot 2.1.x and Spring Cloud 2.x with  Netflix's Eureka service.  • Strong experience with developing and designing web application based on Spring 5 including Spring  MVC, Spring Security, Spring AOP, Spring REST with extensive practice in configuration, integration  and implementation.  • Specialized in persistence framework like Hibernate 5, JPA 2.2 for mapping Java POJO classes/Objects  with database and using Hibernate Query Language (HQL).  • Having good knowledge on Web Services such as WSDL, UDDI, SOAP, REST, XML.  • Strong experience in developing UI interfaces with core skills like HTML 5, CSS 3, JavaScript ES6,  Bootstrap 4, jQuery 3, and AJAX.  • Proficient in Single Page Application using Angular 8.0, TypeScript 3.5 and features like Two Way Data  Binding, Controllers, Filters, Routing.  • Extensive experience in database knowledge, such as Stored Procedures, Triggers, Views. For  relational database RDBMS like MySQL 8.0.x, SQL Server 12; for non-relational NoSQL database like  MongoDB 3, Neo4j 3.5.  • Knowledge and experience in MEAN Stack: MongoDB, Express.JS, Angular.JS and Node.JS.  • Experience in using various AWS components like EC2 for virtual servers, S3 and Glacier for storing  objects, EBS, IAM, CloudWatch, Elastic Load Balancing, VPC and DynamoDB.  • Hands on experience on deployment using Docker with Linux Ubuntu 18.04 provided by AWS EC2;  Good experience in CI/CD tools like Jenkins.  • Familiar with models in SDLC such as Agile and Waterfall, and iterative approach Scrum to implement  Agile.  • Experienced in the collaborative bug tracking tool JIRA and open source tool Bugzilla.  • Extensive experience on using distributed version control system Git, and also professional in  comprehensive building automation tools such as Maven, Gradle.  • Specialized in Unit Testing using JUnit 5 before writing any code to apply TDD approach. Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer Ad Council - Piscataway, NJ April 2019 to Present Description:    Cell# 732-331-4471     The Ad Council is an American nonprofit organization that produces, distributes, and promotes public service  announcements on behalf of various sponsors, which receive more than $1 billion in donated media annually and distributes advertisements to 33k media outlets including broadcast, print, outdoor (i.e. billboards, bus stops), and  Internet.  Marketing Campaign Management System is a software solution designed to handle various components of a marketing campaign, which provides a template that allows the sponsors to manage and execute campaign plan,  see and identify the key outcomes, visualize campaign schedule.    Responsibilities:  • Used Eureka in Spring Cloud Netflix as discovery server to allow Micro-Services named as Campaign  Catalog Service, Campaign Info Service and Team Objectives Service to register and locate using  Eureka client, and used together with Spring Boot 2.0.2 to provide convenient monitoring and configuration.  • Applied Spring MVC, Spring Core, Spring AOP for the application, together with Spring Security for user authentication, authorization and Spring Security OAuth2.0 to realize single sign-on.  • Implemented ORM framework Hibernate to integrate with DAO in order to avoid the redundancy and achieve Database Independence and Connection Pooling.  • Designed UI within Angular, which offers reusable components and Two-way data binding so that data  flow between front end and back end is much more efficient.  • Worked on TDD approach to ensure entity classes are designed correctly by developing test method  using JUnit 5 for validation and usability at first, then perform Red-Green-Refactor cycle to improve code  readability and maintainability.  • Deployed on AWS using Elastic Beanstalk, IAM, EC2 and Elastic Load Balancer for automating  scaling and easy management/updates.  • Advanced unit testing to CI/CD using Docker, created docker files and images for different micro- services, then used Jenkins to build and push the generated docker images to DockerHub for later  testing by QA team.    Environment:  Java 1.8, Spring 5.1, Spring Boot 2.1, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring Security, Spring Cloud Eureka  2.2.0, MySQL 8.0.x, Hibernate 5.4, HTML 5, CSS 3, Bootstrap 3.4.1, JavaScript ES6, RESTful Web Services, JSON, Angular 8, Typescript 3.5, TDD, JUnit 5, Maven, Git, Log4j 2.8.2, Docker, Jenkins, AWS EBS, AWS  IAM, AWS EC2, AWS ELB. Full Stack Web Developer GeekSale - Electronics E-commerce Website - Pittsburgh, PA August 2018 to March 2019 Project Description:  GeekSale is a powerful, easy to use online e-commerce website for selling Electronics products like smart  phones, laptops and tablets. Customers can easily browser products, register or log in their accounts, complete  ordering and payment. Administrator is able to log in the CRM system, providing modules like customer contact  info, appointment schedule, customer support.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like requirement gathering, Design and analysis of project development in Agile Methodology.  • Designed all website pages based on Jakob Nielsen's heuristics for user interface design, then  implemented Bootstrap 3 to achieve responsive design across different platforms.  • Integrated core Java concepts like Collections, Multithreading and Exception Handling to implement  different functionalities with Data Structures Algorithms.  • Enhanced user interfaces to enable the inputs of additional products information to generate order  confirmation using HTML 5, CSS 3, jQuery and Angular JS.  • Delivered functions of aggregation and subtraction and CRUD operations using MySQL for all transaction  data, migrated data access object pattern from JDBC to Hibernate for better performance and efficiency.  • Configured backend part with Spring Configuration with both Java Annotations based on XML and Java Code without XML, built a REST CRUD API connecting to database.  • Applied Spring Boot to improve efficiency by avoiding boilerplates code and ease application  development, unit test and integration with Spring Security.  • Used Spring AOP with AspectJ to achieve cross-cutting logics running before and after target method  call, and created an infrastructure logging view of the application.  • Developed micro-services using Restful service interface and used Spring Rest Controllers to serve  with JSON data.  • Created Controllers level Request Mapping, reading data from Views, then present backwards using  Spring MVC.  • Utilized Apache Kafka 2 as a replacement of tradition message broker to achieve user activity tracking, message streaming and processing.  • Created mock objects with Mockito 2, configured the return values of the objects, then verified certain  conditions and parameters are satisfied.  • Integrated AWS like EC2, RDS and S3 in order to achieve reliable restore, better affordable storage and easy to use configuration.    Environment:  Java 1.8, J2EE, Spring 5.0, Spring MVC, Spring AOP 5.0.0, JPA 2.0, MySQL 5.6, Hibernate 4.2, HTML 5, CSS 3, Bootstrap 4, jQuery 2.0, AJAX, JSON, AngularJS, Maven, Git, Agile, Postman, JSON, Jenkins, XML,  JUnit 4, Apache Kafka 2.0.0, Mockito 2.7.22, Intellij IDEA. Java Developer MyStory Editor Software - Pittsburgh, PA February 2017 to May 2018 Project Description:  MyStory Editor software is a versatile, handy and aesthetic tool for blog fans to create and customize their favorite  blog website. With our stunning templates and freedom design innovations, users are able to explore their  creativity to further extend. The software also provides responsive design across all platforms such as mobile, tablets and PC.  Responsibilities:  • Took part in early stage design which involves business logics, figured out possible entities in regular  blog system, decided to implement MVC design pattern.  • Developed J2EE Servlets as controllers for dispatching HTTP requests and direct the corresponding  responses in form of JSP as view.  • Created POJO for discussed entities, then encapsulated business logics and state within bean classes.  • Configured MySQL database on cloud using AWS RDS and implemented Triggers, Views and Stored  Procedures on database.  • Used JDBC to finish connecting with data layer, and implemented DAO interfaces, classes according to model entities.  • Migrated this J2EE application to Spring Boot Application, which simplified the configuration of app  dramatically using Java Annotations and resulted in very fast application bootstrap.  • Designed entity classes of post and user in community dashboard first, then built post service based on stub data for testing before connected to database, updated the home controller with the post service  stub implementation to show the latest 5 posts.  • For diverse platforms, developed overall layouts of log-in pages and blog list pages under Ionic  framework, tested in browser with ionic serve and deployed on iOS devices.  • Applied Bootstrap flex box grid system to create responsive web design when view size changes.  • Completed bug tracking unit testing with JUnit, and created Mock Objects for reducing dependency and complete isolation for unit testing.  • Compared two bug tracking tools JIRA and Bugzilla in terms of access control and workflow.    Environment:  Java 1.7, JSP, Servlet, AJAX, MySQL 3.0, JavaScript ES5, HTML 4, CSS3, jQuery, JUnit 3.8, Apache  Tomcat Server 7.0, Ionic 4.3.0, Bootstrap 3.0, Maven, XML, JDBC, Eclipse. Software Engineer Shanghai, CN June 2015 to June 2016 China    Description:  The TeleMed software is a very useful tool now be used to provide patients with clinical help in the comfort of their own homes. It provides features like online scheduling and HIPAA compliant video conferencing, which  gives our doctors telemedicine capabilities, reducing wait time in the clinic and improving patient experience for those whom it may not be so convenient to get to an urgent care center. For doctors, it's like having your practice at your fingertips on the web, iPhone, and iPad. Seamlessly integrate scheduling, clinical workflow, patient  engagement, and billing.  Responsibilities:  • Actively joined in Daily Scrum meetings, Sprint planning and estimation of the tasks for the user stories, participated in retrospective and presenting Demo at end of the sprint.  • Implemented RESTful single page application (SPA) with Angular 2.0, which integrated components like directives, controllers, view, routing, dived deep into Components and DataBinding.  • Within Angular application, used HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap3 and jQuery to develop and design pages of each component.  • Involved in developing Java APIs, which communicates with the Java Beans.  • Implemented persistence layer with ORM technology by Spring-Data-Mongo to persist with MongoDB  database and created complex native Criteria query to avoid some of the restrict.  • Used Eclipse as IDE tool to develop the application and Log4j for warning information and issue tracking.    Environment:  Java 1.7, REST & SOAP Web Services, HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript ES2015, Bootstrap 3, jQuery 2.0, Angular 2.0, MongoDB 3.0, Log4j 1.2, Agile. Java Application Developer Simple Warehouse - Shanghai, CN May 2014 to January 2015 China    Description:  Simple Warehouse is developed to simplify controlling of the real-time inventory in order to cut inventory costs  dramatically & increase profits. Moreover, our users can achieve full inventory visibility of all stocking locations  including your warehouse and service fleet. This Inventory Management System is essentially based on interacting with records in database.  Responsibilities:  • Started with model layer and designed necessary entities, create a JPA Entity to represent the business  logics.  • Developed in JSF to display the content sent by controller in form of query results.  • Implemented Plain old Java objects and JPA - Java Persistence API.  • Utilized CDI - Context Dependency Injection to bind different fields targeting query results.  • Developed CRUD operations, corresponding to the HTTP methods POST, GET, PUT, and DELETE so that functions of managing records are achieved in the inventory model.  • Used Maven to define datasource, persistent units, database type and beans.xml - CDI configuration file  and triggers scanning for CDI beans.  • Performed various test cases in JUnit for unit testing, implemented Mock Objects using Easy Mock for reducing dependency and complete isolation for unit testing.    Environment:  Java 1.5, J2EE, Servlets, JPA, JSP, JSF, XHTML, HTML 4, CSS 2, JavaScript, JUnit 2, EasyMock 2.0, Netbeans, Eclipse, XML, XSL, CDI, HTTP, Maven. Education Master's Skills Eclipse, Ejb, Java, Hibernate, Intellij idea, TECHNICAL SKILLS: Languages \ Web Technologies \ Java 8, JavaScript ES6, Python 3 \ Bootstrap 3/4, jQuery, AJAX, AngularJS \ TypeScript 3.5, SQL, HTML 5, CSS 3 \ JSON, XML, SOAP, REST \ Servers \ Java EE Technologies \ Apache Tomcat 9.0/8.5, GlassFish 4.1.1 \ Servlet 4.0, JDBC, JSP 2.3, JSTL 1.2, JSF 2.3 \ Apache ActiveMQ 5, Apache Kafka 2.1.1 \ EJB 3.2, JPA 2.2, JAXRS, JAXWS \ Cloud \ Databases \ AWS Services: EC2, S3, VPC, IAM, RDS \ PostgreSQL 9, MySQL 8.0.x, SQL Server 12.0 \ Cloud Watch, Lambda \ Neo4j 3.5, MongoDB 3 \ Testing \ IDE \ JUnit 4, TestNG 6, SoapUI 5 \ Eclipse, Netbeans, Visual Studio, Android Studio Postman, Mockito 2 \ WebStorm, IntelliJ IDEA, PyCharm Version Control & Deployment \ Development Approaches Git, Jenkins, Docker \ Agile (Scrum), Waterfall Frameworks \ Operating Systems Spring 5.x, Spring Boot 2.1, Spring Security 5.0.x\ MacOS, Ubuntu, Windows Angular 8, Ionic 4.3.0, Struts 2, Hibernate 4 (5 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages \ Web Technologies \  Java 8, JavaScript ES6, Python 3 \ Bootstrap 3/4, jQuery, AJAX, AngularJS \  TypeScript 3.5, SQL, HTML 5, CSS 3 \ JSON, XML, SOAP, REST \  Servers \ Java EE Technologies \  Apache Tomcat 9.0/8.5, GlassFish 4.1.1 \ Servlet 4.0, JDBC, JSP 2.3, JSTL 1.2, JSF 2.3 \  Apache ActiveMQ 5, Apache Kafka 2.1.1 \ EJB 3.2, JPA 2.2, JAXRS, JAXWS \  Cloud \ Databases \  AWS Services: EC2, S3, VPC, IAM, RDS \ PostgreSQL 9, MySQL 8.0.x, SQL Server 12.0 \  Cloud Watch, Lambda \ Neo4j 3.5, MongoDB 3 \  Testing \ IDE \  JUnit 4, TestNG 6, SoapUI 5 \ Eclipse, Netbeans, Visual Studio, Android Studio  Postman, Mockito 2 \ WebStorm, IntelliJ IDEA, PyCharm  Version Control & Deployment \ Development Approaches  Git, Jenkins, Docker \ Agile (Scrum), Waterfall  Frameworks \ Operating Systems  Spring 5.x, Spring Boot 2.1, Spring Security 5.0.x\ MacOS, Ubuntu, Windows  Angular 8, Ionic 4.3.0, Struts 2, Hibernate 4