Java Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Full Stack Developer - State of New Mexico Albuquerque, NM • Java Full Stack Developer with 3+ years of experience in designing, implementing and deploying commercial enterprise application for multi-tiered distributed products and distributed application using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Experience as a JAVA/J2EE developer in Finance domain using diverse technologies.  • Strong knowledge of Data Structure and OOPS Concepts.  • Extensive knowledge on Core Java Technologies including Collections.  • Knowledge on the development of WebServices using JAX-WS, Apache CXF.  • Strong and Conceptual knowledge about creational, structural and behavioral patterns such as Singleton, Factory, Abstract Factory, Builder, Adaptor Design.  • Good knowledge in various open source frameworks like Struts, spring and ORM Technology like Hibernate.  • Experience in Web Application development using HTML, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Strong experience in the complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Working knowledge of Agile Development Methodologies.  • Well acquainted with continuous integration and build tool Jenkins, Bamboo.  • Experience with multiple Servers like Apache Tomcat, Web Logic, GlassFish and JBoss.  • Worked with various Integrated Development Environments like Eclipse IDE, IntelliJ IDE, IBM Integration toolkit and NetBeans.  • Excellent problem solving and analytical skills with strong attention to detail and good at debugging complex and intermittent bugs.  • Excellent communication and interpersonal skills with the ability to interact with individuals at ease.  • Active in taking up new tasks/challenges.  • Truly passionate about my work and always enthusiastic to learn new technologies. Work Experience Java Full Stack Developer State of New Mexico - Albuquerque, NM May 2018 to Present The project is a multi-phase project to build an enterprise web application. Functional areas of the project are Early childhood Services, Juvenile Justice and Child Welfare and other related areas. Epics is a flexible, integrated architecture utilizing services-oriented architecture (SOA).    Responsibilities:  • Developed the application in AGILE/SCRUM fashion and collaborate with Business Analysts, Product owners, Scrum master and stakeholders in the software development process.  • Designed and developed for the Presentation layer using JSP/Servlets and Spring MVC Framework.  • Involved in writing business logic using spring framework.  • Extensively involved in design and implementation of Webpages by using HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript.  • Used JavaScript for client-side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Developed Front-End code with Ajax call in Angular and JQuery to retrieve the data as the JSON object.  • Implemented Spring MVC framework to provide the controller framework.  • Implemented Restful web services to retrieve data from client side and made Rest API calls from Angular.  • Used JAX-RS servlets to implement the restful web services.  • Designed and implemented Restful web services using Spring Boot for the application to integrate with supporting subsystem.  • Handled response data from RESTFUL web services using JSON and JQuery to update UI Interacted with java controllers (JQuery, Ajax, and JSON to write/read data from back end systems).  • Created GET/PUT request and response using RESTFUL web services.  • Executed various testing scenarios like contract, functional, performance and integration tests as part of Micro Service architecture.  • Built Spring Boot based java Micro services to support enterprise web application.  • Built a Rest API using spring Boot were consume by ORMB to setup the rates.  • Involved in consuming, producing Restful web services using JAX-RS.  • Used Mongo DB as data storage and utilized aspects like replica sets, clever document design to make services extensibility scale and future wise.  • Wrote PL/SQL Stored procedures, Functions, Triggers and Complex SQL's  • Worked on database interaction layer for insertions, updating and retrieval operations on data.  • Implemented the persistence layer using Hibernate and configured Hibernate with spring to interact with the Database from the DAO.  • Create RFP (Request for Proposal) Micro Services to provide Restful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC  • Developed the back-end part with Hibernate i.e., ORM tool and Used Hibernate for database and to manage Transactions.  • Involved in writing MAVEN script for creating destination folders, compiling, creating jar, war and ear files and copying the files to deployment folder.  • Wrote JUnit test cases for unit testing, integration testing, and automated functional tests, run automatically by Jenkins in the builds triggered by each push to Git.  • Used JIRA for tracking the project Stories in Agile Methodology.  • Used Swagger to interact with API end points of the Restful services  • Worked on AWS cloud services like EC2, S3, and EBS for installing, configuring and auto scaling  • Extensively used My Eclipse IDE configured and deployed the application into Apache Tomcat.    Environment: Java 1.8, spring 3.1, Git, Hibernate 4.2, JavaScript, Design Patterns, JUnit, Oracle SQL, Mongo DB, Spring Boot, Web Services-Rest, Maven, Swagger, AWS, Eclipse 4.3, Web Logic 11g, Agile, Apache Tomcat 8, Jenkin. Java Full Stack Developer Ascension - St. Louis, MO March 2016 to April 2018 This Project is to develop a web application that handles the operations of hospital easily. This application was developed to provide better service to the customers and helpful to the hospitals maintaining individual patient's life time medical record, doctor details, investigation. The records can be accessed anytime, anywhere, instantly, with recently updated information of all the patients particularly ICU patients.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) phases of the project using Agilemethodology.  • Used various Core Java concepts such as multi-threading, exception handling, collection APIs to implement various features and enhancements.  • Extensively worked on business, front end and persistence tier using the JSP, Servlets, Spring MVC, and JSON.  • Used design patterns like Front controller, DTO, Singleton, Facade, Factory design patterns.  • Developed Hibernate framework for back end development and Spring Dependency Injection for middle layer development.  • Involved in design, development, and implementation of front end part of the web application usingHTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, Angular and Bootstrap.  • Utilized Angular dependency injection to inject different Services including inner Services and custom services and create some custom directives to do some reusable component.  • Maintained Cross Browser compatibility & implement Responsive Web Design using Twitter Bootstrap and custom media queries.  • Developed CSS styles to maintain the uniformity of all the screens throughout the application and positioning of screen objects.  • Made AJAX calls using Backbone.js to get data & parsing it for showing on webpage.  • Successfully handled JSON/XML data and carried out JSON/XML parsing for form submissions andDOM manipulation.  • Created REST web services & consumed it using Angular to communicate between apps.  • Performed form validations using reactive forms for sign in and inputting ticket rising information from Angular framework.  • Created tables and worked on SQL and PL/SQL to write Stored Procedures functions and packages for complex Inserts and updates in the database.  • Worked on development of Hibernate, including mapping files, configuration file and classes to interact with the database.  • Worked with Hibernate Query Language (HQL) to store and retrieve data from MongoDB.  • Deployed allocations in the JBOSS application servers and written automation scripts on UNIX boxes.  • Installation and maintenance of GIT for users to check out project and maintain various versions of the project implemented Log4J for Logging Errors, debugging and tracking.  • Generated JUnit framework for unit testing of application and implemented Test Driven Development (TDD) methodology.    Environment: Java, Java Beans, J2EE, Spring, Spring Boot, Hibernate, Web Logic, Hibernate, RESTful Web Service, HTML5, CSS3, Ajax, Angular, jQuery, JavaScript, JSP, Servlets, SQL, JSON, JBOSS, XSD, Agile, MongoDB, JMS, JUnit, Log4J, Unix, Git, Maven, FileZilla, Sun Solaris (Unix), MyEclipse. Education Bachelors of Science Texas Woman's University 2018 Skills Ajax (3 years), Git. (3 years), Java (3 years), Javascript. (3 years), jquery (3 years)