Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Farmers Insurance Cleveland, OH • Around 7 years of experience as a Java/J2EE Developer in analysis, design, implementation, integration, testing and maintenance of applications using Java/J2EE and Object-Oriented Client-Server technologies.  • Experience in software methodologies such as Waterfall and Agile Methodologies.  • Expertise in Core Java concepts like OOPS, Data structures & algorithms, Collections, Swing, Event handling, Multithreading, Garbage Collector, Exceptional handling, Generics, I/O and Java. Lang Package.  • Expert in developing applications using all J2EE technologies like Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JNDI, JMS.  • Experience in Front-End UI technologies like HTML, XHTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, Java Script, AJAX, JSON, XML, PHP, Angular JS, Angular JS 2.0, React.JS, Node.JS, Boot Strap, AJAX and JQuery.  • Worked on design of the applications represented with UML diagrams like use cases, sequence flows & class diagrams using VISIO.  • Used microservice architecture with SpringBoot interacting combination of REST and apache Kafka and Clara message brokers.  • Experience in Service Oriented Architecture and Web Services using SOAP and REST.  • Strong knowledge in spring framework (Core, Spring DAO, Spring AOP, Spring ORM) server-side component architecture for simplified development of distributed, transactional, secure and portable application based on Java Technology.  • Deployed containers and Microservices in AWS using EC2 Container Services. Designed, configured and deployed Amazon Web Services (AWS) for a multitude of applications utilizing the Amazon cloud formation.  • Experience in integrating Microservices Architecture with Spring Boot and Docker.  • Experience in working with large scale Hadoop environments build and support including Design, configuration, installation, performance tuning and monitoring  • Excellent programming skills at high level abstraction using Java, Scala, Python & SQL.  • Knowledge on Cassandra read and write paths, query and internal architecture.  • Experienced in developing event driven applications using Ajax, and XML.  • Experience in creating Docker images, Containers, push/pull and integrating with SpringBoot for running applications.  • Knowledge in performance tuning and maintenance of Cassandra Database.  • Proficient in using XML Suite of Technologies like XML, XSL, DTD, XML Schema and DOM Parsers.  • Familiar with Unix/Linux environment.  • Experience in migrating data from multiple relational databases to Cassandra and validated data.  • Extensive Knowledge on build automation tools such as apache ANT, Maven, Jenkins and good understanding of Test-Driven development (TDD).  • Experience with Streaming platforms like Apache Kafka.  • Professional experience in relational database management (RDBMS) MySQL, Oracle, SQL server and DB2Experience in data access technologies like JDBC, JPA, Hibernate, SQL, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures and Triggers besides writing transaction queries, DDL and DML with development tools like TOAD.  • Good knowledge in using Spring Web MVC framework for applying MVC implementation in the web application.  • Experience in Designing, Developing, and Deploying Web Services using Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP), Representational State Transfer (REST/ Restful), WSDL and UDDI.  • Excellent knowledge and experience in writing SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers and views using various databases such as MS SQL Server, NoSQL database systems (Mongo DB), My SQL, Cassandra and Oracle databases.  • Experienced in languages like JAVA, C and C++ and also worked on latest versions of Angular Bootstrap.  • Designed MicroServices specification including - End Point Registration, Request, Response, HTTP Codes, Error Codes etc.  • Used Log4j for logging and debugging and used JUnit extensively for testing.  • Expertise in using Version control systems i.e. SVN, Git.  • Actively involved in the DevOps streamlining process through Jenkins CI and CD Release Automation.  • Well experienced in using networking tools like PuTTY, MobaXterm and WinSCP.  • Had experience in creating front end-systems using MVC frameworks such as Angular JS and External JavaScript(Ext Js). Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Farmers Insurance - Cleveland, OH November 2017 to Present • Involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including analysis, design, development, and testing of the project.  • Used SpringBoot to create stand-alone spring applications.  • Used Eclipse Integrated Development Environment for coding, debugging and testing the application modules.  • Involved in developing of presentation layer for the application modules using AngularJS/2, XHTML, HTML5, jQuery, AJAX and CSS.  • Designed and developed Microservices business components using SpringBoot.  • Knowledge in creation of Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 2.  • Implemented SpringBoot services in combination with Angular as front end to form a Microservice Oriented application  • Implemented React.js Controllers to maintain each view data.  • AngularJS was used to parse the JSON file using the REST Web services.  • Used JAVA, Ruby, C and C++ as scripting languages with database platform like MYSQL, SQL and MongoDB.  • Worked on Latest Versions of Angular Bootstrap kind of web technologies for efficient Web Development.  • Configured Spring based Microservices and Spring Boot  • Analyze and fix issues related to REST Web services and Application responses.  • Worked on React.js Virtual Dom and React.js views, rendering using components which contains additional components called custom HTML tags.  • Implemented the back-end services using SpringBoot.  • Experience in working with NoSQL, Mongo DB, and Apache Cassandra.  • Implemented Spring Security and Spring transactions in the applications.  • Worked on Swagger, REST with JSON to test data, and Postman for testing the Web Services and Documentation of the Web API.  • Experienced on spring framework applications like Spring Core, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring Batch, Spring Security and SpringBoot and did integration to Micro services into existing system architecture.  • Involved in the configuration of Spring Framework and Hibernate mapping tool.  • Configured MQ Queues and Topics to publish messages to topics and consume published messages.  • Worked with Docker to deploy Micro-services in modern containers to increase Isolation.  • Experience with Spring Ribbon and Kafka broker service to handle heavy traffic.  • Worked on DAO's to pull the data from the source Databases and converted into JSON formats and then published into Kafka Streams.  • Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins and GitHub and AWS AMI's.  • Extensively followed Test Driven Development to implement application business logic, work flow process and integration of application modules.  • Followed Pair Programming to analysis, design, development, Integration, Testing and deploy the applications.  • Used XML, XSD, XPath and JAXB for message transformations and mappings. Java Developer JAX-RS - Tampa, FL November 2016 to November 2017 • Followed Scrum Agile methodology for development of the application.  • Involved in analyzing the requirements and participated in discussions with business analysts.  • Involved in developing Hibernate DAO classes, mapping files for persistence layer.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries and Struts Tag Libraries to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Developed the middle tier using EJBs Stateless Session Bean, Java Servlets.  • Developed various helper classes needed following core Java multi-threaded programming and Collection classes.  • Implement API Service using Apache Camel.  • Developed cloud native microservices using Spring cloud and Spring Boot.  • Design and develop new database using as relational database management system PostgreSQL.  • Added user validations and user permissions by using the Node.js.  • Involved in writing HQL and SQL Queries for Oracle database.  • Utilized custom logging framework for Mule ESB application.  • Created and compiled XML Schema to generate Java Bean classes.  • Patching the Linux servers on all the environments (Prod, Pre-Prod and Testing) of Customer.  • Written the integration test to execute full systems using the Groovy.  • Prepared automation scripts and developed PostgreSQL database architecture.  • Used Selenium WebDriver to provide more flexibility in automating test cases.  • Created REST Web Services for the management of data using JAX-RS.  • Used Tomcat Application server for live services.  • Configure JIRA to set up a trusted communication between JIRA and Confluence  • Used Log4j to set up debugging and error information for production support.  • Used Junit for unit testing and Jenkins for automated build and deploy process.  • Involved in bug fixing during the System testing, Joint System testing and User acceptance testing. Java Developer Torana Inc - Stamford, CT December 2013 to November 2014 • Involved in SDLC Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development, Testing production of application using Waterfall model.  • Worked as Java/Hadoop Developer where the responsibility was to develop end to end API's and perform Hadoop Integration testing.  • Good Understanding of the Hadoop Distributed File System and Eco System (MapReduce, Pig, Hive, Sqoop).  • Involved in using HBase Java API on Java application.  • Implemented Hbase API's and deployed it on Silver and Gold environments.  • Implemented Slash CLI use case to get info for tables using gRPC, ProtoBuffer and Java.  • Analyzed the data by performing Hive queries (HiveQL) and running Pig scripts (Pig Latin) to study customer behavior.  • Involved in managing and reviewing Hadoop log files.  • Performed cluster coordination services through Zookeeper.  • Developed web applications with HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap and Angular JS.  • Used JQuery for basic animation and end user screen customization purposes. Also used CSS pre- processors (SASS)  • Involved in the development of presentation layer and GUI framework using Angular JS and HTML.  • Involved in rendering additional components with custom HTML tags using React.js  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX and Angular resources.  • Developed code for Responsive web design in JavaScript using frameworks like Angular.js, React.js  • Used the Collections API, Generics, multi-threading while developing code.  • Method references are used provided in Java8 to make use of methods already named  • Database development required creation of new tables PL/SQL stored procedures, functions, views, indexes and constraints, triggers and required SQL tuning to reduce the response time in the application.  • Experience in developing LINUX shell scripts for automating deployment of applications  • Developed Spring middleware components for implementing business logic and Implemented SOA based architecture using web services to build a loosely coupled system.  • Deployed the java application using Maven build script.  • Used Log4j for logging various levels of information like error, info, and debug into the log files.  • Used Java/J2EE Design patterns such as Singleton, Service Locater, DAO etc. and Spring IOC pattern and responses.  • Performed GitHub/GitHub-Desktop bash and Terminal commands to clone, fetch, merge and push the code and created pull requests for changes that are made. Java Developer Health Net - Oregon City, OR November 2012 to December 2013 • Followed Scrum Agile methodology for development of the application.  • Involved in analyzing the requirements and participated in discussions with business analysts.  • Involved in developing Hibernate DAO classes, mapping files for persistence layer.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries and Struts Tag Libraries to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Developed the middle tier using EJBs Stateless Session Bean, Java Servlets.  • Developed various helper classes needed following core Java multi-threaded programming and Collection classes.  • Implement API Service using Apache Camel.  • Developed cloud native microservices using Spring cloud and Spring Boot.  • Design and develop new database using as relational database management system PostgreSQL.  • Added user validations and user permissions by using the Node.js.  • Involved in writing HQL and SQL Queries for Oracle database.  • Utilized custom logging framework for Mule ESB application.  • Created and compiled XML Schema to generate Java Bean classes.  • Patching the Linux servers on all the environments (Prod, Pre-Prod and Testing) of Customer.  • Written the integration test to execute full systems using the Groovy.  • Prepared automation scripts and developed PostgreSQL database architecture.  • Used Selenium WebDriver to provide more flexibility in automating test cases.  • Created REST Web Services for the management of data using JAX-RS.  • Used Tomcat Application server for live services.  • Configure JIRA to set up a trusted communication between JIRA and Confluence.  • Used Log4j to set up debugging and error information for production support.  • Used Junit for unit testing and Jenkins for automated build and deploy process.  • Involved in bug fixing during the System testing, Joint System testing and User acceptance testing. Education Master's