Python Developer Python <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Service now • Around 6 years of experience in developing and designing Web Based, Multi-tier distributed applications using latest analytical programming Python, Django, Flash, JAVA, J2EE and spring technologies.  • Good involvement in creating web applications in Object Oriented Programming and also executing Model View Control design utilizing Django Framework.  • Experienced in Python's modules Numpy, matPlotLib, Pickle, PySide, Scipy, wxPython, PyTables etc. for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  • Knowledge of deployment tools using Heroku, Jenkins, pylint, cpp Check and Coverity.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP SerializableJSON strings.  • Experience in using Design Patterns such as MVC, Singleton and frameworks such as Django, WSGI.  • Experience in developing Web Services (SOAP, Restful) in Python using XML, JSON.  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  • Proficient in using editor's like Eclipse, sublime text, Netbeans, Pycharm, Pyscripter, spyder, PyStudio and PyDev.  • Used Django evolution and manual SQL modifications to retain all the data, while site is in production.  • Experience in LinuxBash Scripting and PEP guidelines in python.  • Used Python Unit test framework for developing and implementing the unit tests using Test driven approach.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Hands on experience with databases using ORMs/DOMs for integrating with Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL.  • Providing support for Linux servers and workstation in Department of Physics.  • Experience in working with GUI frameworks with packages like PyJamas, Jytho, guidata, PyGUI, PyQt.  • Good knowledge in working with Web/application server- Apache Tomcat (6.0, 7.0, 8.0), Tornado, Cherrypy, Chaussette, Rocket  • Experience in infrastructure as service (IaaS), Platform as service (PaaS), Software as a service (SaaS) & end user computing.  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Cassandra and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL, Dynamo DB and MySQL databases.  • Experienced in Application Development using Python, RDBMS and Linux shell scripting and performance tuning  • Performed code reviews and implemented best Pythonic programming practices Experience in project deployment using Google Cloud/Jenkins, ElasticSearch and using web Services like Amazon Web Services (AWS). Work Experience Python Developer Service now - San Jose, CA March 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and jQuery.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and template language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Involved in implementing the complete Application in the in-build Spring MVC Architecture with Angular JS.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Rewrote existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Wrote and executed various RDBMS, MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Implemented Apache Spark data processing project to handle data from RDBMS and streaming sources.  • Implemented web applications in Flask frame works following MVC architecture.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.    Environment: Python 2.7 & 3.5, Django 1.6.1, Selenium, HTML-5, CSS-3, XML, MySQL, JIRA, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, jQuery, RDBMS, CSS Bootstrap, ElasticSearch, Mongo DB-3.2, MS SQL Server-2014, T- SQL, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Amazon Lambda, Linux, Shell Scripting Python Developer Mayo Clinic - Rochester, MN July 2017 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using GIT, Gerrit, Jenkins, MYSQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  • Developed Views and Templates with Python and using Django's view controller and template language, Website interface is created.  • Implemented Business logic, worked on data exchange, processed XML and HTML using Python 2.7 and its familiar framework Django.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  • Involved in converting Hive/SQL queries into Spark transformations using Spark RDDs, Python.  • Developed Django dashboard with custom look by using the study of Django admin site and dashboard.  • Automated data movements using Python scripts.  • Created and populated digital brochures using PageTurnPro and built photo galleries on website in the Django CMS and also using Django CMS plugin.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Developed code in Java which creates mapping in ElasticSearch even before data is indexed into.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, Django-CMS, SSO, Django-CMS plugins, MySQL, Linux, Shell Scripting, Pandas API, Selenium, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap, JSON. Python Developer Bloomberg LP - New York, NY February 2017 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website.  • Involved in preparing the mockups using HTML, DHTML, XHTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python 2.7 on Django Web Framework.  • Developed a MATLAB algorithm which determines an object's dimensions from digital images.  • Built the "Optiv Managed Security Services" service delivery portal from ground up using Angular, Node JS, NGINX.  • Optimized web server performance including Apache, Nginx, MySQL and Memcache.  • Used Virtualenv for creating virtual environment and deployed the project in Nginx web server.  • Built a scalable distributed data solution using Hadoop.  • Involved in installation and configuration of the various Hadoop ecosystem tools such as Sqoop, Flume, Pig and Hbase.  • Developed reporting application using Node.js, JavaScript, JQuery and PostgreSQL.  • Created a private VPN using Ubuntu, Python, Django, CherryPy, Postgre SQL, Bootstrap, JQuery, GIT, Selenium.  • Deployed and configured portlets in Websphere server and DB2.  • Developed the Web Based Rich Internet Application (RIA) using Adobe Flex.  • Involved in basic CRUD operations and also in the deployment of Web Service End-Points using Apache CXF.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JQuery, JavaScript, MATLAB, Apache, Nginx, PostgreSQL, Memcache, Ubuntu, CherryPy, GIT, Selenium, Adobe Flex. Java Application Developer/ programmer Analyst Asurion - Sterling, VA March 2016 to January 2017 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for design, coding component and assembly testing of all application code owned by the Application Team.  • Designed and developed the search application for the online shopping - a web based search application that searches over thousands of products.  • Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing Spring Inversion of Control (IOC) architecture and Hibernate.  • Designed and developed the RESTful API using Spring MVC and Hibernate.  • Designed and developed the UI for the "Accounts in a Jiffy" application.  • Developed various helper classes needed following Core Java multi-threaded programming and Collection classes.  • Implemented REST service application with Spring Data and Spring JDBC Template in backend. Designed, developed and enhanced existing databases, emphasizing processing efficiencies and quality assurance.  • Experience in Writing SQLqueries for data validation at the row and table level, Multiple-Column Sub queries, Scalar Sub queries and correlated Sub queries.  • Test plans to identify and resolve application issues.  • Covered the application with unit tests using Junit.  • Involved in testing, debugging, performance tuning, bugs fixing and documentation of the system.  Environment: Java 1.7, RAD 7.0, JSP, AngularJS, Spring, Solr, SolrJ, REST, SOAP, Oracle, MySQL, JSON, Maven, Python, Web Sphere Application Server 7.0, Tortoise SVN, JIRA, Agile Methodology, Junit. Java Programmer RWaltz Software Services Group Inc - Hyderabad, Telangana November 2014 to February 2016 Responsibilities:  • Objective of the project is to maintain Password security system and to maintain the project safe and secure. To protect the password safe and secure and in the authentication system by creating many security questions in the system, and maintain the password secure using Java application.  • We focus only on "what you know type" authentication. We propose our Inferred Password Authentication System. IPAS is similar to the pass point scheme with some finer differences.  • In IPAS, We consider the password as a piece of information known to the server at the time of registration and at the time of authentication, the user give this information in an inferred form that can be understood only by the server.  • The main aim of the project is to maintain the security of the password, the security questions will be asked to maintain the password security.  • It keeps the system safe and protects the password by hacking by others and keeps the data protected from the system.  • Tools & Languages Used: Html, Server side Programs is JSP, Scripting language is Java Script, Data Base is MY SQL, Server is Tomcat5.5/6.0. Education Master's Skills C++, DESIGN PATTERNS, Git, JAVASCRIPT, JENKINS Additional Information Technical Skills:  Programming Languages & Scripts C, C++, Python, Core Java, shell, JavaScript  Operating Systems Sun Solaris, IBM AIX, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, Ubuntu  Version Control GIT/ GitHub, SVN, CVS  Protocols TCP/IP, UDP, CAN, SNMP, KWP2000, LIN, RS 232, GMLAN, KWP  Databases Oracle, Microsoft SQL Server, IBM DB2, SQLite and MongoDB  Libraries & Frameworks  STL, BDE, IPC, multithreading, sockets, heap allocators, signals/event handling, SOAP web services, Software Design OOP/OOD, Design Patterns, Google Test, Google Mock, Quick FIX    Build Bit bake, Yocto, Jenkins, cppCheck, Coverity  Tools emacs, eclipse, UML tools, MS-Office, Splunk, JIRA, OpenGrok  Simulation Tools Verifix, Lab view, Cadence, Pspice, Hspice, Synopsys, Xilinx, dSPACE HIL