Java Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Full Stack Developer - Dignity health Phoenix, AZ • Over 5 years of strong software experience in design, development and deployment of web-based and Client-Server business applications using OOP, Java/J2EE technologies.  • Expert in Various Agile methodologies like SCRUM, Test Driven Development (TTD), Incremental and Iteration methodology, Agile Development &Testing using Software Development Life Cycle.  • Expertise in developing SOA (Service Oriented Architecture), REST and J2EE ++ based on SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, JAX-WS, JAXB, JAX-RPC using tools like Apache Axis.  • Extensive experience in designing professional UI web applications using front-end technologies like AngularJS, Node.js, Angular 2/4, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery AJAX, JSON and Bootstrap.  • Experience in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA), Web Services Integrations, BPM, BPEL and ESB using WebSphere Process Server, ESB, Web Sphere Integration Developer, Data Power and WSRR.  • Transaction implementation (CMP, BMP, Message-Driven Beans), JMS, Struts, Spring, Swing, Hibernate, Java Beans, JDBC, XML, Web Services, JNDI, Multithreading etc.  • Strong experience in Spring Framework modules such as Spring MVC, IOC, AOP, JDBC, JTA, IO, Spring Dashboard, Spring Boot, Spring Microservices, Spring REST, Spring Eureka, Spring Ribbon, Spring Netflix, Spring Zuul Proxy.  • Proficient in applying design patterns like MVC, Singleton, Session Facade, Service Locator, Visitor, Observer, Decorator, Front Controller, Data Access Object.  • Proficient in frameworks like Struts, Spring, JSF, AJAX frameworks and ORM frameworks like Hibernate.  • Experience with Front end frame works with its components such as AngularJS, jQuery, NodeJS, BackboneJS, ReactJS.  • Used Node.Js and JQuery for Dom manipulation.  • Excellent understanding / knowledge of Hadoop architecture and various components such as HDFS, Job Tracker, Task Tracker, Name Node, Data Node and MapReduce programming paradigm.  • Expertise in XML technologies such as XSL, XSLT, XML schemas, XPath, XForms, XSL-FO and parsers like SAX, DOM.  • Strong experience with MongoDB development (reports, schema design, map reduce functions) and migrations from SQL relational databases to NoSQL databases like MongoDB, Cassandra and CouchDB.  • Experience in database modeling, design and development of PL/SQLQueries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Functions and Packages in relational databases: Oracle 11g, SQL Server 2005/2008, DB2 and MySQL.  • Experienced with Hibernate/JPA Entities for mapping HQL, HSQL Named Queries, Criteria, Projections.  • Developed applications using latest technologies like Spring 3.x/4.x, Hibernate3.2/4.x, REST based Web services (Axis2.0, JAX WS 2.0, JAX RS), Rule Engines (Drools4.1, ILOG), jBPM tools.  • Good experience in Cloudera, Hortonworks &Apache Hadoop distributions.  • Worked in Building application platforms in the Cloud by Amazon Web Services.  • Experience in using ORM tools like Hibernate, iBATIS, Mybatis for XML mappings and Java Objects.  • Experience in software configuration management using CVS, SVN, GitHub and IBM ClearCase.  • Experience with CICD-Ant, Maven, Gradle, Jenkins, Hudson, CVS, Git, GitHub.  • Experience in working with web servers like Tomcat 8, IBM WebSphere8.0, Jetty, JBoss 7.1.0 and WebLogic 10.0.  • Experienced in Middleware persistence frameworks like Hibernate/JPA Entities for mapping Java classes using Hibernate Query Language (HQL), HSQL Named Queries, Criteria, Projections.  • Hands on experience with build tools like Ant, Maven, Gradle and Logging tools like Log4J and Splunk.  • Experience in testing with JUnit Framework using Mockito and Easy Mock, Spring Junit Runner, JMeter.  • Expertise in several testing environments like JUnit, Selenium, CURL, Jenkins, SoapUI and System Testing.  • Responsible for support and maintenance, implemented Spring Batch for huge number of transactions.  • Experience in creating Docker images, Containers, push/pull and integrating with Spring Boot.  • Expertise with employment of Spring Kafka and Zookeeper apart from JMS as messaging service.  • Proficient in using Amazon Web Services (AWS). Extensive experience focusing on services like EC2, Elastic Beanstalk, CloudWatch, CloudFront, Cloud Formation, IAM, S3, RDS, ElastiCache, SNS, SQS, AMI. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Full Stack Developer Dignity health - Phoenix, AZ July 2018 to Present Responsibilities  • Worked in an Agile Environment and participated in requirement gathering, analysis and design.  • Developed user interface using HTML5, Angular 4, jQuery and performed client-side validations using Java Script, AJAX, JSTL and CSS for making the Web Pages dynamic.  • Used Bootstrap and media queries to create a Responsive Webpage across different screen-sizes.  • Developed a Single Page Application which can switch to different components using Angular 4services to get data.  • Used Ajax for sending and retrieving data from server by giving URL to get JSON data for models and to populate models from the server, Used AngularJS to create views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data with server as a SPA.  • Used AngularJS to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.  • Involved in the development of project back-end layer using by most of core java features such as Collection frameworks, Interfaces, Multi-threading, and Exceptions.  • Implemented Router Module of Angular 5 to make the whole project a Single Page Application and add routers,  • Involved in writing Thread Safe blocks for multithread access to make valid transactions.  • Implemented various features of spring framework such as Dependency Injection, IOC, Annotations and Spring integration with Hibernate.  • Integrated application with Spring Security for form-based authentication and authorization by using spring security  • Implemented Reactive Form of Angular 5 to deal with form validation issues.  • Stored authentication and authorization detail in database, used these DB authorization detail with spring security annotation on method for apply method level spring security.  • Implementing or exposing the Micro services to base on RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • This functionality is implemented by developing RESTFUL web services using Spring boot, Spring RESTFUL template.  • Led the requirements analysis and software delivery of Enrollment Module for State-based Health Insurance Exchanges (HIX).  • Created and Consumed Web Services using Restful & SOAP web services.  • Extracted files from RDBMS through Sqoop, placed in HDFS and processed for downstream applications like Tableau etc.  • Developed scripts to perform business transformations on the data using Hive and Impala for downstream applications.  • Designed Data Synchronization layer for managing real time data transmission between different legacy systems including Integrated Eligibility System and HIX.  • Implemented Partitioning, Dynamic Partitions, Buckets in HIVE.  • Working extensively on Hive, SQL, Scala, Spark, and Shell.  • Experience in working with Spring Quartz framework and developed various quartz jobs.  • Worked on Microservice architecture with Spring Boot based services interacting through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka, Zookeeper to establish communication between the Microservices in the application environment.  • Implemented Microservices architecture with Netflix, Spring Eureka, Spring Ribbon using Spring Boot to provide client-side load balancing in calls to another Microservices for making application in to smaller chunks and the Spring Hystrix as circuit breaker and for the fail-safe  • Deployed Docker contained Spring boot micro services in to AWS EC2 container service using AWS admin console and used lambda to run applications in AWS console.  • Deep Experience in Enrollment, Eligibility, medicated rules, Human and Health Services, HIX, ACA and IES systems.  • Implemented Swagger for the Rest API. I have good experience in Docker to deploy applications quickly, setup CICD pipeline and I have used Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle and monitored on Git.  • Experience with building Docker Images and running them on Docker container.  • Configured and Maintained AWS ECS Repository for Deploying Docker Image by Creating a task definition, scheduling tasks and configuring clusters in the AWS ECS Console, Experience In setting up of AWS RDS and Dynamo DB instances  • Developed code with Java SDK to connect with AWS Services. Worked with S3 for storing and retrieving data stored in the S3 bucket's, AWS SQS for bulk email processing, Data backup and archiving on AWS using S3 and Glacier and Dynamo DB to store the data for metrics and backend reports.  • Used AWS SDK for connection to AmazonS3 buckets as it is used as the object storage service to store and retrieve the media files related to the application.  • Responsible for design and development of Spark Applications using Scala to interact with hive and MySQL databases.  • Implemented Continuous Integration of automation framework using tool Jenkins  • Used Log4j for logging and debugging and used JUnit extensively for testing.  • Database development required in creation of new tables, PL/SQL stored procedures, functions, views, indexes and constraints, triggers and required SQL tuning to reduce the response time in the application.  • Used Mockito Framework for JUnit.  • Implemented Continuous Integration of automation framework using tools like Jenkins.  • Integration of automation batch run job with Jenkins. Worked with Jenkins Continuous Integration(CI) tool.  • Deployed the application on Tomcat 8.0 application server.  Environment: Java 8, Spring 3.5, Hibernate 4.2, Spring batch, Spring quartz, Spring security, Spring Jta, Spring Boot, JPA, Java Scripts, AngularJS 4.0, HTML5, CSS, JMS, AWS (S3, VPC, EBS, ELB, Auto Scaling, Cloud Watch, Cloud Trail, IAM, SNS, SQS, RDS, DynamoDB), Tomcat Application Server 8.0, Eclipse, SOAP, Restful, Maven, log4j, JUnit, XML, Splunk, SVN Java Full Stack Developer Cigna Health care - Denver, CO May 2017 to June 2018 Responsibilities  • Involved in all phases of the Software development life cycle (SDLC) using Agile Methodology.  • Developed business components using core java8 concepts and classes like Inheritance, Polymorphism, Collections, Serialization and Multithreading etc.  • Documentation functional specifications using Use case diagrams, Object diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using UML.  • Implemented and developed UI components using Angular JS features like dependency Injection, Models, data binding and controllers.  • Developed test cases for Angular JS using karma and grunt  • UI design and development using JSF, richfaces and myfaces.  • Extensively used Java server Faces (JSF) Navigation rules and JSF tags for enhanced user Interface.  • Developed Interactive web pages using AngularJS, ReactJs, HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Develop various screens for the front end using React JS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and React Redux library  • Responsible for the technical direction and implementation of the Spring Batch framework according to new design with spring security.  • Responsible to support the operations, monitoring & reporting according to the requirement of higher management team by making Splunk Dashboards.  • Implemented the MVC architecture using Backbone.js, Node.js and Angular.js, React.js.  • Integrated application with Spring Security for form based authentication and authorization by used spring security jsp tags to provide UI level spring security.  • Stored authentication and authorization detail in database, used these DB authorization detail with spring security annotation on method for apply method level spring security.  • Used Node JS for heavy DOM manipulation.  • Implementing security Single Sign-On application to share user management, authentication and authorization among multiple applications.  • Imported and Exported Data from Different Relational Data Sources like DB2, SQL Server, Teradata to HDFS using Sqoop.  • Ingesting the data from legacy and upstream systems to HDFS using apache Sqoop, Flume, Hive queries.  • Handled importing of data from various data sources, performed transformations using spark, loaded data into Hive.  • Used storage format like AVRO to access multiple columnar data quickly in complex queries.  • Used Spark-SQL to read the parquet data and create the tables in hive using the Scala API.  • Imported data from our relational data stores to Hadoop using Sqoop.  • Implemented Dynamic batch feature for batch processing with Spring batch.  • Worked extensively on batch job schedulers for Pausing and Resuming job features according to the business need.  • Experience in working with Spring Quartz framework and developed various quartz jobs  • Implemented Dynamic job scheduling according to the business need (daily, weekly, monthly etc.) same using Quartz scheduler.  • Integrated with the Polymer-CLI tool, for obtaining featured Progressive Web Application  • Developer Spring Quartz jobs to run the backend jobs and generated reports.  • Implemented Java EE components using Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring transactions and Spring security modules.  • This functionality is implemented by developing RESTFUL web services using Spring boot, Spring RESTFUL template  • Utilized AWS Lambda platform to upload data into AWS S3 buckets and to trigger other Lambda functions.  • Worked on the following AWS services like EC2, S3, VPC, EBS, ELB, Auto Scaling, Cloud Watch, Cloud Trail, IAM, SNS, SQS, RDS, DynamoDB, etc.  • Implemented the application using design patterns such as Session Façade, Business Delegate, Bean Factory, Singleton, Data Access Object, and Service Locator.  • Implemented Hibernate Template to great extent making use of HQL, Named Parameters, Named Queries and interfaces such as Expression, Query and Criteria.  • Administered and deployed applications into WebSphere Application Server.  • Used SAX and DOM parser to parse the XML documents and XSLT for transformations.  • Worked with core java technologies like Multi-Threading and synchronization.  • Handled Java Multi-Threading part in back-end component, one thread will be running for each user, which serves that user  • Implementation of Thread pool and locks for concurrency management.  • Involved in creating test cases using JUnit strictly following Test Driven Development (TDD) methodology.  • Used JUnit, Mocktio and Power Mocks framework for unit testing of application and implemented Test Driven Development (TDD) methodology.  • Worked on SOAP Web Services using SOAP for transmission of large blocks of XML data over HTTP.  • Used Maven, Nexus and Jenkins to automate the build and deploy process.  • Involved in testing the JMS integration between queues and topics using GEMS.  • Used Mockito Framework for Junit.  • Used JUnit for unit testing of the application and log4j for logging.    Environment: Java 8, Spring 3.5, Hibernate 4.2, Spring batch, Spring quartz, Spring security, Spring Jta, Spring Boot, JPA, Java Scripts, AngularJS, HTML 4.0, CSS, JMS, JAXP (SAX & DOM), AWS, WebSphere Application Server, Eclipse/RAD 8.0, Oracle 11g, SOAP, RUP, Maven, log4j, Polymer, JUnit, XML, MongoDB, Web Services , ILogJRules 5.0, Splunk, GIT. Java Developer & UI Developer BMO Harris Bank - Chicago, IL May 2016 to April 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developed the J2EE application based on the Service Oriented Architecture.  • Used Design Patterns like Singleton, Factory, MVC, Intercepting Filter, Front Controller, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Session Facade and DAO.  • Developed using new features of Java 1.5 like Annotations, Generics, enhanced for loop and Enums.  • Involved in writing Thread Safe blocks for multithread access to make valid transactions.  • Used Spring Inheritance to develop beans from already developed parent beans.  • Worked on Spring Quartz functionality for scheduling tasks such as generating monthly reports for customers and sending those mails about different policies.  • Used DAO pattern to fetch data from database using Hibernate to carry out various database.  • Used Hibernate Transaction Management, Hibernate Batch Transactions, and cache concepts.  • Created session EJBs that retrieved information from the Oracle database using Hibernate.  • Defined Action Forms, Model Components using Struts MVC framework providing very clean division between controllers, flexibility with the use of interfaces and providing thin web layer over business layer.  • Developed various generic JavaScript functions used for validations.  • Developed screens using JSP, JavaScript, AJAX and Ext JS.  • Used JIRA for defect tracking and project management.  • Used AJAX extensively to implement front end /user interface features in the application.  • Implemented SOA to develop Web services using Apache Axis.  • A set of Web Services was created using CXF to handle SOAP requests with HL7 payload and addressing  • Developed Web Services clients to consume those Web Services as well other enterprise wide Web Services.  • Exposed the Web Services to the client applications by sharing the WSDL's.  • Configured Selenium WebDriver, TestNG, Maven tool and created selenium automation scripts in java using Test NG prior to agile release.  • Created logical and physical data models putting to practice, concepts of normalization and RDBMS.  • Database development required creation of new tables, PL/SQLstored procedures, functions, views, indexes and constraints, triggers and required SQL tuning to reduce the response time in the application.  • Followed Agile SCRUM methodology and used Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Used Rational Application Developer (RAD) which is based on Eclipse, to develop and debug application code.  • Used Ant scripts to build and deploy the applications in JBoss application Server.  • Used Log4j utility to generate run-time logs.  • CVS was used for project management and version management.  • Deployed the application on WebSphere 7.0 application server.  • Developed Functional Requirement Document based on users' requirement.  Environment: J2EE, Spring framework, Spring MVC, iBatis 2.2, JSP 2.0, JSF, Servlets 2.3, JDBC, AJAX, Web services, SOAP, XML, Java Beans, XStream, Apache POI, Ext JS, jQuery, JavaScript, Oracle 10g, IBM RAD, WebSphere 7.0,Data Grid, Agile Methodology, TDD, Selenium, Design Patterns, CVS, Apache Maven, JUnit, HTML, XSLT, HTML/DHTML. Jr. Java Developer Matrix Network Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana November 2014 to April 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering and analyzing system requirements.  • Played key role in the high-level design for the implementation of this application.  • Developed the Training and Appraisal modules using Java, JSP, Servlets and JavaScript.  • Developed UI using java swings.  • Created tables, Views, Types, triggers, complex join queries, stored procedures, and functions and modification to exciting database structure as required for addition of new features.  • Involved in Designing the Database Schema and writing the complex SQL queries.  • Involved in Code reviews for other modules developed by peers.  • Designing and establishing the process and mapping the functional requirement to the workflow process.  • Accessed stored procedures and functions using JDBC Callable statements.  • Deployed the applications on IBM Web Sphere Application Server 6.0.  • Executed and coordinated the installation for the project.  • Worked on web-based reporting system with HTML, JavaScript and JSP.  Environment: Java, Jdk 1.3, J2EE (JSP, Servlets, EJB), JDBC, Apache Tomcat, oracle, HTML, DHTML, IBM Web Sphere 6.0, SQL and JUnit. Education Master's Skills Awt, Bea, Bea weblogic, Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jax, Jaxb, Jax-rpc, Jax-ws, Jboss, Jfc, Jms, Jndi, jquery, Jsp, Jstl, React, Javascript, Angular, Nodejs, Node