UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer ? About 5 Years of progressive experience in all phases of software development life cycle including requirements  analysis, applications design, development, Integration, maintenance, installation, implementation and testing of  various client/server, N-tier and web applications.  ? Experienced as a full stack developer in developing web and enterprise applications using Java, JavaScript, JSP,  HTML, XHTML, jQuery, CSS, Ajax, JSON, Reactive Extensions, Spring framework, Spring Boot and JDBC.  ? Diverse experience utilizing tools in N-tier and microservices architecture applications using Spring Boot, Spring  cloud config, AWS, Kafka, Restful Web Services.  ? Good experience working with HTML5/CSS3 development.  ? Good experience working with Angular6, bootstrap etc.  ? Experience in UI/UX design using web standards.  ? Experience with Chrome Developer Tool, IE Developer Toolbar and Firebug for different browsers.  ? Sound understanding and good Experience with Object Oriented Concepts, Object Oriented JavaScript, Object  Oriented Design and Implementation.  ? Strong work experience in web-based application development, database distributed computing, server-side  programming and client server computing threaded software systems using Java and XML parsing.  ? Good Experience working with High Traffic Websites.  ? Strong experience in application servers like WebLogic, WebSphere, Tomcat.  ? Experience in version control system using git, svn, accurev.  ? Highly Curious about new front-end development technologies and adept at promptly and thoroughly mastering  them with a keen awareness of new industry developments and the evolution of programming solutions.  ? Possess good team-management and leadership qualities. Proven background for leading teams in stressful,  deadline-oriented environment.  ? Excellent communication, interpersonal and presentation skills. self-starter and customer focused. Work Experience UI Developer Anthem - Atlanta, GA March 2018 to February 2019 Project: Member portal & Reimage project    Project Description:  The Reimage project is a complete redesign of customer facing portion of anthem.com to help and improve customer's experience for accessing account information, pay bills, submit claims, access customer's  benefits, ability to search & compare cost and services.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed new application using Angular 6, spring services in an agile environment.  ? Responsible for front end architecture, code reviews, post merge deployments and releases.  ? Developed components, services, pipes, routes, error handlers using typescript & Angular 6.  ? Used reactive extensions extensively for asynchronous programming with observable streams using Angular 6.  ? Used HTML5 web workers with Angular 6 to improve rendering speed of application, sorting data set in application.  ? Used Angular Redux for state management of components across the application.  ? Designed and developed front end applications and user interactive web pages using technologies like HTML5,  CSS3, Angular6 and NodeJS  ? Used git extensively to pull, merge repositories.  ? Involved in peer level design & code reviews.  ? Involved in requirements and implementations.  ? Used JSON objects to transform the data between Spring boot and Angular6.  ? Integrated the application with iOS SDK to run it on mobile devices.  ? Involved in using Core Java concepts - Collections, Exception Handling, Multi-Threading and Serialization.  ? Used micro service architecture with spring boot based services interacting through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka endpoints. Deployed spring boot services to AWS..  ? Used Spring Framework to inject services, entity services, transaction management, and concerns by factory class  corresponding to the use case operation executing.    Environment: J ava1.8, Java EE, WebLogic application server, JavaScript, TypeScript, Node.js, Angular6, Webpack,  Reactive extensions, Angular Redux, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Ajax, Swift, iOS, Git, Fiddler, Chrome developer tools, IE  developer tool, Eclipse, Spring framework, Spring boot, Maven, SQL, SQL Developer, AWS. UI Developer Arcelor Mittal, Buns Harbor September 2017 to February 2018 Project Description:  HRMS (Human Resource Management System) is an application capable of handling various  modules required for the company as an integrated system with on-line update of all related entries of other relevant  modules. My Dashboard shows all the new events posted in AIG Insurance sub modules. Notification, Mandates and Training all these three modules are used to notify particular information to the selected group/users with the expiry  date and supporting documents. The expiry date for the message either one time or recurring type.    Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for the analysis, documenting requirements and architecting the application based on Java EE  standards. Strictly Followed Test Driven Development.  ? Developed user interfaces using HTML5, JSP, Java, JavaScript, CSS3 & jQuery.  ? Developed application using Angular2, node.js with express and developer tools.  ? Created client-side components and widgets using libraries like jQuery, bootstrap.js  ? Coordinating and tracking all projects for seamless releases using Project Management System JIRA  ? Expert in Using Angular2 components such as modules, directives, controllers, filters, services and APIs to build  up Single Page Application (SPA), consumer's information arrangement and order products classification, etc.  ? Created tables by using HTML5 and CSS3 to display information and executed JSON data parsing  using Angular2 to render information on tables.  ? Used Angular2 $http service to interact with RESTful web services and JSON to manage consumer's information  such as updating, replacing or cancelling orders for consumers.  ? Involved in investigating the feasibility of Mobile First & Responsive Web Design using HTML 5 & CSS3, so that  Web pages can adapt to multiple screen sizes (desktops, tablets and smartphones).  ? Worked extensively on Spring boot for building web services.  ? Configuring Maven for project compilation and building.  ? Interacting with client in design and code review meetings.  ? Used Crucible Review Tool for code review meetings.  ? Extensively involved in the Pair Programming Methodology which would increase the quality of writing better  code.  ? Participated in Daily Scrum Meetings and Sprint Retrospective and sprint planning for on time delivery of Business Needs.  ? Extensively Worked with Eclipse as the IDE to develop, test and deploy the complete application  ? Active participation in WebLogic server and Oracle problems (killing instances, debugging server logs,  applications logs) using Firebug.  ? Involved in Code Refactoring and Implementing Solid Principles (Object Oriented Design).  ? Client-side validations and server-side validations are done according to the business needs.  ? Written test cases using Junit and Mockito framework.  ? Participated in User Acceptance Testing and issue resolution  ? Enterprise production release and post production support.    Environment: J ava1.7, Java EE, WebLogic application server, JavaScript, Node.js, Angular2, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery,  Ajax, Git, Fiddler, Chrome developer tools, IE developer tool, Firebug, Eclipse, Spring framework, Maven, SQL, Toad Software Developer Vanguard - Charlotte, NC March 2015 to August 2017 Project Description:  The hybrid application was developed for various mutual fund services. It was the enhancement of the one already existing and provided the customers how to apply for the loan, process the loans etc. The customers  can also logon to their accounts via Internet to check the balance, make the payment or refinance the loan.    Responsibilities:  ? Analyzed business requirements, participated in technical design, development and testing of various modules  assigned.  ? Participate in test case reviews, code reviews and testing.  ? Custom Tags for responsiveness.  ? Used J2EE design patterns like MVC, Factory Pattern, Singleton and DAO.  ? Develop distributed applications and supporting applications using J2EE, J2SE.  ? Used Spring JDBC for converting the standard SQL Exception into Runtime Exception.  ? Involved in unit testing (JUNIT) checkout and check in the source code from SVN  ? Used Log4J for logging.  ? Consumed SOAP based Webservices, RESTful.  ? SQL development using Stored Procedures, Views and Queries with DB2.  ? Involved in writing JSP's and Filters.  ? Used Java Script for front-end validation  ? Used HTTPWatch professional for performance testing  ? Deploying applications on IBM WebSphere Application Server.  ? Ensure quality assurance i.e. deliverables created match business specification.  ? For managing the component state and processing the component data used JSF 2.0.  ? Developed UI using Facelets and Primefaces3.0.  ? Used JSF2.0 for handling events and validating the user inputs.  ? Used JSF2.0 for Internationalization.  ? Coordinated with QA team to ensure the quality of application.    Environment: Java1.5/5.0, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, JSF 2.0/Facelets/Primefaces 3.0, XML, CSS, HTML, DB2, SQL, Pl/SQL,  JavaScript, IBM WebSphere Application Server 6.1/7, RAD 7.5, Log4j, Camel and Maven, UNIX , Junit, Windows,  RESTful Web Services Java Developer Coventry Health Care - Chicago, IL January 2014 to September 2014 Project Description:  Coventry Health Care is writing server-side web services for their different health care products.  Customer will choose different health care benefits out of the plan options available. The services will enable them to manage health insurance products, features, benefits and benefit values and attributes. Client interacts through web  interface with web services written at back end to fetch data from database and select their plan benefits    Responsibilities:  ? Worked on Spring integration with JSF.  ? Worked on Spring application framework features IOC container and AOP.  ? Worked on JSPs using JSF UI tags, injecting backing beans through spring.  ? Configured faces-config.xml and Spring IOC.  ? Developed screens which consist of JSF validators, jQuery, AJAX and JavaScript, CSS, HTML.  ? Developed applications using Hibernate persistent framework, developed persistent classes, hibernate-mapping  files.hbm.xml file, used hibernate query language.  ? Worked on the Web Services, RESTful classes and WSDL generation.  ? Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection and integrated with ORM framework Hibernate.  ? Developed and Deployed Web services - WSDL and SOAP for getting credit score information from third party.  ? Used CVS, Perforce as configuration management tool for code versioning and release.  ? Deployment on WebSphere Application Server 6.0.  ? Designed and developed reporting module using Jasper Reports.  ? Used Log4J to print the logging, debugging, warning, info on the server console.  ? Involved in debugging and troubleshooting related to production and environment issues.  ? Created Test cases, Junit test cases and tested the application thoroughly.  ? Performed E2E Testing.    Environment: Java, JEE [Servlet, JSP], Data Structures, Eclipse, JBOSS, XML, JAXB, JSF 2.0, Spring, Hibernate, jQuery,  Log4j, ANT, web services, Jasper, Junit, UNIX, Websphere Application Server 6.0, and Oracle, RESTful. Skills HTML (4 years), Java (5 years), JavaScript (5 years), SQL (3 years), web services (4 years)