Job Seeker Solon, OH • 4.5 Years of experience in IT  • Looking for an OTM role where I can showcase my OTM techno-functional capabilities  • OTM Cloud Service 2017 Certified Implementation Specialist Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Kuehne + Nagel October 2017 to October 2018 Client Name: Kuehne + Nagel  Project Description:  K+N is one of the world's leading logistics providers, a global leader in sea freight and air freight. K+N also ranks among the top five worldwide contract logistics players. They have implemented Oracle Transportation Management (OTM) as their core application for their Transportation sector.  The project involved managing 3rd party service provider rates, Invoice generation, customizing screens for various users, configuring Automation agents and Master Data Management  Key Areas of contribution:  ? Analysis of the specifications provided by the clients  ? Design and development of agents and workflows  ? Automated Invoice generation  ? Invoice integration with external systems  ? Master data management, Screen sets & Manager Layouts Configuration & Menu Management  ? Technical and Functional Design Documents  ? Fine tuning agents DHL - UK June 2016 to February 2017 Client Name: DHL UK  Project Description:  DHL is the global market leader in international express, overland transport and air freight. It is also the world's number 1 in ocean freight and contract logistics. They are into courier, express and parcel delivery services.  DHL uses a third-party tool named Proview for tracking the shipments. The data displayed in ProView is fetched from OTM. The project involved custom query objects and finder sets to fetch the required data from OTM and support.  Key Areas of contribution:  ? Analysis of the specifications provided by the clients  ? Design and Development of Agents  ? Creation of custom OTM Query Objects which OTM uses to perform search  ? Creating custom Screen Sets, Manager Layouts & Menus  ? Production support, issue management & resolution  ? Agent & Saved Query fine tuning  ? Bug fixing on existing Agents & Saved Queries  ? Troubleshooting agents and rate setup    India Experience (OTM & Java) (3 Years) OTM Customization - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2007 to January 2008 Project Description:  Agility Logistics being one of the Leading logistics providers in the Middle East has OTM as their main Logistics solution. Agility was customizing OTM as per its requirements. Some of the customization modules include Rates, User Screens, Finder sets at different process points.  Key Areas of contribution:  ? Analysis of the detailed technical design and configuration  ? Design and Development of Module involving implementation of Rate Management functionality.  ? Customization relating to certain user screens  ? Developing manager screens in OTM.  ? Developing Agents and related configurations  ? Post Production support and bug fixing  ? Unit testing of the application DHL - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2006 to March 2007 Client Name: DHL Global Forwarding  Project Description:    This project is to be carried out for DHL, Belgium. This project is to implement the existing system of Freight forwarding process with OTM. There are basically 3 streams - Billing, Rate Management and Performance Management.  ? Billing and Rate Management is to customize the freight settlement process into OTM.  ? Review and understand existing system processes    Key Areas of contribution:  ? Master data management (Locations, Rates etc) using CSV Uploads  ? Technical and Functional Design Documents  ? Created Automation agents for various Business processes  ? Custom Screen sets, Manager layouts & Menus for various users Java Trainee / Developer Sunshine Software Services Pvt Ltd July 2004 to December 2005 Organization: Sunshine Software Services Pvt Ltd Education Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science and Information Technology JNTU College of Engineering Skills Java, Sql, Xml, Xsl Certifications/Licenses Oracle Transportation Management 2017 Cloud Certified Implementation Specialist June 2019 to Present Additional Information Technical Skills:  • SQL  • XML, XSL  • Java