Student Intern Java Developer Student Intern <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Student Intern Java Developer Sterling Heights, MI • Recent graduate, around 2 years of extensive working experience in Analysis, Design, Development in developing of applications using Java/J2EE Technologies.  • Good Knowledge in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle.  • Knowledge in Developing Applications using Agile Methodologies, Waterfall Methodology.  • Knowledge in developing applications using concepts like Multi-Threading, Garbage Collections.  • Development of java Applications using Frontend Web Technologies using HTML/HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSON, XML.  • Knowledge with restful services using Java.  • Unit tested angular Code Jasmine and Karma.  • Development of Java Applications Using Concepts like Classes, Inheritance, Constructors, Polymorphism, Encapsulation, Overloading, Overriding.  • Exposure to Singleton, Model View Controller (MVC) Frameworks Like Angular JS.  • Knowledge in Spring MVC, Hibernates and Maven.  • Knowledge and Exposure in databases like Oracle, My SQL.  • Experience in Working with Java IDEs like My Eclipse, Eclipse, IntelliJ, Net Beans, Notepad++.  • Have Testing Experience in Unit Test Plans, JUnit testing framework.  • Experience in working with Core libraries of java like Java.util, Java.io, Java.net, Java.sql, Java.swing and Servlets.  • Knowledge in Programming Languages like C/C++ INCLUDING Thread Synchronization Multi-Threading, Socket Programming.  • Experience with all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as well as Agile/Scrum Methodologies.  • Knowledge in GIT controlling system.  • Good Communication Skills, Problem Solving Skills.  • Always Keen to Learn New Technologies and Algorithms. Work Experience Student Intern Java Developer Innovative Minds - Bengaluru, Karnataka January 2014 to December 2015 Project: AlertFind-Mass Notification System.    Description: AlertFind is a mass notification system for enterprise businesses. Give organization an easy-to-use, multi-channel platform for emergency and IT notifications. As an Emergency Notification System, AlertFind instantly send and receive crucial information on any device to protect your people during a crisis. As an IT Alerting System, AlertFind sends critical alerts when systems go down which will auto-escalate until the issue is resolved.  Responsibilities:  • Development of Web Application using Java, Html, Design, implement and maintain Java application phases. To take part in software and architectural development activities. Conduct software analysis, programming, testing and debugging  • Transforming requirements into stipulations. Develop, test, implement and maintain application software. Recommend changes to improve established Java application processes. Develop technical designs for application development. Develop application code for Java programs  • Involved in development of rewriting entire application UI from extjs to Angular.  • End-end software development life cycle  • Preparing Blueprints for each application screens capturing functionalities, backend APIs and use cases in document  • Creating prototype screens in Angular and getting them signed off with QA  • Worked on integrating UI screens with backend APIs and functional calls.  • Writing unit tests covering every new modules and code changes I perform.  • Identification of all possible test scenarios that needs to be covered by QA team  • Fixing defects identified by QA team  • Presenting new screen to business for signoff.  • Participated in daily SCRUM calls to update progress, raise blockers and identify next task to work.  • Collaborate with cross-functional teams to define, design, and implement new code Modules  • Used Agile methodology to emphasize on face-to-face communication and passing the iteration through a full software development cycle.    Environment: JDK 1.8, Node 8.11.2, Struts 1.2.9, Apache axis 1.4 (SOAP API), Spring Boot 1.5.10, Angular 6.0.9, ExtJS 2.3.0: Old application (before UI redesign), Tomcat, Oracle. Student Intern Java Developer Crossover - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2012 to September 2013 Project: Artemis Views-Project and Portfolio management System    Description: Artemis Views is an enterprise project and resource management solution that delivers enhanced project management capabilities through a single and synchronized product suite. Views helps organizations gather projects, costs and resources together in one, simple, modern interface. Advanced business intelligence, reports, dashboards and interactive analytics help organizations make informed decisions.  Responsibilities:  • Interacted with various legacy teams to gain insight into the newly acquired product, arranged knowledge transfer sessions for smooth technical transition and documentation.  • Setup infrastructure and automated build process for all Artemis products.  • Owned and implemented key security feature for Artemis product suite. Encrypting inter-component communication as well as encrypting passwords stored in system registries.  • Used Agile methodology to emphasize on face-to-face communication and passing the iteration through a full software development cycle  • Exposed to entire development life cycle culminating with product documentation and training videos.  • Involved in implementation of export utility and reporting feature for a customer.  • Collaborate with Product Management and User Experience experts regarding product definition, schedule, scope and project-related decisions.  • Worked on a largescale distributed computing environment, monitoring data nodes to prioritize jobs for processing functions.  • Involved in Design, Development, Deployment, Testing, Implementation of the application.  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of a project.  • Responsible debugging and troubleshooting programming related issues.  • Ensured the best possible performance, quality, and responsiveness of the applications.  • Collaborate with cross-functional teams to define, design, and implement new code modules    Environment: Java, HTML, JavaScript, Oracle, JSP, Tomcat, JDBC, Servlets, Junit, Log4j, Eclipse    Intermediate to advanced skill with the Python programming language  Web frameworks (RBAC, Sessions, ORM)  Knowledge of Linux operating systems  JavaScript, including jQuery  HTML5 and CSS3  RDBMS database experience, preferably PostgreSQL  NoSQL database experience; plus Education Masters in Computer Science in Computer Science Wright State University - Dayton, OH 2016 to 2018 Bachelors in Computer Science and Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering CVR College In Engineering - Hyderabad, Telangana 2012 to 2016 Skills JAVA (3 years), HTML (3 years), ORACLE (3 years), TOMCAT (3 years), APACHE (1 year), javascript Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Programming Languages C, C++, Python, Java, J2EE, Java Script.  Web Designing HTML, CSS, Java Script, JQuery, JSON, JSP  Servers Apache Tomcat, WebSphere Application Server.  Scripting Languages JavaScript, CSS  Mark-up Languages HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, Ajax and XML  Frameworks Angular .js, Node.js  Databases Oracle, MySQL.  Operating Systems Linux, Windows  IDE Tools Eclipse, Notepad++ and NetBeans  Web Services REST, SOAP  Version Control Systems Git, SVN  Testing Tools Junit, Jasmine and Selenium