Production Support Analyst Production Support Analyst Alpharetta, GA • Above 2 years of experience in Object Oriented Programming including web application development.  • Design and development expertise on Web Applications with J2EE technologies like Java, Servlet, JSP, Spring, Web Services, Hibernate, XML.  • Extensive work with front end Enterprise Java Technologies like EJBs, Servlets, and JSP • Comprehensive work with back end technologies such as JDBC, and Hibernate.  • Understanding and use of J2EE Web Service technologies such as SOAP, WSDL, REST, Microservices.  • Strong understanding of Spring Framework features like AOP, DAO framework, and Dependency Injection.  • Considerable experience in integrating string with both Hibernate and Struts.  • Quick to learn, always open to new technologies, and new work environments • Knowledgeable on various SDLC methodologies such as Waterfall and Agile.  • Succesfully gone through a National Agency Check with Local Agency Check and Credit Check Work Experience Production Support Analyst Cognizant - Atlanta, GA January 2018 to May 2019 OPUS for AT&T  Opus (One Point Unit of Sale/System) is the application used to control Point of Sale systems at ATT stores and authorized retailers nation wide.  Responsibilities: ? Install, move, and delete registers are required by end users ? Create and manage stores ? Manage configuration lists to that determine store and higher level cababilities ? Directly aid customers with other issues as they arise.  Environments: Windows, SQL, TOAD  Cognizant February 2018 - January 2019  Cleveland, OH  Production Support  Payments and Deposits for Key Bank  Payments and Deposits represent a series of application used by Key Bank to manage transactions, transaction disputes, check returns, and other functions. Due to the time sensitive nature of these operations solutions must implemented rapidly and must be continuously available necessitating 24/7 support.  Responsibilities: ? Issues raised by end users with twenty-four seven support ? Managed as needed deployments in limited operations windows ? Facilitated group interaction, and project deployment ? Engaged in and facilitated communications with business users to properly incorporate new features into existing project ? Engaged in and facilitated communication between multiple teams with radically different, but mutually reliant projects.  ? Worked to identify and resolve onsite issues Java Contractor Multivision, LLC - Fairfax, VA May 2015 to July 2017 Fairfax, VA  Java Contractor  Java Boot camp  Multivision is a technology training and contracting company. I learned how to use a number of frameworks during that time, including Spring, Struts, and Hibernate.  Responsibilities: • Learning and practicing new frameworks.  • Continuous testing on skill level    Environments: Java 7, JSP, JSTL, SQL, Oracle 10g, SVN, GIT, TomCat, Maven, REST, SOAP, Hibernate, Spring, Struts, Servlets, AOP Java Developer/Production Support Cognizant - Sacramento, CA December 2015 to April 2017 Sacramento, CA  Java Developer/Production Support  Healthnet Federal Services Website  Healthnet Federal Services Website: Web based application in J2EE for Tricare beneficiaries, health care providers, and department of defense medical personnel. Provides a centralized application for submitting and monitoring insurance claims, authorizations, and billing along with providing general information and tools related to Tricare in the North Region. This system is used as a bridge between the company and its clients/vendors.  Responsibilities: • Rapidly and efficiently responded issues raised by end users • Managed regular deployments in limited operations windows • Gathered regular performance metrics • Utilized Oracle 10g database to store and retrieve persistent data • Facilitated group interaction, and project direction • Found and corrected long standing issues in existing codebase • Altered JSPs to display new information to the user • Engaged in and facilitated communications with business users to properly incorporate new features into existing project • Engaged in and facilitated communication between multiple teams with radically different, but mutually reliant projects.  • Worked to identify and resolve onsite issues • Using JUnit to unit test code Education Bachelors of Science in Computer Science Westminster College Skills Microsoft office (2 years), Java (2 years), Ticketing, Production Support, Help Desk, Desktop Support Assessments Numerical Reasoning Skills — Highly Proficient March 2019 Quickly and accurately perform basic mathematical operations, recognize numerical sequences, and interpret graphs. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/gekfw11iyhw2fpzs Technical Support — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/a4bkzrxn67jo6xwr Customer Focus & Orientation — Proficient August 2019 Responding to customer situations with sensitivity. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/dmffixe52ew3x5q8 Proficiency with Microsoft Office: Mail & Calendar (Mac) — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate’s proficiency in using Microsoft Office Mail and Calendar tools to manage their workload. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/gkh6qk7j5ahysqab Proficiency with Microsoft Office: Mail & Calendar (PC) — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate’s proficiency in using Microsoft Office Mail and Calendar tools to manage their workload. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/wvmlkle1kh0thaqd Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.