Java Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Full Stack Developer - Wells Fargo New Milford, NJ • Over 3 years of IT experience in Analysis, Design, Development, implementation and execution of test cases of software application using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Experienced in Java Application Development, Object Oriented Concepts, Object Oriented Design (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis (OOA), Object Oriented Programming (OOP) and its implementation.  • Experience working with various SDLC methodologies like Agile Scrum, RUP and Waterfall Model.  • Expertise in implementing the persistence logic using JDBC, JPA, Spring JDBC, Hibernate  • Strong experience in working on JavaScript environment like MEAN (Mongo, Express, Angular, Node)  • Strong knowledge on OOPs concepts, Core Java, Multithreading, Exception handling, and Collection Framework.  • Strong programming skills towards developing and implementing complete n-tier web based application systems using Java/J2EE technologies- JDBC, JSP, Servlets, Enterprise Java Beans, JSF, Spring, SOA implementation, XML, JAXB, JSON, WSDL.  • Experienced in coding using core java concepts like multithreading, collections, serialization, synchronization, exception handling and database connections  • Strong knowledge in implementing IOC and Dependency Injection features in various aspects of Spring Framework.  • Good knowledge on the Spring Modules like Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring Batch and Spring Boot.  • Having Handful experience in using OAuth 2 for Microservices security. Experience with Web/Application servers (Tomcat, Web Logic and JBOSS)  • Experience in using Restful framework like JAX-RS Framework, SOAP Web services using JAX-WS, Apache CXF, Jersey.  • Experience in using different version controlling/tracking systems GIT, CVS, Subversion, and Rational Clear Case. Experience on APG Gateway Management tools like Apigee. Experience using JIRA ,Bugzilla5.0.x /4.4.x and QualityCentre as issue and bug tracking tools.  • Experienced with J-Unit Framework4.x, Jasmine and Mockito for developing test cases using Test driven development (TDD) approach and log4j for logging.  • Expertise in using databases such as Oracle, DB2 and MySQL as a distributed database management system and writing Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views and triggers  • Experienced in performing unit testing using JUnit, Mockito integration and deployment of applications using tools such as ANT, Jenkins and Maven & debugging through log4j.  • Deep knowledge of Splunk.  • Experience in using Ant1.x and Maven3.x for build automation.  • Skilled and experienced in co-coordinating efforts among multiple teams (on-site and off-shore and third parties).  • Excellent verbal, written communication and presentation skills, problem solving and conflict resolution skills Work Experience Java Full Stack Developer Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC February 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • The application is built Micro Service Oriented Architecture using MEAN4+ (MongoDB, Express JS, Angular 4.0/6.0 and Node.js) stack and developed Single Page Applications (SPA).  • Designed and developed efficient user Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3-SASS and Twitter Bootstrap CSS framework and media queries to create responsive web pages.  • Used Web Pack module bundler for compilation of SAAS files into CSS and for monitoring the application.  • Developed multiple Angular 4.0/6.0 components which are compatible with latest versions of typescript, angular CLI.  • Configured various routes, directives for grid, pagination, conditional validations, templating, dynamic loading, lazy loading, Shadow DOM, ngrx store.  • Developed angular views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data with server as a SPA.  • Built-in AJAX HTTP Service with observables is used extensively for making quick and incremental updates to UI of the application.  • Implemented Node JS as a server-side proxy for an event-driven, non-blocking I/O model to make the application lightweight and efficient.  • Developing RESTful web services using Node JS and Express JS and used Node JS server to interact with the Rest services and database, hosted on multiple load balanced cloud instances.  • Utilized the inbuilt NPM package manager to configure the right versions of the packages and to achieve dependency management.  • Configured Express JS node http framework to set up middle-wares to respond to HTTP requests and used its front-end tooling like web packs, starter packs, boiler plates efficiently.  • Implemented a robust RESTful (Apache CXF) web service and automated documentation to the web services in the application is provided by Swagger by configuring hapi-swaggered and hapi-swaggered-ui.  • Unit testing of web services is done using Spock framework by extending Groovy syntax.  • Testing for Node JS is done using Mocha and chai and for Spring boot used Mokito, junit, mock mvc and thereby achieving Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Building cloud Microservices and implemented back-end using Spring Boot and Authored application using Spring Cloud services (spring version of Netflix OSS-Eureka that helps in routing, Circuit Breaker and Ribbon for client-side load balancing).  • Configured OIDC (Open ID Connect) on top of OAUTH 2.0 authentication and authorization framework to provide the security to rest web services.  • Implemented Single Sign On and policy-based authentication using Site Minder security framework.  • Configured JBOSS Application server and used Oracle database with Hibernate ORM framework and used the functionalities of Hibernate's second level EHCache.  • Created dynamic schema design through NOSQL Mongo DB by writing rich queries and achieved data in a collection to be distributed across multiple systems for horizontal scalability as data volumes increase through Automatic Sharding.  • Implemented Mongoose Connector as our ODM framework.  • Configured Kibana data visualization plugin for Elasticsearch, Logstash and created bar, line and scatter plots, or pie charts and maps on top of large volumes of data.  • Configured Docker container service and build pipe line Jenkins CI/CD tool for continuous integrating and deploying application on servers.  • Installed, configured, and administered NoSQL database clusters in AWS Virtual Private Cloud Network for available data on cloud.  • Implemented AWS solutions using E2C, S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto scaling groups, Optimized volumes and EC2 instances and created monitors, alarms and notifications for EC2 hosts using Cloud Watch.  • Configured New Relic to measure and monitor the performance of application.  • Provided production support/on call support to fix production issues after the deployment.    Environment: Angular 4.0/6.0, Node JS, Express JS, Hapi JS, HTML5, CSS3-SASS, Twitter Bootstrap4.0, Site Minder, OAuth2.0, OIDC, Eclipse Java EE IDE, JIRA, IBM MQ, Jenkins, Log4j, Apache tomcat, Mokito, Junit, mock mvc, New Relic, Swagger, Maven3.0. Java Full stack Developer CareSource, Downtown - Dayton, OH August 2017 to February 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the complete SDLC (software development life cycle) of the application from requirement analysis to testing.  • Involved in Analysis, design and coding on Java and J2EE Environment.  • Implemented Spring Framework for the project.  • Responsible for Creating custom, general use modules and components which extend the elements and modules of core Angular 4.  • Created and maintain web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQUERY, Java, J2EE and also responsible for Designing of Web pages including Ajax controls and XML.  • Created and managed microservices. Microservices were being used as a strategy to gradually replace a core monolithic application while still adding business features  • All the functionality is implemented using Spring IO / Spring Boot, Microservices and Hibernate ORM.  • Created and injected Spring Services, Spring controllers and DAOs to achieve dependency injection and to wire objects of business classes.  • Followed agile methodology for developing the application.  • Created continuous integration builds using Jenkins and deployed on app server.  • Extensively used spring framework and Apache CXF for producing SOAP and REST web services as a part of the project development  • Spring MVC Framework IOC (Inversion of Control) design pattern is used to have relationships between application components.  • Implementing Web services using JSON.  • Developed various generic JavaScript functions used for validations.  • Using GIT for Source Control and Version Management.  • Focused on Test Driven Development (TDD) thereby creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality before writing the functionality.  • Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly.  • Manipulated data to both send and fetch data from the server through GET, DELETE and POST requests.  • Handled response data from Restful web services using XML, JSON and JQuery to update UI Interacted with java controllers (JQuery, Ajax, and JSON to write/read data from back end systems).  • Involved in writing test plans, Test Cases and Test Scripts using selenium  • Designed and developed Test Scenario/Test Cases/Test steps for various Business Services/methods covering both positive and negative testing.  • Configured Selenium WebDriver, TestNG, and Maven created Selenium automation scripts in java using JUnit.    Environment: Java jdk, JEE, Java 8, JSP, HTML5, CSS3, Angular 4, polymer JS, AJAX, JSON, Node JS, React JS, Microservices, Multithreading, XML, Restful web services, JQuery UI, Maven, Apache CXF, Spring MVC, JavaScript, GIT, SOAP, Mongo DB, J2EE, Oracle 11g, Eclipse 3.5, JUnit 4.4, Agile, AWS, Git, JSP, Apache Tomcat. Java/J2EE Developer Prodapt Solutions - IN November 2013 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Implemented the application using Spring Framework which is based on Model View Controller design pattern  • Applied design patterns and OO design concepts to improve the existing Java/J2EE code base  • Used Groovy for automation testing and Spock for integration testing  • Used EJBs in the application and developed Session beans to house business logic at the middle tier level  • Involved in writing PL/SQL stored procedures using PL/SQL Developer  • Tested, debugged and implemented the application using JUnit for unit testing  • Involved in documentation, code reviews and analysis  • Build and deployment of the application on WebLogic Server  • Used Maven and ANT scripts for building and deploying application on to the server  • Bamboo is used for running the test cases  • Enterprise Tester & JIRA are utilized for end - to -end testing of the application  • Agile methodology is followed for software development  • Github is the version tool.  • Extensively used IntelliJ IDE for development.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring 3, Groovy on Grails, Maven, ANT, SQL, PL/SQL, Unix, IntelliJ, Oracle VM VirtualBox, DB2, Enterprise Tester, JIRA. Education Master's Skills JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, JBOSS, JMS, Javascript, Angular, Jquery