Sr. Talend Developer Sr. Talend <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Talend Developer - Fidelity Investments • 5+ years of experience in the IT industry and Progressive experience in providing product specifications, development, design, coding and implementation of business technology solutions in Data Warehousing applications.  • 5+ years of Extensive experience in ETL design, development and maintenance in a corporate wide ETL solution using SQL, PL/SQL, TALEND 4.x/5.x/6.x on UNIX and Windows platforms.  • Extensive experience in Java, J2EE, Java Script, JSP, JQuery, AJAX.  • Strong experience with Talend tools - Data integration and experience in Data Mapper, Joblets, Metadata and Talend components, jobs.  • Experienced in Implementation of ETL engine using Java to handle incremental loads.  • Extensive knowledge of various Performance Tuning Techniques on Sources, Targets, Talend Mappings, Jobs, and Data Base Tuning.  • Thorough understanding of configuration, administration and upgrading of Talend data integration.  • Experience in multiple relational databases like Oracle, MS SQL Server, Teradata, DB2 and non-relational sources like COBOL Files and Flat File.  • Proficient in building web enterprise applications using Servlets/JSP's, Struts 2.x, JSF and Spring MVC.  • Experienced in using Java IDE tools like Eclipse, Net Beans, JBuilder and JDeveloper.  • Developed several REST web services supporting both XML and JSON.  • Experienced in ETL Talend Data Fabric components and used features of Context Variables, My SQL, Oracle, Hive Database components.  • Used Apache flume to import and export data to and from HDFS and Hive.  • Good experience in Big Data and Hadoop Ecosystem components like Pig, Hive, Sqoop, Flume, Map Reduce.  • Experienced in Auto sys, Informatica Scheduler, Control M for ETL jobs.  • Used Stored Procedures, Triggers for Oracle, MYSQL databases and good knowledge in PL/ SQL, hands on experience in writing medium level SQL queries.  • Experienced in migrating application code from one Environment to another like Dev, QA and PROD.  • Exposure to Oracle database with JDBC drivers in developing applications using SQL and Stored Procedures (PL/SQL), My SQL database techniques.  • *Good Experience in version control tools like CVS, SVN to manage and control software development.  • Major strengths are familiarity with multiple software systems, ability to learn quickly new technologies, adapt to new environments. Work Experience Sr. Talend Developer Fidelity Investments - Atlanta, GA May 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Participated in JAD sessions with business users and SME's for better understanding of the reporting requirements.  • Design and developed end-to-end ETL process from various source systems to Staging area, from staging to Data Marts.  • Analyzing the source data to know the quality of data by using Talend Data Quality.  • Broad design, development and testing experience with Talend Integration Suite and knowledge in Performance Tuning of mappings.  • Developed jobs in Talend Enterprise edition from stage to source, intermediate, conversion and target.  • Involved in writing SQL Queries and used Joins to access data from Oracle, and My SQL.  • Used tStatsCatcher, tDie, tLogRow to create a generic job let to store processing stats.  • Solid experience in implementing complex business rules by creating re-usable transformations and robust mappings  • using Talend transformations like tConvert Type, tSort Row, tReplace, tAggregate Row, tUnite etc.  • Developed Talend jobs to populate the claims data to data warehouse - star schema.  • Developed mappings to load Fact and Dimension tables, SCD Type 1 and SCD Type 2 dimensions and Incremental  • loading and unit tested the mappings.  • Used tStatsCatcher, tDie, tLogRow to create a generic job let to store processing stats into a Database table to record job history.  • Integrated java code inside Talend studio by using components like tJavaRow, tJava, tJavaFlex and Routines.  • Experienced in using debug mode of talend to debug a job to fix errors.  • Created complex mappings using tHashOutput, tHashInput, tNormalize, tDenormalize, tMap, tUniqueRow, tPivot To Columns Delimited etc.  • Used tRunJob component to run child job from a parent job and to pass parameters from parent to child job.  • Created Context Variables and Groups to run Talend jobs against different environments.  • Used tParalleize component and multi thread execution option to run sub jobs in parallel which increases the performance of a job.  • Implemented FTP operations using Talend Studio to transfer files in between network folders as well as to FTP  • server using components like tFile Copy, TFileAcrchive, tFileDelete, tCreateTemporaryFile, tFTPDelete, tFTPCopy.  • tFTPRename, tFTPut, tFTPGet etc.  • Experienced in Building a Talend job outside of a Talend studio as well as on TAC server.  • Experienced in writing expressions with in tmap as per the business need.  • Handled insert and update Strategy using tmap.  • Used ETL methodologies and best practices to create Talend ETL jobs.  • Extracted data from flat files/ databases applied business logic to load them in the staging database as well as flat files.  Environment: Talend 5.5/, Oracle 11g, Teradata SQL Assistant, HDFS, MS SQL Server 2012/2008, PL/SQL, Agile Methodology, Informatica, TOAD, ERwin, AIX, Shell Scripts, AutoSys, SVN Talend Developer Humana Healthcare Insurance January 2016 to February 2017 Responsibilities:  • Talend MDM 5.1.1.Designed and developed the Business Rules and workflow system.  • Extensively worked on Data Mart Schema Design.  • Developed Talend ETL jobs to push the data into Talend MDM and develop the jobs to extract the data from MDM.  • Designed and developed a new ETL process to extract and load Vendors from Legacy System to MDM by using the Talend Jobs.  • Developed data validation rule in the Talend MDM to confirm the golden record.  • Developed data matching/linking rules to confirm the record.  • Designed, developing and deploying end-to-end Data Integration solution.  • Performed Star Join Schema Modeling, Snow Flake Modeling.  • Checked the accuracy of data into MSSQL Server and assured the performance system.  • Implemented ETL jobs using bulk execution components to load huge tables.  • Worked on Star Join Schema Modeling, Snow Flake Modeling.  • Tested the data with complex queries, joins, and sub queries.  • Enhanced SQLs for performance Tuning and Monitoring System Performance.  • Rolled out documentation for the ETL Process, early Data Inventory, and Data Profiling  • Implementing Data Integration process with Talend Integration Suite 3.2/4.2./5.1.2/5.2.2  • Developing the ETL mappings for XML, .csv, .txt sources and also loading the data from these sources into relational tables with Talend ETL.  Environment: TALEND Integration Suite 5.4.2, Talend MDM, LINUX, SQL SERVER 2008, Microsoft Office, Oracle 10g/11g Java/ Sql Developer Agility E Services October 2015 to November 2016 Responsibilities:  • Created detailed data mapping document for integrating various systems with Salesforce.com.  • Worked on Oracle, spring, and Hibernate based 24x7 Web applications.  • Built and deployed Java applications into multiple Unix based environments and produced both unit and functional test results along with release notes.  • Developed an end to end vertical slice for a JEE based billing application using popular frameworks like Spring, Hibernate, JSF, Facelets, XHTML, Maven2, and Ajax by applying OO design concepts, design patterns, and best practices.  • Integrated other sub-systems like loans application, equity markets online application system, and documentation system with the structured products application through JMS, Web sphere MQ, SOAP based Web services, and XML.  • Strong experience in HTML, JSP, CSS and JavaScript  • Designed the logical and physical data model, generated DDL scripts, and wrote DML scripts for Oracle 9i database.  • Tuned SQL statements, Hibernate mapping, and Web sphere application server to improve performance, and consequently met the SLAs.  • Gathered business requirements and wrote functional specifications and detailed design documents.  • Improved the build process by migrating it from Ant to Maven2.  Environment: Java 1.5, JSF Sun RI, Facelets, Ajax4JSF, Richfaces, Spring, XML, XSL, XSD, XHTML, Hibernate, Oracle 9i, PL/SQL, MINA, Spring-ws, HTML, JSP, CSS, JavaScript, Web sphere, Oracle, JMX, ANT, Maven2, JUnit, SVN, TDD, and XP. Java/SQL Developer Cancri Tech Pvt.Ltd November 2014 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Designed the framework using J2EE framework for the system, this includes coding business components and interfaces to be used by the team for system development.  • Designed and implemented MVC architecture using Spring Framework, JSF and Hibernate.  • Design and developed the Views using XSL workbench to perform CRM functionalities (MVC Framework)  • Used Eclipse as Java IDE tool for creating Servlet Action class, used XSL Workbench for developing XSL files and deployed the application on Pramarti 5.1.  • Involved in Requirement Analysis and gathering in the initial phase of the project.  • Design and Develop database. Creating Tables and Procedures in SQL, PL/SQL and Oracle and maintain database with TOAD  • Used JDBC to retrieve data from Oracle database.  • Developed server-side common utilities for the application and the front-end dynamic web pages using XSL, JavaScript and HTML/XHTML.  • Used CVS as source control.  • Check-in/Check-out ensuring QA4J, SART and EMMA check for Java files with the CVS.  • Performed Unit Testing, Integration Testing and System Testing.  Environment: Java1.5, J2EE, MVC Framework, JDBC, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, SQL 2008, QA4j, Log4j, JUnit, XSL, Servlets, Pramarthi Application Server. Education Master's