Salesforce Consultant Salesforce Consultant Salesforce Consultant - ForgeRock • A Certified Sr. Salesforce.com consultant with 5+ years of experience on Salesforce/Force.com technology with more than 60 badges on trailhead to prove a continuoue learning curve.  • Good understanding of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Agile with Expertise in requirement gathering, Analysis, Designing, Development and Testing.  • Involved in Analyzed, planned and implemented various aspects of business requirement.  • In-depth understanding of SFDC CRM business processes.  • Strong knowledge of Sales, Marketing, Service and Support Automation.  • Developed Apex classes, Controller classes, Apex Triggers and Visualforce Pages on Force.com platform to customize application according to the functional needs.  • Expertise in Apex to implement the complex business logic within Governor Limits.  • Good experience on SOQL, SOSL, Custom settings, Schedule Apex, Batch Apex.  • Have extensive experience in implementation of Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Workflow Rules, and Role based Page Layouts and Record Types, Approvals, Assignment Rules.  • Have knowledge in implementing various advanced fields like Pick lists, Custom Formula Fields, Many to Many Relationships, Lookups, Master-Details, Field Dependencies, Validation Rules, Work Flows, and Approval Processes for automated alerts, field updates & Email generation according to application requirements.  • Experienced in data migration from Legacy Systems using various data migration tools.  • Having a good knowledge on Web to leads, Email to case, Web to case, Assignment Rules, Customer and Partner Portals, Community, AppExchange.  • Ability in Creating Profiles, Roles, Users, Tasks and Actions, Dashboards, Reports, and Validation Rules.  • Extensive Experience in Salesforce Integration with in house legacy systems using Web services API like Rest, Bulk and SOAP and third party tools like Cast Iron and Informatica-on-Demand.  • Experience in Salesforce Integration with in house legacy systems using Web services API like Rest and SOAP.  • Experienced in web technologies like HTML, XML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Experience in Data Migration, Synchronization, Data-Modeling, Data Extraction, Transformation, Data Loading, Scheduling, Monitoring, and Reporting using ETL tools like Apex Data Loader,Informatica Power center and Informatica On-Demand.  • Experience working with Deployment Tools like Force.com IDE, Change Sets, and ANT based Migration Tools and Salesforce.com Sandbox environments.  • Excellent Work ethics, Self-motivated, Quick learner and Team oriented. Continually provided value added services to the clients through thoughtful experience and Excellent Communication Skills. Work Experience Salesforce Consultant ForgeRock - San Francisco, CA January 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked on various AppExhanges like Xactyl, intact, Conga Quote Generation.  • Worked on Jitterbit for Data migration  • Worked Closely with business on day to day issues in Salesforce Production Org.  • Developed several Platform Events for better bulk processing.  • Developed Reports and Dashboards, validation rules, formula fields for the application.  • Strong experience in implementing MVC with Salesforce.com.  • Used Custom meta data as rule engine to accommodate frequently changing business rules.  • Developed an integration layer for various third-party applications to support web service calls.  • Developed Sales Path to adapt a new sales process and collect proper data in right line of order.  • Developed several Lightning components, Global actions, process Builders and object specific actions.  • Developing visualforce pages, complex apex classes and triggers based on business requrements.  • Gathering business requirements, designing appropriate solutions, implementing solutions in Force.com platform, enhancing Sales processes in highly dynamic agile environment.  • Created Custom Controllers to make external web service callouts, validate and insert data.  • Implemented Lead Nurturing for marketing team.  • Created Custom Visualforce components and attributes to override the look and feel of standard Visualforce components.  • Implemented Approval Processes to ensure proper authorization in the high-stakes environment of capital management.  • Involved in data mapping and data Migration from Oracle database to SalesForce.com and Migrated leads, accounts and contacts to the Sales Cloud with help Jitterbit.  • Created various Reports (summary reports, matrix reports, pie charts, dashboards) and setup report folders to authenticate users based on their profiles (permissions).  • Used Field-level Security, Profiles and Audit Trail Setup to ensure that protected data is only shared with authorized persons as per Federal regulations.  • Implemented Docusign App Exchange Application.  • Deployed and Configured Chatter Usage Dashboards to keep track and generate reports and dashboards for high ranked users inside organization.    Environment: Apex, HTML,CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Visual Force Pages, Custom settings, REST API, Components and Controllers, XML, Task Ray Management Tool, Conga, Data Loader, Force.com, ,Service Now Tool, Force.com IDE, Sublime text. Sr. Salesforce Developer Dexcom - San Diego, CA July 2018 to December 2018 Responsibilities:  • Developed several Platform Events for better bulk processing.  • Used Custom meta data as rule engine to accommodate frequently changing business rules.  • Developed an integration layer for various third-party applications to support web service calls.  • Developed Sales Path to adapt a new sales process and collect proper data in right line of order.  • Developed several Lightning components, Global actions, process Builders and object specific actions.  • Developing visualforce pages, complex apex classes and triggers based on business requrements.  • Gathering business requirements, designing appropriate solutions, implementing solutions in Force.com platform, enhancing Sales processes in highly dynamic agile environment.  • Working on Veeva Implementation project.  • Implemented custom and standard territory management for salesforce.com instances.  • Implemented Targeting Tool for sales team.  • Worked on Web Service Callouts for creating and updating data in Oracle EBS.  • Worked with Dynamic Apex to access sObjects and Field describe information, execute dynamic SOQL and SOSL.  • Implemented visualforce pages with custom controller,standard controller, controller extension and standard set controller.  • Created Custom Controllers to make external web service callouts, validate and insert data.  • Implemented Lead Nurturing for marketing team.  • Created Custom Visualforce components and attributes to override the look and feel of standard Visualforce components.  • Implemented Approval Processes to ensure proper authorization in the high-stakes environment of capital management.  • Involved in data mapping and data Migration from Oracle database to SalesForce.com and Migrated leads, accounts and contacts to the Sales Cloud with help Jitterbit.  • Created various Reports (summary reports, matrix reports, pie charts, dashboards) and setup report folders to authenticate users based on their profiles (permissions).  • Used Field-level Security, Profiles and Audit Trail Setup to ensure that protected data is only shared with authorized persons as per Federal regulations.  • Implemented Docusign App Exchange Application.  • Deployed and Configured Chatter Usage Dashboards to keep track and generate reports and dashboards for high ranked users inside organization.    Environment: Apex, HTML,CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Visual Force Pages, Custom settings, REST API, Components and Controllers, XML, Task Ray Management Tool, Conga, Data Loader, Force.com, ,Service Now Tool, Force.com IDE, Sublime text. Sr. Salesforce Developer Service Titan - Los Angeles, CA January 2018 to July 2018 Responsibilities:  • Developed a comprehensive CRM strategy, defining Salesforce as the standard tool in both Sales Cloud and Service Cloud.  • Used Salesforce.com platform, Force.com IDE for development for Visualforce Pages, Apex classes, Triggers and creating Objects.  • Written Apex Classes, Controller, Extension Controllers and Apex Triggers in the application for various Business/functional requirements.  • Written SOQL, SOSL query language necessary for the application in Apex Classes and Triggers.  • Worked with various salesforce.com objects Lead, Account, Contact, Opportunity, Campaign, Cases, Solutions Standard objects & Custom Objects.  • Developed Reports and Dashboards, validation rules, formula fields for the application.  • Strong experience in implementing MVC with Salesforce.com.  • Provided possible solutions related to Partner portal to enhance the existing functionality.  Implemented Single Sign-On (SSO) in multiple Salesforce instances.  • Developed UI using CSS, HTML tags, Visual force components and used JavaScript for front-end validation.  • Worked on Marketo to automate and measure demand generation campaigns that generate more high-quality sales leads.  • Integrated Force.com with Salesforce 1 and Mobile Apps.  • Use various Visual force components like Action Function, Page Block, Input Field, Action Support, Data Table, Data list, Command Link, Command Button etc.  • Worked with Visualforce Controllers (Standard, Standard List, Custom, and Extension).  • Implemented Web-to-Lead and converted Lead to Account.  • Developed Workflow rules, Field, Email updates to implement the business logic for Standard and Custom Objects as per the business needs.  • Prepared data mapping document to map source and target system fields.  • Used Dataloader to bulk load data into Salesforce.com.  • Configured/Created Profiles, Roles, and Permission Sets for the organization and setting up Field-level, Object-level security rules for the application.  • Written Apex Test Classes for unit testing to ensure at least 75% of code coverage is met.  • Deployed application from Sandbox to different other Sandbox as well as into Production environments.    Environment: Saleforce.com Platform, Data Loader, Workbench, Ant Migration Tool, SQL Server, Eclipse IDE, Excel Salesforce Developer/Administrator Deloitte - Cleveland, OH February 2017 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Worked with Visual force Pages, Custom Controllers, Extension Controllers, Apex Coding, Apex Classes and Apex Triggers.  • Used Salesforce Automation (SFA) for Sales Lead Management, Campaign Management, Opportunity Management, Account and Contact Management.  • Automated Sharing rules whenever there is a new change in Sales teams instead of using an Apex trigger.  • Managed company's Phase III project implementation of Marketing Automation, complete with Auto task creation, Workflows, Scoring and Lead nurture programs, Sales Insight interesting moments, and Web form/landing Page creation.  • Developed various Custom Objects, Tabs, Entity-Relationship Data model, Validation rules, Components and Visual force Pages.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, time-triggered tasks, email alerts, field updates to implement business logic.  • Developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Created users, roles, public groups and implemented role hierarchies, sharing rules and record level permissions to provide shared access among different users.  • Created profiles and implemented Object and field level security to hide critical information on the profile users.  • Created test scenarios on Sandbox environment and used Force.com Component Deployment Wizard for migrating data between Force.com IDE and Sandbox environment.  • Created various Reports (summary reports, matrix reports, pie charts, dashboards) and Report Folders to assist managers to better utilize Salesforce as a sales tool and configured various Reports for different user profiles based on the organization's need.  • Used web technologies like HTML, XML, CSS, JSP, JQuery, JavaScript, WSDL, and SOAP.  • Used Force.com IDE to create, modify, test, and to deploy Force.com Application.  • Provided post-implementation support to assist end users in creating reports, dashboards and certain Administration tasks including creating and maintaining user profiles and privileges.    Environment: Force.com IDE, Apex data loader,Saleforce.com platform, Data Loader, Workbench, Ant Migration Tool, SQL Server, Eclipse IDE,Excel. Java Developer/Salesforce Developer CloudFactory, Nepal - NP March 2014 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the requirements gathering, analysis, design, development, and testing phases of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC).  • Implemented Java Persistence API (JPA) through Hibernate 3.0. Created connections to database using Hibernate session Factory, using Hibernate APIs to retrieve and stored data to the database with Hibernate transaction control.  • Worked with the team to design the front end GUI using JSP, JScript and HTML.  • Spring, Servlets, JSP, and JSTL are used for building the application.  • Worked on JavaScript to implement front end side validations.  • Design and developed application with a comprehensive knowledge of Java and J2EE.  • Implemented MVC Architecture using Struts Framework.  • Design, Development of JSP pages, Servlets and re-usable Java Beans using Apache Spring  • Designed various Visual Force for customers to select a variety of services offered by the organization and integrate them with the pricing team.  • Designed, and developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes, extensions and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Maintaining test coverage for all the classes and triggers and supporting deployment activities.  • Designed, and deployed the Custom objects, Custom tabs, Entity-Relationship data model, validation rules, Workflow Rules, Auto-Response Rules, Page layouts, Components, Visual Force Pages to suit to the needs of the application.  • Used SOQL & SOSL with consideration to Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Used Data Loader for insert, update and bulk import or export of data from Salesforce.com    Environment: Web Sphere Server, Struts 2.0, JSTL, CSS, DB2, JSP, JDBC, EJB, RAD, J2EE, Java, UMLs, HTML, Joint, Log4j, JavaScript, J2EE Patterns, SQL, MVC, CVS, Saleforce.com platform, Force.com IDE - Eclipse Plug-in Education Bachelors in Computer Science in Computer Science Kathmandu University January 2012 to December 2015