Java Programmer/ Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Programmer/<span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Programmer/ Developer Topeka, KS Work Experience Java Programmer/ Developer WebSoft Nepal, Chitwan - NP May 2011 to October 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in service layer calls, invoking application-based soap calls and also handling, stored procedure calls for the backend transactions. Strong working knowledge in Core Java concepts like OOPS, OOAD, Multithreading, Design patterns. Involved in the bug tracking and Unit Testing using Junit.  • Worked with core Java concepts like JVM internals, multithreading, garbage collection etc. Involved in elaboration, construction phases and deployments of EAR files in the RUP process. Designed and Created Domain model and schema using object oriented design / UML diagrams on RSA.  • Created User Interface screens using HTML, DHTML, CSS, Java Script. Designed and developed UI Framework. The project also deployed in WAS to handle better JSP, Servlet handling. Developed Add, Edit and profile view web pages using JSP, HTML, JSP CORE tags.  • Used Spring for dependency injection for plugging in the Hibernate DAO objects for the business layer. JDBC connections are made in order to test the data connections. Created Spring Interceptors to validate web service requests and enables notifications.  • Used various design patterns like Business delegate, Singleton, Factory, DAO, DTO, Service locator etc. Parsing of XML documents was done using SAX and DOM and XML transformation was done using XSLT. Performed Inheritance based OR mappings in tables to simplify the data in Hibernate.  • Used Oracle database for SQL, PL/SQL scripts, stored procedures, functions, triggers, Oracle forms/Reports, Performance Tuning and Optimization. Also make use of the WAS application server.  • Hibernate Persistence Strategy is used for database operations and Developed Hibernate as the data abstraction to interact with the database. Deployed web services for updating the information to the workflow steps and getting the pre-configured workflow processes and invoked with RMI.  • Unit tested all the classes using JUNIT at various class level and methods level. Worked with all the test cases with testing team and also created test cases with use cases.  • Participating in resolving technical issues that arise during development  • Participating in the development of software in a variety of languages to include, but not limited to Java, PHP.  • Developing new features and maintaining existing applications project management  • Communicating and coordinating with members of development team    Environment: JDK, J2EE, Hibernate, WAS, SVN, Spring framework, Html, CSS, PHP, Xml, Web services, MySQL, Eclipse as IDE, JUNIT for testing, JSP. Education Bachelor in Computer Science Winona State University - Winona, MN 2016 to 2018 Associate in Computer Science Rochester Community and Technical College - Rochester, MN March 1981 to 2014 Skills Eclipse, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Rest, MVC, Java J2Ee, JSP, Javascript, Angularjs, J2Ee, Angular, Soap, JEE Additional Information • 2+ years diverse experience utilizing Java tools in business, Web, and client-server environments including Java Platform, Enterprise Edition ( Java EE), Enterprise Java Bean (EJB), JavaServer Pages (JSP), Spring, and Java database Connectivity (JDBC) technologies  • Used technology like jQuery, JavaScript, JUnit, AJAX, SVN, Git  • Practice the Agile Software Development process to accomplish the project task and coordinate and provide update and understand requirements with team members for DevOps model  • Strong understanding of multiple programming languages, including Java, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, XML, PHP and Python  • Thorough knowledge of Object Orient principles  • Develop and maintain Java applications with a focus on enterprise technologies  • Expertise in all parts of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) in developing web applications using JAVA, J2EE, EJB, Web services, SOAP etc.  • Expertise in Design Patterns like MVC, Singleton, Factory, Session Facade, DAO  • Excellent communications skills. Adept at building strong working relationships with coworkers and management  • Talented problem solver able to think "outside the box"  • Proven background leading teams in stressful, deadline-oriented environments    TECHNICAL SKILLS  Languages: Java, JavaScript, PHP, Python, SQL, HTML, CSS, XML  Frameworks: JSF, Spring MVC, Hibernate Struts2, Spring Boot, Grails, jQuery    Software:  Eclipse, Intellij-IDE, Microsoft Suite (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Access), NetBeans, Wamp/Mamp    JavaScript, PHP and Python    Scripting Language:  Databases: Oracle, MySQL, Database SQL command, NoSQL (MongoDB)  OS: Windows, Mac OSX and Linux  Servers: WebSphere (WAS), Sun Java Enterprise System, JES, IBM Bluemix, Apache AJAX, HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, XSD, XSLT, DTD  Internet Technologies: SVN, Git and Subversion  Version Controls: Uml Designer, Filezilla ftp  Used Tools: