Senior Full Stack Java Developer Senior Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Full Stack Java Developer - Capital One, VA Portland, OR • Having around 4 years of professional experience in software analysis, design, development, implementation, and Testing of web and distributed multi-tier applications using Java and J2EE technologies.  • Strong experience in Object Oriented Analysis in developing server side and front-end framework using J2EE design patterns and AngularJS.  • Expertise in object-oriented Enterprise Java web applications using J2EE technologies/frameworks which includes JSP, Servlets, EJB, JMS, JSF, JDBC, JavaScript.  • Hands on experience in building Enterprise Applications and Distributed Systems using technologies such as Core Java, J2EE (Servlets, JSP, JSF, EJB, Hibernate, Spring, Struts, JDBC, JMS) and XML.  • In-depth knowledge and experience in implementing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using XML based SOAP/RESTful web services. Knowledge of Software as a Service (SaaS). Developed ANT scripts and used MAVEN tool to build and deploy J2EE Applications.  • Experience in Micro Services and Spring Boot application development.  • Used various web servers like Apache Tomcat, JBOSS and WebLogic.  • Expertise in socket, collections, serialization, threads programming.  • Developed Micro services using Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud.  • Extensively worked with ORM tools (Hibernate (HQL), JPA, OJB) and JPA annotations for implementation of persistence layer and mapping of POJOs.  • Good Knowledge of using IDE Tools like Eclipse, NetBeans, IntelliJ IDEA for Java/J2EE application development.  • Experience in using version control and configuration management tools like SVN, CVS, GIT, and VSS.  • Expertise in implementing client-server business applications using Micro services.  • Experience in log management tools like log4j, Splunk generating the application usage reports.  • Efficient in using J2EE Frameworks like Struts, Restful Web Services, Hibernate, Spring Technologies.  • Hands on Experience in integration with ANT, JUnit and Log4j frameworks.  • Expertise in AngularJS controllers, directives, components, factory and service resources, routings and events. Expertise in DOM manipulation using JavaScript, jQuery and AngularJS.  • Conceived, designed, installed and implemented Puppet configuration management system. Work Experience Senior Full Stack Java Developer Capital One, VA November 2017 to Present Description: This project is to provide a range of engineering services across the entire product life cycle, starting from conception, design, development and testing, to maintenance and support - all to address specific needs as customer products mature.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on creating Single Page application (SPA) using AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap & TypeScript.  • Developed web application using Spring MVC framework and wrote code using Java, Servlets, JSP, JSF, Hibernate, Spring, JavaScript, Ajax, and JSON.  • Created test cases using Jasmine for Angular 2 functionality testing to guarantee expected results.  • Used Jackson-API for converting JSON to POJO Object and supports easy conversion to Map from JSON data  • Developed REST web services API's supporting both XML and JSON implementing Spring MVC.  • Deployed Spring boot application using Pivotal Cloud Foundry.  • Used complete annotation driven approach to develop the application using Spring Boot and was also involved in setting up the spring bean profiling.  • Developed Angular services making use of resource service to perform REST API calls to the backend.  • Made use of Pipes from Angular 2 as filters to display data nicely to users.  • Knowledge of application development for Cloud platforms using technologies like Java/J2EE, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Micro Services.  • Designed and developed browser side MVC, custom directives using AngularJS. Developed services, factory, controller, compile using AngularJS.  • Hands on experience in a Linux environment with Apache Tomcat on Amazon AWS.  • Implemented and maintained the monitoring and alerting of production and corporate servers/storage using AWS Cloud Watch.  • Developed the application using Core Java, Collections, Multithreading and Serialization.  • Developed the front end using Spring MVC framework.  • Designed and developed UML and Flow diagrams using MS Visio.  • Responsible for writing micro services using Spring Boot and Pivotal Cloud Foundry.  • Developed core Java components to build framework to support the business requirements  • Developed REST web services using spring framework and SOAP protocol based web services.  • Utilized JIRA to list tasks on the ticket system and for tracking the issues.  • Used Maven and Gradle as tools to build the web application, Web and Micro services.  • Worked on SQL PL/SQL to modify the business logic  • Involved in UAT and defect tracking using JIRA.  • Worked on Git repository to manage the source code version and releases.  • Developed RESTful Web Services using Spring Boot to provide domain data for the application.  • Developed Java Classes for implementation of Persistence of objects and Caching of Data using Hibernate.  • Extensively used JavaScript and Angular js to enforce client side validations.  • Used ANT script to compile and build the WAR.  • Implemented server side components primarily using Core Java, Multithreading.  • Developed SQL Statements as well as PL/SQL Stored Procedures.  Environment: Java1.6, J2EE, Spring, spring boot, Hibernate, MySQL, DOM, JMS, MDB, Restful, SOAP, Micro services, XML, XSD, SVN, WebSphere, Spring Tool Suite, Cloud Foundry, Jenkins, Maven, Mongo db, HTML5, CSS3, JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, Ajax, JSF, UML, JSON, Windows, AWS, MS SQL server, Mongo db, Log4j, JIRA, Selenium WebDriver, Test NG, Agile Scrum Full Stack Developer Apple, CA May 2016 to September 2017 Responsibilities:  • Followed Scrum / Agile for project implementation and involved in daily stand-up, Showcase and Retrospective meetings.  • Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and hence building type ahead feature for zip code, city and county look up using jQuery, Ajax and jQuery UI.  • Build REST web service by building Node.js Server in the back-end to handle requests sent from the front end jQuery Ajax calls.  • Used Karma and JUnit to create test cases in AngularJS to insure the right output and avoid Cross-Platform problems, and test cases for java respectively.  • Designed Frontend with object oriented JavaScript Framework like Angular.js 2.0 and Ext.js.  • Used JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, CSS3, and HTML5 as data and presentation layer technology.  • Designed the user interface of the application using HTML5, CSS3, Java Server Faces 2.0 (JSF 2.0), JSP, JSTL, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node JS, and AJAX. Coded in AngularJS MVC Framework to make single page app (spa) and complex price configurations pages.  • Developed Angular controllers, services, filters and developed HTML templates with various Angular 2 directives such as ng-app, ng-controller, ng-repeat, ng-if, ng-show, ng-hide, ng-change, ng-blur etc.  • Wrote Script for AJAX implementations in the website and created components, used jQuery for client side form validations and used JSON for creating objects in Java script.  • Involved in developing the Controller framework using Annotated REST based spring controller.  • Involved in setting up the application Service layer using Spring IOC framework.  • Worked on development of Hibernate, including mapping files, configuration file and classes to interact with the database.  • Designed and developed various modules of the application with J2EE design architecture and frameworks like Spring MVC architecture and Spring Bean Factory using IOC, AOP concepts.  • Published, consumed Web Services using REST, JAX-RS and Jersey.  • Automated test cases using Selenium WebDriver, JUnit and JAVA.  • Designed and created the database tables and wrote SQL queries, Joins, PL/SQL sub programs like stored procedures, triggers and functions to access DB2.  • Extensively used Log4J for logging in the application.  • Maven was used to manage dependencies and GIT was used for the version control.  Environment:Java1.7, Agile, JDBC, J2EE, JSP, Servlet, JavaBeans, Hibernate, EJB, Struts, Spring Core, Spring AOP, Maven, XML, SQL, PL/SQL, DB2, WebLogic, JUnit, CSS, GIT, AJAX, jQuery, JSON, Log4j, STS, Web Services, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, Apache CXF, Jersey. Java Developer HCS Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2014 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed Use Cases, High Level Design and Detailed Design documents.  • Implemented Java design patterns wherever required.  • Implemented Multi-threading concepts.  • Developed the application using Core Java, J2EE and JSP's with DB-Derby as backend.  • Responsible for change management & enhancements (major/minor).  • Interaction with customers and identified System Requirements and developed Software Requirement Specifications.  • Front end development using JSP.  • Installation and deploying in Tomcat server.  • Code reviews and PQM (Product Quality Metrics).  • Generating reports to the user in different formats like PDF, Excel.  • Developed guidelines/checklists & maintained version control to ensure the project is at CMM 5.    Environment: Java 1.6, hibernate 3, spring 3.0, quartz api, Twitter4j 2.2.1,Adobe Flex 4, Flash Builder Plugin 4.0, Adobe Flash 10, MXML, Action Script 3.0,Flex charting, BlazeDS, Flexunit, JDBC, apache-tomcat 6, eclipse 3.5, SQL Server2008, Windows Server 2008. Education Master's Skills Eclipse, Ejb, Enterprise java beans, J2ee, Java Additional Information Technical Skills:    CI/CD Pipeline Jenkins  Java/J2EE Technologies Servlets, JSP (EL, JSTL, Custom Tags), JSF, Apache Struts, Junit, Hibernate 3.x, Log4J Java Beans, EJB 2.0/3.0, JDBC.  Integration /Application Server Web logic 10g/11g/12c and Tomcat  Web Frameworks XML, XSL, XSLT, CSS, Java Script, HTML, AJAX, Web services (SOAP, WSDL),ADF, JQuery  Programming Languages Java/J2EE(Core java, JSP, Servlets) , Enterprise Java Beans, JavaScript ,SQL, PL/SQL  Development Tools Eclipse, JDeveloper 10g/11g/12c  Database Tools Oracle 10g, MySQL, MongoDB, SQL  Operating Systems Microsoft Windows, Linux, Unix