Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - nThrive Austin, TX • Over 5 years of Technical Expertise in complete Software Development Life Cycle including Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Implementation and Support.  • Highly motivated, experienced Java developer, passion for developing well-crafted, quality software that solves complex problems while working in a collaborative environment.  • Ability to dissect, understand, and utilize new and complex APIs for common business use cases.  • Ability to learn new frameworks, design patterns, architecture, programming languages and effectively relay and communicate new technologies to management and all related stakeholders.  • Expansive knowledge and research capabilities to uncover latest technology developments to employ into solutions.  • Effective communication skills to translate business requirements into actual implementation.  TECHNOLOGY OVERVIEW:    Java Enterprise Architecture J2EE, JSP, Servlet, JDBC, JNDI, JSTL, Java Beans, Apache commons, Hibernate, JPA  Spring Framework Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring Annotations, Spring RESTful, Spring Security, Spring Data JPA  Web User Interface Angular 2+, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery  Web Services Spring RESTful Web Services, JAX-RS, Jersey, JSON, XML, JWT, HTTP  RDBMS SQL, PL/SQL, T-SQL, Views, Stored Procedures  Testing and Defect Tracking JUnit, Mockito, Jasmine, JIRA, HP Quality Center, Postman  Build and Versioning Perforce, Git, SVN, Maven, npm, Jenkins, Angular CLI  Database and Servers MySQL, Oracle, SQL Server, Sybase, Tomcat, WebSphere  IDEs and Tools Eclipse, Spring Tool Suite, Visual Basic Code, WebStrom, Confluence  OS and others Windows, Linux, UNIX, Mac OS X, Shell Scripting  Design Patterns Observer, Strategy, Template, Factory, Iterator, Command, Composite, Facade, Singleton, Proxy, DAO and MVC Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer nThrive - Plano, TX March 2016 to Present Solutions Include:  * Worked with agile team in 2-week sprints to develop web services demonstrating output to stakeholders and incorporating feedback.  * Primarily involved in developing several REST web services supporting XML, JSON using Spring MVC and Spring RESTful web Services.  * Used Angular 2+, TypeScript, Bootstrap, CSS3 and HTML5 technologies to build dynamic front end components and consume REST JSON/XML responses.  * Implemented Authentication and Authorization using JWT and Spring Security.  * Develop multi-tier architecture of Controllers for request handling, service layer classes for business logic, data access objects (DAO) for data handling and data transfer objects (DTO) for transferring data between layers. Injected dependencies using spring core IOC container.  * Developed Rest client using Spring REST-Template for complex point-to-point connections.  * Used Spring Data JPA to persist data to Oracle RDBMS and for storing the history of database transaction for auditing purpose.  * Wrote SQL queries and Stored Procedures for interacting with the Oracle database.  * Used Maven scripts for automating the process of building deploying the system.  * Used JUnit, Mockito, Jasmine for unit and integration testing and Log4J to create log files.  * Designed and modeled the various component of the project, the detail documentation and use case.  * Used Git for Version Controlling and JIRA as defect tracking, Maven and npm as dependency management and build tools.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring RESTful Webservices, HTTP, Spring Security, Oracle, PL/SQL, SQL, Angular 2+, TypeScript, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, npm, Angular CLI, AJAX, JavaScript, JSON, Apache Tomcat, Eclipse, JUnit, Maven, GIT, JIRA, Log4j, Linux. Software Consultant Gamestop - Irving, TX August 2014 to February 2016 Solutions Include:  * Actively involved in Analysis, Design, Development, Integration and Testing of application modules using Agile (Scrum) methodology.  * Designed Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams and Object Diagrams, using UML to model the detail design of the application.  * Developed and integrated server components using Spring and Hibernate.  * Primarily focused on the Spring components such as Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers, Model and View Objects, View Resolver.  * Developed Web UI layer by with JSP using custom Tag Libraries, JSTL, Apache Tiles, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap and JavaScript.  * Created authentication and role-based Authorization framework using Spring Security.  * Developed POJO objects corresponding to the database schema and implemented Object-relation mapping (ORM) in the persistence layer using hibernate framework.  * Used Spring forms and Javax validations for user input, validation and error message handling.  * Developed the service classes for better data exchange between the MVC layers.  * Wrote Stored Procedures, prepared statements and views for DAO layer.  * Implemented features like logging, email service using Spring AOP.  * Use GIT for version control, HP Quality Center for defect tracking, Maven as Dependency management and build tool.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring Framework, Hibernate, Oracle, SQL, XML, HTML5, CSS3, JSP, Apache Tiles, JSTL, JQuery, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Apache Tomcat, Eclipse IDE, GIT, JUnit, Unix Education Bachelor of Science in Petroleum Engineering in Petroleum Engineering Texas A&M University - College Station, TX 2010 to 2014 Skills Spring, Java J2Ee, Java, Hibernate, J2Ee, Angularjs, Javascript, JSP, MVC, JEE, React, Angular, Rest, AWS, Core Java, Soap