Java Fullstack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Fullstack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Fullstack Developer - United Health Group Boston, MA • 8+ years of experience in software development for J2EE web-based applications  • Extensive experience in Tomcat Server, JBoss, Weblogic and WebSphere application servers  • Extensive experience in Java J2EE technologies using Core Java, Java collection, JDBC, Threads, Spring Framework, Struts Framework, Hibernate, Servlets, DHTML, CSS, JMS, JSTL, Display Tag (Custom Tag), Ajax, Java Script.  • Proven track record of coding, integrating complex technical processes within international, high-profile and tight deadline-oriented environments.  • Extensive experience of working on all tiers of J2EE n-tier Architecture.  • Proficient in designing applications using Java and J2EE Design Patterns such as Singleton, Factory, Facade, Observer, Command Patterns, Value/Data Transfer etc.  • Good web page design skills using HTML, CSS, Java Script, AJAX, and XML.  • Extensive Knowledge in Java Persistence API.  • Exposure to Software Engineering methodology like Agile methodology, Waterfall methodology.  • Responsible for coding, implementation and unit testing of various J2EE related projects.  • Worked on EJB (stateless Session, MDB, Entity Beans).    • Good Experience in implementing Web Services such as SOAP, WSDL, UDDI.  • Extensive experience in database designing using RDBMS Concepts in Oracle, MS SQL.  • Hands-on experience in writing stored procedures, functions, views, triggers and joins.  • Involved in preparing use-case, functional, technical design of the project and test case document.  • Excellent ability to quickly master the technologies and concept.  • Ability to lead a team effectively  • Expertise in database modeling, administration and development using SQL and PL/SQL in SQL Server environments.  • Excellent troubleshooting & problem solving skills with Client-Server Applications & Web Application.  • Designed Use Case Model, Use Case Diagrams, and Class Diagrams, sequence diagrams.  • Expertise in using issue tracking tools such as Quality Center and JIRA. Work Experience Java Fullstack Developer United Health Group - Boston, MA November 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in the review and analysis of the Functional Specifications, and Requirements Clarification Defects etc.  • Involved in interacting with business users and creating mock-up for user interface screens and functional design documents from requirements.  • Involved in the development of the User Interfaces (web pages) using HTML, JSP, and JavaScript.  • Used Spring Batch and Hibernate for creating batch jobs to read multiple formats of data and write it into flat file.  • Implemented Spring MVC framework to handle the request from the web pages and Hibernate to handle the Oracle database.  • Involved in development of major enhancements.  • Involved in writing web services to connect to other applications.  • Involved in the design of the Presentation Tier, Services Layer etc. for all the initiatives.  • Knowledge of the WebLogic Application Architecture.  • Involved in the development of the presentation tier using Spring framework.  • Enabled web security and protect different URL patterns within the application.  • Prepared the Technical Design Document for both Presentation Tier, as well as Middle Layer.  • Deployed the application on Apache Tomcat Application server.  • Participated in the test case reviews, and manual testing of the enhancement.  • Involved in fixing the defects during integration testing.  • Participated in the code reviews for various initiatives, Performed Static Code Analysis to follow the Best Practices for Performance and Security.  • AWS is used to coordinate and manage the delivery of messages to the subscribers. Client side validations and server side validations are done according to the business needs.  • Wrote JUNIT test cases for web servers.  • Written test cases and done Unit testing execution with JASMINE and KARMA.  • Involved with Sprint Planning, Sprint grooming, Allocation of User Stories using Jira.  • Used Log4J API for logging and debugging.  • Experience with Front-end JavaScript frameworkslikeAngularJS, Node JS.  • Developed API to Integrate with Amazon EC2 cloud based architecture in AWS, including creating machine Images.  • Developed Mean Stack from scratch including Mongo DB server (Mongoose Connector) setup and Express JS server development.  Environment: Spring Core, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Struts, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, Spring DAO, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, spring Security, Spring Integration, Vaadin, Hibernate, JSP, Oracle, PL/SQL, XML, AWS, spring web flow, Maven, JUnit, React Js, REST web service, HTML, CSS, SASS, AJAX, Jira, Angular JS Java J2ee Developer TD Bank June 2015 to October 2016 Responsibilities:  • Provided technical guidance to business analysts, gather the requirements and convert them into technical specifications/artifacts.  • Identifies, recommends and pursues technology/practices to relevant to the solution of highly complex projects.  • Designed and developed Customer registration and login screens using HTML, Servlets and JavaScript.  • Configured spring to manage Actions as beans and set their dependencies in a context file and integrated middle tier with Hibernate.  • Developed screens based on JQUERY to dynamically generate HTML and display the data to the client side.  • Extensively used JSP tag libraries.  • Designed and Developed UI using Angular.JS, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Utilized Angular.JS framework to bind HTML template (views) to JavaScript object (models).  • Created Custom Directives in Angular.JS, making use of Modules and Filters objects according to the application requirement.  • Developed views using Bootstrap components, Angular-UI and involved in configuring routing for various modules using angular UI router.  • Used Spring Security for Authentication and authorization.  • Created proof-of-concept using responsive web design, Node.js, React JS.  • Designed and developed Application based on Spring MVC Framework using MVC design pattern.  • Used Spring Core for dependency injection/Inversion of control (IOC).  • Used Hibernate Framework for persistence onto Oracle database.  • Wrote JavaScript validations to validate the fields of the user registration screen and login screen.  • Designed a network of web pages, where the user progresses through an application by selecting links, resulting in the next page being transferred to the user and rendered for their use using REST.  • Developed high-performance web applications using spring and XML Http Request.  • Configured JDBC in the application server.  • Involved in coding of Java, JDBC and Servlets interact with client and Database.  • Involved in debugging the product using Eclipse and JIRA Bug Tracking.  • Converted and automated builds using Maven and Make. Scheduled automated nightly builds using Jenkins.  • Test automation for web application using Cucumber.  • Configured and used WebLogic content management to display content in JSP view components.  • Developed UI with AJAX, DHTML and JavaScript for more interactive web pages.  • Implemented Spring MVC architecture and increased modularity by allowing the separation of cross-cutting concerns using Spring AOP.  • Deployed flow of Execution in the Servlet Environment using spring MVC and defined Navigation Rules. Environment: Java, JEE, Servlets, JMS, Hibernate, Spring, Web services, React Js, REST, UML, HTML, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, XML, XSD, Log4j, Oracle 11g, PL/SQL, JUnit, JNDI, JIRA, Cucumber. Java/J2EE Developer Liberty Mutual - Carmel, IN June 2012 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering and analyzing business requirements and converting them into technical specifications.  • Followed Agile Methodologies to produce high quality software.  • Designed and coded application components in an agile environment utilizing a test driven development (TDD) approach.  • Created detailed design documents (UML diagrams like Use case, Class, Sequence, and Component diagrams) using Rational Rose.  • Designed and developed front end using JSP, JSTL, JQUERY and other custom tag libraries.  • Used JQuery and JSF validation framework for front end validations  • Expertise in Web Page development using HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, XML, XSLT, AngularJS.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries, Struts Tag libraries and JavaScript, NodeJS, Express JS.  • Developed Business logic with the help of spring and Data Access was implemented by using Hibernate.  • Developed business process execution language processes and deployed them using Oracle SOA Suite 11g  • Used Mongo Java driver to convert java to Mongo query in the application  • Configured and used Web Logic content management to display content in JSP view components  • Used Spring framework in the development of a business bean and to interact with the Hibernate ORM tool  • Designed asynchronous messaging using JMS to exchange of critical business data and events among J2EE components and legacy system.  • Experience in implementing Web Services in-order to communicate between different distributed components using with SOAP Protocol using Apache Axis.  • Designed and developed a number of RESTful web services that support JSON for other developers to access to speed up development using Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Web Services, JSON, Log4J, RESTful, MySQL, and Maven.  • Involved in consuming, producing Restful web services using JAX-RS  • Involved in configuring and deploying the application using Web Logic, Apache HTTP.  • Provided Transaction Management using the Hibernate configurations and Involved in integrating the business layer with DAO layer using JPA  • Used Maven for building and managing dependencies of the application.  • Developed Unit /Integration test cases using JUnit and Selenium tools.  • Use Eclipse as IDE tool to develop the application and JIRA for bug and issue tracking.  • Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Jenkins and GitHub.  • Set up Jenkins server and build jobs to provide continuous automated builds based on polling the Git source control system.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Multi-threading, Jsp, Servlets, Spring MVC, JBoss, HTML, CSS, JQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap, XML, JSP, JDBC, EJB, Struts, Hibernate, JMS, JUnit, Load Runner, JMeter, Log4j, JIRA, SOA, ANT, JIRA, Jenkins, Web Logic, JSON, IBM Web Sphere, Selenium, Web Services, SOAP, REST API, Sybase, GIT, Apache AXIS, Maven. Java UI Developer Kaiser Permanete January 2011 to May 2012 Responsibilities:  • Participating in user requirement sessions to gather business requirements  • Involved in Analysis, Design, Development, Integration and Testing of application modules  • Designed and developed Class diagrams and sequence diagrams using Unified Modeling Language (UML)  • Used Eclipse 3.2 IDE for coding, debugging and testing the application modules  • Developed presentation layer for the application modules using Adobe Flex and Action Script controls  • Developed Styles, Skinning, Charts using Flex controls  • Implemented data push using BlazeDS, Remote Object, Web Service components  • Used Java Script libraries for developing the Java Script Programs  • Extensive usage of tools like SVN for Version control, Jenkins for Continuous integration, JIRA for Agile Methodologies, AutoSys for scheduling jobs. Designed the Cascaded Style Sheets for designing the styles, skinning and layouts  • Involved in writing java API for Amazon Lambda to manage some of the AWS services.  • Involved in designing the page layouts using Wire Frames templates  • Implemented AJAX base applications using DOJO and GWT API for Performance oriented and browser  • Independent application  • Implemented Event Manager, e-Distribution Admin modules using Struts-Spring-Hibernate  • Used Object/Relational mapping tool Hibernate to achieve object to database table persistency  • Written Hibernate POJO Classes, Hibernate Configuration file and Hibernate Mapping files  • Implemented Batch Updates using Spring and configured beans in Application Context file  • Used the features of Spring Core layer (IOC), Spring AOP, Spring ORM layer and Spring DAO support layer in order to develop the application  • Involved in the configuration of Struts Framework, Spring Framework and Hibernate mapping tool  • Developed the Servlets for invoking the remote notifications  • Worked on Java Messaging Services (JMS) for developing messaging services  • Implemented different types of messaging prototypes using JMS  • Implemented service oriented architecture (SOA) using Apache Axis, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI  • Used SOAP UI for testing the SOAP input and output messages  • Involved in configuring hibernate to access database and retrieve data from the database  • Used Oracle 10g as the backend database storage  • Created data base tables according to the application requirement  • Developed stored procedures and triggers with PL/SQL  • Implemented the application using Agile development methodology  • Developed Maven and ANT Scripts to do compilation, packaging and deployment in JBoss server  Environment: Java/J2ee, JSP, Servlets, Struts, Tiles, Spring, Hibernate, Adobe Flex, Action Script, Adobe Flex Builder, Cairngorm architecture, SOAP, WSDL, WS-Security, Apache Axis, SQL, MsSQL PL/SQL, CSS,  XML, XSLT, JavaScript, JBoss, IBM Web sphere MQ 5.3, Eclipse, HTML, DHTML, XML, AJAX, Maven, CVS, TOAD, Oracle 10g, UNIX, UML, Shell Scripts, Agile (Scrum), Rational Rose, JUnit, Log4j, Remedy Java Developer Cosmos Co-operative - Pune, Maharashtra June 2009 to November 2010 Responsibilities:  • Developed coding conventions and standards to enhance source code management and increase software maintainability.  • Used Spring MVC on the front end using JSP, spring tags, spring validation framework. Developed several controller classes as required for the design such as Abstract Wizard form controller, Simple Form controller, multiaction controller.  • Used JAXB for parsing XML retrieved from the database and populated on the JSP. This xml is received via RMI service call from another application.  • Used Crystal Reports on the backend for generating reports on Oracle 10g Database.  • Developed spring RMI services and web services using SOAP and applied IOC (inversion of control).  • Implemented ANT as a build system with Cruise Control for automatic builds in Development Environment and QA.  • Designed and developed reporting modules for assessing applications performance and client interaction patterns  • Developed structure diagrams, behavior diagrams and interaction diagrams during the design using rational rose.  • Used Hibernate persistence framework on the backend over Oracle 10g database.  • Used Junit Framework for Unit Testing.  • Used rational clearcase for version control.  • Used RAD for development as IDE.  • Used Log4J logging framework for logging messages with various levels written throughout the Java code.  • Involved in deploying and configuring the application on Web logic 10.  • Involved in Coding, Debugging & Code review.  • Provided development support for System Testing, User Acceptance Testing and Production support.  Environment: Java (JDK 1.6), Spring 3.0, Hibernate 3.0, BEA WebLogic 10, Web Services, DHTML, XSLT, HTML, JavaScript, RAD, Crystal Reports, SOAP, RAD, Eclipse 3.5, SOAP, XSD, XSLT, DOM parser, Servlets2.4, JSP 2.0, JAXB, Oracle 10g, Rational Rose 2000, Log 4j, Junit, Rational Clearcase. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science in Computer Science in Computer Science JNTU Skills HTML (8 years), Java (8 years), JavaScript. (8 years), JSP (8 years), JUNIT (8 years), Spring Core, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Struts, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, Spring DAO, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, spring Security, Spring Integration, Vaadin, Hibernate, JSP, Oracle, PL/SQL, XML, AWS, spring web flow, Maven, JUnit, React Js, REST web service, HTML, CSS, SASS, AJAX, Jira, Angular JS (8 years) Additional Information SKILLS    HTML (8 years), Java (8 years), JavaScript. (8 years), JSP (8 years), JUNIT (8 years)    Technical Skills:  Languages: C, C++, And JAVA  Enterprise Technologies: J2EE, EJBs, JDBC, JNDI, JMS, JSTL, Java Beans.  Web Technologies: JSP, Servlets, JSON, Java Script, AJAX, CSS, JQuery, AngularJS, React JS Java frameworks: Spring, JSF, Struts, Hibernate, JPA  Application & Web Servers: JBoss, WebLogic, Apache Tomcat.    Operating Systems: Windows, Linux, UNIX, Mac-OS. IDEs: Eclipse, IntelliJ, NetBeans.  Web services: Rest (JAX-RS), SOAP (JAX-WS)    Relational Databases: Oracle, SQL, DB2, MySQL, NoSQL databases MongoDB, Cassandra Markup Languages: HTML, XHTML, XML, and DHTML.  Build & Management Tools: ANT, MAVEN, Log4J, Clear Case, Geo Tools, CVS, SVN. Query Languages: SQL, PL/SQL.    Methodologies: SDLC, OOAD, Agile.  JavaScript Frameworks: Angular JS, Node JS, Backbone JS Testing: Junit, Selenium  Continuous Integration Tools: Hudson, Jenkins.