Sr. Android Developer Sr. Android <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Android Developer - Nationwide Insurance Chicago, IL • 8 years of IT experience in software development which includes 5 years of professional experience on Designing, Development, Testing and Implementation of Android Applications for Smartphones and Tablets. Also 3+ years of experience in Java application development.  • Strong hold on the application development with robust mobile background.  • Solid understanding of the full mobile development life cycle with a hands-on expertise with a wide variety of Android device resolutions and SDK versions.  • Experienced working within fast paced environments using Agile and Scrum development practices.  • Experience in publishing apps to Google Play Store.  • Expertise in using Design patterns like MVC & MVP.  • Experience in developing applications using Android framework APIs like Location, Camera, Animations, Maps, Speech API, Android Telephony and third-Party APIs such as ESPN, YouTube and Social Networking sites such as Facebook and Twitter.  • In-depth Knowledge on Android UI widgets like Buttons, TextViews, ImageViews, ListViews, RecyclerViews, Spinners, Layouts, Containers, Transitions etc.  • Familiar with Fragments, Activity workflow, Action Bar Navigation, Menu designs, Custom Views etc.  • Good Exposure with Android Application Components like Intent, Service, Broadcast Receiver, Content Provider and Content Resolver.  • Strong knowledge in implementing Android Multimedia Framework.  • Extensively worked on push notifications, memory leaks, multiple screen support, data offline usage, accounts and sync on Android.  • Efficient in using android libraries like Retrofit, Eventbus, Butterknife, Google GSON, OkHttp, Picasso, Proguard, Glide, ZXing, Volley etc.  • Strong working experience in RESTful web services to fetch data for the end user and parsing the XML and JSON response using different parsers.  • Excellent debugging skills using ADT tools like ADB, Logcat, Trace View and Hierarchy Viewer.  • Experience in troubleshooting production issues and Quality Assurance.  • Experience in developing test cases besides involving in Integration testing, Unit testing and User Acceptance testing extensively.  • Extensive experience in performing Test Driven Development using Junit and Automation testing tools such as Robotium, Appium, UI Automator & MonkeyRunner.  • Experience in building enterprise applications using technologies such as Core Java, Servlets, JSP, JSF, Hibernate, Spring and Struts.  • Expertise in Web-Development technologies like XML, HTML, JavaScript, jQuery and CSS.  • Excelled in database skills in SQLite, MySQL, Oracle [ ]  • Expertise in programming with SQL, PL/SQL.  • Good knowledge in Swift programming for building iOS applications.  • Worked with version control systems like SVN, Git and CVS.  • Used QC, JIRA, TFS & Bugzilla as a defect reporting and tracking tool, reviewed and analyzed test results using the result logs and reported defects using the defects module of various tools.  • A strong willingness to learn new tools & technologies and improve my knowledge.  • A team player with good communication, leadership and interpersonal skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Android Developer Nationwide Insurance - Chicago, IL March 2017 to Present Project description: Nationwide mobile app is for the Nationwide Insurance customers. This is the easiest way for the customers to manage their accounts and pay their bills. Using this application, users can also contact the near-by agents, get an auto policy quote, and start the claims process. This app is also useful in case of accidents, to call the emergency services like police, towing etc.  Responsibilities:  • Followed the Agile methodology for implementing the project.  • Used MVC pattern for developing application with Android Studio IDE.  • Used Android NDK to create the library files to be used by Services.  • Worked with Recycler Views for displaying the list.  • Implemented Overflow menus for the settings.  • Implemented Sliding Menu using Navigation Drawer for an easy flow of the application  • Responsible for consuming the REST services, getting JSON response and parsing them to get the required information.  • Implemented dependency injection framework Dagger2 to create reusable, interchangeable modules in the application.  • Designed the SQLite database to store the user information to provide the offline functionality.  • Implemented the Push Notification system for users receiving the alerts.  • Used Picasso library for loading the images and customizing them.  • Developed the app to adapt to different orientations (Landscape/Portrait) and various resolutions based on the device.  • Implemented Localization to provide region wide support for users.  • Implemented custom Web views to check out to the website in the app.  • Involved in the maintenance of the app and fixing the bugs in various modules.  • Used Git as project version controller.  Environment: Android SDK, Android NDK, Android studio, JDK 1.8, MVC design pattern, Android API's, SQLite 3.6, RESTFUL Web services, Dagger2, Picasso library, JSON, XML, GPS service, JIRA, Logcat, Windows 7, Git (version control). Android Developer Walgreens - Chicago, IL June 2015 to March 2017 Project description: Walgreens app is a pharmacy app to facilitate easy purchase of medicines. It has a well- defined feature capability such as GPS, Camera and Barcode scanner and flashlight capability. It provides the features like store locator and check product availability and pricing at any store. Users can refill the prescription by scanning the barcode. It has other features like making appointments in clinics, pill reminder, chat with pharmacy etc.    Responsibilities:  • Participated in several spaces like Designing, Enhancements, Bug-fixing, KT Sessions, and maintenance of the Application.  • Worked in Agile Environment- Participated in daily standup meetings.  • Developed App screens and its workflow using Activities and Fragments.  • Developed rich UI for the most of the modules in the application using RecyclerView, ScrollView, ViewPager and Navigation Drawer.  • Customized different widgets that include Buttons, Toasts and Dialogs.  • Responsible for consuming the REST services.  • Worked with Retrofit for handling HTTP based REST API request and response.  • Implemented the scanner functionality of the application using the ZXing (Zebra Crossing) library for Barcodes.  • Implemented Android Speech Recognition API to take the orders.  • Used Android Content providers for implementing features like sending E-mails, SMS, etc., from the app and designed suitable GUI for these applications.  • Implemented LocationManager (GPS) to find the stores and to know whether the user is inside the store.  • Implemented the Google Map and Place API to get the JSON data by restful protocol which shows the nearby stores in a specific location.  • Implemented Android Multimedia Framework for integrating audio, video and images into the application.  • Implemented Camera API to share photos and videos with the doctor.  • Used Glide library for loading the images and customizing them.  • Implemented PUSH notification using Google cloud Messaging (GCM), so that the user knows that the order is in transit  • Used SVN for Version Control.  • Implemented MVP design pattern in designing and development of this project.  • Performed on device debugging using ADB commands and tested application in device using Logcat, DDMS.  • Used Espresso framework to create automated UI tests.    Environment: Android SDK, Android studio, JDK 1.6, Android API's, MVP design pattern, SQLite 3.6, RESTFUL Web services, JSON, XML, GPS service, Glide library, Windows 7, SVN (version control), DDMS console, Logcat, ADB server. Android Developer Capital One - Wilmington, DE January 2014 to May 2015 Project description: Credit Wise is an app to track and monitor the credit score of any individual regardless of any credit card company. It maintains all the credit card accounts details like balance etc. at one place and it alerts the users about changes in the TransUnion credit score. It lets you know the factors affecting the credit score.    Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile methodology with SCRUM framework to complete the project in iterations.  • Analyzing User Stories and involved in sprint planning, scrums, demos and retrospectives.  • Used standard Android components like activities, services and created custom views for application using with navigation drawer to show the required options.  • Designed and developed View Groups, Views, and Layouts for User Interface.  • Developed UI layers with ViewPager and Fragments within the application.  • Customized the UI controls like Buttons, Tool bars etc.  • Played a key role in writing application logic using Eclipse IDE and Android SDK.  • Implemented Serializable and Parcelable objects to send across activities.  • Developed utility classes to handle Validations of user information using regex functions.  • Coordinating with Architecture group on new designs and foundational/ infrastructural application changes and Developing & Integrating mobile application code with back-end Restful web services.  • Used AsyncTask to avoid ANRs in the activity  • Worked with Fiddler, a tool used to debug & execute GET & POST API calls & Responses.  • Involved in continuous Integration, optimization and code delivery development and troubleshoot issues as required.  • Involved in performing Testing using JUnit testing and MonkeyRunner.  • Used Lint tool to test the code redundancy, usability, security and performance.  • JIRA was used for tracking and reporting of the project.  • Used Butterknife library for code optimization and maximum performance.    Environment: Android SDK, Eclipse IDE, JDK 1.6, RESTFUL Web services, Fiddler, Butterknife library, JSON, JIRA, Lint, Windows 7, CVS (version control). Android Developer Kansas City, MO November 2012 to December 2013 Project description: Swappa is a marketplace app for buying and selling of used phones, tablets, chromebooks, smartwatches etc. This app provides the safest & easiest way for purchase of almost all types of mobile devices.    Responsibilities:  • Worked in Agile Environment- Participated in daily standup meetings.  • Used Eclipse IDE to develop the screens for the application using MVC design pattern.  • Developed rich user interface of the application by making best use of the Android UI Layouts and Controls.  • Implemented various types of Layouts like Linear Layout, Relative Layout, Table Layout & Frame Layout.  • Made the best possible use of widgets like TextViews, ImageViews, Buttons, ListView, Scrollview, Progress Bar etc.  • Customized different widgets that include Buttons and ImageViews.  • Handled the Activity lifecycle and Fragment lifecycle and effectively used their lifecycle methods within the application.  • Worked on handling communication between activities and fragments using EventBus library.  • Used Shared Preferences to store User data using internal storage and maintain the user login session.  • Implementing code to display cost of devices by charts by using AchartEngine library for chart rendering.  • Fixed bugs with code, design patterns and miscellaneous occurrences during project.  • Used Universal Image Loader library for loading and caching the images of the products.  • Responsible for consuming the REST services, getting JSON response and parsing them to get the required information.  • Worked on memory management with respect to database, data loading and debugging the application using Logcat, DDMS.  • Was responsible to write the Junit test cases and to ensure always all the cases to be passed.  • Coordinated meetings with the UI and UX team to design the user interface by giving feedback about Android guidelines for developing user interfaces  • Provided production support by interacting with the end-users and fixing bugs.  Environment: Android SDK, Eclipse IDE, JDK, RESTFUL Web services, JSON, JIRA, Windows 7, SVN (version control). Java Developer Cybage Software - North, Kansas, US February 2011 to October 2012 Project description: Account Transaction System contains two modules one was for customers to access their account information online and the other was for the Deutsche bank employees, Hyderabad to perform the day-to-day transaction in bank. This system provided the facility for the customer to look up for information about his/her account status, balance, transferred the amount from one account to other, current transactions, and previous transactions.    Responsibilities:  • Participated in all the phases of the Software development life cycle (SDLC) which includes Development, Testing, Implementation and Maintenance.  • Participated in creating SRS document after gathering the requirements.  • Responsible for Development, Unit testing and implementation of the application.  • Involved in Design, UML Modeling and in developing Use Case Diagrams.  • Involved in creating Software Design documents, Technical Design & Unit testing documents  • Implemented MVC design pattern using Struts for building the application Framework.  • Handled server-side validations using Struts  • Developed presentation layer using JSP, HTML, Java Script, JQuery and CSS  • Wrote JSP using JSP Tag Libs and Form Beans for designing UI for creating Front-end Frames.  • Used JavaScript for Client-side validations in the application  • Developed Stateful session beans for account transaction module  • Developed the Java classes to execute the business logic of the application.  • Configured the Hibernate configuration files to persist the data to the Oracle Database  • Developed stored procedures and triggers with PL/SQL.  • Used CVS Version Control for managing the project code.  • Fixed defects identified during QA, UAT and Production.  Environment: Java, Struts, JSP, Tag Libs, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS, XML, JDBC, Oracle9i, Tomcat Server, Eclipse IDE, CVS, Windows 7. Java Developer 3i Infotech Enterprises May 2009 to October 2010 Project Description: Online Education Portal manages all the course related information like Course details, Course status, Video learning, Categories of learning, Quiz scores, Chat sessions etc. It gives the organization, the flexibility to update, edit and delete options for all the features of OEP. It will maintain the corresponding data and based upon that data reports are generated.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in System Analysis and Designing, participated in user requirements gathering.  • Created program specifications as per the functional requirements received.  • Writing the functional and technical design documents  • Designed application using technologies like HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Involved in design and development of Servlets and JSPs using Apache Struts framework.  • Used Spring framework to handle some of the requests to the application.  • Involved in Database design on MySQL environments and writing DDL Scripts for creating Database objects.  • Created and modified Queries whenever required for change requests/enhancements  • Configured using Hibernate for the Database connection and Hibernate Query Language (HQL) to add and retrieve the information from the database.  • Used Hibernate, a technique of mapping data representation from business logic to database with SQL based schema.  • Used Hibernate and Hibernate annotations and Java POJO to design the modeling part of the application.  • Developed actions and form beans for modules like User and Super User.  • Involved in developing user information system.  • Participated in daily stand up meetings and daily analysis with client representative.  • Involved in Deployment, Application support/maintenance and documentation  • Involved in client installation and supported change requests and enhancement.  Environment: Java, Struts, Spring, JSP, Servlets, MySQL, Hibernate, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JDBC, Eclipse IDE, Apache Tomcat, SVN, Windows XP. Education Bachelor's Skills VERSION CONTROL (6 years), UI (6 years), USER INTERFACE (6 years), ECLIPSE (5 years), ANDROID (5 years), Android SDK, Android NDK, Android studio, JDK 1.8, MVC design pattern, Android API's, SQLite 3.6, RESTFUL Web services, Dagger2, Picasso library, JSON, XML, GPS service, JIRA, Logcat, Windows 7, Git (version control). Additional Information SKILLS    VERSION CONTROL (7 years), UI (7 years), USER INTERFACE (7 years), ECLIPSE (6 years), ANDROID  (5 years)