Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - AT&T/IBM, NJ NJ • 8 years of Extensive experience utilizing Java tools in Business, Web, and client-server environments. Proficient in design and rapid development of web applications using Java/J2EE (JSP, JNDI, Servlets, RMI, Multithreading, JDBC, Exception Handling, Mutation Testing, JUNITs)  • Involved in all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle including Analysis, Design, Development, Integration, and Implementation including the collection of requirements, UI design, identification of business needs and constraints.  • Experience in Java/J2EE programming technologies like JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JavaBeans, EJB, JMS, JNDI, and Java Mail.  • Strong working experience with Spring Framework, which includes usage of IoC/Dependency Injection and different Spring modules like Core Container, Data Access/Integration, Web and AOP in Web applications  • Experience in implementing open source frameworks like Hibernate, JPA, Ibatis (ORM Frameworks) and Struts frameworks and experience in mapping Object-Oriented domain model with relational databases.  • Strong knowledge in Web Services (SOA) Big - Axis2, Axis, CXF, JAX-WS and Restful - Jersey (JSR-311 JAX-RS API) application development.  • Fluid understanding in Rich Internet application component development using jQuery, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, Angular JS, Backbone JS and Node JS.  • Extensive experience in implementation of the version control software VSS, CVS, SVN, Git and Clear Case.  • Worked with Object Oriented project life-cycles, iterative process like Agile (Scrum, Kanban), Waterfall, Extreme Programming, Test Driven Development methodologies.  • Experience in developing Enterprise Applications using Eclipse 2.x/3.x/4.x, NetBeans 5.x/6.x, Edit plus.  • Extensive work experience in XML parsing & data binding using JAXB, JiBX, XML Beans, SAX, STAX, DOM and other bindings such as JSON  • Efficient in software engineering skills in generating design and architecture artifacts using UML, IBM Rational Rose and RUP process.  • Developed and deployed applications on UNIX, LINUX and Windows platforms.  • Experience in database development and implementation and proficient in PL/SQL, SQL programming to create objects like tables, views, functions, triggers, queues and stored procedures packages in Oracle10g/9i/8i, MS SQL server, and MySQL. Experience in working with the Columnar NoSQL Database like HBase, Cassandra to manage extremely large data sets.  • Good Exposure to industries like Banking/Investment, Fuel Rewards, Health Care and Service Sector.  • Experienced in code audit, performance testing and application tuning using  • Excellent interpersonal and communication skills, creative, research-minded, technically competent and result-oriented with strong problem solving and leadership skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer AT&T/IBM, NJ August 2015 to Present Project: Web Services Traffic Report  This project to store the incoming web services messages into the database and then make it available to the user to view it.  Responsibilities:  • As a Full Stack developer involved in back-end and front-end developing team. Took part in designing, building, maintaining, reviewing and supporting quality code and services.  • Designed and implemented a Single Page Application in Angular JS and Spring framework using Agile methodology and Test Driven Development.  • Participated in code review sessions and system design discussions. Interacted with Product Managers to fine tune user stories and with testing team to approve Functional Specification and test cases.  • Created new RestFul web services using Spring MVC framework using JSON data format.  • Configured interceptors for transaction management and logging using Spring AOP.  • Involved in the development of the UI using JSP, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS. Worked on JavaScript framework (Backbone.JS) to augment browser based applications with MVC capability.  • Responsibility of maintaining and developing server-side code with JavaScript and Node.js runtime environment.  • Developed end-to-end composite RESTful Web Services by using SOA with CXF framework to use with different clients including Web & Mobile. Designed and developed Rest Webservices for Iphone and android mobile web sites and apps.  • Used Hibernate and JPA ORM frameworks for database connectivity. Designed OAUTH framework for authorization flow for web services.  • Configured database with hibernate.cfg.xml & database mapping with hbm.xml  • Implemented application level persistence using Hibernate and Spring.  • Wrote Jasmine Unit tests extensively using Karma for verifying JavaScript utility routines.  • Used ANT scripts to build the application and deployed on Weblogic Application Server 10.0.    Environment: Java 1.6, Java EE, Eclipse, JMS, Jersey RESTful framework, Spring, Spring MVC, Magnolia CMS, JPA, Hibernate, Log4J, JUnit, Mockito, Ant, Gradle, Emma, Sonar, Jenkins, MySQL, CRUD, XML. Senior Java Developer Macy's - Atlanta, GA January 2014 to July 2015 Description: Project (LIST) is about the customers who are interested in buying on Macys.com can add products to their wish list. The LIST has a UI component and a Services component. LIST UI manages users to add product level items, UPC level items and unavailable products. LIST Services manages adding products to the wish list and performs back end operations like merging the guest user profile to profile user at the time of adding products to wish list.    Responsibilities:  • Used JIRA Agile for project management and bug tracking.  • Used Drupal platform for developing cross browser compatible websites using agile, scrum methodologies.  • For the development of UI, we followed the Model-View-Controller architecture for the site.  • Involved in the application development using Spring Core, Spring Roo, Spring JEE, Spring Aspectmodules and Java web based technology Java Web Services (REST/SOA)  • Involved in development of distributed objects like EJBs (session beans), Business objects/Domain objects that fit into the architecture and various components and helper classes that were commonly used throughout the application.  • Used XML parser APIs such as JAXP (SAX) and JAXB in the web service's request response data  • marshalling as well as unmarshalling process.  • Used AngularJs and jQuery to make the pages dynamic and two way data binding.  • Implemented AJAX functionality using jQuery, JSON and XML.  • Construction of UIs using jQuery, Backbone.js, Bootstrap and JavaScript.  • Developed the CRUD API for the POSEngine using Restful WebServices.  • Developing and maintaining a single-page application using Backbone.js for front-end server side layer, HTML5 and CSS3 to deliver rich user experience.  • Written Blossom controllers (Spring), for all the pages.  • Extensively used Spring IOC, spring's Hibernate support, transaction management.  • Design and develop SOA enterprise solution with Talend Open Studio, Apache Karaf and Camel.  • Created/managed Mongo DB/NoSQL collections. Developed Server side automation using Node.js scripting and connecting different types of SQL and NoSQL stores.  • Deployed and tested on WebSphere application server  • Used SVN and Git as version control systems. Involved in writing Jasmine tests. Used Karma and protractor for end to end testing    Environment: J2EE 1.5, JDK 1.5, HTML5, CSS3, JSP, EJB3.0, Spring, Hibernate ORM, JSP, WebSphere application server, Eclipse, Backbone.js, Node.js, Magnolia 5.4, Blossom 3.1, jQuery, AngularJs, WLST, bash, korn. Java Developer USAA - San Antonio, TX January 2013 to December 2013 Bulk Order Generator is a web based sales order system. It supports and allows users to create different order types i.e. New, Change, Record and Disconnect orders. Orders being entered are sent to Billing through message queuing interface. BOG handles bulk orders that are sent asynchronously over MQ Series Message Queue. BOG uses JMS for locating the Queue Managers and communicating with them.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in preparing the Detailed Design document for the project.  • Use Case documentation for all the features in the project.  • Used Agile SCRUM process with Test Driven Development process form development phase to testing phase.  • Designed the sequence diagrams and class diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Created tile definitions, struts-config files, and validation files for the application using Struts framework. Implemented Action Classes and Action Forms using Struts framework.  • Configured struts-config.xml and web.xml struts-specific deployment descriptor  • Taken care of Java multithreading in common java classes / library. Used multithreading in programming to improve overall performance.  • Worked with AngularJS MVC framework using controllers, filters and complex directives.  • Used Backbone.js to update DOM and developed various UI components using Struts, JSP, and HTML, CSS.  • Developed Session Beans as part of EJB to handle business logic and deployed them on Tomcat application server. Hands-on experience on developing entity beans.  • Developed parser classes to parse the input XML and populate the appropriate data objects.  • Use MySQL extensively by developing different tables and ran SQL queries on them. Also developed stored procedures using callable statements and created triggers and functions based on the project requirements.  • Implemented WebServices to integrate between different applications (internal and third party components) using RESTFul services using Jersey.  • Developed and deployed WebServices in Apache CXF framework using JAX-WS and JAX-RS.  • Developed Java classes that used JMS to communicate with the Queue managers.  • Used Git Repository for version control, Jenkins for deployment and used Karaf container.    Environment: Agile Scrum JDK 1.4, HTML, CSS, JSP, JMS, J2EE, XML, Tomcat, Struts 1.2 Framework, Hibernate, EJB, JDBC, MySQL 4.1.x, RESTful services and API, Jersey, backbone.js, Rational Rose, UML, NetBeans 4.0, Eclipse, Windows, XP, JMS, UNIX, Angular JS Java/J2EE Developer Emblem Health - New York, NY January 2011 to September 2012 Responsibilities:  • Participated in Requirements gathering, Analysis, and Design and Development phases of the project with major emphasis on Development of the modules.  • Interacted with business users and testing team to develop requirements, use cases, class and sequence diagrams, Functional Specification, Database Design, Program Specification and project and test plans.  • Implemented Agile Scrum Process in the form of daily standup meetings and pair programming.  • Created Spring MVC Controllers, Spring MVC-REST based JSON services.  • Used Content management tools like Drupal for Job Track module and WordPress for plug-in  • architecture.  • Used Spring security framework for authentication security flow and permission security flows.  • Worked extensively with Java including Threads, collections, Servlets  • Worked with JAX-RS, SOAP, JAX-WS to create Web Services and consuming the existing services  • Developed and maintained the client-side application using JSP, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Consumed Rest Based Services from AngularJs with HTTP services.  • Responsible for data validation on the Client side by using JavaScript.  • Developed, deployed worked on UNIX OS with extensive UNIX shell scripting.  • Used custom tag libraries for the structured display of the screen.  • Used ORM Hibernate for mapping Entities: one-to-one, one-to-many, many-to-many, cached data using EHCache.  • Developed Ibatis mappings and configurations and used Ibatis as a persistence layer to connect the application to the database.  • Used Oracle SQL Developer for development of database, accessing tables, creating stored procedures and back-ups. Used Log4j for logging and tracing API. Developed pom.xml for the build of the application using Maven.  • Developed web services, SOAP message envelopes and headers using WSDL, UDDI, XML and JAXP.  • Extensively used Rational Clear case for version control.  • Developed the application on Websphere using Websphere Integration Developer 6.0.  • Used Mercury Quality Center as bug tracking tool.    Environment: Websphere 6.1, Spring 2.5.x, Spring MVC, Java 6.0, JQuery 1.4, AJAX, JSTL, XML, XSLT, Ibatis, Hibernate ORM, Java Script, AngularJs, JSP 2.0, JUNIT 4, JAX-WS, Multi-Threading, Websphere Integration Developer 6.1, Oracle 10g, SQL Developer 1.2.1, Rational Clear Case 7.0.1.5, Mercury Jr. Java/J2EE Developer HSBC Global Technology - Pune, Maharashtra February 2009 to December 2010 The company was looking for new business avenues, wanted to increase the customer based attractive more investments. It has different customers provided with different types of loans. In order to provide better service for their existing customers and to come up with different plans for their existing customers, this whole system of banking is divided in to modules based category (deposits, Loans, Customer account management, and security)  Responsibilities:  • High Level Designing (HLD), Low Level Designing (LLD) using UML  • Designed components for company's object framework using best practices and J2EE design patterns such as Model-View-Controller (MVC), Data Access Object, Value Object, and Business Delegate.  • Actively participated in the complete life cycle of development, from the design phase to implementation Phase.  • Creating use cases, class diagrams, activity diagrams and collaboration diagrams.  • Responsible for environment setup in LINUX environment. (DEV, QA)  • Played a key role in the development of server-side functionality of handling the requests and responses using Java Servlets.  • Created Data Access Object (DAO) which is used by the Hibernate API calls to interact with the database.  • Worked on backbone.js and jQuery to develop outsourced UI.  • Analysis and Design of the Object models and Design Patterns in various tiers of the application.  • Designed and implemented WebServices calls for service provider methods.  • Developed and flexible, scalable, utilizing open source technologies like Hibernate ORM and Spring Framework.  • Played an active role in testing the application by writing test cases for different scenarios.  • Used JUnit testing tool to test the code.  • Study existing system and incorporate/suggest changes. Involved in developing new functionality as per the needs of the users. Wrote product documents including installation and user guide.    Environment: JSP, Servlets, Spring framework, SOA, MVC, Java Beans, Webservices, JDBC, Hibernate ORM, Hibernate API, Weblogic, Linux, Oracle 10g, backbone.js, jQuery, JUnit. Education Technology Kakatiya University Warangal - Warangal, Telangana