Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Atlanta, GA • 8 plus years of Java Development Experience that includes Analysis, Design, Development, documentation, Implementation, testing phases of Enterprise, Client/Server, Web based and system level applications in Java, J2EE, J2SE technologies.  • Expert in Test Driven Development (TDD) and Behavior driven development (BDD) methodologies  • Strong experience in SDLC with Waterfall, Iterative, Agile(Scrum) Methodologies (TDD) for Object Oriented applications and web based Enterprise Applications.    • Experience in Analysis and Design including OOAD techniques and knowledge of design patterns.  • Involved in UML Modelling (unified process), Entity Relationship diagrams, Class diagrams, Use Case diagrams, Sequence diagrams, Data flow diagrams using UML2.0, Rational Rose and Microsoft Visio.  • Experience in MVC architecture using JSP Servlets, J2EE Design Patterns, Struts, Spring Framework (Spring MVC/IOC/ORM/AOP/Security/Boot).  • Hands-on experience with Spring IOC, Spring Framework(MVC) 2.x/3.x/4.x, Struts Framework, Spring JMS template, Spring Web flow, Spring AOP, Spring JDBC templates, Spring Boot, Spring security and Spring transactions.  • Experience in building Microservices with the help of Spring Boot and developed Spring based applications with very less configuration.  • Experience on working with Hibernate for mapping the java objects to relational database and SQL queries to fetch the data, insert, delete and update the data from the database.  • Have good knowledge of JDBC connectivity.  • Experience with XML technologies like XML, DTD, XSD, XSLT, JAXP (DOM & SAX), and JAXB.  • Good knowledge in implementing JAVA/JEE design patterns such as MVC, Singleton, Factory Business Delegate, Data Access Object, Front Controller, Service Locator, Session Façade and Transfer Object.  • Good knowledge in using Java 8 enhancements like functional programming, Lambda expressions, Parallel Streams API to achieve high productivity.  • Expertise knowledge in implementing Core Java concepts along with strong understanding Garbage Collector, Collections, Multithreading, Concurrency, Event handling, Synchronization, Data Structures, Streams & File I/O Exception handling and Generics.  • Experience in developing enterprise applications using RMI, EJB, JMS, ActiveMQ, JPA, JDBC, JTA.  • Have good understanding of JSP, Servlets, JSF, JSTL, EJB transaction implementation (CMP, BMP, Message-Driven Beans), JMS, Struts, Spring, Swing, Hibernate, Java Beans, JDBC, XML, XSLT, JAXB, SQL, PL/SQL etc.  • Worked with SOAP based web services using WSDL, SOAP, JAXB, CXF, AXIS, JAX-WS and Restful web services using JAX-RS, CXF and JERSEY APIs.  • Used SOA Architecture to Develop SOAP Webservice, generated WSDL and consume the services.  • Experience in development and implementation of Restful Web Service as a Provider and consumer using messaging medium as JSON and implemented Soap based web services, WSDL and UDDI using XML over HTTP(s), SOAP, WSDL, Restful protocols.  • Experience in using JAXB, JAXP parsing and XML Bean to process, validate, parse and extract data from XML files.  • Experienced in developing UI technologies like JSP, Servlets, JSTL Filters, Listeners XML HTML, HTML5, CSS3, JSON, JavaScript / jQuery, Ajax, Design Patterns, XSL/XSLT, Angular JS, Node JS including the use of frameworks such as Bootstrap.  • Expertise in Web-Development technologies like Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JDBC, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, XML, XSL/XSLT, AJAX, JNDI, jQuery.  • Experience in deploying web and J2EE enterprise applications on Apache Tomcat, Web logic, JBoss, IBM Web sphere application servers and IBM Web Sphere ESB (Enterprise Service Bus).  • Experience in using Apache Cassandra for high performance of an application.  • Hands on experience in HQL, Transactions, Exceptions, JMS, JTA, MQ.  • Worked with various IDE tools like Eclipse, Net Beans, RAD, IntelliJ, Android Studio.  • Created session EJB and message driven bean (MDB) to process JMS XML messages and developed various EJBs (session and entity beans) for handling business logic.  • Experience in version control systems like CVS, SVN and GIT for maintaining a platform between various applications.  • Experience in using Log4j to identify the errors in production test environment.  • Experience in Ant, Maven, and Gradle tools for creating build scripts.  • Worked with JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking and defect tracking tools like Clear Quest, Quality Center.  • Extensive experience in design and development of database systems using Relational Database management systems like Oracle, DB2 MYSQL, MYSQL server and No-SQL databases technologies including Cassandra, Mongo-DB and programming with technologies like SQL, PL/SQL  • Proficient in writing Stored Procedures, Functions, DDL and DML SQL queries.  • Experience using Jenkins tool for building CI/CD pipeline.  • Knowledge of software testing tools as Cucumber-JVM, Selenium tools.  • Knowledge of continuous code quality tools SonarQube.  • Experience in using NoSQL database MongoDB.  • Good Knowledge with migration to AWS from Datacenter.  • Good Knowledge on Amazon Web Services (EC2, S3, DynamoDB, RDS, Elastic Load Balancing, SQS, SNS, IAM, Cloud Watch, EBS), using the Elasticsearch APIs (Document, Search, Indices, Cluster, etc.) , High Availability Practices and deploying backup/restore infrastructure.  • Knowledge in AWS infrastructure on various resources EBS, Security Group and Auto Scaling in Cloud Formation JSON templates and some internet technologies including TCP/IP and HTTP.  • Good knowledge on Apache Kafka.  • Good knowledge on Apache Camel.  • Knowledge on Jasper reporting tool.  • Experience with using Testing to automate the unit tests while using the Selenium to perform browser integrity and unit test automation.  • Experienced in writing unit test cases, implement unit test classes using JUNIT and Mockito and Performed manual testing on web services using Soup UI  • Knowledge in AngularJS controllers, views, and services for new website features.  • Used AngularJS filters for search, sorting, pagination and custom filters.  • Have knowledge on the server-side scripting using Node.JS to develop the applications, which are data intensive real-time applications that run on distributed devices and to use Node.JS to establish the connectivity between database and client. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java/J2EE Developer wipro - Atlanta, GA January 2016 to Present Description: InComm is the industry leader in gift card business. Generation of Inventory for all InComm Transaction processing systems. The project mainly to implement Manage User requests, generators user data, build rule actions allows user access to generated inventory.    Responsibilities:  • Worked in Agile environment and attended Daily Scrum meetings.  • Involved in all the phases of SDLC including Requirements Collection, Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications, Development & Customization of the Application.  • Designed responsive web pages using the UI technologies using HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSON, Angular JS 2.0, Bootstrap, CSS3, NodeJS, jQuery, Ajax, XSL/XSLT.  • Used Angular JS 2.0 in the frontend to reduce the load and achieve speed using 2-way databinding and event handling.  • Worked with Core Java technologies like Multi-Threading, Collections and synchronization.  • Used Spring MVC and Hibernate ORM to map Java classes to data base tables using various annotations and POJO classes.  • Involved in implementation of Spring MVC using Angular JS 2.0, JavaScript, and Spring Controller.  • Worked with Spring Boot for implementing the application and used Spring Security for security purpose.  • Used JMS API to create, send, receive, and read messages to main asynchronous.  • Solved various challenges regarding error handling and strictly typed coding practices.  • Used custom tags, JSTL to support custom User Interfaces.  • Implemented JNDI for naming and Directory Services.  • Used Spring AOP for exceptions logging along with log4J.  • Used Microservices architecture for high performance.  • Worked with version control GIT to manage the code repository. Merging and Branching using push pull commands were implemented through git.  • Successfully performed the RESTful APIs Integration using Jersey for JAX-RS implementation and developed an API wrapper for reusability.  • Worked with JMS for asynchronous communication on the Rabbit MQ messaging system.  • Used JIRA tool for bug tracking, fixes, task assignment.  • Used RAD as IDE for the application development and integration of the frameworks.  • Utilized JUnit and Mockito for testing components.  • Used MAVEN as build tool for the application and auto deploying it to the environment.  • Produced RESTful Web Service server with spring, set JSON data type between front-end and the service layer.  • Defect tracking and issue resolution Documentation (logged in JIRA) for support turnover weekly status reporting to client  • Designed publish and subscription of messages using Apache Kafka for routing messages to right target systems.  • Analyzed, designed and implemented Oracle 11g database using connection pool.  • Experience on Java 8 features like functional programming, Lambda expressions Parallel Streams to achieve high productivity.  • Used the Docker for Container as a service and pulled an image from the existing Docker hub.  • Experience on Amazon Web Services cloud based instances such as EC2, etc. for use on current and upcoming projects.    Environment: Java, Java Beans, J2EE, REST, Testng, JSP, XSD, XML Beans, Tomcat, Eclipse, Multithreading, Collections, Spring 3.x/4.x, Spring Annotations, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Dependency Injections, Hibernate 4.x, RESTful Webservices, HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSON, D3, Angular JS, Bootstrap, NodeJS, JNDI, JSTL, AWS, Microservices, JMS, PL/SQL, Oracle 12g, WebSphere application server, Selenium, JUnit, Mockito, JIRA, Jenkins, Git 2.0- Stash, Maven 3.3.9, Plugin Management. Sr. Full Stack Java Developer Kentucky Mutual Insurance - Lexington, KY April 2014 to December 2015 Description: Kentucky Employers' Mutual Insurance is the largest provider of workers' compensation insurance in Kentucky, providing coverage to more than 23,000 policyholders in all 120 counties of the state. Their application enhances system to fulfill user needs and business policies and claims services to their policyholders.    Responsibilities:  • Developed application using Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Angular JS and SOAP/REST webservices.  • Worked on Agile Methodology, involved in daily Scrum meetings, sprint planning and product backlogs.  • Involved in business meetings with clients and code review meetings with team members.  • Written Hibernate POJO classes and integrated Spring with Hibernate for processing business needs.  • Developed model components using session beans and used MDB to interact with session using EJB.  • Implementation of the Business logic layer for MongoDB Services.  • Used Apache Cassandra database for scalability and high availability without decreasing the performance  • Used Annotations in Spring to configure beans.  • Created XML for deployment descriptors and integrated to validation files.  • Involved in the development of SOAP and REST Web Services and consumed some Web Services from external application.  • Implemented and maintained the monitoring and alerting of production and corporate servers/storage using AWS Cloud watch.  • Generated the web services classes by using SOA.  • Described the location of the web services server and its functionality in WSDL.  • Developed the user interface with JQuery framework which included HTML manipulation, CSS and AJAX (for updating parts of webpage without reloading it)  • Written custom filters and directives for the HTML5 using AngularJS code.  • Modified Oracle database with the use of JDBC managed by Hibernate.  • Written Unit Test Cases for all the developed use cases and did integration testing using Junit.  • Used Log4j for logging, debugging and tracking.  • Used Eclipse as the Java IDE in the development of the application.  • Used SoapUI for functional testing of web service.    Environment: Java1.7, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Spring3.0, EJB, JMS, Hibernate, XML schemas, CSS, Angular JS, JavaScript, HTML5, XML, WebLogic, AWS, JUnit, Log4j, AJAX, SOAP/REST Web, Oracle10g, Agile, SOAP, Ajax. Full Stack Java Developer Sun Medical Systems - Longmont, CO October 2012 to March 2014 Description: Developed a web application which is accessed by both Physicians and Patients. The Physicians have details about finding out the patient's history sheets etc., and the patients use this for fixing appointments with the doctors and the insurance information. Also, patients can utilize the website based on their requirement and receive information regarding their health and the latest treatment available.    Responsibilities:  • Worked in Waterfall environment and attended Daily Scrum meetings.  • Involved in the analysis, design/development and testing of SDLC.  • Designed Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams and Object Diagrams, using IBM.  • Rational Rose to model the detail design of the application.  • Used Spring Framework for rapid development and ease of maintenance. Designed and developed EJBs to handle business logic and store persistent data.  • Developed the application using Spring Framework. Developed action classes, form beans and Java Server Pages.  • Developed a web-based reporting for credit monitoring system with HTML, CSS, JSTL and custom tags using Spring framework.  • Developed GET and POST REST calls on creating, updating, activating, deactivating users and implemented required methods  • Used JAXB API to bind XML schema to java classes.  • Used Spring Framework to integrate O/R mapping tool Hibernate.  • Tested the application functionality with JUnit Test Cases.  • Developed logging module-using Log4J to create log files to debug as well as trace application.  • Used CVS for version control.  • Worked on database using Entity Relational diagrams.  • Extensively used Maven as a build tool.  • Deployed the applications on JBoss Application Server.    Environment: Core Java, J2EE, Spring 4.0 Framework, Hibernate3.0, JSP, Servlets, PL/SQL, REST Web Services, JavaScript, jQuery, JBoss7.x, XML, JUnit, HTML5, CSS3, UML, JIRA, Oracle 11g, Eclipse IDE. Sr. Java Developer Wells Fargo - Des Moines, IA November 2010 to October 2012 Responsibilities:  * Working on application architecture and re-design of different parts of the application.  * Developed database persistence layer components for mapping an object-oriented domain model to the relational database using ORM framework such as Spring JDBC Support, Hibernate and JPA. Worked in Agile mode and interacted closely with the product owner and business team.  * Setup a new clear case project and ANT scripts and owned the deploy process. Built Single page application (SOA) using AngularJS as per the requirement.  * Optimize the cost of application development and maintenance by using economies of scale under a SLA governed process.  * Worked with Apache Lucene and SOLR for searching the person and business details. Design and development of the BPM for various synchronous and asynchronous processes and to implement the workflow of the applications  * Using SpringBoot which is radically faster in building MicroServices and develop Spring based application with very less configuration.  * Written Stored Procedures, functions, SQL queries and backend programming using Oracle, SQL.  * Developed presentation tier web components using JSF framework and deployed the application in web server.  * Expertise in application development using JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JNDI, spring, Hibernate, Ibatis, Mybatis, JSF, EJB, XML, Web Services- SOAP, WSDL.  * Implemented MVC architecture using JSF framework using JSPs as GUI development and DB Modeling using NOSQL and Oracle 10g.  * Performed client side validations using JavaScript and Struts validation framework.  * Performing Impact Analysis, Design, and Estimations for the enhancements to the applications.  * Impact Analysis, Design, and Estimations for the enhancements to the applications.  * Interacted with the business users to gather requirements and provided high-level design with Sequential and State-chart diagrams.  * Built workflow based applications using JBPM workflow engine and designed workflow in JBPM editor, use provided api's in JBPM engine to run business functions. Developed business processes/work flow and rules using JBoss BPM/Rules  * Implemented various J2EE design patterns like DAO pattern, Business Delegate, Value Object.  * Developed Business components and Services using EJB3.0, JPA and JAX-WS and deployed them in Business tier application server.  * Developed various Land registry office user interfaces, Model Beans and DAO using JSF Framework.  * Have written Unit Test Cases and Integration Test Cases using Junit framework.    Environment: Core Java, J2EE JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Collections, Generics, JUnit, Solr, Lucene, Struts, Spring, AWS, JBPM, Hibernate, Microservices, Eclipse, WebLogicApplication Server 5.0, UML, SQL, NOSQL, Oracle 10g, Agile, Maven, SVN, ClearQuest. Core Java Developer SBI bank - Hyderabad, Telangana November 2008 to October 2010 Description: SBI Bank provides funds or loans to people with small business requirements. Applicants get their loans sanctioned based on their credit history. The applicant information is maintained in a database along with the details of the loan for repayment. This data is filtered into distinct categories based on parameters like type of account, loan amount, due date. The filtered data is used for statistics for generating reports.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in prototyping, proof of concept, design, Interface Implementation, testing and maintenance.  • Created use case diagrams, sequence diagrams, and preliminary class diagrams for the system using UML/ Rational Rose.  • Designed and developed the persistence tier using Hibernate framework.  • Designed and developed front view components using JSP and HTML.  • Involved in developing various reusable Helper and Utility classes using Core Java, which are being used across all the modules of the application.  • Implemented Core Java concepts like Polymorphism, Inheritance, Multithreading etc  • Developed reusable utility classes in core java for validation which are used across all modules.  • Developed Java classes for implementing Business logics using EJB (Stateless session, entity, message driven beans).  • Deployed and tested the application with web server Tomcat, WebSphere.  • Developed Interactive web pages using AJAX and JavaScript.  • Configured and tested the application with database server Oracle 10g and MySQL.  • Helped in database design and tuning. Created stored procedures, Views in the Database.    Environment: JDK 1.4, Core Java (Multithreading, Collections), JSP, JSTL, Servlets, EJB 3.0, XML, HTML, Java Script, AJAX, SOAP, WSDL, UML, JDBC, Shell Scripting, JUnit, log4j, JMS, Apache Tomcat, WebSphere Application Server, Oracle 10g Database, Windows NT, Unix/Linux. Education Bachelor's Skills data base (9 years), Java (9 years), JSP (9 years), JUnit (9 years), XML (9 years), Java, Java Beans, J2EE, REST, Testng, JSP, XSD, XML Beans, Tomcat, Eclipse, Multithreading, Collections, Spring 3.x/4.x, Spring Annotations, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Dependency Injections, Hibernate 4.x, RESTful Webservices, HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSON, D3, Angular JS, Bootstrap, NodeJS, JNDI, JSTL, AWS, Microservices, JMS, PL/SQL, Oracle 12g, WebSphere application server, Selenium, JUnit, Mockito, JIRA, Jenkins, Git 2.0- Stash, Maven 3.3.9, Plugin Management., Rest, Java J2Ee, Spring, Hibernate, J2Ee, JEE, Angularjs, Javascript, MVC, AWS Additional Information SKILLS    data base (8 years), HTML (8 years), Java (8 years), JSP (8 years), JUnit (8 years)    ADDITIONAL INFORMATION TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages JAVA, C, SQL, PL/SQL, UML  J2EE Technologies EJB2.0/3.0, Java Servlets, JDBC, JCA, JTA, JNDI, JPA, JSP, JSTL, JSF, JMS,  Frameworks  Spring (Dependency Injection, Spring MVC, Spring Core, Spring Context, Spring AOP, Spring DAO, Spring IOC, Spring JDBC, Spring with Hibernate), Hibernate, Struts  Angular JS, NodeJS, ReactJs, Ext.JS, Express JS    Web Technologies HTML-5, DHTML, CSS, XML, JSON Scripting Languages jQuery, AJAX.  IDE's Eclipse, IntelliJ IDEA, IBM RAD and NetBeans.  Database [ ] NoSQL, MongoDB, DynamoDB, Cassandra, MicrosoftSQL Server, MySQL Clouds AWS (EC2, S3, EBS, RDS, Bean Stack, EFS, ECS, AMI, R53 ETC), Azure  XML Technologies XML, XSL, XSLT, SAX, XSD, XML-DOM, Castor, XML Beans and JAXB Design Tools MS Visio, Rational Rose Enterprise.  Version Control Systems GIT, SVN, CVS, Amazon Code Commit. Servers [ ] [ ] WebSphere7.0, JBoss AS 4.2, Wild fly and Apache AXIS Logging Tools Log4j, SLF4J, JDBC logger.  Build Tools Maven, Gradle, Ant  Unit Testing Junit, Mockito, Jasmine, Selenium, JTest, Cucumber Web Services REST, WSDL, UDDI, SOAP, Apache CXF  MS Office MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint, MS Access  Operating Systems Windows XP/Vista/7/8/10, RHEL6.0-7.4, [ ] Mac, Solaris, CentOS, AMI-Amazon Linux.