Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Full Stack Developer - PNC Bank Edison, NJ • Over 8+ years of experience in Object-Oriented Analysis, Design, Development and testing of Client/Server, Web based enterprise business applications.  • Expert in various Agile methodologies like SCRUM, Test Driven Development(TTD), Incremental and Iteration methodology,Agile Development & Testing using Software Development Life Cycle(SDLC).  • Experience in Java8 features like Lambda expressions, Stream API, predicate functional interface, etc.  • Experience in implementing Java EE design patterns such as MVC, Singleton, Factory, Session Facade, DAO, DTO, and Business Delegate in the development of multi-tier distributed enterprise applications.  • Experience in developing multi-tier distributed web applications usingJava, JEE,Servlet, JSP,JBDC,EJB3.2,JMS,Struts, Hibernate3.2/4.x, Spring 3.x/4.x,SOAP and REST based Web services (Axis2.0, JAX WS 2.0, JAX RS), Rule Engines (Drools4.1, ILOG), JBPM tools.  • Experienced in UI frame works such as JQuery, Ajax, Google Web Toolkit (GWT), JavaScript, Node.js, Angular.js, Angular 2, Angular 4, ReactJs, VueJS, BackboneJS, Tag Libraries, Custom Tags.  • Experience in developing Web-centric applications using XML,Angular.js,XSD,JSON, JavaScript, Ajax, jQuery, CSS3, HTML5, Bootstrap.  • Extensive experience in working over Web Services with WSDL, SOAP and RESTFUL web services  • WebLogic and Tomcat Administrator experience, with knowledge in clustering, JMS, Connection Pools, J2EE Deployments, Thread Dump Analysis.  • Experience in Spring Framework modules such as Spring MVC, IOC, AOP, JDBC, JTA, IO, SpringDashboard, Spring Boot, Spring Microservices, Spring REST, Spring Eureka, Spring Ribbon, Spring Netflix, Spring Zuul Proxy.  • Deployed the Application into Docker container and made easily accessible at runtime using Pivotal Cloud Foundry and other cloud services like AWS, Netflix Eureka, Spring Hystrix as fallback method, Spring Ribbon for load balancing and a broker service to maintain status using Spring Kafka and Zookeeper.  • Experience in Spring Security Framework for User Access Management and involved LDAP configuration for authentication, authorization. Implementing Spring Cloud- REST call using Netflix Feign Client.  • Experience in Microservices-Spring Boot, Pivotal Cloud Foundry and Engagement using Spring Boot.  • Experienced in Middleware persistence frameworks like Hibernate/JPA Entities for mapping Java classes using Hibernate Query Language (HQL), HSQL Named Queries, Criteria, Projections.  • Expertise in development applications using Type safe technologies like Scala, Akka model, Play framework.  • Proficient in using Amazon Web Services (AWS)services like EC2, Elastic Beanstalk, CloudWatch, CloudFront, Cloud Formation, IAM, S3, RDS, ElastiCache, SNS, SQS, AMI.  • Experience in Integration tools Oracle SOA Suite, web-methods and ApacheCAMEL.  • Experience in database modeling, design and development of PL/SQL stored procedures, packages in relational databases: Oracle 9i / 10g / 11g, SQL Server 2005/2008, DB2, PostgreSQL and MySQL.  • Strong experience with MongoDB development (reports, schema design, map reduce functions) and migrations from SQL relational databases to NoSQL databases like MongoDB, Cassandra and CouchDB.  • Experience in using IDE tools NetBeans, Eclipse, IntelliJ, configuring and deploying the applications on Tomcat, GlassFish, WebSphere, WebLogic and JBoss Servers.  • Hands on experience with build like Ant, Maven, Gradle and logging tools like Log4J and Splunk.  • Developed CI/CD system with Jenkins on Kubernetes container environment utilizing Kubernetes.  • Experience in testing with JUnitFramework using Mockito and Easy Mock, and other testing tools like Firebug, Fire Poster,Protractor, Selenium, Jasmine, SoapUI.  • Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging new technologies and paradigms.  • Excellent communication, interpersonal and analytical skills and a highly motivated team player with the ability to work independently. Work Experience Sr. Java Full Stack Developer PNC Bank - Columbus, OH, US October 2016 to Present Description: PNC offers a wide range of services such as retail banking and residential mortgage banking for customers from individuals and small business, to corporations and government entities. Cash Flow Insight (CFI) is an innovative suite of online tools for seeing and managing business's cash flow. Developed single page applications. Designed presentation layers for various required services for customers.    Responsibility:  • Involved in various SDLC phases like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development with both iterative (Agile, Waterfall).  • Implemented AngularJS Controllers to maintain each View data and Service calls using Angular Factory.  • Developed A dashboard based on Ajax calls with Business Customers Count, Flags, Real-time graphs for Analytical Reporting using NodeJS.  • Used ReactJS to create views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data with server as a SPA.  • All the functionality is implemented using SpringIO / Spring Boot, Thymeleaf and Hibernate ORM.  • Implemented Java EE components using SpringIOC, Spring Transactions and Spring Security modules.  • Tested REST services using google chrome's POSTMAN plugin.  • Consumed messages from JMS driven beans and Active MQ. Integrated Active MQ services with Beans.  • Hibernate DAO classes were developed to retrieve and save data using Spring framework manager classes.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface.  • Experience in Creating, Dropping Indexes, Tables, Stored Procs and Views on Oracle DB.  • Cloud environment for Microservices was provided using Spring Netflix (Eureka server, Hystrix, Ribbon).  • Expertise with employment of Spring Kafka and Zookeeper apart from JMS as messaging service.  • Deployed the Application into Docker container and made easily accessible at runtime using Cloud Foundry and other cloud services like AWS, Netflix Eureka, Spring Hystrix as fallback method, Spring Ribbon for load balancing and a broker service to maintain status using SpringKafka and Zookeeper.  • Worked with modules like mongoose for database persistence using NodeJS to interact with MongoDB.  • Developed client applications using JAXR and JAXM to connect to the UDDI registry.  • Apache Mesos and Kubernetes were used as the best ecosystem to deploy and manage Microservices.  • Designed and deployed a multitude application utilizing almost all the AWS Including EC2, R53, S3, RDS, DynamoDB, SQS, IAM, Cloud Formation and lambda, focusing on high-availability and fault tolerance.  • Developed applications using RuleEngines, Drools 4.x, and ILOG to validate the business User Roles.  • Analyze and resolve conflicts related to merging of source code for GIT.  • Log4J is used for logging purposes and debug levels are defined for controlling what we log.  • Writing Unit test cases using JUnit testing framework and performed unit and system testing.  • Selenium's playback tool feature for authoring tests has been used in executing more than 100 test cases.  • Expertise on Selenium Data Driven framework and integrating it with Maven (Build Management Tool), TestNG (Unit Testing tool) and Jenkins (Continuous Integration Tool).  • Created and configured management reports and dashboards using Splunk.  Environment: AWS, Java7, J2EE, Cloud Foundry, Java Beans, NodeJS, Spring, Spring Kafka, Zookeeper, AWS, CI/CD, JQuery, EJB, Hibernate 2.0, Eclipse, React, Devops, Angular, Spark, Jenkins, Oracle 11g, MongoDB, PL/SQL, Selenium, Cucumber, Log4j, XML, HTML5, CSS3, REST, JMS, ActiveMQ, Web Services, Web Logic server, Jasmine, Maven, GIT. Sr. Java/J2EE and Full Stack Developer Dish - Denver, CO, US August 2015 to October 2016 Description: Dish Network (stylized as dish) is an American direct-broadcast satellite service provider. The company provides satellite television, satellite internet access, audio programming, and interactive television services to commercial and residential customers in the United States.    Responsibility:  • Involved in Design and Development of project modules, gather requirements, analyze, and implemented business logic using Agile Scrum Software Development methodology.  • Designed class, sequence, activity, flow diagrams using UML Visio and Sparx.  • Designed and develop a custom, single-page, responsive Web Application on front end using Angular 2.  • Developed several reusable directives using Angular 2. Moved existing AngularJS controllers and services to Angular 2 components for more responsive and less dependency.  • Developed Interactive web pages with Angular 2, HTML5, CSS3, Javascript, JQuery, and Bootstrap.  • Usage of new features of Java8 like lambdaexpressions for communicating between business layer and database, stream API for Bulk Data Operations on Collections using both streams and parallel streams.  • Used J2EE design patterns like Model View Controller(MVC), Singleton, Factory, Data Access Object (DAO), Data Transfer Object (DTO) and Service Locator.  • Involved in writing Thread safe blocks for Multithreading access and improve performance.  • Usedcore Spring concepts like DI/IOC, AOP, Batch implementation.  • Implemented fail safe and circuit breaker patterns in Spring BootMicroservice applications using Hystrix, configured Swagger-UI to registered Microservice with Eureka server and monitored service health check from Spring Boot admin console and Spring Ribbon for load balancing.  • Developed UI applications using Angular2 integrating with REST API's built on Spring ZuulMicroservices.  • Working on Microservice Registration with Spring Cloud using Netflix Eureka.  • Implementing Spring Cloud- REST call using Netflix Feign Client.  • Implementing or exposing the Microservice architecture with Spring Boot based services interacting through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka message brokers.  • Implemented pre-authentication and data base security using Spring Security and securing application access and Spring Batch for scheduling and maintenance of batch jobs.  • Developed Python Object Oriented Design code for logging and debugging code optimization.  • Worked on Camel-based integration middle-ware solution for Provisioning Services by design and the Implementation of business logic and data processing routes using Apache Camel.  • Created tables and worked on SQL and PL/SQL to write Stored Procedures functions and packages for complex inserts and updates in the DB, used TOAD to interact with Oracle database.  • Used Oracle 11g/12c for the backend data and performed complex queries using joins for CRUD operations.  • Experience in Normalization, performance tuning, uploading files to database using CLOB and BLOB.  • Worked on Splunk DB Connect APP to load the data into Splunk from Oracle Database.  • Implemented Spring ORM with Hibernate taking advantage of features like Annotation metadata, AutoWiring, and Collectionsto implement DAO layer with Hibernate Session Factory, HQL, and SQL.  • Extensively used Hibernate concepts such asLazy loading, Dirty checking, Locking, and Transactions.  • Composed and executed MongoDB scripts to insert and update NoSQL database and reporting.  • Configuring Cassandra clusters and key spaces on RHELOpenstack Installed and setup Apache Spark.  • Used the Java API to load the data into Cassandra Clusters.  • Installed and configured plug-ins for Apache HTTP server and Sun One Web server to proxy the request for WebLogic server.  • Implemented standard backup procedures for Weblogic server.  • Deployed Docker contained Spring Boot Microservices in to AWS EC2 container service using AWS admin console and used lambda to run applications in AWS console.  • Experience with building Docker Images and running them on Docker container.  • Used Jenkins as an AWS code deploys plug-in to deploy to AWS. Experience with DevOps methodologies, implementing CI/CD Pipelines using tool sets like GIT, Jenkins, Chef and AWS.  • Generating Scala and Java classes from the APIs so that they can be incorporated in the application.  • Used Sparkstreaming with Scala to consume real-time data from the Kafka cluster and run arbitrations.  • Responsible for implementation of java integration components for JBPM and DROOLs.  • Configured Protractor test classes and Selenium grid end to end testing on the front end.  • Involved in code reviews and unit testing using JUnit framework and Log4j to provide logs of exceptions.  • Worked with several testing frameworks such as JUnit, EasyMock, Mockito and PowerMock.  • Created Test automation framework using Cucumber and Selenium web driver.  • Used Drools engine for validating business rules before executing in runtime.  • Used Git for version control and JIRA for bug tracking, project management andMaven as build tool.  Environment: Java8, J2EE, CI/CD, Spring, Webservices, Microservices, Swagger, Spring Zuul, Netflix Eureka, Restful, Feign Client, Apache Camel, Kafka, WebLogic, JUnit, JBPM, Drools, Spring Cloud, AWS, EC2, S3, Scala, MongoDB, Cassandra, HTML5, CSS3, Python, JavaScript/ES6, Bootstrap, jQuery, Angular 2, Maven, AJAX, JQuery, XML, XSLT, Java Beans, UML, Design Patterns, Log4j, Agile Methodology, Devops, Docker, Spark, Kubernetes. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer ACI WorldWide - Clearwater, FL, US June 2013 to August 2015 Description: Enterprise Banker, the industry-leading web-based cash management system. With Enterprise Banker, customers use a web browser to access cash management Functions. Financial institution administrators use Enterprise Banker's web-based administrative interface to set system defaults, perform customer setup, and monitor customer activities with a web browser from any location that has access to the financial institution's network. When fully utilized, Enterprise Banker includes 18 products, over 90 modules; over 250 Enterprise Banker Suite is designed to allow financial institutions to purchase and implement specific, limited increments of functionality.    Responsibility:  • Experienced with Software Development Life Cycle(SDLC) with object oriented of business process and worked on developing Service oriented architecture applications in agile development environment.  • Developed and implemented Business Requirements using Spring MVC framework. Implemented cross-cutting concerns such as logging, authentication and system performance using Spring AOP.  • Developed reusable and interoperableservices, based on SOAP, WSDL, JAXWS, JAXRPC Web services.  • Well versed with core Java concepts like Collections, Swing, Serialization and Servlets&JSP.  • Implemented web services in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) to retrieve data from client side NodeJS and parsed the data to client and handled the security and Authorization using Spring Security and OAuth authentication protocol respectively.  • Used Jackson Custom Mappers for Custom manipulation for date, currency conversations on JSON Data.  • Used Jackson parser for Marshaling and Un-Marshaling.  • Developed POJO objects and used Hibernate as the Object-Relational Mapping (ORM) tool to access the persistent data from SQL Server.  • Used Hibernate Detached Criteria, HQL and written some SQL queries for data retrieving.  • Hands-on writing Stored Procedures, functions, triggers, DDL, DML SQLqueries and PL/SQL.  • Worked on JPA as persistence layer, involving EJB annotations to synchronize with database through XML.  • JBoss Application server implementation, support, workload management and performance tuning including Web server setup configuration with JBoss App Server.  • Developed UI usingAngularJS, HTML5,CSS3, jQuery, Bootstrap,JavaScript, Ajax.  • Developed PL/SQL store procedures to convert the data from Oracle to MongoDB.  • Developed Test classes using JUnit and Easy Mock and test coverage using EMMA plug-in.  • Analyze and resolve conflicts related to merging of source code for GIT and Maven as build tool.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Java Beans, JMS, NodeJS, Spring, JQuery, EJB, Hibernate, IntelliJ, Angular, Oracle 11g, MongoDB, PL/SQL, Cucumber, Log4j, XML, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, SOAP, Maven, GIT. Java/J2EE Developer Penn National Insurance - Harrisburg, PA, US April 2011 to June 2013 Description: Penn National Insurance is a property-casualty mutual insurance company, headquartered in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. Founded in 1919 by a farmers' trade organization, to help the farmers get more affordable workers' compensation protection for their workers who operated steam-driven farming equipment.    Responsibility:  • Involved in preparation of functional definition documents and Involved in the discussions with business users, testing team to finalize the technical design documents.  • Extensively used MVC, Factory, Delegate and Singleton design patterns.  • Enhanced the Web Application using Struts.  • Created business logic and application in Struts Framework using JSP, and Servlets.  • Wrote Client side validation using Struts Validate framework and JavaScript.  • Wrote unit test cases for different modules and resolved the test findings.  • Used SOAP for Web Services by exchanging XML data between applications over HTTP.  • Wrote JSPs, Servlets and deployed them on WebLogic Application server.  • Wrote queries in MySQL to interact with the database.  • Used Subversion for version control and log4j for logging errors.  • Helped production support team to solve trouble reports  • Wrote Ant Scripts to automate the build and deploy process.  • Involved in Release Management and Deployment Process.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Struts, JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, SOAP, WebLogic, Log4j, AMT, CVS, PL/SQL, MySQL. Jr. Java/J2EE Developer Change Health care - Lombard, IL, US February 2010 to April 2011 Description: This is a web application based on J2EE architecture. It provides web-based access to inpatient and outpatient data from the Data Repository. Users can review as well as update or enter new data through data repository. Many clinicians use Data Repository daily for accessing patient data, which aids in making important clinical decisions. Data Repository is mainly composed of various modules running inside of the application. The project aims to provide the company with data to develop evidence-based health policy decisions as well. The client programs are used for issuing or retrieving data from the database depending on the query for finding health policy premium.    Responsibility:  • Involved in the requirements gathering. Design, Development, Unit testing and Bug fixing  • Developed application using Struts, Spring and Hibernate.  • Developed rich user interface using JavaScript, JSTL, CSS, JQuery and JSP's.  • Used custom tags to display logic specific data in JSP'S and used SpringIOC for injecting the beans.  • Used Hibernate for connecting to the database and mapping the entities by using hibernate annotations  • Used Oracle database as backend database and wrote SQL to update and create database tables.  • Involved in making release builds for deploying the application for test environments.  • Used Jbossas application server andused JUNIT,JMOCK for unit testing.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Struts, JSP, Servlets, JSLT, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Jboss, ANT, CVS, SQL, Hibernate Oracle. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Ascena Retail group - Pataskala, OH, US February 2009 to February 2010 Description: This project has been designed to provide efficient and secure online shopping facilities to the customers. Items will be categorized on the basis of the item price and type of item etc. This Application also offers various operations relating to their orders such as expediting, canceling and splitting the order. Status of their order is also displayed upon request.    Responsibility:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, analysis, design, development, testing and production environments.    • Worked on Agile Development Methodology using Scrum concepts.  • Created struts form beans, action classes, JSPs following Struts framework standards.  • Implemented Struts Framework and Hibernate in the new version of the Application.  • Designed and developed the front end using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Used Web services (SOAP) for transmission of large blocks of XML data over HTTP.  • Used XML Web Services using SOAP protocol to transfer the amount to other application that is remote and global to different financial institutions, used SoapUI for web service testing.  • Implemented the database connectivity using JDBC with Oracle 9i database as backend.  • Extensively used Core Java such as Multi-Threading, Exceptions, and Collections.  • Developed real time tracking of class schedules using NodeJS (Socket.io, ExpressJS framework).  • Developed the UNIX shell scripts to automate jobs.  • Worked on Junit for creating test cases for all the Business Rules and the application code.  • Hosted the application on WebSphere and used Maven as the build automation tool.    Environment: Java 6.0, Struts Framework 2.0, Hibernate 3.0, EJB, SOAP, Web Services, HTML CSS, NodeJs, ExpressJs WebSphere Application Server 7.0, JUnit, UNIX, JavaScript, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JQuery, XML, XSLT. Education Bachelor's Skills J2EE (9 years), JAVA (9 years), jQuery (7 years), DATABASE (9 years), SQL (8 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Java/J2EE Technologies Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JDBC, JMS, JNDI, RMI, EJB, JFC/Swing, AWT, Applets, Multi-threading, Java Networking.  Programming Languages Java JDK 1.4/1.5/1.6/1.7/1.8, C++, C, SQL, PL/SQL, Python, Scala, Golang  Application/Web Servers: Oracle/BEA, WebLogic 8.1/9.1/10.3, IBM WebSphere 5.1/6.0/6.1/7.0, Jboss, Tomcat 5.0.28/6.0, Bug tracking, Jenkins, Cucumber.  IDEs Eclipse, Spring STS, IntelliJ, WebStorm, NetBeans.  Web technologies  HTML5, CSS3, XHTML, JavaScript(+ES6), TypeScript, Ajax, JQuery, AngularJS, Angular 2, Angular 4, ReactJS, NodeJS, Socket.io, ExpressJS, JSON, Swagger UI, Bootstrap.    AWS Skills EC2, S3, RDS, EBS, IAM, AMI, ELB, CLI, SNS, RDS, VPN, NAT, GIT, DNS, Route53, DBA, Dynamo DB.  Web Services JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, SOAP, REST, SOAP UI, Microservices.  Methodologies Agile, Scrum, RUP, TDD, OOAD, SDLC, Waterfall model.  Modeling Tools UML, Rational Rose, Visio  Message Brokers Kafka, RabbitMQ, ActiveMQ, TIBCO, IBMMQ.  Testing technologies/tools JUnit, JMeter, Protractor, Mockito.  Database Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11G, DB2, SQL Server 2005/2008, MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, Cassandra.  Big Data Tools Hadoop, Spark, MapReduce, HDFS, HBase, Zookeeper, Hive, Sqoop, Cassandra, Flume, Couchbase, MongoDB, Neo4J, Redis, MLlib.  Version Control CVS, SVN, Git, Stash, Bitbucket.  Build Tools ANT, Maven, Gradle.  Spring Tools  Spring MVC, IOC, AOP, JDBC, JTA, IO, Spring Boot, Spring Micro services, Spring REST, Spring Eureka, Consul, Swagger UI, Sleuth, and Spring Zuul, Feign Client.    Platforms Windows 10/7/2000/98/95/NT4.0, LINUX, UNIX.