Sr. Java/ J2EE Full Stack Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span>/ J2EE Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java/ J2EE Full Stack Developer - Client- Wells Fargo Charlotte, NC • Over 8+ years of strong software experience in design, development and deployment of web-based and Client-Server business applications and expert in working in all life cycles (SDLC, Agile).  • Ability to efficiently translate algorithms, ideas and concepts to software applications. Proficient in applying design patterns like MVC, Singleton, Session Facade, Service Locator, Visitor, Observer, Decorator, Front Controller, Data Access Object.  • Proficient in implementation of frameworks like Struts, Spring, JSF, AJAX frameworks (RichFaces, MyFaces) and ORM frameworks like Hibernate.  • Transaction implementation (CMP, BMP, Message-Driven Beans), JMS, Struts, Spring, Swing, Hibernate, Java Beans, JDBC, XML, Web Services, JNDI, Multithreading Executor Services etc.  • Experience in React.js, BackBone.js and Angular.js. Experience in Web Service Technologies: SOAP, Restful, WSDL, UDDI, Apache Axis, CXF, IBM JAX-WS, JERSEY.  • Experience in working with the NoSQL, Mongo DB, and Apache Cassandra. Implementing or exposing the Micro services to base on RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC and Apache Kafka.  • Developed Micro Service to provide RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Good experience with Spring AOP, Spring Transactions, Spring Security, Spring Quartz batch jobs. Used Executor Framework to deal with Java Threads.  • Worked and having experience on Spring Cloud Services. Developed UI screens using HTML, JavaScript, XML, and Angular JS with Bootstrap.  • Implement the JavaScript/JQuery frameworks such as Angular JS for MVW/MVC framework, MVVM framework using Backbone for MVC.  • Experience in architecting and implementing Enterprise Application Integration (EAI) projects with Service Oriented Architecture (SOA), Web Services Integrations, BPM, BPEL and ESB using WebSphere Process Server, ESB, WebSphere Integration Developer, Data Power and WSRR.  • Expertise in XML technologies such as XSL, XSLT, XML schemas, XPath, XForms, XSL-FO and parsers like SAX, DOM.  • Expertise in back-end/server-side java technologies such as: Enterprise Java Beans (EJB), Java Persistence API (JPA), Java Messaging Service (JMS), Java Data Base Connectivity (JDBC), Java Naming and Directory Interface (JNDI), Remote method Invocation(RMI).  • Developed applications using latest technologies like EJB3.0, Spring2.x/3.x/4.x, Hibernate3.2/4.x, and REST based Web Services (axis2.0, JAX WS 2.0), Rule Engines (Drools4.1, ILOG), XML API and tools.  • Expertise in developing SOA (Service Oriented Architecture), REST and J2EE Web Services based on SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, JAX-WS, JAXB, JAX-RPC using tools like Apache Axis.  • Proven experience with Application Servers like IBM WebSphere 16.x/9.x/8.x/, Oracle/BEA WebLogic 12.x/10.x/9.x, JBoss and Tomcat9.x/8.x/6. x.  • Worked extensively with Core Java, Multithreading, and Collections. Expertise in developing SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) andJ2EE Web Services based on SOAP, RESTFUL, WSDL, UDDI, JAX-WS, JAXB, JAXRS, JAX-RPC using tools like Apache Axis.  • Excellent experience with major relational databases - Oracle 8i/9i/10g, SQL Server 2000/2005/2008, DB2, My SQL.  • Extensively worked with different operating systems like Windows 98/2000/NT/XP, UNIX and LINUX. Worked on Grid Controls, Pie Charts and other Swing Components Expert level skills on JQuery, JavaScript, VBScript, Perl, AJAX, Adobe Flex, Action Script, JSON, HTML, DHTML, CSS, Tiles, Tag Libraries.  • Expertise in software configuration management using CVS, SVN and IBM Clear Case. Hands on experience with build tools like ANT, Maven and logging tools like Log4J. Expertise in testing with JUnit using tools like JMeter. Experience in Agile software development process, Test Driven Development and Scrum.  • Production Support-Provided development (quick fixes) and technical support for complex/ critical applications. Coordinated with other teams to resolve end-user issues promptly. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java/ J2EE Full Stack Developer Client- Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC April 2015 to Present USA    Description:  BUFFET (Better User Interface for Foreign Exchange Transactions) is a front office application that facilitates the trading, sales and operational processing of foreign exchange cash transactions. Within BUFFET, the Order board allows user to monitor, fill and book internal or external request to purchase or sell the currency when the market exchange rates for particular currency pair interacts the desired.    Responsibilities:  • Involving in preparing System and business Requirements and Detailed Design document for the project.  • Actively involving in Analysis, Design, Development, System Testing and User Acceptance Testing. Successfully followed agile methodology in the Scrum Cycle model.  • Install, configure, deploy, load balancing, performance tune and maintaining of Tomcat 6.0.35 and Jboss 4.3.0 servers. Using Java-J2EE patterns like Model View Controller (MVC), Business Delegate, Data Transfer Objects, Data Access Objects, factory patterns.  • Designing and developing the End Points (Controllers), Business Layer, DAO Layer using Hibernate/JDBC template, using Spring IOC (Dependency Injection).  • Implementing applications using Spring Cloud Services, such as Config Server, Service Registry, Circuit Breaker Dashboard. Extensively using MVC, Factory, Delegate and Singleton design patterns.  • Working on Spring Security for application authentication and Modifying the Spring MVC, REST Controllers and Services classes as part offspring framework. Using Spring Framework AOP Module to implement logging in the application for application status and Using Spring DAO Module along with Struts Framework to deal with Database.  • Spring MVC Framework IOC (Inversion of Control) design pattern is used to have relationships between application components.  • Using Spring MVC Transaction Management, Spring/Hibernate Batch Transactions and Hibernate cache concepts.  • Developed Micro Service to provide RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Designing and developed Micro Services using (MEAN Stack) node.js, Mongo DB, Neo4J, Elastic search on Cisco Private Cloud OpenStack Platform.  • Strong expertise on implementation of Jenkins, Teamcity as a Continuous Integration Tools Where I am involved in writing various Build Jobs for building artifacts of the project.  • Worked on the configuring the Jenkins to use MetaCase Software to build Java code and to do the whole C.I process on the java code generated by MetaCase.  • Using Angular Ionic framework as part of implementing mobile version of application.  • Implementing SOA to develop REST Based Web services using Apache Axis.  • Developing REST Web Services clients to consume those Web Services  • Designing and Developing Presentation Tier using Spring MVC and JSP integrating Custom Tags, JSTL, JSP Expression Language and AJAX.  • Experience with developing and executing Python scripts from Java with python as part of batch job.  • Working on Drools Rule Engines with corresponding to validate the business User Roles.  • Developing and debugging the servlets and EJB with WebSphere Application server. Worked on lot of AngularJS directives and custom directives.  • Upgrading existing UI with HTML5, CSS3, JQuery and Bootstrap with AngularJs interaction.  • Using JQuery to develop the widgets, to perform the client side validations, UI centric Ajax behavior.  • Using XStreamAPI to transfer data back and forth between Spring MVC.  • Using Hibernate framework for back end development and Spring dependency injection for middle layer development  • Using Hibernate Transaction Management, Hibernate Batch Transactions, and cache concepts.  • Managing and maintaining Oracle and NoSQL databases in production domain.  • Working on Spring Quartz functionality for scheduling tasks such as generating monthly reports for customers and sending those mails about different policies.  • Using HTML4 and CSS3 for website development and build on Bootstrap 3.0. Data binding using AngularJs.  • Developing several SOAP based JAX-WS Web Service interfaces for integrating multiple systems, code re-usability.  • Experience with implementing BPM processes in existing system using both Synchronous and Asynchronous Web Services.  • Working on Executor Services to manage termination and methods that can produce a Future for tracking progress of one or more asynchronous tasks. Experience in Building Web Service Contracts in SOA Service Manager.  • Smoke Test and Acceptance Testing with Selenium in multiple Java platforms.  • Familiar with Cucumber, Selenium Web Driver, Selenium commands and x-path. Implementing AngularJS and Node.JS with Spring MVC as model component. Developing custom AngularJS directives, tags and integrated with spring forms.  • Done unit testing using JUnit. Experience with S plunk for logging. Developing MDBs for receiving and processing data from WebSphere MQ series. Using Ant scripts to build and deploy the application in IBM WebSphere Application Server 8.5.    Environment:  J2EE, Spring framework, Spring MVC, Spring quartz, Drool, Jira, JDK/1.7, Hibernate 4.x, JQuery, JSON, JSF, Servlets 2.3, JDBC, AJAX, Jenkins, Web services, EJB, JMS, Cucumber, Selenium, SOAP, Angular JS XML, Java Beans, XStream, SOA, WSDL, JAXB, JSON, Apache POI, JavaScript, Oracle 11g, IBM RAD, Web Sphere 8.x, Agile Methodology, Mongo DB, Design Patterns, SVN, Apache Maven, Adobe Flex, JUnit, Html Unit, XSLT, HTML/DHTML. Sr. Java/ J2EE & Full Stack Developer Client- Cerner Corporation - Kansas City, MO January 2014 to March 2015 Description:  Cerner Corporation is one of the largest providers of Healthcare Information Technology solutions, services, devices and hardware. Cerner solutions enable physicians, nurses, and other authorized users to share data and streamline processes across an entire organization. Cerner's comprehensive portfolio of solutions is designed on a common blueprint known as Cerner Millennium. Cerner Millennium solutions combine technology with knowledge to deliver vital data needed for real-time decision-making  Responsibilities:  • Developed the J2EE application based on the Service Oriented Architecture. Developed using new features of Java 1.7 Annotations, Generics, enhanced for loop and Enums. Used spring and Hibernate for implementing IOC, AOP and ORM for back end tiers.  • Developing and editing user Interface Screens using JSP, HTML5.0, JavaScript and node.js and Improve presentation of webpages CSS 3.0, Adobe Flash and JQuery plug - INS.  • Designed SOA integration using Apache CXF. Enabled rapid service tier development.  • Automate Continuous Build and Deploy Scripts for Jenkins Continuous Integration tool.  • Used AngularJS to create views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data with server as a Single Page Application (SPA).  • Used Bootstrap and AngularJS to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.  • Implemented complex back-end component to get the count in no time against large size MySQL database (about 4 crore rows) using Java multi-threading. Handled Java multi-threading part in back-end component, one thread will be running for each user, which serves that user.  • Worked on Cross-browser Compatibility of UI pages. Implemented for internet browsers such as Chrome, Firefox, and IE 8/9/10/11.  • Created and injected spring services, spring controllers and DAOs to achieve dependency injection and to wire objects of business classes. Used Spring Inheritance to develop beans from already developed parent beans.  • Worked on Spring Quartz functionality for scheduling tasks such as generating monthly reports for customers and sending those mails about different policies.  • Extensively used various Spring Framework modules like MVC, DI (IOC), Auto Wiring, JDBC Templates, Spring Security, and AOP. Implemented SOA to develop REST Based Web services using Apache Axis.  • Developed Service Layer Using Spring, AspectJ and persistence layer using Hibernate.  • Used Hibernate Transaction Management, Hibernate Batch Transactions, and cache concepts.  • Modified the Spring Controllers and Services classes to support the introduction of spring framework.  • Developed various generic JavaScript functions used for validations. Developed screens using jQuery, JSP, JavaScript, AJAX.  • Used Hibernate framework for back end development and Spring dependency injection for middle layer development.  • Working with Java libraries to access AWS facilities as Simple Storage Service. Worked with Web services components JAX-RS services and worked with Restful Web services interact with external systems.  • Used Maven and Jenkins to automate the build and deploy process and SVN was used for project management and version management.  • Developed the presentation layer and GUI framework in JSP and Client-Side validations were done.  • Smoke Test and Acceptance Testing with Selenium in multiple Java platforms. Familiar with Cucumber, Selenium Web Driver, Selenium commands and x-path.  • Created user-friendly GUI interface and Web pages using HTML, Angular JS, JQuery and Java script.    Environment:  J2EE, Spring framework, Spring MVC, Hibernate 3.x, Angular JS, jQuery, JSON, JSF, Servlets 2.3, JDBC, AJAX, Jenkins, Multi- Threading, Web services, SOAP, XML, Java Beans, X Stream, Net Tool, Apache CXF 2.6, Apache POI, JQuery, JavaScript, Oracle 10g, IBM RAD, WebSphere 7.0, Design Patterns, SVN, Apache Maven, JUnit, HtmlUnit, XSLT, HTML/DHTML. Sr. Java/ J2EE Developer Client- T-Mobile, CA June 2013 to December 2013 Description:  Mobile is a leading Telecom Domain company based in USA. T-Mobile Equipment Installment Program (EIP) team works with clients to help their customers finance their Mobile devices from various available installment plans, introduce new plans and calculate down payment and monthly Installment using Credit Information of an end user. Also, helps them Return or Exchange their Mobile. Device and upgrade to a new mobile device using jump Upgrade Option. This Project was developed using Spring, Hibernate, Struts 2.x, Maven, JPA, HTML 4.0, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, RUP, JMS, DB2, WebLogic Application Server, and SOAP Web Services.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Generated Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  • The application is designed using J2EE design patterns and technologies based on MVC architecture.  • Agile Methodology is used for development of the application.  • Used J2EEdesign patterns like Value Object Pattern, Session façade, Singleton, Factory and DAO.  • Spring with Tiles Framework is implemented for a common look in all the presentation views.  • Integrated struts MVC with spring DI and Spring hibernate DAO  • EJB Session Beans were used to process requests from the user interface and CMP entity beans were used to interact with the persistence layer.  • Developed Micro Service to provide RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Developed EJB MDB's and message Queue's using JMS technology.  • Implemented security for different front end views based on the access privileges.  • Involved in writing XML validation classes using Struts validation framework.  • Designed the user interfaces using JSPs, AJAX and Struts Tags.  • Implemented complex back-end component to get the count in no time against large size MySQL database (about 4 crore rows) using Java multi-threading.  • Handled Java multi-threading part in back-end component, one thread will be running for each user, which serves that user.  • Taken care of complete Java multi-threading part in back end components.  • Taken care of multi-threading in back end java beans.  • Used XML Web Services using SOAP to register agents using non- java application.  • Used JMS for the asynchronous exchange of critical data and events among J2EE components. Publisher-Subscriber method was used for data loading and Point-To-Point method of JMS was used for event processing.  • Used RAD IDE based on Eclipse for writing code for JSP, Action Classes, Struts and spring beans.  • Involved in writing DAO, DTO's using Hibernate DAO Support.  • Implemented persistence layer using Hibernate that uses the POJOs (which do not have the business processes) to represent the persistence database tuples.  • Used IBM WebSphere Application Server to deploy the application.  • Developed Junit test cases for DAO and Service Layer methods.  • Used SVN for version control of the application.  • Used Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  • Developed the ANT scripts for preparing WAR files used to deploy J2EE components.    Environment:  Core Java, J2EE, JSP, Struts, Spring, OOAD, Oracle 9i, HTML, EJB3, AJAX, JMS, XML, Design Patterns, ANT, Rationale Rose, Multi- Threading, IBM RAD IDE, IBM WebSphere Application Server 6.1, Hibernate 3.0, LOG4J, SVN, TOAD, JUNIT, UML. Java/ J2EE Developer Client- State Farm, IL October 2009 to May 2013 Description:  State Farm Insurance is an insurance provider concentrated on meeting auto insurance, health insurance, life insurance and property insurance needs for the customers in the United States and Canada. The Enterprise Claims System (ECS) is a web-based system, which will replace the current mainframe application, Claim Service Record (CSR) system. ECS is designed to meet many goals like Increased Flexibility, Reduced Complexity, Better "time to market". Features in ECS include but not limited to Automated Tasks, Electronic Task Lists, Electronic Bills, Automatic Payment, and Medical Treatment Lists.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Generated Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Developed the applications using Java, J2EE, Struts, JDBC  • Worked on various use cases in development using Struts and testing the functionalities.  • Involved in preparing the High Level and Detail level design of the system using J2EE.  • Created struts form beans, action classes, JSPs following Struts framework standards.  • Implemented the database connectivity using JDBC with Oracle 9i database as backend.  • Involved in the development of model, library, struts and form classes (MVC).  • Used display tag libraries for decoration and used display table for reports and grid designs.  • Designed and developed file upload and file download features using JDBC with Oracle Blob.  • Worked on core java, using file operations to read system file (downloads) and to present on JSP.  • Involved in the development of underwriting process, which involves communications without side systems using IBM MQ and JMS.  • Taken care of complete Java multi-threading part in back end components.  • Taken care of multi-threading in back end java beans.  • Used PL/SQL stored procedures for applications that needed to execute as part of a scheduling mechanisms.  • Designed and developed Application based on Struts Framework using MVC design pattern.  • Developed Struts Action classes using Struts controller component.  • Developed SOAP based XML web services.  • Used SAX XML API to parse the XML and populate the values for a bean.  • Used Jasper to generate rich content reports.  • Developed XML applications using XSLT transformations.  • Created XML document using STAX XML API to pass the XML structure to Web Services.  • Developed and maintained UNIX shell scripts for data-driven automatic processing.  • Apache Ant was used for the entire build process.  • Used Rational Clear Case for version control and JUnit for unit testing.  • Used quartz scheduler to process or trigger the applications daily.  • Configured WebSphere Application server and deployed the web components.  • Provided troubleshooting and error handling support in multiple projects.    Environment:  Flex, EJB, Struts, spring, JSP1.2, Servlets2.1, Jasper reports, JMS, IBM MQ, XML, SOAP, UDDI, WSDL, JDBC, JavaScript, XSLT, XML, UML, HTML, JNDI, Rational Rose 98, Oracle 9i, IBM WebSphere 6.0, Clear Case, Log4J, ANT, JUnit, IBM RAD, and Apache Tomcat. Java Developer Gapvak - IN June 2008 to September 2009 India    Description:  GAPVAK Technologies is a leading solution provider for Internet based applications. It possesses not only the latest technology gadgets but also the most knowledgeable and experienced hands to offer most user friendly customized solutions. GAPVAK Technologies provides high quality on site services for software development and the end users on a broad range of software platforms and latest technologies. Experienced at creating state of art enterprise grade products, Gapvak is dedicated to delivering advanced marketing solutions for the global organizations.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Requirements collection & Analysis from the business team.  • Created the design documents with use case diagram, class diagrams, and sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Implemented the MVC architecture using Apache Struts1.2 Framework.  • Implemented Action Classes and server side validations for account activity, payment history and Transactions.  • Implemented views using Struts tags, JSTL2.0 and Expression Language.  • Implemented Tiles Framework for the views layout.  • Implemented session beans to handle business logic for fund transfer, loan, credit card & fixed deposit modules.  • Worked with various java patterns such as Service Locater and Factory Pattern at the business layer for effective object behaviors.  • Worked on the JAVA Collections API for handling the data objects between the business layers and the front end.  • Worked with JAXB, SAXP and XML Schema for exporting data into XML format and importing data from XML format to data base and JAXB in the web service's request response data marshalling as well as marshaling process.  • Implemented the web services client to consume the third-party service API for validating credit cards. Used XMLWeb Services using SOAP to transfer the amount to transfer application that is remote and global to different financial institutions.  • Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information such as payment status report.  • Developed Unit test cases using JUnit.  • Developed Ant scripts and developed builds using Apache ANT.  • Used Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  • Used Clear Case for source code maintenance.    Environment:  J2EE, Java, Struts, Tiles, JSP, JNDI, Clear Case, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, JAXB, JAXP, Schema (XST), EJB 2.0, ANT, JavaScript, JMS, Rational Rose, WSAD, DB 2. Education Bachelor's Skills J2EE (9 years), Java (9 years), JavaScript (9 years), JSP (9 years), JUnit. (9 years) Additional Information SKILLS: ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   Java/J2EE Technologies  Servlets, JSTL, JDBC, JMS, JPA JNDI, RMI, EJB, JFC/Swing, AWT, Java Beans, Applets, Multi-threading, Java Networking, Spring data, Spring Boot, Spring framework, Spring JDBC Templates, java mail, Google API, Hibernate 3.2/3.5, Web Services, SOAP, RESTFUL    Programming Languages Java JDK1.4/1.5/1.6/1.7, C++, C, SQL, PL/SQL  Application/Web Servers: Oracle/BEA WebLogic 8.1/9.1, IBM WebSphere 5.1/6.0/6.1/7.0, JBoss, Tomcat 5.0.28/6.0, Jetty Server, jerkins  Frameworks Struts 2.x/1.x, Spring 3.x, Hibernate 3.x, JSF 1.2/2.0,iBatis,Angular Ionic  IDEs Eclipse 3.x, IBM WebSphere Application Developer 5.x, IBM RAD,STS  Web technologies JSP, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, XML, XSLT, HTML, DHTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Angular JS, Ext JS, Backbone JS, Node JS.  Web Services JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI,REST  XML Tools JAXB, Apache Axis, Altova XMLSpy  Methodologies Agile, Scrum, RUP, TDD, OOAD, SDLC Waterfall model  Modeling Tools UML, Rational Rose, Visio  Testing technologies/tools JUnit, JMeter, HtmlUnit  Database Servers Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11i, DB2, SQL Server 2000/2005/2008, MySQL,Informix and DB2.  Version Control CVS, SVN, Rational clearcase  Build Tools ANT, Maven  Platforms Windows 2000/98/95/NT4.0, UNIX