Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Capital One Plano, TX • (Please do not call, only email and no third parties. My employer will work only with main vendors who connect with end client directly. I am on H1B and will work on C2C. Location preference is Dallas area only)  • Around 13 years of experience in Software development life cycle involving analysis, design, development, testing, maintenance, architecting of application software in Web-based and distributed n-tier architecture environment using Java & J2EE technologies.  • Experience in all phases of software development life cycle.  • Various domain experiences like Banking & Financial Services, Insurance, Telecom and Software quality process.  • Experience involved in defining & designing the layers, components of the project using OOAD methodologies and standard J2EE patterns.  • Experience in developing and designing web-based applications using java, J2EE, Web Services both SOAP & REST, MVC framework, Spring, Hibernate, Spring Boot, Servlets, JSP, Tag Libraries, JNDI, JDBC, Struts, EJB, Mule ESB, Oracle, SQL, JMS MQ Series, Active MQ, Ant and Maven Builds.  • Thorough experience on the SOA design principles.  • Good knowledge and experience on the ESB creation and deployments, Load Balancing, Router Configurations.  • Experience in Cloud deployments and debugging on WebSphere 8.5 server. On the client side, we use Cloud Management Portal (CMP) a proprietary Cloud tool and AWS for code deployment, promotions and debugging.  • Lead point of contact for Test and Production environments creation, deploying the apps to all the environments like SYS, QA, Pre-Prod and PROD, code promotions and Responsible for Technical Checkouts of the apps and services until Production implementation.  • Worked as a Tech Lead for couple of Migrations projects which are - Java 1.4 to 1.6 & 1.7, WebSphere 6.1 to 8.5, Standard Linux to Cloud based Environment and Ant to Maven migration. Provided technical guidance to the project team during roadblocks.  • Worked on the Data Center migration project from ISCs to Data Centers.  • Expertise in Production support activities.  • Maintaining Disaster Recovery plan and Business continuity plan.  • Thorough knowledge on the BAM(Business Application Monitoring) tool.  • Provided Technical expertise for the team members and resolved Build issues during Continuous Integration.  • Expertise in Service Management Tool HPSM. Very good knowledge on Change management, Incident management and Problem management.  • Provides the Weekly Status Report to the Client on the development status of the work, Issues occurred on the previous and resolution status.  • Worked on Mule Connectors like FILE, HTTP, JMS etc as part of Integration Usage.  • Experience in developing middle tier applications using Enterprise Service Bus (ESB) - MULE.  • Experience in developing applications using web/application servers like WebSphere, & Tomcat. Data Transformations using Mule ESB.  • Extensive knowledge of frameworks that follows MVC architecture like Spring, Struts framework, Java Server Faces.  • Experience in using the Object Relational Mapping Tool Hibernate, strong in using XML mappings and Java Objects.  • Hands on experience with databases including Oracle, PL/SQL, DB2 and MySQL involving stored procedures, triggers, functions, indexes, and packages.  • Experience in Jenkins release tool for building apps and debugging build issues.  • Experience with Docker & Kubernetes  • Experience in environments configurations using Build Environment Support Tool (BEST).  • Have experience in BEST tool to bind Web services, MQ mappings, EJBs, DB configurations, security settings and named environments creation.  • Have good experience in trouble shooting the environment issues.  • Good knowledge on ESB, Data power configurations.  • Experience in Java &J2EE Design Patterns like DAO Pattern, Broker pattern, Service controller, Business Delegate, Strategy pattern, MVC, Dependency Injection & Micro Services.  • Experience with installing and configuring application servers such IBM Web Sphere (WAS 6.1 & 8.5) and WebLogic 10, Apache Tomcat.  • Good Project Management and Inter-personal skills gained through interaction with technical and functional teams. Good understanding on AGILE Methodology.  • Diverse experience in (object oriented) design using UML methodology with Visio and implementing the several Designs.  • IDEs for development - Eclipse, RSA 8.5, MyEclipse, Spring Tool Suite and plug-ins, IBM Data Studio 3.11 for RDBMS.  • Good in writing Junit test cases.  • Hands on experience in VPN, Putty, etc.  • Hands on experience in project management tools like SVN, Clear case and VSS.  • Strong analytical skills with ability to quickly understand client's business needs.  • Involved in meetings to gather information and requirements from the clients.    Technical Skill Expertise:    Language Java 1.5, 6, 7.0, 1.8, J2EE, XML, SQL, PL/SQL  Special Tools RSA, AWS, Cloud Management Portal, HPSM  Web Technologies Servlets, JSP, JSF (UI Components), JSON, Ajax, SAX, DOM, XML  Scripting Language JavaScript, Unix Shell Script, DCOM  Communication Technologies (SOA) Web services (SOAP & REST), WSDL, JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, JSON, JMS MQ Series, Active MQ, Kafka, Apache Camel and Mule ESB  Distributed Technologies JDBC 2.0, EJB  Framework Spring 2.0, Springs MVC, Spring Boot, Struts 1.2, EJB 2.0/3.0 (Stateless Session Beans, CMP, BMP, MDB), Hibernate 3.0, JSF 1.2  ORM (DB and XML) Hibernate 3.0, JAXB  Tools  IDE Tools: Eclipse, RSA 8.5, STS, JUnit, SOAP UI, PMD, JVisualVM  RDBMS Tools: TOAD, SQL Developer, IBM Data Studio Client, IBM DB2 Client, DbVisualizer  Build Tool: Apache Ant Script, Maven, Gradle, Jenkins  Log: Log4J  Version Control: SVN, VSS, Star Team, Github  Other: Splunk, Putty, VMWare, Visual Studio    Database IBM DB2 9.5, Oracle 11g  App Servers WebSphere Application Server WAS 8.5 & 6.1, WebLogic 10, Apache Tomcat 7  OS Win 7,8 & 10, Unix and Linux Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Capital One December 2018 to Present Project: Consumer Identity Services  Project Description: The project aims at migrating the existing security protocols for Java based Web services from an older Tech stack to a latest one. Also written new RESTful web services as part of OTP, consumer identity authentication mechanism for logged in users. Creating pipelines as part of CI/CD to AWS environment and creating mimeo stubs for testing RESTful services for new and existing production issues recreation. The next project I worked is related to PRESTO contactless cards. In this project I worked on developing RESTful services, worked on the SDP messages and utilized Kafka topics for events publishing and Splunk changes related to utilizing the new mechanism for Splunk audit logging and also worked on SDP keystore and trust store jks file changes to consume the latest certificates as part of authentication.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on Security related migration changes.  • Developed RESTful microservices using Spring boot and exposed as APIs.  • Involved in writing JUnits.  • CI/CD pipelines creation.  • Creating clusters and instances in AWS environment.  • Worked on mimeo stubs creation.  • Reviewed the Sonar reports and fixed the code quality issues.    Environment: JAVA 1.8, J2EE, AWS, Tomcat, STS, Spring framework, Maven, Splunk, IOS, LINUX, REST Web services, Kafka, Oracle, Jenkins, Cove, JIRA & Github Sr. Java Developer Southwest Airlines - Dallas, TX June 2018 to November 2018 Project: SWIFT Invicta Program  Project Description: The project aims at migrating the existing Java based Web services from an older Tech stack to a latest one, which covers migrating older Java version to the latest 1.8, Maven to Gradle conversion, converting old style JDBC calls to Hibernate framework, standalone code converting to Spring based frame work, converting SOAP based web services to REST based services, code migration from Clearcase to GITHUB and couple of additional migrations related to DB alias utilization, load balancing & Security related upgrade to a new framework.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on migrating Ant to Gradle and fixed the dependency issues.  • Developed REST based service based on SOAP existing service.  • Involved in writing DAO and delegate layer code using Spring and Hibernate.  • Converting standalone Java service to Spring based service.  • Worked on fixing Tomcat related deployment issues.  • Worked on DB changes and Security related migration changes.  • Worked on merge conflict issues in GitHub.  • Worked on creating MBeans using JMX and utilized JVisualVM to test the Mbeans.  • Run the Sonar reports and fixed the code quality issues.    Environment: JAVA 1.8, J2EE, Tomcat, STS, Spring framework, Gradle, Splunk, Windows, LINUX, REST Web services, Putty, Oracle & Github Sr. Java Developer AT&T - Dallas, TX January 2018 to June 2018 Project: BVOIP TNs to Collaborate  Project Description: The project will automate the process of converting BVOIP TNs to Collaborate. This new functionality will provide additional value making AT&T Collaborate service more attractive to new and existing customers and remain competitive in the market place. The services which I developed will fetch the telephone numbers and customer sites details from backend service and validate the predefined rules on the data and parse the info before sending across to the front end. This project will use the Scaled Agile Framework (SAFe) methodology for multiple releases under Program Increments (PI) as determined by the project team.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in all the phases of the project from PI planning session.  • Developed RESTful web services using Spring boot and exposed as APIs to the consuming Web module.  • Utilized Apache Camel routing for the execution flow.  • Implemented memory coherence and splitter & aggregator camel routes for parallel calls and storing the data into Coherence.  • Involved in writing controller code on the Web module and DAO layer using Spring and Hibernate.  • Used Github for code repo & Jenkins for continuous integration build and deployments of the Docker images into Kubernetes servers.  • Extensively used the mock tools for creating mock data in JSON formats to test the REST services.  • Run the Sonar reports and fixed the code quality issues.  • Responsible for production checkout and monitoring the error rate using Splunk tool    Environment: JAVA 1.8, J2EE, JSP, EJB, Java Script, WebSphere, Eclipse, Spring framework, Maven, Splunk, Windows, LINUX, REST Web services, Putty, Oracle, NoSQL & Github Sr. Java Developer State Farm Insurance July 2012 to January 2018 Project: Auto Fire Web apps  Project Description: The project aims at development, enhancement and support of the existing applications under Auto & Fire area in Mortgage Lender Relations. Work on the new design requirements, analysis and planning. Worked on code mavenization of existing apps and UI enhancements. Migration of existing apps from WAS 6.1 to WAS 8.5 server. The support includes providing the incident support, handling any tickets assigned to the group, working onto resolve the tickets and production support activities. Enhancements in the application include back end web services up gradation.  There is an Auto Insurance Inquiry (AII) web service solution being developed on the Existing platform that will be used by the Auto service areas to inquire the status of a policy and the coverage information and also the terms. The AII solution is expecting to receive inquiry application information that will internally call multiple web services and provide the necessary information back. After the response is returned, a message is posted in the Queue which will be picked by the process application for updating the information on a third-party database.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in all the phases of the project such as analysis, design, development testing and deployment.  • Developed RESTful & SOAP web services and exposed as ESBs with router and load balancing configurations in place.  • Worked on the Java 1.4 to 1.6 and 1.7 migration projects.  • Worked on the EJB layer as part of business functionality changes.  • Used Hibernate to access database and perform database updating.  • Involved in writing controller code and DAO layer using Spring and Hibernate.  • Implemented RESTful webservices using Spring boot.  • Used JMS as part of putting the messages to MQ for third part application processing in an Auto ID cards flow.  • Hibernate 3.0 was used for Object Relational Mapping.  • Used SVN & Jenkins for continuous integration build and Cloud deployments.  • Implemented ESB and Datapower configuration. Our Web Services are exposed as ESB to consumers. We used the client tools to setup the Datapower ESB with load balancing on the WAS 8.5 Server VIPs.  • Implemented the associated business modules using Spring MVC, and Hibernate data mapping.  • Implemented Cross Site Scripting Filter class to validate user input from CSRF attacks.  • Used Collection Framework features like Map, Object, List to retrieve the data from Web Service, manipulate the data to incorporate Business Logic and save the data to DB2 database.  • Incorporated the Web Services in Mule ESB based on SOA architecture.  • Implemented Mule ESB flow to gather the Auto policy details and send the ID card details over MQ to third party external vendor.  • Involved managing authorization & authentication to system using LDAP servers.  • Log4j were used to log the various debug, error and informational messages at various levels.  • Impact Analysis of existing application to develop detailed specifications for enhancement of modules according to new requirements  • Responsible for production checkout and monitoring the error rate using Splunk tool.  • Communicating with Business Analysts for gathering requirements and clarifications on the roadblocks. Maintained excellent communication skills as I am the single point of contact to the Business.  • Coordinating with the client as well as with offshore team and managing the deliverables and deadlines.  • Managing resources for different modules and providing status updates to the client.  • Providing the Production support and tracking post implementation defects.  • Doing peer code reviews.  • Actively using the client tools like Share Point, Lotus notes phase  • Working with SMEs (Subject Matter expects) to understand the business flows.  • Attending the client Stand up Meetings on daily basis.  • Project Planning and streamlining the resources accordingly and forecasting the resources for the pipeline projects.  • Scheduling weekly meetings with clients to discuss on the milestones, effort and deliverables.    Environment: JAVA 1.6, 1.7, 1.8, J2EE, EJB, Mule ESB, XML, Web services, MQ, Splunk, Windows 10, UNIX, Spring 3.2, JMS, DB2, Spring Boot, Micro Services, Maven, WebSphere 8.5, SVN, Jenkins, SOAPUI, RESTful Web Services. Tech Lead/Sr. Consultant United Services Automobile Association October 2011 to June 2012 Project: Claims compatibility with IOS devices  Project Description: The project aims at migrating web based .com pages of Claims to have compatible with iPad device, which involves developing the new JSPs of the existing screens to compatible with iPad device and have user friendly screens. Test the functionalities in iPad device with the new changes.    Responsibilities:  • Communicating with Business Analyst for gathering requirements and clarifications on the roadblocks.  • Analyzing the requirement and prepare design, Use Case Diagrams, Object Mapping Diagrams & Class Diagrams using UML.  • Worked on the EJB layer to incorporate the changes specific to IOS device.  • Modified the JSPs and JavaScript logic to make the application compatible with IOS device.  • Modified the CSS and HTML pages to make the application compatible with IOS device.  • Tested the application in IPAD device and compared the results with browser and mobile versions of the same application.  • Responsible for Metrics Reporting, created master charts for tracking major objectives along with significant action plans.  • Responsible for production checkout and monitoring the error rate using Splunk.  • Deriving competency development and training plan for the team to cater project requirements  • Develop project plans based on scope document and committed time lines in consultation with all the major stake holders    Environment: JAVA 1.4, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, EJB, JRF, Java Script, WebSphere, RSA, Spring framework, Splunk, Windows, UNIX, Struts, Web services Module Lead United Services Automobile Association March 2011 to September 2011 Project: Claims Legacy Migration  Project Description: The project aims to migrate the entire Claims application projects that are running under WebSphere Application Server 6 to WebSphere Application Server 7. This involves testing all the modules from start to end after the migration. In addition to that the existing CMPs are replaced with DAOs as part of architectural change.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for Requirement Analysis, Design, Development, and deployment.  • Modified the EJB layer of the code by replacing the existing CMPs with DAOs as part of architectural change.  • As part of server migration, fixed the dependency issues occurred during deployment into WAS7 server. Issues are related to DB connectivity and MQ compatibility issues.  • Fixed the defects occurred during functional testing due to incompatible jars.    Environment: JAVA, J2EE, XSLT, XML, Hibernate, Ajax, Web service, Struts, Spring framework. Web logic cluster Developer United Services Automobile Association August 2010 to February 2011 Project: Claims Legacy Migration  Project Description: The project aims to migrate the existing auto losses to new claims financial system with no business process architecture change. The new system will support all the business processes that the current system supports which includes the following. Migration of losses created in old Claims system (Databases) to the newly implemented Claims Legacy replacement system. To retain the integrity of time stamp of the loss created in the old system when mapped to the new Claims Legacy replacement system databases. After mapping the old losses, the data available in the old system will be removed from the retired legacy databases which will minimize the maintenance cost. All the old losses will be accessed by the new system for all claim transactions. Identify reports necessary to support business operations and replace or provide interfaces for those reports.    Responsibilities:  • Building Custom Components.  • Worked on the testing of the application functionality and fixing the defects.  • Implemented Business Layer to interact with DAO layer and UI layer.  • Developed EJB modules to implement the new business requirements.  • Preparing Design Document in UML in respective to the new changes as part of the new approach.    Environment: JAVA, J2EE, WebSphere, DB2, Windows, Linux Developer IDRBT June 2007 to July 2010 Project: Structured Financial Messaging System (SFMS) & NEFT  Project Description: Structured Financial Messaging System (SFMS) is a modularized and integrated web enabled multi-layered messaging software, facilitating the electronic exchange of financial and non-financial messages. SFMS is an Inter and Intra-Bank Messaging System with three-tiered architecture, interconnected among the Central Hub, Gateways, and Branches (Online/Offline) of the bank. The branches of the banks are connected to one of the gateways, and many such gateways are connected to a Central Hub. Any message originating from the branch of a bank will be routed to the Central Hub through its corresponding gateway. This message will then be routed from the Central Hub to the destination branch of another bank through its gateway. An acknowledgement from the destination bank is sent to the bank that sends the message.    Responsibilities:  • Maintenance of SFMS Help Desk which includes support, procedural questions, recovery & backup information and general consultation for problems reported by various banks.  • Analyzing and fixing productions defects for Monitoring.  • Done the performance tuning of the application as part of an issue with one leading bank which use the service maximum.  • Estimation, Impact Analysis and Coding for various Change Requests occurred by banks as per their own requirement needs    Environment: Java, EJB, Struts Framework, Java Script, Oracle 9i, MQ Server (Version 5.3), Tomcat, Windows and Solaris. Developer American Express October 2006 to May 2007 Project: AMEX-Membership Rewards  Project Description: The Membership Rewards® (MR) web site allows Card members to manage their MR accounts online as a sub function within MYCA Manage Your Card Account. Within the MR site, the following functionality is available: View MR Balance, Search for products and travel certificates, Real Time redemption of points for products, transfer points to Partner programs (i.e. Continental, Delta, etc.), Buy MR Points, Cash Rewards and Points Transfer.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in defects fixes and build issues.  • Involved in application regression testing.    Environment: Java, EJB, Struts Framework, Java Script, DB2, Windows XP and WebSphere 3.5. Education Master's Skills Java J2Ee, Spring, Hibernate, Java Certifications/Licenses Driver's License