Sr Java\J2EE Developer Sr <span class="hl">Java</span>\J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Java\J2EE Developer - People's United Bank Bridgeport, CT Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr Java\J2EE Developer People's United Bank - Bridgeport, CT June 2015 to Present Description:Premier Health is one of the largest US based pharmacy benefits Management Company(PBM). Premier Health is a Managed Care Organization (MCO) that focuses especially on the cost effective and appropriate delivery of prescription medications to the market. Premier assists its customers to moderate the cost and enhanced the quality of prescription drug benefits to the members nationwide    Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, design, development, testing/debugging and implementation  • Extensively used Scrum Programming concept which is part of Agile methodologies to work for every iteration and used continous integration tool to make the build passes before deploying the code to other environment.  • Designed business applications using web technologies HTML, XHTML, CSS, VXML, BootStrap, Java Script, Anjular JS, Ext JS, JQuery, Ajax based on the W3C standards.  • Designed the application by implementing Spring Framework based on MVC Architecture.  • Skilled in using Jira Atlassian Agile development software to meet sprint goals.  • Java Server Faces is java based web application framework intended to simplify development integration of web-based interface  • Prime Faces is used for Java Server Faces UI Framework, Zero Configuration for getting Started, creating the applications and for Populating and Capturing data.  • Developed application using Spring framework that leverages that classic ( Model view controller MVC ) architecture.  • Implemented features like logging , user session validation using Spring-AOP module. Used spring security framework for authentication and authorization of the application.  • Used Spring core for dependency injection/Inversion of Control(IOC) and implemented using spring Annotation.  • Spring Batch for scheduling and maintenance of batch jobs.  • Involved in batch processing using SpringBatch framework to extraxt data from database and load into corresponding Loan App tables.  • Extensively used Hibernate Query Language for data retrieval from the database and managed the transaction using Spring Hibernate Transaction Management.  • Used Hibernate ORM framework as persistence engine, configured O/R mapping and wrote hibernate queries.  • Worked in Test Driven Development (TDD) using JUnit.  • Extensively worked with XML schema, XQUERY, XSL/XSLT, XML to navigate in XML documents  • DOM4J to process and parse XML files.  • Developed unit test cases using Mockito framework for testing accuracy of code and logging is done using Log4j.  • Used Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exception and for logging info and are helpful in debugging the issues  • Compiled and built the application using Maven scripts and deployed the application.  • Used RESTfulWeb Services to communicate with different application.  • Responsible for writing the Design Specifications for the generic and application specific web services in Groovy  • Used Apache CXF as the web service framework to implement the Rest API involved  • Designed the project using MVC, Session Facade, Service Locator and Business Delegate patterns.  • Created set of classes using DAO pattern to decouple the business logic and data.  • Involved in coding, maintaining, and administering Servlets, JSF and JSP components.  • Developing database adapter, webservices adapter, ftp adapter, messaging adapter and custom workflow for non oracle system using Apache Camel.  • Designed and developed complex SQL queries, stored procedures, triggers & views  using MySQL. Expertise inTransact-SQL (DDL, DML, DCL)and in Design and Normalization of the database tables.  • Experience in implementing business logic using Triggers, Indexes, Views and Stored Procedures  • Experience with tools like SQL Server management studio and SQL server 2005/2008 integration (SSIS) and reporting services(SSRS)  • Extensive experience in driving the effort for major migrating including WAS Infrastructure 5.x to 6.x, 6.1 to 7.0 and WebSphere MQ 5.3 to 6.0  • service-oriented architecture (SOA) is an architectural pattern in computer software design in which application components provide services to other components.  • Developed unit test cases using Mockito framework for testing accuracy of code and logging is done using SLF4j + Log4j.  • Used GIT version control to maintain the different version of the application.  • Experience in multiplatform Unix environments, with hands-on expertise scripting, and systems integration  • Scheduling, Administration and Trouble shooting experience on Control M over distributed system, maintained and updated Jasper-iReports.  • Extensive experience in developing applications using Java and related technologies using WATERFALL and AGILE (SCRUM) methodologies  • Cucumber used with Selenium for automation testing.  • Actively involved in code reviews and bug fixing have administrative experience on Unix server.    Environment: Java 1.7, JSP, JSF, Spring 3.0, Spring Batch, Hibernate 3.1, Maven 3.0, Eclipse 3.5, RESTful Web Services, Design Patterns, WebSphere, SOA, Apache Camel Integration, HTML, My SQL, XHTML, VXML, CSS, Java Script, Angular JS, Ajax, JUnit, Log4j, Groovy, GIT, Cucumber, Selenium, Puppet, Perl scripting, Unix. Sr Java\J2EE Developer Vertafore Insurance - Denver, CO May 2014 to June 2015 Description: We developed an application to replace the existing manual process of initiating the loan application. It was a web based application that electronically submits documentation requests to the Loan Centers, electronically send detailed loan information from Loan Manager, plus additional information entered into the forms, to the new Loan Centre workflow process. This electronic submission process will take the place of the request form    Responsibilities:  • Involved in development activities using Core Java/J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JSF used for creating web application, XML and Springs.  • Experience in UI design and development and solid experience in Sencha ExtJS hands on AJAX  • Designed User Interface using HTML, CSS, Boot Strap, Java Script, Angular JS, XML, VXML, Java Server Faces (JSF).  • Involved Full Life Cycle of Software Development from Analysis through Design, Development, Integration and testing phases.  • Used Agile Methodology for application development and participated in Scrum.  • Developed the application implementing MVC Architecture, integrating JSF with Hibernate and Spring framework  • Developed services using Spring IOC and Hibernate persistence layer with Oracle 10g Database.  • Used Git as source management giving a huge speed advantage on centralized systems that have to communicate with a server.  • Used Oracle 10g as the database using Windows OS. Involved in the development of stored procedure.  • Prime Faces is used for Java Server Faces used for creating the applications  • Involving in batch processing using Spring Batch framework to validate feed files and load data into corresponding EBX5 tables.  • Designed SOAP Web services to support new capabilities for Banking Domain  • Used Log4j for logging across the application.  • Used Maven Script for build creation and to push onto various environment.  • Developed JUnit Test Case and performed extensive functional and unit testing code.  • Developed Maven Script to build and deploy the application onto Tomcat Server and ran UNIX shell script and implemented auto deployment process  • Data Source were configured in the app server and accessed from the DAO's through Hibernate  • Used Hibernate as ORM tool to map the database tables and developed DAO classes to connect the Database and integrated with Spring Framework.  • Experience in developing automated unit testing using Junit, EasyMock, PowerMock, Mockito frameworks.  • Used Selenium as automation tools for testing  • Perform software installation, upgrades/patches, troubleshooting, and maintenance on Unix servers.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, JSF, Servlets, Spring MVC 3.0, Spring Batch, Hibernate 3.0, SOAP Web services, WebSphere Application Server, Agile, SCRUM Methodology, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Anjular JS, Ext JS, Log 4j, Junit, AJAX, JSP, SVN, XML, VXML, Cucumber, Selenium, Unix Shell Scripting, Windows, Maven, and Oracle10g, Unix. Sr Java\J2EE Developer Premier Health Care October 2012 to April 2014 Description:Developing a web application PL RATER for Insurance agent. This application is accessible only by the agents i.e., they are the end user. The agents will be assigned log-in details through they can access the software. The agent enters the details from the clients such as driver details, car details, insurance coverage etc., and gets the quotes and insurance rating. This application covers home, auto and both insurance.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the requirements review meetings and partnered with business analyst to clarify any specific scenarios.  • Analyzed the business requirements and created use cases, prepared low and high level design documents.  • Participated in Scrum meetings and project planning and coordinated the status sessions.  • Responsible for creating Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams, Use Case diagrams, Object Model diagrams, and deployment diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Used HTML, CSS, JavaScript, ExtJS, AJAX, JQuery technologies for front end user input validations and Restful web service calls.  • Used Spring IOC for dependency injection and Spring AOP for cross cutting concerns like logging, security, transaction management.  • Used Spring MVC framework for implementing the Web tier of the application.  • Designed, developed and maintained the data layer using Hibernate and used Spring ORM to integrate with Hibernate.  • Developed annotation based mappings in Hibernate.  • Develop DAO service methods to populate the domain model objects using Hibernate.  • Increased performance of code by implementing Hibernate Named queries.  • Involved in the integration of frameworks like Spring and Hibernate.  • Used XML for the data exchange and used SAX and DOM parser to extract and read the required information from the XML.  • Developed Web Services using RESTful  • Developed Session Beans for the Business logic.  • Involved in creating, modifying and updating database tables in oracle 10g.  • Used WebSphere Application Server and involved in setting up the application server profiles in Eclipse for running the application on development environment.  • Developed Junit testcase.  • Used GITHUB for source control.  Environment: Java 1.6, J2EE, Spring 3.0, Hibernate 3.0, JSP, Servlets, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, ExtJS, IBM WebSphere application server, Webservices, Eclipse 3.5, SQL, Windows 7, Hibernate, XML, XSLT, WSDL, SOAP, UML, Github, Rational Rose. Java\J2EE Developer Tesla Health Care April 2009 to August 2012 Description:This project was to develop Ecommerce application that provides such as Group life Insurance, Disability insurance and Long Term Care Insurance. The application process new businesses, Claims and generation of bills. Implemented the extensive SOA platform using different SOA principles which includes insurance modules. Analyzing and transforming legacy applications into new technologies.  Responsibilities:  • Designed UML diagrams using Rational Rose software.  • Developed Web Pages using HTML 4.01, CSS.  • Worked with core Java code extensively using interfaces and multi-threading techniques.  • Involved in developing applications using Java, J2EE and Struts.  • Developed and configured the java Beans using Struts.  • Created Web.xml, Struts -config.xml, Validation.xml files to integrate all the components struts.  • Extensively used JSTL tag libraries.  • Involved in developing SOA web services using XML, XPATH, XSD, SOAP, WSDL and Apache Axis.  • Involved in the developing of MAVEN POM.XML files and deployment in JBoss Application Server.  • Developed SQL stored procedures and prepared statements for updating and accessing data from database.  • Conducted the SQL performance analysis on Oracle 10g database tables and improved the performance by SQL tuning.  • Implemented Client side Web services (SOAP).  • Deployed the application on the NetBeans IDE.  • Used Log4j for logging mechanism and developed wrapper classes to configure the logs.  • Used JUnit and Test cases for testing the application modules.  • Used SVN for version control.  Environment:J2EE, Java6, Struts, Servlets, JSP, Java Script, EJB 2.0, Web Services, CSS, Rational Rose, SOA, SOAP, Scrum, MAVEN, JBoss, Oracle 10g, SQL, Log4j, XML, XSD, HTML, JUnit, SVN, NetBeans IDE. Java\J2EE Developer S.S Software Solution - IN July 2008 to March 2009 Description:We have done a project called Net Auction (Online Bidding);Auction is a sale in which the seller presents his product on a public forum/platform. The selling price is determined by the bids made by the interested buyers. A potential buyer participates by bidding an item that a seller has listed. The person who has offered the highest bid at the close of the auction wins the right to purchase the item at that price. In this application, the registered users can login and perform the auction process  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirements gathering and Designed High and Low Level Designs using UML.  • Created UML use case diagrams, sequence diagrams, and preliminary class diagrams for the system using Rational Rose.  • Participated in the designing and developing of UI Screens using JSP 1.2, JavaScript and HTML/XHTML and Maven.  • Implemented Struts 1.0 Frame Work based on MVC paradigm.  • Developed presentation layer using JSPs and Struts MVC framework, Client side validations are done using JavaScript.  • Responsibility of developing code in JSP and EJB.  • Used J2EE design patterns like Value Object Pattern, session facade, Business delegate, Service Locator  • Coded JDBC calls in the servlets to access the Oracle database tables.  • Designed and developed Logging Framework to dynamically change logging levels to help in debug issues/errors using Log4j  • Used Clear case and perforce for software configuration management and version control of the development project.  • Analysis & study of the new enhancements and guiding the team on the requirements.  Environment: Java 1.5, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Struts1.0, Web Services, JavaScript CSS, HTML, AJAX, XML, SQL, Agile, Log 4j, Eclipse 1.6, WINDOWS XP. Education Bachelor's Skills CSS (9 years), DATABASE (9 years), HTML (9 years), J2EE (9 years), JAVA (9 years) Additional Information Professional skills:  • Sr. Java/J2EE Developer with 8 years of experience in all the phases of software development life cycle including design, development, integration, maintenance, implementation and testing of various client/server, N-tier and web applications.  • Expertise in J2EE - EJB, Spring, Struts 1.x/2.x and ORM tools like Hibernate.  • Having domain knowledge in the areas of Banking, Medical, Telecommunication and Finance.  • Strong experience on AGILE (SCRUM) and Waterfall SDLC.  • Expert level skills developing web based applications using Core Java,Servlets, JSP,JSF, Java Beans, EJB, Web Services, JDBC, HTML, XHTML, HTML5, VXML, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS,Node JS,BootStrap,AJAX and JQuery.  • Responsible for the technical direction and implementation of the Spring Batch Framework.  • Prime Faces is a open source User Interface library for Java Server Faces based application.  • Solid understanding and implementation experience of the RUP and Agile (SCRUM) methodologies.  • Utilized XML for data/content exchange, defining business rules, and application configuration through XSLT, SAX, DOM and JAXB APIs. Implemented RDBMS access via container managed beans and DAO.  • Proficient in writing SQL queries, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, Indexing, Normalization, Triggers, in Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g, SQL Server and MySQL databases, TOAD.  • Expertise in working with application servers and Web Servers as Web Logic, Web Sphere, Tomcat, Jboss, Jasper Reports java API for the reporting engine.  • Core development experience for Groovy Grails restful web services.  • Experience in configuration and administration using WebLogic, ApacheTomcat Application Servers.  • Experience in Spring Web Services with JAXB for marshalling and unmarshalling requests  • Good Experience in the development and Deployment of Session, Entity and Message driven Beans  • Extensive experience in design and development of MQSeries applications using MQSeries for Java and MQSeries JMS APIs & MOM (Message Oriented Middleware), Apache Camel Integration.  • Good knowledge with CVS, SVN, ClearCase and GIT version control systems.  • Worked on implementing Service Oriented Architecture(SOA) using Web Services (SOAP, REST, and UDDI).  • Worked on building and deploy tools - Ant, Maven, Jenkins build.  • Hands on experience in writing Unit Tests using JUnit, TestNG, Mockito. Working experience on Selenium, Cucumber, Control M and other Test Automation Frameworks.  • Strong experience in using Design patterns such as Business Delegate, Data Transfer Object, DAO, Session Facade, Factory Methods, Service Locator and MVC  • Experience in Java web frameworks JSF and PrimeFaces.  • Proficient in RDBMS concepts and experience in working with Oracle 9i/10g/11g, DB2 and My SQL PL/SQL, SQL*Plus, Database Indexing.  • Used Service Virtualized Tools like HP Service Test, and Service Virtualisation technologies like Lisa.  • Worked on bug tracking tools like JIRA.  • Oversaw tuning and performance monitoring for UNIX/Linux workstations, servers, and peripherals.  • Worked on with IDE tools such as Eclipse, NetBeans, IntelliJ.  • Excellent analytical and critical thinking, creative problem solving, quick learning, interpersonal and client interfacing skills.    Technical skills:    Programming Languages J2EE, JDK 1.6/1.7/1.8, C, C++  Application/ Web Server WebSphere6.x/5.x/4.x,WebLogic 9.2/10g/11g/12c, JBoss4.2/4.3/5.0/6.0, Apache Tomcat 4.0/5.x/6.x/7.x/8.0, AWS  Web technologies XML, VXML, XSLT, XSL, JAXB, HTML, CSS, Java script, Node JS, Angular JS, Ext JS, Perl Scripting, Unit Shell Scripting  Design Patterns  OOAD with UML, GOF/J2EE Design Patterns, Singleton, Proxy, Interface, Iterator, Facade, DAO, Business Delegate, Session Facade, Intercepting Filter, Service Locator    Framework Spring 2.0/2.5/3.0/3.1, Struts 1.2/2.0, EJB 2.0/3.0, Hibernate 3.0/3.2.  Web Service RESTful, SOAP, JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, JAXB, WSDL, UDDI, AWS  Testing JUnit, JProfiler, JTest,Selenium, Cucumber, Control M  IDE Tools  JBuilder, MyEclipse 5.x/6.6, Eclipse 4.x, Net Beans, Toad 4.0/8.5, Rational Application Developer (RAD), Rational Software Architect (RSA)    Databases Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g,PL/SQL,MySQL 4.x/5.x, DB2, NoSQL, Mongo DB.  Build Tools & Other Tools Ant, Maven, Jenkins, Puppet, Cloud Watch, Log 4j  Version Controls CVS, VSS, SVN, RationalClearCase, Git  Operating Systems Windows XP/NT/7/8/10, Unix, Linux