Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Verizon Wireless Dallas, TX • Around 9+ years of extensive experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Web Application Design, Development, Programming, Testing, Support Maintenance, and End-User support using java/J2EE technologies with WebSphere and WebLogic application servers.  • Proficiency in developing secure enterprise Java applications using technologies such as JSP, Servlets, JAVA Beans, C++, EJB, JMS, JNDI, JDBC, XML.  • Knowledge on business rules using Drools and business logic processing customs declarations.  • Implemented various J2EE design patterns like Service Locator, Session Façade, Data Access Objects (DAO), Factory, Singleton, Data Transfer Object (DTO), Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and Business Delegate in the development of Multi-Tier distributed Applications.  • Experience in modeling presentation tier using StrutsMVC2 (Model-View-Controller) architecture.  • Extensive experience with JMS Pub/Sub Environment.  • Skilled in WebLogic Application server, IBM WebSphere Application server and IBM WebSphere Portals  • Good knowledge in Angular JS, built application service layer using AngularJS Dependency Injection.  • Designed and developed the application using Java Server Faces (JSF) framework and Spring web flow.  • Strong Database skills with Oracle with ER-WIN, Toad tool for database modeling.  • Competence in using Java IDE tools: Rational Application Developer (RAD), Eclipse 4.x, IntelliJ 10.5 to develop dynamic web applications.  • Created forms and web pages using HTML5 and CSS3.  • Involved in rule authoring in Rule Studio, Rule Designer and Decision Center.  • Designed and developed client applications for the ODM Rule apps.  • Experience in working with the NoSQL, Mongo DB, Apache Cassandra.  • Experienced in IBM WebSphere ESB and Mule ESB Enterprise Service Bus Technologies.  • Experience in Business Process and Decision Management Design using JBoss, JBPM and JBoss Drools Rules Engine.  • Instrumental in implementation and deployment of a multi-tenant software as a service (SaaS).  • Experience with messaging middleware and data grids (e.g. IMDGs such as Hazelcast, Infinispan, Grid Gain, GigaSpaces, Gemfire, Terracotta, Coherence) preferable.  • Used Rule designer for rule flow design, coding and developing applications.  • Responsible for Integration testing and System testing By using IBM ODM Rule Designer 8.0, IBM WebSphere, JRule, JDK 1.7, Core Java, XML, XSD, Oracle.  • Developed ANT scripts in to build and deploy J2EE Applications.  • Expertise on entire Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) in Intranet and Internet applications using Web/Application Servers like Tomcat, JBoss, WebSphere, WebLogic and Portlets Application Server.  • Extensive Knowledge on databases like Oracle IBM DB2, NoSQL and MySQL. Experience in writing complex SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions.  • Experience in SOAP, JAX-RPC, JAXB, JAXP (XML binding technologies), XML and WSDL using IBM-MQ (messaging technology) series for developing Web Services.  • Hands on experience working with the UI technologies like HTML, JavaScript, JSF, JSP tag libraries.  • Sound Knowledge of Bootstrap Framework for Responsive Web Applications.  • Expertise in SOA, MVC frameworks using Spring and Struts.  • Worked with servers IBM web sphere, web logic, JBoss and Apache's Tomcat.  • Developed ANT scripts, and used MAVEN tool to build and deploy J2EE Applications.  • Involved in writing javaAPI for Amazon Lambda to manage some of the AWS services.  • Experience in Enterprise Integration Development using Apache Camel Framework. Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Verizon Wireless - Dallas, TX January 2016 to Present Project Description: Verizon Wireless, a wholly owned subsidiary of Verizon Communications, that offers wireless telecommunications products and services. This project is to provide a range of engineering services across the entire product life cycle, starting from conception, design, development, and testing, to maintenance and support all to address specific needs as customer products mature.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the analysis, design and development and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  • Use Agile (SCRUM) methodologies for Software Development Lifecycle of the dynamic J2EE project.  • Involved in Developing of Application based on J2EE using Hibernate and Spring framework.  • Worked on Restful web services using Node.js and implemented mock services in Node.js with help of modules using Node.js server.  • Designed and developed the UI using spring view component, JSP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript, AJAX, JSON.  • Design, coded and tested key modules of the project using java oops concepts, JSP.  • Implemented the Project structure based on Spring MVC pattern using spring boot.  • Developed Micro services using RESTful services to provide all the CRUD capabilities.  • Build Micro services for the delivery of Purchase Order module using spring cloud.  • Followed Spring Boot MVC Rest framework to develop the application flow for the project Worked with the Unix Solaris/Linux admin team to perform Oracle migration from Sybase.  • Developed the user interface components using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery & created custom tags.  • Built interfaces using Apache Camel framework and JMS.  • Proficient in TDD (Test Driven Development) by writing test cases using Jasmine, J-Unit Framework Working as a Full Stack developer using JavaScript frameworks AngularJS 2 and Node.Js.  • Involved in creating ruleset using Ilog Jrules.  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Angular JS 2, and JSON.  • Used jQuery, Ajax for service calls on pages to interact with the servers.  • Implemented XML-based communications protocol using JAXB.  • Used Maven as the build tool, GIT for version control, Jenkins for Continuous Integration and JIRA as a defect tracking tool.  • Involved in using CVS, Git, for project management and version management.  • Configured Maven for Java automation projects and developed Maven Project Object Model (POM).  • Developed REST API for test server for Express Router middleware based API's with Mongo DB integration.  • Planning and setting up of Continuous Integration for various properties on Jenkins with Commit, Component, Assembly, deploy and Smoke jobs.  • Developed REST services to talk with adapter classes and exposed them to the angular JS 2.0 front-end.  • Worked on Restful web services which enforced a stateless client server and support JSON few changes from SOAP to RESTFUL Technology Involved in detailed analysis based on the requirement documents  • User interface coding and styling using Angular JS 2 , CSS and Bootstrap template.  • Platform; configured the 10 nodes - 3 Web servers, 4 Kafka brokers and 3 Kafka consumers(Spark Strersming(DataFrames) with 3 Zookeeper nodes; Kafka brokers able to sustain 1 million wirtes per second  • peak period for proprietary IoT device analytics plafotom for 4G LTE KI indicator(over 200); researched and codified the Kafka Consumer using KafkaConsumer API 0.10 and KafkaProducer API 0.10( Java); designed the Spark Streaming and KafkaProducer interfaces - for multithreaded partitions and multiple topics by smartphone manufacturer device type; competitive analysis of Storm, Spark, Flink, Samza for processing  • messages(once only), replay and lost message management, horizontal scalability, security, message sequencing;  • coordinated Kafka operationa and monitoring(via JMX) with dev ops personnel; formulated balancing  • Extensively involved in the development of backend logic or data access logic using Hibernate and thus creating the object relational mapping with the Java beans in the application.  • Worked on performance tuning of Web Agents, Policy Servers, Policy Stores and User Stores to meet and maintain operational requirements (process, thread, connection, cache).  • Created all the complex SQL commands and Stored Procedures to retrieve data from the Oracle database.  • Developed ANT scripts for building application WAR/EAR for deploying on Weblogic server  • Designed and developed the RESTFul web services using the JAX-RS API to communicate over the network.  • Involved in all the test cases using the framework Junit and fixed any bugs or any issues identified during the testing period.  Environment: J2EE/ java 1.7, 1.8, JSP, Web Center , Hybris 5.5, Spring MVC, EJB, Spring , Web Services (WSDL, XSLT, XML, SOAP, REST), JUnit, Ant , Maven , IBM Websphere, CVS, SVN , XML, JSON, XML, Eclipse IDE. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer SELENE FINANCE - Houston, TX July 2014 to December 2015 Description: The project deals with customer credit card system. Also helps customers to view their statements, search transactions, download statements, download transactions, view the recent transactions and can do the balance transfers online. The project Online Investment Service (OIS) was designed to facilitate trading in short term paper (Mutual funds, Repos, CDs, Commercial Paper, CRA, and Time Deposits) for high net worth corporate and individual customers. The system comprised Trading desks that were created internally (logical entity) to handle region specific customers and business entities namely Broker were created to provide an interface for the clients to place orders.  Responsibilities:  • Coordinate with all the teams to maintain knowledge on all functional requirements and ensure compliance to all architecture standards.  • Processed the data in SAS for the given requirement using SAS programming concepts.  • Developed and implemented all software models for all software systems and analyze all business requirements for all processes.  • Responsible for creating and maintaining the regular expressions used by the URL rewriting engine of Ovi Share that enabled RESTful URLs for the website and its web services.  • Developed applications using latest technologies like Spring 4.0, Hibernate3.X (using annotations), and REST based Webservices (axis2.0, JAX WS 2.0), ( ILOG, BLAZE), XML API and tools.  • Used JSF framework in developing user interfaces using JSF UI Components, Validator, Events and Listeners.  • One of the programming lead in designing, implementing and maintaining the java application phases.  • Worked on spring framework to design and develop the business services.  • Implemented Spring ORM for integrating Hibernate ORM tool.  • Developed rule modules using Rule Engines, Drools.  • Responsible for the smooth running of the below systems currently in place. - Opera PMS - Micros POS 9700 - Micros Fidelio Materials Control - Micros Fidelio Property Interface System - Infor Sun Systems 5 - Direct-Streams.  • Design and development web-application for business reporting and systems monitoring and troubleshooting; using J2EE, Tomcat, Sybase ASE, Sybase Replication Server, IBM MQ Java.  • Worked with third-party services like Content Manager on Demand (CMOD) and PDF BOX tool.  • Strong experience of developing data models using Hibernate POJO's, configuring Hibernate persistence layer,  • Effective use of hibernate (ORM tool) in the business layer in communicating with the Spring DAO and also developed mapping files and POJO java classes using ORM tool.  • Worked on MVC Architecture like struts, Spring framework, JSF  • Configured local Maven repositories and multi-component Ant projects with Nexus repositories and scheduled projects in Jenkins for continuous integration.  • Working on Micros Integration Service including Retail ERP Integration with MICROS XCenter/ Xstore POS System  • Responsible for developing the full stack (from the Markup, JavaScript, Application Services, Database, and Build Scripts).  • Design and development of different modules for Straight Thru Trades Processing system, using Sybase ASE, Perl, Java( JSP, JDBC, Swing ).  • Experienced in working with Tomcat, WebSphere and IIS web servers  • Built Java applications using ANT and Maven and deployed JAVA/J2EE applications through Tomcat Application servers.  • Designed and developed a RESTful API for parsing out the country code on a mobile number, using Java and the Glass Fish web service framework.  • Used Java Enterprise edition (Eclipse) for development of Java and have hands on experience on it.  • Used IBM-DB2 to retrieve the data from and Oracle 10g has been used to safe the final results into the database.  • Created a light front-end framework against the JSON API for their service request portal using Backbone.js. Test-drove all front-end code using Jasmine.  • Responsible for the full stack (front end development, application logic, services, data persistence)  • Utilized Hibernate for Object/Relational Mapping purposes for transparent persistence onto the Server database.  • Used the ODWEK java API and used the predefined modules of the tool to retrieve the required reports.  • Tested the application JUNIT and that was build using Maven.  • Used JUnit framework for Unit testing of application.  • Developed WCM Custom Components using WCM API  • Participated in development of a well responsive single page application using JavaScript, and jQuery in conjunction with HTML5, CSS3 standards, with front-end UI team  • Design, investigation and implementation of public facing websites on Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Used Multithreading and collections to improve performance of application.  • Expertise in using Dojo and JavaScript in WebSphere Portal and WCM.  • Extending Hive and Pig core functionality by writing custom UDFs  • Worked on Eclipse for development and deployment of application in Web Logic Application Server.  Environment: Core Java, Multithreading, Concurrency, Exception Handling, J2EE, JSP, CSS3, HTML, JQuery, AngularJS, AJAX, Hibernate, Java SDK, Web Logic, SOA, Micro Services, WSDL, UDDI, SOAP, JavaScript. Java/J2EE Developer Insurance Auto Auctions - Westchester, IL July 2013 to June 2014 Project Description: Developed Java based enterprise applications, services, and infrastructure for client. This is the migration project from WebSphere deployed web service to JBoss EAP web services using ESB support. Also involved in enhancements for existing web applications using Angular JS, Bootstrap and JQuery on front end and build rest based services using Spring MVC, IOC and AOP, EJBs, Servlets for middle tier.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirements gathering and analysis from the existing system. Captured requirements using Use Cases and Sequence Diagrams.  • Developed the application using Struts, Servlets and JSP for the presentation layer along with JavaScript for the client side validations.  • Managed maven environment by setting up local, remote and central repositories with required configuration in maven configuration files.  • Refactored existing project to make it more RESTful and thread-safe.  • Developed and used JSP custom tags in the web tier to dynamically generate web pages.  • Worked with Struts (MVC Paradigm) components such as Action Mapping, Action class, Dispatch action class, Action Form bean.  • Designed RESTful XML web service for handling AJAX requests.  • Used Spring to manage beans to use windows session state framework to persist session to the database.  • Used Spring IOC and MVC for enhanced modules.  • Used Maven for build framework and Jenkins for continuous build system  • Created a foundation for modularized html, CSS, and javascript which enabled migration of the existing UI  • Access from the mainframe to the distributed system was through socket programming.  • Implemented spring service layer with dependency wiring, transaction, DAO and annotations.  • Used Hibernate to do the object relational mapping between the tables and java objects.  • Developed web applications using Rational Application Developer (RAD) and deployed it in web sphere application server5.1  • Developed Interactive web pages using AJAX and JavaScript.  • Deployed and tested the application with web server Tomcat, WebSphere.  • Expertise in Agile and Waterfall Software Development Methodology including Scrum technology  • Experienced in using WSAD, RAD, RSA, Net Beans, and Eclipse IDE for Application development.  • Wrote Test Cases using JUNIT as a framework.  • Used Maven for build framework and Jenkins for continuous build system.  • Develop test automation programs for HD video conferencing products using Java/JUnit 4, Selenium, and Android instrumentation.  • Developed GUI using Front end technologies like JSP, JSTL, AJAX, HTML, CSS ,Jquery and Java Script.  • Developed a code for Web services using XML, SOAP and used SOAPUI tool for testing the services proficient in testing Web Pages functionalities and raising defects.  • Participated in Code Reviews for better quality assurance and Debugged the application Module.  • Deployed the application on WebLogic server.  • Developed the Web services using SOA.  • Experience using and creating custom scripts and applications using the AWS SDK and/or CLI Tools.  • Experience in developing scripts using RESTful API models for the purposes of integrating workflows with AWS.  • Designed and Developed a Data Interface switch written in C/C++to convert dBase database calls into Oracle ODBC calls. This switch is used to connect to Oracle database from a dBase application.  • Implemented JMS in order to generate appointment logs.  • Used Java Messaging artifacts using JMS (MQ Series) for sending out automated notification emails to respective users of the application.  • Configured WebSphere for messaging by defining Queue Destinations & Queue Connection Factories.  • Used Log4J to print info, warning and error data on to the logs.  Environment: JSP, Core Java, Servlets, Spring Core, Spring MVC, WSDL, SOAP based Web Services, IBM MQ, JSF, Hibernate, Spring Security, Jenkins, Angular JS, OPA, XML, XSLT. Java Developer Report Center - Pay Chex Inc - Webster, NY June 2011 to June 2013 Project Description: This project is to provide a range of engineering services across the entire product life cycle, starting from conception, design, development, and testing, to maintenance and support - all to address specific needs as customer products mature.  Responsibilities:  • Identifying resources, and creating procedures, and processes to support clients in their use of Ad Hoc Report Writer.  • Support client users in creating templates and reports.  • Worked on JAX-WS, JAXB Web Services using SOAP.  • Allow users to share templates with other users and other companies taking into consideration the security rules applied to the user.  • Worked on EAI tools like Weblogic Integrator [WLI-2.1 and WLI-8.1 versions]  • Configured Struts/Spring/Hibernate frameworks.  • Created data model and generated Hibernate mappings and domain objects using Hibernate tools.  • Involved in requirements gathering, design, development and implementation.  • Utilized Spring Core, Spring MVC modules using Annotations and AJAX.  • Front end development using HTML, Java Script, and CSS and DOJO.  • Used Hibernate as ORM tool to manage data and NoSQL database.  • Automated Unit testing done using JUnit.  • Created timesheet-approval table using jQuery tree table plugin.  • Performing client usability testing of Data views where the presentation of the data must be understood by both small market and mid-market users.  • Providing procedures for handling numerous requests to create data export templates on behalf of clients.  • Extensively worked on UML designing.  • Written PL/SQL queries to load the XML Patent data into DB.  • Deployed WAR applications in Web Logic.  Environment: Java, Struts, J2ee, Tiles, LDAP, WebLogic, EJB, CVS, GIT, Jenkins, Javascript, Ant, Core Java-Multithreading, XML, JavaScript, AJAX, Maven, JDBC, Struts, GUI, Python. Java/J2EE Developer Systel Solutions March 2009 to April 2011 Description: Systel Solutions is the provider of integrated business, technology, and process solutions on a global delivery platform. In this project an application is developed to integrate RSS feeds into home page. This deals with retrieving feeds from different websites, (which a user subscribes to) store it in a database, and display on the web page.  Responsibilities:  • Performed analysis for the client requirements based on the developed detailed design documents.  • Developed Use Cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Data Models using Microsoft Visio.  • Developed STRUTS forms and actions for validation of user request data and application functionality.  • Developed JSP's with STRUTS custom tags and implemented JavaScript validation of data.  • Developed programs for accessing the database using JDBC thin driver to execute queries, Prepared statements, Stored Procedures and to manipulate the data in the database  • Involved in developing business tier using stateless session bean.  • Used JavaScript for the web page validation and Struts Valuator for server side validation  • Designing the database and coding of SQL, PL/SQL, Triggers and Views using IBMDB2.  • Design patterns of Delegates, Data Transfer Objects and Data Access Objects.  • Developed Message Driven Beans for asynchronous processing of alerts.  • Used Clear case for source code control and JUNIT for unit testing.  • The networks are simulated in real-time using an ns3 network simulator modified for multithreading across multiple cores, which is implemented on generic Linux machine.  • Involved in peer code reviews and performed integration testing of the modules.  • Worked on SAX/DOM parsers to parse RSS Feeds (XML) files.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Servlets, EJB, Spring, Hibernate, JMS, Apache Axis, SOAP, REST, HTML, JavaScript, JDBC, PL/SQL, XML, UML, UNIX, Oracle 10g, WebSphere application server 7.0, Tomcat, Maven, SVN Java/J2EE Developer E- Hospitals June 2007 to February 2009 Responsibilities:  • Carried out requirement specification, design, analysis, implementation and testing  • Designed UML Class Diagrams and Use Case Diagrams to understand the code easily.  • Used Servlets to implement Business components.  • Designed and Developed required Manager Classes for database operations  • Developed various Servlets for monitoring the application.  • Designed and developed the front end using HTML and JSP  • Developed XML files, DTDs, Schema's and parsing XML by using both SAX and DOM parser.  • Wrote deployment descriptors using XML and Test java classes for a direct testing of the Session and Entity beans.  • Did Packaging and Deployment of builds through ANT script.  • Wrote stored procedure and used JAVA APIs to call these procedures.  • Database designing that includes defining tables, views, constraints, triggers, sequences, index, and stored procedures.  Environment: Struts 1.1, EJB 2.0, Servlets 2.3, JSP 1.2, SQL, XML, XSLT, Web Services, JAXB, SOAP, WSDL, JMS1.1, JavaScript, TDD, JDBC, Oracle 9i, PL/SQL, Log4J, JUnit, WebLogic, Eclipse, Rational XDE, SVN, Linux. Education Bachelor's Skills HTML (10+ years), J2EE (10+ years), JAVA (10+ years), JAVASCRIPT (10+ years), JUNIT (10+ years), Java J2Ee, Hibernate, Angular, Spring, Rest Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES:    ? C, C++, Java & J2EE  ? Struts, JSF and Spring  ? Oracle DB2, MySQL and SQL Server  ? WSDL, SOAP, AXIS, JAX-WS, REST-Jersey, UDDI, and WS-Security.  ? Hibernate, iBatis  ? JUNIT, Mockito, SOAP UI  ? XML, DTD, XSD, XSLT, JAXP (DOM & SAX) and JAXB  ? HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSP, JQUERY, DOJO and Taglibs.  ? UML - Rational Rose, MS Visio, JUDE  ? Eclipse, My Eclipse, Net Beans and RAD, Mule ESB  ? SVN, CVS and IBM Clear Case  ? QC, Jira, Rally, Clear Quest  ? Web sphere, Web Logic, Apache Tomcat & HTTP Server  ? WIN DOS and Windows 7