Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java/J2EE Developer - SterlingBackcheck Tampa, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java/J2EE Developer SterlingBackcheck - Independence, OH September 2018 to Present Project: CORE (Common Opportunities, Results and Experiences) is dynamic web-based system that reacts to information and guidelines to manage the loan process. Allows Sales &Fulfillment to work together more effectively, viewing the same documents and information online, reducing processing time and improving communication. Core Provides Wells Fargo Home Mortgage a distributed and centralized retail system with business process and workflow are other major components of the system. Analyzing and transforming legacy applications into new technologies. Designing and developing automated web solutions using Java, ESB, Spring, AngularJS, Oracle, Apache CXF REST and SOAP services    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as requirement gathering, data modeling, analysis, architecture design & development for the project  • Used Spring Framework in the application, which is based on MVC design pattern.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSTL and Custom Tag Libraries and AJAX JQuery to speed the application.  • Used JQuery to manipulate the DOM objects for User interface look and feel and for Ajax calls.  • Developed Single Page Application (SPA) using Angular Js.  • Involved in developing Custom Directives using Angular Js.  • Used Spring Framework in the application, which is based on MVC design pattern.  • Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection, security features and integrated with the Hibernate framework.  • Extensively used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Created Business to Business communication by encapsulating SOAP Web services in Java File and Stateless Session Beans.  • Test Web Services using SOAP UI.  • Worked on generating the web services classes by using Service Oriented Architecture SOA, UDDI.  • Development of Spring Bootiful applications with microservices  • Designed and coded Java microservice to run R-scripts; microservice was done using test driven development and reading messages via RabbitMQ  • Extensively worked on form validation using the Spring Validator framework.  • Used the Struts Validator framework for validating the forms.  • Used JMS (MQ Series) for sending out automated notification emails to respective users of the application.  • Designed and implemented scalable, secure cloud architecture based on Amazon Web Services.  • Scaling solution using Amazon's EC2 and S3 web services.  • Define and implement monitoring solutions for Cassandra  • Designed and implemented NoSQL Cassandra keystores and column families.  • Implementation of Elastic search using Spring in internal business applications.  • Involved in Performance Tuning of the database.  • Developed Scripts for customizing reports depending upon various customer requirements.  • Responsibilities include design for future user requirements by interacting with users, as well as new development and maintenance of the existing source code.  • Used MAVEN to build the application.  • Created Auto deploy jobs using Jenkins and Gradle.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4J and fixed the problems.  • Developed the different components of application using Rational Application Developer (RAD) 7.5 and used GIT for version control.  • Unit tested the applications before release to QA.  • Worked with Quality Assurance team in tracking and fixing bugs    Environment: Java/J2EE, Tomcat 7.0, CA Rally, Spring 3.1, Perl, Hibernate 3.2, JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, HTML, JMS, XML/XSLT, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, Web Services, PL/SQL, JDBC, UML, JNDI, Jquery, Ajax, Maven, Jenkins, ANT, GIT, Log4J, Unix , AWS, Microservices, Cassandra, Angular Js. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Kerio Technologies Inc - San Jose, CA October 2017 to August 2018 Project: The major module of the Intranet web application is Customer Satisfaction Survey Report, Contribute application and Service catalogue application which is based on the feedback given by the customers of the organization. Based on the information, reports were generated for the management to view the consolidated information on various aspects of the organization. The application also maintained complete employee details and in a way implemented HR Management for the company. Worked on building application using Spring framework, Angular Js, Hibernate, REST, SOA architecture.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as requirement gathering, data modeling, analysis, architecture design & development for the project  • Responsibilities include analysis of these various applications, co-ordination with client , meetings with business users  • Worked in Agile Environment.  • Used Spring Framework in the application, which is based on MVC design pattern.  • Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection, security features and integrated with the Hibernate framework.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection and used Apache Camel to integrate Spring framework.  • Used Spring AOP in case of logging and security.  • Extensively used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Written the Java Script, HTML, DHTML, CSS, Servlets, and JSP for designing GUI of the application.  • Worked in responsive Design application using different HTML5 media queries for different mobile devices for different sizes  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSTL,JSF tags and Custom Tag Libraries and AJAX JQuery, Angular JS to speed the application.  • Used Jquery, Angular Js to manipulate the DOM objects for User interface look and feel and for Ajax calls.  • Implemented various design patterns in the project such as Business Delegate, Data Transfer Object, Data Access Object, Service Locator and Singleton.  • Worked on generating the web services classes by using Service Oriented Architecture SOA, UDDI.  • Extensive experience in developing the SOA middleware based out of Mule ESB.  • Used JMS (MQ Series) for sending out automated notification emails to respective users of the application.  • Used PL/SQL to manage data and create tables  • Used MAVEN to build the application.  • Unit testing is accomplished through Junit and MOCKITO to test the different layers of the application.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4J and fixed the problems.  • Involved in Proof of concept building REST services using Node Js and Mongo DB.  • Exported Relational stores data to non-relational stores like Mongo DB.  • Developed the different components of application using Rational Application Developer (RAD) 7.5 and used SVN for version control.    Environment: Java/J2EE, WebLogic, SOA, Spring 3.1, Perl, Hibernate 3.2, JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, HTML, JMS, XML, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, Web Services, PL/SQL, JMS, UML, JNDI, Jquery, Ajax, Maven, ANT, CVS, Log4J, Unix ,Angular Js, JSF, Apache Camel, Node Js, Mongo DB Mocha/chai, Heroku. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Citi Bank - San Jose, CA June 2015 to September 2017 Project: The project is Collection Compliance Program. It's a dialer program targeted for the delinquent loans and loss mitigation loans customers of mortgage loans by calling their phone number. The contacting types are dialing and manual. Manual calling will be done by call centers. Application also allows customers with many options for managing consumer credit card finances.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as requirement gathering, data modeling, analysis, architecture design & development for the project  • Responsibilities include analysis of these various applications, co-ordination with client , meetings with business users  • Worked in Agile Environment.  • Used Spring Framework and JSF Framework in the application, which is based on MVC design pattern.  • Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection, security features and integrated with the Hibernate framework.  • Extensively used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Written the Java Script, HTML, DHTML, CSS, Servlets, and JSP for designing GUI of the application.  • Worked in responsive Design application using different HTML5 media queries for different mobile devices for different sizes  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSTL,JSF tags and Custom Tag Libraries and AJAX JQuery, Angular JS to speed the application.  • Used JQuery ,Angular JS to manipulate the DOM objects for User interface look and feel and for Ajax calls.  • Implemented various design patterns in the project such as Business Delegate, Data Transfer Object, Data Access Object, Service Locator and Singleton.  • Used PL/SQL to manage data and create tables  • Performed unit testing using Junit framework  • Implemented RESTFUL web services using Angular JS  • Used MAVEN to build the application.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4J and fixed the problems.  • Developed the different components of application using Rational Application Developer (RAD) 7.5 and used SVN for version control.  • Developed the different components of application using STS 3.4 and used SVN for version control.    Environment: Java/J2EE, Tomcat 7.0,STS 3.4,RAD 7.5, Spring 3.1, Perl, Hibernate 3.2, JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, HTML, JMS, XML, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, Web Services, PL/SQL, JDBC, UML, JNDI, Jquery, Ajax, Maven, ANT, CVS, Log4J, Unix ,Angular JS,JSF 1.2 Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Genisco Technology - Anaheim, CA November 2012 to June 2015 Project: The Employees Benefit Trust Fund administers health care benefits to eligible Commonwealth of employees, retirees and their dependents. Here, I involved in implementing increased services to make it more efficient, adding new services, enabling SSO, making the portal more informative, interactive, user friendly for creating the new custom policies and changing some of the existing custom policies. I also involved in implementing the inbound and outbound of the enrollment information.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as requirement gathering, data modeling, analysis, architecture design & development for the project  • Responsibilities include analysis of these various applications, co-ordination with client and offshore team, meetings with business users, functional and technical guide to the offshore team, project management.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSTL and Custom Tag Libraries and AJAX JQuery to speed the application.  • Used JQuery to manipulate the DOM objects for User interface look and feel and for Ajax calls.  • Used Spring Framework in the application, which is based on MVC design pattern.  • Used Spring Framework and spring Security and spring web flow in the application, which is based on MVC design pattern for developing the security applications  • Used RSA web service to develop the standard Development kit on top of the RSA services.  • Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection, security features and integrated with the Hibernate framework.  • Used CXF for the web service development in the application.  • Extensively used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Used UML to create class ,action and sequence diagrams  • Written the Java Script, HTML, DHTML, CSS, Servlets, and JSP for designing GUI of the application.  • Used JMS API for asynchronous communication by putting the messages in the Message queue  • Designing and developing the JMS objects and used MQ Series as provider  • Used LDAP for Directory Services.  • Implemented various design patterns in the project such as Business Delegate, Data Transfer Object, Data Access Object, Service Locator and Singleton.  • Designed various tables required for the project in Oracle database and used Stored Procedures in the application.  • Used PL/SQL to manage data and create tables  • Performed unit testing using Junit framework  • Implemented JAX Web services by applying SOA concepts in conjunction with SOAP.  • Implemented JAX Web services using Apache CXF.  • Used MAVEN to build the application.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4J and fixed the problems.  • Developed the different components of application using Rational Application Developer (RAD) 7.5 and used SVN for version control.    Environment: Java/J2EE, Tomcat 7.0,RAD 7.5, Spring 3.1, Perl, Hibernate 3.2, JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, HTML, JMS, XML, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, Web Services, PL/SQL, JDBC, UML, JNDI, Jquery, Ajax, Maven, ANT, CVS, Log4J, Unix Java/J2EE Consultant Conceptus Inc - Mountain View, CA June 2010 to October 2012 Project: Services  Responsibilities  • Responsible for understanding and execution of requirements  • Was also actively involved in setting coding standards and writing related documentation.  • Developed the Java Code using JBuilder as IDE.  • Writing the code & JUnit test cases & running the JUnit test suites  • Developed JSPs and Servlets to dynamically generate HTML and display the data to the client side. Extensively used JSP tag libraries.  • Used Struts framework in UI designing and validations  • Developed Action Classes, which acts as the controller in Struts framework.  • Was responsible in implementing various J2EE Design Patterns like Service Locator, Business Delegate, Session Facade and Factory Pattern.  • Responsible for designing JApplets using SWING and embedding them into the web pages  • Code Review & Debugging using JBuilder & MS JavaScript Debugger.  • Finding the performance issues using JProfiler & Enhancement for the same  • Was responsible for developing and deploying the EJB (Session & MDB)  • Configured Queues in WebLogic server where the messages, using JMS API, were published.  • Consumed Web Services (WSDL, SOAP, UDDI) from third party for authorizing payments to/from customers.  • Designing and developing the JMS objects and used Tibco as provider  • Writing the ANT build scripts for the deployment of EJB.  • Followed XP Methodology for development.  • Writing/Manipulating the database queries, triggers, stored procedures etc    Environment: Java, J2EE, WebLogic Application Server 7.0, Oracle, EJB, JSP1.1, HTML, JavaScript, Swing, Servlets, UML, XML, JBuilder, Struts. Java/J2ee Developer Morpho - Newark, CA February 2008 to May 2010 Responsibilities:  • Participate in the designing and development of various server side components JSP, Servlets, EJBs etc.  • Developed the User interface Templates using JSP, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, and DHTML  • Developed the Java Code using Eclipse as IDE.  • Participated effectively in the full life cycle development of the project including the testing of the project.  • Study the impact of the requirement and prepare the Requirement Analysis document.  • Developed JSPs and Servlets to dynamically generate HTML and display the data to the client side. Extensively used JSP tag libraries.  • Worked with Struts as a unified MVC framework and developed Tag Libraries.  • Used Struts framework in UI designing and validations  • Developed Action Classes, which acts as the controller in Struts framework.  • Involved in developing User Interface using JSP's, JavaScript for the pages.  • Gave on call support to the integration testing for any technical problems Involved in Designing of User Validation Process through JSP.  • Implemented forms classes to interact with the client & middle tier.  • Coded the business logic using the Enterprise java Beans (Session Beans) and used Session Façade Design Pattern.  • Designing and developing the JMS objects and used MQ Series as provider  • Used PL/SQL to make complex queries and retrieve data from Oracle database  • Used ANT scripts to build the application and deploy on Web Logic Application Server  • Designed, written and maintained complex reusable methods which implements stored procedures to fetch data from the database  • Prepare the Unit Test Case document / user handbook for test cases.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Struts, EJB, SQL server, Tiles, Web Services, Web Logic 8.1, Eclipse, JDBC, HTML, CSS, Ajax, Junit, XML, Ant, Red Hat Linux. Education Bachelor's Skills ANT (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), J2EE (10+ years), Java (10+ years), JMS (10+ years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Programming Languages: C, C++, JAVA, SQL, PL/SQL, Groovy  J2EE Technologies: EJB 1.1/2.0/2.1/3.0, Servlets 2.3/2.4, JSP 1.2/2.0,Maven, JSTL, JDBC, JSF 1.1/1.2, RMI 2.0, JNDI, JMS  Web Technologies: HTML, DHTML, XML, XSLT, CSS, DOM, SAX, AJAX, Angular Js  IDE Tools: IBM WSAD 7.0/7.5, RSA 6.x,7x Eclipse3.1, MyEclipse5.1, JBuilder, Dreamweaver  Distributed Computing RMI, EJB 1.0, 1.1 & 2.0  Application/Web Server: IBM Web Sphere 5.0/5.1/5.1.2, Web Logic 7.0/8.1, JBoss, Liferay Portal Server, Tomcat 7.0  Databases: Oracle 8i/9i/10G, DB2 7.1/8.2.1/9.1.1,SQL Server 05/08, Sybase, IBM Mainframes  Methodologies: UML, Rational Rose, RUP, Agile, SDLC  Operating Systems: Windows XP/2000/NT/98/95, Red Hat Linux 9, Solaris 10  Frameworks: Struts 1.1/1.2/2.0, spring 1.0/2.0/2.5/3.3, Hibernate 2.0/3.0/3.5, JUnit, Log4j, JSF 1.2, Jasmine  Other Tools Putty, TOAD, ANT, GIT, CVS, Clear Case, Clear Quest, PVCS, VSS