Sr. PHP Developer Sr. PHP <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. PHP Developer Chicago, IL ? 8+ years of experience in PHP Technology, HTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript, AJAX, Content Management System, LAMP technology, XAMP technology, MVC Framework and Android.  ? Experience in setting up PHP-Web Based Server.  ? Good experience in Team Foundation Server Automation Build and deployment.  ? Experience in AWS Services such as EC2 and S3.  ? Experienced in tools like GIT, SVN, CVS, DIMENSIONS.  ? Expert in developing front-end systems with JavaScript, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, MVC frameworks such as Angular JS and Node JS as a platform for Web applications  ? Extensive knowledge of WordPress, Magento and Drupal theme integration plug in manipulation  ? Excellent Experience in building Android Apps, PHP Apps using MVC Architecture.  ? Expertise in advanced JavaScript libraries and frameworks such as Angular JS, Node JS and Object Oriented Programming in JS.  ? Used Angular JS MVC Framework in the development of the web application to bind the data/model that was retrieved from a database through services provided in a controller to the view using scope.  ? Experience in developing UI applications using HTML, HTML5, JQuery, and AJAX, AngularJS.  ? Worked on Zend module development and customization.  ? Documented High Level Design and Detail Level Design based on Business requirements.  ? Expert PHP Development utilizing Zend, magento1.9, magento2.0, CakePHP, Laravel, CodeIgniter and Symphony frameworks  ? Maintained version control Software including test to production promotion model.  ? Experience with database SQL development and excellent knowledge working with relational database systems such as MySQL 5, Microsoft SQL Server 2012, Oracle, MariaDB and DB2  ? Working experience with setup & use of version control systems (SVN, GIT, CVS)  ? Experience in using various tools and IDEs for development and design like Visual Studio.  ? Solid Experience in common third-party APIs  ? Excellent experience developing responsive sites with HTML5 and CSS3  ? Strong programming experience in PHP 5, JavaScript/jQuery  ? Experience on code responsive designs using HTML5, CSS3, jQuery and similar frameworks  ? Worked extensively in application Software Analysis, Design, Development, and testing. Report Generation, Unit, System, Integration and Performance testing of the application and its components.  ? Proficiency in Prototype, Module Design, User Interface Design, and Integration of PHP components.  CORE TECH SKILLS:  ? LAMP, WAMP, Zend Framework PHP, Apache, GIT, Linux, Ubuntu, UNIX, JavaScript, Angular.js, Node.js, React.JS Backbone.js, D3.js, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap.js, EXT-JS, Ajax, JQuery , MySQL, Linux , Unix. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. PHP Developer Charter Communications - GE October 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Coding in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP) environment.  ? Develop web applications within a LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP) environment.  ? Developed the application on LAMP architecture.  ? Migrated internal operational IT from a legacy mainframe to a custom web-based application platform using LAMP open-source tools.  ? Extensively worked on PHP5, MySQL, Python, OOPS, Design Patterns, HTML5and CSS.  ? Worked on various no. of frameworks such as Wordpress, Joomla, Cake, Laravel, YII, Phalcon, Magento, Symphony framework and Codeignitor, Smarty.  ? Developed form modules using HTML 5, Bootstrap3, Select2, Validator and Laravel Collective for input controls.  ? Implemented new modules and themes into Drupal core to allow for rapid development.  ? Used HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and Ruby on client side.  ? Developed the middleware software components for the implementation of the Data Entry GUI for creating and editing medication instances using client side technologies viz. HTML, CSS, JavaScript  ? Worked in Agile based environment with daily scrum calls and coordination with the offshore team.  ? Experience with Mongo database using Mongo DB driver. Worked on Jackson library for object mapping (JSON to Java objects)  ? Developing JIRA plug-in for custom user management.  ? Providing a responsive, AJAX-driven design using JavaScript libraries such as jQuery, Angular.Js, Backbone.js and Bootstrap.js - Using Subversion (SVN) for version control.  ? Experience in developing application, automated scripts leveraging MongoDB.  ? Cloud Computing: Migration and maintaining Drupal sites in Acquia Server.  ? Used Drupal 6 7 8 Programs in PHP (among other languages) and Sugar  ? Implemented Workflows, Active Directory, Social media integrations.  ? Built Web Services APIs to integrate other Apps with Drupal.  ? Worked on Linux and UNIX platforms. Also worked with XML, XSD, and RESTful APIs  ? Utilized agile development methodologies.  ? Involved in Jenkins java plugin development, IT provisioning recipes, code configurations like GIT.  ? Involved in the development using Drupal, AWS and PHP.  ? Used JQuery for creating different menus and dialog boxes and also used different JQuery plugins for calendar, calculator and printing options.  ? Increased developer productivity by using efficient programming methodologies and local development.  ? Wrote cross browser compatible based CSS codes for styling the pages and menu bars.  ? Carried out extensive verification and testing in order to set MYSQL database free from SQL injections throughout course of database development and management.  ? Built AJAX pages using PHP to display current server time  ? Converted all user facing applications from Cold Fusion to PHP.  ? Normalized database tables and performed extensive query optimization.  ? Wrote front end HTML and CSS to meet validation requirements.  ? Maintained 24/7 high volume availability demands using open source tools such as Linux, Apache, PHP, and MYSQL.  ? Played a key role in guiding the company's marketing strategy and overall direction, which lead to its significant market share and successful buyout.  ? Created a marketing platform for promoting the business that became an industry standard.  ? Strongly used LAMP (Linux-Apache-MySQL-PHP) platform.  ? Used JPA Hibernate and spring to perform CRUD operation with MYSQL and perform persistence for Hazelcast cache.  ? Have broken down the application into multiple angular modules for simplicity purposes and have done unit tests using Jasmine  ? Worked on JDBC to select and update the data from the MySQL database  ? Developed framework using Java, BIRT Runtime, iText, MySQL and web server technologies.  Enviornment: WAMP, LAMP, Zend Framework, PHP, Apache,HTML, CSS, XML, React.JS, JavaScript, Node.js, JSON, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, Jasmine, Java, DB2, CRUD, PL/SQL, JDBC, Oracle, MySQL, MongoDB, Apache CXF, SOAP, Web Services, REST, Eclipse, Git, Github, Junit, Agile, Scrum, Maven Linux, Ubunto, UNIX. Sr. PHP LAMP Developer Verizon Wireless - Charlotte, NC August 2016 to September 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Developed/Design the application using LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL5 and PHP) architecture using Magento/Zend Framework.  ? Development in PHP, MySQL, HTML, CSS, Javascript, Jquery, AJAX, REST web services in AWS cloud environment.  ? Extensively worked on PHP5, MySQL, Python, OOPS, Design Patterns, HTML5and CSS.  ? Worked on various no. of frameworks such as Wordpress, Joomla, Cake, Laravel, YII, Phalcon, Magento, Symphony framework and Codeignitor, Smarty.  ? Developed form modules using HTML 5, Bootstrap3, Select2, Validator and Laravel Collective for input controls.  ? Implemented new modules and themes into Drupal core to allow for rapid development.  ? Used HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and Ruby on client side.  ? Developed the middleware software components for the implementation of the Data Entry GUI for creating and editing medication instances using client side technologies viz. HTML, CSS, JavaScript  ? Worked in Agile based environment with daily scrum calls and coordination with the offshore team.  ? Experience with Mongo database using Mongo DB driver. Worked on Jackson library for object mapping (JSON to Java objects)  ? Developing JIRA plug-in for custom user management.  ? Providing a responsive, AJAX-driven design using JavaScript libraries such as jQuery, Angular.Js, Backbone.js and Bootstrap.js - Using Subversion (SVN) for version control.  ? Experience in developing application, automated scripts leveraging MongoDB.  ? Cloud Computing: Migration and maintaining Drupal sites in Acquia Server.  ? Used Drupal 6 7 8 Programs in PHP (among other languages) and Sugar  ? Implemented Workflows, Active Directory, Social media integrations.  ? Built Web Services APIs to integrate other Apps with Drupal.  ? Worked on Linux and UNIX platforms. Also worked with XML, XSD, and RESTful APIs  ? Utilized agile development methodologies.  ? Involved in Jenkins java plugin development, IT provisioning recipes, code configurations like GIT.  ? Involved in the development using Drupal, AWS and PHP.  ? Used JQuery for creating different menus and dialog boxes and also used different JQuery plugins for calendar, calculator and printing options.  ? Increased developer productivity by using efficient programming methodologies and local development.  ? Wrote cross browser compatible based CSS codes for styling the pages and menu bars.  ? Carried out extensive verification and testing in order to set MYSQL database free from SQL injections throughout course of database development and management.  ? Built AJAX pages using PHP to display current server time  ? Converted all user facing applications from Cold Fusion to PHP.  ? Normalized database tables and performed extensive query optimization.  ? Wrote front end HTML and CSS to meet validation requirements.  ? Maintained 24/7 high volume availability demands using open source tools such as Linux, Apache, PHP, and MYSQL.  ? Played a key role in guiding the company's marketing strategy and overall direction, which lead to its significant market share and successful buyout.  ? Created a marketing platform for promoting the business that became an industry standard.  ? Development using Laravel PHP Framework on LAMP stack  ? Develop and maintain a lead aggregation system for marketing leads on various verticals using the CakePHP framework on a LAMP stack  ? Definition and develop of database ER-model, architecture and services with MySql, Api services and data driven website implementing LAMP stack environment.  ? Design and develop web application functionalities with Object Oriented design, MVC Zend framework and LAMP, PHP library.  ? Usage of version control repository Git, GitHub and JIRA  ? Developed backend applications with Node.js, MongoDB, CouchDB, Oracle, Apache, Java.  ? Worked on stored procedures, triggers, cursors, DB scheduler, PL/SQL, MySQL, JDBC, MS SQL Server.  ? Created tables, triggers, stored procedures, SQL queries, joins, integrity constraints and views for multiple databases, using MS SQL Server.  Enviornment: WAMP, LAMP, Zend Framework PHP, Apache,HTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript, AJAX, React.JS, JSON, Node.js, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, Cassandra, D3.js, Java, Oracle, CRUD, PL/SQL, MySql, MS-Sql, JDBC, MongoDB, Maven, Web Services, , SOAP, REST, Ant, RAD, Agile, Scrum, CVS, Eclipse, Subversion (SVN), Windows XP, Linux, UNIX, Ubunto. Jr. PHP Developer General Motors - Bloomfield, CT August 2015 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Developed GUI screens for XTT & LD application using JSP, HTML and CSS.  ? Development UI modules using HTML, JSP, JavaScript and CSS.  ? Developed, tested, and maintained current systems written in PHP and Codeigniter.  ? Involved in complete SDLC process.  ? Responsible for installing, configuring and maintaining Codeigniter, PHP, Apache and MySQL on AWS Cloud Servers  ? Collaborated with backend and client engineers to help build features and solve creative problems  ? Worked with the Client team on integration of the SDK and client server communication  ? Expanded on current feature set while maintaining low-payload server transmissions  ? Created unit tests and maintain PHP codebase  ? Creating Custom directives, factory services and dependency injection for Angular.js based front end UI.  ? Created Restful API's using Codeigniter and consumed them with Angular.Js.  ? Used Node.js to run Web pack tasks and build project properly.  ? Developed PHP Worked on CAS module for Single sign on Authentication  ? Configured Google Analytics module for tracking the visitors for the website.  ? Used AJAX for every page for dynamically displaying the data without a page refresh  ? Worked on Angular.Js Routes using $scope object to create a Views using Controllers. Used JavaScript to make dropdown menus on web pages and displayed part of a web page upon user request.  ? Used Yii to simplify Email filters, manages and sends digests for email, simplifying the hassles of modern day communication and enable powerful new features such as email quiet hours. And integrated with the PHP IMAP library, the Mail gun API as well as the Pushover API for notifications.  ? Used Yii Framework for easy Data Migration utility provides great control over Database changes, helping us upgrade/downgrade application version on different installations.  ? Used Command line tool Yii in creating complicated CRON jobs by utilizing already written application logic instead of writing it all again in the CRON jobs.  ? Created tools to manage player base and their progress using Cake, Laravel, YII, Phalcon, Magento, Symphony framework.  ? Implemented Angular 2-component router for navigation.  ? Created a public API to provide external hooks for tournaments and more.  ? Installed MySQL workbench Client to access MySQL Server  ? Configured Rest and Soap web service modules to consume WebServices from external sources.  ? Worked on CAS module for Single sign on Authentication.  ? Implemented Angular 2 services to connect the web application to back-end APIs.  ? Extensively used JQuery Table sorter plugin as a data grid for sorting and freezing headers and footers for many tables which holds huge data related to vendors under the specific Contract vehicle  ? Provide on-call support regarding production -related problems, and work with IT managers and application developer  ? Helped to explore available tools, plug-ins, and extensions and support the implementation of such enhancements within our web-based products  ? Configured Google Analytics module for tracking the visitors for the website.  ? Collaborated across peers on IT Leadership team to influence IT Strategic direction, and to shape solution delivery to ensure compliance with PCI.  ? Used AJAX for every page for dynamically displaying the data without a page refresh.  ? Responsible for fixing 508 compliance issues, Cross-Site scripting issues.  ? Collaborate with team to research and recommend technologies and evaluate existing solutions for future development opportunities.  ? Involved in developing custom taglibs, JSP, EJB's, Portlets and DB2 - stored procedures.  ? Involved in Requirement analysis, design and Implementation applying the Water fall model.  ? Wrote Servlets programming and JSP scripting for the communication between web browser and server  Enviornment: LAMP, Zend Framework, PHP Java, J2EE, HTML, CSS, JQuery, MySQL, TOAD, SQL, DB2, Apache Axis, WSDL, Netbeans, JBOSS, Mercurial, Coherence, ClearCase, Selenium, Water Fall Model, UML, JSP, Servlet, Ant, XML, Jira, Swing, Cognos. PHP/ JAVA Developer Morgan Stanley - New York, NY March 2013 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in transforming the Use Cases into Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and State diagrams.  ? Involved in development of Web Services, creation of WSDL and schemas.  ? Extensively participated on working with Spring framework. Involved in writing JSP and Servlets.  ? Involved in development of Web Services, were developed to receive client requests.  ? Implemented Spring JDBC template, Spring Exception Strategy and AOP.  ? Involved in setting up WebSphere Application server and using Ant tool to build the application and deploy the application in WebSphere Application server.  ? Design, Development and testing of Java framework to transfer data from application to CIS and also from CIS to application.  ? Worked with the creation of Store Procedures. Involved in writing SQL queries, Stored Procedures to accomplish complex functionalities.  ? Part of team creating quality working J2EE code to design, schedule, and cost to implement use cases.  ? Developed Reusable classes in the middleware using Hibernate.  ? Involved in writing lots of JSP for maintains and enhancements of the application. Worked on Front End using Servlets and also backend using EJB and Hibernate.  ? Worked on Presentation Layer using Struts Tiles, JSPs and Servlets.  ? Created quality working J2EE code to design, schedule, and cost to implement use cases.  ? Setting of DB2 build settings in RAD application development server.  ? Involved in writing the database integration code using Hibernate.  ? Creation of managed server and JDBC connections.  ? Worked on the application using Rational Application Developer.  ? Worked on the application using Rational Application Developer. Designed & Developed Application flow UML diagrams of the application using Rational Rose.    Enviornment: J2EE, Java, JSP, Servlet, JDBC , JavaScript, Struts , Hibernate, JUnit, HTML, WebSphere Application Server, WSAD, Oracle, SQL, TOAD, Spring, WSDL, Axis, tcpmon, Ant, CVS, Windows'XP, Aix-Unix Java Developer NAVISYS, CHARLOTTE February 2011 to February 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Developed the modules of Purchase Request, Purchase Order, Item Master modules.  ? Involved in the Enhancement of Summarization module.  ? Developed the web pages using JSP, CSS and HTML  ? Developed the RTM interface module to map the requirements to the test-case and Test design modules  ? Generic Tree Navigation control).  ? Used several J2EE Design Patterns (Session Façade, Aggregate Entity) for the Middle Tier development.  ? Developed EJBS (Session and Message-Driven Beans) in (RAD) for handling business processing, database access and asynchronous messaging.  ? Made extensive use of Java Naming and Directory Interface (JNDI) for looking up enterprise beans.  ? Developed Message-Driven beans in collaboration with Java Messaging Service (JMS).  ? Involved in writing JSP/HTML/JavaScript and Servlets to generate dynamic web pages and web content.  ? Wrote various stored procedures in PL/SQL and JDBC routines to update tables.  ? Wrote various SQL queries for data retrieval using JDBC.  ? Involved in building and parsing XML documents using SAX parser.  ? Exposed business logic as a web service and developed WSDL files for describing these web services.  ? Extensively used SOAP formatted messages for communication between web services.  ? Developed the application on IBM WebSphere Application Server.  ? Developed the plug-in interfaces for the TMS features (TEE, Requirements, Version Control)  ? Developed Form Beans, which are used to store data when the user submits the HTML form  ? Coded various Java beans to implement the business logic  ? Development of GUI using AWT  ? Involved in creating the tables using SQL and connectivity is done by JDBC  ? Involved in generating the reports regarding the marks they secured in the online test once they press the submit button in the test using HTML and JSP.  Enviornment: J2ee, Java, Jsp, Servlet, Jdbc, Struts, Junit, Log4j, Javascript, Dhtml, Websphere Application Server, Axis, Wsad, Xml, Xslt, Ant, Sql, Sql Query Analyzer, Jprobe, Cvs, Opprox Reports, Windows'xp, Unix-Ibm Aix Java Programmer [C2C Contract] Boston, MA July 2009 to January 2011 Description: Private Information must be secured against disclosure to unauthorized  Individuals at all times whether being generated, viewed, stored, transmitted  and/or processed. For HIPPA, patient right to know, who viewed their personal information.  ? Understanding functional specifications, designing and developing creative solutions to meet business requirements.  ? Involved in injecting dependencies into code using concepts like IOC of Spring Framework  ? Involved in writing SQL Queries, Packages, PL/SQL Stored Procedures, and Functions.  ? Used Apache Tomcat as Web Server for this application.  ? Involved in check in, check out and preparing branches, tags using CVS.  ? Involved in writing web services classes using Restful Services.  ? Developed POJO based programming model using Hibernate.  ? Involved in integrating the business layer with DAO layer using ORM tool Hibernate.  ? Transaction Management using the Hibernate.  ? Involved in writing configuration files [XML].  ? Involved Production Support for this project.    Environment: JDK1.5, Apache CXF, Spring 2.x, Hibernate 3.x, MS Server 2008, Apache Tomcat 6.x. Education Bachelor's Skills DB2 (4 years), ORACLE (4 years), SQL (9 years), WEBSPHERE (4 years), UNIX (6 years) Additional Information ADDITIONAL TECH SKILLS:  ? Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL, DB2, JBoss, WebSphere, Tomcat, Eclipse, Flex, RSA, NetBeans, Windows, Linux , Unix