Sr. Full Stack Java Developer Sr. Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Full Stack Java Developer - Comcast West Chester, PA * Java Developer with 8+ years of experience on requirements gathering, requirements analysis, design and implementation of multi-tier applications using Java / J2EE and portal technologies  * Expertise in Hibernate, Spring Framework, Spring Boot, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, EJB, JNDI, Java Beans and XML.  * Experience in working with multiple Servers like Apache Tomcat, IBM WebSphere 7, BEA Web Logic  * Used Maven for build, deployment and integrated with Jenkins CI server for build automation.  * Hands on Experience with POJO, Hibernate and Spring Frameworks.  * Proficient in developing Multithreaded Applications using Multithreading concepts.  * Experience in developing Web Services using XML over HTTP(s), SOAP, WSDL, REST  * Expertise in developing software using Java, JavaScript, JSON, JQuery, C, C++, MYSQL, HTML, XML, SOAP, WSDL and various commercial tools on Unix and Windows platforms  * Experience in working with python  * Efficient in developing and deploying EJBs using WebLogic, WebSphere  * Used various Source Management Systems like WINCVS, PVCS, and SVN.  * Developed internal modules using AngularJS framework along with CSS3, HTML5.  * Good Experience in Object Oriented Analysis, Design and Development using UML.  * Experience of using various Design Patterns including MVC architecture.  * Followed Waterfall and Agile/Scrum methodology of software development which satisfies the customer through early and continuous delivery of valuable software.  * Exposure in Designing Internet and Intranet based Database Applications using Oracle 11i/10g, SQL and PL/SQL (Packages, Procedures, Functions, Triggers etc ..)  * Familiar with System Programming by using C, C++.  * Excellent Analytical, Communication and Interpersonal skills.  * Have very good exposure to the entire Software Development Life Cycle viz. Requirements Collection and other Project Management activities.  * Excellent written and verbal communication skills, presentation and problem solving skills  * Quick learner and have ability to adapt new technologies and methodologies Work Experience Sr. Full Stack Java Developer Comcast - West Chester, PA May 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Interacting with the Business Analyst and Host to understating the requirements using the Agile methodologies and SCRUM meeting to keep track and optimizing end client needs.  • Used Maven Scripts to build and deploy war files to QA environment.  • Developed micro services using Spring STS, Spring boot  • Part of L3 support team for development/support tasks.  • Extensively used Spring MVC and Hibernate Framework for data handling.  • Created connections to database using Hibernate Session Factory, have used Hibernate APIs for retrieval of data using Hibernate Transaction Control.  • Implemented Spring MVC application framework to create and configure of java beans using Spring IOC.  • Used Bootstrap and AngularJS for responsive web design.  • Used spring framework for removing hard coded dependencies (Dependency injection), integrated with Hibernate, Spring Service Bean and Spring MVC controllers.  • Wrote Spring Configuration using XML file and Annotations that contains object declarations and dependencies.  • Develop the batches in java using Multi threading and Collections.  • Coded JSP pages and used JavaScript for client side validations and to achieve other client-side event handling.  • Designed and created DAO using data modelling in the integration layer.  • Asynchronous communication used in JMS API for putting the messages in the Message queue.  • Using SOAP and Rest web services to retrieve provider's data and used SOAPUI to test the web services.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Backbone.js, Require.js and Node.js.  • Exposed Stateless session beans as restful web services using Jersey JAX-RS.  • Customized RESTful web service using Spring RESTful API, sending JSON format data packets between frond-end and middle tier controller.  • Used JSON Marshaller for marshaling and Unmarshalling the Json Objects.  • Worked and configured with GIT and Jenkins repository.  • Involved in designing the front-end using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Java Scripts, and AngularJS according to the instruction they provided.  • Used AJAX to implement user friendly and efficient client interface,  • Preparation and execution of test scripts using JMeter and SOAP UI tool to perform Web Services testing.  • Used Log4j for logging for debugging, warnings, errors etc.  • Designed a guided inspection template and inspected the design models.  • Involved in integrating Web Sphere Portal Server with WebSphere Process Server involving SOAP Web Services, WS-Security using JAX-WS, and JAXB.  • Used the Java Collections API extensively in the application.    Environment: Core Java/J2EE, Angular JS, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, XML, JUnit, Mockito, Eclipse IDE, Spring MVC, Spring 3.0/4.0, Hibernate 3.0/4.0, Maven,STS Sr. Full Stack Java Developer Cisco - Milpitas, CA May 2015 to April 2016 Project: Smart Labs (IoE)  Description:  Provides an innovative approach to inventory management that addresses equipment loss and which will provide loss prevention and ready, easy access to available equipment. The system will allow the tracking of equipment so an engineer who needs a particular piece can find it immediately. it also is a deterrent to equipment "walking out" of the labs. The time spent looking for a piece of equipment is reduced, lowers capital etc.    Responsibilities/Contribution:  * Involved in requirements gathering and analysis  * Used Spring MVC frame work to implement MVC pattern for this project.  * Implemented Web Service layer (Controllers, Services and DAOs) using Java Spring Framework and Tomcat server and Eclipse IDE  * Used Toad Data Modeler to build the Data model.  * Used MVC design pattern to solve the use cases.  * Used HQL to write the CRUD operations for different scenarios  * Wrote application level code to perform validations using jQuery and JavaScript.  * Implemented database tables required using Toad data modeller  * Used Bootstrap, jQuery, Javascript to provide responsive design for application  * Created and configured Hibernate for CRUD operations on Oracle Database.  * Created JSP and Servlets as per the requirements for the application  * Used Spring RestTemplate to consume MSE data using REST Api's  * REST API's are use to Consume the data from MSE  * used maps and tags data from MSE using JSON objects  * Exported and Imported data from one schema to another( Data Management/ Data Migration)  * Created user stories based on the business use case  * Imported Java server certificates using Java KeyTool    Environment: Toad 12.1, AngularJS, Toad Data Modeller 5.1, Rally, JSP, Json, REST API, Java Script, Bootstrap, JDBC, Hibernate, Oracle, Eclipse, Apache Tomcat 8, Git, Log4j Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Capital One - Richmond, VA May 2014 to May 2015 Project Name: Dealer Information system    Description:  The Dealer Information System (DIS) is a central repository for its dealers. Web application for dealer tracking and maintaining the dealer information. The system provides functionality to search, add, view and edit information on each section.  Responsibilities/Contribution:  * Interacting with the business analysts to gather requirements.  * Used Spring MVC frame work to implement MVC pattern for this project.  * Implemented Web Service layer (Controllers, Services and DAOs) using Java Spring 3 Framework and Tomcat server and Eclipse IDE.  * Mapped java objects to relational tables and specified the procedure calls in OR mapping XML files.  * Configured applicationContext.xml to integrate Hibernate with Spring.  * Implemented Listener classes and configured in web.xml.  * Worked on the Hibernate ORM layer including HQL and implementing HQL queries for MySQL database.  * Developed spring action classes using Mullti Action Controller and Simple Form Controller.  * Implemented UI screens using JSP, JSTL, and JQuery.  * Wrote application level code to perform validations using jQuery and JavaScript.  * Used JSTL along with JSP for customizing the front end.  * Worked along with the test team to resolve issues.  * Developed web services components using SOAP, WSDL with help of Spring-WS  * Worked on developing modules end-to-end, which involved generating User-Interfaces, Service modules and database Queries.  * Responsible for maintaining and enhancing existing webservices.  * Writing User Specification documents, design documents.  * Performed reviews and prepared unit test cases and executing them.  * Used Maven for building project and also configured to add dependencies to existing projects.  * Implemented the mechanism of logging and debugging with Log4j.  * Integrated the server modules with RESTful Web Services.  * Used JIRA as bug and defect tracking tool.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring Framework, AngularJS Hibernate, HQL, RESTful Web Services, Ajax, JSON, XML, JavaScript, JSP, JQuery, JSTL, SOAP, MySQL Database Server, XML, HTML, Tomcat 7.0, SVN Sub Version, Agile Methodologies, Maven, Eclipse IDE, Log4j, JIRA. Sr. Java Developer Zurich Financial Services - Chicago, IL November 2012 to April 2014 Project: Global Life    Description:  Zurich International Service (ZIS) provides information on online to the client and distributors for its various Insurance products. New portal application for Plan/Client Enquiry was developed. The primary business of application is to provide the GUI to advisers to check plan details, like Plan Summary, Withdrawals, Benefits, Premium, Clients, and Investments.    Responsibilities/Contribution:  * Involved in gathering business requirements, analyzing the projectand creating use Cases and Class Diagrams.  * Wrote JUnit test cases for testing all spring service calls and Spring MVC validations.  * Wrote application level code to perform client side validation using jQuery and JavaScript.  * Designed and developed a REST API for parsing out the customer information  * Low level design and implementation, handling build, deploy and release process.  * Interacting with client/SME/Solution Architect for requirement clarifications.  * Worked on Look And Feel changes and CSS.  * Wrote controllers and validators for UI interactions and configured the Spring mvc for the web application.  * Configured Maven pom.xml for dependency management and build purposes.  * Consumed web services using Spring to get data from external systems and configured log4j for logging purposes.  * Consumed SOAP based Web Services using Spring to interact with external systems  * Deployed the application war on Tomcat and used spring caching annotations for caching purposes.  * Participated in builds and deployments using Maven to model and production and resolved bugs.  * Wrote database queries using SQL for accessing, manipulating and updating Oracle Database.  * Responsible for the full software development life cycle (SDLC).  * Worked with XML to store and read exception messages through DOM.  * Participated in code reviews and used maven for builds and GIT for source control.  * Involved in fixing defects, warranty support, conducted code reviews.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring MVC, IBM RSA, Spring 3.2, Hibernate, Maven, JQuery, Struts, CSS, SQL, Oracle, Tomcat, Web Services, SOAP, XML, HTML, JavaScript, REST API, SOAP, JSP, JUnit, Log4j, Maven and GIT. Java Developer Aetna, Inc - Dallas, TX January 2011 to October 2012 Project: My Aetna  Aetna, Inc. is an American diversified health insurance company, providing wide range of traditional and consumer directed health care insurance products and related services, including medical, pharmaceutical, dental, behavioral health, group life, long-term care, and disability plans, and medical management capabilities. Project called My Aetna involved development of the company's web-based application, which allows users to access their information online. Registered users with Aetna have access to their insurance coverage, change the terms of their coverage, change plans, physician, file claims, and other services.    Responsibilities / Contribution:  * Analyzed Business requirements and existing software for High Level Design. Prepared System Requirement Specification (SRS) and functionality documents.  * Developed UML diagrams like Use case, class and sequence diagrams.  * Followed Scrum concepts of Agile Methodology to produce high Quality application.  * Used Spring Framework and J2EE components to develop Controller classes, backend processes, complex services and database interaction.  * Utilized Spring MVC, IoC, AOP and DAO modules.  * Applied Object Oriented Methodologies and core J2EE design patterns like Business Delegate, Service Locator, and Singleton.  * Developed web pages and client applications in HTML, JSP, FreeMarker, JavaScript and XML.  * Used resource bundles for i18N Internationalization and property files.  * Published and Consumed Web Services using Spring and JAX-WS to provide information to internal applications. Used JAXB framework for handling XML data.  * Developed message notification system using ActiveMQ to notify the changes and update across the internal client apps.  * Designed and integrated the full scale Hibernate Persistence solutions with the application architectures and also used Annotations Developed Session Bean for implementing the Business Logic.  * Orderly logged the whole process using log4j for auditing, debugging and error logging purposes.    Environment: Java 1.6, J2EE, Agile, JSP, UML, Spring MVC, JSP, FreeMarker, ActiveMQ, XML, HTML, JSON, Hibernate, Log4j, JBoss, Eclipse, Oracle, MySQL. J2EE Developer Huawei Technology India Pvt. Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana March 2010 to September 2011 Client: DBS Bank  Description:  INTELLECT is a Wealth Management Product and this project was developed for DBS Bank. Wealth management is an investment advisory discipline that incorporates financial planning, investment portfolio management and a number of aggregated financial services. High Net worth individuals, small business owners and families who desire the assistance of a credentialed financial advisory specialist call upon wealth managers to coordinate retail banking, estate planning, legal resources, tax professionals and investment management.    Responsibilities/Contribution:  * Involved in requirements gathering, analysis and design.  * Adapted Waterfall model from specification, Analysis, Design, System integration, Testing, Deployment and Maintenance  * Responsible for Development, Implementation and Testing of the complete business solution.  * Developed use cases and created UML diagrams like class diagrams, sequence diagrams to represent the overall architecture  * Developed User Interface using Struts JSTL and Tiles Framework  * Developed set of Action classes using Struts for handling business logic and Hibernate API for data logic  * Designed and developed presentation layer using JSP, HTML, and JavaScript  * Extensive application of J2EE design patterns namely, DAO, Business Service, and Singleton  * Data persistence was achieved using Hibernate  * Testing of JSPs, Servlets and Business Objects was done on WSAD test environment  * The back end database was designed using Oracle and worked on Oracle stored procedures, triggers.    Environment: Java 1.4, JSP 2.0, Struts 1.1, JSTL, Hibernate, Oracle 9i, XML, UML, HTML, JavaScript, Servlets. Jr. Java developer ITC InfoTech India Limited - Hyderabad, Telangana November 2008 to January 2010 Description:  Order Management System (OMS) is a flexible, cost-effective, marketable, reliable, scalable and cohesive system which replaces its three existing systems, using this system call center representatives receives calls from the end customer to place, update or refund of their orders, based on their needs the system will generate orders and reports accordingly.    The entire system is based on a multi-tier architecture using Spring, web work, and Hibernate. The system is Intranet enabled, and can be used by anyone having a valid username and password, browser and an Internet connection. Eclipse has been used as a tool to develop the system. Maven has been used to compile and deploy the system in JBoss server.    Responsibilities/Contribution:  * Involved in analysis and design of the application.  * Involved in preparing the detailed design document for the project.  * Developed the application using J2EE architecture.  * Involved in developing JSP forms.  * Designed and developed web pages using HTML and JSP.  * Designed and developed Servlets to communicate between presentation and business layer.  * Used EJB as a middleware in developing a three-tier distributed application.  * Developed Session Beans and Entity beans to business and data process.  * Used JMS in the project for sending and receiving the messages on the queue.  * Developed the Servlets for processing the data on the server.  * The processed data is transferred to the database through Entity Bean.  * Used JDBC for database connectivity with MySQL Server.  * Used CVS for version control.  * Involved in unit testing using Junit.    Environment: Core Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, XML, XSLT, EJB, JDBC, JavaScript, JMS, HTML, CSS, MySQL Server, CVS, JBoss Education Bachelor of Technology in Technology JNTU Skills database (8 years), HTML (8 years), Java (8 years), JavaScript (8 years), JSP (8 years), Core Java/J2EE, Angular JS, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, XML, JUnit, Mockito, Eclipse IDE, Spring MVC, Spring 3.0/4.0, Hibernate 3.0/4.0, Maven,STS . Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages: Java/J2EE, C, C++, Perl, Python, HTML, XML.  Web Technologies: JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, Java Beans, MVC, Struts, JavaScript, AJAX, XML and HTML.  Web Services: JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, SOAP, RESTful Web Service.  Development Approach: Waterfall, Iterative, View and Agile.  Application / Web Servers: Apache Tomcat 5.5, 6.0, 7.0 IBM WebSphere 7.0, 8.0, 8.5, BEA Web Logic 10.0, 10.3  System Design: UML, Rational Rose.  IDE Tools: Eclipse 3.6, 3.7, 4.2, 4.3, My Eclipse 6.0, IBM Rational Application Developer 6.0, 7, Visual Age, JBuilder and NetBeans.  Databases / API: MySQL, Oracle 9i/10g/11g, IBM DB2, MS Access, SQL Server.  Operating Systems: Windows 7 / Windows 8NT/XP, Ubuntu, Unix, AIX  Data Modeling: Microsoft Visio, Rational Rose and UML Design.  Frameworks: Struts 2, Spring 3.0 and Hibernate 3.0.  Tool: ANT, Maven, Rational Rose, UML, Log4J, JUnit 3.8 / 4.0.