Data Scientist Data Scientist Data Scientist - XSELL Technologies Chicago, IL Data Scientist with 3 years of professional experience with chatbots, recommendation systems, scalable Machine Learning and Natural language processing. Work Experience Data Scientist XSELL Technologies - Chicago, IL May 2017 to Present • Developing machine learning models to classify customer's intent and provide real-time recommendation to customer care agents on chat.  • Designed metrics and developed processes to evaluate the performance of the recommendation system and to get continuous data-driven  insights for areas of improvements.  • Setup annotation schemes and use active learning to prioritize data to be labeled for significant system improvement.  • The improved dialogue-based recommendation system lead to 17% lift in sales for our telecommunication clients.  • Worked with clustering, classification (random forest, SVM, RNN and more), word embedding's, Topic Modeling and more. Software Developer (Python, Java, AWS, Git) Niki.ai - Bengaluru, Karnataka October 2015 to July 2016 • Conceptualised and implemented the NLP backend for users to shop using the chatbot in simple human understandable messages.  • Improved understanding capability of the chatbot by around 30% by standardizing entity extraction across the application.  • Developed lightweight RESTful API's to interact with the merchants and users to resolve user queries from android application. Summer Intern (Python) The University of Sheffield - Sheffield June 2015 to September 2015 • Developed an algorithm to summarize comments on online newspapers. Used LDA to cluster user comments according to topics  • Ranked comments in each cluster using PageRank. Top Ranked comment from each cluster were combined to form a summary.  • Summaries formed were significantly better than baseline system at significance level of 0.05. Research Assistant (Python, Terrier Search Engine) DA-IICT - Gandhinagar, Gujarat January 2014 to April 2014 • Developed an algorithm for a legal recommendation system to find and summarize the past legal cases similar to the searched case.  • Expanded queries using blind and actual relevance feedback for efficient retrieval of documents. Education Master's in Data Science Illinois Institute of Technology - Chicago, IL March 2016 to December 2017 Master's in Advanced Computer Science University of Sheffield - Sheffield September 2014 to September 2015 Bachelor's in Information and Communication Technology Dhirubhai Ambani Institute of Information and Communication Technology - Gandhinagar, Gujarat July 2010 to May 2014 Skills Git, Hadoop, Hive, PYTHON, KERAS, MATPLOTLIB, NUMPY, PANDAS, TENSORFLOW, MACHINE LEARNING, HADOOP, NLP, MYSQL, POSTGRESQL, JAVA, SQL, NLTK, Keras, Scikit-Learn, Gensim, AWS, Stanford CoreNLP, Hypothesis Testing, Spark, R Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/ishita-agarwal-ds https://github.com/github-ish