Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - NII Holdings Inc Reston, VA ? Java Programmer with over all 10+ years of Experience in working with various J2EE technologies including Servlets, JSP, Java Beans, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, JDBC, Web Services, Java SOA.  ? Experienced working in all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle using Core Java, JAVAEE technologies.  ? Worked on various Workflows within the development criteria.  ? Performed jobs execution using Quartz Schedulers.  ? Developed applications using frameworks and API like Struts, Spring, JSF and Hibernate.  ? Experienced working with Web services technologies like SOAP http protocol, WSDL, JAX-WS, JAX-RS.  ? Developed applications based on Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture using J2EE design patterns like Data Access Object, Business Delegate.  ? Extensive knowledge working with My Eclipse 6.6, Eclipse 3.2/3.1 tools.  ? Good experience in installing, configuring, deploying applications using Weblogic, Websphere, Apache Tomcat, JBoss Servers.  ? Expertise in J2EEtechnologies like JSPs 1.x/2.0, Servlets 2.2/2.3/2.4/2.5, EJBs 2.0, JDBC, JNDI and AJAX.  ? Exposure to Scripting Languages like HTML, JavaScript, JQuery and Ajax.  ? Experience in developing application in Core Java.  ? Strong experience in developing Service Oriented Architecture based applications and web services using SOAP 1.1.  ? Good knowledge on Object Oriented Analysis and Object Oriented Design, Modeling Applications with Use case, Class Diagrams & Sequence Diagrams.  ? Strong experience in PL/SQL and SQL for writing SQL queries, Triggers functions and Stored Procedures on databases like Oracle 8i/9i/10g.  ? Worked with Source control tools like CVS and SVN.  ? Expertise in using Development Tool Eclipse, Weblogic Workshop and NetBeans.  ? Expert in using testing, logging and building tools like JUnit, Log4J and Ant.  ? Experience in System maintenance, analysis and performance in Windows, UNIX and Linux environment.  ? Exposure to Full Life Cycle Solution Development (Requirement gathering, Analysis, Design, Development, Documentation, Testing and User training)  ? Ability to handle multiple tasks and work independently as well as in a team.  ? Expert Communication, Interpersonal, and Organizational skills.  ? Excellent communication skills with ability to learn quickly in work environment, fluent in communication, productive interpersonal skills with the ability to understand and cooperate with group requirements efficiently.  ? Good in written and verbal communication along with strong interpersonal, analytical, and organizational skills.  ? Highly motivated team player with the ability to work independently and adapt quickly to new and emerging technologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java Developer NII Holdings Inc - Reston, VA September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involve in Development life cycle process of the application.  • Responsible for any incoming change request, implemented using core java concepts (Collections, Exception Handling).  • Involved in creating UI using HTML5, CSS3, and JSP, created Login page, Data upload page, data description page. Provided data Sorting, Filtering and Search option on GU  • Responsible for writing and executing the project with JavaScript, jQuery, HTML5, and CSS3code.  • Designed and developed web pages using JSP, HTML, DHTML JavaScript and Bootstrap, Angular.JS  • Involved in developing a module for the application using Spring MVC  • Used JavaScript for front end validation.  • Used Spring MVC to implement this application.  • Structure Query Language (SQL) was used to perform various queries in the database.  • For Machine to Machine interface used Restful Api and used all four methods of it (get, put, post, delete).  • Used Soap UI to test the Restful API.  • Involved in writing the function test cases for application and performed function testing.  • Used Git as Revision Control System.  • Responsible for unit testing, used Junit for writing the unit test cases.    Environment: Java, Spring MVC, SOAP, Java script, JSP, HTML5, CSS3, Angular.JS, Bootstrap, Junit Sr. Java developer Verizon Wireless - Atlanta, GA June 2017 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering system requirements for the application and worked with the business team to review the requirements, and went through the Software Requirement Specification document and Architecture document.  • Involved in designing UML Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Created Functional specification documents (FSD) and JSON contracts  • Developed the application using Spring Framework that uses Model View Controller (MVC) architecture with JSP as the view.  • Developed presentation layer using JSP, HTML and CSS and JQuery.  • Developed JSP custom tags for front end.  • Written Java script code for Input Validation.  • Extensively used Spring IOC for Dependency Injection.  • Developed J2EE components on Eclipse IDE.  • Used Restful web services with JSON.  • Used Apache CXF open source tool to generate java stubs form WSDL.  • Used Oracle10g database for tables creation and involved in writing SQL queries using Joins and Stored Procedures.  • Used Hibernate for Object-Relational Mapping and for database operations in Oracle database.  • Developed Action classes and DAO classes to access the database.  • Developed several POJO class to map table data into Java Object.  • Used SQL developer database tool to build, edit, and format database queries, as well as eliminate performance issues in the code.  • Used JUnit for testing the application and Maven for building Projects  • Deployed the applications on Web sphere Application Server.    Environment: Java 6 - JDK 1.6, JEE, Spring 3.1 framework, Spring Model View Controller (MVC), Java Server Pages (JSP) 2.0, Servlets 3.0, JDBC4.0, AJAX, Web services, Rest full, JSON, Java Beans, JQuery, JavaScript, Oracle 10g, IBM RAD, Web sphere, Agile Methodology, Design Patterns, SVN, Apache Maven, JUnit, HTML Unit, XSLT, HTML/DHTML. J2EE Developer First Internet Bank of Indiana - Carmel, IN October 2014 to May 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis, Design, development, Enhancing, testing and Supporting the applications.  • Developed application to monitor sales pattern, follow up slack sales and track selling points.  • Used third party vendor (Global Collect) for credit card and checks payments.  • Used Rational Software Architect (RSA) for generating the class and sequence diagrams.  • Generated web service client interface using Axis 1.1.  • Developed web tier by using Struts Framework, JSP's, Tag Libraries, spring, Servlets, JavaScript, Hibernate, HTML and XML.  • Developed different kinds of Action classes like Look Up Dispatch Action, Dispatch Action, DynaValidator Action Form, DynaAction Form, Validator Form and Action Form classes for data transfer and for both client side and server side validations.  • Developed front-end layer with the struts Tiles framework and used ValidatorFramework for validation.  • Extensively used MVC and Singleton design patterns.  • Implemented database connection pooling using IBM WebSphereDataSource.  • Used JNDI interface to create a data source and LDAP connectivity.  • Used Middlegen and Coregento generate hbm.xml files and persistence Objects.  • Involved in developing the Persistence layer using Hibernate framework.  • Involved in writing SQL Queries.  • Currently working on minimizing session usage from all application to gain the advantages of WAS 6.0.  • Developed JUnit test cases for Persistence layer and Business layer to perform the unit level Testing.  • Used AJAX framework in the shopping cart page.  • Involved in working with customers for customer acceptance testing.  • Used Clearcase for Source Control and Version Management.    Environment: J2EE, JDK1.4, Struts1.1, Spring 2, JSP, Servlets, Java Web Services,SOAP,Hibernate 2, Java Mail, XML, XSLT, DOM, SAX Parser, Java Beans, JavaScript, JSTL, CSS, AJAX, HTML, DHTML, DB2, Oracle 9i, SQL Server, PL/SQL, Apache Axis2, Cocoon, Tomcat 4.0.1, RSA, Eclipse, Ant, JUnit, Log4J, Windows, VSS. Java developer Texas Instruments - Dallas, TX January 2011 to September 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phrases of Software Development Life cycle (SDLC) of the application like requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and code development.  • Developed Object diagrams, Class diagrams and sequence diagrams using UML.  • Developed presentation tier as HTML, JSPs using Hibernate.  • Created Stateless and Stateful session beans for accessing and mutating Entity beans.  • Extensively used Entity Beans in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Developed Controller for request, response paradigm by Spring Controllers using Spring-MVC.  • Used Web Services-WSDL and SOAP for getting credit card information from third party vendors.  • Worked on Hibernate object/relational mapping according to Database Schema.  • Used DOM for parsing the XML Document.  • Used JAXB parser for parsing the valid XML files.  • Created database pool, multi-pool, data source and mapped them to roles.  • Designed various tables required for the project in Oracle database and used the Stored Procedures in the application.  • Created different interactive spring web flows for creating, modifying and deleting the case status.  • Experience working in a JMS messaging environment (MQ series,oracle messaging), troubleshooting of messaging components, examining queues, topics.  • Wrote PL/SQLstored procedures and involved in performance tuning of complex queries.  • Build ANT scripts and deployed the application on Web sphere Application Server.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4j and fixed the problems.  • Developed the different components of the application such as JSPs, Servlets, and EJBs.  • Work in the agile process, with daily scrums and sprints.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, EJB, HTML, XML, DOM, ANT, PL/SQL, Spring, Apache Axis, IBM  WebSpherApplication Server, Hibernate, Oracle 10g, log4j, Jee-6. Web Developer Bank of America - Jacksonville, FL May 2009 to December 2010 Responsibilities:  • Created Mock-up designs and developed various functionalities with Java Script and jQuery.  • Worked with the team of architects to gather requirements and enhance the application functionality and add new features.  • Extensively used Ajax calls to send parameters and fetch data based on the user-triggered events.  • Manipulated data to both send and fetch data from the server through GET and POST requests.  • Developed print functionality and download to Excel functionality.  • Used CSS, HTML to make effective and cross-browser compatible front-end pages with attractive and easy to use functionalities.  • Fixed bugs in the production and carried out Unit Testing for the developed functionalities.  • Involved in Drawing Case diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagram for each scenario.  • Designed and developed web interfaces and business logic using Jakarta Struts Framework (MVC architecture), JSP, Servlets, Java Beans, JDBC, AJAX, Java Script, HTML, DHTML and XML Technologies.  • Also responsible for developing the client side of this n-tier product, this is a Swing-based application that makes extensive use of the drag-and-drop idiom.  • Extensively used JavaScript for client side validations and for capturing dynamic events.  • Used Struts tiles to achieve reusability among the view pages.  • Wrote model classes for specific database actions, added methods to the existing DAO's.  • Loading data from Text Files to Database by using SQL Loader.  • JDBC is used for connecting to the database Oracle 8.0  • Developed a Controller Servlet for Single Point of Control and fetching Connection from Connection Pool.    Environment: JSP, Struts, JDBC, JDK, HTML, Web Logic, XML, HTML, Oracle 8i, SQL, PL/SQL, Putty, Windows NT, UNIX. Education Bachelor's Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information TECHNICAL EXPERTISE:  L Languages C, C++, Java, J2EE, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XSL, Action Script 3.0 XML, Drools, SQL, PL/SQL    Java Technologies  JDK (1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 1.5), Servlets 2.3, JSP 1.2/2.0, HTML,  EJB 2.0/3.0, JDBC 2.0, JNDI, ANT, JMS, Swing,  XML(DTD & Schema), Java Beans, JAXP (DOMSAX),Web  services (SOAP,WSDL), AJAX (JQuery framework)    Databases Oracle 10g/9.x/8.x, DB2, SQL Server.  Frameworks Struts 1.2/2.0, JSF 1.2/2.0, Spring 2.5/3.0, Hibernate 2.0/3.0  Development Tools  Eclipse, Ant, Toad 8.5, Sql Developer, Web logic Workshop  8.1, My Eclipse 4.0.3, WebSphere Studio Application  Developer 5.1, RAD6.0, Log4j, JUnit, Websphere Message  Broker Toolkit, Websphere MQ.    Web / Application Servers IBM Web sphere Application Server (6.1), Web logic (8.1), Tomcat 4.0, JBoss 4.2.2. Apache,  Designing and Modeling Design Patterns like MVC, Factory, Singleton, Template, Command.  Operating Systems Windows XP/2000/NT, HP Unix and Linux (Ubuntu).  Version Controls CVS, SVN