Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - Charles Schwab Austin, TX • Having 8 years of experience in analysis & design, development and deployment of web-based applications. Strong working experience in all phases of SDLC. Expertise in Object Oriented JAVA/J2EE technologies.  • Experienced in implementing DAO layer using ORM tools like Hibernate core interfaces, annotations and optimizations.  • Experienced in working with different software methodologies Agile methodology, Waterfall and TDD.  • Complete understanding of Agile/SCRUM methodology.  • Strong design/development experience with SDLC including Business modeling, Requirements gathering, Analysis and design, Implementation, Testing and Deployment. Extensive use of various design methodologies like OOAD, UML Design Patterns.    • Experience using Eclipse IDE, NetBeans.  • Experienced in designing and developing web applications and client-side applications using HTML5, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, J query, Angular JS, Angular 2, Node.js, AJAX, JSON.  • Expertise in core java concepts such as OOPs, ExceptionHandling, Data Structures,Collections, Multithreading, Swing, Lambda and Generics.  • Experienced in using J2EE Design Patterns (Singleton, Factory, Service Locator, DAO, DTO).  • Expertise in developing and deploying multi-tiered web applications using technologies JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, EJB, JPA ( Java Persistence API), JMSand JNDI.  • Hands on experience in using messaging services like JMS and MQ Series.  • Experience in using frameworks like Spring Core, SpringDependency Injection, IOC,AOP, Integration, Security, Spring Batch, Spring Boot, Struts.    • Used web services with SOAP based and Restful webservices using UDDI, WSDL, JAX-WS, JAX-RS.  • Hands on experience in using Extensible Markup Language tools like XML, XSL, XSLT, DTD, XML Schema, SAX and DOM parsers.  • Designed and developed Micro services business component using Spring Boot.  • Experienced in using build/deployment tolls like ANT, Maven, Gradle.  • Experienced in using testing frameworks likeJunit, Mockitoandimplementedlogging with Log4j.  • Experienced in Issue tracking using JIRAand Quality Center tool.  • Good experience in using various version control tools like CVS,SVN and GITand GIT Hub.  • Have knowledge in usingDocker containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle.  • Experienced with installing, configuring and deploying Tomcat, JBoss, Web Logic and Web Sphere.  • Proficient in SQL, PL/SQL, Views, Functions and Stored Procedures.  • Used AWSservices like EC2 to create instances, S3 buckets for storing,Cloudwatch to monitor the application and EBS for code deployment.  • Worked with SQL databases like Oracle, MySQL,DB2 and NoSQL databases like Mongo DB, Dynamo DB, Postgres.  • Supported clients with post production issues and enhancements.  • Excellent Communication, Presentation and Management skills with experience in conflict resolution, creative problem solving techniques and working in a challenging environment. Work Experience Full Stack Developer Charles Schwab - Austin, TX August 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • As a part of the team worked on estimate releases, tasks with development manager and allocated work for development and testing team.  • Interacted with the client for gathering the requirements during design, development and implementation phases.  • Used Agile environment for designing and coding application environment, used Test Driven Development (TDD) which includes bi-weekly sprint and daily scrum to discuss the design and work progress.  • Developed ER and UML diagrams for all the design, and documented all the process flows.  • Developed Web application using Node.JS along with cutting edge HTML5 and CSS3(Less).  • Used Core Java concepts such as collections, generics and multi-threading.  • Template development for a Java based search platform using JSP/JSTL.  • Development and published server-side business logic in a simple POJO for various account portfolios, equities, asset/equities ratios.  • Developed the web application using Spring, JSP, HTML. Implemented the application using J2EE design patterns like Spring, Singleton, DAO (Data Access Object), DTO (Data Transfer Object).  • Developed Messaging component using JMS, EJB message driven bean to handle FIXML messages. Wrote deployment descriptors for Web and EJB components.  • Involved in designing the architecture for the project using Spring and Hibernate Framework.  • Designing and implementing scalable, RESTful and microservices based mobile back-end. The back-end is written using Spring Boot.  • Worked on various SOAP and RESTful services used in various internal applications.  • Developed DAO (Using Hibernate) classes and wrote SQL queries to get data from MySQL database.  • Involved in unit testing, system integration testing and enterprise user testing using Junit.  • Backup and restore Jira to sync the test instance with production.  • Used CVS for version Controlling Purposes and ANT for the entire build process.  • Assembled, built and deployed EJB and Web components onto Web Logic application server.  • Used Mongo DB for Caching and to improve the performance of web Services.  Environment: J2EE/Java1.8, J2EE design patterns, CSS, HTML, Node.js, Angular 2, jQuery, JSP, JMS, Spring, Spring boot, Hibernate, XML, XSLT, DOM, SAX Parser, Java Beans, ANT, CVS, Restful Web Services, SOAP, RESTful Web services, EJB 3.0, Mongo DB, MySQL, Jira, Eclipse, Tomcat, Web Logic, IBM WebSphere, SOAP, Windows, Linux. Full stack Developer United Health Group - Plano, TX February 2015 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Analyzed the requirements with the business team and involved in designing the application using OOAD methodologies. Implemented design patterns like Session Facade, Singleton, Factory, Service Locator and DAO.  • Followed Agile Software Development Methodology and Test-driven Development (TDD) to build the application iteratively and incrementally.  • Developed UI using HTML5, CSS3, Angular JS, AJAX, Bootstrap framework and JSP for interactive cross browser functionality and complex user interface.  • Performed Front end validations for the screen using JavaScript, Angular JS directives and core java.  • Involved in the development of project back-end logic layer by using most of the core Java features such as Collection Framework, Interfaces, Multi-Threading and Exception Handling programming.  • Developed front-end code with Ajax call in AngularJS and jQuery to retrieve data as JSON Object. Involved in developing the web pages using Angular1 to build Single page web applications.  • Worked with Spring MVC framework, Hibernate ORM and Spring Boot for implementing the Web tier of the application with Oracle database, MS SQL server.  • Used Spring Security for authentication and authorization purposes. Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection (IoC)Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST API s and Spring Boot for micro-services.  • Responsible for developing DAO layer using Spring MVC and configuration XML's for Hibernate.  • Created customized AMIs based on already existing AWS EC2 instances by using create image functionality, hence using this snapshot for disaster recovery.  • Developed Java API to connect with AWS S3 Services for storing and retrieving data stored in the S3 buckets.  • Developed SQL stored procedures for data migration and database upgrade from SQL using TOAD for SQL.  • Used Maven for building the project and involved in data replication and high availability design scenarios with Oracle Streams.  • Used Eclipse IDE for code development along with GIT for managing the code and JENKINS for continuous integration.  • All the functionality is implemented using Spring IO / Spring Boot, Thymeleaf and Hibernate ORM.  • Involved in Test Driven Development by writing JUnit test case in the coding part of Java methods.  • Used JBoss Fuse to create mediation or route message between Services. Used Log4J for logging errors and messages.  • Extensive use of maven to build and deploy the application into dev environment and QA environment and work with the front-end developers in displaying the data. Used Quality Center for tracking bugs.  Environment: Java1.8/J2EE, Spring 3.x, Hibernate, Spring Security, Spring boot 1.2.3, Thymeleaf 2.1.4, Ajax, Web Services, AngularJS, Angular1, jQuery, JSON, Free marker, JUnit, HTML, CSS3, Bootstrap, Micro Services, AWS S3, EC2, Tomcat 6.x,7.x, Web logic, Apache Maven build tool, PL/SQL, Spark, RESTful API, JENKINS, GIT, Selenium, Quality Center, and Eclipse, Fuse ESB, Camel 2.5, Windows, Unix. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Liberty Mutual - Seattle, WA May 2014 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involve in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development and understanding of business requirements and implement the process using Agile (Scrum) methodology.  • Meetings with the business users to finalize the scope, interpret written business requirements and technical specification documents.  • Involved in developing User Interface (UI) with HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries and JavaScript to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Used AJAX API for intensive user operations and client-side validations.  • Implemented routing logic and navigation from screen to screen and implemented login functionality on the client side with Angular JS.  • Experience in using the Design Patterns such as Service Locator, Model View Controller, Session facade, Singleton.  • Used multithreading in programming to improve overall performance using Singleton design pattern in Hibernate Utility class.  • Used Spring Core, Spring Web, Spring MVC, Spring ORM and Spring AOP.  • Implemented the application using spring concepts - Batch implementation and Spring MVC.  • Worked in development of web services for business operations using REST, WSDL, JAX-RS, JDOM, XML, XSL and Apache CXF, implementing SOA architecture.  • Developed Web services using Apache Axis SOAP engine that would be exposed to external applications to retrieve data from e-Client servicing platform.  • Worked on parsing the XML files using DOM/SAX parsers.  • Create and configured the continuous delivery pipelines for deploying micro services using Jenkins server.  • Implemented Log4j for Logging Errors, debugging and tracking using loggers, appender components.  • Followed Test Driven Development (TDD) to develop JUnit test cases and performed integration and system testing.  • Resolved bugs/defects in application by coordinated with team members of the project to assure a positive outcome.  • Implemented WebSphere MQ for provisioning using the Spring JMS Listeners to parse the XML message.  • Performed deployment of applications on Apache Tomcat Application Server.  Environment: Java 1.7/J2ee, IntelliJ, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSP, Spring Batch, Spring web services, Spring core, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Hibernate, WebSphere MQ, Oracle, PL/SQL, WebSphere MQ, Jenkins, Log4j, SOAP, JAX-WS, WSDL, XML, DOM/SAX, JUnit, Apache CXF, Apache Tomcat, Eclipse, Web Logic, GitHub, Ant, Jersey, Junit, Linux. Java Developer Stockton Telecom - Irving, TX January 2013 to April 2014 Responsibilities:  • Interacted with clients and application users in gathering the Requirements, Specifications and Design. Designed the UML diagrams based on the OOAD principles.  • Developed the application under J2EE architecture using JSP, Spring, Java Beans.  • Developed the Action classes, Action forms and Action servlet for Web tier.  • Used AJAX in user validation and suggestion list and to display dialog boxes.  • Implemented SOA architecture with web services using SOAP, WSDL and XML.  • Used Spring Framework and created the Dependency injection for the Action classes using Application Context.  • Worked on Rest based Web services for Mule ESB flows.  • Developed the Business logic on the web tier using EJB Stateless Session beans.  • Worked on MQ with J2EE technologies on the WebSphere MQ.  • Designed and implementing Session Facade, Service Locator and DTO design patterns.  • Used Webservices for getting Customer information and the plans eligible.  • Developed a RESTful service to provide all the CRUD capabilities.  • Analyzed, designed and implemented DAO pattern for accessing Database using connection pool.  • Worked on different ways to increase performance of the Application through use of methodologies like asynchronous calls to database, stored procedures in place of SQL, etc.  • Involved in configuration of XML flat file and parsing the XML file using the SAX Parser.  • Involved in creation of Unit Test Cases and Actual Unit Testing for POJO's using Junit.  • Implemented Jasper Reports for annual report generation with charts.  • Used SVN for version control and source code management  • Responsible for the user module, setting rights and permission to users through the keywords set with database and testing.  Environment: JDK1.5, Eclipse IDE, JSP, JSF, Java Beans, AJAX, XML, EJB, Spring, IBM WebSphere Application server 5, JUnit, SOA, Mule ESB, Web Services(JAX-WS), WSDL, XML, Oracle 9i, PL/SQL, SVN, SAX Parser, Jasper Reports. Java Developer Global Bank - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2010 to November 2012 Responsibilities:  • Analyzed project requirements for the product and involved in designing.  • Interacting with the system analysts & business users for design & requirement clarification.  • Developed UI modifications for uPortal using XSLT, DHTML, XML and JavaScript.  • Used J2EE Design Patterns like Session Facade pattern.  • Used Connection Pooling to get JDBC connection and access database procedures.  • Developed, and debugged the servlets and EJB with Jboss Application server.  • Used Spring Framework to deal with functionalities like credit issues, invoice details. Used Spring DAO Module to deal with Database.  • Spring MVC Framework IOC (Inversion of Control) design pattern is used to have relationships between application components.  • Wrote complex SQL queries to retrieve invoice details and other financial elements etc.  • Used Log4J as a debugging tool.  • Used CVS repository for version control and extensively used Tomcat server and Jboss application server for developing, building and testing the application.  Environment: JDK 1.5, J2EE, NetBeans, Spring MVC, Servlets 2.3, JSP 1.2, XML 2.0, CSS, CVS, JBoss Application Server, ECLIPSE, Ultra Edit, XML Spy, AJAX, SQL Server 2000, TOAD, Windows. Jr. Java Developer Logitech Pvt Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2009 to August 2010 Responsibilities:  • Involved in development of the complete flow from the front end to the back-end in Agile environment.  • Involved and participated in Code reviews.  • Responsible for designing different JSP pages and writing Action class using Struts framework for Security, and Search modules.  • Involved in research of indexing and searching tools for HTML and JSP contents of web-based application.  • Used Enterprise Java Beans (EJBs) extensively in the application. Developed and deployed Session Beans to perform user authentication.  • Involved in making security and search feature as separate Application Units of project.  • Automated the HTML and JSP pages indexing process of search module using Apache Ant tool and Singleton design pattern.  • Implemented client-side validations for Search and Security modules using JavaScript and Struts Validation Framework.  • Involved in documentation and bug fixing of various modules of the project.  • Tested JSPs and Servlets used in search, security and scheduler modules using Cactus API.  Environment: Java (J2SE), NetBeans, HTML, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, EJB, Struts Framework, Test Case, JUnit, ANT, Linux. Education Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Kakinada - Kakinada, Andhra Pradesh Bachelor's Skills Eclipse (7 years), J2EE (7 years), Java (8 years), JSP (8 years), SQL (7 years), J2EE/Java1.8, J2EE design patterns, CSS, HTML, Node.js, Angular 2, jQuery, JSP, JMS, Spring, Spring boot, Hibernate, XML, XSLT, DOM, SAX Parser, Java Beans, ANT, CVS, Restful Web Services, SOAP, RESTful Web services, EJB 3.0, Mongo DB, MySQL, Jira, Eclipse, Tomcat, Web Logic, IBM WebSphere, SOAP, Windows, Linux Additional Information SKILLS    Eclipse (7 years), J2EE (7 years), Java (8 years), JSP (8 years), SQL (7 years)    Technical Skills:  Languages Java [ ] C++  J2EE Technologies JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JNDI, JMS, RMI, EJB 3.x  Web Technologies HTML, DHTML, XHTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, Angular 2, Node.JS, CSS3, XML, XSD, XSL/XSLT, SAX/DOM, AJAX, JQuery, JSON  Frameworks  Struts 2.0/1.2, Spring 4.x/3.x/2.x, Spring MVC, Spring Cloud, Spring Data, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, JSF, SOAP UI, Groovy, Spring Security, Apache Camel.    Web Services SOAP, RESTful, UDDI, WSDL, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, JAXB, RESTful API.  Web/Application Servers Tomcat 4.x/5.4,IBM Web sphere7.1, JBoss 4.3/3.2, JBoss EAP 5.x/4.3, Web logic Database Oracle [ ] SQL-Server, MySQL, Cassandra, Mongo DB,DB2, Dynamo DB,  IDE's Eclipse, NetBeans, IntelliJ  O-R-Mapping Hibernate 4.x/3.x, JPA  Testing/Tracking Tools Junit, Quallity Center, Selenium, Jenkins, JIRA Logging Tools Log4J  Version Control CVS, SVN, Git Build/Automation Tools ANT, Maven  Cloud Technologies AWS(EC2, S3, EBS), Pivotal Cloud Foundry OS & Environment Windows Vista/XP/2000/NT, Linux