Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer Dallas, TX • Around 7+ Years of experience as developer in Software Development Life Cycle including Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Implementation of Cross Platform (Web application, Client-Server, Internet/Intranet) using JAVA/J2EE Technologies.  • My main area of experience has been project delivery, application design, application development, unit & integration testing, production support & enhancement of various size projects.  • Expertise in programming skills and development experience of multi-tier web applications, enterprise applications in languages/technologies like JAVA, J2EE, Struts, Spring, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, XML, Web services, SOA and Hibernate that ensures clear separation of layers and rapid application development.  • Extensive experience in developing web application using Spring Framework, Model View Controller (MVC) Architecture, Struts framework, Hibernate framework, XML, Ext.js.  • Experience in Hibernate O/R mapping tool.  • Applied Rational unified Process AGILE and SCRUM process in projects.  • Internet Programming with HTML, DHTML, Java Script, CSS, Angular JS and Backbone JS.  • Implemented UML modeling diagrams such as Use Cases, Activity diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Class Diagrams.  • Expertise in writing test cases using JUnit.  • Experience in deploying applications in web and app servers like BEA Web logic, Websphere8.1 Enterprise and Apache Tomcat Servers.  • Experience in preparing project related documents using Microsoft Office Suite like MS-Office, MS-Excel, MS-PowerPoint, MS-Visio, MS-Project Plan and etc.  • Quick learner with an ability to rapidly achieve organizational integration. Self-starter and highly motivated to learn new technologies. Efficient in Defect Management for resolving Integration Issues, System Testing Issues, User Acceptance Issues, Production Issues. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer Southwest Airlines - Dallas, TX December 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the application using Agile methodology.  • Used Spring AOP for cross cutting concerns and IOC for dependency injection.  • Defect fixing for defects identified in pre-production environments and production environment.  • Wrote technical design document with class, sequence, and activity diagrams in each use case.  • Developed the Application using Spring MVC Framework by implementing Controller, Service classes.  • Used Hibernate for persistence framework, Involved in creating DAO's and used Hibernate for ORM mapping.  • Written Java classes to test UI and Web services through JUnit.  • Responsible for designing Rich user Interface Applications using JavaScript, CSS, HTML.  • Developed single page web applications using Angular JS.  • Performed functional and integration testing, extensively involved in release/deployment related critical activities.  • Design and implementation of business logic and data processing routes using Apache Camel.  • Developed various web services for components like Recipient Enrollment, Provider Enrollment, Provider Search, Recipient Eligibility Verification using JAX-WS, JAXB, SOAP, WSDL and deployed on JBoss 5.1 enterprise server with JBoss Native and Metro stack using document literal style web services.  • Implemented Service Oriented Architecture by developing java web services using Node.js for the client side frameworks.  • Explored Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, and Hibernate in creating the POC.  • Done data manipulation on front end using JavaScript and JSON.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, spring, Apache Camel, Hibernate, CSS, Angular JS, JavaScript, JQuery, Oracle, JBoss, Eclipse, JUnit, JMS, HTML, XML, CMS Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Wells Fargo - San Francisco, CA February 2016 to November 2018 Responsibilities:  • Developed real time, asynchronous (using JMS, MQSeries) and batch processing web services to integrate with external systems like File Net Imaging Services, Pitney Bowes Address Verification, Validation and Geocoding modules, Pay Point payment gateway, and CICS modules on Internal server systems for credit Inquiry, NCID Security Integration and CNDS Recipient data real time synchronization.  • Responsible and mentored with team in complete software development lifecycle (SDLC) tasks - design, coding, testing, and documentation using Rational Unified Process (RUP) for analysis and design of application.  • Involved to SQL transactions to support e-commerce and other time-critical applications.  • Taken care of complete Java multithreading part in back end components.  • Developed the application using classical Model View Controller (MVC) architecture.  • Developed various web services for components like Recipient Enrollment, Provider Enrollment, Provider Search, Recipient Eligibility Verification using JAX-WS, JAXB, SOAP, WSDL and deployed on JBoss 5.1 enterprise server with JBoss Native and Metro stack using document literal style web services.  • Developed web services to interface with Mainframe CICS modules, and database tables from DB2 and SQL Server databases  • Configuration of LDAP Server on WebLogic Server to provide the Group and Roles Management outside WebLogic Server.  • Utilized Java Swing framework to develop client side components.  • Scripted and implemented automated unit test cases. Participated in product design and prototyping efforts. And Adhered to development methodology design and coding standards.  • Implemented Business processes such as user authentication, Transfer of Service using Session EJBs.  • Developed dynamic web pages using python Django Frameworks.  • Used python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • Experience in Java desktop application development, debugging, and performance tuning.  • Designed software and developed application and related components.  • Monitored software and performed root cause analysis and identified defect.  • Provided technical support to configurations of product and assisted in development activities.  • Generated an audit of baseline and configured Item Version control and monitored functioning.  • Ensured that all development process was carried in accordance to standards and regulations.  • Designed test plans for software and analyzed results.  • Coordinated with customers and provided support for software acceptance process.  • Provided feedback for process and gathered all necessary materials.  • Sound knowledge of Java desktop application and programming languages.  • Good understanding of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle), Java 1.4 and 1.5\.  • Used Web services - WSDL and SOAP for getting credit card information of the insured patients from third party.  • Used soapUI for load testing the Web Services.  • Worked on clustering web services using network switch, application routing and ESB deployment for transparent routing to layered web services framework.  • Developed MQSeries-JMS Bridge to interact with MQSeries queues. Posted and consumed recipient information to and from the queues.  • Developed UI components using JSP, Struts, CSS, JavaScript, JSON and AJAX for Recipient and Provider maintenance portals.  • Developed data access layer and components using JPA/Hibernate frameworks with spring framework support for object persistence to DB2 v10 on z/OS.  • Used session beans for web/web service development and entity beans using JPA and Hibernate for database integration.  • Developed SQL java stored procedures, deployed and run on server.  • Developed email clients for shared services and UI pages using Java Mail API, parsed and built XML parsing components using JAXP and JAXB.  • Performed requirement analysis, design specifications using UML, unit testing using soapUI, JUnit, DB Unit and integration testing, regression testing and load testing.  • Developed DB2 SQL queries, Hibernate HQL queries, configured and maintained JBoss Application server and Hudson Continuous Integration Server.  Environment: J2SE 6.0, J2EE 1.6, Spring 3.0, EJB 3.1, JDBC, JSP, XML, XSLT, HL7 XSD, SAX, Maven, WebLogic 9.2/12, DOM, JAXP, JAXB, SOAP, Python 2.7/3, JAX-WS, Java Swing, Java 1.4 , core java, Hibernate 4.3, JMS, MQ Series, Struts 2.0, AJAX, Tomcat 7.0, SQL, WSDL, DB2 v10, Apache 7.0, Ant, Eclipse, JBoss 5.1, Unix, Windows. Java Developer McDonalds - Oak Brook, IL February 2014 to January 2016 Responsibilities:  • Implementation of new module development, new change requirement, fixes the code.  • Defect fixing for defects identified in pre-production environments and production environment.  • Involved in Unit Testing of various modules by generating the Test Cases.  • Developed the Application using Spring Integration Framework by implementing Integration components to interact with other systems via JMS & MQ.  • Used Hibernate extensively to allow object-to-relational persistence framework.  • Used SVN for version control and JIRA for bug tracking.  • Involved in creating DAO's and used Hibernate for ORM mapping.  • Written Java classes to test UI and Web services through JUnit.  • Performed functional and integration testing, extensively involved in release/deployment related critical activities.  • Worked on the Spring IOC pattern to implement dependency injection along with Factory pattern for creating of objects that represents different type of test id's  • Consume the services using the interfaces created using the contract supplied by other systems.  • Involved in system wide enhancements supporting the entire system and fixing reported bugs.  Environment: JSP, Servlets, spring, Java Script, XML, JBoss, MS SQL, Ext.js. Java Developer Syntel - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2011 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • Enhancements to fix some coding errors and add some new functionality in the existing system.  • Defect fixing for defects identified in pre-production environments and production environment.  • Developed the Application using Springs MVC Framework by implementing Controller, Service classes.  • Implement Factory patterns for Services and Business delegates.  • Façade pattern to address the progressive addition of different type objects.  • Java Custom Tags from the Framework and Springs MVC for page controllers which part of the presentation layer.  • Used Hibernate extensively to allow object-to-relational persistence framework.  • Used Log4J logging framework for logging messages.  • Used CVS for version control and Bugzilla for bug tracking.  • Written Java classes to test UI and Web services through Junit.  • Produced database triggers and procedures to update real-time cash balances.  • Written procedures, and triggers for validating the consistency of Meta data.    Environment: Struts, JSP, spring, Hibernate, Java Script, XML, WebLogic8 Developer Prokarma - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2008 to June 2011 Responsibilities:  • Requirements consolidation by interacting with service areas.  • Conversion of functional requirements into High Level and Low level Designs.  • Responsible for design and development of UI and configured them using JSP.  • Implemented MVC pattern using Apache Struts.  • Developed a web based reporting system with DAO and Apache Struts-Validator using Struts framework.  • Struts framework components like Action Forms, Action Servlets, Action Mappings, Action Errors are used extensively.  • JSP, Servlets, Java, HTML and JavaScript are used for application development.  • Implemented application flows using MVC.  • Involved in preparation of Test cases.  • Responsible for the conforming to J2EE standards during implementation of designs.  • Involved in performance tuning, Unit testing, XML parsing.  • Actively participated in code-walkthrough, design reviews.    Environment: Portlets, JSP, Struts, EJB2.0, Postgres, JavaScript, Eclipse Oracle Application Server (OC4J). Education Bachelor's Skills ECLIPSE, J2EE, JAVA, JBOSS, jQuery, JSP, Hibernate, Spring, Javascript, Java J2Ee, JEE Certifications/Licenses Driver's License