Senior Android Developer Senior Android <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Android Developer - Barclays Dallas, TX • 7+ years of IT experience as a Developer in the development of Web, Server/Client, B2B and EAI applications. Over 5+ years of experience in Android Development, testing and deployment in both consumer and enterprise based mobile applications.  • Involved in all stages of the SDLC like designing, coding, implementation, testing and maintenance.  • Experience in various SDLC methodologies like Agiledevelopment and Rapid Application Development (RAD).  • Expertise in developing Android Enterprise applications for tablets and mobile devices using Eclipse, Android SDK, Android Studio and ADT development tools.  • Experienced in working with several versions of Android SDK like Gingerbread, Honey Comb, Ice Cream, Sandwich, Jellybean, Kit Kat,LolliPop and Marshmallow.  • Experience in using various development environments like Eclipse and MyEclipse.  • Experience in developing various UI components like TextView, Customized ListView, Menus, Edit Boxes, Checkboxes, Dialogs, Buttons, Status Notifications, Action Bars and Spinners.  • Strong experience with Android Framework APIs such as PhoneGap, Google Maps, Camera, Resource Manager, Fragments, Location Manager, Notification Manager, Content Providers, Contact Manager, Telephony API and REST APIs.  • Knowledge on Objective-C for iOS Application development  • Developed User Interfaces using HTML, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX,  • Developed Webkitbrowser based app using technologies like DOJO and PhoneGap.  • Designed User Interface using custom layouts, dialog boxes, buttons and alert boxes  • Experience in using JDBC for connecting to database for data exchange and retrieval.  • Expertise in Object Oriented Programming (OOP) and Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) concepts.  • Proficiency in developing applications using Spring Framework and Hibernate.  • Experience in JSON/XML based development for RESTweb services.  • Experience in different application servers such as WebLogic, WebSphere, Apache Tomcat and HTTP Server.  • Experience in developing UML Diagrams, Use Case Diagrams and Class Diagrams.  • Experience in using SQLite, MSSQL, SQL Server 2008, MySQL and Oracle 9i, 10g.  • Working knowledge of Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator and Dreamweaver.  • Experience in build technologies like ANT and Maven.  • Experience in different types of testing such as functional testing, regression testing and Emulator testing.  • Experience in developing JUnit test cases using PowerMock.  • Experience in Android debugging tools such as ADB, Trace, DDMS, Log Cat, Eclipse ADT Tools and Monitor.  • Excellent communication, organizational skills, attention to detail and the ability to meet tight deadlines Work Experience Senior Android Developer Barclays - Dallas, TX January 2016 to Present Description: Barclays is a British multinational banking and financial services company headquartered in London. It is a universal bank with operations in retail, wholesale and investment banking, as well as wealth management, mortgage lending and credit cards. Barclays is organized into four core business: Personal & Corporate, Barclaycard, Investment Banking and Africa.    Responsibilities:  • Worked in all phases of the project cycle such as design, development and testing.  • Developed User Interface using JSP, JavaScript, JQuery and CSS.  • Developed WebKit browser based app using technologies like DOJO and PhoneGap.  • Designed User Interface using custom layouts, dialog boxes, buttons and alert boxes.  • Used the Android SDK 3.2 for the application development.  • Used Titanium Appcelerator IDE and Java, Objective-C and JavaScript.  • Used MVC design pattern for mobile application design.  • Used Google Maps API for location services in the application.  • Used REST services to get XML and JSON responses and parsed them.  • Developed the picture capture feature for capturing checks using the device's camera.  • Used Web Views, List Views and populated lists to display lists in the application.  • Developed Filter View and Backend components using Spring MVC, JSTL, and JQuery.  • Used JiBX and Apache CXF frameworks to implement the RESTAPIs involved.  • Used MySQL database for storing information needed in the application.  • Developed SQL statements to create tables, triggers, views, functions and indices.  • Introduced clustered and non-clustered indexes in Oracle.  • Designed and developed SOA enterprise system using Oracle SOA Suite.  • Deployed EJB components on Oracle WebLogic.  • Developed a web 2.0 control console using GWT to manage data matching.  • Optimized UML design patterns such as DAO, Factory and Service Locator.  • Constructed http requests, fetched server response and parsed feeds wherever needed.  • Development access restriction features using Authentication and Authorization tokens.  • Employed Handlers, Services and AsyncTaskfor better application performance.  • Used AsyncTask to invoke web services in the background threads and get data in XML  • Used Maven to build application and deploy on WebSphere Application Server.  • Tested the application using different Android devices for bug identification and fixing.  • Worked with the web development team to integrate mobile app with the web app.  • Automated manual processes such as Screen Scraping by writing Ruby Scripts.  • Worked with several cross-functional teams in an Agile environment for development.  • Provided subsequent releases which included bug fixing and addition of new features.  • Developed detailed written resources manuals for step-by-step procedures.    Environment: Java, Android SDK 3.2, REST API (XML), MySQL, HTML5, Spring MVC, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS, Titanium, DOJO, Maven, WebSphere, WebLogic, PhoneGap and Google Maps API Senior Android Developer GEICO Insurance - Chevy Chase, MD January 2014 to December 2015 Description: GEICO is an American auto insurance company headquartered in Chevy Chase, MD. It is the second largest auto insurer in the United States. This project included the development of an Android application for GEICO. The application has multiple features like policy information, claims processing, accident reports, roadside assistance, accident assistance, billing methods, nearest agent's location, coverage changes and extras such as finding the nearest gas station, car buying service, taxi/ride service and parking. Users could pay bills, update insurance coverage, add/remove vehicles and also get new quotes, apart from the extra features.    Responsibilities:  • Designed UI Layout for UI operations in the mobile application.  • Actively involved in all phases of the SDLC in the project.  • Responsible for validation, design, development, testing and maintenance of the app.  • Coordinated with cross functional teams in all phases of the SDLC.  • Developed UI Layouts (Linear Layout, Relative Layout) using Android framework.  • Developed UI screens in both portrait and landscape modes.  • Used REST web services and XML parsing for secure data exchange.  • Used the Google Maps Android API V2 for location services in the application.  • Implemented customized web view components to load SWF files and HTML data.  • Used handlers and registry to design various background services.  • Handled UI updates using multi-threading technologies like AsyncTask.  • Created a rich and dynamic UI using HTML5, CSS, JavaScript and AJAX.  • Developed user login screens and context menus based on Android Menu Navigation.  • Designed context menus based on Tabbed Navigation Control and Action Bar  • Developed a UI and functionality for the authentication and authorization features.  • Developed single page web application using JavaScript framework (AngularJS).  • Extensive experience with Location Manager, Wi-Fi and Camera APIs.  • Added parser classes for Tablet including parsing JSON feeds.  • Developed UML Diagrams, Use Case Diagrams and Class Diagrams.  • Responsible for getting backend/business logic data using JSON queries.  • Developed server side web services using Spring MVC.  • Used Bluetooth APIs to connect and communicate with another Android device.  • Used OkHttp for networking operations related to the mobile application.  • Used SQLite for storing information required in the application.  • Developed the caching module for user profile caching in SQLite.  • Used SQL Helpers and Raw Queries for operations that match string patterns.  • Used GitHub as Version Control to push and commit changes in the code.  • Implemented third party libraries like CrashAnalyticsand GasBuddy APIs.  • Extensively involved in testing the application in the production environment.  • Actively coordinated with Configuration Manager for continuous integration.  • Responsible for Peer Code Review and Defect Resolutions.  • Actively involved in various tests like functional testing and regression testing.  • Debugged and fixed issues in the app after releasing into production environment.  • Debugged using ADB, Trace View, DDMS and Log Cat.  • Helped another mobile app developing team to develop the same application on IOS platform.  • Developed JUnit test cases by using PowerMock. Experience with Emulator Testing.  • Provided subsequent releases after adding new features like Recommendations.    Environments:Android 4.0, Linux, Java, Google API, Eclipse IDE, XML, Trace View, Log Cat, DDMS, ADB, Android APIs, JDK, REST, JSON, HTML, CSS, GPS, SQLite and DOM Android Developer FedEx - Memphis, TN September 2012 to December 2013 Description: Headquartered in Memphis, TN, FedEx is an American courier delivery services company with a strong global customer base. The Application developed was to track shipment packages, manage deliveries, update shipment information, customize shipments, provide estimated costs and find store locations. The application uses Google APIs for location services and allows drivers to send shipment notification to customer by scanning barcodes.    Responsibilities:  • Extensively involved in designing the user interface for easier access.  • Involved in brainstorming, creation and implementation for designs.  • Designed several prototypes for both the landscape and portrait modes.  • Used the Android SDK 2.2 and related APIs for the mobile application.  • Developed frontend application using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JSP.  • Used Google APIs for location functionalities of the application.  • Used Asynchronous tasks and alert notification APIs for event reminder features.  • Used Android content providers for features like sending emails and texts in the app.  • Used Eclipse 3.5 for Java based application development.  • Used SQLite databases for shipment information.  • Used DOM parser and other efficient data parsing techniques.  • Involved in application testing using various Android devices.  • Tracked bugs in the application in a production environment and fixed them.    Environment: Java, Android SDK 2.2, Eclipse 3.5, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSP, SQLite, Google APIs, XML Java/Android Developer NBCUniversal - New York, NY January 2011 to August 2012 Description: NBCUniversal is an American entertainment and media company involved in the marketing and production of news, entertainment, information products and services to a large global customer base. CNBC is a NBC-owned cable television network. The project involved developing an alarm application for the CNBC business customers. The application allows users to wake up to a stream of bulletin points and breaking business news including major stock tickers and indices such as Dow Jones and S&P.    Responsibilities:  • Developed using the concepts of Core Java in Eclipse IDE 3.5.  • Used the Android SDK and related APIs for the mobile application.  • Developed frontend application using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JSP.  • Designed Front Page and Categories section screens using Photoshop.  • Handled user sessions and populated user information on the screen.  • Used GPS modules for location based functionalities in the application.  • Designed prototype applications with integrated features for testing.  • Developed voice search and quick search functionalities using the Google APIs.  • Customized different views to suit the design mockup trials.  • Bright Cove API was used for video streaming in the application.  • Parsed XML response using REST web services for stock market tickers.  • Used JDBC for database connectivity and data retrieval.  • Used JSON for easy data storage and exchange.  • Used GIT for Version Control System.  • Designed and created domain model, schema and UML diagrams.  • Used the Android DDMS tool for port-forwarding, screen capture and debugging.  • Involved in product debugging using Eclipse and JIRA Bug Tracking.  • Involved in System Testing using JUnit testing framework.    Environments: Java, Android SDK, Android Studio, HTML, CSS, XML, GPS, JSON, REST, Eclipse IDE 3.5, GIT, DDMS console, ADB Server, Emulator, ADT Plug-In and Adobe Photoshop Java Developer HSBC - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2009 to December 2010 Description: HSBC is a British multinational financial and banking corporation headquartered in London, UK. The Hyderabad, India branch primarily works on internal software engineering, data processing, frontend application development and customer service.    Responsibilities:  • Built Java applications using concepts of Core Java.  • Developed using the MVC architecture along with the Spring 2.5 framework.  • Designed and developed user interfaces using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JSP.  • Developed several reusable web components using JSP, Java Beans and Servlets.  • Used JDBC concepts to establish connection and use the Oracle database.  • Deployed the application in Apache Tomcat server in the production environment.  • Participated in design decision making and implementation.  • Prepared designed documents for future reference for developers.  • Extensively involved in testing and maintenance of the existing applications.  • Developed JUnit test cases for application and system testing.  • Implemented CVS as Version Control System.    Environments: Java, J2EE, JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JDBC, Servlets, Spring 2.5 Framework, Apache Tomcat 5.0 and Oracle 10g Education Bachelor's Skills CSS (8 years), JAVA (8 years), JAVASCRIPT (8 years), ANDROID (6 years), DATABASE (5 years), Java, Android SDK 3.2, REST API (XML), MySQL, HTML5, Spring MVC, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS, Titanium, DOJO, Maven, WebSphere, WebLogic, PhoneGap and Google Maps API Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Programming Languages C, C++, C# Java, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS, AngularJS, JQuery, PLSQL and Objective-C  Development Tools Eclipse 3.x, Net Beans, Android Studio Eclipse, GDB, Android Access and Visual Studio.  Operating Systems Android, Windows (Vista/7/Server 2008), Unix and Linux, iOS  Database Management Systems SQLite 3.11, Oracle 10g, MySQL 4.0/5.0/5.5  Web Servers Apache Tomcat, WebSphere, HTTP Server, Apache ANT, Maven and WebLogic.