Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - University of California, SFO, CA California City, CA • Over 9+ Years of experience in analysis, design and development of Java Applications in a highly dynamic and challenging environment.  • 2 plus years of experience in using AWS EC2,S3,Route 53,Elastic Beanstalk, Elastic search , Cloud Watch, AWS Mobile Hub, Amazon messaging services(SQS and SNS), Lambda and Amazon Kinesis Services.  • 1 year of experience with Openstack cloud.  • 3 Years of experience in Python Programming for development and code deployment across many platforms.  • 3+ years of experience with Apache Spark, Scala, BigData.  • Good experience in developing dynamic websites using the MEAN stack.  • Experience on working with CSS background, CSS layouts, CSS positioning and CSS behaviors.  • 3 years of experience working on drools engine, drools expert and drools fusion.  • Over 6 years of experience using AngularJS, Node.js.  • 4 Years of experience using ReactJS and working with React Flux Architecture.  • Hands-on experience in Angular5, Angular4.  • 1 Year experience with Splunk Enterprise and Splunk SDK for Java.  • Over 4 years of experience using Microservices using Sringboot and Jersey Frameworks.  • Over 3 years of experience in search API's Solr.  • Used Scala sbt to develop Scala coded spark projects.  • 3 plus years experience managing UNIX/Linux environment  • 3 years experience in UNIX shell, Perl, or similar scripting languages  • Hands-on 2 years of experience in Lucene.  • Strong experience on work with the Apigee API management platform.  • Experience in API Gateways like Amazon API, Oracle API Gateway and Apigee API gateway.  • Extensive experience in Software Configuration Management using Version Control Software such as SVN, CVS and GIT.  • Strong experience in Bluefish, Anjuta IDE's for Linux development.  • Expertise in GUI Design using HTML, XML, JQuery, Java Script, Polymers, AngularJS, Node.js, DHTML, and JSP.  • Strong Experience in using XML Suite technologies (XML, XSL, XSLT, DOM and XML Beans).  • More than 3 years of experience using BPM tools like JBPM, Oracle BPM.  • Experienced on Agile Methodology  • Good experience in developing web service development.  • Good knowledge in Concepts of Object oriented JavaScript.  • Good knowledge in developing single page applications (SPA s) using the JavaScript libraries like AngularJS and MeteorJS.  • Good understanding on using Aurelia, the next generation JavaScript MVC framework and writing ECMASRIPT 6 and ECMASCRIPT 7.  • 2+ years of experience in using Mongo DB.  • Hands on experience in using Amazon Dynamo db.  • Hands on experience in working with both angular 1 and angular 2versions.  • Good knowledge in using other successful data virtualization tools like Citrix.  • Good understanding on basic switching and routing.  • Hands on experience on using SDN and SDMN technology.  • 1 year experience using the Yang Data modelling language.  • 1 year experience in using Jasmine open source testing framework.  • Participated in all phases of SDLC like Requirements Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing, and Deployment.  • Over 4 years of strong experience in Spring boot using various versions such as 1.0.0, 1.5.5, 2.0.0.  • Expertise in J2EE Technology's (Servlets, JSP, JDBC, EJB, JNDI, JSTL, JSON, POJO, JMS, JSF My Faces, Prime Faces, JPA, JAX-WS, JAX_RS).  • Excellent understanding of Object Oriented design methodology and Core Java concepts such as multi- threading, exception handling, generics, annotations, Collections and I/O.  • Strong Expertise in Data structure concepts  • Experience in Hashing, Search and Sort algorithms.  • Expertise in open source frameworks Spring, Hibernate and Struts.  • Actively involved in Service Oriented Architecture using web services.  • Expertise in using SOAP and RESTFUL for implementing web services.  • Experience in Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic and Tomcat.  • Good experience in databases such as SQL Server [ ] Oracle, DB2, NoSQL and MySQL.  • Strong experience in using Dynamic Programming for problem solving.  • Strong experience with rule engines like Drools, ILOG.  • Experienced in developing middleware applications using Spring IOC, Spring Integration, Spring WS, and Spring WS Security.  • Actively involved in using business process management tools like JBPM, Activiti BPM.  • Extensive experience in Software Configuration Management using Version Control Software such as SVN, CVS and GIT.  • Experience in build tools like Ant & Maven, logging with Log4j, Test Driven Development using Junit.  • Experience with React.js workflows Flux, Redux.  • Experience in using isomorphic react.  • Good knowledge in implementing various Design Patterns Singleton, Factory pattern, Abstract Factory pattern and DAO pattern.  • Experience in creating Unified Modeling Language (UML) diagrams such as Use Case Diagrams, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, and Class Diagrams, Deployment Diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Worked in both Unix/Linux and Windows based development environments.  • Good programming and debugging skills in Unix Shell Scripting.  • Expertise in database modeling and development using SQL and PL/SQL in Oracle (8i, 9i and 10g), DB2 and SQL Server environments.  • Experience in using ANT for build automation.  • Versatile team player with good communication, analytical, presentation and inter-personal skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Developer University of California, SFO, CA - Berkeley, CA June 2017 to Present is committed to continuously improving the delivery of campus information technology (IT) projects that are within budget and on schedule to serve the members of the campus community and achieve campus strategic goals. This policy is designed to help ensure that campus information technology (IT) projects meet these objectives by establishing a common and consistent set of project management best practices to reduce project risks and increase project successes.    Responsibilities  • Created Maven build file to build the application and deployed on Web Sphere Application Server.  • Used JSON to transmit the data from server application layers to web application layers.  • Worked with unit testing of javascript applications using Karma, Jasmine, apimocker, Jest, enzyme.  • Built APIs in NodeJS within a Microservice AWS lambda architecture.  • Used SpringBoot framework to deploy microservices for the web application.  • Build several Unix Shell wrappers for Pro*C programs to schedule them on Cron.  • Wrote Unix shell scripting for executing any task in Cron scheduler.  • Wrote UNIX script to make sms and ftp to push those sms.  • Scheduling the jobs in Unix Cron.  • Providing data of Dedup on daily biases.  • Implemented code for using Mail through Unix for report and job status.  • Used RMON to collect information about specific groups of statistics for long-term trend analysis.  • Responsible to lead a team of java developers for back-end JS using Node.js to handle web page requests and data transfers.  • Used LINUX in the initial stages of web and application development.  • Built REST full webservices using spring.  • Deployed and developed the web application with REST using Spring Boot.  • Use WebMvcTest for Spring Boot Unit testing for the web application.  • Used Axios with ReactJs for making AJAX Calls. Worked on Webpack for build and webpack-dev-server a server.  • Integration Testing for different layers of application code was done by SpringBootTest.  • Research about of JBPM process engine for use in the implementation of Flow Control System.  • Used Drools fusion to manage event submission and processing based on each activity in the workflow.  • Used OptaPlanner for automated planning of specific use-case problems.  • Design and manipulation of JBPM process for the client activities in order to manage the people queue for each activity.  • Design and generation of the database for the Flow Control System of People.  • Design and implementation of main functions of the Flow Control System of People.  • Deployed and developed my project using AWS EC2, S3, Data pipeline, Elastic Beanstalk, cloud watch, Elastic search, AWS server migration service, Lambda, Amazon messaging services (SQS and SNS) and Amazon Kinesis services.  • Used Apigee API management platforms for both web and mobile application from back-end workloads running on Amazon EC2, code running on AWS Lambda.  • Used the AWS mobile hub service for creating and configuring powerful mobile app backend features required for our company's new mobile app.  • Used Angular2 and Angular4 in the initial stages of client side development then moved onto Angular5 in the later stages.  • Used Splunk Enterprise for analyzing our Mobile and web applications Big Data pattern.  • Performed routine monitoring of the router cycle using Angular5.  • Worked with Passport and JSON web tokens for authentication and authorization security configurations using Node.js.  • Worked with npm commands and using package.json for managing dependencies and dev-dependencies of node.js applications.  • Used Angular5 for continuous and incremental compilations.  • Used Node.js and ExpressJS for SPA of the web development part of the project.  • User authentication using JWT(Json web tokens).  • Member data was stored in MongoDB and replication sets were migrated from SQL Server.  • Used JSON for accessing data from AngularJS to Node.js API's.  • Did the testing and monitoring and visualized how our mobile app built is being used.  • Used the AWS mobile hub for quick storing and retrieval of app data in AWS Dynamo DB.  • Used the AWS mobile SDK which helps to build high quality mobile apps quickly.  • Used AWS data pipeline service for moving data between AWS compute and storage services and created complex data processing fault tolerant and repeatable workloads.  • Used AWS Elastic Beanstalk service for deploying various infrastructures which orchestrates various AWS services.  • Used Amazon Elastic search service for application monitoring and full text search.  • Used Amazon SQS queuing service for reliable communication among distributed software components and micro services and used Amazon SNS push notification service for sending individual messages to mobile device users, email recipients and to distributed users.  • Used Amazon RedShift to handle all the analytical workloads using parallel processing.  • Used GWT and Amazon AWS (EC2/S3/EBS) for prototyping and subsequent evaluation.  • Developed single page applications using React Redux architecture, ES6, web pack and grunt.  • Developed screens for the front end using ReactJS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager).  • Involved in creating a reusable component using React JS for DOM manipulation  • Worked heavily on CSS3 and LESS layout for DOM manipulation.  • Closely worked with Application using React.JS and Node.js libraries NPM, gulp directories to generate desired view and flux to root the URL's properly.  • Develop various screens for the front end using React JS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and Redux libraries.  • Used Scala for mobile application back-end services using PhoneGap for the applications use over multiple platforms.  • Implemented Event Sourcing using Akka.  • Implemented design patterns in Scala for the application.  • Serialize and de-serialize objects using Play Json lib.  • Used Apache Kafka for keeping the track of all the activities on the website, used for some of the large scale message processing applications and Inter process messaging for temporary storage of messages rather than the messages being stored in long term memory storages.  • Used KMP algorithm technique for pattern matching.  • Used Merge sort algorithm to differentiate between active and inactive users of the mobile app.  • Developed search handlers by using Apache Solr which includes custom search handlers and custom functions.  • Was responsible for master-slave replications in Solr search engine.  • Used Solr 6.2.1 for data import using JDBC, Flatfile.  • Developed full text search handlers over cross-platform using Lucene.  • Used BAMBOO for simultaneous integration and deployment for both web application and mobile application server.  • Used Apache CXF for building and developing services and used frontend programming API s like JAX WS and JAX-RS  • Using Java Messaging Service JMS for messaging, configured queues and topics on the WebLogic 10.3 Application Server and used them for messaging.  • Developed Oracle PL/SQL Stored Procedures and Queries for Payment release process and authorization process.  • Developed Servlets and JSPs based on MVC pattern using Struts framework and Spring Framework.  • Deployed the application on WebLogic Application Server cluster on Solaris 10 environment  • Implemented Persistence layer using Hibernate to interact with the Oracle database, Used Hibernate Framework for object relational mapping and persistence.  • Used Python programming and language to develop a working and efficient network within the company  • Utilized Python in the handling of all hits on Django Redis and other application.  • Performed research regarding Python Programming and its uses and efficiency  • Converted Python code into C using Cython.  • Used DASK to efficiently distribute python jobs across all the systems.  • Used High Performance Analytics Toolkit (HPAT) to compile a subset of Python to code to parallelize it across clusters using mpirun utility.  • Designed and developed Enterprise Eligibility business objects and domain objects with Object Relational Mapping framework such as Hibernate.  • Adopt Agile Methodology to plan using JIRA.  • Development of UI modules using HTML, JSP, JavaScript, AngularJS and CSS.  • Worked on Angular 2.0 version for mobile app development.  • Used ECMAScript6 (ES6) for writing complex applications and modules.  • Implemented application level persistence using Hibernate and spring.  • Worked on the Visual Yang designer 6.2 version for loading existing YANG and YIN models.  • Used JQuery to make the frontend components interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Analyzed changes in online transactional processing, business processes, and modifications, to improve quality of applications and meet additional requirements through MongoDB.  • Built a highly scalable, low-latency Node-JS API Gateway to interact with MongoDB database with JSON.  • Worked on the Node v6.0.0 version of Node JS.  • Used the web application framework Express for designing web applications and API s  • Developed Servlets and JSPs based on MVC pattern using Spring Framework.  • Developed PL/SQL procedure for login module and registration module.  • Used JDBC to connect to the information model tier.  • Used Eclipse IDE for designing, coding and developing applications  • Written JUNIT (TDD) test cases for testing Spring Framework classes and wrote many Java Scripts to do client side validations.  • Used Jasmine testing framework for JavaScript. Run the Jasmine tests by using Karma, a simple JavaScript test runner tool.  • Used Apache Hadoop framework for distributed storage and the processing of big data sets.  • Configured Maven dependencies for application building processes that created Pom.xml files.  • Make files and the like. Worked with Clear case source management.  • Enhanced and created new Jasper Reports according to the requirements.  • Installed and configured a multi-server, clustered ILOG environment. Documented architecture and trained client administrators.  • Worked extensively in Struts, EJB 3.0 and JPA in other maintenance projects.  • Involved in agile planning and Estimation Sessions of user stories and also participating in Scrum Meetings to update the status daily.    Environment: Spring, Hibernate, Weblogic, Rest, JQuery, JavaScript, JSON, JSP, WebSphere, Drools, JSTL, Servlets, AWS, SDN, Oracle, , Mongo DB, Apache, PL/SQL, JDBC, EJB, UML, Eclipse, JUnit, Maven, Apache Hadoop , JBPM, Drools, Apache CXF, Amazon Elastic search, Express, , HTML, JSP, JavaScript, Angular 2.0, ECMAScript6, Node.js v6.0.0, CSS, Clear case, Jasmine, Jasper Report, ILOG, Agile, SOAP Sr. Java Developer Singleton Marine - Atlanta, GA October 2014 to June 2017 The Purpose of this project is to significantly reduce the manual process and automate the business process. This is related to the membership agreements and to enable business process re-engineering through the implementation of web Services. The agreement creation functionality in the Existing Application replaced with the functionality of MAX. When user selects a specific product, the pricing will be automatically populated based on the selection. This application provides more stream lined data entry than the existing system and electronic capturing of member signatures to improve the quality of agreement.    Responsibilities  • Worked in an Agile Environment and participated in requirement gathering, analysis and design  • Implemented Business Delegate, Design, Facade, Service locator, Singleton, Factory method, Template method, Observer, Data Access Objects, Transfer Objects JEE design patterns.  • Used Jersey to deploy Microservices for JAX-RS API's.  • Used OpenStack Swift for media and document storage and Cinder to create virtual disks of memory.  • Used Sahara for Big data processing/ parallel processing using Hadoop.  • Used OpenStack Heat to reduce duplication of files and store only the components that were necessary to run.  • Worked with MEAN/ MERN stack for developing applications.  • Worked with modules like MongoDB and mongoose for database persistence using Node.js to interact with MongoDB.  • Developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) to track sales and perform sales analysis using Flask, SQLAlchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Performed Full-text search using Solr search handlers on the data.  • Did Field faceting and Query Faceting to make counts of search result data.  • Use Apache Lucene for real time search.  • Implemented Spark using Scala and Spark SQL for faster testing and processing of data.  • Implemented Spark using Scala and utilizing Data frames and Spark SQL API for faster processing of data.  • Developed and designed an API (RESTful Web Service) for the company's website.  • Developed and designed e-mail marketing campaigns using HTML and CSS.  • Implemented the service layer based on a spring container and exploited Spring'sIOC features for bean management.  • Part of the implementation which did a complete End to End automation of new Business Process using Oracle BPM.  • Automation, integration and optimization of Business Process.  • Done the Simulation rule analysis for the Process.  • Provided an analysis report that shows the data about the particular process instance.  • Implemented rule services on Product and Plan details created complex and powerful rules with conditions based on business rules.  • Used Maven for dependencies in Spring Boot and testing through various using DataJPATest.  • Used embedded web server deployment in Spring Boot for deployment of web application.  • Used Oracle API Gateway for service-oriented architecture (SOA) and its deployment across domain boundaries and in the cloud enabling organizations.  • Used Apigee API manager to manage all the browser based API gateway and mobile API gateway from a single domain.  • Used Apache Tomcat in Spring Boot to communicate with the Spring MVC Controller.  • Implemented the persistence layer using Hibernate-ORM. Worked on Spring Web Flow on Spring MVC for building flows in our web application.  • Implemented jQuery based accordion styles and handled complete jQuery in showing Rich Internet application.  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, BootStrap, AJAX, Angular.js, React.js and JSON.  • Developed JBPM workflow process, rules with help of Drools engine. Wrote services for business layer using core java/ Spring concepts.  • Developed various UI (User Interface) components using Struts (MVC), JSP, and HTML.  • Developed application on spring 3.x framework by utilizing its features like Spring Dependency injection, Spring Security, Spring Web flow with Spring MVC. Used spring's dependency injection for injecting entity manager and managed beans into spring beans.  • Working extensively with Hibernate Query Language (HQL) to store and retrieve the data from oracle database. Developed Enterprise JavaBeans (EJB 3.0) for implementing application's business rules and policies.  • Developed unit testing the applications using JunitFramework and developed logging and standard mechanism based on Log4j.  • Developed and writing unit tests on both client and JS server side using Jasmine, Mocha and Chai frameworks.  • Familiarity with Service oriented architecture (SOA) by developing and consuming Restful web services based on JAX-RS and Jersey. Coded JSP pages and used JavaScript for client side validations and to achieve other client-side event handling.  • Designed the user interface of the application using HTML5, CSS3, Boot Strap, Java Server Faces 2.0 (JSF 2.0), JSP, JSTL, JavaScript, AngularJS, ReactJS Node JS, and AJAX. Coded in AngularJS MVC Framework to make single page app (spa) for specific module and complex price configurations pages.  • Used Spring Security framework for login authentication, password hashing. Worked on Java Message Service (JMS) API for developing message oriented middleware (MOM) layer for handling various asynchronous requests. Worked with topic for creating publish/subscribe-messaging model.  • Used D3.js and Angular to construct data visualization. Developed persistence layer based on JPA framework for providing POJO persistence model for object-relational mapping.  • Used Concurrent Version System (CVS) as source control tool. Developed unit test cases and suits on Junit framework for unit testing. Used Maven for building, deploying application, creating JPA based entity objects and compiling GWT application.  • Used XML parser API's like JAXB API within the web service for marshalling/unmarshalling.  • Used Business Process and Decision Management Design using JBoss JBPM and JBoss Drools Rules Engine.  • Developed the web applications even under pressure when time line occurs.  • Involved in designing and development of web interface using JSP, Servlets, and JavaScript.  • Tested each and every application with using validators and handled multiple modules simultaneously to achieve the application.    Environment: Spring 3.1, J2EE 1.7, Spring JDBC Template, Spring Batch, AJAX, XML, CSS, CSS 3, HTML 5, JavaScript, Oracle 10g/11i, Maven 3.0.3, MYSQL 6.1, Bootstrap, JUNIT, Jasmin, Mocha, JQuery, Angular.js, React.js, JUnit, REST, STS 3.5.1(eclipse), Core Java, JSP's, Action Components, Tomcat Web Server. Sr. Java Developer Frontier Communications - Richardson, TX January 2012 to September 2014 Frontier Communications Corporation is a telephone company in the United States, mainly serving rural areas and smaller communities. Frontier is the sixth largest local exchange carrier and the fifth largest provider of digital subscriber line (based on coverage area) in the United States. In addition to local and long-distance telephone service, Frontier offers broadband Internet, digital television service, and computer technical support to residential and business customers.    Responsibilities  • Involved in complete software development life cycle management using UML (Unified Modeling Language) - Requirements gathering, Conceptual design, Analysis, Detailed design, and Development.  • Coding interfaces for Web Services  • Used Springboot for web application development with the help of Spring Initializers.  • Application was developed using Spring MVC Web flow modules  • Implemented spring framework for application transaction management  • Created connections to database using Hibernate Session Factory, using Hibernate APIs to retrieve and store data to the database with Hibernate transaction control.  • Involved in the development of Page Flows, Business Objects, Hibernate database mappings and POJOs. Used xml style syntax for defining object relational metadata.  • Used Spring ORM to integrate Spring Framework with hibernate and JPA.  • Used Springs JDBC and DAO layers to offer abstraction for the business from the database related code.  • Used Spring AOP module to handle transaction management services for objects in any Spring-based application.  • Used Spring MVC framework& Integration for Server side programming.  • Responsible to update/verify CDM for release level tasks.  • Developed JavaScript code for Client Side Validations. Involved in JAD sessions, documenting system requirements, creating application designs, validating high-level designs (HLDs) to ensure accuracy and completeness against the business requirements and programming the solutions.  • Developed Servlets and JSP to interact with Enterprise Java Beans (EJB) containing all the Business Logic.  • Used Hibernate as the persistence layer to interact with Oracle DB.    Environment: Spring Framework 3.0, Hibernate, Java 1.6, DHTML, HTML, CSS, Servlets, UML, J2EE,JSP, EJB, Struts Framework Taglibs, SQL, Java Script, Oracle 11g,Websphere Application Server, Eclipse, JUnit, JMock, WSDL, Web services, XML, XSLT, XSD (Schema Designs), SOAP 1.2,XPath, XQuery, UNIX, UML, JNDI, JDBC, JMS, Rational Clear Quest, Tortoise CVS. Java Developer BHEL June 2009 to December 2011 BHEL products is due to adherence to international standards by acquiring and adapting some of the best technologies from leading companies in the world including General Electric Company, Alstom SA, Siemens AG and Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd., together with technologies developed in its own R&D centers. Most of its manufacturing units and other entities have been accredited to Quality Management Systems (ISO 9001:2008), Environmental Management Systems (ISO 14001:2004) and Occupational Health & Safety Management Systems (OHSAS 18001:2007).    Responsibilities  • Modeled UML 2.x (Class Diagrams and sequence Diagrams) using Rational Rose.  • Implemented different Design patterns like DTO, DAO, Service Locator Pattern, Singleton Pattern and MVC architectural design pattern for solving the architectural issues.  • Involved in the design of Relational Database Schema with Entity Relationship diagrams  • Analysis, design and development of Application based on J2EE and Design Patterns.  • Developed Application using an enhanced framework based on Apache Struts.  • Used JDBC for database connectivity with the application.  • Developed some of the presentation layer interfaces, JSP's and Java Beans.  • Client side Data Validations are performed using JavaScript.  • Used JSTL and custom tag libraries in place of script lets.  • Extensively used XML and XSLT style sheets.  • Implemented the application and bug fixes in production environment.  • Created Tables and SQL Queries to insert and fetch the data from the database.  • Developed Enterprise Java Beans (Session Beans) to perform middle ware services and interact with DAO layer to perform database operations like update, retrieve, insert and delete.  • Involved in writing the ANT scripts for automating the process of building, testing and deploying the system.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4J and fixed the problems.  • Developed the test cases using Junit to test.  • Used Microsoft Visual SourceSafe (VSS) to check out project and maintain various versions of the project.    Environment: J2EE, Struts, Servlets, spring, EJB, AJAX, HTML, CSS, XML, Ant, JavaScript, Oracle 10G, Eclipse 3.0, VSS, Web Sphere 5.x, Log4J. Education Bachelor's Skills database (9 years), EJB (9 years), HTML (9 years), java (9 years), javascript (9 years) Additional Information SKILL SUMMARY    Platforms: Windows 2000/NT/ XP/Vista and Sun Solaris 2.8/2.9, UNIX  Programming: JDK 1.5, 1.6, 1.7,1.8, C, C++  Server Scripting: JSP1.2,2.1, JSP-EL, JSTL, Custom Tags  Client Scripting: JQuery 1.8,1.9, JQueryUI, LESS, Dojo, ExtJs, Webpack, AngularJS, JavaScript, CSS2, CSS3, HTML4, HTML5, Node.js, Bootstrap  JS frameworks: AngularJS, Ember.js, Vue.js, ReactJS, ExpressJS.  Java Frameworks: Struts 1.2, Struts 2.1, Spring MVC,DI, AOP, JSF 1.1, JSF 2.1, GWT, Vaadin, Spring Boot 1.4, 1.5, 1.5.7 GA, 2.0.0 MA  Database Tools: Toad for Oracle, Toad for MySQL, Toad for DB2, Interactive SQL, Batch SQL, HiveQL, Toad for MS-SQL, ERWin, Altova Database Spy, MySQL Workbench,  Databases: DB2, MS-SQL Server, HSQLDB, PostgresSQL, MySQL  Middleware  Network Protocols: EJB 2.1, EJB 3.0, CORBA, RMI, JMS, Active MQ SNMP, ICMP  Version Control: Tortoise SVN, Rational ClearCase, Accurev, GitHub, CVS  IDEs: Eclipse 3.0, 3.1, MyEclipse 4.1, IntelliJ, Netbeans, JBuilder 2007, JDeveloper.  Build Tools: ANT 1.7, 1.8, 1.9, Maven, Gradle  Continuous Integration: Jenkins, Hudson  XML Tools: Altova XML Spy 2005, 2008  XML Technologies: XSLT, JAXP, JDOM, SAX, DOM, XPATH, XPOINTER, XML, XSD, DTD  Webservice Specifications: JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, JAX-RS  Webservice Tools: SoapUI 4.0, 5.1, TcpMon, RESTful API's  Webservice  Implementations: Axis 1.0, 2.1, JWSDP2.1, Sun Metro, Sun Jersey, Apache XFire, Apache CXF  Whitebox Testing: Junit 3, Junit 4, DBUnit, JUnitPerf, HttpUnit, LoadTest, TimedTest, Selenium, Fitnesse, EasyMock, PowerMock  Blackbox Testing: JMeter, LoadUI, LoadRunner, HP Quality Center, WinRunner,  Application Servers: Weblogic 8.1, 10.0, Websphere 6.1, JBoss 4.0, Glassfish 4.0  Web Servers: Tomcat 5.0, 6.0, 7.1, Joans  UML Tools: Altova UML Model, Rational Enterprise, MS Visio  ORM Frameworks: Hibernate 3.0, 3.1, 4.1, TopLink, OpenJPA, iBatis  Defect Tracking: JIRA, Bugzilla, Rational ClearQuest  Methodologies: Agile (XP, Scrum), Rational Unified Process (RUP), Waterfall, Kanban  Reporting: iReports, JReports.  Batch Jobs: Quartz Scheduler, Cron, Spring Batch.  HTML Editors: MS-Frontpage 2003, Adobe Dreamweaver, Coffee Cup HTML.  Tinplating: Velocity, Freemarker AWS API, Oracle API 11g  Search APIs and API  Gateway: Solr, Lucene, Apigee API gateway.