Senior Java Full Stack Developer Senior <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Java Full Stack Developer - Morgan Stanley New York, NY • 12+years of experience in the analysis, development, testing and maintenance of Java/JEE applications  • Extensive backend development experience using: Core Java 8, Microservices. Spring, Spring Integration, AWS, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Spring Data JPA, Spring Data REST, Scala, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Struts, Spring Security, JWT, OAuth 2.0 Spring Cloud, Micro Services, Azure  • Extensive front-end development experience using: all major versions of Angular, AngularJS, Angular 2, 4 6 and 7. Bootstrap, Angular CLI, Angular Unit testing with Karma-Jasmine, Typescript, Webpack, Grunt, Jasmine and Karma, React 16.8, Redux 4, Redux Observable, Apollo GraphQL, Typescript, Node.js, Rxjs, Ngrx, ExpressJS, MongoDB (NoSQL), RedisD3.js, Amazon S3, Angular Material Design, Bootstrap3, Struts 2  • Extensive experience working with Java Spring, EJB 3.0 using JBoss and Websphere, distributed publish-subscribe messaging systems like Apache Kafka  • Extensive TDD test automation and test coverage using Junit, Mockito, EasyMock, Joco Reports for test coverage  • Extensive experience in CI/CD using Ant, Maven, Gradle, Jenkins Pipeline Scripting, Artifactory  • Extensive experience with Soap and Restful Web Services using JAX-WS and JAX-RS  • Extensive experience in Core Java 8, Spring Boot, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services, Kubernetes, Swagger, Docker  • Experience in Middleware technologies (JMS, ActiveMQ) and integration frameworks like Apache Camel.  • Extensive experience with TDD using JUNIT, Mockito, TestNG, EasyMock using Jococo Reports for test coverage  • Extensive experience writing queries and stored procedures using Oracle 12c.  • Experience using MongoDB, Apache Hadoop Big Data using Apache Spark, Kafka, Oozie, HDFS in Java 8  • Extensive domain experience in Equities, Derivatives and Fixed Income(Fixed Income Pricing and Analytics)  • Extensive experience with JavaScript library frameworks primarily using Angular, React, AngularJS, TypeScript, Karma, jQuery and Node.js and component-based Java frameworks like Apache JSF, Apache Tapestry and GWT.  • Extensive experience in database programming and writing SQL and PL/SQL Stored Procedures.  • Strong experience in XML related technologies including XSD, DTD, XSLT, XQuery, XPATH, DOM and SAX,  • Hands on experience in Information exchange protocols like Financial Information Exchange (FIX).  • Extensive experience working with Unix platforms and Bash Shell Scripting.  • In-depth experience working with Oracle, Maven, Ant, SVN, Jenkins, Apache Tomcat and JBoss.  • Performance testing using Apache JMeter, JProfiler and web testing using SoapUI and Web Selenium. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Java Full Stack Developer Morgan Stanley - New York, NY February 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked within the Treasury Capital Markets Group on a Global Liquidity Reserves Platform that manages the firm's unsecured debt, current liquidity and its funding needs.  • The platform reports current and historical liquidity risks used by regional desks and Treasury Senior Management and provides key metrics such as unsecured debt, annual maturity profile, liquidity coverage ratio.  • Implemented the back-end Restful Service for a Rules Engine System that maintains a set of rules and trade deals  • Worked extensively with Java Spring, Spring Boot and Restful Web Services.  • Worked extensively with Spring Boot, Spring Cloud and Spring Security. Spring MVC, jQuery, React  • Worked with Spring Security Bootstrap and Hibernate  • Worked with frontend framework react-bootstrap.  • Worked with Redux, Scss and webpack 2, mocha/chai and enzym.  • Worked extensively with AngularJS, Bootstrap and React for front end projects.  • Created stored procedures using PL/SQL.  • Worked extensively with AWS, EC2, S3.  • Docker and Kubernetes in a Java/Devops role.  • Virtualized the servers using Docker for the test and dev environment configuration automation using Docker containers.  • Worked with Express.js and Node 8+  • Worked extensively with Redis in-memory cache database  • Worked on UI components using React and Redux  • Worked on web applications implemented using Node.JS  • Worked extensively with MongoDB  • Wrote stored procedures using MySQL  • Implemented using Spring Boot. Worked with Docker and Kubernetes Microservices.  • Implemented server side components and front-end components primarily leveraging Java 8, Spring-Boot, Core Java, Hibernate, Restful Web Service and Angular using GIT Agile Teams  • Worked with Scala and Python for backend services  • Monitor MySQL Database Backup on AWS cloud S3 (CLI).  • Configured Kuberenetes files worked with Docker.  • Developed a Rules Maintenance screen that provides a user interface to navigate real-time data flow (bookings, FX rates, intercompany loans) using Angular best practices.  • Using AWS, Docker and Kubernetes for deployments.  • Provided second level support to a system that provides a workflow to issue debt within the firm worked on FIX, Apache Camel, GWT and was involved in trouble shooting server side issues and writing JUnit test cases.  Environment: Spring-Boot, Hibernate, Java 8, Java Multi-threading, Angular, JavaScript, Typescript, Hibernate, Fix, Apache Camel, JUnit, Git, AWS, Docker, Kubernetes Java Full Stack Developer Federal Reserve Bank - New York, NY November 2016 to January 2018 Responsibilities:  • Developed an application for reading Bloomberg NewsFeed data using Java Micro Services, Spring integration, and Spring Boot 2.1, Spring MVC, Spring Cloud, JWT Spring Security OAuth 2.0.  • Migration of legacy code from EJB into more modernized Spring Boot framework using Micro services.  • Worked extensively with Angular 6 on improving the user experience of the existing application. Followed best practices using BDD and TDD approach using Karma and Jasmine  • Improved test automation and test coverage of implementation code using Junit, Mockito, EasyMock and Joco Reports  • Worked on bug fixing of legacy code written in Struts 1.6 and Struts 2  • Wrote backend services using Java 8 Restful APIS using Micro Services.  • Worked extensively with Sybase, writing stored Procedures.  • Worked on writing automation scripts using Jenkins pipeline and unix bash scripting for testing.  • Worked extensively with Docker and Kubernetes - private cloud using Kubernetes supporting Dev, QA and Prod.  • Configured Jenkins Jobs, created CI/CD Pipeline scripting with Jenkins, Maven, Gradle, Docker and AWS.  • Provided support for integration of AWS environments AWS, EC2, S3 data store, AWS OpsWorks, AWS Cloud  • Created complete front-end test framework using Mocha/Chai and Enzym, Jest, nightwatch for unit, integration and automated testing.  • Reverse engineering on existing product to revamp the existing architecture and design to build UI components using React moving from Angular.  • Added router based splitting using react-loadable to reduce load time of application.  • Worked extensively with bash scripting for devops works using unix.  • Setup and built the AWS infrastructure for deployment into different environments.  • Improved test coverage using JUNIT, Mockito, TestNG and Jococo Reports.  • Worked extensively with React, Redux, Webpack, Babel and Typescript and GraphQL to interact with Microservices.  • Development of Cloud deployed applications using Spring Cloud and Spring Security  • Extensively worked with Oracle 12c, Spring Security 5.1  • Converted data from XML to Parquet using Java Spark, Kafka and Oozie Workflows.  • Worked on Azure architecture with Cosmos DB and Microservices.  • Built hive tables on top of this for querying the data in Hadoop.  Environment: Spring-Boot, Hibernate, Java 8, Java Multi-threading, Spark, Kafka, Azure, Hadoop, React, Redux, Babel, Webpack, Mocha/Chai, Nightwatch+Selenium, JavaScript, Typescript, JUnit, Git, svn AWS, Docker, Docker-Compose, Kubernetes, GraphQL etc. Java Full Stack Developer Bunge Limited - New York, NY June 2015 to October 2016 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for the end-to-end development of JEE applications using Java Spring, Java concurrency, Restful Web Services, AngularJS and JMS deployed on IBM Websphere using TDD and Agile practices.  • Worked extensively with AngularJS and jQuery to build UI components  • Worked extensively with Redis.  • Worked extensively with Docker AWS cloud deployment Microservices and Docker.  • Extensively utilized Spring-Boot and Spring MVC and Spring REST  • Worked with Docker and Kubernetes Microservices.  • Developed an Event Scheduler using Quartz that interfaces with an order management system, using JAX-RS Restful Web Services and AngularJS.  • Worked on CI/CD for production servers using AWS.  • Worked with PostgreSQL  • Worked on implementing a Bloomberg Adapter component that aggregates and routes trade messages to the Back office systems.  • Implemented a system that captures the performance metrics of production plants, using AngularJS, Ejb 3.0, Spring, Restful Web Services with RestControllers, Oracle deployed on Websphere Application Server.  • Implemented a Mail Processor that filters emails that are retrieved from IMAP and publishes onto TibcoEMS Queues.  Environment: Core Java, Java Multithreading, Java Spring, Restful Web Services (JAX-RS and RestController), Spring-Boot, Spring JDBCTemplate, EJB 3.0, AngularJS, Javascript, Java JMS, Tibco, IBM Websphere, JUnit, Oracle, AWS, Docker, Kubernetes Java Full Stack Developer Western Asset Management - Pasadena, CA February 2014 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  • Worked for the Fixed Income on the Benchmark Loader application. This application is responsible for loading daily and monthly securities and indexes into the application from different vendors.  • Worked extensively with Struts framework to build UI components.  • Extensively worked with Kubernetes and Docker  • Worked extensively with AngularJS to build UI components  • Worked in a highly Agile development team using TDD and Continuous Integration and deployment.  • Worked extensively on Core Java, low latency side using Java Concurrency on the back-end of the application.  • Primarily utilized Java, Java Spring-Boot, PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Web Services and Perl.  • Responsible for the end-to-end implementation of features for the Benchmark Loader using AngularJS.  • Features included adding and calculating new derived database fields to the database schema and the loading of constituent details for securities.  • Extensively used Jenkins and AWS tools for devops tasks.  • Used JMS to connect to ActiveMQ to retrieve trading messages and performed ETL operations on these messages.  • Worked on the Stats Loader project the data migration, modified database schema and procedures to support the loading of aggregated month end data loads on a daily basis.  • Integrated with restful web services and involved in writing unit and integration tests and deployment scripts.  • Independently responsible for the end-to-end development, testing and deployment to production of releases using Autosys.  Environment: Core Java, Java Multithreading, Java Spring-Boot, PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Sybase, Linux, Web Services, AnthillPro, Autosys Senior Software Engineer Apple - Sunnyvale, CA April 2013 to January 2014 Responsibilities:  • Worked for the Identity Management Directory Services (IDMS) that handles Apple's internal and external applications such as Apple Directory, iCloud, iTunes and iForgot. IDMS manages the access needs of Apple personnel to internal applications by providing Single Sign On Token Verification services for Mac OS X clients.  • Implemented server side components primarily using Core Java, Multithreading, Spring, Hibernate and Web Services.  • Worked extensively with AngularJS to build UI components  • Worked extensively with Spring MVC.  • Extensively worked with Kubernetes and Docker.  • Wrote unit and integration tests using JUnit, TestNG and EasyMock.  • Extensively used Jenkins and AWS tools for devops tasks. Worked with Chef CI/CD.  • Developed infrastructure using Spring-Boot.  • Worked extensively with writing SQL and PL/SQL using Sybase.  • Wrote user interface components for IDMS using AngularJS.  • Heavily involved in DevOps activities such as setting up IDMS components such as Hadoop using Linux, automation scripting with Bash and Java and doing continuous integration with Jenkins.  • Worked with and provided knowledge transfer sessions to offshore teams.    Environment: Core Java, Java Multithreading, Java JEE, Maven, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services, AngularJS, Linux, Sybase, Jenkins, Spring-Boot, Apache Tomcat, Couchbase, AngularJS JUnit, TestNG, EasyMock Senior Software Engineer YieldBook - New York, NY November 2011 to March 2013 Responsibilities:  • Worked on the development of YieldBook's Fixed Income analytical tool using Java, Spring and Hibernate.  • Worked closely with Portfolio Managers for requirement analysis and implementation of business modules.  • Developed UI components using jquery and Bootstrap  • Supported applications written in Struts and Spring MVC  • Developed MBS Pass-Through pricing, trading and allocation systems using Core Java, Java Concurrency and FIX.  • Worked on Yield Book's Structuring Tool for CMOs (pricing of cash flows, generating price/yield reports).  • Used Core Spring for dependency injection of services and Hibernate for the mapping and querying of data.  • Developed engines that serve as the backbone of a Portfolio and Risk (Market, Credit) Analysis.  • Developed MBS Trading Systems providing Trade Entry, Trade Blotter, Risk Blotter and P&L calculations.  • Involved in front-end development for portfolio analysis using AngularJS and jQuery.  • Worked on the back-end data processing systems of Yield book and the generation of yield curves and cash flows.  • Performed stress tests to analyze credit risk of the loan portfolios primarily using JProfiler and JMeter.  • Created and modified SQL and PL/SQL scripts for data conversions and performance improvement using Sybase.  • Day to day production support and troubleshooting of issues related to the trading system, FIX protocol errors.  • Design and coding of communication module with JMS and FIX Protocol for information exchange between FIX Engine (FIX Adaptor) and Institutional Investors (Mutual Funds,Hedge Funds).    Environment: Core Java, Java Spring, AngularJS, jQuery, XML, XSLT, JProfiler, JMeter, SQL, JMS, FIX, Sybase Java Developer Fidessa - New York, NY July 2010 to October 2011 Responsibilities:  • Designed, developed and provided continued support to Portfolio Analytics team (for trading fixed income instruments), and P&L systems serving large and small Wall Street clients using Core Java and Java Spring.  • Worked on Minerva Order Management System (portfolio analysis, order management workflows and post trade).  • Connected with exchange and brokers using FIX.  • Extensively used Hibernate to generate entity classes and schemas for persisting data onto SQL servers.  • Developed presentation tier for the portfolio system using Spring MVC, JSP, Javascript and JSTL.  • Worked extensively with Spring Core, Spring AOP and Spring DAO modules.  • Wrote unit and integration tests using JUnit and Mockito for the post trade part of the Qtrade application.  • Extensively used XSLT for the transformation and enrichment of raw trade messages.  • Designed and implemented SOAP and RESTful services for associated business module integration for P&L reports.  • Day to day production support and troubleshooting of issues working closely with the Quality Assurance team.  Environment: Core Java, Spring, Hibernate, Oracle, Web Services, JUnit, Spring, Spring MVC, XSLT Java Software Developer SystemetriX Design Group - East Brunswick, NJ May 2008 to June 2010 Responsibilities:  • Worked on a post-trade messaging system that aggregates, transforms and routes trading messages.  • Implemented an FX collections matcher allowing traders to classify types of trades using Core Java and Java Multithreading.  • Wrote JUnit tests to validate the functionality of the input/output adaptors, matching collections and aggregation collections  • Wrote XSLT and XPATH transformations to transform trade messages into different data formats  • Used JSF to create UI Components for the Trading application.  Environment: Core Java, Java Multithreading, XML, XSLT, JUnit, JSF, Linux Bash, Confluence, JIRA. Java Software Engineer Bank of America - Charlotte, NC September 2006 to April 2008 Responsibilities:  • Collecting client requirements, system features and functionality and developing system designs.  • Performing analysis and writing program specifications for multiple projects.  • Developing user interfaces, completing programming and producing targeted deliverables.  • Coordinating project requirements, schedules and activities and providing status reports.  • Supporting users by developing documentation and responding to inquiries.  • Performing technical evaluation of products to determine advantages and disadvantages.    Environment: Java Struts, Core Java, Multithreading, AJAX, Javascript, IBM DB2, Websphere, Bash, Linux Skills Eclipse, Ejb, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jax, Jax-ws, Jboss, jquery, Jsf, Angularjs, Mvc, Front-end, Javascript, Node.js, Reactjs, Perl, Scripting, Svn, Jira Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages: Core Java 8, Java Multithreading, Java Spring, SQL, Bash and Perl scripting  DBMS: Sybase, Oracle 11G, SQL Server  Frameworks: Spring, Hibernate, Java Web Services (JAX-WS, JAX-RS), EJB 3.0, JUnit, EasyMock, TestNG  Front-end: ReactJS, AngularJS, jQuery, Node.js, Spring MVC, Javascript, JSF, GWT, Tapestry  Tools and Servers: Redhat EAP, IBM Websphere, Apache Tomcat, Ant, Maven, Apache Camel, JIRA, JBOSS Eclipse, SVN