Sr. Full Stack Developer Sr. Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Full Stack Developer - Windstream Communications AR • Java/J2EE Full Stack Developer with 8 + Years of experience on Enterprise applications, Distributed Application Development, Client/Server Applications, Servlets communication, Internet/Intranet based database applications and developing, testing and implementing application environment.  • Experience in utilizing open-source frameworks such as AngularJS, NodeJS, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, JSF and Jquery.  • Experience in consuming RESTful services using Angular $http, $resource and jQuery to exchange (request / responses) information with databases such as Oracle and MySQL.  • Experience in developing web applications using Java/J2EE, JSP, Servlets, EJB, JDBC, Spring, Struts, JSF, Hibernate, Web Services and XML.  • Expertise in SOA, Web Services (CXF, XML Beans), Apache Camel and XML technologies (XSLT, Xpath).  • Proven software development experience using different methodologies - Agile, Waterfall and TDD.  • Experienced in MEAN stack development (MongoDB, Express.JS, Angular.JS& Node.JS).  • Hands-on experience in relational databases like Oracle 11g, MySQL, MS SQL Server using SQL, PL/SQL programming and NoSQL database Mongo DB.  • Strong experience in deploying J2EE components on JBOSS, ApacheTomcat, BEA WebLogic, and IBM WebSphere application servers.  • Thorough knowledge of Web technologies: XML, WML, SAX/DOM Parser, AJAX, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and JavaScript.  • Strong experience on various java Design Patterns such as Session Façade, DAO, DTO, Delegate, Front Controller, Factory, Business Object, Prototype and Singleton.  • Proficient in integration of EnterprisejavaBeans (EJB) with existing applications and using services provided in distributed applications through Web Services (JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, JAX-RS).  • Extensive development experience on different IDE's like Eclipse, IBM Rational Application Developer, WebSphere Integration Developerand NetBeans.  • Test Driven Programmer with thorough knowledge in Unit testing with JUnit, Mockito and using SoapUI, Postman for Web Service testing, performance testing with JMeter and automated testing with Test Driven Development (TDD) in Extreme Programming model.  • Strong QA Automation experience with Selenium Webdriver, Jbehive and Cucumber.  • Expert in coding using core java concepts like multithreading, collections, serialization, synchronization, exception handling and database connections.  • Experienced in writing complex Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views and triggers with major databases such as Oracle, DB2 and MySQL.  • Experienced in database GUI/IDE Tools using TOAD, DB Visualizer and MySQL Client.  • Strong experience working with version control software like TFS, CVS, ClearCase, Apache SubVersion, GIT and build tools ANT, Maven, Gradle and Jenkins.  • Good working experience in operating systems like UNIX, Solaris and Windows.  • Skilled and experienced in co-coordinating efforts among multiple teams (on-site and off-shore and third parties).  • Experience in handling/executing projects using Agile methodologies (SCRUM) along with Test Driven Development techniques.  • Expertise in object modeling and Object Oriented design methodologies (UML). Experience in creating UML diagrams like Class, Object, Use Case, State and Activity diagrams.  • Strong analytical, interpersonal and communications skills. Demonstrated track record of analyzing situations, implementing in a fast paced environment.  Authorized to work in the US for any employer Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Full Stack Developer Windstream Communications - Little Rock, AR November 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Analyze requirements with team, write High Level design documents, System Use Case, analyze risk factors.  • Used Spring Framework 4.1for the application development.  • Responsible for Web UI development in JavaScript using jQuery, AngularJS, and AJAX  • Developing Intranet Web Application using J2EE architecture, using JSP to design the user interfaces and Hibernate for database connectivity.  • Developed REST Web services to make web service calls simple and easy for the client to access it with the help of standard HTTP URIs.  • Used AngularJS as the development framework to build a single-page application and reusable AngularJs applications.  • Designed Prototype and project layout skeletons using ReactJS, JQuery and CSS/LESS and HTML5.  • Worked on creating Single Page Applications using EmberJs framework  • Extensive experience of designing and developing software applications withjava, J2EE, EJB, JSP, JSF, Servlets, javaBeans, ORM, Web Services, JDBC, XML, CSS, SOAP RPC, REST.  • Strong experience with frontend technologies like HTML5, CSS3, Scripting languages like JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Angular JS, NodeJS, BackboneJS and good knowledge in ReactJS, EmberJS.  • Involved in front end development using Struts, JSP's, JSF and JSTL.  • Used JAXB for marshalling and unmarshalling of work order, billing XML documents, and JAXP for processing.  • Used Spring for bean instantiation, annotations, controllers, request mapping to handle the web service request and response.  • Extensive experience in implementing MEAN Stack (MongoDB, ExpressJS, AngularJS, NodeJS) with RESTful stands.  • Design and developed request and response XML Schema(XSD) documents for web service operations such as Retrieve History.  • Implementing JSP Standard Tag Libraries (JSTL) along with Expression Language (EL).  • Developed web service client using Spring Framework and REST HTTP protocol to get customer credentials and information.  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX and JSON.  • Created Mock-up designs and developed various functionalities with JavaScript and JQuery.  • Creating custom, general use modules and components which extend the elements and modules of core AngularJS.  • Extracted data in UI for different clients using JSON.  • Developed NoSQL based data layer for the application.  • Used JPA, Hibernate persistence API for the database operations to interact with Oracle Database.  • Designed and developed necessary PL/SQL for the database operations as needed.  • Involved in deployment of the application at various environments (Development, QA Testing, Staging, and Production).  • Followed agile methodology during complete SDLC process.  • Participated Agile/Scrum development and deployment teams  • Deployed application on Apache Tomcat server.  • Used GIT for version control and repository  • Involved in writing Unit test cases for unit testing using Junit, JMeter.  • Used Selenium for UI automation.  • Used log4j for logging errors, info, exceptions.  • Involved extensively in Code Reviews, Unit testing and Process Improvements.  Environment: JDK 1.7, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Hibernate 4.0, JAX-RS Web services, JAX-WS Web services, Apache CXF, ReactJS, JQuery 1.10, JQuery UI, AJAX, UML, MS Visio, JSTL, Oracle 11g, WebLogic 10.1, Eclipse 4.2, Junit, XMLSPY, JMeter, SOAP RPC, Log4j, Maven 3.1, PMD, AWS, Node.JS, Bootstrap, AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, Toad, Maven, Hudson, TcpMon, Sun Jersey, Junit 4.1, PowerMock, Selenium, JIRA, Rally, Freemarker, Apache POI, Quartz Scheduler, TcpMon, Selenium, GIT, Bamboo CI, Cucumber Full Stack Java Developer Sunnyvale, CA May 2014 to October 2015 Responsibilities:  • Client Side code were written in ReactJS, JQuery and server Side Code were developed using MVC4.  • Designed the Web application Using Spring MVC (Model View Controller) pattern to make it extensible and flexible.  • Part of an agile team re-developing an existing web application using EmberJS framework front-end and Perl RESTful API backend for data layer.  • Work mostly in the front-end building UI components in Ember, using HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap  • framework for templating and Javascript/EmberJS for client-side functionality  • Front end development utilizing HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript leveraging the Bootstrap framework.  • Analyzed, designed, implemented web based application using java, JPA, JSP, Spring, XML, and SQL.  • Helped in preparing the design documents like process flow, sequence, component diagram.  • Implemented DIM Web service using Spring Framework.  • Used annotations in the complete project development, web services, MVC design.  • Used JMS for consuming pin verification, device connect disconnect messages.  • Used JPA as data persistence API for all the DAO, database operations.  • Involved in performing Cassandra tables with different replication strategies and mappings and writing CQL queries and interacted with the DB using Cassandra template.  • Used Maven project management tool for build and deployment of the application.  • Used Spring quartz timer to load the DIM data base with device battery information on regular intervals of time.  • Developed Spring REST Web services for opening, closing the locker door web service operations.  • Wrote lots of JSP's for maintains and enhancements of the application. Worked on Front End using Servlets, JSP and also backend using Hibernate.  • Developed the presentation and controller logic for the screens related to my user stories using JSPs, HTML, bean and form tag libraries.  • Developed code for user stories and successfully approved it from QA  • Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML  • Established continuous integration (CI) practices and standards for PSCU with Jenkins.  • Spring XML configuration for Camel Integration to messaging XML documents.  • Utilized various JavaScript and JQuery libraries, AJAX for form validation and other interactive features.  • Parse XML documents like Device Connect, Disconnect messages using JAXB.  • Used Microsoft Visio to design the work flows and sequence diagrams, class diagrams.  • Writing unit and integration tests with Mockito framework.  • Designed and implemented the UI components using Ext JS for file storage and maps using Open layers.  • Developed rule modules using Rule Engines, Drools.  • Used Subversion(SVN), ClearCase as source controls.  • Used Agile methodology XP for development using User Stories.  • Used Agile methodologies during the complete project life cycle.  • Involved in Testing in Agile Development Environment, Using TDD and ATDD approach.  • Involved in deployment of the application at various environments (Development, Testing, Staging, and Production).  Environment: JDK 1.6, Eclipse 3.6, Agile, Spring FW 3.1.0, Cache Abstraction, REST Web Services, tomcat 6 , Oracle 11g, Cassandra , Spring MVC, Hibernate, Drools, JPA, Maven, JUnit, Log4j, HTML5, CSS3, javaScript, ReactJS, EmberJS, ExtJs, JSON, JMS, DB Visualizer 7.1, Weblogic, UML, Mockito, JSP, XML, JAXB, Unix, Subversion(SVN), ClearCase, Jenkins. Java/J2EE Developer Sovereign Bank - Boston, MA May 2013 to April 2014 Project: E-Banking  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements from the client business unit by participating in design discussions and implementation feasibility analysis with business analysts at all levels.  • Involved in Object Oriented Design/Analysis and constructing UML Sequence diagrams and Class Diagrams with Microsoft Visio/Rational Rose.  • Worked on SOA to develop RESTful Web service to generate and consume services from different modules. Implemented MVC Framework to make single page applications [SPAs] for responsive services.  • Developed the application using JSF Spring Framework that uses Model View Controller (MVC) architecture with JSP as the view and JQuery validation framework for front end validations.  • Developed the web application using JSF Framework involving features like Expression Language, action listeners, custom components, etc. Created conditional logics in pages using JSF tags and JSTL.  • Used MVC frameworks like Spring MVC along with JSF and Rich faces. Involved in developing front end screens using JSF, JSTL, JQuery, XHTML, HTML5, CSS, AJAX and JavaScript. Also, involved in adding the Internationalization to the existing application.  • Developed JSF managed beans and backing beans and configured JSF navigation in faces-config.xml of JSF MVC framework. Constructed JSF Portal Framework at Presentation Tier and Faces Servlet acts as the Front Controller.  • Experienced in using Twitter Bootstrap Framework responsive design. Developed UI screens and client side scripts incorporating Servlets, JSP, JavaScript and XML DOM parser.  • Used Spring ORM Support for Hibernate to manage Hibernate Resources and consistent exception hierarchy. Integrated Spring DAO for data access using with Hibernate and Spring Validation Framework for Server side validation.  • Used Spring MVC, Spring ORM and Spring Security modules to integrate with MySQL database to implement persistence layer in Hibernate  • Developed Business components using core javaconcepts like Interfaces, Polymorphism, Collections, Serialization etc. Used multithreading concepts to overcome errors in the process of concurrent quote transactions. Deployed the application in clustered environments for load balancing and Server failover conditions.  • Designed stored procedures, triggers and functions in MySQL and DB2 for business critical requirements.  • Developed generic database Connection Pooling with WebLogic Admin server using Spring, SQL query optimization.  • Developed POJO Classes, *.hbm files for Hibernate ORM in the persistence layer using Hibernate frame work in conjunction with Spring AOP functionality.  • Developed objects using JMS API for asynchronous communication and used JMS-MQ bridge as provider to send messages in a secure, reliable and asynchronous method.  • Involved in performing Unit and Integration testing (JUnit). Strictly followed TDD using Agile methodologies.  • Used Apache JMeter for load testing and log4J for debugging with various levels. Used Subversion for version control across common source code used by Developers and deployed the applications on WebLogic Application Server. Utilized Gradle for continuous integration.  Environment: Java 1.6, J2EE, JSP, JSF, JSTL, Servlets, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Security, MySQL, SQL, MySQL, DB2, WebLogic Application Server, JMS, XML, JavaScript, JQuery, SOAP, UML, SVN, JUnit, Log4J, Gradle, TDD, JMeter. Java/J2EE developer CNA - Atlanta, GA October 2011 to April 2013 Project: Online Insurance quotes/Sales app  Responsibilities:  • Implemented Different Design patterns like singleton, factory and J2EE design patterns like Business delegate, session facade, Value object and DAO design patterns.  • Used Spring Framework's IOC Dependency Injection to inject Service Object using Service Locator Design Pattern into Action Classes.  • Used Struts tag libraries in the JSP pages.  • Developed a controller Servlet that dispatches request to appropriate Action Classes.  • Developed the application under J2EE Architecture using spring, Struts, Hibernate, Servlets, Web logic and JSP.  • Used javaPersistence API (JPA) and Hibernate for performing the Database Transactions.  • Used join point and advice Spring AOP modules for cross cutting concerns and IOC for dependency injection.  • Designed extensive additions to existingjavaWeb Application utilizing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) techniques.  • Extensively worked on Spring Bean wiring, Spring DAO and Spring AOP modules.  • Designed Graphical User Interface (GUI) for various WebPages using AJAX, HTML, CSS, JSF, JQuery and JavaScript.  • Implemented SOA architecture with web services using SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and XML.  • Identified and resolved programming issues, Servlets and EJB s performance tuning opportunities  • Used JMS API for asynchronous communication by putting the messages in the Message queue.  • Consumed Web Services (WSDL, SOAP, UDDI) from third party for authorizing payments to/from customers.  • Involved in Developing Web Application with Full Software Development life Cycle (SDLC) from Design to Deployment using agile methodologies.  • Created detail design documents which has the UML Design diagrams, table information, object modeletc which are required for the Developer.  • MVC architecture is implemented by struts framework.  • Exposed Survey API to other applications in DOE using Apache Axis2.  • Page design and development are done using Oracle BPM.  • Involved in implementing JQuery for providing interactive user interfaces.  • Written Test cases using JUnit to validate the application flows in different scenarios in the standalone application  Environment: JDK1.5, JSP, Servlet, EJB, Spring, JavaScript, Hibernate, JQuery, Struts, Design Patterns, HTML, CSS, JMS, XML, Eclipse, Apache, Oracle ECM, Struts, Webservice, SOAP, ILOG, Web2.0, Oracle BPM, JSF, WSDL, Apache CXF, Apache Axis2, Apache Tomcat Server, SOA, PL/SQL, Oracle10g, UML, Weblogic, Junit. Java Developer Session and Entity March 2009 to September 2011 Responsibilities:  • Used the light weight container of the Spring MVC Frame work to provide architectural flexibility for inversion of controller (IOC).  • Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) phases such as Requirement Analysis, Design and Implementation of the project.  • Used Spring Framework for dependency injection.  • Implemented and deployed several EJB (Session and Entity).  • The front end of the project is designed on MVC architecture using struts, Tiles frameworks  • Involved in Configuring tiles-def.xml, web.xml and struts-config.xml according to the strut framework.  • Used LOG4J for error logging at the development box and used ANT for building the deployable EAR/WAR components.  • Used WebSphere Application Server for deploying various components of application  • EJB's were running under the hood of WebSphere container/server.  • Implemented Back office loan services and web applications using Session Façade, Service Locator, Data Access Objects, Business Delegate, MVC, Front Controller and Data Transfer Object design patterns.  • Created DB2 SQL Procedures, Functions & Stored Procedures, Nested Tables, Cursors, DB2 Packages, Reports &SQL Functions for Reports.  • Developed the application using RAD model.  • Worked with VSS Version control in order to create virtual library of computer files.  Environment: Java1.5, JSP2.0, Servlets2.4, EJB2.0, Struts1.2, Spring 2.0.3, JDBC3.0, Design patterns, Html, XML, CSS, Log4j, Ant, Web services, RAD6.0, IBM WebSphere server6.1, IBM DB29.0, VSS. Education Bachelor's