AWS DevOps Engineer AWS DevOps Engineer AWS DevOps Engineer Ewing, NJ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience AWS DevOps Engineer Wells Fargo - North Brunswick, NJ August 2018 to May 2019 Responsibilities:  • Maintained Git Workflows for version control  • Developed and maintained automated CI/CD pipelines for code deployment using Jenkins  • Actively managed, improved and monitored cloud infrastructure on AWS. Experienced with AWS CLI commands  • Managed 20+ servers in a distributed and highly available critical infrastructure  • Maintained and optimized the product release pipeline phases: Build and Application Deployment  • Created AWS instances on different environments and created AWS Route53 to route traffic between different regions  • Built solutions from AWS components using Cloud Formation.  • Performed code merges and deployments with DEV and QA teams. Collaborated with Development, QA and other teams to ensure a smooth transition of deliverables through proper release channels  • Provided remote deployment on on-premise servers and AWS instances (EC2)  • Experienced in working with Tracking Tools, JIRA  • Wrote Ansible playbooks to manage Web applications while deploying the necessary changes and monitored the process.  • Experienced with monitoring and management tools like NAGIOS  • Skilled at Software development life cycle (SDLC) and Agile methods (Scrum), and Waterfall methodologies.  • Wrote scripts in Python and Bash to automate various processes, such as: rotating AWS access key, take snapshots of AWS EC2 servers, provide DB read/write/all permissions  • Documented the processes and mentored other team members. DevOps Engineer Walmart - Valley Stream, NY April 2016 to April 2018 Responsibilities:  • Good understanding of Cloud Platforms like AWS. Worked on several POC projects on AWS.  • Designed AWS Cloud Formation Templates to create custom sized VPC, Subnets, Internet Gateway, and NAT to ensure successful deployment of Web Applications.  • Implemented cloud services AWS and Implemented Bash, Perl, Python scripting.  • Worked on GIT (Git Hub) repositories as Distributed Version Control System.  • Installed and configured GIT to implement branching strategy which is suitable for agile development also provided continuous support and maintenance of software builds.  • Responsible for taking the source code and compiling using Maven and package it in its  • distributable format, such as a WAR file.  • Worked on integrating Git into the continuous Integration (CI) environment along with Jenkins Configured the services using modern DevOps tools.  • Refined automation components with scripting and configuration management using Ansible.  • Wrote Ansible playbooks from scratch in YAML. Installing, setting up & Troubleshooting Ansible, created and automated platform environment setup.  • Automated various infrastructure activities like Continuous Deployment, application server setup, stack monitoring using Ansible playbooks.  • Automated the deployment process by writing Shell (bash), Python scripts in Jenkins.  • Installed packages using YUM and Red Hat Package Manager (RPM) on various servers.  • Used Apache Tomcat for deploying the Java Web Applications.  • Experience in Designing, Installing and Implementing Ansible configuration management system and in writing playbooks for Ansible and deploying applications  • Configured and administered Jenkins pipelines for automated builds and responsible for installing Jenkins master and slave nodes.  • Managed major architectural changes from single server large software system to a distributed system with Kubernetes orchestration.  • Configured and maintained Jenkins Master-Slave setup by enabling password less SSH login between server and nodes to manage and distribute the build work load evenly across different nodes.  • Configured central and distributed repository and assisted developers with branching, labeling/naming conventions using Subversion (SVN) and Git source control.  • Worked exclusively on VMware (Ubuntu 16.04) virtual environment.  • Worked closely with DBA Teams to adjust kernel parameters as per requirements.  • Designed and created multiple deployment strategies using CI/CD Pipelines using Jenkins. Installed multiple plugins to Jenkins, Configured Proxy to get auto updates  • Configured SSH, SMTP, Build Tools, and Source Control repositories in Jenkins.  • Created Pre-commit hooks in shell/bash for authentication with JIRA-Pattern Id while committing codes, limiting file size code and file type and restricting development team to check-in while code commit and resolved update, merge and password authentication issues in JIRA.  Environment: AWS, CloudFormation, VPC, Subnets, Nat, Bash, Perl, Python Scripting, git, maven, Docker, Kubernetes, Jenkins, ansible, yum, Redhat Package manager, Apache Tomcat, SVN, GIT Source Control, VMware (Ubuntu), SMTP, Shell, Jira DevOps Engineer Focusone Pvt. Ltd - Kathmandu, NP November 2015 to March 2016 Responsibilities:  • Design and develop continuous deployment pipeline, integrating Test-Kitchen, Vagrant, Git , Jenkins and Chef across geographically separated hosting zones in AWS, Azure and Google compute.  • Developed automation and deployment utilities using Ruby, Bash, Powershell, Python and Rundeck.  • Designed and developed automated deployment and scaling processes based on Vagrant and Chef for a wide range of server types and application tiers, including Elasticsearch, and Zend PHP and IIS Clusters.  • Wrote custom monitoring and integrated monitoring methods into deployment processes to develop self-healing solutions.  • Created automation and deployment templates for relational and nosql databases (standalone and RDS), including MSSQL, Mysql, MongoDB, Redis and Neo4j. Java Developer Tekvortex Pvt. Ltd - Kathmandu, NP June 2015 to November 2015 Nepal    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Object analysis, design and documentation (OOAD) of the application model using UML.  • Involved in development of the application using Spring Web MVC and other components of the Spring Framework, the controller being Spring Core (Dispatcher Servlet). Also, implemented Dependency Injection using the Spring framework  • Designed and developed interactive static HTML screens as screen level prototype, JavaScript for client-side validation and used Cascading Style Sheet (CSS).  • Developed JSP custom tags and used JSTL for reusability.  • Used Spring Web component for support of web utilities.  • Created the Application using ReactJS and NodeJS libraries NPM, to generate desired view root the URL's properly.  • Used AJAX to support dynamic page element rendering to enhance user experience.  • Involved in component development and used design patterns such as Singleton, Factory and Data Access Object (DAO) in the implementation of the application. Used Spring Context for EJB Support and Spring DAO for enhanced JDBC and DAO support.  • Used Spring ORM component for Hibernate support for manipulating data for Oracle.  • Involved in creating the Hibernate POJO Objects and mapped using Hibernate Annotations.  • Used Hibernate, object/relational-mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with SQL-based schema.  • Wrote service methods and SQL queries, PL/SQL to interact with the Oracle DBMS.  • Used Eclipse IDE for development, configured and deployed the application on to WebSphere using Maven, version control by SVN and tested using JUnit.  • Involved in writing the code using Multi-threading and extensively used Collections during the development.  • Involved in the configuration management using SVN and Jenkins.  • Developed various test cases and performed unit testing using JUnit. Education B.E. in Electronics and Computer Engineering Tribhuvan University - Kathmandu, NP 2015 Skills AWS, Devops, Linux, Jenkins, Puppet