Stack Developer Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Stack Developer - MEAN Orlando, FL • 10+ years of extensive experience in IT Ecosystem, with experience in developing modern web applications using JavaScript and Java languages and related frameworks.  • Expertise in developing end to end applications using MEAN (MongoDB, Express JS, Angular, Node JS) stack and MERN(MongoDB, Express JS, React JS, Node JS).  • Expertise in using React.js/Redux to build User Interface, strong knowledge of state store, middleware, action creator, reducer and container.  • Hands-on experience in using Angular 1.x/2/4 to build Single Page Application and solid understanding of custom directive, factory, service, component and routing.  • Experience in developing mobile applications using IONIC 2/3 with Angular 2/4 to deliver hybrid iOS and Android Applications.  • Good exposure to domains including Financial, Healthcare and E-Commerce.  • Expertise level of understanding in NoSQL database and storage using Elasticsearch, Dynamoetc.  • Proven Front-End experience in developing UI’s using jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, SASS, LESS, AJAX, JSON, XML, React JS, Angular and Ember.JS.  • Comfortable with ES6 module loaders, JSPM, Systems  • Expertise in using Grid Controls, jQuery and DOM manipulations, worked with CSS preprocessor LESS/SASS to improve maintainability of CSS.  • Experience in using SASS for keeping things organized and to create style sheets faster.  • Hands-on experience in building data visualization with D3.js, Highcharts and Angular Fusion Chart.  • Experience in dealing with wireframe tools – Balsamiq, Axure.  • Solid Experience in creating RESTAPI by the make use of Loopback and Swaggeron top of Node JS.  • Experience in integrating loopback with Express JS.  • Proficient in developing RESTful Web Services, SOAP Web services.  • Hands on experience in connecting to MongoDB using Strong loop.  • Hands on experience in writing Service classes using JavaScript and Typescript components.  • Experience in performing CRUD operations and Data Migrations in the Mongo Database.  • Expertise in implementing the MVC architecture in backend applications using Node JS along with Express JS.  • Hands on experience in developing Authentication services involved inregistration using OAuth and JWT.  • Deep understanding with advanced JavaScript concepts, such as Closure, Scope Chain, Promise and Observables.  • Knowledge of Object Oriented Programming with C#, functional programming and have strong knowledge of design patterns, such as SOLID principles, Singleton, factory, DI.  • Elegant experience in installing Node packages using NPM.  • Hands on Experience inImplementing Advanced Object-Oriented JavaScript concepts such as Prototypes, Closure, and Class Structures.  • Experienced with module bundler / task runner such as Webpack, Babel.  • Hands on experience in using ECMASCRIPT(ES6/ES2015, ES7).  • Worked and learned a great deal from Amazon Web Services (AWS) Cloud services like EC2, S3.  • Designed, configured and deployed Amazon Web Services (AWS) for a multitude of applications using the AWS stack (EC2, S3, Cloud Watch).  • Hands on experience in developing applications by using JAVA/J2EE.  • Implemented JavaMultithreaded programming to develop multithreaded modules and applications.  • Extensively worked on core java concepts like Inheritance, Abstraction, Encapsulation, Polymorphism, Exception handling, and Collections Framework.  • Experience in Unit Testing, Integration Testing and in preparing test cases by using Mocha,Karma and Jasmine.   • Experience in implementing Responsive Web Design (RWD) using Bootstrap.   • Extensive experience in using IDE's like WebStorm, Visual Studio Code, Eclipse, Atom, Adobe Dreamweaver, Eclipse etc.   • Hands on experience with Photoshop, Illustrator, Adobe-flash, MS Visual Studio.   • Expertise level knowledge in entire software development lifecycle (SDLC) process from business analysis to development, testing, deployment, documenting, maintaining and user training, experience on Agile and Scrum design methodologies.   • Extensive use of Grunt and Gulp as a build tool for projects.  • Knowledge of CentOS, Ubuntu operating systems and environments.  • Experience in Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Deployment (CD) using Jenkins and Ansible.  • Hands on experience with Tools & Utilities: GIT, Jenkins, Augury and Forum Sentry tool for Web Service gate way Experience in designing and building public facing Websites. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Stack Developer MEAN October 2016 to Present Description: Anthem is working to transform health care with trusted and caring solutions and the project is a web-based application mainly used by the Administrative Department of Anthem. The application is developed to assign health care programs to employees, add new employees, view employee dependents, and all other related information. Each employee is assigned to a health care program and the User interface gives more flexibility to add new employees and assign programs.  Responsibilities:  • Implemented the web application using MEAN Stack technologies (MongoDB, Express, Angular 2/4, Node.js) along with HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap and other web technologies.  • Designed the front-end applications and user interactive web pages using web technologies like Angular 2/4.  • Developed multiple POCs to create an interface between Backend to Frontend by using MongoDB, Express JS, Angular 2/4 and Node.js.  • Performed CRUD operations and Data Migrations in the Mongo Database.  • Worked extensively on closure concepts to grant access to access to the inner functions.  • Worked closely with business system analysts understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules been built.  • Extensive use of Grunt and Gulp as a build tool for minifying the code in JavaScript.  • Worked in consuming the RESTFUL web services by using CRUD Services for effective use of Web services.  • Coded in Angular 2/4 MVC framework to build the Web application for the internal use of the organization.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using jQuery Drag and Drop, Auto Complete, JSON, Angular 2/4, JavaScript and Bootstrap.  • Used Yeoman, BOWER and NPM for scaffolding the Angular 2/4 Application.  • Developed various customized views and templates using Handlebars, JavaScript, HTML.  • Made enhancements to existing CSS and DIV tags, made upgrades using Twitter Bootstrap model.  • Worked on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements etc.  • Created Responsive Web Design using Bootstrap for Media queries to support various kinds of devices.  • Developed dynamic web pages using HTML5, CSS3, SASS, Angular 2/4, Bootstrap, LESS and Sublime Text Editor.  • Developed mobile applications using IONIC 2 with Angular 2/4 to deliver hybrid iOS and Android Applications  • Developed responsive web pages using bootstrap and CSS3 media queries.  • Worked withSASS to enable and use things like variables, nested rules and inline imports.  • Participated in developing Data driven templates and Model driven templates for client-side presentation and /data validation with test driven development using Jasmine, Karma.  • Implemented Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery (CI & CD) Process stack using AWS, GITHUB/GIT.  • Built S3 buckets and managed policies for S3 buckets and used S3 bucket and glacier for storage and backup on Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Maintained the code base by frequent updates to the code repository using GitHub.  • Worked on cross browser compatibility issues and fixed the bugs.  Environment:  Angular 2/4, Ionic2, Node JS, MongoDB, Express JS, JavaScript, ES6, TypeScript, Python 2.7, Django 1.8, jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JSON, AJAX, Loopback, Swagger, Bootstrap, Gulp, Mocha, karma, Git, slack, JIRA Stack Developer MEAN July 2014 to September 2016 Responsibilities:  • Implemented various screens for front end using React.js and used various components fromNPM and React library.  • Used React-Router to turn application into SPA.  • Involved in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router and Flux concept.  • Worked on Lifecycle Methods, State, Props, and Events to create interactive and stateful React Components achieved routing using react-router.  • Used React Axios to call Web APIs to fetch data from backend and update the states in the store of Redux.  • Implemented the drag and drop functionality using React-Draggable.  • Used React-Autocomplete for creating google maps location search on the webpage.  • Utilized Kendo UI components and frameworks to work on Grid, Layout and Drag and Drops.  • Worked on React JS Virtual DOM and React views, rendering using components which contains  additional components called custom HTML tags.  • Used React JS for templating and faster compilation and developing reusable components.  • Enhanced legacy application by building new components in Angular 2 and typescript.  • Implemented Angular 2 components, directives, pipes and injectables.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using component  based architecture provided by Angular 2.  • Worked the backend by using Nodejs, Hapi JS, and MongoDB.  • Extensively used Git for version controlling and regularly pushed the code to GitHub.  • Worked on Node JS frameworks like swagger for generating Rest API's.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, jQuery and JavaScript  • Prototyping new features and ideas - Photoshop, HTML5, CSS3 and D3.js, Highcharts.  • We used GIT for our Continuous Integration solution we then changed over to Git with Jenkins.  • Interacted with Testing Team, Scrum Masters and Business Analysts for Fixing of Issues.  Environment:  React.js, Redux, Node.js, Express.js, Hapi JS, JavaScript ES6, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, microservices, MySQL, ORM, Sequel Pro, Mocha, Chai, Test Cases, git, GitHub, Docker, Splunk, Jira, Jenkins, Agile, TDD, Slack JavaScript Developer Johnson & Johnson - Raritan, NJ November 2013 to June 2014 Description: Cognizant enables global enterprises to make their current operations as efficient and cost-effective as possible and to invest in innovation to unleash new potential across their organizations. The Project is all about conceptualizing and building 2 internal projects, one where the marketing research team could login and conduct analysis and communicate the same to all other departments, and the other to act as an employee forum portal.  Responsibilities:  • Defined new validations through React JS for the form field validation implemented through HTML5.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Restful Web Services using AJAX, JSON.  • Deal with advanced level of jQuery, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS in the validation frameworks for the application.  • Developed large-scale, real-time, live blogging server and UI using React and I have experiences with React JS for porting a restful service written in Python.  • Built web pages that are more user-interactive using AJAX, JavaScript, and React JS.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Restful Web Services using AJAX, JSON.  • Extensive use of Gulp.js as a build tool in projects for minifying the JavaScript Code.  • Extensively used bower to pull the system level dependencies.  • Designed various Service and factories by using React JS.  • Involved with team on developing internal web application using HTML 5 templates.  • Identifying and fixing the browser/performance related issues in the application.  • Designed models to handle post, get request methods/operations while interacting with the database PostgreSQL  • Designed the frontend applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML/ HTML5, XHTML, and CSS3.  • Wrote application level code to perform client-side validation using jQuery and JavaScript.  • Involved in Agile methodology, weekly Sprints, and daily Scrums to discuss the development of the application with JIRA Task Board.  Environment:  React JS, Express.JS, Node.JS, Python, J2EE, Spring, Servlets,PostgreSQL, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Java, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, UNIX, and Bootstrap, Git, JIRA, Gulp, slack, Jenkins, GitHub, Docker. UI Developer Alonza Technologies April 2010 to November 2013 Description: Alonza Infrastructure Services Division offers a dependable framework of forefront expertise. Myself dealt with three internal projects on Java and JavaScript related to IT services and Enterprise application services where our primary focuson provenverification methodologies and processing the user requests.  Responsibilities:  • Developing modern, clean, and complex front ends by using HTML, CSS and Bootstrap.  • Involved in requirements analysis, understand the requirements of each technical part.  • Build reusable code and libraries for future use in JavaScript for built applications and development.  • Work on a project team to develop custom software for our small to medium-sized business customers.  • Participate in full development lifecycle - given system requirements, develop end-to-end solutions, including: development, testing, deployment and support.  • Develop responsive front-end interfaces, using modern web standards with a focus on usability and access from multiple platforms and devices.  • Developed and deployed on the Apache Tomcat server.  • Worked on Eclipse IDE to write the code and integrate the application.  • Developed functions and stored procedures using PL/SQL.  • Specifying the data flow using JSON and DTD.  • Designed the user-interface and the checking validations using JavaScript  • Given target dates and scope of work, ability to manage your workload to meet the goals provided.  • Debugging & Troubleshooting.  • Optimize and Improve existing systems through ongoing enhancement projects.  • Develop new website features for customer requirement purpose.  • Utilize Waterfall technology to implement software development.  • Create and maintain documentation of UI code or technical topics/processes.  Environment:  JavaScript, jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, Bootstrap, MySQL, JSON,MVC, ASP.NET, Entity Framework, Git, Jenkins, GitHub, Agile, Apache Tomcat. Java Developer Bell Solutions May 2007 to April 2010 Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in defining and designing the tiers of the applications and implementation with core Java and J2EE best design practices.  • Used Core Java concepts like Collections, Exception Handling, Serialization, Multi-Threading, Concurrency.  • Involved in developing Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams and process flow diagrams for the modules using UML.  • Used Struts framework to define Controller, action mappings, forms and View pages.  • Involved in implementation of application using conventional design practices (SOA-Service Oriented Architecture, MVC-Model View Controller).  • Implemented Spring MVC Architecture, Servlet targeting request module and flow of control generating JSP in Presentation layer.  • Created Graphical User Interfaces(GUI) using JSP and HTML.  • Development of database interaction code to JDBC API making extensive use of SQL Query Statements and Prepared Statement.  • Used Java Message Services(JMS) to build a message communication.  • Used Java Concurrency and Multi-Threading for multi-tasking and Developed REST Web Service with Spring MVC.  • Managed project by using Maven.  • Used Jenkins to build and deploy in local environment.  • Used Junit to test the applications.  Environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, Spring, Hibernate, HTML, CSS,JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, AJAX, JUNIT, JIRA, JAXB, XML, WSDL, SOAP, Log4j, Maven, GitHub, Jenkins, MySQL, JMS, PL/SQL,DAO, JDBC, Apache Tomcat Server. Skills VISUAL STUDIO, C#, Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, JSON, SVN, VISIO, XML, DOJO, HTML5, KNOCKOUT, SASS, ECLIPSE, jQuery, AJAX, CSS, DREAMWEAVER, IIS