Sr. Java/AWS Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span>/AWS <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java/AWS Developer - Leidos Washington, DC • Over 11+ years of extensive experience in requirement gathering, design, development, testing and deployment of projects on Core Java and J2EE  • Experience working on scalable environment using Agile/SCRUM methodologies.  • Excellent experience in GitHub and Tortoise SVN for source code management and for version control.  • Experience working on JIRA which is managing project requirements and tasks, tracking issues.  • Experience working on Source Tree, Stash, Confluence and Bamboo applications powered by Atlassian.  • Designed and developed application using Core Java, J2EE (JSP, Servlets), spring and Oracle.  • Handled operations and maintenance support for AWS cloud resources which includes launching, maintaining and troubleshooting EC2 instances, S3 buckets, Virtual Private Clouds (VPC), Elastic Load Balancers (ELB) and Relational Database Services (RDS).  • Experience in creating JSON scripts for Cloud Formation based on requirements and launch stacks.  • Created AWS Security Groups for deploying and configuring AWS EC2 instances.  • Developed single page applications using Angular 2, Angular 4, typescript, web pack and grunt.  • Over 10+ years of experience in design and development of n-tier distributed transactional components and applications using Java, Spring Framework, Web Services and J2EE standards.  • Experience with an in-depth level of understanding in the strategy and practical implementation of AWS Cloud-Specific technologies including EC2, EBS, S3, VPC, RDS, SES, ELB, EMR, ECS, Cloud Front, Cloud Formation, Elastic Cache, Cloud Watch, RedShift, Lambda, SNS, Dynamo DB  • Experience in AWS Cloud platform and its features which includes EC2, VPC, EBS, AMI, SNS, RDS, EBS, CloudWatch, Cloud Trail, CloudFormation AWS Config, Autoscalling, CloudFront, IAM, S3.  • Extensive knowledge in working with Java, J2EE technologies such as JDBC, Hibernate, Ibatis, MyBatis, Servlets, JSP, JNDI, JSTL, Struts, JSF, Spring, XML, Web Services, SOAP, REST, JQuery, JSON, Oracle, SQL, Rich Faces, JDBC, JNDI and Object-Oriented Programming techniques.  • Extensive development experience on different IDE's like Eclipse, IntelliJ, Weblogic Workshop IDE, Net Beans and RAD.  • Expertise in Scripting technologies like HTML 5, DHTML, JavaScript, CSS 3, XML and XSL/XSLT, AJAX, Angular JS 1.5 / Angular JS 2 and JQuery.  • Have strong experience in RDBMS like Oracle, DB2, PL/SQL, Sybase and SQL.  • Experience in Web Services Technologies like SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  • Extensive experience in implementation of the version control software CVS, SCME, SVN, Perforce, Clear Case and GIT. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java/AWS Developer Leidos - Washington, DC September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Working as a UI Developer, assisting my team in developing two different Web-based applications.  • Extensively involved in front end screens using Java, HTML 5, JavaScript ES6, JQuery, JSON, CSS and Ajax.  • Wrote advanced HTML 5, JavaScript and CSS to deliver cutting-edge user interfaces and components.  • Used Bootstrap front-end framework for faster and easier web development with MySQL database, Node.js as the backend.  • Designed and developed the application using Angular 2 framework along with HTML5, CSS3, Type Script, Java Script, Bootstrap, Node.js, NPM, and Mongo DB.  • Moved existing AngularJS controllers and services to Angular 2 components for more responsive and less dependency. Enhanced legacy application by building new components in Angular 2 and typescript.  • Developed single page applications using Angular 2, Typescript, web pack and grunt.  • Writing controllers that are responsible for transferring control between components, routing and rendering views using Angular 2 framework.  • Developed custom modules like app-routing module, pipes, and models to make the construct of the whole application more concise and understandable and avoid writing duplicated codes.  • Developing custom HTML elements using angular. js 2.0 directives.  • Used AngularJS as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  • Worked with React JS to build bootstrap components for UI web objects. Linked with API data to view render virtual DOM dynamically.  • Create, edit and maintain sites implementing responsive design & themes using front end development frameworks including Bootstrap, flexbox algorithm to make consistent page layout.  • Extensively used Selectors in JQuery for updating content on DOM nodes.  • Wrote code to fetch data from Web services using JQUERY AJAX via JSON response and updating the HTML pages.  • Worked through cross browser compatibility issues with layout and styles for all new CSS that was implemented.  • HTML5 and CSS3 latest tags are used to design the webpages and HTML local storage web applications are used to store data. Styling pages with CSS3.0 and developed JavaScript for user interfaces.  • Used Eclipse IDE for designing, coding and developing applications.  • Implemented JavaScript source code, embedded nested handling logic using JQuery event handlers and call back functions.  • Extensive experience of Object Oriented JavaScript design pattern and JavaScript MVC Patterns Preferably Angular JS and React JS.    Environment: Java, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, Struts, JMS, EJB, DOJO, JavaScript, GUI, Hibernate, HTML, CSS, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, Node.js, XML, Apache, DB2, Spring, Apache CXF, CRUD, SVN, Web services, GWT, Subversion, Maven, UML, Junit, ASP.Net, C/C++, C#. Sr. Java/AWS Developer Kforce Inc - Jersey City, NJ April 2017 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  • Developed the framework for the application using Spring MVC and RESTful web services.  • Used Spring BOOT to create stand-alone spring applications.  • Developed API for using AWS to manage the servers and run the code in the AWS.  • Working on real-time streaming using AWS, working on event driven design using AWS.  • Wrote AWS functions to interact with CloudFormation.  • Design, Develop and Test in improving Mezz from a single Web Service to Large ScaleDeployment in AWS EC2.  • Experienced in supporting data analysis projects using Elastic Map Reduce on the Amazon Web Services (AWS) cloud.  • Worked with various schema for Application, Data Processing and Data warehouse that resides in AWS RDS database (PostGreSql), Dynamo DB.  • Designed, built, and deployed a multitude application utilizing almost all of the AWS stack including S3, RDS, DynamoDB.  • Build OLTP and data as well as self-service BI in MS SQL Server, PostgreSQL and AWS (Amazon) Redshift (PostgreSQL) environments  • Migrate On-premise Datamarts running on on-premise systems to Managed Cloud Services i.e RDS of AWS -Redshift, Postgresql.  • Developed java based datafeed module leveraging Amazon Simple Workflow Service, AWS Elastic Beanstalk, and AWS CloudFormation.  • Worked in AWS Cloud platform and its features which includes EC2, VPC, EBS, AMI, SNS, RDS, EBS, CloudWatch, Cloud Trail, CloudFormation AWS Config, Autoscalling, CloudFront, IAM, S3, and IAM, S3.  • Development of infrastructure automation in AWS (EC2, DynamoDb, Lambda, EBS, RDS, Dynamo, ELB, EIP etc) with AWS CloudFormation  • Maintained the user accounts (IAM), RDS, Route 53, VPC, RDB, Dynamo DB, SES, SQS and SNS services in AWS cloud.  • Used Hibernate Framework for object relational mapping and persistence.  • Used Java 8 Streams, Lamba expressions and Functional Interfaces.  • Have done POC on Spring Boot and Angular 2  • Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, Node.JS, ExtJS, ReactJS, AngularJS, knockout JS, Wire-framing, HTML5  • Providing a responsive, AJAX-driven design using JavaScript libraries such as Angular.Js, Node.js, D3.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap.js and Bootstrap.js  • Experience in AngularJS, Web sockets, JQuery, JSON, JSONP, Bootstrap, HTML, XHTML, Ajax, CSS3, CSS Frameworks, SASS, Jasmine Unit Test Framework.  • Wrote RESTFUL Microservices with Spring Boot framework. Used Maven scripts to build JAR and WAR files. Used Jenkins as the build tool.  • Involved in defect tracking using JIRA. Used JUNIT for testing the application. Involved in NoSQL database design, integration and implementation.  • Developed PL/SQL store procedures for data migration and database upgrade from oracle using TOAD.  • Worked with NoSQL Platforms and Extensive understanding on relational databases versus No-SQL platforms.    Environment: Java 7.0, Spring 4, Hibernate 4.2, Spring batch , Spring quartz , Spring security, Spring Jta , Spring Boot , JPA, Java Scripts, AngularJS, HTML 4.0, CSS, JMS, JAXP (SAX & DOM), WebSphere Application Server 8.5, Eclipse/RAD 8.0, Oracle 11g, SOAP, RUP, Maven, log4j, Junit, XML, Web Services , ILog JRules 5.0, Splunk, GIT. Sr AWS Developer True Source IT, LLC - Saint Paul, MN October 2015 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  • Working as a Node.js developer, Expert knowledge of modern back-end JavaScript (Node.js), front-end JavaScript, Angular 2.0, HTML, & CSS, including libraries and frameworks.  • Worked on Node.js Middleware framework like Express.js and Hapi.js and Yoemon, essentially developed microservices and serve them through middleware. Served any Client side libraries through microservice.  • Worked on NPM packages and published them to nexus repositories, Developed Gulp, grunt task runner or application and involved in to write Unit test cases.  • Essentially working to develop restful Apis and invoke Soap Apis in Express.js and Hapijs, validating Apis with swagger.  • Developed web application using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, Angular2/4/5, NodeJS, AJAX, and JSON.  • Enhanced application performance by Angular 5 Component based development in view of future Angular framework transitions.  • Worked extensively on Angular 4/5 framework and had experience working with Ng-Modules, components, Observables, ng-router, AUTH-guards.  • Working in custom created framework created extensively using JavaScript MVC and writing code that is modular and reusable  • Co-ordinate with Design team to understand the requirements and specifications and provided support in designing using Adobe Photoshop  • Migrating the Old single threaded POS into a Single page web-based application using Angular 4/5 framework as front end and Java as backend.  • Developed single page web application using JavaScript framework Angular and Created multi custom directives by defining Angular 5 directives  • Experience with Angular 5, creating custom directives, decorators, and services to interface with both restful and legacy network services also DOM applications.  • Implemented Angular 5 Controllers to maintain each view data and Implemented Angular Service calls using Angular Factory.  • Made strategies for Authentication, Authorization and log formats for AT&T standard internal components with OAuth and passport.js using secure gateway.  • Make pluggable UI microservice for each platform which should solve the monolithic problem of seed generation and create Docker image and deploy them into kubernates using Angular.js 2.0.  • Worked with Docker for containing microservices and write docker file, Jenkins for Automated Integration and deployment process and kubernates for deploying pods. And maintaining each pod on kubernates dashboard and load balancing.  • Working on single client platform supported by around 9 other services, an internal API to connect them, and an external API for partners. It allows us to keep codebases smaller, optimize more specifically, and explore new technologies with isolation.  • Developing Dockerfile for different end points and validate them through the docker-central to run the Jenkins job with given parameter and deploy job to the kubernates.  • Working on AT&T plugin components like Authentication and Authorization, Cookie based Authentication and login, developed logging mechanism to dashboard to keep all logs for application.  • Integration with CICD (Continuous integration and continuous Deployment) Process for all microservices and serve them to external innovations.  • Support Client side liberaries like angular and database connection like mysql, Casandra, mongoDB and postgres through the Node base microservice and have them connected with Api calls.  • Created Polymer.js , ES6 application to make UI by Dragging and Dropping the web components, where each component contains different microservice and make UI after combine all microservice together. Developed ES6 web components for the multiple uses in the UI.    Environment: Java 8.0, Spring 4, Hibernate 4.2, Spring batch , Spring quartz , Spring security, Spring Boot , JPA, JavaScript, AngularJS, HTML 4.0, CSS, WebSphere Application Server 8.5, Eclipse/RAD 8.0, Oracle 11g, Maven, log4j, Junit, XML, Web Services , Kafka, IBM MQ, Hive, HDFS, Splunk, BITBUCKET. Sr AWS Developer Britech Group, Inc - San Diego, CA April 2014 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for analysis, design, development and integration of backend components using J2EE technologies such as Spring and Spring JDBC.  • Create new interfaces using java, maven/ant, spring mvc / struts, or hibernate based on provided requirements XSD/DDF's  • Removed DB2 dependency replaced with Mongo DB.  • Developed store procedures, Triggers and functions in Oracle to process the trades using PL/SQL and mapped it to Hibernate Configuration File and also established data integrity among all tables  • Wrote python scripts for deployments onto AWS and Continuous Integration provisioning.  • Management of SaaS product development activities using variety of services such as Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Developed supporting data analysis projects using Elastic Map Reduce on the Amazon Web Services (AWS) cloud.  • Developed project to interface with extensive database via cloud-based API utilizing Github, AWS/RDS servers, and continuous integration with Codeship.  • Used scripting languages like Python, Ruby, Perl, Bash and configuration management tools Chef, Puppet, and CF Engine and Web Service like AWS.  • Technology implemented to leverage MicroServices, the power of AWS, Ansible and Docker to reduce development cycles by 45%.  • Used AWS created and queried data using DynamoDB and created a Web interface allowing users to dynamically  • Worked on AWS Cloud platform and its features which includes EC2, VPC, EBS, AMI, SNS, RDS, EBS, Cloud Watch, Cloud Trail, Cloud Formation AWS Config, Auto scaling, CloudFront, IAM and DynamoDB  • Implemented and maintained Chef Configuration management spanning several environments in VMware and the AWS cloud.  • Create cloud formation template in json format and uses AWS SDK to call AWS Cloud formation service to create AWS resources like ELB, EC2 instance, Route53, Auto scaling group.  • Experience in Build/Release/Deployment/Operations (DevOps) / AWS Cloud  • Worked in Amazon Web Services including migrating infrastructure to AWS cloud and maintenance of production web infrastructure.  • Responsible for writing Spring Configuration XML file that contains declarations and another dependent object declaration.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries and Java Script to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Developed web service for web store components using Restful API.  • Used XML, XSD and JSON messages for Data transfer. Used JAXB API and DOM for XML parsing messages.  • Used Apache Kafka in cluster as messaging system between the APIs and Microservices.  • Used Jenkins build for building and deploying of the applications and implemented force builds when the build fails.  • Designed User Interface using HTML, CSS, Boot Strap, JavaScript, Angular JS, XML, VXML, and Java Server Faces (JSF).  • Deploy and monitor scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS) & configuration management using chef.  • Experienced in Application Test case development and creation execution using Selenium, Cucumber,  • Used Ant for developing build scripts and deploying the application.    Environment:JavaScript, DOJO, HTML, CSS, XML, XSLT, AJAX, JSP, JSON, Jquery, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, Node.js, React.js, ES6, TypeScript, Polymer.js, Docker, kubernates, Npm, Gulp, Grunt, Bower, Core Java, UNIX, Linux, Sybase, JDBC, Oracle, SQL, MySql, MsSql, Toad, CRUD, Eclipse, REST, Apache CXF, Clear Case, Tomcat, JUnit, JIRA, Maven, iText, Weblogic, SVN, UML, Agile. Sr. Java Developer Eliassen Group - Baltimore, MD December 2012 to March 2014 Responsibilities:  • Deployed this application which uses J2EE architecture model and Struts Framework first on Weblogic and helped in migrating to JBoss Application server.  • Worked in Java, J2EE, XSL, XML, Oracle, DB2, Struts, spring, Hibernate, REST Web services, Model driven architecture and software configuration management tools.  • Developed Application based on J2EE using Hibernate, Spring, JSF frameworks and SOAP/REST web services, Web Sphere Integration Developer (WID) Tool to develop WPS components.  • Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection and integrated with the EJB using annotations.  • Responsible for analysis, design, development and integration of UI components with backend using J2EE technologies such as Servlets, Java Beans and JSP.  • Used iBATIS framework with Spring framework for data persistence and transaction management.  • Used Spring for cross cutting concerns and IOC for dependency injection.  • Developed the application using Struts Framework that leverages classical Model View Controller (MVC) architecture  • Used JSF messages for handling the error messages for the applications  • Used EJB,JMS, Java Script in enhancement of the product  • Designed and implemented database structure in MySQL Server  • Designed the database and coding of SQL, PL/SQL, Triggers and Views using IBM DB2.  • Developed web services using Apache Axis2 in Java and SOAP/WSDL on SOA architecture.  • Worked Extensively on Spring IOC, Spring DAO framework, Spring Web services and integrated spring with Struts framework  • Used Netbeans for development and WebLogic Application Server for deploying the web application.  • Used JBoss application server to deploy application into Production environment.  • Created and Implemented Keyword Driven Framework using Selenium.  • Designed Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams and Object Diagrams to model the detail design of the application using UML.  • Developed Servlets, JSP, and Java classes for implementing business logic  • Used Maven to build and generate code analysis reports.  • Used XML parser APIs such as JAXP and JAXB in the web service's request response data marshalling as well as unmarshalling process.  • Developed Swing for user interaction and data presentation.  • Designed and developed pricing region services using Oracle ADF, JSF and Oracle Spatial.  • Design and development of the exception management workflow using Oracle BPM.  • Worked with IBM MQ Series and Websphere Message Broker on various platforms like Sun Solaris, AIX, and Windows.  • Built code using IDE IntelliJ and deploy it using Apache Tomcat.  • Deployed the applications in Linux servers using deployment scripts.  • Designed and developed programs in C++ to integrate as per the users requirements.  • Created/translated PL/I programming into SAS, which were used as part of the process used to standardize military personnel records  • Created PL/SQL stored procedures for new Oracle Forms and Reports development    Environment: Servlets 2.5, JSP 2.1, spring, JDBC, JavaScript, HTML, Oracle, PL/SQL, SVN, Hibernate 3.0 and Weblogic 7.0. Java Developer RapidIT, Inc - New York, NY March 2010 to November 2012 Responsibilities:  • Integrated Hibernate ORM with Spring-Hibernate framework to facilitate DML and DQL queries and represent object-database mapping.  • Involved in transforming the Use Cases into Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and State diagrams.  • Involved in development of Web Services, creation of WSDL and schemas.  • Extensively participated on working with Spring framework. Involved in writing JSP and Servlets.  • Involved in development of Web Services, were developed to receive client requests.  • Implemented Spring JDBC template, Spring Exception Strategy and AOP.  • Involved in setting up WebSphere Application server and using Ant tool to build the application and deploy the application in WebSphere Application server.  • Worked with the creation of Store Procedures. Involved in writing SQL queries, Stored Procedures to accomplish complex functionalities.  • Part of team creating quality working J2EE code to design, schedule, and cost to implement use cases.  • Developed Reusable classes in the middleware using Hibernate.  • Involved in writing lots of JSP for maintains and enhancements of the application. Worked on Front End using Servlets and also backend using EJB and Hibernate.  • Worked on Presentation Layer using Struts Tiles, JSPs and Servlets.  • Created quality working J2EE code to design, schedule, and cost to implement use cases.  • Setting of DB2 build settings in RAD application development server.  • Involved in writing the database integration code using Hibernate.  • Creation of managed server and JDBC connections.  • Worked on the application using Rational Application Developer. Designed & Developed Application flow UML diagrams of the application using Rational Rose.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, XML, Spring 3.x, Hibernate, Web Services, SOAP, Restful, WSDL, Jersey, Jackson,Axis, SOAP UI, Eclipse, Oracle11, TOAD, JUNIT, SQL, PL/SQL, JSTL, Spring Tags,HTML, CSS, ANT, Maven, Jenkin, UML, TOAD, WebLogic, Linux. Software Developer MERCK & CO - Kenilworth, NJ June 2008 to February 2010 Responsibilities:  • Worked with Spring Batch Used Spring ORM module to integrate with Hibernate.  • Developed the web pages using JSP, CSS and HTML  • Developed the RTM interface module to map the requirements to the test-case and Test design modules  • Used several J2EE Design Patterns (Session Façade, Aggregate Entity) for the Middle Tier development.  • Developed EJBS (Session and Message-Driven Beans) in (RAD) for handling business processing, database access and asynchronous messaging.  • Made extensive use of Java Naming and Directory Interface (JNDI) for looking up enterprise beans.  • Developed Message-Driven beans in collaboration with Java Messaging Service (JMS).  • Involved in writing JSP/HTML/JavaScript and Servlets to generate dynamic web pages and web content.  • Wrote various stored procedures in PL/SQL and JDBC routines to update tables.  • Wrote various SQL queries for data retrieval using JDBC.  • Involved in building and parsing XML documents using SAX parser.  • Exposed business logic as a web service and developed WSDL files for describing these web services.  • Extensively used SOAP formatted messages for communication between web services.  • Developed the application on IBM WebSphere Application Server.  • Developed the plug-in interfaces for the TMS features (TEE, Requirements, Version Control)  • Developed Form Beans, which are used to store data when the user submits the HTML form  • Coded various Java beans to implement the business logic  • Development of GUI using AWT  • Involved in creating the tables using SQL and connectivity is done by JDBC  • Involved in generating the reports regarding the marks they secured in the online test once they press the submit button in the test using HTML and JSP.  • Apache Tomcat is used as an Application Servthe Application    Environment: Java, J2EE, Struts, JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, Hibernate, SOAP, WebLogic, Log4j, Maven, CVS, PL/SQL, Oracle, Windows. Education Bachelor's Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Jaxb, Jboss, Jdk, Jndi, Jsp, Jstl, Wsad, C++, Design patterns, Html, Xml, Xslt, Ajax, Tomcat, Web services, Weblogic, Websphere