Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - Varadero Express New York, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer Varadero Express - Miami, FL September 2015 to Present Project: Web Telecommunication System  Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Agile software development lifecycle which involves designing, coding, testing, debugging and support.  ? Worked on AngularJS directives and controllers for designing the web application and used its two way data binding to achieve the feedback functionality from the user.  ? Used AngularJS filters for searching, sorting, pagination and used custom filters.  ? Created AngularJS Routing to connect different controller to the view which allows the single-page application.  ? Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON, XML and JQuery.  ? Developed internal services using Java and Node.Js.  ? Worked with HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript for developing user interface.  ? Created optimized graphic websites and application interfaces using HTML5, CSS3 and jQuery UI framework.  ? Built data visualizations to monitor file server load, web server speeds, data processing and more using D3 js, Backbone.js.  ? Used Bootstrap and Angular 2 UI Bootstrap for creating rich, Responsive UI Screens for varying screen sizes and devices.  ? Created proof-of- concept using responsive web design, Node.js, modernizer js, HTML5 and CSS3.  ? Implemented RESTful services and data services on Node.js and Express.  ? Worked with QA team on daily basis in fixing the reported bugs and checking cross platform compatibility.  ? Worked on re-factoring existing application code (built in AngularJS)  ? Used GIT for version repository maintenance.  ? Involved in Analysis, design and coding on Java and J2EE Environment.  ? Developed Java utility programs to retrieve data from Oracle.  ? Involved in the database design and prepared detail level design document.  ? Used Maven as build tool and Jenkins for continuous integration development.  ? Unit tested complex methods and objects using Jasmine.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, Backbone.js, Node.js, Java, Bootstrap, Jasmine, Jenkins, IntelliJ IDEA and Agile/Scrum. Java/J2EE/UI Developer Capital One - Fairfax, VA June 2013 to May 2015 Description: Capital One is a diversified bank that offers a broad array of financial products and services to consumers, small businesses and commercial clients. Involved in Financial Invest project which is developed to register, track and maintain the customer investment. Main focus on fixed income, Asset management and mutual funds. Generate volumes of management data to provide a service oriented interface, offering a few simplified and actionable recommendations or insights.    Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Participated in coding, GUI design and testing.  ? Validation of the registered users using JSP-Servlets and JDBC with the details available in the Database.  ? Created documentation of the application.  ? Developed Servlets and JSP for Data retrieval implementation with User Interface.  ? Developed Container Managed Entity and Session beans.  ? Developed web services in Java and Experienced with Service Oriented Architecture Protocol, WSDL.  ? Applied design patterns including MVC Pattern, Façade Pattern, Abstract Factory Pattern, DAO Pattern and Singleton.  ? Implemented the Project structure based on Spring MVC pattern using spring boot.  ? Wrote internal and external API services using Node.Js modules.  ? Configured JDBC with SQL/PLSQL for database connectivity.  ? Developed required Web pages using HTML.  ? Used Angular.js for developing single page web applications.  ? Build Rest web service by building Node.JS Server in the back-end to handle requests sent from the front-end JQuery Ajax calls  ? Implemented EJB Components for modules related to Pharmacy, Purchasing, and General and Biomedical equipment.  ? Involved in different J2EE Design patterns like Session Façade, Service Locator, and Business Delegate.  ? Coded Server pages using JSP, Servlets, Struts by following MVC architecture.  ? Developed Action Classes and Action Forms beans.  ? Worked with the team in the development of the Application front-end using JSP, Struts with the help of HTML.  ? Used JSON for message transformation.  ? Involved in the Integration performance and unit testing of the project.  ? Involved in the Performance related issues like open connections and open cursors.  Environment: Web Sphere 6.0, SQL, JDBC, Java, EJB, Servlets, spring, JSP, HTML, Hibernate, Spring boot, JavaScript, JUnit, Ant, Oracle 10g and Windows XP. JAVA / J2EE Developer Wisconsin Department of Transportation - Madison, WI December 2011 to March 2013 Description:The Wisconsin Department of Transportation (WisDOT) is a governmental agency of the U.S. state of Wisconsin responsible for planning, building and maintaining the state's highways. It is also responsible for planning transportation in the state relating to rail, including passenger rail, public transit, freight water transport and air transport, including partial funding of the Milwaukee-to-Chicago Hiawatha Service provided by Amtrak.    Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Understanding the business requirements and preparing the design document.  ? Participated in all the phases of the system including designing, coding, testing, building, deployment and supporting the production environment.  ? Drew sequence diagrams and Class diagrams using Microsoft vision and Star UML.  ? Created new tables, Sequences and written SQL queries and PL/SQL in Oracle and My SQL.  ? Introduced new user/actor called Dealer in the application and developed using struts2 and spring framework.  ? Developed User interface using JSP, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Ajax and JQuery.  ? Developed DAO's for retrieving the data from the database.  ? Developed event and event handlers and object initializing using Spring IOC framework  ? Developed MVC framework by writing action classes and light weight business logic classes using Struts2 framework and Spring3.0 framework.  ? Used Spring MVC with Spring Restful Template to Produce and consume Restful Web Services.  ? Used Hibernate Template of Spring Framework and Hibernate Interceptors.  ? Developed database access mechanism by using by Hibernate ORM framework.  ? Configured WebLogic JMS Servers, JDBC Data Sources, JDBC Connection Pools, and Bridge to provide interoperability between WebLogic.  ? Developed asynchronous data retrieval using AJAX.  ? Used Jenkins as a build tool and for deploying the modules to server.  ? Managed Jenkins continuous integration tool for releases.  ? Used Tomcat as web server to store the static contents and JBoss as application server.    Environment: Java JDK 1.7, MySQL, Oracle, Eclipse, JBoss 5.0.1 Spring3.0, Windows, JUnit, Web services, Struts1.x, Struts2.x, Hibernate, Agile Methodology, Perforce, Star UML Microsoft vision, MQSeries, HPQC, Servlet, Altova XML Spy, Apache Tomcat Webserver, Maven. J2EE developer Bangalore IT Solutions - Bangalore, Karnataka July 2009 to October 2011 Description: Real Estate Portal has four levels of users, Authors, Editors, Publishers and Customers. News authors create news articles and save them with a status of 'Edit'. They can delete the new article or change the status to "submitted" so that a News editor can review the article. Once submitted, the author cannot edit the article. The Editor reviews and/or edits the article. If required, the Editor can set the status back to "edit" to let the original Author do the updates. The Editor can publish the article immediately or in the future by setting future publish and withdrawal dates. Once the dates are correct, customers can view the articles via the Global or Country news pages. If the article is manually given an end date, it is withdrawn from public view and archived on that date; if no end date is manually input, the article is given a default end date and withdrawn on that date. Once an article is archived, the editor can re-publish it if required or delete it from the system. Authors and Editors work within one country. A single user can be given access to multiple country news authoring/editing if required.  Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Designed and developed JSP, Servlets.  ? Wrote Build Script for compiling the application.  ? Developed Session Beans and Entity Beans (EJB)  ? Developed stored procedures, triggers, and queries using PL/SQL in SQL Server.  ? Maintained responsibility for database design, implementation and administration.  ? Testing the functionality and behavioral aspect of the software.  ? Responsible for customer interaction, analysis of the requirements and project scheduling.  ? Web development using AJAX techniques in combination with Struts and JPF frameworks. Created utility scripts for using AJAX effectively.  ? Used VML in workflow module to represent two dimensional pictures in the browser for showing workflow process status diagrammatically.  ? Used various Core Java concepts such as Multi-Threading, Exception Handling, Collection APIs to implement various features and enhancements.  ? Designed and developed new module called Report Framework to simplify the process of generating report for the user.  ? Created dashboards for tracking application usage.  ? Application is deployed on Websphere application server which is installed on AIX operating system.  ? Developing Web Applications with various Open Source frameworks Spring Framework, Spring MVC, Hibernate ORM and Struts.  ? Extensively used Eclipse while writing the code.  ? Deployed WAR Applications in Web Logic.  ? Consistently produced the highest quality code through disciplined and rigorous unit testing using Junit.    Environment: IBM WebSphere, Core Java, SQL, JDBC, JavaScript, HTML, JSP, Servlet, EJB, Oracle 7.0. Java Developer Reliance Tech Services August 2008 to May 2009 Description: Mobile Number Portability is the application which allows the customers to change the service provider of their mobile. It consists of three modules port-in, port-out and SLA. There will be a Central Clearing House (CCH) which acts as an interface between all the network service providers. Port-in module deals with the customers who are changing from other service providers to Reliance. Port-out module deals with the customers who are changing from Reliance. SLA module deals with the service level agreements to maintain the time lines between the interfaces of various providers through CCH.    Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Assisted in creating Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams and Sequence diagrams.  ? Implemented Design Patterns like Session Facade, Business Delegate, Data Access objects, Data Transfer Objects, Front Controller, Service Locate and Singleton.  ? Developed user interface using JSP, Servlets, and Ajax.  ? Used JSP, Java Script, HTML, and CSS for manipulating, validating, customizing, error messages to the User Interface.  ? Involved in designing MVC patterns using HTML for Controller Form Layers.  ? Involved in writing complex SQL queries, Stored Procedures in PL/SQL to query data.  ? Extensively used JDBC concepts to connect to, retrieve and update information in the database.  ? Used JMS for sending updates to various other applications.  ? Involved in Consuming XML web services using SOAP and WSDL.  ? Involved in writing the ANT scripts to build and deploy the application.  ? Extensively used Eclipse 3.x while writing code.  ? Deployed WAR applications in Web Logic.  ? Consistently produced the highest quality code through disciplined and rigorous unit testing using JUnit.    Environment: Struts, Java, Servlets, JSP, JMS, JavaScript, AJAX, XML, Oracle 9i, TOAD, Eclipse, ANT, BEA WebLogic, PL/SQL. Education Bachelor's Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages Java, JavaScript, Typescript, C, C++  Web Technologies  HTML4/5, CSS2/3, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, REST, DOM, XML, PHP, JSP, Servlet, JDBC, Spring, Hibernate, ES6, Bootstrap, Jasmine, build tools (Grunt & gulp), AngularJS, Angular1.5, Angular2, BackboneJS, D3.JS, AWS, Node JS, React JS    Debugging Tools Chrome Dev. Tools, Net Beans Connector, Firebug, REST Console  Developer Tools (IDE) Sublime Text 2/3, Brackets, Eclipse, NetBeans 8.0, WEBSTORM  Source Control Tools SVN (Tortoise), GIT 2.x  Database Technologies MongoDB, MySQL, SQL Server, Oracle12g, 10g    Operating Systems Windows XP/7/8, Mac OS X 10.9.x, Linux  Other MS Visual Studio, IE Tester, JIRA, FileZilla, PuTTY, WireShark, , MS Office 2013 (Word, Excel, PP), invision