Demandware Demandware Demandware Richmond, VA Working as a senior e-commerce technologist with expertise in designing enterprise Demandware e-Commerce, Ecommerce & web based applications with having 11+ year of experience in e-commerce domain from design, implementation and deployment.  Having strong command on Demandware entire e-Commerce platform and framework.  Technical specialization - Strong command on Demandware e-Commerce, SOLR, Java/J2EE and Spring Framework.    Good working experience on Java platform, JSP, Spring, Servlets, Struts, Tomcat, and Oracle.  Thorough knowledge of OOPs concepts, Design patterns. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Demandware PUMA - Westford, MA February 2015 to Present Puma is an athletic company. The company sells shoes and athletic apparel for men, women, kids and various sports    Responsibilities:  1) Working as Demandware Senior developer/ demandware Architect.  2) Understand the whole requirement from the business/client, prepared high level design diagram and present to client with technical team.  3) Design the demandware framework for Starbucks.  4) Responsible for coordination between IT/Business/Support Leads those are participating in application development activities.  5) Update/review the HLD and LLD for the entire project,  6) Prepared technical ISD with team and shared with across the vendors, review technical ISD; helping the team by solving their concerns related to design.  7) Arch, development process, coding, support UAT/Prod environment.  8) Performance analysis and improve performance.    • Developing frontend and backend solutions.  • Changing the default Demandware logic related to PDP, Cart and Checkout process.  • Implementing social APIs such as YouTube, Google, facebook, twitter, etc.  • Implemented Integrations PayPal, Pay metric Payment and Order Management systems.  • Implemented Email Marketing Integration.  • Implemented Feed Jobs for Amazon, Google, commission junction etc.  • Site preferences, custom objects/attributes creation and scheduling jobs in Demandware.  • Content and assets/slots management  Using web service framework to implement Teachers Bonus bank dashboard.  Extensive work at checkout design and implementation with custom features such as parent payment system  Architecting and implementation of custom order placement system  Designing service protocols to integrate with internal business APIs using demandware service framework.  Architecting custom features: Multiple user registration, Order by flyers  Custom Canadian tax implementation by using demandware native tax framework    Environment: Demandware Script, Pipelines API, JavaScript, J Query, CSS, ISML, HTML, XML, SVN, Eclipse etc. demandware developer Dooney and Bourke Inc December 2010 to December 2014 Worked on development of Demandware B2C ecommerce portal for Dooney and Bourke, who are one of the largest sellers and manufacturer of clothes across the globe.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzed the new requirements and provided estimates and workable solutions.  Redesign of the PDP page by working very close with the business. This projects interactive wireframes which later was developed and integrated into the e-com platform.  • Responsible for all technology-related activities in client implementations.  • Generation of Technical Specification Documents, project task management, developer mentoring  • Developed Demandware Cartridges with controllers.  • Implemented Email Marketing Integrations.  • Implemented Payment Integrations like PayPal, Cybersource, Visa Checkout, and MasterPass, Order Management systems.  • Involved in Code review and Quality Assurance.  • Creating new pipelines and editing existing for fulfilling business requirements put by client.  • Implemented web services for Profile Management and customer Portal.  • Integrated existing business logic with new design.  • Site preferences, custom objects/attributes creation and scheduling jobs in Demandware.  • Collaborate with multiple developers in different locations to maintain current sites.  • Implementing new functionality into existing sites and rapidly fixing bugs before site launches.  • Integrate different third-party solutions such as ExactTarget, ShopRunner, CyberSource, MotionPoint, PayPal, and more.  • Stay up-to-date with Demandware platform releases and webinars.    Environment: Demandware Script, Pipelines API, JavaScript, J Query, CSS, ISML, HTML, XML, SVN, Eclipse etc. Ecommerce Java Developer Somerset, NJ August 2005 to October 2010 Ivoclar Vivadent is a leading international dental company with a comprehensive product and system range for dentists and dental technicians.    Worked on development of Ecommerce website which included:  Involved in design and development.  Involved in Data analysis.  Involved in the Java J2EE applications.  Involved in the end-to-end solution implementation Skills demandware (7 years), demandware developer (7 years), demandware architect (2 years) Additional Information Skills    Language: Java, Spring, Struts, EJB, JSP  Demandware Skills:: ISML tags, Pipeline development, Pipelet API, Script API, Open Commerce API, Demandware packages, SiteGenesis 1.0, SiteGenesis 2.0, LINK Cartridge Development, Business Manager, AB Testing, Demandware Build Suite, Integration Framework, Feed Jobs, Webservice Integration, Demandware Marketing tools, Site and Data Replication and Multi-Site handling.  Web Services: SOAP, WSDL, XML, REST Web Services  Internet Servers: Apache Tomcat 5.1 to 6.0, WebLogic 8.1  Job Function: Programming, Testing  Tools: Eclipse 3.x, PL/SQL Developer, TOAD, CVS, SVN and GIT  RDBMS: Oracle9i, Sybase  OS/Environment: Windows, UNIX  Search Engine: SOLR    PROJECTS UNDERTAKEN