Sr. Android Developer Sr. Android <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Android Developer - Nextgen Technologies Inc Edison, NJ • Over 9+ years of overall IT experience in software design and development in Mobile Application development.  • Extensive involvement in all stages of SDLC including Requirements gathering, Development, Maintenance and Testing.  • Proficient with Java and Android SDK version 2.3.3 (Gingerbread) - 6.0 (Marshmallow).  • In-depth Knowledge in Android Architecture and Android lifecycle process.  • Proficient in Android framework: Activities, Intents, Services, Content Provider, Broadcast Receivers.  • Experience in Android UI toolkit (basic/picker/list views, adapters, dialogs, menus) and Layout Managers.  • Experience in working with Google Maps API, GPS Location Data, XML, HTML5, Push Notifications using GCM.  • Experience in implementing background services using Async task, Threads and Services in android  • Experience in using Android Framework APIs such as Location, Camera, Media player, Bluetooth and Wi-Fi.  • Experience in developing applications based on Google's Material Design Guidelines.  • Good Knowledge in working with ADB, Logcat, and event logs.  • Implemented & consumed REST based web services with JSON and XML data on Client side.  • Experience working with AGILE, SCRUM methodologies and Test Driven Development.  • Experience in developing MVC based design pattern applications.  • Proficient in using web services like RESTful and SOAP.  • Experience in using Android Framework APIs such as Location, Camera, Media player, Bluetooth and Wi-Fi.  • Hands on Experience in developing using Social Networking such as Facebook, Twitter, Google+.  • Experienced with Oracle, SQL, MYSQL, SQLite, Shared Preferences, Db2 databases.  • Usage of versioning tools such as Git, SVN.  • Experience in Test Driven Development-(TDD).  • Quickly adapt in fast pace environment and learn new technologies and programming tools.  • Good analytical and communication skills and ability to work independently with minimal supervision and also perform as part of a team.  • Highly motivated team player with analytical, organizational and technical skills, unique ability to adapt quickly to challenges and changing environment.  • Hands on experience in using Eclipse, Android Studio, Android SDK and ADT Plug-in. Work Experience Sr. Android Developer Nextgen Technologies Inc - Mountain View, CA May 2017 to Present Project description: Monster Job Search is a mobile application developed for Monster.com, Users can Register with application and manage their accounts, upload Resumes, cover letters, Search, view, and apply to jobs. Users will receive notifications regarding jobs.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed mobile application for Android mobile devices with extensive UI development.  • Developed user-friendly UI using widgets like Menus, Dialogs, ListView, Recycler views, card views, ScrollView as the client need.  • Worked on Android content providers for implementing features like sending E-mails, SMS, etc., from the app.  • Worked on services, Async tasks and Alert Notification API to implement event reminder feature into the mobile app.  • Implemented JSON and REST API web service calls for data parsing and server interaction.  • Integrated Web service API of Facebook, Google, LinkedIn, Drop Box and Outlook using OAUTH authentication and JSON parsing of response.  • Used web views, list views & populated lists to display the lists from database using simple adapters.  • Used SCRUM-Agile Software Development Method for managing application developments.  • Integrated GPS, to get the current location and filter the contacts by the nearest address.  • Involved in testing of the Application in various devices, screen sizes and resolutions  • Used GIT as the version control tool to commit and update the project from the server  • Worked on memory management with respect to database, data loading and debugging the application using Logcat, DDMS.    Environment: Android SDK 5.1, GSON, REST Web Services, Junit, JENKINS, JIRA, GIT, SQLite, Shared Preferences, DDMS, Agile and Third Party API's. Sr. Android Developer Wipro Limited - Bentonville, AR September 2015 to May 2017 Project description: my Wipro Mobile is ONE SINGLE CONTAINER application that allows all Wipro employees and Wipro's contractors to manage business transactions, access productivity tools, news, videos, communications, and other content via one single application on their mobile device.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the process Design, Coding and Testing phases of the software development cycle.  • Extensively worked on designing layouts to be compatible with multiple screen size.  • Worked with GCM in implementing the PUSH notifications.  • Experience with data storage in android using SQLite, Shared Preferences and Files. Collaborated with web services team.  • Implemented MVC design pattern in designing and development of this project.  • Integrated different 3rd Party libraries like Retrofit, GSON, Picasso, Dagger, Butterknife etc. to achieve better performance for the application.  • Responsible for consuming the REST services, getting JSON response and parsing them to get the required information.  • Experience working with SVN as the version control tool to commit and update the project from the server.  • Improved the application performance by detecting memory leaks using DDMS  • Followed agile methodology for the application development.    Environment: Android Studio, Eclipse IDE (ADT Plugin), Android SDK, Android 5.0 and 4.0 API, Gradle, SVN, JSON, SQLite, Shared Preferences, JDK, Junit, Jenkins, REST web services. Android Developer Travelzoo Inc - Mountain View, CA December 2013 to September 2015 Project description: Travel zoo is an international internet media company, with huge number of subscribers, it provides deals on travels, entertainments, and restaurants. Engineered an android based application which helps the users to buy deals worldwide.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering requirements and all phases of SDLC.  • Developed easy to use GUI based on Material Design guidelines.  • Implemented AsyncTask for fetching data from REST API's and handling long term operations for better performance of GUI.  • Implemented Google Maps API, GPS, to get the current location and filter the contacts by the nearest address.  • Used Fragments to support Tablets and Phones.  • Implemented logic to store and retrieve data related to latest deals in a SQLite database.  • Implemented Google Cloud Messaging (GCM) using GCM Cloud Connection Server (CCS) to receive notifications alerts.  • Implemented Activities, Services, Content Providers and Broadcast Receivers along with their life-cycles to define the applications overall behavior.  • Responsible for consuming the REST services, getting JSON response and parsing them to get the required information.  • Worked with Web Views, List Views, and customized view lists to display the lists from database using Adapters.  • Worked with GIT for version control and project management.  • Implemented SCRUM/Agile software development method for managing application development.  • Responsible for memory management, data loading, testing the application on different Android devices.  • TDD testing and deploy in Google Paly store.    Environment: Android SDK, Android API's GPS, Eclipse IDE, ADT Plug-in, GIT (version control), DDMS console, MAC-OS, ADB server, tried GSON library, emulator, JSON. Java/J2ee Developer Sportech PLC - Atlanta, GA November 2011 to August 2013 BetPro Smart    Project description: Sportech PLC is one of the internet Gambling and Entertainment Company. Bet pro Smart is a web based Horse Racing application which is used by a consumer to perform functions like register, fund the account and wager. This application helps the consumer by providing different logics and options for wagering. Consumer can modify the betting courses according to their own strategy inside the application. This application has interface for making deposits and withdrawal from the account.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Designed the application by implementing Spring Framework based on MVC Architecture.  • Developed the User Interfaces using JSP, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • As part of the Agile team worked on estimate releases, tasks with development manager and allocated work for development and testing team.  • Implemented RESTful based web services call to services  • Developed the unit test cases and performed the unit testing using Junit  • Used different Design Patterns like Factory Pattern and Singleton Pattern.  • Developed Hibernate DAO classes and Spring Business objects.  • Used Eclipse IDE for designing, coding and developing applications.  • Used SVN as version control system.    Environment: Java, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, Servlets, JSP's, JAX-RPC Web Services, Spring, Hibernate, MySQL, Eclipse IDE, MySQL, Tomcat 7, SVN, Jenkins, ANT. Java Developer Sterling5 Inc - Atlanta, GA May 2008 to October 2011 Project description: Data Bank for the Life Insurance product is an insurance application that provides an integrated environment which addresses all the key functions like account management, policy changes/renewals, monthly premium dues alerts, claims processing status.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible and active in the analysis, definition, design, implementation, management, and deployment of full software development life-cycle of project.  • Developed front-end using JSPs, HTML and used JavaScript for client side validations.  • Implemented JDBC logic for invoking stored procedures in batches.  • Implemented "Model View Controller (MVC)" architecture for an efficient implementation of the view level customizations and interface with the application logic  • Developed logic for consuming SOAP web service to store documents.  • Performed Unit Testing of all Modules.  • Followed Agile SDLC methodology    Environment: Windows Server 2000, Oracle 9i, Java, JDK 1.1.6, JDBC, Servlets, JSF, JSP, HTML, CSS, AJAX, XML, UML, SOAP. Education Bachelor's Skills ANDROID STUDIO, API, C++, Git, JAVASCRIPT Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages: Java, C, C++.  Platforms: Windows XP/Vista/7, Linux, Android, Mac OS  Web Technologies: HTML5, XML, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX.  Database: SQLite, MySQL, Oracle 9i/10g/11g, DB2.  IDE: Android Studio, Eclipse, NetBeans.  Web Services: RESTful, SOAP.  Parsing Techniques: XML (SOAP API), JSON (RESTful API)  Version control: SVN, GIT.