Sr. Java/UI Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span>/UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java/UI Developer - Verizon Phoenix, AZ • Over 10+ years of IT experience in User Interface (UI) and Software Development life cycle(SDLC) which includes Planning, Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance of N-tier architectures,Web based applications and Client/Server applications in domains like Finance, Banking, Healthcare etc..  • Hand on experience in designing User Interface (UI), developing the applications, Production Support and Performance tuning using Java Servlets, JSP, HTML, XML, Bootstrap CSS, Java Script, AngularJS, Node.js, JSTL,JQuery, JNDI, JDBC, JMS, JSON.  • Extensive experience in Java Beans, Multi-threading,Struts, Hibernate ORM tool,and SOAP and Restful web services, JMS, Spring 3.x.  • Client-side Programming with HTML,DHTML, Java Script, CSS, XML, JSF, AJAX and JQuery.  • Experience in Web Services like SOAP, WSDL and good Knowledge in SOA.  • Involved in developing JSP Pages using Spring MVC and Integrating Spring MVC with JQuery for Validation Rules.  • Good Experience in writing SQL, PL/SQL.  • Experience in applying the latest software development approaches including MVC, event - driven applications usingAJAX, Object Oriented Java Script, JSON and XML.  • Hands on experience in developing applications using Model View Controller Architecture and Spring Frameworks.  • Experience in using built tools like Ant, Maven and Jenkins.  • Performed Configuration, deployment and support of cloud services including Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Worked with IBM Web Sphere, JBoss, Web logic application servers and Apache Tomcat Web Server.  • Developed applications based on Mean Stack using Mongo DB,AngularJS and Node.js.  • Designing Web applications and Web contents utilizing various Search Engine Optimization (SEO) Techniques.  • Implemented various levels of application and services using Spring-Framework 2.x&3.x and ORM tools like Hibernate 3.0 for fast pace and efficient code generation.  • Developer for database development and Interaction using IDE's such as Eclipse and Net Beans.  • Experience with various Spring Modules such as Spring MVC, Spring Security, Spring AOP, Spring Core, Spring Auto Wiring and Spring Modules Such as Framework with Hibernate as the back-end ORM tool.  • Proficient in Object Oriented Design/Development (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), Model View Control (MVC) design pattern and Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Experience in JavaScript Unit Testing using QUnit, and Angular End-End testing using Jasmine.  • Good Experience working with High Traffic Websites.  • Build Servers using AWS which includes importing necessary volumes, launching the EC2 instance, creating security groups, auto-scaling, load balancers.  • Strong database skills in Oracle 8i/9i/10g, Sybase, DB2, MySQL, MS-Access and MS SQL Server 2008.  • Hands-on experience in Git and CVS for version controlling and project management. Work Experience Sr. Java/UI Developer Verizon - Austin, TX May 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved with all the aspects of Software development life cycle in the Project.  • Involved in the design of modules by creating Use Case, Class realizations and sequence diagrams using rational Rose.  • Worked in Agile methodology environment including, Test Driven Development (TDD) with Continuous Integration/Delivery.  • Designed and created reports, charts using Jasper.  • Developed system preference UI Screens Using JSP, AngularJs templates, HTML5 and CSS3.  • Worked with NPM commands and using package.json for managing dependencies and dev-dependencies of Node.js applications.  • Used the REST Templates in the Spring Services to call the Restful Web Services.  • Developed User Interface using Verizon Responsive Framework (VZRF).  • Used Spring Frameworks in building the Application based MVC design paradigm.  • Used AngularJS for data binding, MVC, routing, testing, factories, filters, translations, etc.  • Worked with modules like MongoDB and mongoose for database persistence using Node.js to interact with mongodb  • Used Bootstrap components of Angular UI like Carousel, Collapse, Dropdown, Tabs.  • Developed JSPs and Custom tags for Creating User Interface.  • Developed the front end validations using JQuery.  • Involved in configuring front office with Eclipse for deploying, version controlling tools.  • Used the light weight container of the spring Frame work to provide architectural flexibility for Inversion of Controller (IOC).  • Worked with Passport and JSON web tokens for authentication and authorization security configurations using Node.js  • Used Hibernate ORM module as an Object Relational mapping tool for back end operations over Oracle database.  • Used GIT as version controller tool for this Application.  • Used AWS Beanstalk for deploying and scaling web applications and services developed with Java.  • Described Front-End as well as Back-End server script in the Node.js environment.  • Designed, Developed and documented codes for JUnit Frameworks.  • Developed SOA based applications with Restful and SOAP Web Services.  • Used RAD IDE for developing the application and IBM web sphere server for deploying various components of application.  • Deployed applications on AWS by using Elastic Beanstalk.  • JSTL used for displaying all Tags and for developing JSPs.  • Migrated applications to AWS Cloud.  • Provides timely feedback to project team members on the work products they have submitted for review. Leads and co-ordinates requirements elicitation by outlining the systems functionality and delimiting the system.  • Developed deployments Script, integration and Configuration management of the entire application modules.  • Support Implementation and Post-Implementation defect management with the urgent needed to support a successful go-live.  • Documentation of common problems prior to go-live and while actively in a Production support role.  Environment:  Java, Web services,AWS, JSP, RAD 7.0, Spring Framework, Jasper Report, Hibernate 3.0, JDBC, JSTL, XML, HTML5, CSS3, AngularJs, Node.js, Bootstrap, MongoDB, JSP, JQuery, JMS, JUnit, SOAP, REST, My Eclipse, Oracle, Web Sphere Application Server, GIT. Web/UI Developer Cisco systems Inc October 2015 to March 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirements and Analysis Understanding the requirements of the client and flow of the application as well as the application Framework.  • Worked with Agile software lifecycle methodologies. Create design documents when and as required. Perform coding, debugging and testing.  • Designed and Developed user Interactive of Web pages with the help of HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap and AJAX. Java/J2EE Developer Colonical Saving bank January 2015 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Analyzed business requirements, Participated in technical design, development and testing of various modules assigned.  • Involved in web designing using HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript and extensively used table less design in CSS for Positioning.  • Developed the application TDD (Test Driven Development) methodology.  • Developed page layouts, Navigations and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management review.  • Designed Front end with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like AngularJs and Node.js.  • Implemented responsive web design using Media Queries and Bootstrap.  • Worked with CSS preprocessor SASS, focusing on reusability and modularity.  • Single page application developed using AngularJs and Mongo DB as the database.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Written test cases in Jasmine and used Karma as a test runner.  • Used JQuery to make the HTML, DHTML and CSS code interact with the JavaScript function to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Enhance user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Node.js.  • Enhancement of existing application utilizing JSP, Created HTML navigation menu that is role based menu items changes dynamically, derived from the database in the form of XML.  • Involved in validating forms on server side using Ajax with Spring MVC and JQuery.  • Involved in writing JQuery-based Ajax request.  • Extensively worked with making calls to APIs to fetch the data from the backend as JSON response and Parse it on the UI for DOM/CSS Manipulation.  • Wrote the Maven Scripts for building the EAR and JAR files for deploying the application.  • Used Maven for building the application and deployed on JBoss 4.0 Application Server  • Developed client-side AJAX application that uses XSLT, XPath, JavaScript OOP, more blind objects and retrieve them via JNDI interface.  • Developed Web services for data transfer from client to server and vice versa using Apache Axis, SOAP, WSDL and UDDI.  • Used NPM, GRUNT, Gulp for UI task runner and experienced in using the GRUNT commands for building and deploying the project.  • Used AngularJs to offer an easy and safe way to build high performance and scalable network application.  • Co-ordinate with QA for testing, production releases, Application deployment and integration.  • Provided production level code to the engineering team for product development, including cross-browser support, CSS optimization and ADA compliance support.  Environment:  Java, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, DHTML, JSON, AngularJs, Node.js,Jenkins, NPM, GRUNT, Bootstrap, JSP, AJAX,JNDI, JBoss, Scrum, Maven, Jasmine, Karma,ADA, Spring MVC, Mongo DB, Hibernate,Apache Axis, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, GWT, SOAP and REST Web Servers, Web technologies, Photoshop, PL/SQL, Oracle, Windows. Java/UI Developer ICICI Lombard Insurance - Hyderabad, Telangana March 2011 to October 2014 Responsibilities:  • Redesigned the existing site to create new interfaces.  • Created graphics including Icons, Images and Logos using Adobe Flash Catalyst.  • Used Dreamweaver as HTML editor for designing new pages.  • Used Server controls, User control and HTML Control.  • Developed HTML Prototypes and documents using CSS Style Sheets.  • Designed Dynamic Client-Side Java Script Codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  • Designed and coded the User Interface of the website using JavaScript, AngularJs, Query, Html and CSS.  • Worked with the programmers and graphic designers for project requirement and analysis.  • Involved in development of SOAP Web services using Apache to extract client related data from database.  • Created and consumed Web Services using Restful Web Services.  • Worked on Cross- Browser Coding for making pages compatible with all browsers.  • Produced GUI Prototypes for business logic presentations.  • The new website has made it much easier for the users to access the page and check the required info.  • Performed validation of completed sites including the debugging and testing of code.  • Created Stored Procedure, Trigger for database access and events. Java Developer HCL Technologies - Chennai, Tamil Nadu May 2008 to January 2011 Environment:  HTML, CSS, Adobe Photoshop, AngularJs, Adobe Flash, Apache Axis, Web Services, SOAP, REST, Dreamweaver, JQuery, JavaScript, XML, Oracle, Windows.  Client: HCL Technologies, Chennai, India May 2008 to Jan 2011  Role: Java Developer  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for server side implementation on Web Logic Application Server.  • Developed application using Agile Methodology.  • Used Struts MVC for Presentation Layer.  • Configured struts-config.xml and web.xml and properties file provided by struts framework for the implemented modules.  • Created Action Forms and Action Classes for the modules.  • Implemented Action Errors a feature of struts for error reporting.  • Used Hibernate as an ORM Framework for persistence to achieve client making local method invocations on Plan Old Java Object (POJO)to access underlying relational data.  • Made use of Java Naming and Directory Interface (JNDI).  • Designed the database schema for the application.  • Wrote SQL Queries and Procedures.  • Review and test the code to ensure improvement in performance of the code.  • Participate in requirement analysis of the applications along with business owners.  • Used Microsoft VISIO in the design phase for modeling which included Use Case diagram, Sequence diagram and Class Diagram.  • Responsible for Data Analysis and database design (ERD diagrams).  • Support, design and troubleshot all the applications.  Environment:  J2EE, Eclipse, Web Logic 10, Web Sphere, IBM DB2, SQL, Hibernate 3.0, Struts, MVC, POJO, JNDI, Java Script, SQL, Microsoft Visio, Web Servers,Agile. Education Bachelor's Skills JAVA (9 years), ANGULARJS (9 years), SOAP (9 years), JAVASCRIPT (7 years), WEB SERVICES (9 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Language Java (JDK 1.5, 1.6, 1.7), SQL, PL/SQL, JavaScript, UML.  Web Technologies  Core Java, J2EE, Design Patterns (Core Java and J2EE), Servlets, JSP, JDBC, XML, JSTL, HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, DHTML, XHTML, AJAX, SOAP, Restful Web Services,AngularJs, JQuery, Node.js and Bootstrap.    Architecture/ Frameworks J2EE 1.3/1.4, Struts 2.x, Hibernate3.x, Spring 3.x  Databases Oracle8i/9i/10g/11g, IBM UDB DB2, MS SQL Server 2000, DB2, Mongo DB.  IDE's and Tools EclipseIDE, Net Beans3.x, Dreamweaver, Visual Studio, Microsoft Visio, ANT and MAVEN.  Scripting Languages Java Script, Perl, Shell Script.  Web Services SOAP, UDDI, WSDL and Restful.  Web Application Servers Apache Tomcat 7.x, Web Logic 10.x, IBM Web Sphere 7.x, Jboss 4.x  Operation Systems Windows XP/Vista/7/8, MAC OS X, Linux, Unix.