Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Maximus Hampton, VA ? Over 9+ years of experience as a Full Stack Developer in IT industry. Extensively experienced in Software Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of Object Oriented Applications and Web based Enterprise Applications using java/J2EE.  ? Experience in working in environments using Agile (SCRUM) and Test Driven Development (TDD) development methodologies.  ? Proficient in UI design, developed Front End using JSP, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Ajax, JQuery, Angularjs, Angular 2.0, Node's, ReactJs and have knowledge on Backbone Js.  ? Hands on experiences with Core Java with Multithreading, Concurrency, File Handling, I/O, Generics, Data Structures and Collections, Garbage Collection.  ? Experience in java8 features like Parallel Streams, Lambdas, functional interfaces and filters.  ? Experience in developing, deploying, and managing N-tier, server-centric J2EE enterprise class projects using Eclipse IDE 3.x/4.x, My Eclipse 6.5, ( Java 2, Applets, Swing, JDBC 3.0, RMI), J2EE 1.5 Web application technologies (Servlets 2.x, JSP 1.x/2.x, JSTL 1.2, JSF 1.x, JNDI), Enterprise application technologies (EJB 2.x/3.0, JMS).  ? Good experience on Design Patterns (J2EE) like Singleton, Factory, DAO, Session Façade, Front Controller, and Delegate Pattern.  ? Experienced in developing messaging module by using Spring JMS, Apache Camel and Rabbit MQ.  ? Experience in spring framework (MVC/IOC/ORM/JDBC/AOP/BATCH/WEBFLOW/Context) and Struts (MVC, architecture, interceptors, action mappings and resource bundles).  ? Experience in developing Micro services using Spring-Boot.  ? Experience in development and deployment of applications using Jboss, Web Logic Application Server, IBM Web Sphere Application and Apache Tomcat.  ? Experience in developing SOAP based Web Services using Apache CXF and JAX-WS.  ? Experienced in developing Restful Services using JAX-RS specification like Jersey and Rest Easy to implement REST based Application.  ? Experience in manipulating the streaming data to clusters through Kafka and Spark-Streaming  ? Experience in using bug/issue tracking, project Tracking and Management tool JIRA.  ? Experience working on Web Services SOAP & REST, JAX-WS, JAXB, WSDL and UDDI registry.  ? Expertise in implementing Service Oriented Architectures (SOA) using XML based Web Service such as SOAP, UDDI and WSDL.  ? Experience with Cloud Computing Service environment like (AWS) Amazon Web Services (EC2, EBS, S3 and ELASTIC SEARCH).  ? Involved in designed fully distributed system with the use of Restful API and MicroServices.  ? Complete understanding of the DevOps process with continuous integration using Jenkins, JIRA, GIT, and CHEF.  ? Expertise in developing model components using ORM technologies like MyBatis, Hibernate. (Caching, Hibernate Template, DAO) to write Database independent persistence logic and to maintain portable relationships between the databases.  ? Hands on experience in unit testing using with Junit, build tools like ANT, Maven and logging tools like Log4J, source code management tools like SVN, Git and containerization, orchestration tools like Kubernetes, Dockers.  ? Have developed the Micro services framework prototype with guidelines, the developers have followed as skeleton model and developed their interfaces on top of the baseline prototype.  ? Good experience in J2EE Testing in developing test cases with Junit, MOCKITO for Unit testing, and logging using Log4j.  ? Experienced with RDBMS implementation and development using Oracle, My SQL, MSSQL and DB2.  ? Expertise in database modeling and development using No SQL Database such as MongoDB and Cassandra.  ? Experience in using version control and configuration management tools like Git, SVN and CVS.  ? Experience in using the tools like Ant and Maven for build automation.  ? Extensive experience in testing on multiple operating systems including Linux, UNIX, Sun Solaris, and Windows.  ? Domain knowledge and business expertise in banking, healthcare, e-commerce, insurance, finance, telecom. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Maximus - Hampton, VA, US June 2018 to Present MAXIMUS, Inc. provides business process services (BPS) to government health and human services programs in the United States, the United Kingdom, Australia, Canada, Singapore, and Saudi Arabia. The Company provides Medicaid enrollment and the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) services in the United States.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in several stages of SDLC by gathering the needs, analyzing the user specifications, implementing, debugging, and maintenance, and participated in Water Fall methodology for development.  ? Develop test cases and followed Test Driven Development (TDD) methodology for unit test using Jasmine test framework with the Karma test runner. Protractor was used for end to end testing. Tracked defects on Bugzilla.  ? Designed and developed the front end layout by using HTML, CSS.  ? Developed several algorithms for generating several data patterns.  ? Used jQuery for web page animation.  ? Used Node.js for back end design, to interact with database.  ? Used jQuery to navigate the page jumps. Used jQuery handling events for UI page handle validation and form validation.  ? Designed responsive web page by using CSS media queries to adjust the page layout under certain type of devices.  ? Implemented Ajax to update the prices and receive the orders.  ? Used Mongoose API in order to access the MongoDB from Node.js  ? Used RESTful APIs for CRUD operations.  ? Developed a controller Servlet that dispatches request to appropriate Action Classes.  ? Developed the application under J2EE Architecture using Spring, Struts, Hibernate, Servlets, Web logic and JSP.  ? Used Java Persistence API (JPA) and Hibernate for performing the Database Transactions.  ? Used join point and advice Spring AOP modules for cross cutting concerns and IOC for dependency injection.  ? Designed extensive additions to existing Java Web Application utilizing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) techniques.  ? Extensively worked on Spring Bean wiring, Spring DAO and Spring AOP modules.  ? Designed Graphical User Interface (GUI) for various WebPages using AJAX, HTML, CSS, JSF, JQuery and JavaScript.  ? Implemented SOA architecture with web services using SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and XML.  ? Used Spring JDBC API to talk MySQL Database for Read and Write operations.  ? Wrote scripts in JMeter to test the performance of the API's.  ? Designed and Implemented the MongoDB schema. Wrote services to store and retrieve user data from the MongoDB for the application on device.  ? Created statistic report by using High charts.  ? Tested functionalities of various modules by using JUnit.  ? Used WebStorm as the IDE for the project team.  ? Adopted SVN as the version control tool.    Environment: Windows, Java, Data structures and Design Patterns, HTML, CSS, Node.JS, JavaScript, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, Ajax, RESTful WebServices, WebStorm, JSON, QUnit, SVN, MongoDB, Mongoose API, Spring Framework 3.0, Hibernate Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Dell - Austin, TX, US April 2017 to May 2018 Dell offers a wide selection of secure, reliable, cost-effective Wyse thin clients designed to integrate into any virtualized or web-based infrastructure, while meeting the budget and performance requirements for any application.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed the functionalities using Agile Scrum Methodology.  ? Extensive experience in various Agile methodologies like Test Driven Development (TDD)  ? Involved in developing UI using Spring MVC framework, JSP, JSTL, HTML5, CSS, Javascript, JQuery, AJAX and Angular2.  ? Created Reusable Modules and Custom Directives in Angular2.0 which got used in various places of application.  ? Implemented AngularJS Controllers to maintain each view data. Implemented Angular Service callsusing Angular Factory tested all application controllers extensively with AngularJS's built-in testing facilities.  ? Extensively used core java concepts like Multithreading, Collections Framework, File I/o, OOP Concepts, JDBC, Generics and concurrency.  ? Used Java8 features in developing the code like Lambda expressions, creating resource classes, fetching documents from database.  ? Used design patterns like Singleton, Data Access Objects, Factory and MVC patterns.  ? Testing and production support of core java based multithreading ETL tool for distributed loading XML data into Oracle database using JPA/Hibernate.  ? Created POJO's and DAO's for the database entities using Spring JDBC annotation mappings  ? Integrated with Spring Cloud projects to provide distributed tracing and other features.  ? Developed Microservices with spring and tested the application using Spring Boot.  ? Currently working on building RESTFul API Microservices for a few modules to be deployed on Docker containers  ? Development of cloud hosted web applications and REST APIs using Spring Boot with embedded Tomcat.  ? Deployed the application on Amazon Web services (AWS) and used it to provide a large computing capacity for scalable solutions.  ? Develop core business API and services using groovy as a grails service, also wrote Groovy Script for automation testing for different API services  ? Deployed applications into Continuous integration environments like Jenkins to integrate and deploy code on CI environments for development testing.  ? Worked towards creating near real time data streaming solutions using Spark Streaming, Kafka and persist the data in Cassandra.  ? Implemented Rest based web service using JAX-RS annotations, Jersey provider implementation.  ? Integrated ActiveMQ and spring JMS API to send and receive message for the application's restfulAPI.  ? Designed and developed Web services, JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, RMI, JTA, JMS and XML, XSD, XSLT, X-Path.  ? Wrote build scripts using Maven.  ? Mappings in hibernate files and created DAO and POJO.  ? MongoDB installation, configuration and in designing MongoDB multi-shared cluster and monitoring with MMS. Managed large datasets.  ? Installed the WebSphere MQ and involved in configuring MDB listeners, JMS resources, and queues and integrating with the WebSphere Application Server.  ? Configuring WebSphere Application Server on multiple platforms for both horizontal and vertical scaling for Work Load Management.  ? Used log4j to print the logging, debugging, warning, info statements.  ? Implemented Selenium Web Drivers and Protractor for testing the UI components.  ? Involved in setting up Test automation and developed cucumber feature files and used Selenium for automated testing with TestNG.  ? Used JIRA tool for Issue/bug tracking, monitoring of work assignment in the system.  ? Experience on implementation of version control software Git repositories.    Environment: JDK 1.8, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, JQueryUI, AJAX and Angular 2, JPA, Spring (IOC, AOP, JDBC), Spring Boot, Microservices, JSP, Hibernate, AWS, RESTful Web services, SOAP, Docker, SoapUI, Maven, Web Sphere Application Server, Mongo DB, Log4j, Jenkins, Kafka, Spark, JIRA, Selenium, Protractor, Git, ActiveMQ, TestNG, SoapUI, Toad, TestNG, Jersey. Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Jefferson Bank - San Antonio, TX, US March 2016 to March 2017 Jefferson Bank provides funds or loans to people with small business requirements. Applicants get their loans sanctioned based on their credit history. The applicant information is maintained in a database along with the details of the loan for repayment. This data is filtered into different categories based on parameters like type of account, loan amount, due date. The filtered data are used for statistics for generating reports.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Design, Development and Support phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  ? Analyzed and fixed issues related to REST Web services and Application responses.  ? Implemented Hibernate for data persistence and management.  ? Designed and implemented the user interface using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and Angular JS.  ? Involved with bug fixing on functionality, performance and designing issues with JavaScript, JQuery, HTML5, CSS3 and Angular JS.  ? Implementation of a responsive UI which will scale itself depending on the device, platform and browser, using Angular 2, Typescript, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap.  ? Built MAVEN scripts for automated deployment and for the build operation of the entire application.  ? Used AGILE methodology and participated in SCRUM meetings.  ? Developed Controller for request, response paradigm by Spring Controllers using Spring-MVC. Used JSON as response type in REST Web services.  ? Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly.  ? Developed a tool to retrieve and send data to third party service provider this feature was implemented using RESTful.  ? Created Buckets in AWS and stored files. Enabled Versioning and security for files stored.  ? Developed the GUI's using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JSP and AngularJS framework components using Web Storm IDE.  ? Implemented AWS client API to interact with different services as Console configuration for AWS EC2.  ? Used RESTFUL client to interact with the services by providing the RESTFUL URL mapping  ? Deployed the application JBoss application server and configured JMS in the WebSphere application server to send messages on the queue.  ? Configured System.js to bundle Angular2.0 version app and created Call flow diagrams for IVR Applications using VISCO.  ? Spring Controllers were used with Angular JS to route the control to desired Java services.  ? Implemented scripting with Ajax and XML to dynamically refresh the page contents.  ? Responsible to manipulate HTML5, CSS3 in JQuery and as well as making the pages dynamic using AJAX, JSON and XML.  ? Developed Hibernate mapping files using different mapping strategies such as table per class hierarchy and also used Hibernate Persistence Strategy to interact with database.  ? Developed core Java programs for all business rules and workflows using spring framework.  ? Designed and developed Restful service interface using Spring MVC to the underlying customer event API. Involved in building Restful Web services using JAX-RSAPI.  ? Worked on Cloud implementation by installing, building and deploying applications using Cloud Foundry and using AWS.  ? Developed customer facing software for managing advertisements to grow the business using JavaScript/ JQuery, HTML5 and CSS3.  ? AWS EC2 instances were configured in developing and QA environments with NodeJS.  ? Created custom Plugins, templates, and functions for Angular JS application.  ? Used Maven as the build tool and Tortoise SVN as the Source version controller.  ? Used Subversion (SVN) as the configuration management tool to manage the code repository.  ? Performed unit testing using JUnit.  ? Followed Agile Scrum methodology and used TDD for writing test cases.  ? Involved in developing stored procedures and Triggers on Oracle11g.  ? Used NPM to manager server-side packages.    Environment: Java 1.7, J2EE, Spring Framework 4.0, Hibernate, AJAX, Oracle 11g, Apace CXF, SOAP, AWS, REST, JBoss, JavaScript, AWS, AngularJS, NodeJS, Bootstrap, JQuery, JUnit, Grunt, GIT, SQL, JMS, HTML5, JSP-EL, Maven. Sr. Java Developer Nintendo of America - Redmond, WA, US April 2015 to February 2016 The Nintendo of America is a subsidiary of Nintendo Co. Ltd. It is Japanese multinational consumer electronics and Software Company, it is the world's largest video game company by revenue. The Nintendo of America handles the sales, marketing and Advertising of Nintendo.    Responsibilities:  ? Participated in all phases of the SDLC including technical requirements, design, development and unit testing.  ? Used JSP's HTML on front end, Servlets as Front Controllers and JavaScript and JQuery for client-side validations.  ? Used Angular JS in dynamic binding of HTML web pages using the MVC architecture.  ? Created controller Servlets for handling HTTP requests from JSP pages.  ? Developed few web pages using JSP, JSTL, HTML, CSS, Java script.  ? Worked on AngularJS framework to develop the page and make it responsive.  ? Developed RESTful Web Services for the project as per the business requirements.  ? Involved in developing XML Schemas and used JAXB for marshalling/un-marshalling.  ? Implemented MVC architecture by using Spring framework.  ? Implemented the Spring dependency injection of the Database helper instance to the action objects.  ? Used JDBC to invoke Stored Procedures and database connectivity to Oracle database.  ? All the coding and testing was performed using IntelliJ.  ? Maintained the existing code based developed in Spring and Hibernate framework by incorporating new features and fixing bugs.  ? Involved in fixing bugs and unit testing with test cases using JUnit framework  ? Developed stored procedures and triggers using PL/SQL to calculate and update the tables to implement business logic using Oracle database.  ? Involved in writing Hibernate Query Language (HQL) for persistence layer.  ? Used Maven to build, run and create JARs and WAR files among other uses.  ? Used automated scripts and performed functionality testing during the various phases of the application development using Selenium  ? Created Automation script using Selenium WebDriver. Executed scripts on different browser and different platform.  ? Worked with Jenkins in continuous Integration by using Git tool and executed projects in Apache Maven and Ant.  ? Used Log4j for application logging and debugging.  • Involve in Technology & Performance Optimization and Error Reduction Procedures.  • Maintain and enhance existing client applications and internal systems to improve integration.  • Wrote Test Cases which adhere to a Test-Driven Development (TDD) Pattern.  • JUnit was used for unit testing and implementing Test Driven Development (TDD) methodology.  • Involved in planning process of iterations under the Agile Scrum methodology    Environment: Java 1.7, J2EE, Spring3.0, Hibernate, Oracle, AngularJS, HTML, XML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Log4J, Restful Web Services, Maven. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Bayer Healthcare - Pittsburgh, PA, US May 2013 to March 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for creation of Class Diagrams, Sequence and Activity diagrams, classes using Rational Rose and UML.  ? Responsible for coding the business logic using Spring MVC.  ? Used Spring AOP for cross cutting concerns like logging, security and transaction management.  ? Designed and Developed Java classes, XML Mapping files and Service classes to use Hibernate API.  ? Developed in creating a web interface using JSP, DHTML and HTML.  ? Developed multiple formatting, validation utilities in Java, JavaScript functions and CSS.  ? Developed Entity Beans and Session Beans (Stateful and Stateless) to implement the back end business logic to register a new user and existing user related functions.  ? Wrote SQL queries, stored procedures, and triggers to perform back-end database operations by using DB2 database.  ? Debugged, tested and documented code fixes for production issues working with both on shore and offshore resources.  ? Developed the application on Eclipse IDE to have an easy and guiding code environment.  ? Implemented SVN configuration management tool for code versioning and release.  ? Deployed Enterprise application using WebLogic Application Server.  ? Used Maven tool for building and packaging the application.  ? Unit test and writing Test scripts using JUnit Framework.    Environment: Java, J2EE,UML, Spring, Hibernate, OOAD, Eclipse, Apache Tomcat, WebLogic, HTML, XML, XSLT, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, JSP, TOAD, DB2, PL/SQL,JMS, SVN, Maven, Log4j, JUnit Java/J2EE Programmer Bloomington, IL, US January 2012 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Implemented server side programs by using Servlets and client side by using JSP.  ? Handled the database access by implementing Controller Servlet.  ? Used Hibernate as the Object/Relational Mapping Framework to access and manipulate data from the Oracle database.  ? Created views and stored procedures in Oracle SQL/PL-SQL.  ? Used Log4J for logging/detecting errors in the application.  ? Used Prime Faces in Java Server Faces (JSF) applications.  ? Used Entity Java Beans (EJB) to capture the data from UI and used Entity Session Beans as DAO Layer to persist the data.  ? Created jars and wars and deployed on WebSphere Application Server (WAS).  ? Used FireBug to keep a track of bugs & also used CVS as the version control manager.    Environment: Java, Java Script, JQuery, JSP, Servlets, JSTL, Web Services, WSDL, UML, WAS, EJB, JSF, Hibernate, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Eclipse, JBoss, SQL, PL/SQL and Oracle9i, FireBug, CVS, Spring. Software Engineer July 2009 to November 2011 Responsibilities:  ? Developed the application using Struts Framework that leverages classical Model View Controller (MVC) architecture.  ? Designed the user interfaces using JSPs, developed custom tags, and used JSTL Taglib.  ? Developed controller classes using Struts and tiles api  ? Developed User Interface using AJAX in JSP and also performed client-side validation  ? Developed JUnit test cases for all the developed modules. Used SVN as version control    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Struts 1.1, JNDI, DB2, HTML, XML, DOM, SAX, ANT, AJAX, Rational Rose, Eclipse Indigo 3.5, SOAP, Apache Tomcat, Oracle 10g, LOG4J, SVN. Education Bachelor's Skills HTML (9 years), Java (9 years), JSP. (9 years), Model View Controller (7 years), XML. (7 years) Additional Information SKILLSET:    Platforms Windows 2000/NT/ XP/Vista and Sun Solaris 2.8/2.9, UNIX  Programming JDK 1.5, 1.6, 1.7,1.8, C, C++  Server Scripting JSP1.2, 2.1, JSP-EL, JSTL, Custom Tags  Client Scripting JQuery 1.8,1.9, JQueryUI, Dojo, ExtJS, AngularJS, Javascript, CSS2, CSS3, HTML4, HTML5, NodeJS  Java Frameworks Struts 1.2, Struts 2.1, Spring MVC, DI, AOP, Spring Boot, JSF 1.1, JSF 2.1, GWT, Vaadin, Icefaces, Myfaces  Database Tools Toad for Oracle, Toad for MySQL, Toad for DB2, Toad for MS-SQL, ERWin, Altova Database Spy, MySQL Workbench,  Databases DB2, MS-SQL Server, HSQLDB, PostgresSQL, MySQL  Middleware Specifications: EJB 2.1, EJB 3.0, CORBA, RMI, JMS  Version Control: Tortoise SVN, Rational Clearcase, Accurev, GitHub, CVS  IDEs: Eclipse 3.0, 3.1, MyEclipse 4.1, IntelliJ, Netbeans, JBuilder 2007, JDeveloper.  Build Tools ANT 1.7,1.8,1.9, Maven, Gradle  Continuous Integration Jenkins, Hudson  XML Tools Altova XML Spy 2005,2008  XML Technologies XSLT, JAXP, JDOM, SAX, DOM, XPATH, XPOINTER, XML, XSD, DTD  Web service Specifications Cloud Services JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, JAX-RS Amazon web services EC2 (AWS)  Webservice Tools SoapUI 4.0,5.1, TcpMon  Webservice Implementations Axis 1.0,2.1, JWSDP2.1, Sun Metro, Sun Jersey, Apache XFire, Apache CXF  Whitebox Testing Junit 3, Junit 4, DBUnit, JUnitPerf, HttpUnit, LoadTest, TimedTest, Selenium, Fitnesse, EasyMock, PowerMocksk  Blackbox Testing JMeter, LoadUI, LoadRunner, HP Quality Center, WinRunner,  Application Servers Weblogic 8.1, 10.0, Websphere 6.1, JBoss 4.0, Glassfish 4.0  Web Servers Tomcat 5.0,6.0,7.1, Joans  UML Tools Altova UML Model, Rational Enterprise, MS Visio  ORM Fra ORM Frameworks Hibernate 3.0,3.1,4.1, TopLink, OpenJPA, iBatis  Defect Tracking JIRA, Bugzilla, Rational ClearQuest  Methodologies Agile (XP, Scrum), Rational Unified Process(RUP), Waterfall, Kanban  Reporting iReports, JReports  Batch Jobs Quartz Scheduler, Cron, Spring Batch  HTML Editors MS-Frontpage 2003, Adobe Dreamweaver, Coffee Cup HTML  Templeting Velocity, Freemarker  Search APIs Solr, Lucene