Salesforce Lightning Developer & Technical Architect Salesforce Lightning <span class="hl">Developer</span> &amp; Technical Architect Salesforce Lightning Developer / Technical Architect - Client -Thomson Reuters Jersey City, NJ • 10+ Years of experience in IT with 7+ years of experience in Salesforce.com CRM, Force.com Platform as a Salesforce Technical Lead/Senior Salesforce Developer.  • Extensive Experience in writing Apex Custom, Extension Controllers, Triggers, Web Services and Visualforce pages.  • Extensive User Interface experience in using HTML5, CSS in Visualforce pages, components and building client-side validations, responsive UI using JavaScript and jQuery.  • Good knowledge in implementing best practices, coding standards and design patterns while customizing Salesforce using Apex Language, Triggers and Web Services.  • Experience in working with Salesforce Query Languages (SOQL, SOSL), and writing selective queries for best optimization.  • Extensive Experience on development of solutions implemented on Apttus CPQ (Configure-Price-Quote) and understanding of the APTTUS CPQ data model and functionality. Extensive work on Apttus CPQ features like product configuration, Proposal, Pricing, Integration with SAP systems, Assets, Renewals, Entitlements.  • Strong experience in Integrating Salesforce with internal/external SAP, ERP applications using Apex SOAP & REST API and developed customized web services classes to business custom functionality.  • Experience in Administration, Configuration, and Implementation of Salesforce CRM and Salesforce SFA applications based on Apex Language and Force.com Platform.  • Proficient in doing test driven development and writing test classes to have max code coverage and writing framework factory classes to generate test data.  • Good knowledge with development tools Developer Console, Eclipse, Lightning App Builder and Schema builder.  • Good experience in managing code repositories using Git, SVN source control tools.  • Well-versed in migrating salesforce meta-data between orgs using Force.com ant migration tool, Eclipse and Change Sets.  • Extensive Salesforce Administration experience in configuring Role Hierarchy, Profiles, Territory Management, Sharing Settings, Certificate Management, Email administration, Translation workbench and Email templates (HTML, Visualforce)  • Hands-on experience in providing solutions declaratively using Workflow rules, Process Builder, Email services, Approval Process, Email Alert, Field updates and Outbound messaging.  • Strong implementation and rollout experience with Salesforce.com CRM (Sales cloud, Service Cloud, Marketing cloud), Communities, Sites and Force.com platform.  • Proficient in setting up Sales process on Opportunities, setting up of Quotes, Products, Order and assets creation. End to End knowledge of Apttus Managed packages, Customizations and Apttus CPQ flow.  • Strong experience with Salesforce native reporting services using summary, tabular and matrix Reports, Dashboards  • Experience with Continuous integration tools like GITHUB Enterprise, Jenkins, and written scripts and deployments using ANT, Change Sets and Eclipse IDE.  • Expertise working in Agile, Scrum methodologies and waterfall environments.  • Having good work ethics, quick learner and working with team and communication skills. Work Experience Salesforce Lightning Developer & Technical Architect Client -Thomson Reuters - Jersey City, NJ June 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Participating in Business requirement gathering workshops and review meetings to understand the new requirement / enhancements.  • Responsible for creating technical design from Business Requirements and documenting the same.  • Design and Architect the integration of Salesforce org with external systems using web services like Apex SOAP and REST.  • Responsible for Design & implementation of Workflow rules, Triggers, Validation rules, Custom buttons, Custom links, Custom pages, extended controllers and Apex classes to drive the functionality.  • Work closely with client, analyse the impacts of implementing new changes to existing design and architecture.  • Ensure the smooth deployment of the changes in various sandboxes and production using ANT-GIT and Change Sets.  • Guiding development teams to deliver full lifecycle SFDC implementations from inception to roll-out, including code reviews.  • Participate in Daily Scrum calls and grooming calls to help and provide guidance on issues.  • Provide guidance on environment management, release management, code versioning best practices, and deployment methodologies.  • Analysing and Installing Salesforce Apps, configurations and maintaining user security permissions in compliance with organizational Needs.  • Creating the Work Flow Rules, Approval Processes, Process Builder flows, Email Services.  • Developing Dynamic approval processes (Salesforce and Apttus) with necessary templates, page layouts and defined approval actions on them for automation.  • Custom development using Apex and Visual Force Pages with javascript, jquery and Angular JS  • Working with Apex Data Loader tool to perform DML operation using CSV files.  • Ensure data integrity by merging duplicate Leads, Contacts, and Accounts; performing mass updates. Archival and Deletion of old quotes/Accounts  • Worked on salesforce administrative activities of Creating Users, Roles, Profiles, Permission Set, Public Groups, Queues, Sharing Rules and Validation Rules and Apttus pricing validations and callback validations.  • Developed Workflow rules, Approval process and actions like Creating Task, Email Alert, and Field updates.  • Developed Apttus Approval Processes while handling Quotes to route to the applicable queues created list views for the same.  • Used Process Builder to consolidate/migrate existing workflow rules and associated actions into to Process flows.  • Performed data migration, clean-up and integration activities using Data Loader.  • Provided the training to the internal business users to use the application and develop their own custom reports.  • Configured Single sign-on SSO using SAML.  • Responsible for incremental production data back up using copystorm tool.    Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Sales cloud, Service Cloud, Apex Language, Visualforce (Pages, Component & Controllers), Javascript, jquery, Apex Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Apttus CPQ, Apex SOAP and Rest API, Apex Batch, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Copado, Copystorm. Senior Salesforce Developer Mckinsey - Mumbai, Maharashtra September 2015 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  • Design and Architect integration of Reach job portal site with Google drive, Drop box, LinkedIn and other external systems.  • Developed and Managed API integrations and web services.  • Designed and developed various Visualforce Pages, Apex Classes, Controller Classes, Extensions and Apex Triggers for functional needs in the various applications.  • Provided daily user support in managing users, creating and maintaining custom objects and fields, handling bulk data migration, maintenance of page layouts.  • Used Picklists, Dependent Picklists, Record Types to enforce data quality. Senior Salesforce Developer Client iHeartMedia, Inc - Mumbai, Maharashtra June 2014 to August 2015 Responsibilities  • Design, Development and Maintenance services for SFDC initiatives at iheartmedia.  • Designed very complex Visual force pages & web forms using JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5, JQuery, Angular JS and Controllers.  • Created various Record Types, visual flows, Assignment Rules, Public Groups, Queues, Custom Settings, Sites, Time-Based Workflows etc.  • Managed API integrations including Apex web services.  • Designed and developed various Visualforce Pages, Apex Classes, Controller Classes, Extensions and Apex Triggers for functional needs in the various applications.  • Created Custom Controllers to make external web service callouts, validate and insert data.  • Worked on Bug fixes, Testing, Production Deployment via ANT, Eclipse, Workbench, force.com IDE and Change Sets.    Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visualforce (Pages, Component & Controllers), Salesforce.com Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, HTML, Java Script, Apex Web Services, Force.com Eclipse IDE Plug-in, SOQL. Senior Salesforce Developer Kelly Services, Inc - Mumbai, Maharashtra August 2012 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed Apex Custom, Extension controller classes, Apex Triggers, Batch and Schedule classes for various functional needs in the application.  • Developed Visualforce Pages/Components with custom client-side validations using jQuery and Pagination using standard list controllers.  • Written custom apex web service classes and provided WSDL file for external application to invoke salesforce.  • Written apex unit test classes for code coverage of Apex classes, triggers and Batch classes.  • Worked with Force.com IDE, Developer Console, and Sublime for developing Apex classes, Triggers and Web Services.  • Involved in development of modules like sharing of jobs on social media like facebook, twitter, gmail using Addthis/Janrain. The search of jobs is done using JavaScript remoting for ajax call to Apex. Also modules like tracking source to know the source sending the maximum number of job applications  • Worked on modules like Profile update, Online Resume Builder, Enhanced search of jobs, log-in using social media, share jobs on social media, Integration to fetch jobs from external systems, tracking source and UI Enhancement on the Kelly Job Recruiting Force.com site.  • Used Force.com platform for developing feature rich and user-friendly Visual force pages for enhancing Sales Force UI.  • Building Visual Force Pages, Visual Force Custom Controllers/ Components, Advanced Search Functionality, Reports, Dashboards, Tabs  • Interaction with the Business on daily basis and providing solutions.    Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visualforce (Pages, Component & Controllers), Salesforce.com Data Loader, Salesforce customizations and configurations, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Email Services, HTML, Java Script, Apex Web Services, Force.com Eclipse IDE Plug-in, SOQL. Java Developer Client Sogeti - Mumbai, Maharashtra May 2011 to August 2012 Responsibilities:  • Worked on migration of legacy coldfusion Application to Java platform.  • Worked on understanding the existing application to gather requirements for Object Oriented Analysis and Design  • Designed and Developed several modules in Spring MVC framework  • Work on JSP, javascript, Jquery, html to build rich user interface  • Conduct software analysis, programming, testing and debugging  • Identifying production and non-production application issues  • Recommend changes to improve established java application processes    Environment: J2EE, Servlets, JSPs, Oracle 10g, HTML, XML, CVS, Log4J, Junit, JavaScript, Spring, XML Schema (XSD), Maven3, Apache tomcat, Eclipse IDE. Java Developer Cox Communications - Pune, Maharashtra September 2008 to May 2011 Responsibilities  • Worked with Struts MVC framework for the application development.  • Implemented Action Classes, Action Forms, POJO classes, Action Form beans, Struts-Config.xml files and Web.xml files using Struts MVC.  • Used Struts Validator Framework for the Server side Validation.  • Made use of JSPs, Custom Tags, and HTML to develop the frontend UI pages.  • Responsible for performing Code Reviewing and Debugging.  • Worked with Java Messaging Services (JMS) for reliable and Asynchronous Communication.  • Worked with Oracle Database.  • Used Hibernate to interact with Oracle database tables by using CRUD operations.  • Used JUnit to write the Test Cases and Test Suites for test the code.  • Used Log4J to capture the logs.  • Maintained the Source Code in SVN Repository.  • Deployed the Application in JBoss Application Server.  • Apache Maven is used as Build tool to automate the build process for the entire Application.  • Worked in the Agile Environment, attended daily standup Scrum Meetings for the status of work.  • Involved in the Analysis, Design, and Development phases of SDLC.    Environment: J2EE, Servlets, JSPs, Struts1.3, JSP, JMS, Oracle 10g, HTML, XML, CVS, Log4J, Junit, JavaScript, Spring, Hibernate3, XML Schema (XSD), Maven3, JBoss3, Eclipse IDE. Education Master's Skills ECLIPSE (10+ years), jQuery (7 years), APEX (7 years), WEB SERVICES (7 years), HTML (7 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Salesforce Technologies  Salesforce CRM, Apex Classes, Apex Triggers, Custom and Extension Controllers, SOQL, SASL, SOSL, Visual Force Pages, Components, Workflows, Approvals, Dashboards, Apex Web Services (SOAP&REST), Reports, Cases Management, Apttus CPQ, Copado, Lightning Design System    Databases Oracle, DB2, MySQL, PL/SQL &SOQL, HTML  Programming Languages C, C++, JAVA, J2EE, Apex, SOQL, HTML  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, Java Script, jQuery, AJAX, Visualforce  Tools Eclipse, Force.com Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Force.com Data loader, SOAP UI, Cloud Connector, Outlook Connector, Workbench.  Enterprise Servers Apache Tomcat