Sr Java Developer Sr <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Java Developer - Citigroup - Inpensa Inpensa, NJ • 9 + years of IT experience in Java, J2EE development/enhancement projects.  • Experience Core Java concepts such as Polymorphism, Abstraction, Encapsulation, Synchronization, Collection Framework.  • Expert in multi-open source framework, like Struts, Spring and Hibernate O/R mapping  • Expertise in design and development of various web applications with n-tier Architecture using MVC and J2EE Architecture techniques  • Solid understanding of Object-Oriented Programming (OOP) concepts. Familiar with Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  • Development expertise in utilizing multiple IDE's including IntelliJ, Eclipse and WASAD.  • Extensive working experience in financial, telecom and retail domains.  • Experience in various databases such as Oracle, DB2and MySQ L.  • Proven experience of using Application Server Tomcat 7.x/6.x/5.x/4.x, Web logic 11g, IBM Web Sphere 7.0/6, J Boss and Wildfly 8.1.0.Final.  • Excellent analytical, programming and problem solving skills.  • Lead the technical team and mentored other developers.  • Involved in client interaction, requirement gathering and analysis, testing, bug fixing and meeting deadlines with quality work.  • Rich experience in design, development and deployment (in production environments) of enterprise applications.  • Eminent in reporting to client with daily and weekly accomplishment reports through conducting conference calls.  • Designing and implementing fully automated server build, management, monitoring and deployment solutions spanning multiple platforms, tools and technologies using Jenkins  • Familiar with integrated testing and development process, such as J Unit.  • Experience in building and deploying applications using ANT, Maven, Shell Scripting on the Servers and also worked on various operating systems like Windows, MS-DOS and Unix  • Tremendous written and oral communication skills with a strongest asset to adapt to different environment.  • Experience in cloud computing design, development using AWS Management Console  • Ability to perform at a high level, meet deadlines with quality delivery, adaptable to ever changing priorities.  • Manage business processes and workflow using jBPM - Involved in development of Process design, process execution and process monitoring  • Experienced in multiple software development cycle of Business applications in web and client-server environment, such as Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) Agile Software Development in a highly process oriented Organization. Experience in implementation of Agile projects, exposure to several Agile practices like Scrum, Pair Programming, Test Driven Development, Agile Estimation and User Stories  • Hands on experience on various well known and Custom based J2EE based frameworks and reference architecture like Struts, Hibernate, Spring Framework etc. using Weblogic, Websphere, JBoss and Apache Tomcat etc. Application servers and writing SQL, PL/SQL, triggers, and stored procedures on database like, Oracle, IBM DB2, MySQL, SQL Server etc. Proficient in using IDE like IntelliJ, Eclipse, Websphere etc  • Strong background in Java and J2EE Design Patterns such as MVC, DAO, POJO, Singleton, Factory, Business Delegate, Strategy, Observer, Session Façade, Front Controller etc. in developing Multi-Tier distributed applications.  • Extensive experience on sustenance activities - Maintenance and production (Level 3) support. Work Experience Sr Java Developer Citigroup - Inpensa September 2014 to Present Project Description: The solution allows to make better investments through strategic planning, ROI analysis and benefits realization.  CaseIQ is the most comprehensive Business Case Management tool focuses not just the Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) and the Total Value of Ownership (TVO) to compute ROI, establish value, and justify spend. It implements the complete workflow of business case development (draft -> review -> approve) and empowers users with what-if scenario analysis and aggregated reporting and analytics.  TracIQ is our ROI tracking and value realization tool that reports the performance of initiatives that are under way. It focuses beyond the project period to track the expected ROI, revenue growth, cost saves, and business outcomes and to report variance.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Involved in the SDLC phases i.e. analysis, design, development and testing phases of the project.  • Provided technical leadership in architecture, design and development of project.  • Analysis, design and development of Application based on JAVA/J2EE technologies.  • Used Spring to wire the object dependencies across the application.  • Involved in integrating Spring with Hibernate and delegated the persistence operation using Hibernate template  • Involved in the development of Web Services ( Rest) for various business functionalities.  • Used SVN (Subversion control System) as the configuration management tool.  • Involved in workflow management system.  • JNDI /JDBC / Data source configurations in Wildfly  • Deployment and troubleshooting of WAR files in clustered environment.  • Prepared Test Cases to perform Unit, Integration and System Testing. Tested the developed components using JUnit.  • Responsible for deployments using Jenkins.  • Involved in cloud computing design, development using AWS Management Console  • Implemented drools rules for comparing the data between multiple modules.  • Involved in developing the code that the application can be accessed through mobile phone.  • Created PL/SQL stored procedures, functions and packages.  • Used Log4J components for logging. Perform daily monitoring of log files and resolve issues.  • Designing and implementing fully automated server build, management, monitoring and deployment solutions spanning multiple platforms, tools and technologies using Jenkins  • Communicates with clients on all technical aspects of service delivery involving requirements, design, development, documentation and deployment  Environment: Core Java - JDK 1.8, AWS, IntelliJ 15.0, Wildfly 8.1, Spring 4.1.7, Drools, Hibernate 4.1.10, XML, Log4j, Oracle 11.2, Rest Web Services, Windows, Unix, Birt, Jenkins. Sr Java developer Accenture Services - Atlanta, GA March 2013 to August 2014 Project Description: The Virtual Concierge service helps residents of the Smart+Connected Community, to improve the quality of their busy lifestyles, by assisting them on their daily chores and errands. The concierge would be made available 'virtually' right in the living room of every resident of the S+CC community via TelePresence units in their homes. The idea is to leverage the improved quality of interactions and the human touch that we get via TelePresence to increase service efficiencies and availability at lower cost compared to a dedicated physical concierge desk in the customer premises. In addition to the increased accessibility, availability and customer satisfactions, the virtual concierge solution provides opportunity for the service vendors to penetrate into every customer's home. Even though TelePresnece is the primary channel for accessing the Virtual Concierge, the solution is made available via web portal accessed from PCs and mobile phones thus giving the end users seamless access to the service wherever they are  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the requirement analysis, design, and development as well as in the testing of this product.  • Developed the application using Struts Framework that leverages classical Model View Controller (MVC) architecture  • Used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database  • Used Spring to wire the object dependencies across the application.  • Used JSPs in the presentation tier along with various customs tags, JSTL tags, CSS and JavaScript.  • Involved in integrating Spring with Struts and Hibernate and delegated the persistence operation using Hibernate template  • Involved in the development of Web Services- Restful for various business functionalities.  • Used SVN (Subversion control System) as the configuration management tool.  • Used ANT scripts to build the application and deployed on BEA WebLogic Application Server  • Involved in workflow management system using JPBM.  • Installed and configured Web Logic application server and was responsible for various deployments over it and administration of Web Logic  • Deployment and troubleshooting of JAR, WAR, and EAR files in clustered environment  • Prepared Test Cases to perform Unit, Integration and System Testing. Tested the developed components using JUnit.  • Created PL/SQL stored procedures, functions and packages.  • Used Log4J components for logging. Perform daily monitoring of log files and resolve issues.  • Communicates with clients on all technical aspects of service delivery involving requirements, design, development, documentation and deployment  Environment: Java 7.1, Java EE, Eclipse, BEA WebLogic, Struts, Spring, JSP, JavaScript, HTML, JBPM, Hibernate, XML, Log4j, Oracle 10g, Web Services ( Rest), Windows. Sr. Java Developer Cisco Systems - Hartford, CT February 2011 to March 2013 Description: The Solution addresses the challenges of allowing reservation of desk/cubicle and office space & personalizing the office space as per the employee's preferences. Dynamic allocation of seats based on reservations leads to higher utilization and reducing effective per employee cost of corporate real estate on an ongoing basis. Reservationsthat are based on users' preferences of location and workplace personalization lead to positive employee experience and hence adoption. The solution Optimize operations continuously with better visibility into use of space and improves reporting and analytics for workspace use across various departments.  Responsibilities  • Designed and developed n-tier J2EE application framework that consists of Spring MVC and Web Service components  • Understanding the client requirements and analyzing the required documents.  • Involved in design of various Use Cases, Collaboration and Sequence diagrams in Unified  • Modelling Language UML  • Maintenance support in problem identification and issue resolution  • Performed WebLogic Server administration tasks such as installation and configuration.  • Set up WebLogic domain with a single server instance on windows and linux machines  • Created scripts to create new tables, views, queries for new enhancement in the application  • Responsible for System test, User Acceptance test and final deployment of applications in live environment  • Communicates with the Architect/managers on the progress of the project/initiatives and escalate any issues/constraints hindering the project progress on time.  Environment: Spring MVC, XML, XSD, XSLT, JSF, Oracle, , Restful web service, JSON, eclipse, Or a Person, Vendor or Buyer PCC Technology - Saint Paul, MN February 2010 to January 2011 Saint Paul,MN February 2010 to January 2011  Jboss  Description: Bizpiper Connects Vendors, Buyers and Professionals through digital media. Discover New Business, Showcase Your Business, Connect and expand your network.  Bizpiper mainly divided into four pipers.  Postpiper, Showpiper, Linkpiper and Talk piper  In Post Piper user can post Business Requirement OR a Business Case so as to procure a Product and can Post a Business Problem and Get a Solution OR a Service. Using Show piper, Vendors and Professionals can Showcase their Product/Services so interested Buyers or interested parties can view or review the Product and Connect with the Vendor. Through Linkpiper, Vendors Buyers or Professional can build their connection for a Reason - Like Sell or Buy or Promote yourself and can search for a Company, Or a Person, Vendor or Buyer to Connect. Talk piper allows to find experts and Pose your Question or discuss your Business case and the Users can start a discussion and follow-up on the topic.  Responsibilities  • Java/J2EE application development, supporting business objectives while providing expertise in software development lifecycle phases from concept and design to testing  • Developed use cases, UML diagrams such as Sequence diagrams and class diagrams for the application.  • Workflow of the project using various design patterns like MVC. J2EE Patterns were implemented in each tier  • Analysis and re-engineering to shift the current proprietary, tightly coupled applications to more generic, customizable, component based systems.  • Integrated unit testing tools such as JUnit.  • Web reporting system- used iReport tool to generate Jasper Reports in application  • Writing ant scripts and generating WAR and EAR files.  • System test, User Acceptance test and final deployment of application in live environment.  Environment: Struts, Spring, JSP 2.0, Servlets 2.1, DB sight and MySql 5.0, JMS, BIRT report, Websphere MQ series Java Developer PCC Technology Group - Windsor, CT September 2009 to January 2010 Description: Led the entire project life cycle and architected an application to assist the public in filing annual reports, certificate of legal existence and back office operations with robust and easy workflow. This application is constructed in compliance with DOIT EWTA guidelines  Responsibilities  • Communicates with clients on all technical aspects of service delivery involving requirements, design, development, documentation and deployment.  • Debugging and fixing the issues of the previously developed applications  • Integration with several internal legacy systems.  • Coding and UI development utilizing WAS Express, struts application framework, Java, JSP in front end development.  • Developed and implemented dynamic SQL queries to retrieve information from the database apart from using standard SQL queries.  • Understanding client requirements and analyzing the required documents.  • Coding, unit testing, debugging of follow up module and policy module.  Environment: Customer Framework, JSP 2.0, Servlets 2.1, EJB 3.0, JMS, MQ Series and DB2, Jasper report - iReport. Java Developer Biglots - Blue Springs, MO May 2009 to August 2009 Description: The WRITS system purpose is to provide web based features for taking the complaints from the customers and register the cases based on the state laws, rules and regulations with appropriate sections on the respective title plaintiff and title defendants.  A trademark is a distinctive sign or indicator used by an individual, business organization, or other legal entity to identify that the products or services to consumers with which the trademark appears originate from a unique source, and to distinguish its products or services from those of other entities. The system allows the owner of a registered trademark may commence legal proceedings for trademark infringement to prevent unauthorized use of that trademark. Report changes are changing the printing formats and provide the functionality export to XlS and PDF formats.  Responsibilities  • Documenting requirements specifications.  • Coding and UI development utilizing BEA Weblogic, Struts Application framework, Java, JSP with front end development  • Issue trouble shooting and performance tuning  • Server side development and implementing dao design pattern.  • Integrating Presentation Layer with business logic as per requirements.  • Wrote and modified build scripts to automate release process  • Involved in the debugging of the applications  • Program to send automatically generated mails, based on the due dates to the clients was developed  Environment: Struts, JSP 2.0, HTML, CSS, Servlets 2.1, JMS, and DB2, Eclipse, Weblogic Java Developer Northstar Bank - Fort Worth, TX February 2008 to April 2009 Description:Tulip is a Practice Management System for the Healthcare practice. This allow users to enter and track patients, schedule and track patient appointments, send out insurance claims and patient statements as part of the collection process, process insurance, patient and third party payments, and generate reports for the administrative and clinical staff of the practice.This application developed based on Swing. Reports and Patient statements are generating using iText. Log4j is used for logging.  Responsibilities  • Created utility classes and helper classes for the specific implementations  • Application server configuration.  • Integrating Presentation Layer with business logic as per requirements.  • Coding, unit testing and debugging the issues.  Environment: Java, AWT, Swing, JGoodies Form designer, MySQL5.0, iText. Java/J2EE Developer JNet Technologies Pvt Ltd - Boston, MA April 2007 to January 2008 Description:The overall objective of the Central Voter Registration System (CVR) project is to eliminate the copies of voter databases at Town/City level and replace the Town/City systems with a statewide voter registration system and a centralized voter database.  Description: It is a single solution for fully integrated management system with simple and complete designs for day to day operationsincluding reservations/ availability/ guest history, guest check in /registration cards, guest accounting, call accounting, night audit, back office (includes general ledger, accounts payable, accounts receivable, purchase order), express guest check out, and complete management reporting needed to run hotel property. Powerful and easy to use security system makes software features invisible for users who don't have access to them.  Responsibilities  • System study and requirement analysis.  • Documenting requirements specifications.  • Coding, unit testing, debugging of Follow up module and policy Module.  • Deploying J2EE web applications to QA, Staging, and Production environment  • Understanding the client requirements and analyzing the required documents.  • Involved in developing applications using Java and J2EE  • Extensively used the LOG4j to log regular Debug and Exception statements.  • Developed front end software modules in JSP, HTML  • Developed server-side business logic software modules  • Analyzed users needs and planed information streams  • Analyzed and developed a general business logic for the system software  Environment: Struts, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, XML, MySql, Websphere 5.1, WASAD, Apache Log4j. Education Bachelor's Skills JAVA (10+ years), TESTING (8 years), XML (8 years), J2EE (7 years), ORACLE (7 years), Java J2Ee, Spring, Hibernate Additional Information Technical Skills  Enterprise: Java JSP, Servlets, JNDI, Transaction API, Logging API, Various J2EE and Standard Design Patterns Java Standard Edition Core Java, JDBC, Serialization, Internationalization & Localization etc.  Programming Languages: Java, J2EE and Shell Script  Tools & Framework: Struts, Spring Framework 3.x/4.x, Hibernate 3.x, 4.x Web Services, Log4J, JUNIT, Maven, Ant and Jenkins  Design Patterns: MVC, Front Controller, Factory Method, Service Locator, Business Delegate, Session Facade, Value Object, Data Access Object and Business Object, Singleton, Observer observable, Strategy Pattern  Mark-up/Scripting Lang.: HTML, DHTML (CSS), XML, XSD, XSLT, JavaScript  Application/Web Servers: Web Sphere, Web Logic, Apache Tomcat, Apache Web Server, Jboss, Wildfly  Web Services: SOAP, Restful RDBMS SQL Server 2005, Oracle 12g, DB2, Mysql  Version Control: SVN (Subversion), CVS, VSS  Testing Tools: JUNIT Defect/Bug Tracking Clarify, Bugzilla, Jira