Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java/J2EE Developer - TECHNICAL EXPRIENCE Miami, FL • Java/J2EE Developer with 12+ years of experience which includes software life cycle from requirements phase to support phase which includes requirements to design, implementation, production release, rollouts, performance tuning, maintenance and production support.  • Experience in Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) using UML.  • Good experience in Agile and SCRUM methodologies.  • Specialized in Core Java, Servlets, JSP, JPA, JDBC, JNDI, MVC, Struts, EJB, JMS, XML, JUnit, Custom Tags and Design Patterns.  • Expertise in various components in Spring such as IOC, AOP, MVC, Spring WS.  • Experience implementing applications using Spring Boot and Spring Batch.  • Extensively used Hibernate ORM in data access layer to write DAOs and developed hibernate mapping and configuration files.  • Used various thread pool APIslike BlockingQueue, ConcurrentMap, ConcurrentNavigableMap, ExecutorService, ThreadpoolExecutor and ScheduledExecutorService.  • Strong Knowledge on design patterns such as Singleton, Factory, Abstract Factory, DAO, Adapter Design and Session Facade.  • Used Java 8 Lambda expressions and functional interfaces and Streams API.  • Played an integral role in the development of Web services SOAP/RESTful by JERSEY implementation.  • Extensive experience in XML technologies like XML, XSL, DTD, XML Schemas, SOAP, SAX and DOM.  • Good experience with RCP for developing the web application using the eclipse plug in development.  • Developed UI Layer for the application using AngularJS, JQuery, AJAX,HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSP,JSTL,JSF, Bootstrap  • Expertise in WebLogic, IBM WebSphere, JBOSS and Apache Tomcat.  • Proficiency with databases such as Oracle, MySQL and SQL Server.  • Worked on building and deploy tools -Apache Ant, uDeploy, Maven, Jenkins build  • Experience in UNIX shell scripting and Log4j for runtime logging and debugging.  • Strong experience using Mockito and JUnit to perform unit testing.  • A team player with strong interpersonal, analytical and communication skills Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java/J2EE Developer TECHNICAL EXPRIENCE - Des Moines, IA November 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked with Expere Team (Internal DocGen Team) which involve in generating Documents Using Requirement Editor tool which is Wells Fargo Third Party tool from wolters kluwer, This Tool mainly uses XML and XSD schema to generate documents.  • Developed applications and added new features to existing ones using the Spring Boot Framework.  • Identified participating pages and navigation paths and used Spring Frameworks to handle the pages by developing actions and create classes.  • Worked with Spring Web Flow and Spring Inversion of Control using Dependency Injection.  • Developed services to be executed repeatedly with a fixed time interval using Scheduled Executor Service and Thread Pool Executor.  • Implemented of Multi-Threaded process responsible for ensuring concurrent processing of the Jobs.  • Involved in designing and implementing persistence layer using JPA annotations with Hibernate following the Generic Data Access pattern.  • Used Spring AOP and Dependency Injection (IOC) in developing discount generation Services. Configured and accessed Hibernate with Spring IOC.  • Used Hibernate with Spring in writing annotations to map relationships and create model classes.  • Used Spring Batch for reading, validating and writing the daily batch files into the database.  • Used JDBC to connect to Oracle database and implemented connection pooling.  • Implemented Singleton Pattern, Abstract Factory, Data Access Object and Service Locator.  • Experience in designing, developing, and deploying using JDBC, EJB, Java Beans , JDK, JPA, JMS, MQ, JAX-RPC, RMI, JNDI on windows and flavors of UNIX platforms  • Used Active MQ as a JMS client to exchange messages with web services.  • Wrote DDL and DML files to create and manipulate tables in the database.  • Wrote SQL scripts to configure Spring with the database.  • Generated dynamic XML files using DOM and sending them to different clients by using SOAP.  • Developed XML and XSLT pages to store and present data to the user using parsers.  • Used JBoss as application server to deploy EAR files.  • Prepared necessary project documentation based on code logic.  • Created JUnit test cases, Test suites using JUnit for unit testing of application.  • Implemented build scripts for compiling, building and deploying the application on application server using Ant, Maven and Jenkins.  • Used Log4J to capture logs that includes runtime exceptions, monitored error logs and fixed the errors.  • Used SVN as a version control system to manage the projects.  • Conducted one on one and group training sessions with end users on the new features and getting their feedback on the changes, incorporating their feedback and priorities in the projects tasks  • Provided production support for the application to the business users.    Environment: Java 1.8, J2EE, Spring Framework, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Hibernate, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, EJB, jQuery, SOAP Web services, SOAP UI, WSDL, XML, XSLT, JBoss, JUnit, Selenium, Log4j, Oracle 11g, Ant, Maven, Jenkins, AngularJS, SVN, Eclipse IDE, DAO, Design patterns, JMS, JNDI, RMI. Sr. Java Developer Nike, Inc - Hillsboro, OR September 2015 to October 2016 Providing data for data warehouse team, with interfaces is the core area of this project. In this project an application for enterprise Data warehouse department is developed. From here user can be able to search information across different data bases and systems. Project is categorized as table search, column search and Drill down Search.  Responsibilities:  • Developed the Web Based Rich Client Application using J2EE (Spring).  • Implemented application level persistence using Hibernate and Spring.  • Developed the application using Struts Framework which is based on the MVC design pattern  • Used various thread-safe collections from the threadpool APIs like BlockingQueue, ConcurrentMap, ConcurrentNavigableMap.  • Developed the UI panels using XHTML, CSS, DOJO and jQuery.  • Implemented Ajax function to load data dynamically onto drop down.  • Involved in the development of presentation layer and GUI framework using EXTJS and HTML.  • Developed web pages using HTML/CSS and JavaScript.  • Design and development of a proof-of-concept real-time notification system using Node.js.  • Developed PL/SQL procedures for login module SSIS and written complex SQL queries.  • Developed Data Access Objects (DAO) using JDBC API for Database access.  • Designed and developed using Web Services using Apache CXF.  • Involved in development of REST web services using Spring MVC to extract client related data from databases.  • Developed Rest architecture based Web Services to facilitate communication between client and servers.  • Installed and Configured Eclipse and WebSphere application Server.  • Strong understanding of features and utility functions of jQuery.  • Used jQuery, AJAX for service calls on pages to interact with the server for information.  • Used Subversion for software version control.  • Developed test cases and performed unit testing using JUnit.  • Created Class Diagrams and sequence diagrams using UML.  • Supported agile upgrade and involved in test cases creation.  • Developed static and dynamic Web Pages using JSP, HTML and CSS.  • Developed JSP pages and Servlets for customer maintenance.  • Developed custom tags, JSTL to support custom User Interfaces.  • Maintained report and request generator using Jasper Report.    Environment:  Java, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, jQuery, Ajax, JavaScript, Node.js, Backbone.js, Oracle, PL/SQL, JDBC, Apache CXF, REST, Eclipse, WebSphere, Subversion, JUnit, Agile, JSP, JSTL, Servlet, Maven, Jasper Report. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer TEKsystems, Inc - Plano, TX March 2013 to August 2015 TEKsystems Financial is a leading provider of transparent and independent benchmarks & ratings, analytics, data and research in the global capital, commodity and corporate markets. Self Service is an internal application developed for its Employees. In Employee Self Service, employee can View W4, W2 Taxes, Change their Family Status plans, Update and view Paystubs, Benefits, Emergency Contact, Personal and Professional Information and get the information about online Training courses.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in creation of Low Level Design including sequence diagrams and class diagrams.  • Used Spring (MVC) architecture to implement the application using the concrete principles laid down by several design patterns such as Composite View, Session Facade, Business Delegate, Bean Factory, Singleton, Abstract Factory, Data Access Object and Service Locator.  • Involved in the integration of Spring for implementing Dependency Injection.  • Developed code for obtaining bean references in Spring IOC framework.  • Used ORM technique of mapping data, Hibernate with JPA annotations for defining object relational metadata.  • Integrated business layer using Hibernate with Spring DAO.  • Focused primarily on the MVC components such as Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers, Model and View Objects, View Resolver.  • Used multithreading (Executor Service) in programming to improve overall performance.  • Used thread-safe collections like BlockingQueue, ConcurrentMap and ConcurrentNavigableMap in multithreaded environment.  • Provided portable APIs for developing, exposing and accessing Web applications designed and implemented in compliance with principles of REST architectural style using JAX-RS and Apache jersey.  • Asynchronous messaging is executed by utilizing JMS API for point-to-point messaging.  • Developed unit test cases using Mockito framework and JUnit for testing accuracy of code.  • Developed test scripts using Protractor (Test like a User) which are targeted to reduce the number of regressions by performing end-to-end testing after every important build.  • Involved in writing Oracle PL/SQL Stored procedures, triggers, views.  • Worked with defect tracking system JIRA.  • Analyzed and documented B2B business requirements.  • Implemented Java/J2EE Design patterns like singleton, MVC, Builder and Strategy patterns.  • Developed front end application using JSP, JQuery, Ajax, Java Script, HTML and CSS.  • Extensively used AngularJS UI (Angular Bootstrap) for ng-grid, and UI components.  • Wrote build & deployment scripts using ANT, Maven, shell scripts and Jenkins on UNIX environment.  • Deployed the applications on IBM Websphere Application Server.  • Provided hands-on technical governance on all aspects of production support for different releases.    Environment:  JDK 6, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services (REST), JMS, JavaScript, AngularJS, JSP, AWS, XML, XSD, Oracle PL/SQL, IBM WebSphere, Maven, JUnit, Agile/Scrum Methodology, Mockito, SVN Version Control, Protractor, REST, Oracle, WebLogic Server, Eclipse IDE, DAO, Design patterns, Log4j, JIRA. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Rewa Systems - Brea, CA October 2012 to February 2013 It is a Health care software products development corporation. The application is capable of storing patient personal and medical information like, patient name, address, height, weight, symptoms, allergies, previous visit details with diagnosis etc. This information is used by the doctors/nurses for reference before the patient visits the doctor. This information also works as patient repository. The patient record gets updated with latest information when the patient revisits hospital.    Responsibilities:  • Developed UI screens with multiple wizards, actions and pages using Eclipse RCP plugin framework.  • Involved in development of business components using RCP/RAP plugin development and OSGiFramework.  • Used the lightweight container of the Spring Frame Work to provide architectural flexibility for • Inversion of controller (IOC).  • Used Hibernate ORM to automate the mapping between SQL databases and objects in Java.  • Designed and implemented database structure in Oracle database.  • Used TOAD for database query testing, in the process of optimizing the queries.  • Involved in producing and consuming annotations of SOAP web services using JAX-WS.  • Configured Maven and wrote POM file to install the libraries and dependencies into the projects.  • Implemented build scripts for compiling, building and deploying the application on server using Ant, Maven and Jenkins.  • Used JIRA as a defect tracking system for all projects, and SVN as a code repository to manage project code.  • Used Log4j to monitor the error logs.  • Provided hands-on technical governance on all aspects of production support for different releases.    Environment: RCP, Swing, Spring Framework, Hibernate, HQL, SQL, JMS, Log4j, JUnit, JavaScript, SOAP, XML, Ant, Maven, Jenkins, Log4j, Jira Java Developer Calico Labs - San Francisco, CA December 2010 to September 2012 Calico is a retail company with stores throughout Canada, Germany, Belgium and the United States. Order Management system is for order capture and order processing. The system allows sales/return/exchange order capture, order modification, payment processing and further fulfillment. Receipt generation and displaying of information is also part of the application.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and Developed J2EE web based computer application using Spring, DHTML, and Ajax and UI screens using HTML, CSS, JSP, AngularJS, JavaScript.  • Developed Struts form beans, action classes, JSPs and tiles which allow struts framework standards.  • Used ExecutorService, ThreadpoolExecutor, ScheduledExecutorService from the thread pool APIs in multi-threaded environments.  • Implemented J2EE design patterns- Singleton, Abstract Factory, Factory, Business Delegate, Front Controller, Value List, Value Object and Service Locator.  • Wrote code using spring framework to take advantage of aspect oriented programming and inversion of control principle.  • Generated DAO's to map with database tables using Hibernate.  • Used HQL (Hibernate Query Language) for database querying and retrieval of results.  • Used STRUTS Framework based on (MVC) Model View Controller architecture in WebSphere Application Development.  • Implemented business logic in Middle Tier using pluggable components, which were specified in the customized xml documents using Spring framework.  • Configured Hibernate and JPA annotations with Spring to map the business objects to MySQL Database using XML configuration file.  • Developed business modules with JSP, Servlet, Struts framework, java, XML/XSL and EJB technologies.  • Designed and developed a web-based test client using Spring, JSP, JSTL, JavaScript, HTML and JMS to test different parts of the application.  • Involved in development of business components using Spring Boot and Spring Batch Framework.  • Hibernate related coding, using Ajax for data validation, upload last commit data with help of Ajax, GUI part are user friendly with help of Ajax.  • Involved in creation of web services, WSDL and web methods with Annotation in Hibernate, implemented web services in JAXP based on SOAP protocols using XML and XSLT.  • Web layer is implemented using Servlets and JSP using Struts Framework, Eclipse is used as Java IDE tool for creating Hibernate, Servlets and JSP.  • Involved in ANT scripts to build and deploy the application.  • Used Log4j to monitor the error logs.  • Used JUnit to test the application for each phase of the development process.  • Developed the application and deployed it on WebLogic Server.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JSP and JavaScript, AJAX, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Servlets, JSP, Struts Framework, Hibernate, HQL, MySQL, Servlets, JSP, JMS, Log4j, WebLogic, Spring, JSP, Tag Libraries, Log4j, JUnit, JavaScript, SOAP, HTML, JSON and XML. Java Developer Ertino Inc - San Francisco, CA September 2007 to November 2010 Ertino Inc is a retail company with stores throughout Canada, Germany, Belgium and the United States. Order Management system is for order sourcing, order scheduling and payment processing. The system is integrated with multiple systems like E-commerce and POS. Receipt generation and displaying of information is also part of the application.  Responsibilities:  • Developed webservices for applications using RESTful webservice and Jersey Rest client.  • Designed microservices and used Spring framework to develop new applications using MVC architecture, dependency injection and inversion of control.  • Added new features to database using Oracle database- wrote DDL and DML files using SQL- set up procedures and triggers.  • Have extensively used Java8 Streams, Lambdas and filters to process Order data.  • Also used Hibernate annotations along with Spring to connect to the database when required- wrote HQL.  • Used Tomcat server to deploy and test applications and debug using its logging features.  • Have extensively used Java8 Streams, Lambdas and filters to process Order data.  • Used JUnit to write unit tests and integration test- used Mockito to mock objects and connections.  • Used Maven as a build tool, run different phases and manipulate them according to requirements.  • Used Log4J for logging framework and error handling.  • Built AngularJS framework including MVC architectures, different modules, specific controllers, templates, custom directives and custom filters.  • Used the IntelliJ IDE to develop application and used its built-in database tool, plugin and version control.  • Used multithreading (Executor Service) in programming to improve overall performance.  • Used various thread-safe collections from the threadpool APIs like BlockingQueue, ConcurrentMap, ConcurrentNavigableMap.  • Used GIT for version control and Source Tree to facilitate it.  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript framework like AngularJS and Node JS.  • Wrote XML and JSON configurations to transmit data between server and application.  • Used Active MQ as a JMS client to exchange messages with web services.  • Used UNIX shell for setting up applications and configuring soft links and backing up data.  • Took part in regular meetings to come up with new ideas for system architecture in order to improve performance.  • Used Postman to set up tests for the web services and automate them.  • Implemented J2EE design patterns- Singleton, Abstract Factory, Factory, Business Delegate, Front Controller, Value List, Value Object and Service Locator.  • Developed Web based (JSP, Servlets, jQuery, JavaScript, CSS, XHTML, XML) console for feed monitoring, reporting and life cycle management.  Environment: J2EE, Java 1.7, RESTful webservices, Active MQ, JDBC, Spring Boot, Spring Framework, Hibernate, Angular JS, JAX-RS, Jersey, JUnit, LOG4J, XML, JSON, HQL, XML Beans, JavaScript, jQuery, Maven, Oracle 11g, GIT, Intelli J, Source Tree, Sublime, Postman, Liquibase, Mockito Java/J2EE Developer AT&T - Durham, NC September 2005 to September 2007 Responsibilities:  • Implemented the server side design using the industry standard J2EE design patterns like Business Delegate, Service Locator, Business Interface, Session Facade, and Data Access Object.  • Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) of business requirements with the end users and business analysts.  • Used J2EE design patterns like Spring MVC.  • Developed the application using Spring framework.  • Created sequence diagrams using UML to show the page flows.  • Developed client side screens in XML using XSLT.  • Developed Web Services using WSDL to communicate with the other modules.  • Developed front-end screens using JSP and Tag Libraries.  • Used/modified jQuery to perform AJAX calls for creating interactive web pages on JSON response.  • Used Hibernate for mapping object oriented design model to relational database.    Environment:  Java, J2EE, Spring, WebSphere, Oracle, JDBC, Hibernate, Java Servlets, JSP, JSTL, Java Script, XML, jQuery, Ajax, HTML, UML, JUnit Education Bachelor's Skills J2EE (10+ years), JAVA (10+ years), XML (10+ years), jQuery (10+ years), JAVASCRIPT (9 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Languages Java,J2EE,C,C++ ,PL/SQL, Python  Web Design HTML, XML, AngularJS, JQuery, NodeJS, CSS, JAVAScript, AJAX