Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - NOKIA Austin, TX Professional Software developer, with 2+ years of IT experience building quality applications with all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as Planning, Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance of Enterprise Applications. Experience on Agile Projects and focus on TDD (Test Driven Development). A quick learner with wide knowledge in web development, capable of working in wide range of circumstances. Adept at prioritizing, tracking and completing tasks to accomplish project goals. Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer NOKIA January 2019 to Present • Involved in Developing Java Application with Full Software Development Cycle (SDLC) from Design to Deployment.  • Worked extensively on developing the backend REST API calls exposing the business services. Versioning and documenting the Rest services in WSO Product API manager.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a web page thus reducing bandwidth usage, load time, and add modal dialog in web pages to get user input requests.  • Implemented the Project structure based on Spring Framework pattern using spring boot and Spring Microservices Used Spring Core Annotations for Spring Dependency Injection and Spring MVC for REST APIs.  • Developed code to call the web service/APIs to fetch the data and populate on the UI using jQuery/AJAX.  • Worked on Oracle database for creating, deleting, upgrading and recovering the data.  • Used JUnit and Mockito frameworks for unit testing of the application and log4j for logging.  • Used git to upload day to day coding html web templates.  • Worked with Agile software life cycle methodologies and involved in Sprint planning's and daily Scrum meetings. Graduate Research & Teaching Assistant ( JAVA) Fairfield University January 2018 to December 2018 • Wrote course materials such as syllabi, homework assignments, and handouts.  • Developed and delivered engaging lectures to undergraduate and graduate students.  • Guided students in using technology while writing the code for JAVA, HTML Programs.  • Grading team Project and evaluate their performance. Full Stack Developer Infogen Software - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2015 to August 2016 • Developed JAVA applications utilizing XML, JSON, Restful-based web services, JavaScript, HTML, Angular JS and a Modern UI framework such as Bootstrap.  • Uses all aspects of Java Programming (object-oriented Programming), Skeleton framework in multiple environments (MySQL/PHP, WAMP, MAMP)  • Used spring framework provided JPA repository, CRUD Repository for Managing the Persistence the Java objects with Oracle objects.  • Analyzed SQL queries, stored procedures, Triggers and functions for the application in Oracle. Used SVN for version control, JIRA for bug and issue tracking.  • Used REST and SOAP for the development of the XML based applications.  • Wrote build & deployment scripts using Maven, shell scripts to build and deploy the application in JBoss Application Server.  • Creating class diagrams, sequence diagrams, Data Model and Object Model using Rational Rose Web Developer Intern Fratello Infotech - Hyderabad, Telangana March 2014 to April 2015 • Developed User Interface (UI) Applications and professional web applications using Web Standards, HTML/HTML5, XHTML, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery, JSON, and AJAX.  • Implemented MVC pattern in the application development using spring.  • Contributed to design and development of client and server database applications as a front end developer.  • Assisted in planning and implementing dynamic and online electronic commerce applications. Education M.S. in Software Engineering Fairfield University December 2018 Skills AJAX. (1 year), Bootstrap. (2 years), database (2 years), HTML5 (1 year), Java (2 years), JavaScript (2 years), JIRA (1 year), jQuery (1 year), JSON (2 years), Maven (1 year), MySQL (1 year), Oracle (1 year), PHP (1 year), REST (1 year), SOAP (1 year), SQL (1 year), Subversion (1 year), SVN (1 year), version control (1 year), web services (1 year) Additional Information Technical Skills  Languages: Java, J2EE, Hibernate, Spring, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, PHP,  PL/SQL, Python, C, C++, REST and SOAP Services.  Tools & Frameworks: Eclipse, Visual Studio, Eclipse, SharePoint, Apache, Sublime Text, Aptana Studio, IntelliJ,  JIRA, Jenkins, Maven.  Database: MySQL, Oracle, SQL-Server, MongoDB.  Version Control Tools: SVN, GIT.  Web/App Servers: SOAP, REST, AWS(Amazon Web Services), Web Logic, Apache Tomcat