Java Full stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Full stack Developer - High Mark Pittsburgh, PA ? Over 8+ years of strong software experience in design, development and deployment of web-based Client-Server business applications using OOP, Java/J2EE technologies.  ? Ability to efficiently translate algorithms, ideas and concepts to software applications.  ? Proficient in applying design patterns like MVC, Singleton, Session Facade, Service Locator, Visitor, Observer, Decorator, Front Controller, Data Access Object.  ? Expertise in design with Use Case, Sequence diagrams, Activity diagrams, Class diagrams with exposure to UML, tools like Rational Rose and use of Rational Unified Process (RUP).  ? Extensively worked on during my tenure in Software Development are AngularJS, PolymerJS, Spring MVC, Spring Integration, Spring Batch, Apache POI, Hibernate, RESTful Web services, and Databases like Oracle.  ? Extensive experience in developing scalable, reliable and efficient enterprise applications using Java, Spring, Struts, Hibernate, Web Services, RESTful, JSF, JDBC, JSP, Servlets, EJB, JMS, XML, XSLT, JAXB SQL,PL/SQL, Unix Shell scripting.  ? Good working experience in Web Designs which includes HTML5, HTML, XHTML XML CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery MeetingW3C standards and technologies like JAVA, J2EE (Servlets JSP, JDBC), Spring Frameworks, Junit, SOAP web services, Restful.  ? Expert Level Skills in Java, JDBC, JavaBeans, Spring Frameworks, Hibernate, Struts, JSP, JavaScript, JFC, Servlets, EJB, and GWT.  ? Extensive experience in HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript.  ? Expertise in using Design patterns and object oriented methodologies to design software for Mobile Application.  ? Worked with high volume and complex PL/SQLstored procedures and packages using Oracle SQL.  ? Possess expertise in designing and developing web and mobile applications using HTML 5, CSS3, Less, Sass, JavaScript, JQuery, nodeJs, AngularJS, ReactJS Skilled at progressing from problem statement to well documented designs.  ? Expertise in the implementation of Core Java concepts of Java, J2EE Technologies: JSP, Servlets,JSF, JSTL, EJB transaction implementation (CMP, BMP, Message-Driven Beans), JMS, Struts, Spring, Swing, Hibernate, Java Beans, JDBC, XML, Web Services, JNDI, Multi-Threading, Data structures etc.  ? Development of services that utilize AWS SDK's (Dynamo DB, Elastic Beanstalk, EC2, Lambda).  ? Implemented a DOJO front end for a Sales order processing applications built using DOJO Widgets.  ? Tested cases by using selenium test.  ? Proficient in implementation of frameworks like Struts, spring, JSF, AJAX frameworks (Rich Faces, MyFaces) and ORM frameworks like Hibernate.  ? Extensive experience in designing MongoDB multi-shared cluster and monitoring with MMS.  ? Focused on architecting NoSQL databases like Mongo, Cassandra and Cache database.  ? Expertise in XML technologies such as XSL, XSLT, XML schemas, XPath, XForms, XSL-FO and parsers like SAX/DOM.  ? Involved in CICD process using GIT, Jenkins job creation, Maven build and publish, and Fabric implementation.  ? Expertise in developing SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) and J2EE Web Services based on SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, JAX-WS, JAXB, JAX-RPC using tools like Apache Axis.  ? Knowledge of XML and related technologies like XSL, XSLT and parsers like JAXP (SAX, DOM) and JAXB.  ? Have good experience on using GIT, SVN and CVS for project management and version management.  ? Proven experience with Application Servers like IBM WebSphere6.x/5.x/7.0, Oracle 11/BEA WebLogic 9.x/8.x/7.x/6.x, JBoss and Tomcat5.x/4.x/3/x.  ? Developed security to the micro services using zuul proxy using authentication and authorization with Active directory and Rest API service.  ? Proven experience in writing Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Functions and Packages using TOAD.  ? Excellent experience with major relational databases - Oracle 11g/10g/9i, SQL Server 2000/2005/2008, DB2, MySQL.  ? Experience in upgrading and migrating various versions of MongoDB on different platforms.  ? Strong experience with MongoDB development (reports, schema design, map reduce functions) and migrations from SQL relational databases.  ? Extensive development experience in different IDE's like Eclipse 3.x, Jbuilder 9.x/8.x, WSAD 5.x, IBM RAD and AltovaXMLSpy.  ? Worked on micro services by using Spring Cloud with Netflix and Eureka.  ? Used Web Sphere Application Server, Web Logic Application Server, Jbossand Apache Tomcat in all my projects and successfully deployed and compiled many of the applications on them.  ? Expert level skills on JQuery, JavaScript, VBScript, Perl, AJAX, Adobe Flex, ActionScript, JSON, HTML, DHTML, CSS, Tiles, Tag Libraries.  ? Extensive experience in using Amazon Web Services like RDS,EC2,Redshift,SQS,SNS,Cloud Watch and S3  ? Experience in developing Web-Centric applications using AngularJS, BackboneJS, ExtJS, NodeJS, JavaScript, JQuery, and CSS3.  ? Hands on experience with build tools like ANT, Maven and logging tools like Log4J.  ? Expertise in unit-testing with JUnit using tools like JMeter.  ? Used Spring Boot to provide defaults for code and annotation configuration to quickly start the application.  ? Created Java J2EE application to View Data in MongoDB.  ? Experience in Agile software development process, Test Driven Development and Scrum methodologies.  ? Experience in Developing GUIs using Eclipse RCP/SWT and Core Java Design patterns.  ? Experience in using Maven and ANT for build automation.  ? Knowledge on Build tool Jenkins with configuring check styles, Test coverage.  ? Experienced withSplunk tool for production support.  ? Part of Scrum, Sprint review, Retrospection and Virtual Closure meetings as a part of AGILE.  ? Excellent at understanding new technologies and capable of implementing without conventional training.  ? Used TFS for version control during development and maintenance.  ? Strong Analytical and programming skills in using technology to develop effective complex business solutions.  ? Excel under pressure and thrive in dynamic environments. Comfortable with ambiguity and multitasking. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Full stack Developer High Mark - Pittsburgh, PA June 2017 to Present Description: HM Health Solutions Inc. is a business unit of the Highmark Health enterprise which provides comprehensive and integrated suite of solutions to optimize payer and provider systems for health insurance plans' core functions such as benefit design, member enrolment, claims processing and customer service. Capabilities include: Enterprise Application Solutions, Business Process Management Solutions, Data Hosting Solutions, Infrastructure Management Solutions, and Print Management Solutions. Through an aligned independent relationship model, HM Health Solutions delivers significant value for its partners, including the delivery of increased speed-to-market capabilities, cutting edge enhancements and lower operational costs to help offset the ever-increasing pressures and challenges of today's health insurance industry.  Responsibilities:  • Defined and constructed layers, server-side objects and client-side interfaces based on J2EE design patterns, Developed and implemented Swing, spring and J2EE based MVC (Model-View-Controller) framework for the application.  • Designing and implementing the User Interface using OO JavaScript, Ember JS, HTML, CSS/CSS3, SASS and AJAX.  • Designed Prototype and project layout skeletons using AngularJS, ReactJS, JQuery and CSS/LESS and HTML5.  • Involved in designing and developed presentation layer using JSF, Ajax, and JQuery and third party libraries.  • Implemented the associated business modules integration using spring, and Hibernate data mapping.  • Developed and maintained automated regression test cases in Selenium Web Driver using Java programming language.  • Worked on writing Perl scripts covering data feed handling, implementing business logic, communicating with web-services through SOAPLite module and WSDL.  • Developed classes using core java (multithreading, concurrency, memory management) and some spring IOC.  • Proficient in NoSQL DB such as Apache Cassandra DB, Mongo DB.  • Involved in the configuration of Spring, Micro Services Framework and Hibernate mapping tool.  • Used spring dependency injection, annotations and Spring MVC components to implement business layer and navigation part of application.  • Implemented the database connectivity using Oracle 11i database as backend.  • Experience in Technical and Functional side of the Team Foundation Server Components (Source Control, Work Items, TFS Builds, and Reporting).  • Working closely with Web Administrators to setup an automated deployment using SVN and Git Tools.  • Struts Tag Libraries and Struts Tiles Framework were used in addition to JSP, HTML5, AJAX and CSS in developing the presentation layer.  • Utilized AWS Lambda platform to upload data into AWS S3 buckets and to trigger other Lambda functions.  • Developed JSPs to dynamically generate HTML5 and display the data to the client side. Java Mail API was used to notify the user of the status and completion of their project.  • Have used AJAX to retrieve data from server synchronously in the background without interfering with the display and existing page in an interactive way.  • Developed several REST web services which produces both XML and JSON to perform tasks, leveraged by both web and mobile applications.  • Created database objects like Stored Procedures, Tables, Views, Sequences, Cursors, Packages and Triggers.  • RESTful web services using Jersey for JAX-RS implementation.  • Worked on Rest Web services as well as Node Rest framework for backend services, used Mongo DB (NoSQL) for database services.  • Used various jQuery and Bootstrap plug-in like date picker, Bootstrap selectors.  • Exposed and consumed SOAP based Web Services to communicate between systems.  • GUI design and development using Java Swing, JFC Used for open source web testing.  • Heavily used SOAP UI Pro version for testing the Web Services.  • Database development required creation of new tables, PL/SQL stored procedures, functions, views, indexes and constraints, triggers and required SQL tuning to reduce the response time in the application.  • Developed several SOAP based JAX-WSWeb Service interfaces for integrating multiple systems, code re-usability.  • JBoss Application server implementation, support, workload management and performance tuning including Web server setup configuration with JBoss App Server.  • Wrote SQL queries, stored procedures and enhanced performance by running explain plans.  • Expertise in using Design patterns and object oriented methodologies to design software for mobile phones (mobile application).  • Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information such as payment status report.  • Used Log4j framework to log/track application.  • Deployed Application instance on JBoss and WebLogic Server.  • Developed the Web application using Spring MVC, Ext-JS, Html, JSP and JavaScript.  • Used multithreading in programming to improve overall performance.  • Developed various helper classes needed using multi-threading.  • Created and configured new JIRA projects and worked with departments to maintain existing JIRA projects.  • Developed the data access classes using JDBC and SQL queries  • Used log4j for logging and SVN for version control.  • Worked on Spring boot framework.  • Brief experience on implementing the AngularJS in creating animations based on CSS classes for a new requirement surfaced for the client.  • Used JavaScript, jQuery for user interactions in pages. Creating a responsive web application integrating Twitter Bootstrap with Angular JS and media queries.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST API s and Spring Boot for micro-services.  • Used XStream API to transfer data back and forth between Spring MVC and Ext JS.  • Custom Node.js proxy used to simulate API responses before client implementation was complete, and to proxy requests to finished client APIs, handling authentication, custom headers, virtual application root, etc.  • Build features using TDD (Test driven development) and Domain driven design in DevOps environment with continuous integration, regression and deployment.  • Developed Unit test cases using JUnit, Mockito and Easy mock.  • Developed Maven scripts and developed builds using Maven and continuous integration servers like Jenkins.  • Worked with high volume and complex PL/SQLstored procedures and packages using TOAD.  • Consumed Web Servicesfor getting the credit card information from third party application.  • Developed, Tested and Debugged the Java, JSP and EJB components using Eclipse RCP.  • Written highly referenced blog posts on Error Handling in Scala and Problems Scala Fixes.  • Oversaw all aspects of testing JUnit, FIT, and SIT, End to End, Regression, User acceptance and Performance.  • Used Git as Version Control System for the application.  • Use of data structures and algorithms for time and memory complexity reduction  • Tested cases by using selenium Test.  • Implemented all enterprise integration patterns by using Camel.  • Used to test performance both on static and dynamic resources using JMeter.  Environment:  Java, J2EE,JDK 1.6, RCP, WebLogic, AWS SDK, Ext JS, Git, Swing, JFC, Perl, Spring 4.x, Spring Boot, AWS SNS/SQS, Hibernate 4.x,Core Java, SOAP/Rest, Web Services, JavaScript, UML, Web Services, HTML5, CSS, SASS, RAD 7,WAS 8 WSDL, JIRA 5.x/6.x, JAXB, Linux, JAX-WS,JAX RPC, JMS, JSF,UNIX, AKKA, NOSQL(MongoDB), Selenium, Camel, Angular JS, BackboneJS, Scala IDE, Ilog, Drools, TFS, Micro Services, JBoss 3.0, AngularJS, AJAX,Apache JMeter, JQuery, JUnit, Maven, Oracle 10g. Full stack Developer First Citizens Bank - Raleigh, NC May 2016 to May 2017 Description: It will take more energy, ingenuity and trust to fulfil our aspirations for the future. And GE Oil & Gas is ready to do its part. We've been an industry leader through constantly evolving energy sector dynamics and increasingly complex infrastructure challenges across the globe for more than 120 years. We understand the entire energy value chain and know that oil and gas will continue to play a critical role. That's why our technologies extract, transport and refine oil and gas with productivity and the environment in mind.    Responsibilities:  • Extensively used various Spring Framework modules like MVC, Auto Wiring, Spring Security, and AOP.  • Experience with Spring 4 MVC and Spring MVC with REST integration and JSON.  • Skilled at analysing and solving browser compatibility challenges and possesses ability to maintain consistency and well commented HTML and CSS mark-up. Good working experience in Web Designs which includes HTML5, HTML, XHTML XML CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery.  • Created and injected spring services, springcontrollers and DAOs to achieve dependency injection and to wire objects of business classes.  • Spring MVC Framework IOC (Inversion of Control) design pattern is used to have relationships between application components. It is also used to separate the application configuration and dependency specification from the actual application code.  • Created continuous integration builds using Jenkins and deployed on app server.  • Good knowledge of latest version of object oriented JavaScript Libraries like polymer.js, Angular.js, Require.js, Node.js, React.js, Bootstrap, plygrid framework.  • And had good experience with predix UI cloud based platform (PaaS). Predix UI makes it easy to create powerful, user-friendly web applications with components that just work.  • Good experience in using Amazon Web Services (AWS) and AWS SNS/SQS for delivering messages.  • Extensively used spring framework and Apache CXF for producing SOAP and REST web services as a part of the project development and good knowledge on Amazon Web Services.  • The Predix UI components are framework agnostic - they can fit into many existing JavaScript web applications (e.g. Angular, React, Ember, polymer), or serve as a starting point for a new project.  • Responsible for Creating custom, general use modules and components which extend the elements and modules of core AngularJS, PolymerJS.  • Application is Open Source on GitHub and developed using Eclipse, GWT and GAE for cloud based backend data.  • Programmed the Event handling for DOJO Widgets to accept user inputs and validate it.  • Responsible for validating user actions on the client side and provided responsive feedback using PolymerJS, AngularJS, and predix components.  • Implementing Web services using JSON.  • Experience in upgrading and migrating various versions of MongoDB on different platforms.  • Developed various generic JavaScript functions used for validations.  • Designed and developed UI capabilities and J2EE server based services.  • Create and maintain web pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQUERY, Java, J2EE and also responsible for Designing of Web pages including Ajax controls and XML.  • Using GIT for Source Control and Version Management.  • Experience in designing web applications employing Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques and Search Engine Strategies (SES).  • Applied advanced HTML, JavaScript, and CSS to deliver cutting-edge user interfaces using material design components in Polymer JS.  • Experience with Responsive Web Design, Bootstrap and Plygrid framework.  • High level of expertise in CSS pixel-level layout, Consistency with browsers, Version and Platform Independence.  • Focused on Test Driven Development (TDD) thereby creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality before actually writing the functionality.  • Worked on the latest version of object oriented JavaScript Libraries like PolymerJS,AngularJS, NodeJS, Bootstrap.  • Expert in working with cutting edge front-end technologies/ framework and libraries like JQuery, Prototype,(X)HTML, DHTML, OO JavaScript, JSON, DOM, CSS, XML/XSLT, AJAX.  • Used JavaScript testing frameworks, Jasmine, Karma.  • Followed agile development and consistently delivered new features on time during sprints.  • Communicated updates in daily scrum meetings using Rally software.  • Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly.  • Extensively used Ajax calls to send parameters and fetch data based on the user-triggered events.  • Manipulated data to both send and fetch data from the server through GET, DELETE and POST requests.  • Used micro services to develop the application through API's that are not dependent on specific language.  • Used various Core Java concepts such as Multithreading, Exception Handling, Collection APIs to implement various features and enhancements.  • Used JSF for building user interfaces by using reusable UI components.  • Regularly worked with the MEAN stacks and used GIT daily on a Mac OS.  • And used SOCOCO for the daily standups, power programming, and team communication.  • Handled response data from RESTfulweb services using XML, JSON and JQuery to update UI. Interacted with java controllers (JQuery, Ajax, and JSON to write/read data from back end systems).    Environment:  Polymer.js, HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, RequireJS, AJAX, Responsive Web Design, JQuery UI, JSON, JavaScript, SASS, LESS, Node.js, Express, mongo DB, J2EE, JSP, Oracle 11g, Eclipse 3.5, Oracle, Junit 4.4, Agile methodology, SVN, JSP, Apache Tomcat, IntelliJ, Ant 1.8, Agile Scrum. Sr. Java Developer General Electric Oil & Gas - New Orleans, LA November 2015 to April 2016 Description: First Citizens Bank is one of the largest banking institutions in the world. Bank offers various financial and banking services to its customers. Worked on application named Access portal. It is a part of online banking that allows a customer to view quick summary of transactions and account details. It also shows mutual funds associated with account.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the design and development phases of Agile Software Development.  ? Analyzed current Mainframe system and designed new GUI screens.  ? Developed the application using 3 Tier Architecture i.e. Presentation, Business and Data Integration layers in accordance with the customer/client standards.  ? Automate report generation in MongoDB using JavaScript, shell scripting, java.  ? Played a vital role in Scala framework for web based applications  ? Used Filenet for Content Management and for streamlining Business Processes.  ? Created Responsive Layouts for multiple devices and platforms using foundation framework.  ? Implemented printable chart report using HTML5, CSS3 and jQuery.  ? Applied JavaScript for client side form validation.  ? Worked on UNIX, LINUX to move the project into production environment.  ? Created Managed Beans for handling JSF pages and include logic for processing of the data on the page.  ? Used Object/Relational mapping tool Hibernate to achieve object to database table persistency.  ? Worked with Core Java to develop automated solutions to include web interfaces using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and Web services.  ? Created simple user interface for application's configuration system using MVC design patterns and swing framework.  ? Experienced in build, deploy multi module applications using Maven, ANT and CI servers like Jenkins.  ? Developed web GUI involving HTML, Node JS, Java Script under MVC design pattern andTest Driven Development (TDD).  ? Creation of WebLogic domains and setup Admin & Managed servers for JAVA/J2EE applications on Non Production and Production environments.  ? Involved in the configuration of Spring Framework and Hibernate mapping tool.  ? Monitoring WebLogic/JBoss Server health and security.  ? Creation of Connection Pools, Data Sources in WebLogic console.  ? Implemented Hibernate for Database Transactions on DB2.  ? Involved in configuring hibernate to access database and retrieve data from the database  ? Written Web Services (JAX-WS) for external system via SOAP/HTTP call.  ? Used Log4j framework to log/track application.  ? Wrote AngularJS services to consume Restful web service to load data.  ? Involved in developing SQL queries, stored procedures, and functions.  ? Team Foundation Server (TFS) administration; support and maintain version control  ? Creating and updating existing build scripts using Ant for deployment Tested and implemented/deployed application on WAS 6.1 server.  ? Used Rational Clear Case for Version Control.    Environment:FileNet, IBM RAD 6.0, Scala, Java 1.5, JSP, Servlets, Core Java, Spring, Swing, Hibernate, JSF, ICE Faces, Hibernate, HTML , CSS, JavaScript, NodeJs, UNIX, Web Services- SOAP, WAS 6.1, XML, IBM WebSphere 6.1, Rational Clear Case, Log 4j, IBM DB2. Sr. Java Developer Stockton Telecom - Irving, TX July 2014 to October 2015 Description:  The goal of the project was to develop the Access Network System which monitors call rating, billing and other telecom related processes. Part of a team developing an application for selling calling cards developed using the J2EE specification. Project designed and implemented according to MVC model architecture. The system can also take necessary actions according to the outputs of those processes from the log file.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in creating Use cases, Class diagrams and Interaction Diagrams using MicrosoftVisio 2007.  • Designed the UML diagrams based on the OOAD principles.  • Developed the application under J2EE architecture using JSP, Struts, Spring, JavaBeans, and iBATIS Data mapper.  • Developed GUI screens using HTML, Java script.  • Developed the Actionclasses, Actionforms and Action servlet for Web tier.  • Used AJAX in user validation and suggestion list and to display dialog boxes.  • Sever side validations are done using Struts Validator Plug-In.  • Implemented SOA architecture with web services using SOAP, WSDL and XML.  • Developed Web Interface using Struts, Java Script, HTML and CSS.  • Developed presentation screens by using JSP, HTML and JavaScript.  • Used Spring Framework and created the Dependency injection for the Action classes using ApplicationContext.xml.  • Worked on Rest based Web services for Mule ESB flows.  • Extensively used Mule ESB and MMC Server for application deployments.  • Developed the Business logic on the web tier using EJB Stateless Session beans.  • Worked on MQ with J2EE technologies on the WebSphere MQ.  • Designed and implementing Session Facade, Service Locator and DTO design patterns.  • Used WebServices for getting Customer information and the plans he is eligible.  • Developed a RESTful service to provide all the CRUD capabilities.  • Unit testing and system integration testing of the developed code.  • Developed an API to get the Service Level Validations from SAM.  • Providing fixes to the issues identified in testing phase.  • Analyzed, designed and implemented DAO pattern for accessing Database using connection pool.  • Worked on different ways to increase performance of the Application through use of methodologies like asynchronous calls to database, stored procedures in place of Dynamic SQL, etc.  • Involved in configuration of XML flat file and parsing the XML file using the SAX Parser.  • Involved in creation of Unit Test Cases and Actual Unit Testing for POJO's using Junit.  • Implemented JReport for annual report generation with charts.  • Implemented applications with support for i18n (internationalization).  • Worked on Reconciliation, which involves in providing root cause analysis and data fixes.  • Used VSS for version control and source code management  • Extensively involved in designing UI, reporting and specification documentation.  • Responsible for the user module, setting rights and permission to users through the keywords set with database and testing.  Environment: JDK1.5, JSP, JSF,Struts1.2, iBATIS, Spring, HTML, javascript, AJAX, CSS, XML, EJB, PL/SQL, IBM WebSphere Application server 5, Mule ESB, JUnit, SOA, Web Services(JAX-WS),VSS,SAX Parser, Oracle 9i. Java Developer State farm Insurance - Bloomington, IL January 2012 to June 2014 Description: Customer Transfer is UI and Back end based application. It can be used as a customer can transfer the agent for his State Farm Insurance policies. Customer can transfer his agents only when customer moved to different state in USA or the customer don't like his agent. When an agent tries to transfer an agent for a customer first agents must retrieve the list of Insurance policies and his current agent details. Finally Transfer REST service being called and do the real transfer of agents for the customer and finding new insurance agent to the customer with defined web services. It includes all policies depends on the customer's requirement and rendering the complete transferring to the agent as well as customer.  Responsibilities:  • Developed and deployed Java REST web services using Spring Framework.  • Converted the mock-ups into hand-written HTML, AJAX, XML and JSON.  • Designed and implemented Spring ORM module to integrate Hibernate  • Implemented SOA architecture with web services using SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and XML  • Used JUnit Testing Framework for performing Unit testing  • Deployed Application instance on JBoss and WebLogic Server.  • Designed and Implemented User Interface in Model-View-Controller Architecture, which accomplishes a tight and neat co-ordination of Spring MVC, JSP, Servlets.  • Responsible for writing detail design documents and class diagrams and sequence diagrams.  • Developed Custom tag libraries to separate presentation and processing logic.  • Developed web components using MVC pattern under Struts framework  • Prepared Unit test cases for existing functionality as per the requirement and execute the same.  • Used WS-Security for authenticating the SOAP messages along with encryption and decryption.  • Designed and developed a REST Web Services using Jersey framework builds on JAX-RS.  • Was involved in the preparation of the software requirements and Component design documents, Component Specification Document.  • Developed Custom tag libraries to separate presentation and processing logic.  • Developed web components using MVC pattern under Struts framework  • Prepared Unit test cases for existing functionality as per the requirement and execute the same.  • Developed SQL as well as stored procedures to interact with Sybase and MySQL.  • Involved in Core Java coding by using Java APIs such as Collections, Multithreading, Exception Handling, Generics, Enumeration, and Java I/O to fulfil the implementation of business logic.  • Worked on core java, using file operations to read system file (downloads) and to present on JSP.  • Involved in developing SQL queries, stored procedures, and functions.  • Test Case Authoring, Execution and Defect reporting in the TFS.  • Good experience in IDE's like Eclipse and NetBeans  • Business level validations were done using Struts Validator framework.  • Implemented Action Classes and server side validations for account activity, payment history and Transactions.  • Developed Struts Action classes using Struts controller component.  • Used Cascading Style Sheet (CSS) in web pages to separate presentation from structure.  • Designed and developed J2EE application using Servlets, JSP, JavaBeans and EJB.  • Implemented applications in JavaScript, and MySQL.  • Entity Beans used for accessing data from the SQL Server database.  • Used JSF to reduce the effort in creating and maintaining this entire application.  • Involved in the building Maven POM files and Maven testing.  • Involved in writing the associations for the query in mapping xml files in Hibernate.  • Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information such as payment status report.  • Worked on the Spring MVC Restful Web services, exposing services and consuming the third party  • Worked exclusively on MDB, Messaging Queues andPosting Error Messages to the Queue.  • Continuous integration to build the project using Jenkins with Maven Builder.  • Developed UML models consisting of Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams using Rational Rose software.  • Used facade design pattern for implementation.  • CVS was used for project management and version management.  • Designed configuration XML Schema for the application.  • Strong experience in implementing the Web Services (WSDL using SOAP protocol, JAXB, JAX-RS, RESTful).  • Involved in system design and development using Collections and Multithreading for the action classes.  • Used SOAP for Web Services by exchanging XML data between applications over HTTP.  • WSDL was used for publishing Web Service interfaces.    Environment:  JSP, AJAX, Struts framework, Hibernate Framework, JSF, Spring Framework, Log4j, Java Script, HTML, Oracle 9i, SQL, PL/SQL, Web Sphere, WSAD, JSTL, Struts tags, Junit, Mockito, SQL, Struts, CSS. Java, J2EE Developer ZenSoftech Pvt. Ltd May 2009 to December 2011 Description: Zen Softech Private Limited is a Software Consulting and Training Firm. Company is set up to explore, develop, and produce the software solutions for organizations by integrating and optimizing the collective output of people and technology with respect to available resources.  Zen is currently involved in Education and Training in Object Oriented Programming using Java. Zen has a very dedicated team of software engineers and trainers having expertise in Java based programming. Zen has got its own in-house training facility, and also provides corporate training. All students are well placed in local and international IT industry.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Agile development process based on iterative development.  • Design development of presentation layers using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Worked with System Analyst and the project team to understand the requirements.  • Developed web pages applying best standards.  • Designed dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML, DHTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed UI using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JSP for interactive cross browser functionality and complex user interface.  • Used Spring Framework.  • Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards.  • Implemented AJAX to speed up web application.  • Applied jQuery scripts for basic animation and end user screen customization purposes.  • Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly.  • Extensively used Ajax calls to send parameters and fetch data based on the user-triggered events.  • Manipulated data to both send and fetch data from the server through GET and POST requests.  • Developed print functionality and download to Excel functionality.  • Designed CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible on all the major browsers like Safari, Chrome, Firefox and IE.  • Implemented various Validation Controls for form validation and implemented custom validation controls with JavaScript validation controls.  • Used SVN as version control.    Environment: HTML, XML and SQL, CSS, JavaScript, JQUERY, JSP, AJAX, JAVA, Servlets, JDBC, spring services, SVN. Education Bachelor's Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFILE:    Programming Languages Java, J2EE, C, C++, SQL, PL/SQL, XML.  JEE/J2EE Technologies Servlets, JSP, JSF, EJB, JDBC, JMS, JNDI, LDAP, JAXB, JAX-WS, JSTL, Design patterns, JPA.  Design & IDE Tools Net Beans, Eclipse, Web logic Workshop, IntelliJ, Rational Rose, STS 3.x, Atom.  Web Technologies HTML, DHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript.  Application/Web Servers Web Sphere Application Server 6.1, Apache Tomcat 6.0, JBoss 4.x/6.0, BEA Web Logic 9.x/10.x.  Operating Systems Windows /Unix /Macintosh, Windows 98/2000/ XP.  Database Oracle 9i/10g/11g,NoSQL, Mango DB, MySQL, PostgreSQL, DB2 9.x/8.0.  Database Design & Object Oriented / Analysis & Design UML, OOAD design patterns, ER - diagrams  Web Services JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, SOAP, RESTful, WSDL, UDDI.  Frameworks Struts 2.x/1.x, Spring 3.x/4.x, Hibernate 4.x/3.x, JSF 1.2/2.0, iBatis, Spring Batch, Spring Boot, Maven, Bower, NPM  Scripting JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, Polymer JS, AJAX, Unix Shell.  XML Technologies XML, XSLT, DOM, DTD, SAX.  Testing/Debug JUnit, Log4j, Jasmine,karma.  Version Control Tools CVS, SVN, GIT, Rational Clear Case.