Sr. Java Developer-US Mgd/rsc Sr.<span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>-US Mgd/rsc Sr. Java Developer-US Mgd/rsc - Wells Fargo Charlotte, NC Work Experience Sr. Java Developer-US Mgd/rsc Wells Fargo July 2017 to Present Sr. Java Developer/Architect-US Mgd Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC July 2017 to Present Consultant    Environment:  CoreJava,SpringMVC,Hibernate,Webservices SOAP ,Filenet,MQ,XML,Junit,SQLDeveloper,Oracle,Jboss,Adobe templates,itext,Anthill,GIT,Maven,Windows,Unix,Jenkin,ALM,Wells Frameworks - Wachovia,infrared360.    Description:  Trade Works- is an SOA application that creates a new strategic trade services platform for the global financial institutions and trade services(GFITS) group, it provides an integrated global system for all wellsfargo and in sourcing trade services processing sites and serves as a base for the full hosted outsourcing as an application service provider.  The primary trade services products supported are-Commercial letter of credit, Standby letter of credit/Guarantees,Documentry collections,Clean Collections, Open account collections, Bankers Acceptance,Reimbursements,Stemship indemnity and Trade advances, it deployed as a single instance that contains integrated workflow and imaging processes that provides operation efficiencies through high levels of straight through processing and ensures that all functions and features are readily available to all customers processed through all wellsfargo sites.  CEO Trade - is an alternative to traditional letters of credit, open account programs managed through online CEO trade platform allow importers to reduce costs and increase efficiency on cross-border trade transactions. Open account trade helps both importers and their suppliers because it streamlines the complete procure-to-pay transaction cycle and automates the documents review and approval process. Documentary collections provide for control of the shipping documents through the buyers and sellers banks and help facilitate pay when the buyer pays or agrees to pay for the goods. With proper approval, collection instructions and bills of exchange may be created online to expedite the submission of collections documents.    • Responsible for requirement analysis along with Business Analyst on each release.  • Responsible to coordinate with TA to design Application, batch and service components.  • Responsible to define the API need to be implement as part of service oriented architecture.  • Implementing requirements using Core Java,SpringMVC,hibernate,oracle,Mq and client frameworks  • Responsible on implementing batch process to perform required service calls and data persistence.  • Applied SpringMVC framework to enable the interactions between business layer.  • Responsible for implementing sql queries and executing in lower environment.  • Responsible to interact with Service consuming interface teams GUS , as part of integration and testing.  • Responsible for code checking using GIT version control Pull request.  • Responsible for scheduling batch jobs using AntHill.  • Responsible for coding as per the client standards and code review.  • Used ALM to monitor and manage requirements and task status.  • Responsible for consuming SOAP based web services for Data Exchange.  • Responsible for POM dependencies configuration for Maven build.  • Responsible for build and deploy the code using Jenkins and JBoss, coordinate and support the team for production deploys process.  • Responsible to support continuous integration using Jenkins pipelines.  • Responsible for bug tracking in ALM and essential code change for Fix.  • Responsible for supporting production issue logged in ALM on rotation basis.  • Responsible to manage PCR and support for deployment and implementation changes in production environment. Application Development-lead Consultant JPMC-Chase February 2016 to June 2017 Sr. Application Developer-lead JPMC-Chase - Columbus, OH February 2016 to June 2017 Consultant    Environment:  ESB,STS,Corejava,SpringMVC,SpringBoot,Jquery,Webservices SOAP ,Json,XML,Junit,SQLDeveloper,Oracle,Tomcat,FastDD,Maven,Unix,Jenkin,ALM,Windows.  Description:    CWMT-(Contingent Worker Management Tool) is middleware architecture application is the development of procurement services integration services. Application middleware to support integrations between beeline and JPMC internal systems. Application manage IDs related contingent workers through downstream automation.  Middleware will own the process of correlating/matching an identity in beeline to a standard id record in ID vault, and will store the standard ID for the record in database. The added CWOC resource matching capability will greatly reduce the number of duplicate SIDs and other data related issues. After going through proper vetting and risk assessment, the middleware will provide a database repository that will act as a source for Beeline managed contingent worker data related to ID management. The middleware will provide a data extract where a record will exist for each assignment worked on by Beeline managed contingent workers. Each record will list the corresponding standard ID, and last update timestamp.    • Responsible for requirement analysis and communicating with Business Analyst.  • Responsible to coordinate with TA to design Application, batch and service components.  • Responsible to define the API need to be implement depends on project Architecture.  • Implementation of integration service provider using SpringMVC and SOAP service.  • Applied SpringMVC framework to enable the interactions between business layer.  • Responsible for adding required entries in spring boot properties file.  • Responsible for implementing Annotation based Java components IOC/AOP .  • Responsible to interact with Service consuming interface teams Beeline, Middleware , as part of integration and testing.  • Responsible for coding as per the client standards and code review.  • Used JIRA to monitor and manage user stories and task status.  • Responsible for producing SOAP based web services for Data Exchange.  • Responsible for POM dependencies configuration for Maven build.  • Responsible for build and deploy the code using Jenkins and Tomcat, coordinate and support the team for production deploy process.  • Responsible to support continuous integration using Jenkins pipelines.  • Responsible for bug tracking in ALM and essential code change for Fix.  • Responsible for supporting production issue logged in ALM on rotation basis.  • Using Star Team for Source Control and Version Management.  • Responsible to manage ITSM and support for deployment and implementation changes in production environment. Sr. Java Lead TD Bank - Charlotte, NC March 2015 to January 2016 Organization - Cognizant    Environment:  SpringMVC,AngularJs,Jsp,Webservices REST ,Json,XML,MQ,Junit,JBossIDE,JBoss,Oracle,SOAPUI,ALM,GIT,SqlQuerrel,Windows  Description:  Credit Union Branch Services (CUBS) web portal, which allows Credit Union Branch personnel to access functionality and tools that will allow them to work within credit card applications. CUBS portal will replace the current eCUETS portal. The intended users will be both in CU branches and CU call centers. Engages in issuing credit union MasterCard credit cards to credit unions,Caisses popularizes, cardholders, merchants, and other organizations in Canada.  Application provides the functionality to get all card related and user information. User can get the Individual and organization/s application details, card information, able to patch or update the card information and delete the applicable details from back end as applicable. Allow to access the other functionalities like cardholder Information, card documentation, card communications, System status admin, view reports.  Responsibilities:  • Participate in requirement analysis of the applications along with business owners.  • Responsible for converting the requirements into Technical Design Document for implementation.  • Responsible for Java coding using Spring MVC and Restful services and XML.  • Responsible for implementing UI validations using AngularJS/ Java Script  • Responsible for implementing spring configurations .xml for java components.  • Responsible for implementing Annotation based Java components IOC/AOP .  • Responsible for implementing Jax-RS based web services (REST), JMS, WSDL for Data Exchange  • Responsible to verify stability, interoperability, portability, security and scalability of java system architecture.  • Responsible for server-side implementation on JBoss Application Server.  • Select apt design solutions and ensure compatibility of system components working with team.  • Responsible to evaluate current or emerging technologies to consider monetary factors of java program.  • Responsible to ensure compliance with established architecture, design patterns, policies, standards and best practices.  • Responsible for POM dependencies configuration for Maven build.  • Responsible for Junit testing and coordinating with testing team during testing in different environments.  • Responsible for bug tracking in ALM and essential code change for Fix.  • Responsible for conducting , coordinating for getting sign off for User Acceptance Testing (UAT).  Used GIT for Source Control and Version Management. Sr.Associate-Project in Cognizant CTS October 2007 to January 2016 Java Architect TIAA-CREF - Charlotte, NC February 2014 to March 2015 Organization - Cognizant    Environment:  SpringMVC,RESTWebservices,FTL,Jquery,Jaxb,XML,Junit,WebLogic,DB2,SpringToolSuite(STS),RationalTeamConcert(RTC),Windows,Jazz,SOAPUI,ALM,Putty.  Description:  Retirement@Work is a product that provides a convenient way for users to submit and review their online salary deferrals.Retirement@Work site supports the multi-vendor coordinator (MVC) model where clients engage in a full suite of multi-vendor services, including managing incoming contributions, splitting contributions by vendor and disbursing contributions to the vendors.Retirement@Work,helps the user to save for their retirement by deferring part of their pay into an investment plan for the future. User employer selects the types of plans and features, including the contribution schedule, investment choices, and income options and vesting rules. User can choose how much to invest, how to allocate their contributions, and name their beneficiaries. Employer offers one or more plans designed to help them to reach their retirement savings goals, through Plans and Investments Choices. User can choose investments in the plan that suit with their time horizon, investment objective, and risk tolerance. Allows the user to specify how their contributions are to be allocated among those investments and beneficiaries.  Responsibilities:  • Developed Retirement@Work application using SpringMVC, Jquery and Web services.  • Worked in a Scrum Agile process with two week iterations delivering new features as part of Stories.  • Used SpringMVC framework to enable the interactions between View layer  • Responsible for implementing Annotation based Java components IOC/AOP .  • Responsible to interact with Backend teams, as part of integration.  • Client side validations using JQuery.  • Responsible for coding as per the client standards and code review.  • Used JIRA to monitor and manage user stories and defects  • Responsible for consuming Jax-RS based Rest services for Data Exchange.  • Responsible for POM dependencies configuration for Maven build.  • Responsible for build and deploy the code in development environment, and coordinate and guide the team for production process.  • Responsible for bug tracking in ALM and essential code change for Fix.  Used RTC(Rational Team Concert) for Source Control and Version Management. Onsite Project Lead Ally Bank - Charlotte, NC March 2013 to February 2014 Organization - Cognizant    Environment:  Spring,Jsp,Angular JS,ejb, Java,SOAP Webservices,Oracle,XML,VSS,Jaxb,Windows,RAD,ALM,Jenkins,ShellScript.  Description:  "Ally Online Banking Application" provides the user to access bank account information and allow to view and initiate transactions. Transfer module, use to make transfer, edit and cancel the transfers through mobile application. User can be able to do transfer within the internal accounts or external accounts. Module allows the user to do recurring transfers based on different frequency. Activity will gives the information about the status of the transfer initiated. Through edit transfer user can able to change the transaction which is in-process, and cancel the transfer if user do not want to process the transaction.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for implementing transfers module using Spring and SOAP web services.  • Used SpringMVC framework to enable the interactions between View layer.  • Responsible for consuming SOAP based Web services for Data Exchange  • Responsible for implementing and validating UI using Angular JS.  • Client side validations using Java Script.  • Responsible to implement Java Pre and Post processor and integrating UI with web services.  • Implemented DAO design patterns  • Responsible for building utilities and re-usable code which could be used by the entire development team.  • Provided extensive pre-delivery support using Bug Fixing and Code Reviews.  • Responsible to support production deployment and coordinating with deployment team.  • To provide detailed estimate to business team on issue with the probable solution.  • Closely work with the users to understand the system change and develop solution as per requirement.  • Coordinate with non-technical users and resolve design and business issues.  • Used VSS(Visual source safe) for Source Control and Version Management. ADM Onsite Project Lead MetLife February 2011 to March 2013 Organization - Cognizant    Environment: Jsp,Struts,JS,Ejb,Webservices,Hibernate,Putty,WebSphere6,DB2,RAD,NetBeans,BuildForge,StartTeam,Quality Center QC ,SOAPUI,Windowsxp,ShellScript.  Description:  AOC Agency Office Cashiering is a new payment processing and remittance system is being introduced to MetLife. It provides a single payment system for the Enterprise that will accommodate the remittance of money collected for all products. The goal is to provide a means to update Company records with the remittance information the same day they are received and expedite the depositing of funds.  System is user-friendly, intranet-based application. Remittances, including advance payments, placing, subsequent and miscellaneous payments received from representatives and policyholders will be processed through the Agency Office. Company records and suspense files will be updated overnight. Payments that cannot be accepted by Company records will generate suspense items that will be handled through the Administrative Sites. All monies received, as a result of these payments will be forwarded directly to a designated lockbox. This function will be accessed to "place" cases where either no money was received with the application; insufficient money was received to cover the premium due when issued; or the amount of money collected required a placing adjustment when the policy placed at issue.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for server-side implementation on WebSphere Application Server.  • Used Struts MVC for Presentation and business Layer  • Configured struts-config.xml and web.xml and properties file provided by Struts framework for the implemented modules.  • Develop applications using Agile methodology  • Created Action Forms and Action classes for the modules.  • Implemented Action Errors a feature of Struts for error reporting.  • Used Hibernate as an ORM Framework for persistence to achieve clients making local method invocations on POJOs to access underlying relational data.  • Made use of Java Naming and Directory Interface (JNDI).  • Designed the database schema for the application  • Responsible to support production deployment and coordinating with deployment team.  • Developed Base classes or foundation classes for different modules  • Review and test the code to ensure improvement in performance of the code.  • Participate in requirement analysis of the applications along with business owners.  • Used Microsoft VISIO in the design phase for modeling which included Use Case diagram, Sequence diagram and Class diagram.  • Responsible for Data analysis and database design (ERD diagrams)  • Used Star Team for Source Control and Version Management.  • Support, design and troubleshoot all the Applications. Sr. Java Developer United Health Care UHC - Hyderabad, Telangana December 2009 to February 2011 Organization - Cognizant    Environment: Java1.4,JSP,RAD6.0,LotusApplication,DB2,ClearCase,ITG Tool, Web Sphere Application Server 7.0,Webservices,JavaScript,Windowsxp.  Description:  PHS-B2B Migration (834,820 Transactions) Addresses the migration of PHS batch transaction from PHS Trading Partners into the B2B, and the process flow for HIPAA enrollment groups that involves NICE system. Trading partner sends electronic enrollment file to PHS-B2B via ECG (External customer gateway). Trading partner delivers the files to ECG. ECG takes the files from Trading Partner and delivers it to B2B gateway. The file is translated to the corresponding output format and delivered to the NICE backend systems.  The program analysis and impact assessment identified that UnitedHealth Group (UHG) has a number of EDI Hubs. At the operational level, they are expensive to maintain and create confusion to UHG's business partners by creating inconsistency in experience for trading partners and constituents (i.e. provider, member, employer and broker).UnitedHealth intends to consolidate its EDI infrastructure into Enterprise EDI Hub which comprises of ECG, B2B and UFE components. The goal of the program is to provide a consistent user experience to our trading partner and constituent community, reduce overall cost of EDI across all UHG business segments, simplify the overall technology architecture for ease of maintenance and improve processing quality and capability of EDI transactions  Responsibilities:  • Participate in requirement analysis of the applications along with business owners.  • Responsible to develop 834, 820, 4010 and 5010 transactions.  • Responsible to analyze 834 Requirement traceability matrix(RTC)  • Designed and developed JSP pages, Servlet for the Data Sync POC.  • Responsible for converting the requirements into Technical Design Document for implementation.  • Designed and developed a multi-threaded Java based controller.  • Developed several Use Case diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence diagrams  • Wrote SQL queries  • Implemented Factory Method and DAO design patterns  • Involved in writing Shell script and ANT script for compiling and deployment  • Responsible for finalizing the CRs (Change Requests) and getting it implemented and delivered as per schedule  • Responsible to build and deploy the application in Sys4 and coordinate with deploy team. Sr. Java Developer Ford Motor Company - Chennai, Tamil Nadu June 2009 to December 2009 Organization - Cognizant    Environment: J2EE Technologies - Ford Frameworks, Struts, JSP, JS, Servlets, Websphere 6.1, DB2, RSA, PVCS, JavaScript, ShellScript, Putty, Windowsxp.  Description:  Single Order Filter (SOF) is an initial step in streamlining the order scheduling process and achieving Ford's overall Order Fulfillment (OF) vision of Available to Promise. The Single Order Filter (SOF) Project will combine three major areas of functionality (select and validate orders, assign plant, and schedule orders) and five legacy systems (OSR, COS, PAS, Order Filter, and OMS) to create a single application that selects and schedules orders. The SOF application will streamline, simplify, and enhance the scheduling business processes and supporting systems within the M&S and MP&L organizations. Ultimately, this data, timing and process alignment between the two organizations is one initiative that will enable Ford to provide the customer with a precise build promise week.  Responsibilities:  • Requirements gathering and documenting the software requirement specifications.  • Developed various functional and technical components using J2EE components like JAVA, JSP, Servlets.  • Created Action Forms and Action classes for the modules. Implemented Action Errors a feature of Struts for error reporting.  • Configured struts-config.xml and web.xml and properties file provided by Struts framework for the implemented modules.tiles on the presentation layer.  • Implemented J2EE patterns viz. Façade pattern, Singleton Pattern.  • Extensively wrote Java Scripts to enforce client side validations.  • Wrote SQL queries for Oracle 9i database  • Co-ordinate with the QA lead for development of test plan, test cases, test code and actual testing responsible for defects allocation and those defects are resolved.  • involved in testing and deployment of the application on WebSphere Application Server during integration and QA testing phase. Sr. Java Developer Ford Motor Company - Chennai, Tamil Nadu May 2008 to May 2009 Organization - Cognizant    Environment: J2EE Technologies - Ford Frameworks, Struts, JSP, JavaScript, Ajax, Websphere 6.1, Oracle Toplink, RSA, PVCS JavaScript, Windowsxp.  Description:  GCP (Global Capacity planning) deals with globalizing the existing capacity planning application for ford motors to accommodate the other customers other than USA and Europe customers An application designed to aid in the planning of Vehicle Line Capacity requirements for Ford Motor Company. It is a NA and European process that calculates part volumes for assembly plant End Item Parts Data. GCP is the sole source of part level data that is passed to Purchasing and generate the ATPs.  Global Capacity Planning is a competitive differentiator for Ford Motor Company. This will allow CPV2 to help drive customer satisfaction by aligning capacity with demand for vehicle assembly. This now puts Ford into a better position to achieve delivery to demand, by providing customers with choices instead of incentives. By supporting supplier relations and communications, CPV2 allows Ford and its' business partners to work together in aligning capacity with demand, and delivering to demand. By allowing the customer to choose from products they want, instead of alternatives, we increase customer satisfaction and maximize long-term profits.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in business requirements gathering and defining functional specifications  • Responsible to migrate the application from servlets to struts.  • Developed several Use Case diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence diagrams  • Used Struts framework for the development of view and controller layers.  • Coordinated in gathering integration requirements between different modules and translated it in a proper manner for the developers accordingly for each production cycle  • Developed the functionality for blotter transaction type such as Buy, Sell, Short  • Server-side implemented on Websphere Application Server platform.  • Implemented Singleton, Factory Method and DAO patterns  • Responsible for build and deploy the code in development environment, and coordinate and guide the team for production process.  • Responsible for bug tracking in Quality Center and essential code change for Fix.  • PVCS for Source Control and Version Management ADM Java Developer Northern Trust Services - Chennai, Tamil Nadu October 2007 to May 2008 Organization - Cognizant    Environment: JSF,JSP,Servlets,Webservices,JAXB,Weblogic8.1,Oracle9i,PVCS,RAD,QCJavaScript,Junit,Windowsxp  Description:  Client Information Administration (CIA) project focuses on improving C&IS Trust Account data integrity thereby reducing exposure to loss-due-to-error risks. To accomplish this, CIA will deliver re-engineered Trust processes that better reflect ever-changing business environment. CIA application deals with capturing Northern Trust's client's information at four different data levels, Client, Legal Agreement, Entity and Account. CIA application replaces the existing Trust Servicing application which captures data at only Client and Account level. The captured data is stored in the trust servicing database (DB2). Application has the capability of updating the lower level data automatically when the data at the upper level is changed. Other components of the application includes Admin tool (to execute failed transactions), Reporting tool, Client/Account search tool etc  .Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Analysis, Design, Coding, modification and implementation of user requirements.  • Involved in requirement gathering and modeling the requirements into design document such as Use Case diagram, Activity diagram and Class diagram.  • Responsible to implement the application using Java Server Faces JSF and Webservices  • Involved in the database design  • Worked on XML, XSL, XSLT  • Extensively wrote Java Scripts to enforce client side validations.  • Designed and developed JSP pages for the application  • Responsible for finalizing the CRs (Change Requests) and getting it implemented and delivered as per schedule.  • Responsible for addressing the defects raised by client.  • Production Support.  • Used PVCS for Source Control and Version Management.  • Testing and deployment of the application on Weblogic Application Server during Integration and QA testing phases.  • Developed, tested and debugged all the Components in RAD. ADM Java Developer GAP INV - Chennai, Tamil Nadu April 2007 to September 2007 Organization - Covansys    Environment: Struts,JavaScript,JSP,WebSphere,Oracle,PVCS.RAD,QCJavaScript,Junit,Windowsxp  Description:  Inventory System in GAP plays a crucial role in keeping track of the Inventory of DCs, Stores, Setting up of Model Stocks and Allocations of goods to stores. Application processes all the data on sales transactions, model stock setup, and allocations, shipments and receipt events of GAP across the world. The data is analyzed and the information is available in various forms. Inventory System functions as an interface to other applications like Revenue Accounting, Point of Sales and Logistics.  The Product Optimization and Sizing Tool aims to integrate input parameters and automate the Sizing, Packing and Distribution strategies. It is a component of the Localization - Size initiative whose goal is to address customer demand at Size/Store level that maximizes profit by varying size mix to stores and optimizing pack factor.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in program design and development  • Involved in the Configuration of WebSphere Application Server  • Developed stored procedures using PL/SQL  • Server-side implemented on J2EE, Oracle  • Designed and Developed the Web-based UI using JSP and Java Script  • Involved in debugging, testing and Integration of the System  • Responsible for bug tracking in Quality Center and essential code change for Fix.  • Used PVCS for Source Control and Version Management. Associate-Project Covansys India April 2006 to September 2007 ADM Java Developer Public Sector-USA - Bengaluru, Karnataka April 2006 to April 2007 Organization - Covansys    Environment: Java Server Faces(JSF),JSP,EJB,RAD,WebSphere,ClearQuest,VSS,JavaScript,Junit,Windowsxp  Description:  eTABS (employer taxation and benefiray system) is Department of Job and Family Services, Office of Unemployment Compensation, Bureau of unemployment Compensation Tax (UC Tax) administers the tax and wage record provisions of the Ohio Unemployment Compensation Law, USA. UC Tax is seeking to implement a modernized system for processing unemployment compensation taxes to effectively and efficiently accept reporting, bill employers, accept payments and process refunds, collect monies due, track employer records, assure employer compliance with the law, and provide customer support to assist employers in meeting their legal obligations. While a current system exists (mainframe system which was designed in the 1970s), it is inefficient in both business process and system operation. Portfolio Management System is a report generation System. This system consists of developing reports corresponding to the functional areas and requirements for Portfolio Application Management. These reports show the Schemes and Sectors ids in the database for reference look-up and show portfolio activity information for a date range. We can analyze and find out historical information for portfolio at various intervals using this system. It will display a list of daily attributes for a security in a given date range up to the end date. Additionally, security information would be shown, such as price, yield, coupon, maturity, ratings and duration.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the development of front-end developing part (presentation layer)  • Involved in the development of JSF coding for the controllers  • Involved in generating reports to show the portfolios, schemes and sector's within date range.  • Used VSS for Source Control and Version Management  • Used WebSphere Web server for deployment.  • Responsible for Junit Testing, preparing UTC and UTR.  • Involved in bug tracking and fixing using Quality Center. Education Master of Computer Applications in Computer Applications University of Madras - Chennai, Tamil Nadu 2004 Bachelor of Science(Bsc) Andhra University 1999 Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jaxb, Jboss, Jms, Jndi, Jsf, Jsp, Jstl, Rmi, Servlets, Struts, Jakarta, Visual studio, Git, Html Additional Information Technical Skill Set  Languages Java, Java Script HTML,XML,SQL,PL/SQL,Unix/Shell  Architecture/ Frameworks J2EE 1.3/1.4, Struts 1.x/2.x,Spring 1.x/2.x/3.x/4.x,JSF,Hibernate 2.x/3.x,Angular JS, MVC Framework  Java/J2EE Technologies  Servlets , JSP, JSTL, JDBC, RMI, JNDI, EJB 1.1/2.0/3.0(Session Beans, Entity Beans, Message Driven Beans MDB ), JMS-MQ, JSF, Java Mail, Java Swing, LDAP, Multithreading,Applet, HTML, DHTML    Web Services REST,SOAP, WSDL, JAXB.  XML Technologies XML, SAX, DOM, XSL, XSLT, XSD  Web/Application Servers Apache Tomcat 4.x/5.x, Web Logic 8.x/9.x/10.x, WebSphere 5.x/6.x/7.x, Jboss 3.x/4.x/7.x  Configuration Management Tools ClearCase,VSS,PVCS,StarTeam,GIT  Build Tools Jakarta ANT,ITG, BuildForge, Jenkins, Maven.  Databases Oracle8i/9i/10g/11g,IBM UDB DB2, MS SQL Server 2000  Testing, Logging Tools JUnit,Log4j, ANT,Eclipse 3.x,Net Beans 3.x,TOAD,Microsoft Visio,Visual Studio  Utilities Eclipse, RAD, RSA, STS, Jboss Studio,SOAPUI,Edit Plus,BeyondCompare.  Operating Systems Windows, Linux, Unix.