Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Sr.<span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Full Stack Developer - Kroger Cincinnati, OH • Over 9+ years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development and implementation of applications using Java and J2EE technologies.  • Worked in Agile and Waterfall development methodologies.  • Experience on design patterns such as Session Facade, Singleton and Factory.  • Experience in developing applications using Java/J2EE technologies like Servlets, Struts, accustom tags, Java Beans, EJB, Spring, Spring Boot, JDBC, Hibernate, JBPM, JMS, JSF.  • Strong experience in Spring 4.2.0 Framework modules such as Spring Core (IOC, SpEL, Dependency Injection), Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring Cloud, Spring Data (JPA, JDBC, Hibernate), Spring Security, Spring REST and Spring Boot.  • Expertise in UI technologies like XML, XML Spy, HTML, HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, CSS, CSS3, PHP, XSLT, JSON, jQuery, AJAX, JavaScript, ReactJS, BackboneJS.  • Used Grails, front end libraries such as JavaScript/jQuery, HTML, Sand slight java techniques applied in Groovy.  • Hands-on experience working and customizing Bootstrap framework to achieve responsiveness.  • Experience in creating Single Page Applications (SPAs) using JavaScript libraries like AngularJS with good knowledge about the concepts like Two-way binding, Dependency Injection, Filters, Services, Controllers and Directives.  • Experienced in working with Spring JDBC Templates, JMS Templates, Spring EAI, Spring Rest Templates  • Experience in implementing SOA and Web Services using SOAP, REST, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, AXIS.  • Strong understanding of Micro services Design patterns - Circuit Breaker/Hystrix, DTD, Aggregator, Proxy Chaining.  • Diverse experience utilizing tools in N-tier and Micro services architecture applications using Spring Boot, Spring Cloud config, Netflix OSS components (Eureka, Zuul, Hystrix), Pivotal Cloud Foundry, AWS, Rabbit MQ, Kafka, Zookeeper, Cassandra, My SQL, Restful Web Services.  • Worked on creating Docker images, Containers, push/pull and on integration with Spring Boot.  • Proficient in developing UML/Vision diagrams using case tools like Enterprise Architect, Visio and Rational Rose.  • Experience in working with Relational databases like SQL Server 2000, MySQL, Oracle DB 10g/ 11g, IBM DB2 and Non-Relational Databases like MongoDB, Coachbase.  • Expertise with tools like SQL Workbench, SQL Developer and TOAD tool for accessing the Database server  • Good Working knowledge of ANT, MAVEN, Gradle.  • Designed and implemented interface elements using Google Web Toolkit GWT.  • Well experienced in using JUnit, Log 4J, SOAP UI and POSTMAN for testing framework.  • Expertise on Selenium Data Driven framework and integrating it with Maven [Build Management Tool], TestNG [Unit Testing tool] and Jenkins [Continuous Integration Tool].  • Extensive experience in testing on multiple operating systems including Unix, Linux and Windows.  • Experience in configuring and deploying the applications on Tomcat, Glassfish, WebSphere, WebLogic, JBoss Servers.  • Expertise in using configuration management tool like SVN and Git for version controlling. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Kroger - Cincinnati, OH April 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application.  • Developed applications using Angular2, Java8 and new features of java (lambda expressions).  • Developed screens using HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX.  • Design and developed the application using framework Angular 2 with HTML5, CSS3 and Typescript.  • Developed UI components using Angular 2 dependency Injection, Models, data binding and controllers.  • Implemented Angular 2 Router to enable navigation from one view to another.  • Used Protractor to perform End to end testing for single page application developed using Angular 2.  • Developed Application to asses JSON and XML from Restful web service from consumer side using Angular 2.  • Experience with Responsive Web Design, Bootstrap and Plygrid framework.  • Developed various generic JavaScript, Angular functions to implement client-side validations.  • Involved in developing Thread Safe blocks for multithread access and distributed transaction management.  • Created and injected spring services, controllers and DAOs to achieve dependency injection.  • Heavily used Spring Inheritance, Auto-wiring, Core Container, Security, AOP, Spring Quartz for scheduling tasks to generate reports and emails to clients.  • Developed Persistence layer using Spring Data to interact with the Database.  • Developed Spring Restful/Microservices and implemented Spring Restful/Micro Services and implemented Spring Eureka, Netflix, Ribbon as part of Services Discovery using Apache Axis.  • Implemented Spring MVC flow to interact with different modules and extensively used Spring AOP and Dependency injection during various modules of project.  • Developed Microservices with Spring Eureka to retrieve API routes for the entire cluster. Using this strategy each spring service in a cluster can be load balanced and exposed through one API gateway.  • Used Micro service architecture with Spring Boot based services interacting through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka message brokers.  • Implemented Spring Circuit breaker pattern, integrated Hystrixdashboard to monitor Spring micro services.  • Implemented Authentication & Authorization with Site Minder and Spring security.  • Implemented REST based web services using JAX-RS annotations, Jersey provider and consumed using HTTP services from angular 2 modules.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) like EC2, S3, cloud watch and Elastic Bean Stalk for code deployment.  • Writing Entities in Java, Play Framework along with named queries to interact with database.  • Experience in Updating, Modifying queries in Oracle 11g.  • Composed and executed MongoDB scripts to insert and update NoSQL database and reporting.  • Used GWT and Amazon AWS (EC2/S3/EBS) for prototyping and subsequent evaluation.  • Developed quality code adhering to Scala coding standards and best practices.  • Worked with Kafka Cluster using ZooKeeper. Developed Applications using Rule Engines-Jboss Drools 4.x, Work flows, Human tasks to implement Business rules validations.  • Developed data transformer for converting legacy data from Source tables to avro format and fed into Kafka using Camel.  • Worked on creation of custom Docker container images, tagging, pushing images, integration of Spring boot.  • Created the Docker containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle.  • Worked with the Node package manager along with Karma, Jasmine, Grunt and Bower for test and build.  • Smoke Test and Acceptance Testing is performed with Selenium in multiple Java platforms.  • Worked with the automation team to understand the Selenium scripts and review the code, run the tests and review the results and provide inputs to the team.  • Used Maven and Jenkins to automate the build and deploy process and Git was used for project management and version management.  Environment: Java 8, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Angular 2, HTML5, CSS3, JSON, JavaScript, Node.js, Spring Data, Protractor, Mongo DB, Oracle 11g, IntelliJ IDEA, Junit 4.4, Mockito, Git, Selenium, Scala, Spark, Drools, AWS, Docker, Spring Cloud, RESTful web services, Apache Tomcat, Apache Kafka, Camel, Maven, Jenkins, Sr. Java Full Stack Developer PNC Bank - Virginia Beach, VA July 2016 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  • Agile/Scrum methodology is used for development of the project.  • Designed table-less layouts, gradient effects, navigation and icons using CSS, appropriate tags as per W3C standards.  • User interface coding and styling using JavaScript, CSS and HTML.  • Bootstrap used along with AngularJS in creating the Application.  • Developed a cross-device/cross-browser web application for real-time location sharing utilizing AngularJS, JavaScript API.  • Used JSPs for implementing UI/MVC framework.  • Implemented code according to coding standards and Created AngularJS Controller, which Isolate scopes perform operations.  • Excellent implementation Persistence layer using JPA, JDBC and Hibernate.  • Used Hibernate ORM tools which automate the mapping between IBM DB2 SQL databases and objects in Java.  • Extensively used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database for registrations.  • Implemented the service layer using Spring 2.5 with transaction and logging interceptors.  • Used Spring framework for middle tier and Spring-hibernate for data access.  • Developed the middle tier using EJBs, Java Servlets. Code repository management using SVN and project build tool using ANT.  • Involved in writing SQL, Stored procedure and PL/SQL for back end. Used Views and Functions at the Oracle 11g DB end.  • Developed the PL/SQL scripts for rebuilding the application Oracle Database.  • Designed and developed Web Services (SOAP, WSDL). Created and compiled XML Schema to generate Java  • Rabbit MQ was used to provide a single unifying transport that reduces cost and maintenance efforts, including support for HTTP, REST and JMS.  • Developed code using IntelliJ IDEA as an Integrated Development Environment for java-based applications.  • Used WebSphere for application deployment and Log 4J used for Logging/debugging.  • Written several unit test cases using JUnit and created unit test documents.  • Resolving defects after every project release if needed and involved in project related discussions.  Environment: Core Java, JSP, JUnit, Angular JS, IntelliJ IDEA, JDBC, Hibernate, WebSphere, IBM DB2, JavaScript, Servlets, HTML, Oracle11g, CSS, JPA, ANT, Log4j. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer AXA Financials - New York, NY April 2014 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Worked in all phases of Software Development including Requirement, Analysis, design, development and testing.  ? Applications are developed in Agile methodology.  ? Generated use case diagrams, activity diagrams, class diagrams, sequence diagrams in design phase of projects.  ? By using Servlets and JSP implemented server-side programs.  ? User Interface developed using HTML5, CSS and JQuery.  ? Implemented Model View Controller Architecture and developed form classes, Action Classes for the entire application using Struts Framework.  ? Worked in migrating applications from Struts to Spring.  ? Developed Stored Procedures and queries to work with millions of records in SQL Server database environment.  ? Developed extensive code using JAVA/J2EE.  ? Followed the best practices in coding like removing unnecessary casting, using generics in HashMap, caching, Collections like sort, comparator, list and design patterns.  ? Handled Java multi- threading part in back-end component, one thread will be running for each user, which serves that user.  ? Developed web service modules based on SOA using SOAP and Restful.  ? Developed the persistence layer using Hibernate Framework by configuring the mappings in hibernate mapping files and created DAO and PO.  ? Used Tortoise SVN to maintain the version of the files did the code merges from branch to trunk and creating new branch when new feature implementation starts.  ? Used Apache Tomcat application server for deploying and running web applications.  ? Written SQL queries. PL/SQL store procedures and triggers to fetch and store data from the database.  ? Used GIT to check-in and check-out and co-ordinate among team members for Version Controlling.  ? Involved in writing Junit test cases and used log4j for any errors in the application.    Environment: Java, JDBC, JavaScript, Html, CSS, JSP, Servlets, Tomcat, SQL server, Eclipse IDE, CVS, ANT, SQL Server, log4j. Java Full Stack Developer ACT - Des Moines, IA December 2012 to March 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various SDLC phases like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis, Code development and Deployment.  • Applied Agile Test Practices SCRUM, Scripted Test Cases for Test Driven Development TDD and developed test cases for story card based on Acceptance Test Driven Development ATDD.  • Active in coding some of the Core Java concepts such as collections, generics and multi-threading.  • Followed the best practices in coding like removing unnecessary casting, using generics in Hash Map, caching, Collections like sort, comparator, list, set and Design patterns.  • Developing web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and used twitter Bootstrap for cross browser compatibility.  • Extensive experience with AngularJS, creating custom directives, decorators, and services to interface with both restful and legacy network services also DOM applications.  • Involved in implementing the complete Application in the in-build MVC Architecture with Angular js. Used date-format and moment packages inNode.js to save the timestamp in database converting into GMT  • Implemented Multithreading, Concurrency, Exception Handling and Collections whenever necessary.  • Developed spring-based presentation layer, hibernate based DAO layer and integrated them using Spring Dependency injection, ORM and Web modules.  • Analyze and resolve problems associated with MQ software, UNIX software and associated hardware and applications.  • Spring Transaction is used for the degree of isolation to work with other transactions and to execute within a transaction scope to run that transaction and used to check out before timing out of the transaction  • Experience in using Chef Attributes, templates, recipes, files. Used Puppet and MCO for Configuration Management tool.  • Gained Knowledge on Electrode Platform NodeJS/Web platform built on top of the ReactJS and HapiJS frameworks.  • Ensured successful architecture and deployment of enterprise grade PaaS solutions using Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF) as well as proper operation during initial application migration and set new development.  • Created AWS EBS volumes for storing application files for use with AWS EC2 instances whenever they are mounted to them and installed Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF) on EC2 to manage containers created by PCF.  • Extensively worked on JPA as persistence layer, involving EJB3.0 annotations.  • Migrating existing application into micro services architecture using Rest APIs, spring boot, Spring Cloud config, Netflix oss (eureka, zuul, hystrix) and AWS.  • Spring Boot Micro services were developed with micro service architecture using SOAP and Apache Camel.  • Integrated configured Camel with ActiveMQ to use it as bus.  • Implemented a SOA compliant system working on various transactional messaging using Camel and used Session Beans Message Driven Beans.  • Worked on Jenkins and Docker interactively and integrating together for end to end automation of builds and deployment.  • Configured the Hibernate configuration files to persist the data to the MongoDB database.  • Worked on Mongo DB concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, replications, schema design.  • Created connections to database using Hibernate Session Factory, using Hibernate APIs to retrieve and store images to the database with Hibernate transaction control.  • Worked on Continuous Deployments of IOT apps using Cloud Foundry Micro services and Jenkins running on Docker images.  • Used XML Web Services using SOAP protocol to transfer the amount to other application that is remote and global to different financial institutions.  • Wrote code Web Services (JAX-WS) for external system via SOAP/HTTP call and to fetch data from web services via JSON response and updating HTML pages.  • Employed fail safe and circuit breaker patterns for the first time in Client's email applications using Hystrix and Hystrix Dashboard in Spring Boot Micro Service Applications.  • Developed Docker images to support Development and Testing.  • Used Pivotal Cloud Foundry to role-based access controls, applying and enforcing roles and permissions to ensure that users can only view and affect the spaces for which they have been granted access.  • Used version control repository SVN (Subversion by apache) and JIRA for issue tracking.  • Deployed Puppet, Puppet Dashboard, and Puppet DB for configuration management to existing infrastructure.  • Researched and troubleshooted emerging application issues, from WebLogic configuration to code issues.  • Selenium's playback tool feature for authoring tests has been used in executing more than 100 test cases.  • Used Log4j framework to log/track application.  Environment:HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, AJAX, Multithreading, JavaScript, JSF 2.1, Angular JS, Puppet, Spring 3.x, Hibernate 3.x, Soap UI, Maven, SVN, JIRA, Docker, Web sphere, SOAP web service, Unix/Linux, Selenium, Web Logic Application Server, Pivotal Cloud Foundry. Java Developer Professional Access, India - IN September 2008 to November 2012 Responsibilities:  • Designed the application using the J2EE design patterns such as Session Façade, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Value Object, Value List Handler, and Singleton.  • Developed Use case diagrams, Object diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using UML.  • Developed presentation tier as HTML, JSPs using Struts Framework.  • Developed the middle tier using EJBs.  • Used singleton and factory design patterns for common functionality of buttons.  • Developed session, entity beans and message driven beans.  • Entity Beans used for accessing data from the SQL Server database.  • JQuery opinionated about how a CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) application should be built.  • Prepared high and low-level design documents for future references and updates.  • Deployed the application on WebSphere application server in development and production environment.  • Undertook the Integration and testing of the different parts of the application.  • Developed automated Build files using ANT.  • Used JDBC for database connectivity and manipulation.  • Process credit card payments including posting to accounts and logging activity.  • Used Subversion for version control and log4j for logging errors.  • Code Walkthrough, Test cases and Test Plans.  Environment: HTML, JSP, Struts, ANT, SQLServer, Jquery, Java/J2EE,log4j. Education Bachelor's Skills JAVA (10+ years), jQuery (8 years), DESIGN PATTERNS (7 years), HTML (8 years), DATABASE (10+ years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages/API C, C++, Java 5/6/7/8, Java/J2EE, JDBC, UML, Design Patterns, HTML, JavaScript, SQL, Angular 2, PL/SQL.  Frameworks Spring 4.2, Hibernate 5.0.2, Spring 4.2.  IDEs Eclipse 4.6/4.5, IntelliJ, Spring Tool suite 2.x/3.x  Web technologies HTML, CSS, Servlets, JSPs, XML, JQuery, Ajax, AngularJS and Bootstrap.  Tools SQL Developer, Log4J, SOAPUI, Postman.  Web/Application Servers Apache Tomcat 8.x, Web Logic 9.x/10. X, Web Sphere 7.0/8.0  XML Tools JAXB, Apache Axis  Web Services Methodologies Restful services, WSDL, SOAP, JAV-WS, CXF, AXIS, JAX-RS, JERSEY Agile, Waterfall.  Testing technologies/tools Junit, Jtest, Log4J, JMeter, SeleniumWebDriver, Jasmine, Drools, Karma, Protractor, Jenkins, Docker, SoapUI, Mockito  Database Servers Oracle 10g/11g, SQL Server 2000/2005/2008, MySQL, MongoDB, Cassandra  Version Control Systems SVN, GitHub  Build Tools ANT, Maven, Jenkins.  Platforms Windows 2000/98/95/NT4.0, Windows 7, Windows 10, Linux, Unix, MacOS