Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java/J2EE Developer - End Client NC • Over 7 years of IT experience as a Full Stack/UI Developer in analysis, design, development and testing of web application.  • Expert in building User Interface (UI) using HTML5, DHTML, CSS3 and JavaScript that follows W3C Web Standards and are browser compatible.  • Having good experience on Web Technologies using HTML4/5, CSS2/CSS3, XHTML, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, XML and JSON.  • Extensive experience in developing web page quickly and effectively using JQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Responsive Web Design, Bootstrap and experience in making web pages cross browser compatible.  • Extensively used ECMAScript 6.0 (ES6) for large applications and library creation.  • Excellent knowledge in the development of User Experience web and mobile based applications.  • Expert in HTML5/CSS3 development and have experience in Backbone.js, Node.js, Angular.js, Responsive design.  • Having knowledge on media queries.  • Extensive experience as web developer with a strong background working on open source technologies, including JSP, HTML, CSS, MySQL, JavaScript, Flash, Photoshop.  • Experience with open source Java script technologies ExtJs.  • Experience with JavaScript task runner using Grunt.  • Having knowledge on flux architecture.  • Good experience in Software designing using MVC architecture.  • Expertise in designing Event Handling Models such as Listener and Dispatcher in OO JavaScript. With backend in Springs MVC (Restful services with annotation) architecture framework.  • Expert in designing web applications and web contents utilizing various Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques.  • Solid experience with Responsive Web Design (RWD)  • Familiar with popular browsers development and debugging tools/plugins for IE tester, Chrome Inspector, Firebug, Jasmine and Karma testing framework.  • Experienced in building cross browser compatibility applications using HTML5 and CSS3.  • Strong experience in CSS3 preprocessors styling such as SASS and LESS.  • Extensive experience in OOP, OOAD, System Analysis design, Development and Deployment of various Applications in Java Technologies.  • Skilled in developing web applications using JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JNDI, JSTL JavaBeans and J2EE web services.  • Having knowledge on working with structs.  • Having solid experience in using JavaScript and jQuery for manipulating the mark-up and data operations using jquery and AJAX.  • Provided UX services including interpreting requirements, creating concept designs, wire framing designs, and rapid prototyping and related UX standards.  • Experience in using polymer library for creating web components.  • Strong Experience in developing the application using frameworks like Struts, Java Server Faces (JSF) and Spring frameworks.  • Experience in popular JavaScript frameworks such as Angular.js, Node.js, jQuery, Require.js, Express.js, D3.js, Dojo toolkit, Jasmine, Karma with automation tools like Grunt, Gulp with NPM and Bower.  • Expert in working with LAMP and WAMP platform.  • Having good knowledge on Angular 2.0.  • Expert in Rich Internet Applications (RIA) with advanced JavaScript Frameworks using MVC, JQuery.  • Experience in using UML modeling tools like Microsoft Visio and Rational Rose to design and develop high level and comprehensive design module.  • Experience in configuring the application to be deployed on Heroku platform with support infrastructure on self-motivated Team player with excellent interpersonal skills.  • Flexible, enthusiastic and project oriented team player with solid communication and Analytic skills to develop creative solution for challenging client needs.  • Experience in all phase of SDLC like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and Maintenance, and extensive experience with Agile and SCRUM. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java/J2EE Developer End Client - Cisco, NC April 2017 to Present Description: MyPay is an internal employee web application that stores/displays payslips, tax related documents and banking information for direct deposit. It notifies employees with any changes in their account (when new payslips are available, when changes made to banking information, when annual tax documents are available, etc). It uses RESTful controllers for each module/feature.  Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile methodology (SCRUM) during development of the project and oversee the software development in Sprints by attending daily stand-ups.  • Worked with scrum master, team members, QA teams to clarify on requirements and to develop realistic development plans and contribute to successful delivery of the Project.  • During sprints, worked on all phases of software development life cycle including design, development, and implementation and testing.  • Designed and developed UI Screens with Spring (MVC), HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Angular to provide interactive screens to display data.  • Implemented Angular controllers to maintain each view data, and Angular service calls using Angular Factory.  • Created RFP (Request for Proposal) micro service to provide RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST APIs and Spring Boot for micro services.  • Deployed the application to non-production and production environments using uDeploy and uRelease.  • Used GIT for branching and merging of source code management.  • Designed and developed business components using Session and Entity Beans in EJB.  • Implemented Java and J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate and Data Access Object (DAO)  • Implemented the business layer by using JPA with Spring DAO and developed mapping files and POJO java classes using ORM.  • Used Cisco AppDB to deploy database objects from development to stage and production environments.  • Implemented Persistence layer using JPA and writing SQL queries based on JPA criteria API.  • Good experience in debugging the application by running the server in debug mode and having the experience in usage of log4J to persist the data in log files.  • Developed application using STS IDE and used MAVEN script to create the war.  • Deployed web services and tested using POSTMAN tool.  • Involved in unit testing using JUNIT and performing Integration testing and system testing.  • Deployed the application in UNIX machine and used FTP to see the logs etc.  • Used Maven tool to build & deploy the application on the server.  • Involved in Tomcat server configurations set up, data sources, and queues set up and deploying the application.  • Involved in analyzing the performance of the application, gathered thread dump & tuned the application using VisualVM.  Environment: JAVA 1.8/J2EE, HTML, Java Script, AngularJS, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring Data JPA, JSON, Apache Tomcat Server 9, RESTful, JUNIT, Git, POSTMAN, Maven, VisualVM, Toad, Jenkins, uDeploy, uRelease, AppDB, Artifactory. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer End Client - Charlotte, NC September 2015 to March 2017 Description: IPAL Channel Services is a web socket server that shares information from Universal Softphone used by agents with the web clients. It sends and receives real-time data to the web clients via web sockets. IPAL Agents Services is a web service that uses RESTful APIs. It retrieves agent profile data from EpiCenter database, which also performs synchronization. IPAL security services provides an OAUTH security access token for accessing agent profiles and other agent states.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirements gathering, analysis, design, development, and testing and production support of application.  • Implemented load balancing solution for the application to efficiently balance traffic between all the application servers.  • Preparation of PIDs and BRRs for project initiation and sizing requirements.  • Used HTML, Java Script, AngularJS, JQUERY, XML, JSP and Tag Libraries to develop UI simulator pages for IPAL.  • Creation of generic templates for end users.  • Implemented the application using spring concepts - Batch implementation and Spring MVC.  • Developed RESTful web services and implemented MA/SSL for improved security, built a filter that checks for OU values in client certificate.  • Wrote Table valued functions for ECCOS reporting requirements.  • Created internal & external services, Entity services and handlers.  • Created a Java script that stops/starts Solution Control Servers on SCI.  • Retrieved agent properties throughout the application using XPATH  • Configured JPA and Hibernate on Tomcat Server in Eclipse environment.  • Integrated Spring & Hibernate frameworks to develop end to end application.  • Used Hibernate to connect from web service and perform CRUD operations in to DB.  • Used spring framework to inject services, entity services, transaction management.  • Used Spring batch for executing jobs every hour on stale customer records  • Used core Java concepts like Collections, Generics, Exception handling, IO, Concurrency to develop business logic.  • Validated query execution plans & tuned queries using Indexes, Views and Batch processing.  • Involved in doing JUNIT testing and ran the TEST SUITE using EMPIRIX tool.  • Ran check styles to find bugs and PMD defects and fixed them.  • Addressed defects identified in QA, UAT phases. And tracked them using JIRA.  • Deployed web services are tested using POSTMAN tool.  • Involved in unit testing using JUNIT and performing Integration testing and system testing.  • Deployed the application in UNIX machine and used FTP to see the logs etc.  • Worked on Genesys web services integration with Apache Cassandra in Single data center and Double data center models with three and six nodes of Apache Cassandra respectively.  • Used Ant tool to build & deploy the application on the server.  • Used log4J for logging and debugging of the application.  • Involved in Tomcat server configurations set up, data sources, and queues set up and deploying the application.  • Involved in analyzing the performance of the application, gathered thread dump & tuned the application using JConsole.  Environment: JAVA 1.8/J2EE, HTML, Java Script, AngularJS, JPA, JQUERY, Servlets, JSP, JSON, Apache Tomcat Server 9, XML, XSD, XPATH, WSDL, Spring 3.2, MVC, IOC, AOP, Hibernate 3.5, JAX-RS, JUNIT, SVN, POSTMAN, Ant, JConsole, SQL Developer, SQL Server Management Studio, Genesys CME, Genesys SCI, Apache Cassandra Sr. Java/J2EE Developer End Client - Philadelphia, PA May 2014 to August 2015 Description: Independence Blue Cross is the leading health insurer in southeastern Pennsylvania. With our affiliates, we serve nearly 8.5 million people in 24 states and the District of Columbia. For more than 75 years, we have been enhancing the health and wellness of the people and communities we serve by delivering innovative and competitively priced health care products and services; pioneering new ways to reward doctors, hospitals, and other health care professionals for coordinated, quality care; and supporting programs and events that promote wellness.  Role and Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirements gathering, analysis, design, development, testing and Maintenance phases of Application.  • Implementing the project in agile methodologies - sprint & scrum.  • Involved in backlog grooming, sprint planning, user stories estimations and dividing USs into tasks.  • Preparation of TSD design documents with UML diagrams including Sequence Diagrams, Class Diagrams etc. using Microsoft VISIO tool.  • Used HTML, XHTML, DHTML, Java Script, AJAX, JQUERY, XML, XSLT, XPATH, JSP and Tag Libraries to develop view pages.  • Creation of generic templates to be used by users.  • Used spring framework to inject services, entity services, transaction management, and concerns by factory class corresponding to the use case operation executing.  • Implemented the application using spring concepts - DI/IOC, AOP, Batch implementation and Spring MVC.  • Developed & consumed the web services using Apache CXF, JAX-WS, AXIS, WSDL, and SOAP.  • Developed Restful web services using JAX-RS and CXF tool.  • Created internal & external services, Entity services and handlers.  • Done with transformers, exception handling, testing & Security of mule ESB endpoint through WSSR.  • Integrated Spring & Hibernate frameworks to develop end to end application.  • Used Hibernate to create data layer to the services to do CRUD operations in to DB.  • Used Mule ESB in creating http inbound & outbound flows and orchestration using Xpath.  • Used Mule ESB to design and implement communication between software applications and SOA.  • Set up Object & relationship mappings with Associations, inheritance, and named queries etc. using Hibernate.  • Used core java concepts like Collections, Generics, Exception handling, IO, Concurrency to develop business logic.  • Used JMS for Asynchronous messaging.  • Involved in writing SQL & PL SQL stuff to be called by CTRL-M batch jobs for BOD and EOD jobs.  • Validated query execution plans & tuned queries using Indexes, Views and Batch processing.  • Involved in doing JUNIT testing and ran the TEST SUITE using EMMA tool.  • Ran check styles, Find bugs and PMD defects and fixed them.  • Addressed defects identified in QA, IST phases. And tracked them using QC.  • Deployed web services are tested using SOAP UI tool.  • Involved in unit testing using JUNIT with Mockito, Integration testing and system testing.  • Deployed the application in UNIX machine and used FTP to see the logs etc.  • Used Ant tool to build & deploy the application on the server.  • Involved in Web logic server configurations set up, data sources, and queues set up and deploying the application.  • Involved in analyzing the performance of the application, gathered thread dump & tuned the application using JMeter.  Environment: JAVA 1.6/J2EE, HTML, DHTML, Java Script, AJAX, JQUERY, Servlets, JSP, Mule ESB, JSON, Oracle Web logic application server 10.3, XML, XSD, XSLT, XPATH, JAXP, JAXB, WSDL, SOAP, Spring 3.2, MVC, IOC, AOP, Hibernate 3.5, JAX-RS, CXF, JMS, RAD 8.0, JUNIT, SVN, SOAPUI, JNDI, Oracle, Ant, JMeter etc. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer End Client - Charlotte, NC October 2012 to April 2014 Description: Synergy Program would revolutionize the current way of experiencing of banking to its agents and clients or customers. This program provides Deposit, Card and Small Business customer contact centers, a relationship servicing model, enabling agents to use optimized processes and integrated tools to service multiple products and reduce the load of today's call transfers. Established the common, foundational processes and customer level capabilities for contact center agents, reducing the complexity and use of multitude of applications, optimized the business processes to deliver more seamless agent navigation experience resulting in reducing customer and agent's contact time.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the loan details Presentation module.  • Involved in designing of the BOA Loan Assist entry framework using J2EE guidelines and different J2EE design patterns with JSP, Controller Servlets and EJB in picture.  • Involved in the implementation of the Service Locator, Business Delegate and the Session Façade design pattern for the enterprises level functionality.  • Used JavaScript, for the client end data validations  • Involved in JUnit testing and used JProbe to quickly pinpoint and repair the root cause of application code performance and stability problems that obstruct component and integration integrity.  • Developed the Stateless Session bean for processing the business logic.  • Developed numerous Transfer objects using the DTO design pattern for inter-tier communication.  • Implemented Struts framework (Action and Controller classes) for dispatching request to appropriate class.  • Used Struts Validation framework for validation of user input as per the business logic and initial data loading.  • Used JSF for automatic synchronize UI components.  • Used JSF for navigation handling and duplicate button press problem.  • Used Dojo to develop custom dojo widgets for Color chooser and others.  • Used Dojo Widget Library Dijit like Tree, Back button, Calendar, List box, Validation text box, Text area, to create form, validation and for specialized input.  • Designed and delivered innovative transparent cryptography layer for Dojo SQL using AES 256-bit encryption, protecting stolen laptops from having their offline data compromised.  • Written SQL, PL/SQL queries. And used DB2 stored procedure, functions, triggers, cursors, objects, sequences etc.  • Used Crystal Report tools to generate data sources.  • Application development using N-tiered client/server development.  • Implemented Rational Unified Process (RUP) for software development process  • Develop Message Driven Beans (MDB) & involved in building and accessing a web Services using  • SOAP over JMS.  • Developing a mechanism for sending and receiving SOAP messages over JMS by MQ Series Engine  • Developed Web Services using Apache AXIS2 tool Framework.  • Generated WSDL files using AXIS2 tool.  • Implemented Web Services using SOAP protocol, UDDI, WSDL and Service oriented Architecture (SOA) Concept.  • Written JUnit test cases for Business Objects, and prepared code documentation for future reference and upgrades.  • Written build xml file for ANT scripting.  • Used IBM Rational ClearCase (software configuration management (SCM)) for version control, workspace management, parallel development support and build auditing to improve productivity  • Deployed applications using Web Logic Application Server  • Implemented open source log4j logging framework in whole application.  • Used CVS as a version controlling tool for managing the module developments.  Environment: JAVA, J2EE, Servlets 2.4, EJB 2.0, JDBC 2.0, JAXB, Struts 2.0, JSF components, DAO, HTML, Java Script, XML, CSS, Ajax, Web Sphere Application server, LDAP, Oracle 10g, Log4J, Eclipse 3.1, CVS, DOJO, Ant 1.5, SOA, SOAP, DB2, PL/SQL, SQL, Web Services-WSDL, SOAP, UDDI, SOAP UI, JAX_RS, JERSEY, Windows XP. Jr. Java Developer End Client August 2009 to September 2012 Description: This application uses most of the cloud computing concepts to ensure that all the components can be used "anytime, anywhere". This RS-DVR solution eliminates the equipment in the home and provides a managed service for the storage and play-out of broadcast content. Capabilities are similar to the DVR. The solution can also create a "media chain" that allows the addition of value-added services during the delivery process, such as advertising insertion, real-time trans-coding and scaling, and interactive overlays. These features help service providers create new revenue streams, increase advertising dollars, reduce subscriber churn, and open up the potential for new services.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirements gathering & analysis.  • Involved in Design, Development, Testing and Integration of the application.  • Designing JSP using Java Beans.  • Used HTML, DHTML, Java script and AJAX for implementing dynamic media play outs.  • Involved in preparation of scope and traceability matrix for requirements and test scripts.  • Implementing business logic and data base connectivity.  • Client side installation and configuration of project.  • Implemented Struts (Action and Controller classes) for dispatching request to appropriate class.  • Used simple Struts Validation for validation of user input as per the business logic and initial data loading.  • Co-ordinate Application testing with the help of testing team.  • Writing database queries on Oracle 9i and Involved in the JDBC queries as part of implementation  • Ability to quickly adjust priorities and take on projects with limited specifications.  • Maintained a separate DAO layer for CRUD operations.  • Effective team player with excellent logical and analytical abilities.  • Followed coding guidelines and update the status leads in time.  • Supported the applications through production and maintenance releases.  • Involved in Level 5 company assessment & followed the process.  • Instrumental in tuning the framework to meet the performance standards.  • Excellent written and verbal communication skills, inter-personal skills and self-learning attitude.  • Excellent in designing and developing store procedures  • Involved in writing JUNIT test cases and Code version controlling using SVN.  • Involved in building the code using Ant and the deployment.  Environment: Java 1.4, JSP, Servlets, Struts frame work, Tag libraries, Java Script, CSS, AJAX, JDBC, JNDI, Oracle 8i, Java beans, Struts Validation framework, Windows/UNIX, Ant, JUNIT, SVN, QC, Edit Plus, Web Logic application server, SQL Developer Education Bachelor's Skills HTML (8 years), JAVA (8 years), SQL (8 years), JSP (7 years), SERVLETS (7 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL EXPERTISE:  Languages: C, C++, Java, UML, PL/SQL JAVA & J2EE , JAVA J2EE, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JNDI, JPA, EJB-Session Bean, Entity Bean, JMS, IBM MQ Series, XML, XSD, DTD, JAXP, DOM, SAX, JAXB and XSLT.  Frameworks: Struts, Spring, JSF, Hibernate  Application/Web Server: WebSphere, WebLogic ,JBoss and Tomcat  Web services: SOAP, WSDL, AXIS, CXF, JAX-WS, REST - JAX-RS, CXF, JERSEY  Database: Oracle DB2, MySQL, Sybase, Cassandra  UI Technologies: HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, CSS, AJAX, JSP, JSTL, JSON, JQUERY, DOJO  Core Expertise: Java GOF and J2EE design patterns, Core Java concepts - Collections, Java 1.5 features, Multi-threading, Exception handling, IO, Concurrency etc.  Version control Tools: CA Harvest, CVS, SVN, IBM clear case  Design Tools: Rational Rose, Microsoft Visio, JUDE  Build Tools: Ant, Maven, Mule ESB, Jenkins, Cruise Control  Other Tools: Log4J, SLF4J, TOAD, SQL developer, HP Quality Center, JIRA, EMMA, SOAP UI, FileZilla, Putty, Edit Plus, Geneys SCI/CME, POSTMAN, SQL Server Management Studio, WinSCP  IDEs: RAD, Eclipse, STS, Visual Studio and Net beans  Operating Systems: Windows, Mac, UNIX  SDLC Methodologies: Waterfall, RUP and Agile Software development methodologies