developer <span class="hl">developer</span> developer - JPMC/Mphasis • 13+ years of strong IT experience in all phases of software development life cycle (SDLC) of project & product that includes system analysis, design, development, integration, testing, deployment, trouble shooting and maintenance.  • Strong understanding of Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) concepts, Web Services (SOAP/REST), Spring IOC, MVC, Spring boot and various Design Patterns in J2SE/J2EE.  • A dedicated and highly motivated team player that has a clear understanding of the latest technology and anticipation of market trends.  • Comprehensive experience in development and implementation of Enterprise level Web based Projects involving iPhone, Android, Blackberry, Windows, J2ME platforms for RICH, THIN and SPA channels.  • Working experience on Kony mobile application development platform (MADP) and have executed and delivered projects  • Experience in developing mobile applications using Kony Studio, Kony Visualizer, AWS Cloud, Mobile Fabric (AWS Cloud/On-Premise), Identity Services (OKTA/Azure/LDAP), Integration Services ( Java/XML/JSON/DB connectors), Orchestration Services and Messaging Services  • Experience in developing and deploying Spring boot applications in GAIA cloud foundry (Kubernetes)  • Experience in developing web applications using Struts and all modules of Spring framework includes Spring IOC, Spring ORM, Spring MVC, Spring Jdbc framework and Spring web and application contexts.  • Strong command on Gang of Four (GOF) patterns to implement across the projects.  • Rich experience in deploying of popular J2EE Applications with different application servers like Jboss4.0.5GA, IBM Web Sphere6.0 and BEA Web Logic 9.0 Servers.  • Developed J2EE applications using Java Development tools such as Spring STS, MyEclipse6.1, Net Beans 5.0 and Eclipse 4.3.  • Strong exposure on developing SOAP/REST based web services using Jersey and CXF2.0.  • Expert in Web/User Interface development using HTML, DHTML, CSS, Java Script, and other web development technologies XML.  • Vast experience in implementing Object Relational Mappings using Hibernate.  • Expertise in Working with Version Control tools like CVS, SVN, GIT and Bug-Tracking tools like, ALM (Application Life Cycle Management), JIRA, Jenkins.  • Excellent Analytical, Troubleshooting, Debugging and Problem-solving skills  • Rich experience in working with different RDBMS like Oracle.  • Proven ability to work individually or in a team under strict project deadlines.  • Worked on various domains like-Telecom, Retail, Banking and Solar Power.  • Experience in testing process with Junit  • Experience in building projects using Maven and ANT.  • Experience in automating the web services (SOAP and REST) using Cucumber  • Extended usage and customized logging using log4j.  • Followed and Implemented projects through agile process using Scrum.  • Developed and tested integration / unit test cases using Easy mock. Work Experience developer JPMC/Mphasis May 2017 to Present Environment: Java, J2ee, Spring, Spring IOC, Spring boot, Micro services, JSON, XML, Log4J, GIT, REST, Jenkins, JIRA, Cucumber, Junit, Kubernetes, Pivotal Cloud Foundry    Description: JPMC is a commercial and investment banking company based in New York. The company provides consumer and commercial banking, investment banking, asset management, private banking, private wealth management, treasury and security services.    The Gateway Services Middleware is used to service CCB customers (Auto, Retail, Card, Investments, Commercial and small Businesses) through number of controllers implemented to provide all core GWS services.  GWS is used to communicate with backend mainframe systems and is responsible for all login profile and account retrieval.    Responsibilities:  • Creating the detail level design documents from the stories created by technical business analysts to understand the impact and possible blockers for implementation.  • Conduct design reviews with Technical Business Analysts and within the team  • Estimating effort and creating tasks in Jira board to be picked up in Sprints  • Writing SOAP and Restful webservices to communicate with external systems like Documents, Mortgage systems, SMS, AUTH etc.  • Creating WSDLs and publishing it the external teams for consumption.  • Coding the business logic to call the external webservices using Java/J2EE technologies  • Creating integration tests in GWSTest project and write unit tests using Mockitos for the specific implementations  • Analyzing and fixing any production defects which are related to GWS and performing integration tests before putting the fix in production.  • Creating and reviewing validation plans for any of the implementations related to GWS.  • Conduct peer reviews for all the coded modules and make sure all the coding standards are met.  • Conduction progress review meetings with the customer.  • Using Splunk to analyze the request and response from the webservice for which the bug is reported. The webservice can be related to both upstream or downstream systems which interact with GWS  • Analyze the data and system requirements, conducted meeting with QA team for reviewing test conditions and test scripts.  • Fix the defects and track their progress during QA cycle  • Using Jenkins for continuous integration builds for GWS downstream and upstream builds.  • Creating deployment document and performing validations task after each successful deployment.  • Service automation using Cucumber Technical Lead Regions Bank May 2016 to December 2016 Environment: Java, J2ee, Spring, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Web services, Tomcat, JSON, XML, Log4J, GIT, REST, Jenkins, JIRA, Java Script, Kony Studio, Kony Visualizer, Cloud Computing, Mobile Fabric, IPhone, IPad, Android mobile and Tab.    Description: Regions is a US bank and financial services company based in Birmingham. The company provides retail, commercial banking, trust, security, brokerage, mortgage, insurance products and services.    Kony is involved in developing retail banking mobile application and Web application enhancements for Regions bank. As part of the retail mobile application, we developed below features  • Account Summary  • Payments  • Transfers  • RDC (Remote Check Deposit)  • Contact us  • Locations    Responsibilities:  • Configuring Identity/Integration/Orchestration services (OKTA/LDAP/User Store) in Mobile Fabric  • Implemented logic to get the data from RESTFUL web services and rendered response data to the UI  • Configured spring transactions for all service classes.  • Prepared test cases using Junit with annotations  • Developed RDC (Remote Check Deposit) module for Mobile Application  • Integrated MiSnap SDK into Kony application to support RDC module  • Implemented Exception handling and Logging mechanism across the project  • Implemented encryption and decryption technique for password protection.  • Developed graphs, pie charts and line charts using Kony Mobile Fabric, to display the statistical data to the users.  • Used Spring MVC frame work to implement MVC pattern for this project.  • Implemented Spring IOC to wire service components to action classes.  • Developed spring action classes using Annotation-based Controller Technical Lead Harland Clarke/Kony Hyderabad June 2015 to April 2016 Environment: Java, J2ee, Spring, Spring IOC, Web services, Tomcat, JSON, XML, Log4J, GIT, REST, Jenkins, JIRA, Java Script, IPhone, Kony Studio, Kony Visualizer, Cloud Computing, Mobile Fabric, IPad, Andriod mobile and Tab.    Description: The main aim of the project is to order the checks online through Harland Clarke CAP application. HC has tied up with all the banks in the USA. Customers of all the banks, has to order the checks online through HC CAP application. CAP application is part of banking application.    CAP will support 6 different products (CAC, CAT, CMP, CDA, CH9, and CBS) and 4 different themes (Minions, Dogs, Cats, High security).    Depends on user selection, will capture user selected product details using "queryParam" string and display the details related to that product.    Based on the selected check type, we are charging to the customer through amazon payment gateway service.    Responsibilities:  • Configuring Identity/Integration/Orchestration services in Mobile Fabric  • Developed tax calculation module to calculate the tax depends on the city to which item is delivered  • Implemented Exception handling and Logging mechanism across the project  • Implemented encryption and decryption technique for password protection  • Implemented Spring IOC to wire service components to action classes.  • Implemented configuration servlet to integrate hibernate with spring.  • Configured annotation-based spring transactions for all service classes.  • Prepared test cases using Junit with annotations  • Participated in Sprint planning's  • Developed configuration(XML) files for controllers and hibernate components  • Used code coverage tools like cobetura to gauge the code covered by Junit test cases  • Experience in building projects using Maven and ANT Team Lead Tech Mahindra - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2012 to April 2015 Environment: Java, J2ee, Spring2.0, SpringIOC, Oracle10g, JUnit, Tomcat5.5, SVN, Spring STS, Log4J, Jersy2.0, JavaScript, Linux, Restful Web services, XQuery, Spring MVC, Cron jobs.    Description: CA Mediation Manager provides a solution organization, particularly communication service providers (CSPs) for availability and proactive performance management across their entire service infrastructure, including their SNMP and Non-SNMP devices and EMS (Element Management Systems).    CA Mediation Manager, combined with CA Infrastructure Management - which leverages CA eHealth and CA Spectrum Technologies - provides a scalable and flexible solution to manage these environments    Responsibilities:  • Developed device packs for different customers like Starent(PDSN), Cisco(VOIP), Huawei(5000,2000), Alcatel-Lucent and Vodafone networks  • Participated in Sprint panning and backlog grooming  • Captured performance data from EMS server using FTP/SFTP/SOAP/REST services  • Developed code to capture the inventory data from EMS server and processed to eHealth database  • Developed code to capture the performance data from EMS server and processed to eHealth database  • Developed certification part of the application using CAMM framework  • Deployed certification to the eHealth Database  • Generated Trend reports for the selected metrics in eHealth.  • Developed Java Simulators to simulate the Test data on regular intervals  • Configured Cron jobs in linux environment.  • Experience in building projects using Maven and ANT Sr Java/J2ee Developer Motorola Mobility/TCS - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2011 to July 2012 Environment: Java, J2ee, Spring3.0, Spring Jdbc, SpringIOC, Web Services (SOAP && REST), Oracle10g, JUnit, SVN, SpringSTS, Maven3.0.3, Winscp, Putty, Linux, Selenium    Description: Resource Manager Component will be used in Digital Media Services (VDMS) for activation and deactivation of live streams from a source multicast through various Network Elements.    Developed solutions to Motorola as per Order Specification and delivered in the following modes    Streaming - Adaptive, real Time Progressive Download and Download Network based content delivery services to the end users. The live and linear content will also be delivered to the end users across multiple supported devices as part of multi-screen services.    Implemented key management services to enforce digital rights for on-demand assets.  Implementation mechanism for encrypting live and linear content.    Responsibilities:  • Developed user stories using TTD (Test Driven Development)  • Responsible for Build and Release process after completion of each and every Sprint  • Conducted Knowledge sharing sessions within the Team.  • Developed Resource manager module using RESTFUL web services.  • Developed SOAP && REST based web services using cxf2.0 and Jersey client.  • Responsible for Maven and Jenkin builds  • Developed configuration(XML) files for controllers and hibernate components  • Experience in building projects using Maven and ANT  • Developed web services components using SOAP, WSDL with help of Spring-WS. Sr Java/J2ee Developer Ericsson/TCS - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2009 to June 2011 Environment: Java, J2ee, RMI, NMS, EMS, OSS, NE's, Linux, Clear Case, Junit, FTP, FCAPS (Fault, Configuration, Accounting, Performance and Security), JProfile, Performance Tuning    Description: To maintain the Network Elements remotely on the network, we are using 7 different types of plug-ins. All Plug-ins supports FCAPS (Fault, Configuration, Auto Discovery, Performance and Security) functionality. Each plug-in maintains a separate family of Network elements.    Ex: MTN, MHC, MDRS, MBAs, WNL1000, MLE, ETU  Fault: If there is any problem on the network element, plug-ins raises the alarm and sends it to the element manager. Element Manager is responsible to inform about the fault to the core.    Configuration: We can get the configuration information of the network element by running the inventory    Auto Discovery: We can discover the network elements remotely by giving the IP address of the network element in Element Manager.    Performance: Performance data can be collected in two ways  • 15 min's counter  • 24 hrs counter    Responsibilities:  • Developed Java code to fetch performance data from EMS server.  • Developed simulators using Java code to simulate the performance data  • Developed configuration file to configure alarm message for each of the Network elements  • Participated in enhancements and bug fixing activities of the application  • Improved the performance of the application by using JProfile and heap dump to identify the problem causing objects.  • Developed configuration(XML) files for alarm messages  • Provided effort estimations for Change Requests Sr Java/J2ee Developer Ericsson/TCS - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2007 to May 2009 Environment: Java, J2ee, RMI, NMS, EMS, OSS, NE's, Linux, Clear Case, Junit, FTP, FCAPS (Fault, Configuration, Accounting, Performance and Security), Struts2.0    Description: ECC Prim Tool is used to compare the products between ECC (Ericsson Clear Case) and PRIM (Product Information Tool) and shows the compared results in comparison tab with specific code  numbers. Tool will fetch the data from the PRIM based on the R-state selected from the ECC Vob's    ECC (Ericsson Clear Case) is developed on Rational Clear Case. ECC is not only used as a Version Control, but it contains more features like build, release, inherit and publish    Responsibilities:  • ECC PRIM Tool is features are developed using TTD Approach.  • Participated in Internal code reviews and Validations  • Conducted Knowledge sharing sessions within the team  • Redesigned the ECC Prim tool using Struts MVC architecture  • Used Struts frame work to implement MVC architecture  • Created the Action classes, Action Form classes for the project.  • Configure the web.xml, tile-defs.xml for the application  • Developed web component like JavaScript, JSP, HTML  • Developed Action, Action Form classes for the project.  • Developed user interfaces using JSTL and DHTML  • Configured struts-config.xml for application resources, properties for the project.  • Implemented and Validation and Tiles Frame work for the application  • Wrote java scripts for front end validations and other user interface events. Sr. Java/J2ee Developer CEON/Cybage - Pune, Maharashtra July 2006 to June 2007 Environment: Java/J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JPF, Weblogic Portal, Weblogic Server, UNIX, JUnit, LOG4J    Description: Centennial is a communications service provider in Puerto Rico offering telephony, internet, wireless, wholesale data center and network solutions and services. Centennial is working to  launch a wholesale residential VOIP service. Centennial doesn't have a residential VOIP or telephony  offering today, so this is a new line of business. Assumption is that wholesale customer for Centennial  VOIP residential services will be One Link Communications.    Responsibilities:  • Developed JSP's and JPF's ( Java Page Flows).  • Participated in Enhancements and Bug fixing  • Participated in Knowledge sharing sessions within the teams  • Developed portlet components Sr. Java/J2ee Developer Nifty Corporation - Pune, Maharashtra July 2005 to May 2006 Environment: Java/J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Struts2.0, Web Sphere, VSS, UNIX, JUnit, LOG4J, DB2, PL1    Description: This system has developed in PL1. We migrated this application from PL1 to Java. In this there are three types of customers  • Expected Customers  • Existing Customers  • New Customers  New customer fills the information in the postcard and sends to Senshukai. This customer is registered in the system based on the information he/she has filled.    Customer registration process is done through the Telephone customer registration, Telephone expected customer registration and Post card customer registration. When customer calls the Senshukai call center, the customer can    • Order for a product from the catalogue  • Request the catalogue for a Senshukai    Responsibilities:  • Used Struts frame work to implement MVC architecture.  • Created the Action classes, Action Form classes for the project.  • Configure the web.xml, tile-defs.xml for the application  • Developed web component like JavaScript, JSP, HTML  • Migrated 70000 lines of code from PL/1 to Java.  • Prepared test cases using Junit Framework.  • Provided logging and exception handling across the project.  • Involved in integrating the different modules of the application Education MCA in Computer Applications Osmania University - Hyderabad, Telangana BSC Osmania University - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring Certifications/Licenses Driver's License