Android Developer/Architect Android <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Architect solution architect Dallas, TX Work Experience Android Developer/Architect American Airlines - Dallas, TX April 2016 to Present Responsible for the Android app architecture design and implementation of using MVVM architecture, design patterns and common solutions.  ? Converse with back-end teams to create optimum integration solutions  ? Responsible for evaluating and choosing Android mobile technologies for the implementation of each component and connections between the components.  ? Provide architectural review to shareholders for buy in and guided the team in the implementation.  ? Worked with project management to accurately estimate and scope out projects.  ? Developed the Android app using Android Oreo (Version 8.1)  ? Maintained Android mobile app quality in development through the continuous integration process using Jenkins CI server.  ? Working on PaaS service like OpenStack, AWS and Pivotal Cloud Foundry ( PCF).  ? Used Jenkins as Continuous Integration tools to deploy the Spring Boot Microservices to AWS Cloud and Pivotal Cloud Foundry ( PCF) using build pack.  ? Working with PCF Blobstore for storing and managing Application code packages & Buildpacks.  ? Used SourceTree Git for code repository version control, merge and commits.  ? Produced code to the highest standards while adhering to industry accepted architecture and design pattern techniques and methodologies (e.g., MVP, MVVM, SOA, OOP, DI etc.)  ? Implement RESTful web services consumption with Retrofit and RxJava, parsing JSON objects with GSON.  ? Created animations in the application (view animations, frame animations, tween animations, etc.)  ? Followed Google material design guidelines.  ? Analyzed and critiqued code based on both functional and technical specifications.  ? Commented on code and produced technical documentation to industry standards.  ? Ensured Android cross-device compatibility.  ? Used Jira for documentation, task tracking, backlog management, and meeting preparation.  ? As architect I was involved in requirement gathering, UI design and development.  ? Designed the logical flow for the application for different components.  ? Participated in Scrum meetings, project planning, and coordinated the status sessions.  ? Developed Android native app using Java and Kotlin coding in Android Studio IDE. Sr. Mobile Applications Developer/Architect American Airlines - Dallas, TX December 2012 to March 2016 Worked as a part of the Innovations team as Architect, Design, Development and maintenance of applications, services, and framework functionality for AA's next generation platforms.    ? Responsible for Android app & overall system architecture. Exp. developing & architecting  ? apps that communicate with cloud endpoints using REST Expertise with Linux &Android  ? software development tools (Android Studio, git)  ? Using Kotlin in developing few modules in the application.  ? Handling on debugging Android application issues and fixing the bugs.  ? Working with designing &implementing software for embedded devices &systems.  ? Contribute to the extension of our core Android payment service functionality to support the aforementioned areas  ? Execute rapid prototyping to facilitate proof of concept and demonstrations for complex  ? requirements and features  ? Develop and test the defined requirements with high accountability while managing risks and the potential of evolving requirements.  ? Solve complex challenges specifically related to delivering Android applications and services for the unique requirements of the payment industry  ? Working closely with other functional teams, third parties, and vendors to facilitate the resolution of issues.  ? Implemented the required GUI by making modifications to the XML files.  ? Used Multi-threading to implement parallel processing.    Environment: Android Studio, Rx Java, Kotlin, GenyMotion, SQLite, Dagger, UNIX, Eclipse IDE, media  framework, Java, XML, JIRA, ADB, Log Cat, Web Services, Junit. Sr. Java Developer American Airlines - Fort Worth, TX December 2012 to March 2014 Developed the presentation layer written using JSP, HTML, CSS and client-side validations were done using JavaScript, jQuery, and JSON.  ? Created the design documents with use case diagram, class diagrams, sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  ? Implemented the MVC architecture using Apache Struts1.1 Framework.  ? Implemented Action Classes and server-side validations for account activity, payment history, and Transactions.  ? Implemented views using Struts tags, JSTL2.0 and Expression Language and implemented Tiles Framework for the layout of the view.  ? Implemented session beans to handle the business logic for fund transfer, loan, credit card & fixed deposit modules.  ? Worked with various java patterns such as Service Locator and Factory Pattern at the business layer for effective object behaviors.  ? Worked on the JAVA Collections API for handling the data objects between the business layers and the front end.  ? Worked with JAXB, SAXP and XML Schema for exporting data into XML format and importing data from XML format to data base and JAXB in the web service's request response data marshaling as well as the unmarshalling process.  ? Implemented the web services client to consume the third-party service API for validating credit cards. Used XML Web Services using SOAP to transfer the amount to transfer application that is remote and global to different financial institutions.  ? Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) for the reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information such as payment status report.  ? Developed Unit test cases using JUnit and developed ant scripts and developed builds using Apache ANT.  ? Used Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions and used Clear Case for source code maintenance.  Environment: HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JDK, J2EE, JSP, Servlet, XML, SOAP, Oracle, log4j, W3C, Web Sphere Application Server. Sr. Distributed Applications Developer Federal Reserve Bank - Dallas, TX March 2010 to November 2012 Check21 Web Check21 is suite of applications providing file movement and monitoring capabilities for the Federal Reserve's electronic checking system (all districts). The main applications for this project are the DTM and EFM applications. The DTM (Data Transfer Manager) is the hub for file movement. The EFM application provides file monitoring capabilities for the files as they are moved from one location to another.    Responsibilities:  ? Participated in the design and development of Outgoing Files from IPD to DTM module.  ? Extensively uses Agile methodology, used scrum tool for logging various time estimations and various logs of applications. Activities are divided as 2 weeks Sprint.  ? Used Spring (MVC) Framework to develop the application. Used Factory, DAO, Singleton and DTO and Value Object, Business Delegate design patterns.  ? Created and maintained Stateless session beans for handling multiple users using EJB 2.0  ? Used Rational Rose to draw UML diagrams and to develop the Use cases, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Class Diagrams.  ? Implemented the Spring framework for Dependency Injection (DI/IoC).  ? Used IBM MQ Series in the project.  ? Configured MQ Connection Factory, Queue names in Websphere Admin console.  ? Created MDB on receiver side to listen the messages from sender using JMS API.  ? Developed automation and process for operations and deployment of application in a message broker environment.  ? Developed Microservices to communicate using synchronous protocols HTTP and REST for implementing SOA.  ? Used Websphere V6.1 application server.  ? Worked on creating new reports and modify existing reports.  ? Implemented the Spring-ORM for Hibernate using the Hibernate Template class.  ? Designed and developed the Object Relational mapping using Hibernate to store and persist data in Oracle database.  ? Involved in writing the associations for the query in xml mapping files in Hibernate.  ? Developed SQL queries and Stored Procedures using PL/SQL to retrieve and insert into multiple database schemas.  ? Developed JUNIT test cases for unit testing.  ? Intensively worked on IBM RAD7 (Rational Application Developer) Environment and Tools.  ? Used JIRA for tracking the Activities, Tasks and Defects.  ? Used CM Synergy to manage the versions and Merge the code.  ? Worked on creating xsd's and castor classes to process files.  ? Upgraded Java 1.2, WSAD & WAS 5.0 to Java 1.5, RAD, WAS 7.1. Fixed issues that occurred in the migration process.  ? Documented the Migration process to make it easy for future migrations.  ? Used Log4j for writing the logs including errors, info, etc.  ? Created ant build scripts and DOS deployment scripts to handle staging in QA & Preprod environments.    IBM Payment Director (IPD)  IPD is new system which replaces the existing legacy Check21 System. These new applications are FRB Incoming, FRB Outgoing, and Fed Receipt and will take the place of the DTM application after full migration to the new IPD platform. Events, Notifications, Handshake Messages are sent to handle monitoring and error handling of these files. New reports are created to check the status of various files types (Accounting, Billing, Cure etc) and resend the files if required.    Responsibilities:  ? Worked on design and development of FRBIncoming, FRBOutgoing, FRBFedReceipt components.  ? Worked on IPD Rules Engine which handles logic to move files either to Check21 or IPD System. This engine handles smooth transition from legacy to new system i.e. IPD. Worked on File Renaming algorithm which renames the files as they arrive in the incoming folder.  ? Created Stale Notification processors which monitors the database and send notifications for any delayed files.  ? Worked on new web reports for displaying various messages.  ? Used DOJO framework for creating the web reports.  ? Worked on EJBS to handle the processing of the various messages sent by FRBIncoming, Outgoing  ? Created handlers using the JMS API for sending/processing messages.  ? Worked on bug fixes & enhancements.  ? Created Junits and worked on creating utility classes for doing performance testing.  ? Worked on Resend Message Handlers to resend the messages and reset the processing of files if any error occurs.  ? Worked on Application server to create/configure queues, data sources, listeners and resources.  ? Worked on File Handlers to create, listen, process files of various types Accounting, Billing, Cure/EWA, and Deposit/Derived/Presentment files.  ? Converted the file handlers in to RESTful web Services using JAX-RS API.  ? Developed JUNIT test cases for unit testing.  ? Used CM Synergy to manage the versions and Merge the code.    Environment: Java JDK 1.5, J2EE, Spring, EJB, Oracle10g, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, Javascript, XML, HTML, DOJO, UML, JMS, Agile, Websphere 6.1, RAD7, IBM MQ Series, Rational Rose, CM Synergy, SVN, JIRA, ANT, Log4j. Hibernate 2.5, SQL, PL/SQL, JUnit, LoadRunner. Java/J2EE Full Stack Developer Benefit Harbor - Dallas, TX August 2009 to February 2010 Benefit Harbor is a benefit based system which seamlessly integrates a world of benefits on one powerful system. Benefit Harbor makes administration easier and accurate by providing daily transactions and generating different reports like Carrier and Cobra Files. The expansive design takes group and individual benefits like Core health and welfare benefits, voluntary insurance products, FSAs, HRAs, HSAs, COBRA, 401(k) and profit-sharing plans all from any provider in stride and integrates everything.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in gathering the requirements from the Carrier and Group for specific products.  ? Developed Code based on incremental iterative releases using an Agile process (Scrum).  ? Developed class diagrams, sequence and use case diagrams using UML Rational Rose.  ? Designed UI screens using JSP, HTML, JSTL and used JavaScript for Client Side Validations.  ? Developed the component based presentation tier of the application using JSF Framework.  ? Configured the faces-config xml file and provided navigation rules and managed beans.  ? Developed custom JSF components using the ICEfaces component suite.  ? Worked on POC for Spring and JSF Integration.  ? Implemented the Spring framework for Dependency Injection (DI/IoC).  ? Implemented DTO, Business Delegate, Factory and Singleton design patterns.  ? Implemented applications for different products like Health, FSA, Dental and Vision using POJOs according to the Carrier and Groups specifications.  ? Developed POJOs to create Carrier Files, Cobra files and Invoices in the different formats like excel, fixed length, HIPAA regulated formats (.834).  ? Developed the application on Eclipse and used Eclipse plug-in features for editing, debugging, compiling, formatting, build automation, test case template generation, mutator/accessor code generation.  ? Developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQLAlchemy and PostgreSQL.  ? Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  ? Worked with NoSQL database Mongo DB and worked with it to perform many different operations.  ? Created data as a service (DaaS) based Restful (Jersey) web service with Mongo DB data store running on Tomcat 9.  ? Developed unit tests with JUnit and Mockito and have written automated regression tests using JMeter.  ? Hands on experience with Spark streaming to receive real time data making use of ApacheKafka.  ? Responsible for building components to connect to other micro-services using Kafka, Elastic search, REST.  ? Developed CI/CD pipeline and build tasks to run the unit tests on Jenkins and maintained separate build in Maven for the module for easy integration to the portal build and configure with Jenkins (Integration tool).  ? Used Apache Camel for Beans Binding and seamless integration with Spring Frameworks and for routing unit test.  ? Used Data Access Object (DAO) pattern to introduce an abstraction layer between the business logic tier and the persistent storage tier (data source).  ? Performed Unit Testing Using JUnit and Load testing using LoadRunner.  ? Implemented Log4J to trace logs and to track information.  Environment: Java 1.5, JSF, ICEFaces, Spring 2.5/Spring 3.0 RC, JSP, JavaScript, POJO's, Hibernate 2.5, SQL, PL/SQL, Log4j, JUnit, Visual Source Safe, Altova XmlSpy, Eclipse 3.4, JBOSS, IBM WebSphere, DB2, APACHE Axis, LoadRunner. Education Bachelors of Technology in Computer Science Engineering in Computer Science Engineering Jawaharlal Technological University Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Javabeans, Jax, Jax-rpc, Jax-ws, jquery, Jsp, Servlet, Servlets, Api, Curl, Gradle, Html, Javascript, Node.js, Jenkins, Android, IOS (10+ years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages Java 1.8, J2EE, Scala 2.12.1, Python  Web Technologies SERVLETS 3.1, JSP 3.0, JavaBeans 3.0, Java Servlet API 3.0  Frameworks Spring 4.3, Hibernate 4.3, Angular JS 2.0/4.0, Spring Security 3.2  Application/Web servers Apache Tomcat 8, IBM WebSphere 8.x/9.x, Jetty, Jenkins 2.50, WebSphere MQ 7.5  Relational/ No SQL databases Oracle 10g/11g, SQL server 2014/2016, MySQL 5.7, DB2 11.1, MongoDB, Cassandra  Internet Technologies HTML 5, JavaScript 1.8, XML 2.0, CSS 3, jQuery 2.11, Angular JS 2.0/4.0, BackBone.JS 1.3.1, Polymer.JS, Node.js 6.0.  Web Services SOAP 1.2, REST 2.0, JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS,  Cloud Environments Azure, AWS, Netflix Eureka, Mesos, Kubernetes.  IDE Eclipse, NetBeans 8.0.2, IntelliJ 2017.1, Spring Tool Suite (STS) 3.8.3  Methodologies Agile, waterfall, TDD (Test-Driven-Development), Scrum  Build Tools Ant 1.10, Maven 3.3.9, Gradle 3.4.1  Bug Tracking Tools JUnit 4.12, JIRA 7.0, Bugzilla 4.4.12, Curl 7.36