Senior Mulesoft Developer Senior Mulesoft <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Mulesoft Developer - BP-Lightwell INC Madison, WV • 10+ Years of experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) that includes Requirements Gathering, Analysis, Design, Implementation, Maintenance and Testing using various methodologies using MuleSoft ESB and Java/J2EE experience in integration.  • Mule ESB experience with implementing Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA) and Enterprise Application Integration (EAI) using Mule Server 3.x.  • Implemented Mule flows for different modules, which process files and emails from different systems. Developed Mule ESB projects for the services with synchronous and asynchronous mule flows.  • Utilized Mulesoft features like Data Weave, API designer and various connectors to ensure robust and loosely coupled integration layer every time. Worked on messaging using Active MQ.  • Created Mule ESB based tooling suite for handling message transitioning, validation, enrichment and routing to upstream and downstream entity data consumers.  • Expertise in using MuleSoft studio in creating various flows to integrate API, Databases and SAAS applications.  • Extensive experience on using mule connectors like FTP, FILE, SFTP, etc. as a part of integration usage.  • Experience developing on the Mule ESB platform to deliver SOAP & REST based APIs.  • Experience in RESTFUL client to interact with the services by providing the RESTFUL URL mapping.  • Experience developing on RESTFUL/SOAP web services in Mule ESB based on SOA architecture.  • Experience in MEL - Mule Expression Language to access and evaluate the data in the payload, properties and variables of a Mule message. Experience using GitHub, Jenkins, and Nexus technologies.  • Used XML, XSD, DTD and Parsing APIs SAX and DOM XML based documents for information exchange.  • Experience using Salesforce and Workday Web Service APIs.  • Worked on both Enterprise and Community edition of MULE ESB. Had an experience developing an API using RAML.  • Experience in deploying Mule Applications to Mule ESB and Mule CloudHub along with experience in configuring logging and alerting in Cloud Hub  • Extensive experience in SQL, Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers with databases such as Oracle, and MS SQL Server.  • Hands on experience with JUnit, M Unit and Log4j in developing test cases and determining application functionality.  • Hands on experience designing RAML specs, building APIs using API Kit in Mule applications  • Experienced in developing Mule ESB flows and integrations by using service-oriented architecture (SOA) and enterprise application integration (EAI) using Mule Runtimes.  • Extensively worked on both Enterprise and Community edition of MULE ESB. Have an experience working MULE API manager and RAML.  • In-depth understanding of Data Structures and Algorithms.  • Up to date Knowledge with the latest industry trends in UI design and usability.  • Excellent communication and interpersonal skills, quick learner, self-motivated, ability to work individually and in a team environment as well with good team spirit. Work Experience Senior Mulesoft Developer BP-Lightwell INC - Naperville, IL July 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in Agile scrum meetings, updating the tasks based on the user stories in VSTS.  • Designed and Developed the Mule Flows using Amazon SQS and SNS and Implemented SQS and SNS to asynchronously create, Read, send messages and events to Queues and Topics  • Business requirements gathering and analysis by interacting with the customer.  • Done with preparation of design document specifications, troubleshoots and testing.  • Used Mule ESB in designing the application as a middleware between the third-party system and the customer side system.  • Work closely with functional leads/PMs to understand the partner integration requirement  • Used Database Connectors to connect with respective systems using Mule ESB.  • Experience in developing interfaces between Salesforce and Oracle ERP using Informatica Cloud/Mule ESB technologies.  • Extensively used Mule OOB components like File Transport, SMTP Transport, FTP/SFTP Transport, JDBC Connector, and Transaction Manager.  • Designed and Developed Restful API's using API Designer; generated flows using RAML file.  • Used JMS to pass messages as payload to track different statuses, milestones and statuses to implement a workflow management flow.  • Done with integrations using connectors such as Sale force, Database, HTTP, FTP and File Connectors.  • Created the MULE ESB artifacts, created flows and configured the MULE configuration files, install & deployed the application.  • Implemented Mule flows for each entity with retry mechanisms with private flows.  • Created http inbound & outbound flows, routing, orchestration, transformations and Security of MULE ESB application using OAuth.  • Mule data mapping, connecting SOAP and REST web services to Mule and use of Mule connectors and plug-ins for web services, including Mule CXF as well as connectors for direct database access.  • Implemented choice, global, custom exception handling mechanisms based on the business requirement in MULE ESB.  • Used Mule Custom transformers for mapping flat file structures to Salesforce interface structures.  • Involved in Transformations using Data Weave, and Custom Java Transformers to transform data from one format to another format using Mule ESB  • Involved in writing batch jobs to run jobs asynchronously at specific schedule times and transformations using Data Weave.  • Implemented and consumed SOAP web services and tested using SOAP UI for Mule ESB flows.  • Used MuleESB CXF component in the Mule configuration file to consume SOAP web services.  • Created REST based service interfaces using Mule ESB Anypoint Platform and delivered fast, reliable and scalable integration API codes.  • Created flows/sub-flows using various scopes, transformers and routers such as splitter and aggregator in Anypoint Studio.  • Involved in creating http inbound & outbound flows, transformers, filtering and Security of Mule flows.  • Experience with integration Patterns, integration tools, EAI, Transformations, XML Schemas, and XSLT.  • Architected Integrations using Mule ESB environments for both on premise and cloud environments.  • Configuring the Mule process for fetching the data from topic and makes web service calls to the middle tier Mule ESB for processing and put the data on the Cloud hub.  • Used Cloud Hub connector in the flows to trigger alerts during exceptions and captured the failed records for further recovery.  • Used GitHub for version and source control and Active MQ for Asynchronous messaging.  • Involved in unit testing and writing the MUnit Test cases for the flows.  • Responsible to prepare deployment plan and do the production deployment to CloudHub using Jenkins CI platform.  • QA, UAT & Production issues investigation and supporting business users.  Environment: Mule ESB 3.9.0, AnyPoint Studio 6.4.4, API router, Amazon SQS Queues, Amazon SNS Topics, RAML, Oauth 2.0, MUnit, JSON, XML, SOAP, JUNIT, Munit, Bitbucket, Source tree, Apache Maven 3.3.9. SeniorMulesoft Developer Medtronic - Carlsbad, CA April 2015 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Agile -Sprint methodologies to do requirements gathering, analysis and planning, development & testing.  • Involved in Agile scrum meetings, updating the tasks based on the user stories in Rally.  • Used Mule ESB in designing the application as a middleware between the third-party system and the customer side system.  • Developed a RAML based REST web service API's using API Kit Router in Mule.  • Published RAML API's as an Endpoint Proxy via the API Gateway and deployed the Mule Deployable Archive in the Mule Management Console (MMC)  • Building, Deployment and Configuration Management of the source code to WAS servers.  • Used Any Point Studio IDE for the development process.  • Implemented SSL configuration for secured transmission of messages.  • Created Mule ESB helper class to call the Mule flow, connection end point and connectors directly from Java component instead of creating another Mule Flow.  • Defined the System Interfaces (XSD), created Mule ESB flows, performed payload transformation & developed middleware data Entity Mapping Solution.  • Developed an Integration Component with third party application using Mule ESB.  • Implemented JMS to asynchronously send messages.  • Used Java Message Service (JMS) API to create, send, receive, and read messages to main asynchronous.  • Created Maven Archetypes for generating fully functional REST web service supporting both XML and JSON Message transformation.  • Experience in Mule Soft Any point API platform on designing and implementing Mule API's.  • Involved in Transformations using Data Weave, and Custom Java Transformers to transform data from one format to another format using Mule ESB.  • Work with external 3rd parties to integrate their web services with the gateway  • Integrating data using Sales Force, JMS, HTTP, Web-Service connectors.  • Used Web Service Consumer Connector to consume the Web services in Mule.  • Deployed Mule applications into MMC (Mule Management Console).  • Performed Admin Tasks using MMC and worked on troubleshooting the deployment fails using MMC.  • Configuring the Mule process for fetching the data from topic and makes web service calls to the middle tier Mule ESB for processing and put the data on the Cloud hub.  • Created Jenkins user guide documentation and provided to users.  • Involved in bug fixes and production support.  Environment: Mule ESB 3.9.0, AnyPoint Studio 6.4.4, API router, Amazon SQS Queues, RAML, Oauth 2.0, MUnit, JSON, XML, SOAP, JUNIT, Munit, Bitbucket, Source tree, Apache Maven 3.3.9. Senior Mule ESB Developer CSRA - Albany, NY January 2013 to March 2015 Responsibilities:  • Responsible and involved in the analysis, defining, prototyping, implementation and deployment of full software development life-cycle (SDLC) of the project.  • Designed and implemented the application in Agile - methodologies.  • Designed the applications using Mule ESB as a middleware between third-party systems and the systems at our customer side.  • Done with preparation of design document specifications, troubleshoots and testing.  • Implemented various REST services using Mule API Platform.  • Developed the integration flows using Mule ESB 3.6.2 framework.  • Performed integrations using different connectors like Sales Force, Database, SAP, HTTP, SFTP, FTP and file connectors.  • Implemented integration flows using Mule Any point studio to connect to REST, SOAP service, Oracle Database, and Active MQ broker.  • Strong knowledge and hands on experience in documenting and designing REST API's using RAML File.  • Written MUnit test cases to validate the Mule Flows.  • Involved in creating http inbound & outbound flows and orchestration using XPath using MULE ESB.  • Implemented asynchronous messaging using Active MQ and AWS Suite.  • Worked on various Mule connectors / adapters, developing API, APM and developing services on Cloud Hub.  • Used Mule ESB for routing, filtering and aggregate message between application based on content and rules.  • Used Data Base Connectors to connect with respective systems using Mule ESB.  • Developing Mule ESB projects for the services with synchronous and asynchronous Mule flows.  • Implemented Mule flows for different modules, which process files and emails from different systems.  • Used Mule Flows with Data Mapper to customize XML to CSV mapping conversion.  • Developing and securing CXF web services in Mule ESB.  • Working knowledge of API management using AnypointAPI management tools.  • Involved in writing batch jobs to run at specific schedule times and transformations using Data Weave.  • Experienced in implementing Mule Secure Token Service (STS) OAuth to mule Service Oriented Architecture (SOA)  • Architected Integrations using Mule ESB environments for both On-Premise and Cloud hub environments.  • Used MMC (mule management console) to monitor the request and response payload.  • Configuring the Mule process for fetching the data from topic and makes web service calls to the middle tier Mule ESB for processing and put the data on the Cloud hub.  • Implemented data transformation using XPATH, XSLT, Data Weave, Custom java classes.  • Developed Mule flows to integrate Data from various sources into Database, from ActiveMQ topics and queues, some transformations were also done at the integration layer.  • Develop Message Driven Beans (MDB) & involved in building and accessing a web Services using SOAP over JMS.  • Used Log4Jto capture the log that includes runtime exceptions, monitored error logs and fixed the problems.  • Used AMQP Endpoints to connect to RabbitMQ which is a messaging queue.  • Configured connection pooling using WebSphere application server. Developed and deployed the Application on WebSphere using ANT build.xml script.  • Formulated build and deployment using Maven to deploy the artifacts to Cloud Hub.  • Used Git hub for version control for code commit and update.  Environment: Mule ESB, Anypoint Studio, JAVA, Servlets, JDBC, JAXB, ActiveMQ, RAML, RabbitMQ, APM, Nexus, Maven, Cloud Hub, XML, XSLT, CSS, Ajax, JSTL, WebSphere, LDAP, SQL, Log4J, Web Services - WSDL, SOAP, CXF, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, Jenkins, GitHub. Java/J2EE Developer Thomson Reuters - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2010 to December 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering requirements and built technical specifications from the requirements and also involved and participated in Code reviews.  • Designing the application using JISI framework and Spring framework.  • Used Hibernate Transaction Management, Spring/Hibernate Batch Transactions, and Hibernate cache concepts.  • Developed user interfaces using JavaScript, JQuery, HTML, XHTML, CSS custom tags.  • Developed web application using JSP custom tag libraries, Struts Action classes and Action, Java Servlets and Objects using J2EE standards.  • Designed Use Cases, Class Diagrams, and Sequence Diagrams using Visual Paradigm to model the detail design of the application.  • Application was built on JISI- MVC framework and Hibernate as business layer. Designed and developed the GUI using Java Script and JSP.  • Involved in development of Servlets/JSP and documenting all the components clearly.  • Created tile definitions, Struts-config files, validation files and resource bundles for all modules using Struts framework.  • Extensively used XML Web Services for transferring/retrieving data between different providers and implemented them using CXF Framework.  • Consumed Web Services (WSDL, SOAP, UDDI) from third party for authorizing payments to/from customers.  • Involved working with Oracle 11g database and implemented Exception Handling with custom Exceptions framework.  • Involved in coding for JUnit Test cases, ANT for building the application.  • Created Daily Rolling Log using Log4j and Used PVCS as Version Control System.  • Using WebSphere application server for deploying the web content and all code was written using the Rational Application Developer (RAD) IDE.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Hibernate, J2EE, JISI, Spring, JSP, JDBC, JavaScript, XML, DTD, RAD, IBM WebSphere application server 7.0, JUnit, Log4j, Oracle 11g, SQL, PL/SQL, SQL Developer, Windows. Java Developer CGI - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2008 to August 2010 Responsibilities:  • Involved in client requirement gathering, analysis& application design.  • Created Use cases, Class Diagrams, and Sequence Diagrams for the system using JUDE UML modeling tool.  • Implemented server side programs by using Servlets and client side by using JSP and designed, developed and validated User Interface using HTML, JavaScript, and CSS.  • Created the UI tool - using Java, XML, DHTML, and JavaScript.  • Extensively used Java Server Pages, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS and HTML for developing visually appealing User Interface pages of the web modules.  • Performed application level logging using log4j for debugging purpose and also involved in fine tuning of application.  • Thoroughly involved in testing phase & implemented test cases by writing with the Junit.  • Wrote stored procedures using PL/SQL for data retrieval from different tables.  • Worked extensively on bug fixes on the server side and made cosmetic changes on the UI side.  • Part of performance tuning team and implemented caching mechanism and other changes.  • Recreated the system architecture and created numerous class and sequence diagrams.  • Developed using Struts Framework, developed action classes, form beans and Struts-Tiles.  • Created combined deployment descriptors using XML and Design and development UI using HTML, JSP and Struts where users have all the items listed for auctions.  • Developed Authentication and Authorization modules where authorized persons can only access the inventory related operations.  Environment: JDK1.4, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XML, Struts, JSP, Servlet, JNDI, J2EE, Tomcat, Rational Rose, Oracle. Skills Dtd, Git, Html, Javascript, Json Additional Information Technical Skills:  Mulesoft 3.9, Anypoint Studio V6,Splunk  Languages: HTML, HTML5 and XML, Java, SQL, PL/SQL  Development Tools: Eclipse, My Eclipse, RAD and NetBeans  Web Services: SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, JAX-RS, REST-Jersey, JAX-WS, XFIRE, CXF, AXIS  DB Servers: Oracle, DB2, SQL Server & MYSQL - SQL & PL/SQL  Internet Technologies: HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, XML, DTD/XSD, XSTL, DOM/SAX, JAXP, JAXB, JSON, JQUERY, DOJO, Angular JS  Version Control tools: VSTS,GIT, IBM Clear case and SVN