Lead Developer Lead <span class="hl">Developer</span> Lead Developer - Charter Communications Inc • Over 18 years of experience in programming with Over 10 years of experience in leading  development teams of Web and Enterprise Java / J2EE applications.  • Expertise in Object Oriented Analysis, Design and Development (OOAD) methodologies.  • Experience in Financial, Banking, Life Sciences, Media, Tolling and Telecomm domains.  • Knowledge of hot emerging technologies, adapt to new technologies at fast pace and apply them  for solving business problems.  • Agile Methodology.  • Excellent Analytical & problem-solving skills with attention to detail with Persistence,  Teamwork and Communication.  • Work effectively by prioritizing issues during multiple crises, escalation or high severity  situations. Blend in work seamlessly with peers and other teams. Work Experience Lead Developer Charter Communications Inc - Greenwood Village, CO March 2017 to Present Charter Communications is a biggest fastest growing TV, internet and Voice company. Delivers a wide range of TV, internet and voice services to residential and business customers through the  Spectrum brand. Spectrum portals such as spectrum.net, spectrumbusiness.net, spectrum mobile, spectrum TV, spectrum guide, spectrum university are used by customers to manage their account  settings, pay their bills, access support, and watch live television. Charter's cloud-native  applications are built using a host of modern technologies and a highly-scalable micro services  architecture.    Key Responsibilities:  Lead Offshore and Onsite teams by involving in requirement analysis, engage product and the Architect teams and communicate to all the stake holders and make sure the project design and  implementation is successfully completed as per the requirements oversee application is well  tested and production ready.  Design and Development of Unified ID project that is responsible for building out the backend  services needed for unifying the experience of Charter, TWC and BHN customers across username creation, recovery and reset functionality flows via a common unified flow.  Development and Support of cloud-based Domain Micro Services that are used by all the Charter  portals.  Design and Development of UnifiedAuthn Middle Service to authenticate the logged in users either by manual or auto access flow against PING.  Containerize all the legacy micro services so that it can be deployed as containers in Kubernetes  cluster.  Development and support of legacy AuthnMiddle application that communicates to eDirectory and IDM for different MSOs  Design and Development of Effie application that communicates to IT Services and stores the  live domain data in Mongo Cache to serve all the Charter applications.    Environment:  Java 1.8, RX- Java, Google Guice Framework, Java Web Services (REST), AWS, Kubernetes, Docker, MongoDB, GIT Stash, Maven, Junit.    Company: Cognizant Technology Solutions Diversity Analysis/Inventory module Lead Verizon - Tampa, FL October 2016 to March 2017 Fiber Inventory Management System is a suite of geospatial tools and capabilities that simplifies  planning and engineering of Verizon's Owned and leased Wireline and Wireless fiber assets. FIM  supports outside plant design and record keeping and drives efficient fiber deployment capital  decisions through analytics and cost modeling- Various features supported by FIM application are  Fiber Availability, Trace Network, Diversity Analysis, IOF Analysis, Fiber Cut Analysis, Fiber  Tracking etc. These above features helps in provisioning information within a fiber sheath, having the ability to view IOF cables and Ring at street level, showing aggregate/non-aggregate  map of IOF cables and compliments and generating multiple ring diverse violation reports for given circuits, Scids and Central Offices.    Key Responsibilities:  • Delivery of Diversity Analysis and Fiber Inventory Management Modules.  • FIM-DART Integration to support Diversity Analysis within a study case.  • Requirement Analysis and design.  • Co-ordinate with offshore resources and make sure all the features are implemented as per the requirement.  • Doing code reviews and making sure the developed code is adhered to the coding standards.  • Co-ordinate with the Business Users to understand the requirements and demo the completed  features to the Users.    Company: Cognizant Technology Solution. Java Developer Lead 3M - Austin, TX October 2015 to October 2016 3M TSSD is presently developing an automated tolling solution for one of the US state tolling  authority. The Toll Roadside Equipment (TRSE) will be fully automated Electronic Toll  Collection (ETC) system including Automatic Vehicle Identification (AVI) and image based  tolling (i.e., vehicles without a transponder), through the capture of transponder IDs and/or front  and rear license plate images. The TRSE will perform Optical Character Recognition (OCR) on the captured license plate images. The Toll Facility HOST (TFH) provide the interface between the TRSE and the SRTA Back Office System (SRTA BOS). The TFH includes Lane Data  Accumulator (LDAS), Trip Building, Dynamic Pricing System (DPS), and Image Review  capabilities. In addition, the TFH will provide a Vehicle Signature Recognition (VSR) capability to provide enhanced Automatic License Plate Recognition (ALPR) and vehicle identification.    Key Responsibilities:  • Responsible for delivery of TZC and TFH modules.  • Requirement Analysis, design and development of DPS module.  • Developed various schedulers to collect Traffic Data from ITS (Intelligent Transportation  Systems), Smooth Traffic Data and Calculate Toll Price Rates for each pricing segment/Trip OD pair.  • Calculate the Default Rates for the future dates using the Historical Rates for the given  Historical Average  days and the Time Interval.  • Provide Rest API's to give Calculated Rates to the Trip Construction Module for a given  trip/OD Pair at a specific time interval.  • Notify the NS module in case of any alerts during traffic data collection and rate calculations.  • Developed various Rest API's for creating/updating various Sensors (Toll Points, Sensors, Trip  OD pairs, TRCMS, Facility, and Pricing Segments), rate plans and configuration parameters.  • Developed Rest API"s to view the latest dynamic rates along with the traffic data.  • Co-ordinate with offshore for GUI changes and do the integration testing.  • Communicate to the business and QA team.    Environment:  Java 1.7, Spring 3.0, Java Web Services (REST), Hibernate, Linux, Oracle, SVN, GIT, Maven, Junit, Spring DATA JPA.    Company: Cognizant Technology Solutions Lead Java Developer 3M - Austin, TX March 2015 to October 2015 3M TSSD is presently developing an automated tolling solution for one of the US state tolling  authority which required to meet a set of performance guide lines. To meet the required  performance parameters, multiple toll points will have to be built in a test environment causing  significant cost increase. To avoid high costs, a sensor and toll point simulation framework was  envisaged to test the devices and tolling application both of which are under development during the time. TRAVISS is designed with a view to address multiple system requirements:  • To inject simulated toll point sensor data into the TZC subsystem  • Capable of generating Toll Rate Changeable Message Sign (TRCMS), AVI reads transactions  and associated virtual toll point transactions from any live transaction  • Act as GP Lane Scan Site Server (aka GP Lane Scan site simulator), to assist in the verification  of various  requirements that would be otherwise be difficult and/or cost prohibitive, to replicate in live  vehicle passages  • Act as a Lane Trip Simulator (LTP), to assist in the testing of the TFH Trip construction, for functional and stress/performance verification.    Key Responsibilities:  • Requirement Analysis, design and development of Traviss Web Application.  • Co-ordinate with offshore resources and make sure all the features/algorithms are implemented  as per the requirement.  • Doing code reviews and making sure the developed code is adhered to the coding standards.  • Co-ordinate with the Business and the QA team.    Environment:  Java, Spring 3.0, Java Web Services (REST), Hibernate, Linux, Oracle, SVN, GIT, Maven, JUnit. Technical Lead Abbott Diagnostics - Irving, TX May 2014 to February 2015 Abbott Link group delivers remote diagnostics, remote support and tools for Abbott. Abbott Link  connectivity provides real time-access to instrument information for quicker trouble shooting and thus improving the customer satisfaction. Currently working on Oxygen System that has four  objectives, capturing real time instrument data from Abbott Link Enterprise, collect metadata of log files uploaded from the instruments, retrieve utilization related data from DRM Database and  provide interfaces for external applications used by service quality and business users.    Key Responsibilities:  • Requirement Analysis, design and development of Metrics Web Application that is used for the data analytics.  • Designed and developed Rest based Web Services for Metrics Web Application.  • Design and development of Oxygen project that captures Real Time Data/File Upload data, processes and  stores it in Oxygen/IDA database to be accessed by the external Systems.  • Leading/Managing offshore resources for developing UI layer for Metrics application.    Environment:  Java, Spring 3.0, Java Web Services (REST), Drop Wizard Framework, JAXB, Hibernate, Active  MQ, XML, Linux, Oracle, SVN, Maven, Junit    Company: Cognizant Technology Solutions Senior Java Developer Scripps Networks Interactive - Austin, TX November 2012 to March 2014 Manage creation and archive of recipes and related metadata, including:  • Rights and Restrictions.  • Relationships to other media assets including still images and videos (episodic, specials etc ).  • Relationships between Recipes (a version of Food Network recipe repurposed for Cooking  channel)  • Track Usage (for example: cookbook, web promo, etc )  • Enable automated distribution and/or syndication of recipe content.  • Allow authorized staff to easily search for and access recipes with rights information and related  media  assets.    Key Responsibilities:  • Used Agile Methodology like Scrum for the application development.  • Developed Web based applications Entrée and Culinary dashboard.  • Modification/Enhancement to Snidbit Web Application for Recipe related projects.  • Designed and developed/Maintained SOAP/REST based Java Web Services Recipe Task  Service, Receta, Yummy, Asset Entity Service, Asset Registration Service, Recipe Ingestion Service for Recipe  Management  System.  • Production support of all Recipe Management Applications.    Environment:  Java, Spring MVC, Java Web Services, SOAP, REST, JAXB, Hibernate, XML, Linux, Oracle, SVN, JSP, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Maven, Spring 3.0, Jenkins, Sonar, Rally, JUnit. Java Developer/Lead Rackspace - San Antonio, TX July 2012 to October 2012 Incident Service Layer acts as the middle layer that exposes REST API's. Customers open  incidents using REACH portal that internally calls the ISL API's. As part of the Unified  Ticketing project the goal is to make all the Rackspace systems and customer facing portals to communicate to ISL layer for opening incidents.    Key Responsibilities:  • Mentoring and Managing offshore team during coding and testing phase.  • Used Agile Methodology like Scrum for the application development.  • Designed and developed REST based Web Services for Remote Booking Automation System.  • Maintenance and Enhancements of Restful API's developed for REACH portal.  • Maintenance and Enhancements of schedulers to Sync Tickets/Incidents from the End Ticketing  system  Zendesk to ISL DB  • Developed feature files, implemented step definitions using ruby and groovy as part of the cucumber  tests for the BDD process.    Environment:  Java, XML, JSON, Linux, Oracle, GIT, Java Web Services, SOAP, REST, JAXB, Maven, Spring  3.0, Hibernate, IntelliJ, Groovy, Spock Framework, Ruby, Cucumber, Jenkins, Hudson, Sonar, Version One.    Company: E*Trade Financials Java Developer/Lead Menlo Park, CA October 2005 to July 2012 Customers open brokerage account, bank account and Global Trading accounts in order to trade  within US and in overseas. During my tenure at E*Trade have managed the entire brokerage, bank and global trading account opening applications.    Key Responsibilities:  • Worked as a Senior Developer/Lead in Retail Systems group and managed the entire Brokerage  and Bank  Account Opening applications.  • Mentoring and Managing the Offshore team during coding and testing phase.  • Mentoring NCA's to bring them up to speed and helping them prepare for their presentations.  • Designed and developed SOAP based Java Web Services for Online Account Open Application  and Futures  Account Opening application, have used Hibernate for persistence.  • Designed and developed SOAP based wrapper Java Web Services that internally calls various  existing services for Futures Account Opening Application.  • Designed and developed Managed ETF IRA Rollover project for Online Account Opening  Application.  • Lead Futures Account Opening and Genie/Eboss integration project.  • Designed and developed rebuild of Online Account Opening Application using latest and new  technology.  • Designed and developed Real Time Id Verification (RTID) project for brokerage and Bank  Account Opening  applications that is used to reduce the fraudulent activities at E*TRADE. Outside vendor  (LN/TRU and Equifax) is used to obtain user verification.  • Implemented Challenge process for the "Bank & Brokerage" or "Brokerage only" logons.  Outside vendor  (RSA Security/Cyota) is used to obtain risk assessment services.  • Designed and developed Global Trading Account Opening application for retail brokerage  client base that  will allow trading in overseas security markets in respective local currencies.  • Designed and developed various tools in support to the Brokerage applications.  • Involved in the entire process of the software development by leading the project right from getting requirements,  designing, development, testing and by making sure quality product is delivered.  • Excellent and unique problem resolution and debugging skills to systematically isolate and narrow the  scope of the issue and lead it to resolution.    Environment:  Java, XML, JSON, XSL, Linux, Sybase, Oracle, CVS, SVN, Web Services, JAXB, WSDL, Maven, Ant, Spring MVC, Hibernate, JPA, JUnit, Eclipse, Free Marker, AJAX, jQuery. Sr Developer Deutsche Bank June 2003 to August 2005 Market Risk Management tools and applications is used for calculating Market Risk Exposure and to manage historical market data.    Key Responsibilities:  • Worked as a Senior Developer at Deutsche Bank in Frankfurt, Germany and in London, UK and in Bangalore  locations providing development and support to various Market Risk Management tools and applications.  • Developed GETREF and Domain Data Administration tools to manage the historical market  data that will  be used to calculate market risk on portfolios of investments.  • Developed various modules for the Matrix application that is used for calculating Market Risk  Exposure. Technical Consultant CVS June 1998 to August 2002 Role: Technical Consultant  Locations: NC, VA, CA and FL  June 1998 to Aug 2002  Key Responsibilities:  • Worked as a Technical Consultant for IBM at Convergys site in Orlando, Florida in porting  their C++ applications  from Sun-Solaris to AIX. Worked as a Technical consultant for IBM at Broad Vision site in California,  porting their One-to-One enterprise product to AIX.  • Worked as a Technical consultant at IBM, Virginia. Providing maintenance and support to their  banking  applications.  • Resolved various migration issues, linking issues, shared library and runtime issues.  • Developed Service Level Availability API Developed JNI to communicate between the Java  Business  Classes and the Web Server Process for Service Level Availability (SLA). Developing IFS Java  Servlets that reside and run on the CWS server and use the HTML paradigm as the user interface.  • Debugging and fixing the bugs of the Front end and the Web Server Process.  • Effectively communicated with customers, peers, and engineering to resolve customer issues.  Participated and assisted in the creation of technical solutions  • Created a knowledge base, which would help in resolving future problems.  • Worked as a Technical consultant at IBM, North Carolina, providing maintenance and support  to Payment  Registry product that provides a certificate management infrastructure for cardholders, merchants  and  payment gateways (acquirers) to facilitate secure payments over the Internet using SET protocols.  Debugging of Payment Registry code based on customer feedback and interacting with the development  team to make the required changes in the code. Provided Technical Support for the Payment  Registry  application  Major Projects handled:  Porting C++ applications from Sun-Solaris to AIX. And maintenance of the existing IFS  application.  Maintenance and Support to Payment Registry product that provides a certificate management  infrastructure for cardholders, merchants and payment gateways.    Environment:  C, C++, JAVA 1.2, UNIX (AIX), DB2, Netscape Enterprise Server, Web Sphere, MQ-Series, CVS, Clear case Source control. Member of Technical Staff Lucent Technologies - Chennai, Tamil Nadu April 1997 to March 1998 Maintenance of Public Safety Automatic location Identification Translator.    Key Responsibilities:  • Modification and enhancement of the PSAT (Public Safety Automatic location Identification  Translator)  product which is designed for E911 configurations.  • Load Balancing in the switch (Selection of Least Loaded Switch based on CCS usage per Line  Unit).  • PBX enhancement to support working environment for non-5ESS Switches.Unit and Integration  testing of the system.    Environment:  C, UNIX