JAVA Integration Developer <span class="hl">JAVA</span> Integration <span class="hl">Developer</span> JAVA Integration Developer - Department of VA Austin, TX • Overall 12+ Years of experience into Development and Coding of Applications for Client-server.  • Worked extensively in Model View Controller (MVC) architecture for web development using JSF, Struts, Spring, Spring MVC, Spring JAX RS, Hibernate.  • Extensive experience in creation and maintenance of mapping files and transaction control in Hibernate  • Experienced in designing and developing enterprise and web applications using Java and J2EE technologies like Core Java, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JNDI, JPA, JAX-WS, Struts, Spring, ORM (Hibernate), JMS, XML and JUnit.  • I have hands on experience on multithreading programming.  • Good experience with Oracle, MySQL, and SQL Server databases.  • Knowledge on iLog JRules, JBPM, Drools and ODM API.  • Extensive exposure in using IDEs Net Beans, Eclipse and IntelliJ.  • Good experience in Java based reporting tools like Jasper Reporting and iReport tools.  • Experience in implementing complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) for various applications including Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation, Maintenance and Support.  • Design and developed web application using JSF, Spring Web Flow, AJAX technology and front end UI using JSF, Apache MyFaces and Prime Faces UI components.  • Expert level competency in (Core Java, JDBC, Servlet, JSP) Application Development using the frameworks Struts 1.0/1.1/1.2/2.0x.  • Extensive experience in Development, Code Reviews against Coding Standards, Unit testing and Application Integration.  • Experienced in developing applications using different Design Patterns such as Model View Controller, Front Controller Singleton, Facade, and Factory  • Good experience in implementing Junit and Test NG for Unit testing, logging using Log4J, Ant and Maven tool to compile, package and deploy the components to the Application Servers in different environments.  • Experience in UNIX and Linux environments. Work Experience JAVA Integration Developer Department of VA - Austin, TX August 2018 to Present Description: Department of Veteran Affairs applications is having multiple applications to manage and development of the new features requests in VBMS, Chapter33, VLS, EVS, and different types of services to serve the veterans including Compensation service, pension and fiduciary service, Insurance service, Education service, Loan guarantee service, field operations, Appeals management service.    Responsibilities:  • Performing Impact analysis, project analysis and estimations.  • Participated in high-level platform design discussions.  • Involved in design and development of new services layer using Spring core, Spring IOC.  • Created New REST end points in spring boot.  • Used spring rest concepts for converting java object to JSON and xml.  • Administered overall activities related to all the applications.  • Providing the authentication and authorization framework by integrating the CA site minder  • Hosting the new authentication schemes to the new applications or new end points  • Installation of web agents and integrating the application server with policy servers.  • Used core java multithreading concept and wrote server side programming.  • Used java collection concept for business logic in this project.  • Involved in design, build, deployment and migration stages of the project  • Involved in the Configuration, Integration and migration documentation  • Version management of code using GIT.  • Deployed the new end points in all the environments in DEV, TEST, WEBDEVL, PREPROD, PROD.  • Used Log4J for logging and debugging of the application in an efficient manner.  • Involved in them Maintenance and Code changes from existing code, Support of the System.  • Used Oracle database to store, retrieve, and update and manage all the details for veterans benefit tracking and status of the claims and pending claims  Environment: Java, Collections, Multi-Threading JSP, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Micro services, JPA, Maven, Eclipse, Spring core, Active MQ, Oracle, Site Minder, Apache Tomcat, Agile, Source Code Control systems SVN Sub Version, clear Case, Ant, Maven Senior JAVA Developer American Airlines - Irving, TX August 2017 to July 2018 Description: Integration of Oracle Identity Manger in Customer environment, New services implementation in Spring boot to facilitate few of the options through http in product. supporting identity and access management solutions according to client infrastructure requirements.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in design and development of server side layer using Spring IOC, Spring ORM.  • Created New REST end points in spring boot.  • Used spring rest concept for converting java object to JSON and xml.  • Involved in design, build, deployment and migration stages of the project  • Involved in the Configuration, Integration and migration documentation  • Used core java multithreading concept and wrote server side programming.  • Used java collection concept for business logic in this project.  • Involved in configuration of OIM objects for Flat file, MSSQL DB and AD.  • Performed User provisioning and reconciliation from Flat file, DB and AD.  • Version management of code and OIM components, import of OIM components.  • Development of custom workflows  • Configured entitlements, Provisioning and de-provisioning entitlements to users  • Configured Remote design console for Data Governance team  • Used Log4J for logging and debugging of the application in an efficient manner.  • Worked with NoSQL MongoDB to store, retrieve, and update and manage all the details for customer order tracking.  Environment: Java, Multi-Threading, Collections, JSP, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, JPA, Maven, ActiveMQ, JDeveloper Oracle, Talend ,Apache Tomcat, Agile, Source Code Control systems SVN Sub Version, clear Case, Adapater Development Took, Ant, Maven Senior JAVA Developer Telstra - San Francisco, CA May 2016 to July 2017 Description: It is having multiple applications to support the customer registration, verifying the customer identity. Service activation, diagnosis of a failure request hosted by the customers. Customer self-check portal. Developed different types of micro services and hosted these endpoints in APIGEE to directly accessible to the end-users. Project is also to automate the testing between the upstream micro services and downstream micro services.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in design and development of server side layer using Spring IOC, Spring ORM.  • Configured association mappings like one-one and one-many in Hibernate.  • Used Hibernate to persist the data efficiently into database and also integrated it with the Spring ORM framework.  • Applied MVC design pattern using Java Beans, Swing and conducted simultaneous queries and retrievals using Java multithreading techniques.  • Used Hibernate in data persistence layer to access and update information in the database.  • Created New REST end points in spring boot.  • Used core java multithreading concept and wrote server side programming.  • Design and implementation of reusable components within the product Involved in fetching the services from third parties and integration  • Performing Impact analysis, project analysis and estimations.  • Participated in high-level platform design discussions.  • Provided support, structure, advice and guidance to the new team members.  • Used Log4J for logging and debugging of the application in an efficient manner.  • Worked with NoSQL MongoDB to store, retrieve, and update and manage all the details for customer order tracking.  • Administered overall activities related to Configuration Management.  • Distinguished and clarified the change requirements with client team  • Automate testing in-between the upstream and downstream micro services  • Automation Testing and Manual Testing on Web-based applications  Environment: Java, Multi-Threading, Hibernate, Collections, JSP, NoSQL, (Restful), Spring MVC, Spring Boot, POST MAN, Mongo DB, Robo Mongo JIRA, GIT, Stash, Agile, IntelliJ IDE. JAVA Team Lead AIG (ALIP) Accenture - Mumbai, Maharashtra February 2015 to February 2016 Description: Accenture Life Insurance Platform is policy administration software. All the insurance operations starting from Application to Claim/Surrender are supported by ALIP. It gave the clients greatest customization options when it    comes to client specific features. Insurance plans like Universal Life, Annuity products are supported by ALIP. Configurations are built in such a way that code automatically recognizes the changes and reflects on the policies.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in most of the SDLC phases with sprint planning sessions & actively participated in Agile Scrum.  • Involved in system design and development using Collections and multithreading for the action classes.  • Developed custom controllers for handling the requests using the Spring MVC controllers.  • Involved in design and development of server side layer using Spring IOC, Spring ORM.  • Configured association mappings like one-one and one-many in Hibernate.  • Used Hibernate to persist the data efficiently into database and also integrated it with the Spring ORM framework.  • Used Eclipse as IDE tool to develop the application and JIRA for issue tracking.  • Supported the applications through debugging, fixing and maintenance releases.  • Involved in them Maintenance and Code changes from existing code, Support of the System.  • Involved in fetching the services from third parties and integration.  • Involved in Enhancements of new features.  Environment: Java, Spring Framework, Hibernate, JSP, JDBC, JIRA, Oracle, Spring Integration Spring MVC. Java Team Lead Lodha - Mumbai, Maharashtra November 2013 to January 2015 Description: Email2Case automatically searches Salesforce account information alert you to matching records based on the email you are viewing. Email2Case Gmail Integration for Salesforce makes it easy to access existing customer information. and populate the user information based on the email ID. Users can directly create case on account from directly His inbox and attach email as attachments to Cases section. Search Option provide on widget to fetch the results from salesforce on different parameters (CRN, NAME, MOBILE, EMAIL ID).It gives you one click access to add the email to Salesforce or view the Salesforce record inside Gmail. Gets the Account information from the salesforce directly, add emails to Salesforce from Gmail, View Existing cases information Search for Accounts based on (CRN, mobile, Name, Email Id).It can give you provision of adding cases to the existing account. View the existing cases of that account, and update the existing cases. Written schedulers on google script which runs on user's inbox to bifurcate the emails to different folders according the email id [Registered / Non - Registered]  Bifurcates the actioned mails to different folder in user mailbox automatically Scheduler connects to the database and inserts relationship manager record with the respective folders count daily.  This information will be shown in the separate dashboard application.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the analysis, design, and development and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Used Agile (SCRUM) methodologies for Software Development.  • Used Rational Rose for developing Use case diagrams, Class diagrams and Object diagrams in the design phase.  • Implemented the application using Struts Framework which is based on Model View Controller (MVC) design pattern.  • Applied MVC design pattern using Java Beans, Swing and conducted simultaneous queries and retrievals using Java multithreading techniques.  • Used Hibernate in data persistence layer to access and update information in the database.  • Generated the Hibernate mapping files and developed the underlying domain objects.  • Written Contextual gadget creation in XML.  • Worked with Singleton, MVC and DAO design patterns.  • Used SVN for version control and used HP Quality Centre to track defects and change requests  • Written Google script schedulers.    Environment: JDK 1.6, Spring MVC, JSP, Redis cache, Hibernate, Spring Rest, Apache Tomcat, SVN, Log4J, JUnit, ANT, Oracle 10g, Eclipse, Linux, Google Script. Senior Java Developer Sun power - IN January 2013 to September 2013 Description: The Sun power Integration application is designed to create accurate Solar Roofs/Panels by taking input measurements from the values pulled from salesforce (Accounts, Contacts, and Opportunities) This application is used as Integration application between Salesforce and SQL Server with Web Services. Accounts, Contacts, Opportunities can be created from salesforce and pushed to SQL Server using Web Services. The Roof Generation, Bill of Material (BOM) will be generated through the Java and again pushed back to Salesforce.    Responsibilities:  • Developing Business logic using Java  • Developing & deploying web application for integration  • Implemented the Controllers using Spring MVC.  • Responsible for implementing Spring Security.  • Design and developed web application using JSF, Spring Web Flow, AJAX technology and front end UI using JSF, Apache MyFaces and Prime Faces UI components.  • Implementing the persistence layer using HQL and Named Queries. Responsible for creating  • the tables as per the requirement.  • Developed ANT build scripts to automate building and deploying the application.  • Introduced and implemented Agile methodologies such as Scrum and Test Driven  • Development (TDD)  Environment: Java 1.5, Spring MVC, Spring Restful WS, Hibernate, JSF, Prime Faces, Eclipse 3.5, XSLT, XML, XSD, X-Path, Log 4j, SVN and Oracle 10g. Sr. Java Developer CISCO - IN March 2010 to December 2012 Description: Identity Service Engine (ISE) is the first release of the next-generation Network Access Control (NAC/ACS) product. It will deliver base network access policy services across wired, wireless and VPN environments as well as additional services like Device Administration, Profiling, Guest, Posture, Trust sec and Advanced Monitoring and Troubleshooting. To achieve the goal, NSF is required to help admin users configure the basic Positron building blocks that will be also shared across different services that use the Positron Network Services Framework. Even if a customer purchases a ISE server without additional services, this NSF will still be the base UI to provide essential configuration options for users to adjust the system.    Responsibilities:  • Coding in the Action classes to the respective user stories.  • Extensively used extreme Programming concept which is part of Agile methodologies to plan work for every iteration and used continuous integration tool to make the build passes before deploying the code to other environments.  • Writing the API test cases for the implemented API.  • As part of development was involved in Analysis, design & Implementation of several features in multiple iterations.  • Involved in implementing the DAO pattern for database connectivity and used the JDBC API extensively.  • Developed the WSDL to define the web service.  • Used CVS version control to maintain the source code.  • Used Hibernate for Object Relation Mapping and used Spring AOP for Transaction Management.  • Fixed Bugs as part of maintenance & Major releases.  Environment: Java, JDBC API, JSP, Spring AOP, Struts 2.0, Hibernate, Apache Tomcat, Selenium, Test NG, Apache AXIS, Oracle, SQL, ANT, UNIX. JAVA Consultant Clarity - IN August 2008 to January 2009 Description: Project Portfolio Management (PPM) remains a high priority for CIOs and IT management, as IT Governance strategies drive the effective and efficient delivery of multiple projects for business growth that are tightly linked to corporate goals. Yet a Gartner Research study reported that nearly 50 percent of all IT-enabled business initiatives fail to achieve their originally stated objectives. The value of lessons learned and the application of PPM best practices in such efforts cannot be overstated. We did the customization of the adapter as per the client requirement.    Responsibilities:  • Analysis of the Client Requirement  • Adapter Coding changes as per requirement  • Deployment into the Client Server  • Testing after Adapters customization  • Customization of CLARITY Interface using NSQL, SQL, XOG, Gel Scripting & Actuate /Business Objects Reports including WEBi reports  • PPM Server Administrator & Monitoring.  Environment: Java, Jakarta Struts, Hibernate, JSP, Axis Web Services, DAO, Eclipse, Tomcat Web-Server, MySQL Sr. Java Developer Net Enforcers - IN January 2007 to July 2008 Description: Net Enforcers is a web based application to have a control over infringement of products over the net. This is an application that holds different clients and through each client, different brands and intern products, dealers and so on. These clients and their respective information is searched through different sites, like yahoo, eBay, Froogle etc., and checked for their authorization and different validations are posted respectively. This application holds modules like Letter Management System (LMS), Yahoo, User management, Menu Management which cater to the needs of different requirements. This project has separate independent modules like Products & Purchases Management System (PPMS), Forums Blogs and News (FBN), eBay, which are service provider and are irrespective of the infringement.    Responsibilities:  • Analysis of the functional specification  • Created custom directives for reusable components used across the application.  • Written a algorithm to find out the unauthorized sales in eBay.  • Complete ownership of admin module.  • User's creation, updation, deletion and assigning roles to the existing users.  • Menu management and assigning the menus as per the roles.  • Coding in action classes as per the business logic.  • Created schedulers on the basis of admin user configuration to run the algorithm to finding unauthorized sales in eBay portal.  • Analysis of eBay  • Coding in transaction beans(model) to retrieve data from the database based on the requests  • Writing validations using validation.xml, validation-rules.xml and Java Script.  • Deployment of application on Tomcat Web Server.  • Functional testing.  • Used JUnit to implement test cases for Unit testing of modules    • Implemented the Log4j logging framework and monitored the logs for troubleshooting the errors  • Adopted the hibernate framework to the project.  • Created mapping files and configuration file in Hibernate  • Deployment of the application into different environments  • Fixed user reported bugs from the issue tracker and redeploying the application.  • provided the support to the client.  • Exporting the violations report into different formats (CSV, PDF, and XLS).  Environment: Jakarta Struts, JSP, Java, JavaScript, Axis Web Services, Sabre, DAO, Hibernate, Eclipse, Tomcat Web-Server, and MySQL. Log4j, open CMS, JForum, Jasper Reports, iReport Sr. Java Developer MCM Tours - IN July 2006 to December 2006 Description: This is a web based application for targeting Tour operators market. This provides the functionality for making online reservations and admin interface for configuring the settings. This application will be getting information from third party providers like Sabre. This application will be built on top of the base functionality provided by various tools in the current system of our client with extensibility to support various services like Air, hotel, car, tickets etc., This project includes the following modules:  • Admin Module  • Public User Module  • Public Admin Module    The Admin module lets the Tour Operator create and configure the Site Layout, create users, create agency, service types, specify markups, configure airline, generate Reports etc. The Public Admin is similar to the public site with extended features which Tour Operator can control the Reservations and make the Reservations for the user. The Public Site is for the end user (traveler) to access for booking tickets and making reservations.    Responsibilities:  • Analysis of the functional specification.  • Coding in beans to retrieve information from the database based on the requests  • Responsible for developing Application Front end using JSPs.  • Responsible for writing Servlets classes.  • Responsible for Client side validations.  • Deployment of application on Tomcat Web Server.  • Created triggers and stored procedures using PL/SQL.  • Integrated the JForum in public module.  • Application performance tuning by adopting the newer sort techniques.  • Involved in the entire life-cycle of the project, which includes Coding and Implementation.  • At the Database end, writing the stored procedures for Public User Module.  • Developed business logic using JavaBeans which will process the requests processed by the user or admin.  • Development of reports in three formats (CSV, XLS, PDF) using Jasper & iReport for Admin.  • Functional testing.  • Resolving the Production Issues.  Environment: Java, Servlets, JSP, JavaScript, Axis Web Services, DAO, Hibernate, Eclipse, Tomcat Web-Server, SQL Server, VSS, Jasper Reports , iReports, JForum, Open CMS, Sabre, AXIS, Java Developer Hema Metrics - Salt Lake City, UT March 2006 to June 2006 It is a cutting-edge medical device company, for health care software products with strong patient focus for upcoming products in the hem dialysis field and beyond.  The Application's salient features are:  • Clients/Customers of the hospital are stored in a separate list.  • Various Diseases are stored as separate Units.  • Clinical Benefits Economical Benefits for Doctors, Nurses & patients.  • Online Library, Technical Services provided for hem dialysis.  • Optical measurement of absolute blood parameters.    Responsibilities:  • Development of UI using JSP  • Coding in beans to retrieve information from the database based on the requests.  • Interacting with the client about end to end requirements.  • Writing client side validations using Java Script.  • Functional testing of the newly implemented features.  • Providing the support to the key stakeholders for change requests.  • Involved in Coding Servlets and developing business logic using Java Beans.  • Involved in the Development of User Interaction Screens (GUI) using JSP.  • Deployment of application on Tomcat Web Server.  • Apache Ant was used for the entire build process.  • Developed, Form Beans, Helpers and Data Access Objects.  Environment: Java, Servlets, JSP, JavaScript, Tomcat Web-Server, SQL Server, VSS. Java Developer Layasudha, Etisbew - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2006 to March 2006 Description: Project mainly focuses on Internet music store, sells a variety of musical products: sheet music, musical instruments, books on musical topics, gift items, and music software. Support for these products involves taking orders over the phone, checking order status, resolving billing questions, and providing technical support for software. We will develop a web based system for managing the product support center. Users of the system can report and track product defects, log comments about then and route them to the appropriate parties.  When a customer calls to report a software problem, the first available call center agent answers the phone. This call center agent may route the call to sales or customer service, if the problem is not software related. Otherwise the agent verifies the customer is entitled to support, meaning the customer is a valid purchaser of the specified product. The agent creates a problem report and tells the customer to expect a call from product support.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Coding Servlets and developing business logic using Java Beans.  • Involved in the Development of User Interaction Screens (GUI) using JSP.  • Functional testing.  Environment: Java, Servlets, JSP, JavaScript, Apache Tomcat Education Master of Science in Information Systems Kakatiya University October 2004 Bachelor of Computer Applications in Computer Applications Kakatiya University April 2002 Skills ECLIPSE, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING