Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - EQUIFAX ? 2 years of experience in programming for Dynamic Web Application throughout full  Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including requirement gathering, designing,  programming, testing and implementation of major systems.  ? Worked in development environment Waterfall, Agile and their combination.  ? Experienced in UML and implementation expertise of Use-case diagram, Class Diagram,  Sequence diagrams, etc.  ? Experience in Objected Oriented Design patterns and J2EE Design patterns like MVC, Front  Controller, Application Controller, DTO, DAO and Singleton patterns.  ? Solid knowledge of usage of query language such as SQL, HQL.  ? Configured spring beans following the Spring Framework's Dependency Injection (DI) and  Inversion of Control (IOC) principles, both XML and annotation based.  ? Solid knowledge of decoupling application concerns using Aspects and Spring AOP.  ? Well versed in developing Web APIs using REST, RESTful.  ? Experience in creating RESTful web services using JSON and Spring Web MVC  framework.  ? Experienced in writing integration test cases for the REST endpoints.  ? Solid knowledge in microservice architecture and development using Spring Boot.  ? Greater understanding of Java Persistence API (JPA) with the implementation in Hibernate  as Object Relational Mapping tool.  ? Experienced in database engines like MySQL, Oracle, MS SQL Server.  ? NoSQL usage experience such as MongoDB, etc.  ? Experienced in front end using JavaScript, AngularJS, jQuery, HTML and CSS.  ? Solid experience working with Git, GitHub, BitBucket version control systems and Jenkins  for continuous integration and deployment.  ? Extensive experience in deploying, configuring Application Servers and Servlet Container  like Tomcat etc.  ? Experience in Production support and Debugging of live applications.  ? Implemented logging using Logback, SLF4J, log4j, etc.  ? JVM performance monitoring and JVM tuning.  ? Experience in using various IDE tools like Eclipse, Net Beans, and IntelliJ IDEA.  ? Defined coding and development standards and implemented design and code review  procedures throughout the project life cycle.  ? Solid experience in Cucumber Automation.  ? Solid analytical, communication, time-management, organizational, and presentation skills.  ? Exceptional ability to quickly master new concepts.  ? Capable of working in-group as well as independently.  ? Conducted design and review sessions with clients, consulting staff, and management. Work Experience Java Developer EQUIFAX June 2018 to Present Description: Equifax Inc. is a consumer credit reporting agency. Equifax collects and aggregates information on over 800 million individual consumers worldwide. The java  application I worked on was Credit-Karma Support Application. Indirect_enrollment is a Micro  service which provides a third party consumer's to enrol in Equifax and subscribe to additional  feature's.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed microservice components.  ? Used Spring Boot which is faster in building microservices.  ? Developed RESTful Web Services to implement business logic to the application using  Spring Web MVC.  ? JUnit tests were written to test each module and also used Mockito and Spring Test to write  unit test cases for the REST endpoints.  ? Worked on consuming other microservice application.  ? Secured RESTful APIs using Spring Security, OAuth2, and JWT.  ? Used Postman to test the developed RESTful APIs.  ? Developed component with other Spring framework including Spring core /IOC, Spring Web  MVC, Spring Data JPA, Spring Security, Spring ORM, Spring AOP modules.  ? Used Spring AOP for the crosscutting concerns.  ? Used UML to draw class diagram and sequence diagram.  ? Designed, created database tables in MySQL using MySQL workbench and developed the corresponding entity classes.  ? Implemented DAO for data access using Spring ORM with Hibernate.  ? Used Hibernate as an ORM tool to interact with the database while used Spring Data JPA to abstract away some of the lower level implementation.  ? Used Maven as a build tool.  ? Performed logging of all the debug, error and warning at the code level using log4j.  ? Used Maven for project management.  ? Participated in code reviews.  ? Used Jira and Confluence for issue and workflow management.  ? Used GitHub as source control.  ? Used Cucumber for automation purposes  ? Migrated some projects from SVN to Git.  ? Resolved Fortify Issues to resolve any security issues before going to production  ? Worked agile methodology to analyse, define, and document the application which will support functional and business requirements.  ? Actively participated in the daily scrum meetings to produce quality deliverables within time  information and helped clearing ambiguity in requirements document.    Environment: Java, UML, Microservices, Spring framework, Spring Web MVC, Spring Boot, Eclipse, JSON, REST, MySQL, Tomcat, JSP, Servlets, Hibernate, XML, HTML, CSS, JUnit,  Mockito, Spring Test, Jira, Confluence, GitHub, SourceTree, Log4j, Agile, Scrum. Java Developer UC Davis - Davis, CA December 2017 to June 2018 Description: I got an opportunity to work in UC Davis as java developer for there project to provide a back end by creating back end micro services to outside people about current activities and initiatives taken in the previous years and in current year.    Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for the development of Core Java in this application.  ? Implemented the application using Spring MVC framework which is based on Model  View Controller architecture.  ? Created technical design Documents for Hibernate.  ? Made use of REST architecture style for building the web  services. Developed web services using Spring-Boot.  ? Developed hibernate mapping files, implemented value objects to retrieve the data using  Hibernate.  ? Developed HQL Queries, SQL and Criteria Queries for database Query Operations  including Stored Procedure call.  ? Used Eclipse IDE for entire application development and version controlling.  ? Made use of tomcat web server for the deployment of the application.  ? Implemented a message producer sending XML messages to a JMS queue.  ? Used Maven as a build tool for the development of the application.  ? Preparation of Junit test cases and testing.    Environment: Java/J2EE, JDK, Spring, Hibernate, Maven, Tomcat, RESTful web services  JAX-RS, Oracle, PL/SQL Developer, Eclipse IDE, Git, Junit, LOG4j, Jira Java Developer Intern enCypher Technologies - Bengaluru, Karnataka January 2017 to June 2017 Description: enCypher Technologies is an Internet of things ecosystem-based product company  primarily focused on Smart city solutions like smart home, smart street light, smart office, smart  dustbin, smart parking system etc. The java application I worked on was developing the already  existing database code in various software modules in their enterprise application, where I used  Hibernate framework in combination with spring framework to reduce a lot of boiler plate code and makes use of collections to reduce the complexity.    Responsibilities:  ? Used JSP, HTML, CSS, jQuery and JavaScript for writing UI of the application.  ? Used JSF frame work on the server side for the MVC architecture.  ? Developed web services and data synchronization services.  ? Used Junit for testing the Web services by sending an REST request.  ? Involved in putting the entries to external XML files which are read by doc-builder.  ? JUnit tests were written to test each module in the application.  ? Developed Web Services to retrieve data from database.  ? Implemented DAO layers using Hibernate API and core interfaces.  ? Performed building and deployment of WAR, JAR files on test, stage, and production systems.  ? Used XSL, JavaScript to display the contents of XML pages in the HTML  pages. Used Git as version control.    Environment: JDK, Core Java, Spring MVC, Hibernate, MySQL, JAX-WS web services, REST, Eclipse, Tomcat, Junit, JMS, Maven Education Bachelor of Science University of California - Davis, CA Skills J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, jquery, Jsp, Jvm, Servlets, Api, C++, Git, Html, Javascript, Svn, Xml, Css, Dhtml, Security, Tomcat, Jdbc, Core Java, MVC, Rest, AWS, MYSQL Links https://github.com/krishnasuhas Additional Information Technical Skill  Programming Languages: Java, C++, SQL  J2EE Technologies: Core Java, JDBC, Servlets, JSP  Web Technologies: Spring, Spring Web MVC, Spring AOP, Spring Data  JPA, Spring Security, Java Beans, JavaScript, AngularJS,  HTML, DHTML, CSS, jQuery, JavaScript, Web  Services, REST.  Microservice: Microservice, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, RESTful API.  XML Technologies: XML, XML Schema, XSD.  Application Servers: Tomcat  Frame Works: Hibernate, Spring Core, Spring MVC, Spring Cloud, Log4j  Cloud computing: AWS  RMDBS: MySQL, Oracle, MS SQL Server  NoSQL: MongoDB  Version Control Systems: Git, SVN  JVM Profiling and optimization: JVisual VM, JConsole