Technical Lead and Sr. Java Developer Technical Lead and Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Technical Lead and Sr. Java Developer - AT&T Work Experience Technical Lead and Sr. Java Developer AT&T May 2013 to Present Team Size - 20 Project: OPUS & OM Module: Development and Delivery  Languages: Java, J2EE, JSP/Servlets, JSTL, React JS, Struts, Spring, Springboot, REST, WSDL, XSD, Unix Shell Scripting, Oracle SQL-PL/SQL, Log4j, XML, JavaScript, Ant Scripting, JNDI, J Query UI, EJB and Java Web Services, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON, JMS, JavaBeans, Micro services  Database: Oracle  Tools: Eclipse, Spring Tool Suits, Microsoft Visual Studio Code, Editplus, WinSCP, SQL Developer, Weblogic, JIRA, SOAP UI, Tortoise SVN, Fiddler, postman  O/S: UNIX, Windows    Project Description  The One Point Universal System (OPUS) is an AT&T system that enables employees to effectively activate phones, assist customers with their mobile phone accounts, and perform Point-of-Sale (POS) activities which includes purchase phone with AT&T Next, add a line, Upgrade, Return, Trade-In. The application is used in AT&T retail stores, Authorized Retailers, National Retailers and Call Center application. OPUS Mobile is an exciting technology that allows to be more mobile on the retail floor.    Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in the Sales and Inventory development lead position and effectively involved in development, design and solution, resolve time-critical production issues in POS live payment solutions involving multiple tenders for Service Payments and Transactions including AT&T NEXT program, Accessory Installment, Trade-In, EMV Card, Tokenize with Cyber Source and FirstData for payment solution, Digital Life VAN Sale Solutions.  • Communicate with cross-functional stakeholders, external teams (includes Payment Solution, Trade-In), resource allocation, delivery plan, analysis for production performance, lead the development effort, resolve production complex and time-critical issues, risk analysis and defect management.  • Involved in developing SOA-based telecom Software Solutions using Struts, Spring and EJB framework and created microServices using Springboot on AT&T IDP platform.  • Analyzing business requirements, HLD & AD document and compose them into a release based technical use cases using UML and understanding documents.  • Provide development task timeline and ETA of any upcoming development project/ proof of concepts to the client through thorough requirement analysis and work distribution between team members by coordinating onsite and offshore resources.  • Requirement analysis and creation of detailed design of the new business functionalities to be installed.  • Implemented optimization for build processes which reduced manual efforts which in turn contributed towards Optimization gain.  • Responsible for Coding using Core Java, EJB, RMI, JDBC, AJAX, JSON, JNDI, JMS, JavaBeans, JSP, JSTL, Servlets, JQuery, HTML, CSS, DHTML, JAX-WS and JAX-RS.  • Responsible for overseeing the Quality procedures related to the project.  • Coding for the various modules assigned as per the design document.  • Developed application using Java WebServices for interacting Service layers and external system for data transfer by analyzing the WSDL and XSD document.  • Created RESTful APIs for the client and also consumed for the third party application.  • Used UI using React JS and communicated with RESTful services for the data.  • Used jQuery UI for front page designing.  • Responsible for preparing the Unit Test Plan, Code Review document, Development Package document, Deployment Guide document.  • Took a major role in sharing the knowledge across the team and helped streamlining the processes, setting up protocols for various activities within the project.  • Worked on fortify changes for SPI/ PCA information and Cross Site Scripting issues.  • Create development package for IT/UP process using code review record and SONAR analysis document.  • Used Fiddler to debug HTTP / HTTPS request network troubleshooting, analysis, software, communications protocol development.  • Extensive use of Firebug and Developers tool for live debugging, editing, and monitoring of CSS, HTML, DOM and JavaScript during web development.  • Created and validated XSD and WSDL for java webservices project using XML-Spy, Oxygen XML Editor and Liquid XML Editor.  • Perform Regression testing on the deliverables.  • Investigated production issues, fix and monitored production logs.    2. Project Name: Common Product Catalog Senior Java Developer AT&T January 2011 to April 2013 Team Size - 10 Project: CPC Module: Development  Languages: Java, J2EE, JSP/Servlets, Struts, Hibernate, WSDL, XSD, Unix Shell Scripting, Oracle SQL-PL/SQL, Log4j, XML, Groovy Scripting, Ant Scripting, JNDI, jQuery UI  Database: Oracle  Tools: Eclipse, Weblogic 10.3, Toad, SOAP UI, XML-Spy, Apache Ant, Connect Direct  O/S: Windows 7, UNIX    Project Description - Common Product Catalog (CPC) provides services to deliver rich product information to clients to facilitate their application flows. It has a Java based web application which includes various catalogs and authoring tools for authoring handsets, features, rate plans, promotions and accessories along with all the rules appropriate for the products including the New Activation and Upgrade offers.    Responsibilities:  • Created data structure and developed for the Catalog XML generation with Java which to be delivered to the external clients using batch jobs.  • Designed, Developed CPC-QQ architecture for Extract/Transform/Load (ETL) with extensive use of UNIX Shell scripting to automate the AT&T Quick Quote application data feed.  • Coded the WebServices for Digital Life, towers, stores and device support centers catering to MTi application. Performed unit testing and code review for the same.  • Created batch for MTi batch processing for Digital Life eligibility with microcell count with the help of MapXtreme.  • Analyzed the Java core dumps.  • Coding for the various modules assigned as per the design document.  • Developed extensive client side validations scripts using Java Script.  • Used jQuery UI for front page designing.  • Used JAXB/DOM to process XML messages.  • Used Apache Ant 1.7.0 for build process as a part of software configuration management.  • Preparation of the Unit Test Plan, Code Review document, Development Package document, Deployment Guide document.  • Installation of the applications on development and QA servers.  • Created automated scripts for building on different QA/ Dev Servers.  • Preparing and reviewing Deliverables and Deployment of the applications.  • Maintenance of the Application and Created Regression testing tool and Stub Responder for defect fixing in efficient way.    3. Project Name: Local Ordering System Developer/ Onsite Co-ordinator AT&T October 2010 to January 2011 Project: LOS-NLP, ICV & eCPNI - CIM BIS - CCHL Applications Module: Development  Languages: Core Java, Struts, Hibernate, UNIX Shell Scripting, Oracle SQL/PL-SQL.  Database: Oracle, Sybase  Tools: RAD 7.5, WebSphere App Server, Toad  O/S: Windows, UNIX    Responsibilites  • Provided production support, application development support and consultation to plan testing and fix defect and support the external test team during integration test, System test, end-to-end test and user acceptance testing.  • Prepared the project plan including the resource management, End to End coordination of the requirements starting from requirement gathering to development and then to Integration Testing.  • Managing releases and delivery with onsite and offshore team planning, co-ordination and communication.  • Managed documentation for all knowledge transition and co-ordination between Onshore and Offshore being the Onsite coordinator and client's point of contact.  • Solely responsible for the maintenance of server health for development, test and production servers at onsite.  • Main Interface between offshore delivery team and customer (AT&T).  • Took leading role in sharing the knowledge across the team and helped streamlining the processes, setting up protocols for various activities within the project.    4. Project Name: eCPNI & CCHL Lead Developer AT&T January 2010 to September 2010 Team Size -6 Project: eCPNI & CCHL Module: Development  Languages: Core Java, Struts, Hibernate, UNIX Shell Scripting, Oracle SQL/PL-SQL  Database: Oracle  Tools: RAD 7.5, WebSphere App Server, Toad  O/S: Windows 7, UNIX    Project Description  eCPNI (Enterprise Customer Proprietary Network Information) is an AT&T system which stores marketing information related to Southwest, Pacific Bell, and Nevada Bell customers' account numbers. The marketing information consists of a single-letter code known as the "CPNI Indicator".  CCHL (Customer Contact History Log) is the system where we can view that customer's contact history across: channels, affiliates, and functional areas and that need by providing a centralized repository, which can be used to gather the records of all customer touch-point interactions across these various areas of AT&T.    Responsibilities  • Attended Knowledge Transition activities with direct client and Took major role for stabilizing the project for the releases.  • Took leading role in sharing the knowledge across the team and helped streamlining the processes, setting up protocols for various activities within the project.  • Requirement analysis and creation of detailed design of the new business functionalities to be installed.  • Perform the coding without any slippage of schedule and maintaining proper coding standard, proper formatting and documentation.  • Creation of several test cases and performing Unit Testing of the installed business functionalities to minimize the defect.  • Build and deployment of the code into DEV/TEST/PRODUCTION servers.  • Creation of DD, UTP docs for these, DP (Deployment Plan) docs maintaining Express One Standard and participation on the audit with QMG team.    5. Project Name: National Local Platform Production Support & Enhancement AT&T April 2008 to December 2009 Team Size - 8 Project: LOS-NLP Module: Production Support & Enhancement  Languages: Core Java, Struts, Hibernate, UNIX Shell Scripting, Oracle SQL/PL-SQL  Database: Oracle, Sybase  Tools: RAD 7.5, WebSphere App Server, Toad  O/S: Windows 7, UNIX    Project Description  Local Ordering System (LOS) is a classic AT&T Consumer platform, providing Ordering and Provisioning, integrated Fallout Management and Reporting. LOS supports VoIP and UNE-P (Landline) services and interfaces with multiple billing systems. The system generates the orders and it is interacting with various subsystems and other ILECs to provide the service.  Responsibilities  • Attended Transition activities and Took major role for stabilizing the project and was leading the fallout team.  • As a lead, was responsible for direct co-ordination with client as well as Onsite co-ordinator, made optimization decision, worked with QMG group for CSAT analysis and successfully implemented that to achieve the CSAT rating.  • Prepared the project plan including the resource management and performance evaluation.  • Implemented optimization for some processes which reduced manual efforts for the entire project and there was Optimization gain in terms of saving dollars.  • Took a major role in sharing the knowledge across the team and helped streamlining the processes, setting up protocols for various activities within the project.  • System Requirement Document and creation of detailed design of the new business functionalities to be installed for the new web services.  • Designed and developed the scripts to automate the Batch production support system with UNIX scripting for the entire manual process and then implemented front end view for better monitoring the jobs running in the backend and report processing.  • For the entire team designed a tool using Servlet, JSP, JavaBeans, Struts on Weblogic Server and used Sybase as database which reduced a lot of dependencies on UNIX machine and the investigation is easy now by improving the process.  • Created a Simulator for testing of the entire RnM application which handles Synchronous as well as asynchronous requests.    6. Project Name: DBOR Developer AT&T October 2007 to March 2008 Team Size - 5 Project: BD-Map Application Module: Development  Languages: Java, JWS, XSD, WSDL, SQL  Database: Oracle  Tools: RAD, WebSphere App Server, Toad  O/S: Windows, UNIX    Responsibilities  • Requirement analysis and creation of detailed design of the new business functionalities to be installed.  • Perform the coding without any slippage of schedule and maintaining proper coding standard, proper formatting and documentation.  • Creation of several test cases and performing Unit Testing of the installed business functionalities to minimize the defect.  • Build and deployment of the code into DEV/TEST/QA servers.  • Creation of DD, UTP, ITP and PR review docs for these, DP (Deployment Plan) docs maintaining Express One Standard and participation on the audit with QMG team. Skills Eclipse, Ejb, Java, Javabeans, Jax, Jaxb, Jax-ws, Jms, Jndi, jquery, Jsp, Jstl, Rmi, Servlets, Struts, Jdbc, Oracle, Sql, Sybase, Apache Additional Information Technical Skills    Operating Systems Windows NT/2000/XP/Windows 7, UNIX  Language  C, C++, Groovy Scripting, Apache Ant Scripting, Core JAVA, EJB, RMI, JDBC, AJAX, JSON, JNDI, JMS, JavaBeans, JSP, JSTL, Servlets, JQuery, HTML, CSS, DHTML, JAX-WS , JAX-RS , SQL, UNIX-Shell Scripting, JavaScript, Struts, EJB, WebServices, XML, XSD, JAXB, WSDL, AWK scripting, React JS    Databases Oracle, MS-Access, Sybase  Tools & Utilities  TOAD, RAD 7.5, WebLogic 10.3, EditPlus, MyEclipse, XML-Spy, Eclipse, SOAP UI, SQL Developer, CVS, SVN, ClearCase, Quality Center, JIRA, ClearQuest, Fiddler, Firebug, Developers Tool, Oxygen XML Editor, GIT, Visual Studio Code    Web/Application Server Websphere, Weblogic, Tomcat  Case Tools JIRA, AgileCraft, TDP  Domain Knowledge Retail, Telecom