Software Quality Engineer Software Quality Engineer Software Quality Engineer Amherst, MA Seeking position in TECHNICAL SUPPORT    Skills/Computer languages    PEGASYSTEMS Platform Version 7, customer support, Java (including Swing), C Sharp, Javascript, DOM, XML/HTML, C/C++, UNIX/BASH/DOS shells, SQL, Fiddler, Postman, Chrome/Internet Explorer debugging, Apache Tomcat server web application development, deployment, and debugging. Work Experience Software Quality Engineer Llumin - West Springfield, MA January 2019 to June 2019 • Coded tests in C sharp to verify proper function of purchase order UI pages, thus saving time and money by catching issues before the customers do.  • Coded C sharp parsing code within test suite to handle formats of URL link that appear on UI pages, which reduced percentage of false negatives during automated test operation.  • Manually tested scrum user stories, verifying complete and proper behavior before customers see the development.  • Manually tested bug fixes, guaranteeing that customers would be satisfied with the result.  • Developed and executed release candidate test plan, thus giving confidence that our release candidate is ready for shipment, to guarantee customer happiness. Senior Solutions Engineer Pegasystems - Cambridge, MA January 2013 to March 2018 • Provided customer-facing Level II Technical Customer Support, averaging 12 solutions per month, supporting multiple cases simultaneously both with ticket system and with Kanban board software  • Developed Java code in the PegaSaveDetect tool to detect unintended data record over-writes and dangling work assignment objects. The Pegasystems platform is a CRM (Customer relationship management) system. Designed efficient self-test startup layer, which dramatically reduces debug time for the tool itself.  • Supported wide variety of customer platforms, including Pega Cloud, AWS Platform customers, and private cloud and non-cloud platforms.  • Managed test environments using Linux / Docker containers.  • Developed Java code for reading records from the database, repairing them, and maintaining the old and new records (so customer could confirm integrity of the repaired data).  • Analyzed HTML error failures which were challenging due to deep nesting of included files.  • Enhanced and troubleshot Javascript code, including AJAX, for UI field validation.  • Analyzed SQL query issues, including chop-offs, where relevant data was chopped even before filtering  • Solved connectivity issues for multiple service types, including file services and REST services, which were often tested with JSON structures  • Unraveled Java error stacks to pinpoint reason for failures such as null-pointer and index out-of-bound errors, using github to consult the source code, before which we used cvs and svn version control systems. Senior Software Developer Pegasystems - Cambridge, MA June 2005 to December 2012 • Provided accurate clear architectural design documents for all work  • Daily collaboration with management to guarantee project is on-track  • Drove story-sizing within Agile (SCRUM) team, using comparative placement  • Implemented DCO (Direct Capture of Objectives) modules in Java  • Developed and maintained section rules for rule-form UI, including Javascript event coding, with ajax interaction with the Tomcat server.  • Met maintenance milestones with timely debugging, analysis, Java code modification, and code-merging. Java Developer Innovation Merchants - Littleton, MA August 2004 to 2005 Developed Java GUI using swing classes, sockets, xerces, and XML on the j2ee and j2sdk platform. Click here for Java class details used on this project Software Engineer Cyphermint - Marlboro, MA March 2004 to July 2004 • Developed, debugged, and maintained screen-scraping layer for AAA kiosk, using Javascript  • Provided post production root cause isolation of customer problems  • Enforced QA, finding and fixing the bugs before shipping  • Installed and evaluated Apache Tomcat server for use with java server pages ( JSP's )  Skills: MSXML, XML, Javascript, HTML, TestTrack, Accurev, screen scraping, repurposing, web development, Apache server, Tomcat server, JSP Web Developer Dr. Barry Taylor - Weston, MA September 2003 to February 2004 Designed and launched interruptible and recoverable online patient intake form, with ongoing debugging and technical support, including CSS to enforce consistent presentation.  Skills: PERL, HTML, DOM, CSS engineer contractor Independent Software 2000 to 2004 including the following: Software Engineer FairyTale Fashion - Watertown, MA March 2003 to September 2003 Implemented MIVA e-commerce interface for clothing design company, and provided on-going technical support for the interface. Used CSS for proper store-front look.  Skills: HTML, Javascript, CSS, MIVA. Technical Support Web Developer Postmark Press - Watertown, MA March 2002 to March 2003 • Created modification tool for customers to change the font in context  • Created retailer list interface so customers can modify the list themselves  Skills: Javascript, DOM, PHP, DHTML, HTML, CSS Java Developer Sitescape - Maynard, MA May 2001 to February 2002 * Developed secure web application allowing local folders to be efficiently dragged directly onto any remote computer.  * Click here for details of the Java classes and interfaces explicitly used in this project.  Skills: Java J2EE, Swing, drag-drop, applet, JTree, SSL, multi-part mime, internationalization Software QA Engineer / Java developer AP Engines - Maynard, MA October 2000 to April 2001 • Analyzed the Java code, and created comprehensive XML diagnostic test driver  • Designed and developed easily-extendable interface between management storage layers  • Created customer work-order tracking for cable and telephony provisioning workflow system by expanding the RMI and Corba connection  Skills: Java, XML, technical support, QA, RMI, Corba, Clearcase Education BSEE Syracuse University