Sr. iOS Developer Sr. iOS <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. iOS Developer - DIRECTV Los Angeles, CA • Over 14+ years of experience in designing, testing, implementing and developing User Interface applications, integrating with various Databases and Client-Server applications in Android DevelopmentiPhone/iPad application development using objective-C, swift, SQL, Cocoa Touch, Cocoa Bindings, Core animation custom controls.  • Excellent knowledge in Cocoa/Cocoa Touch, Objective-C, Swift coding ability with Xcode, XC Test for iOS (iPhone/iPad).  • Created and customized Screens using customized views, table views, tab bars and navigation bars which are some basic functionality in a multi-view application.  • Experienced in working with data parsing forms such as XML and JSON to dynamically display data on iPhone/iPad.  • Experience with in depth concepts of Automatic Reference Counting (ARC), Grand Central Dispatch (GCD) of Objective C.  • Extensive experience in developing, designing and implementing enterprise and commercial iOS native applications.  • Proficient in source control with GitHub.  • Proficient in programming languages such as HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Experience in writing Units Tests for application to test the code.  • Good Knowledge in all Objective C, Cocoa, iPhone SDK, REST, SQLite 3, PLIST, JSON, XML, IOS 7,8,9,10Xcode5,6,7,8,9.  • Integration such as Facebook, Twitter, and Google+ with OAuth token handling.  • Knowledge of Object Oriented Concepts and good development experience in using those concepts in building re-usable code.  • Integrated Push Notifications, Local Notifications and Bluetooth network connectivity  • Worked with GDB, LLDB and Xcode for debugging. Working with Subversion to checkout and update the codebase changes.  • Integrations such as Facebook, Twitter, and Google+ with OAuth token handling; make API requests, Core Bluetooth API'S, RESTful API's and JSON API's.  • Knowledge of all tasks from UI design, Pixel Perfect and implementation to writing code for various features with proficient UX experience.  • Working knowledge of graphic design and handling various kinds of media integration.  • Experience in WebApplications including Mobile Development Life Cycle (SDLC), TDD mobile testing app requirements and specifications, design, construction, testing.  • Hand on exposure with relational data base, data modeling & design and had good knowledge in Jenkins & GIT version control and involved in SCRUM meetings.  • Strong knowledge in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) process, which includes requirement analysis, designing, implementing, debugging, testing, fixing and maintaining applications.  • Excellent communication, organizational skills, attention to detail and the ability to meet tight deadlines & had good exposure in healthcare and financial sectors and can able to work independently. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. iOS Developer DIRECTV - Los Angeles, CA November 2018 to Present Description:DirecTV application helps users to watch thousands of your favorite movies and shows, Live or On Demand. We can stream or download your home DVD recordings to your iOS device. Using this app users can record favorite movies and shows from anywhere.    Responsibilities:  • Created models in MVC, TDD and development of delegates for updating model information.  • Created of various views, table views, customized views and popovers using Swift.  • Worked with XamarinUIKit and Cyan Mobility Framework for development  • Working on web service calls, XML and JSON parsing included in the project.  • Working with UIKit Framework, Event Kit, Map Kit, React native framework for development and maintenance.  • Working on Storyboardand developed code using Swift.  • Debugging issues at onsite whenever required as well synchronizing data developed on mobile application with backend applications.  • Followed a work data flow principle for design and development using XC test.  • Worked on Infor EAM application in the modules of asset Management and testing.  • Worked on Payroll HR related Apps and pushed them to app store.  • Worked with HTML 5, Swift 2.0, web app and Mongo DBand then imported to native application.  • Pre-fetching data for different views for smooth screen transitioning.  • Custom UI implemented with XIBs, and Manual Retain/Release memory management.  • Developed Navigation between views was mixture of using UI Navigation Controller, UI Gesture Recognizer, and UI Popover Controller for storyboard.  • Took care of Code Review, Code Fixes and bug Fixes.  • Performed all tasks from UI design and implementation to writing code for various features with proficient UX experience.  Environment: iOS, iOS SDK, Objective C, Swift 2.0, CSS3, Xcode, XC Test, Agile Methodology, Interface builder, Cyan mobility framework, EAM application, HTML, REST, JIRA, MVC, TDD, Agile Methodology, JavaScript, JQuery, GIT, Xamarin. Sr.iOS Developer CNN News - New York, NY July 2016 to November 2018 Description:CNN Money Stream is an application for iPad and iPhone platform's that provides news streams to user based on user preferences by adding streams. Users can discover news about top companies, business leaders, the economy and markets. Users can explore award-winning videos and stories from CNN Money, delivered right to your iPhone and iPad.    Responsibilities:  • Created models in MVC, TDD, FDD and development of delegates for updating model information throughout the app.  • Worked on Storyboardand developed application using Swift 3 and Swift 4.0.  • Created of various views like table views and collection views for reusability and customization brought the application.  • Working on web service calls JSON and parsing the data to database.  • Developed interface for stocks with Bar graphs and Chart's using realm and charts to show the stock values.  • Worked with GDB, LLDB and Xcode for debugging. Working with Subversion to checkout and update the codebase changes.  • Followed a work data flow principle for design and development using XC test  • Writing Unit test cases using XCTest framework.  • Integrated Crash analytics to track the crashes.  • Modeled both table and collection views in to one to show different streams with horizontal and vertical scroll activity as required.  • Used Twitter SDK, Social framework for implementing functionalities like Twitter sharing, Facebook sharing and text sharing via iMessages.  • Managed data and memory management from streamlining code and using various debugging tests.  • Pre-fetching data from database for different views for smooth screen transitioning.  • Performed all tasks from UI design and implementation to writing code for various features with proficient UX experience.  Environment: iOS 11, iOS SDK, Objective C, Swift 3.0, Swift 4.0, CSS3, Xcode, XCTest, XUITests, Agile Methodology, Interface builder, REST, JIRA, MVC, TDD, Agile Methodology, Carthage,Twitter SDK, Chart's SDK, Web Image Framework, jQuery, UI, GIT. Mobile Developer CTIS Inc - Rockville, MD March 2014 to July 2016 Description: Health Connect - Prince George's  Health Connect app, a creation of the Health Policy Research Consortium (HPRC) empowers community residents to instantly find nearby resources for healthy living and explore the treasure of community wellness, makes your fitness on for a better health tomorrow. This app is applied on iPhone and Android Operating Systems.    Responsibilities:  • Developing, designing user interface using the Story Boards, XIB's and implementing them for mobile applications, integrating with various Databases and Client-Server applications in iPhone/iPad and Google Android applications using objective-C and java.  • Working with latest Android and IOS SDK's and integrating them with 3rd party frameworks for both Android and IOS, making the web services calls using the REST, SOAP API's and parsing the data using JSON, XML by creating the request from client to server.  • Working with different Story Boards&Auto Layouts, UI Table Views, creating the Custom Table Cells and integration with Google Maps SDK's.  • Had good knowledge on Xcode 6,7,7.2, Eclipse, and Android Studio IDE's & good hands on experience with the UI/UX development and animation as well  • Working with app up gradation & maintenance to support the latest IOS& Android versions and implementing the new features and releasing the app versions accordingly.  • Had good exposure in Object Oriented Programming with experience in implementing MVC, and Singleton design patterns& Concurrency programming.  • Had good experience with Network connections (AFNetworking) using NSURLSessionto, which is more secured to post, request and get response data.  • Can work independently or within a cross-functional team of testers & developers and involved in code reviews, bug fixes to ensure that task deadlines are met on time and meet the business requirements.  • Experience in debugging, bug fixing & deployment of app in Google play store and have supported the apps till version 6.0 (Marshmallow).  • Working with the complete development life cycle of IOS & Android applications from inception through distribution via the App store &Googleplay store and supporting them.  Environments: iOS 8, 9.1, 9.2, 9.3.1, Xcode 6.3, 6.4, 7.0, iPad, iPhone, Objective-C, UIKit, JSON, XML, SQLite. iOS Developer Honeywell - Morristown, NJ December 2012 to March 2014 Description:Application is helps us to see what is happening at your home from anywhere in the world. This app provides lifestyle enhancing functionality for today's busy home and business owner-combining remote-control security functions with the ability to view live, streaming video of your home or business wherever you are for the ultimate peace of mind.    Responsibilities:  • Worked extensively with Objective-C and Cocoa frameworks.  • Had good experience in developing the Front-endweb-basedUI/UXusing HTML, CSS across a broad array of interactive web & mobile applications.  • Involved working on critical UI designs using Relative layout, Frame Layout, Table layout, Grid view and List View.  • Worked with UIKit Framework for development& maintenance.  • Added animation between UIViews for smooth transitioning and better user experience.  • Worked with Backend team to display the correct data format in devices.  • Responsible for Creating Models and Services in conformance with the WSDL's provided.  • Responsible for Service Integration Development and Testing.  • Used the same XIB to design for iPhone 5 and older iPhones by using Auto-layout.  • Custom UI implemented with XIBs, and Manual Retain/Release memory management.  • Created the complete database using Core data & used various Storyboards for the UI design implementation and which makes compatible with all simulators including iPad by using the Auto layouts concept. Took care of Code Review, Code Fixes and bug Fixes.    Environments: iOS 7, 7.1, Xcode 5.1, 5.2.3, 5.4.1, iPad, iPhone, Objective-C, UIKit, JSON, XML, SQLite. iOS Developer QVC, Westchester, PA September 2010 to December 2012 Description:QVC is an American cable, satellite and broadcast television network, and Multinational Corporation specializing in televised home shopping that is owned by Liberty Interactive. Across, the world they are in different countries like in China, Germany and Italy.  Responsibilities:  • Web services deployment and testing on rest client.  • Performing all tasks from UI design and implementation to writing code for various features.  • Designing the complete MVC flow for the application with UI components and controllers to be used for iPhone.  Working on web service calls, XML and JSON parsing included in the project.  • Working with UIKit Framework for development and maintenance.  • Debugging issues at onsite whenever required as well synchronizing data developed on mobile application with backend applications.  • Worked with GDB and Xcode for debugging. Working with Subversion to checkout and update the codebase changes.  • Worked with HTML 5 web app and then imported to native application.  • Also, during the project got to use apache Cordova for the native application API's  • Complete data base designing for both android and iPhone.  • Publishing the application on App store and then pushing updates after every sprint release.  Environment: iOS, Mac OS X, Objective C, Bluetooth, XCode, Android Studio, Agile Methodology, REST, JIRA, Agile Methodology, Firebase, JavaScript, JQuery, GIT. iOS Developer Xerox - Dallas, TX May 2008 to September 2010 Description:Application is designed to help users to connect to LCD Monitors, photo copiers, Xerox Phase printers, multifunction printers, large-volume digital printers to easily send files and documents and JPG.    Responsibilities:  • Followed a work data flow principle for design and development.  • Created User Interface/ Navigation Layout for the application.  • Improved the application efficiency with multi-threading.  • Worked with Photoshop CS5 for image editing and resize them to suit the iPhone and iPad resolution.  • Worked with Instruments tool extensively at the end of development cycle to minimize memory leaks and assure overall application stability.  • Worked with Fail Compose View Controller to create an email page that allow user to share deal with friends or give feedback to Titular.  • Used UITabBar, UINavigationView, UITableView, MKMap, UIActionsheet, and other View Controllers to build the UI.  • Worked closely within a cross functional team of testers and developers.    Environment: iOS 4.0 and 4.1 (iPhone SDK), Mac OS 4. X, Objective C, Xcode 3.2.6, 4.0, Cocoa, Cocoa Touch, Cocoa framework, IPhone Simulator 4.1, XML, JSON. Java Developer Verizon Wireless - Irving, TX February 2006 to May 2008 Description:Verizon Wireless is the leading wireless network provider in US. The IFE project deals with modernizing Verizon wireless billing system. The project has various modules developed as micorservices. The services are developed to handle huge amount of data with minimal processing time. I had opportunity to work on every module start developing from scratch and gain good amount of knowledge and experience in various technologies.    Responsibilities:  • Develop multiple application services which helps in various phases of billing system flow.  • Develop application that process huge data files (~500GB).  • Develop module which converts ebcdic file to ascii and apply business logic using SpringIntegration.  • Develop application using Spring Integration to Sort data files.  • Develop application to reprint letters based on customer request. This was developed usingspring integration and batch.  • Developed application to merge data files and apply business logic and sorting and translation capabilities using Spring Integration framework.  • Developed applications using Core java and implemented data structures and algorithms.  • Develop REST webservices to support user interface for the billing system process.  • Integrate Rest webservices using Spring framework and hibernate 4.1.  • Hibernate framework is used in persistence layer for mapping an object-oriented domain model to the relational database.  • Successfully set up the production environment and deployed the application as per the go live schedule.  • Perform analysis on various issues by debugging the code.  • Worked in Linux environment and handled various infrastructure activities.    Environment: Java 1.8, Spring Integraton, Spring Batch,JAX-RS, Gradle, Git, Jenkins, Tomcat Application Server, Hibernate 4.1, Spring Integraton, Spring Batch, Spring Boot, Oracle 12c, Linux RHEL, SQL Developer, Source Tree. Education Bachelor's Skills Android, Android sdk, Html5, Ios, Ipad, Iphone, Objective-c, Xcode, Visual studio, C++, Javascript, Json, Xml, Database, Ms sql server, Ms sql server 2005, Sql server, Sql server 2005, Mysql, Sql Certifications/Licenses Driver's License