Sr. Software Engineer Sr. Software Engineer Sr. Software Engineer - Capital One, Mc Lean, VA • Over 13 years of experience in the development of enterprise applications  • Extensive experience in developing J2EE Frameworks and components using Servlets, JSPs, JDBC, RMI, EJBs (Stateless, Stateful, CMPs, BMPs and MDB), Struts, JMS, XML and Web Services  • Experience in developing front end applications using Angular, NodeJs, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, CSS, XSL, XSLT and Ajax.  • Extensive experience in designing the persistence layers using Hibernate and JDBC  • Strong experience in using Spring for the dependency injection of beans.  • Extensive experience in the deployment of schema-based and code-based web service deployments that include development of WSDL/XML SCHEMA/ JAX-RPC end points  • Knowledge on Hadoop framework including MapReduce, PIG,HIVE, YARN, HBASE,SQOOP,FLUME etc  • Experience using TIBCO framework.  • Strong experience in applying design patterns such as MVC, Business Delegate, Front Controller, Session Facade, Value Object, Factory, Singleton, DAO, Proxy etc.,  • Experienced in creating Complex SQL Queries, writing PL/SQL Stored procedures, functions, triggers and Exceptions.  • Strong expertise on working with databases using Oracle9i, Oracle 10g, Oracle 11g, PostGres and MongoDB  • Experience in using version control management tools like GitHub, CVS and Perforce  • Hands on experience with Junit, Gherkins and Selenium in developing test cases  • Experienced in writing UNIX Shell Scripts.  • Good working knowledge of Maven and ANT for project build.  • Developed logging standard and mechanism based on Log4j.  • Knowledge of IDEs that include Jdeveloper, myeclipse, GoLand and deployment on Web Logic 7.x, JBOSS.  • Experience in using AWS EC2, ECS , ALB, ELB's , Lambda, Route53 services  • Experience working extensively on both UNIX and Windows environments.  • Proactive team player and amicable in working in a team environment or individually  • Strong communication skills and able to mentor the team members on frameworks Work Experience Sr. Software Engineer Capital One, Mc Lean, VA June 2016 to Present Project: KYCBOBC, AMP    Description: Worked on KYC (Know your customer) and AMP (Acquisition Modernization Project). Worked closely with Product Owners in understanding the requirements and designing the solutions. Created Micoroservices using lambdas and SpringBoot Application using GoLang, Python Scala and Java. Created and configured Jenkins jobs to automatically deploy the applications through pipeline. Using AWS CLI and CFT, created required infrastructure ECS, EC2 instances, ELB's, SQ, Route53    Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with Product Owners in understanding the requirements and designing the solutions.  • Created REST MicroServices using Spring Boot.  • Developed lambdas using GoLang, Python, Scala and Java.  • Created the web pages using Angular4 and NodeJS  • Worked on creating a decision engine by using the data models.  • Created an SDP and SQS topics to publish and consume messages.  • Created a testing framework by writing JUnits, ATDD's using Cucumber/Gherkin for the backend and selenium for the front end.  • Created and configured Jenkins jobs for automatic deployments.  • Using AWS CLI and CFT, created ECS, EC2 instances, ALB, ELB, SQS, Route 53 for the application.    Environment/Technologies: JDK 1.9, Hibernate, Spring, GoLang, Python, Scala, Apache Kafka, SQS, Angular4, NodeJS, Cucumber, Gherkins, PostGres, MongoDB, Oracle, JBOSS, AWS, GitHub, Maven Java/J2EE Architect Delphi Technologies - East Brunswick, NJ February 2013 to Present Project: OASIS  Client: MEDPRO    Description: Worked for MEDPRO on the OASIS web application. OASIS is the advanced solution available for the insurance and risk management industries. This application is for the underwriters to manage the professional liabilities of the insured.    Client: MEDPRO  Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering the requirements and designing/architecting the workflows.  • Also managed the production support team and resolved the critical issues happening there.  • Implementing SOAP based webservices and refactored the code to support the SOA.  • Used JAXB and JAX-WS to parse the XML  • Also developed few SOAP based web services on TIBCO layer to make it directly talk to the DB.  • Used JMS for messaging.  • Got some training on HADOOP on how to implement the Big Data solutions for the data analysis.  • Extensively used PL/SQL stored procedure to write the business logic.  • Used SPRING for dependency injection and Transaction management.  • Mentored the new hires on OASIS Web application.  • Used Perforce as version control    Environment/Technologies: JDK 1.7, Struts 2, XML, JDBC, JSP, Java Script, JMS, Oracle 11g, SOAP web services, JAXB, JAX-WS, Spring, Hadoop, mapReduce, YARN, PIG, HIVE, SQOOP, FLUME, HBASE Java/J2EE Developer Bottomline Technologies - Great Neck, NY March 2008 to February 2013 Project: WEBSERIES    Description: WEBSERIES is a web-enabled payment and reporting platform enabling organizations to facilitate financial reporting and payment requests between departments, employees and trading partners without time-delay. Funds management can be automated with the use of this application.  Client: Bank of America, ANZ, SWIFT    Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with the BA's in gathering the requirements and preparing the use cases.  • Java SDK 1.6 is used to develop the webseries application.  • Various design patterns like Singleton, DAO, Factory are used throughout the application.  • Developed components under J2EE architecture using Servlets and JSP's.  • Extensively used Java Scripts to do client side validations and mappings on the screen.  • Used Dojo and involved in converting the old java script to dojo.  • Struts MVC is used through out the application.  • CSS stylesheets are used for styling the web pages.  • EJB's are used throughout the application.  • Involved in complex client and server side validations using Java and Java script.  • Analyzed and changed the code to meet the performance and security standards.  • Designed Queries,Stored Procedures and triggers on Oracle 11g database.  • Local deployment of applications on tomcat and production on Websphere.  • Used CVS as version control.    Environment/Technologies: JDK 1.5 , JDK 1.6, J2EE 1.4, Struts 2, Servlets 2.5, Servlet 3.0, XML, JDBC, JSP, Java Script, Dojo 1.5, Oracle 9i, Oracle 10g, Oracle 11g, CVS, TomCat 5.5, Tomcat 6.0, MyEclipse 6.0, WAS 6.0, Log4J Sr. Java/J2EE Developer New York State Cyber Security - Albany, NY November 2007 to March 2008 Project: CIRIS    Description: CIRIS is a web application developed for New York State Authorities to search, locate and visualize information about critical assets and infrastructure components. This project also aims at also developing the Web Services using SOA architecture to other State departments who need to use this application to access the CIRIS data. Importance was placed on making the system user-friendly and non-technical, therefore not requiring the users to have experience in GIS or databases.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the requirements gathering, analysis, development and deployment of software using RUP methodology.  • Developed both bottom-up and top-down Web Services based on SOA architecture using Axis2 plugin.  • Used Spring for the injection of beans and also for transaction management.  • Used various design patterns like Singleton, Factory, MVC, SOA, Service Locator and Data Access Objects in the development of code.  • Used Struts MVC Architecture for the development of web pages.  • Used Hibernate as the persistence layer for accessing the database.  • Integrated Hibernate with Spring and managed the hibernate properties in the Spring Configuration file.  • Developed the JSP web pages and implemented JSTL and Struts Tag Libraries  • Developed XSLT stylesheets to transform the XML responses produced by the web services.  • Implemented JAXP to parse the XML structure.  • Used Oracle 9i as the backend database and used JDBC to access the database.  • Monitored the Soap messages on tcp monitor for debugging purposes.  • Developed a generic error handling mechanism for the complete application and done error handling for the developed code.  • Wrote servlets to route the requests to the web service.  • Successfully implemented the cache for the webserver in tracking the user.  • Developed the code using MyEclipse 6.0 on Apache Tomcat Server.  • Successfully deployed and tested the applications on IBM Websphere Application Server 6.0 in QA Environment.  • Implemented logging using Log4J for the easy debugging of the code.  • Used CVS for version control.    Environment/Technologies: JDK 1.4 , J2EE 1.4, Axis2 1.3, Struts 1.1, Hibernate 3.0, Spring 1.2, Servlets 2.4, SOAP, XML, JDBC, Oracle 9i, CVS, TomCat 5.5, MyEclipse 6.0, WAS 6.0, Log4J Sr.J2EE Developer DYNPRO INC - Durham, NC October 2006 to October 2007 Project: FLX platform    Description: Farelogix Inc. is a recognized leader in providing low-cost, multi-source distribution and independent faring technology to the global travel industry. Farelogix developed a FLX platform (XML based solution), which provides the total content in a low-cost distributed environment. The FLX platform dynamically aggregates the content from four major Global Distribution Systems(GDS). The four key audiences for Farelogix are Travel Supppliers, Travel Sellers, Travel Buyers and Travel Site Search engines. Travel agents use the FLX platform to source the travel content against infinite number of suppliers.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in several phases of RUP such as inception, elaboration, contruction for the software development of the travel industries which use Farelogix FLX platform for the acquisition of data.  • Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several design patterns such as MVC, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Data Access Object, Singleton and Factory.  • Developed user interface on Jakarta Struts Framework using JSP and HTML.  • Configured the Struts Framework by providing the mappings for the Action Classes, Form Beans in the struts-config.xml file.  • Used JSP, Struts tag libraries and Jakarta Struts Tags for implementing the user views.  • Used various Custom Spring DAO's in order to retrieve the records from suitable tables in the database.  • Implemented Hibernate and configured it to store the persistent data as an Object-Relational Mapping (ORM) tool for communicating with database.  • Implemented Dependency Injection feature of Spring Framework integrated into Struts Frame work with Hibernate.  • Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information such as payment status report with a Queue as destination.  • Used MDBs for processing the status reports  • Developed new interfaces using Java to the different airlines and car rental business partners.  • Used Java Script and XSLT on the XML file to convert an XML file of Farelogix type to the format specific to a particular airline.  • Implemented web services and were called using SOAP protocol to generate the payment status reports.  • Also used JSP, HTML, CSS, DHTML, Java Script to develop presentation layer for web pages.  • Involved in writing Ant scripts to build and deploy the application.  • Used JDBC to access the database. Wrote complex SQL Queries, PL/SQL procedures in Oracle 9i  • Monitored the logs using Log4J and fixed the problems  • Wrote Unix Shell Scripts to automate the test cases  • Implemented test cases and tested with J-Unit to analyze the correctness of the code at various levels.  • Used CVS for version control and ClearCase for change control.  • Used IBM RAD 6.0 for development and deployed the application on WAS 6.0    Environment/Technologies: JDK 1.4 , J2EE 1.4, Struts 1.1, EJB 2.1(MDB), JMS 1.1, Hibernate 3.0, Spring 1.2, Servlets 2.4, JSP 2.0, Java Script, SOAP, XML, XSLT, JDBC, Oracle 9i, JUnit, CVS, HTML, CSS, DHTML, IBM WAS 6.0, RAD 6.0, Log4J Education Masters Computer Science University of New Mexico - Albuquerque, NM August 2006 Bachelors Electronics And Communication Engineering Andhra University May 2002 Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate