Sr Service Now Developer Sr Service Now <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Service Now Developer - ETRADE Scottsdale, AZ Work Experience Sr Service Now Developer ETRADE - Jersey City, NJ March 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked with business users to identify and refine business requirements and workflows.  • Good knowledge in Java & java script programming skill.  • Involved in developing various forms using SQL development Skill.  • Understanding of IT service management and the ITIL business process.  • Supported and created an Access Control rule (ACL).  • Involved in creating the adhoc reports in ServiceNow.  • Created the new Applications and Modules, custom tables in ServiceNow.  • Created, monitored, modified, and publish service catalog workflows with approvals.  • Responsible for the Service Now tool administration module and creation of new Groups, Roles, IT Services, Application, Business Services, Routing rules and Blackout Freeze rules.  • Involved in loading of data into CMDB using discovery and file imports.  • Created complex transform scripts in transforming the data into the SNOW database.  • Assisted in Release Management during product and batch releases and managed documents and verified the changes.  • Analyzed various problems and created new solutions and new techniques.  • Created Buttons and context menus both on form and lists using UI actions.  • Written script includes and invoked them in business rules and client scripts.  • Worked with windows team, network team and Asset team in order to check for the data collected through discovery is accurate.  • Implemented CMDB Bi-directional Web Services integration. It involves consuming rest- full web services, publishing SOAP web services, using Business Rules, Script Includes, UI Actions and Other Service-Now scripting modules to support data synchronization and business logic. Design and implement new functionality using Business Rules, UI Policies, and Access Lists etc.  • Involved in LDAP integration with ServiceNow for obtaining users and groups.    Environment: Service Now, Asset Management, Incident Management, Problem Management, Fire eye, HTML, Java script, CSS, CMDB. Sr Service Now Developer Citizens - Cranston, RI May 2014 to February 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in integration and changes with regards to the Service-Now tool.  • As a Service Now developer, generated Buttons and context menus using UI actions on forms and lists.  • Creating scheduled tasks, monitoring the ticket queues and generating statistics.  • Interacted with ITSM Tools like BMC Remedy, HP Service Manager and their implementation.  • Involved in migration between various environments in Service Now using Update Sets and Import Sets.  • Worked with reporting and configuring service level agreements (SLAs).  • Design and implement new functionality using Business Rules, UI Policies, and Access Lists etc.  • Involved in Implementation, Customization and Maintenance of ITIL modules such as Incident, Change, Problem, Knowledge, Service Catalog, CMDB in Service Now  • Created data sources and loaded the Service-Now tables with different data formats.  • Involved in creation of reports, dashboards in Service Now.  • Strong working knowledge of various Service-Now components such as Service Desk, Change Management, Incident Management, Asset Management, Problem Management, CMDB, Knowledge Management, Mobility and Service Request Management.  • Imported Configuration Items (CI) from third party applications using import set tables.  • Worked on DISCOVERY and set up mid servers and check for the connectivity.  • Hands on experience in ITSM platform (Service Now, Remedy, Remedy Force).  • Experience on CMDB, Discovery and integration with other external modules.  • Designed email templates by using html and jelly scripting and used them in notifications.  • Worked on integrating Service Now with tally for obtaining the order information.  • Provide advanced support for Service-Now by troubleshooting a variety of difficult software problems, implementing bug fixes and performing root cause analysis.  • Experience on Glide and Jelly Scripting, Java Script, HTML, XML, AJAX. Done integration with 3rd party tools using (web services, SOAP, email, MID server).    Environment: Service-Now JavaScript, Perl, Jelly, C/C++, VBScript, Crystal reports 2008/9.x, Netcool, CSS, HTML, Web Services, CMDB, BIRT 2.5.1, SRM 7.6, MS SQL server 2008, BMC Remedy ARS 8.1, ITSM 8.1 Suite, SLM 8.1, SRM 8.1, RKM 8.1 and CMDB 8.1. ServiceNow Developer United Health Care, Wisconsin, WI July 2013 to April 2014 Responsibilities:  • Provide day to day support in resolving production support issues.  • Responsible for developing technical solutions on the ServiceNow platform to satisfy the business needs of the IT department.  • Managed Projects /tasks activities using Agile /Scrum within ServiceNow.  • Managed / Organized daily standup calls for project team members.  • Participated in Project management / planning discussions, tasks and activities.  • Provided feedback to Project managers on project activities, tasks, milestones, status reports.  • Provided feedback to Project managers on project activities, tasks, milestones and in ensuring work is performed within scope, time and on budget for various agencies.  • Identified critical paths, critical tasks and identified strategies/ solution in mitigating them.  • Activated domain separation plugins in a multi company / MSP environment.  • Configured domains to separate company data in a multi tenancy environment.  • Configured Business rules, Filters, UI & Data policies specific to each domain.  • Created reports specific to each domain /data specific to each company/domain.  • Configured security rules and policies specific to each domain / company data.  • Have created categorizations/ Choice lists specific to each domain/ company.  • Create, develop, and implement workflows, custom reports, and prototypes.  • Identify system deficiencies and recommend solutions.  • Design and implement new requirements and new features based on business needs.  • Migrate data from Remedy ITSM 7.6.04 to ServiceNow.  • Understand and Email Communications/ Notifications from Remedy ITSM 7.6.04 to ServiceNow.  Environment: Netegrity Site Minder 4.x & 5.x , iPlanet Directory 4.x Architecture and Deployment, MicroSoft IIS 4.x, 5.x, iPlanet Enterprise Server 4.x, 5.x; TCP/ IP /PKI, Sun ONE Web Server 6.0; Sun ONE Directory Server 5.0, 5.1 Service Now Developer Zurich North America Insurance - Chicago, IL August 2012 to June 2013 Responsibilities:  • Worked with business users to identify and refine business requirements and workflows.  • Good knowledge in Java & java script programming skill.  • Involved in developing various forms using SQL development Skill.  • Understanding of IT service management and the ITIL business process.  • Supported and created an Access Control rule (ACL).  • Involved in creating the adhoc reports in ServiceNow.  • Created the new Applications and Modules, custom tables in ServiceNow.  • Created, monitored, modified, and publish service catalog workflows with approvals.  • Responsible for the Service Now tool administration module and creation of new Groups, Roles, IT Services, Application, Business Services, Routing rules and Blackout Freeze rules.  • Involved in loading of data into CMDB using discovery and file imports.  • Created complex transform scripts in transforming the data into the SNOW database.  • Assisted in Release Management during product and batch releases and managed documents and verified the changes.  • Written script includes and invoked them in business rules and client scripts.  • Worked with windows team, network team and Asset team in order to check for the data collected through discovery is accurate.  • Implemented CMDB Bi-directional Web Services integration. It involves consuming rest- full web services, publishing SOAP web services, using Business Rules, Script Includes, UI Actions and Other Service-Now scripting modules to support data synchronization and business logic. Design and implement new functionality using Business Rules, UI Policies, and Access Lists etc.  • Involved in LDAP integration with ServiceNow for obtaining users and groups.    Environment: Service Now, Asset Management, Incident Management, Problem Management, Fire eye, HTML, Java script, CSS, CMDB. Java/Remedy Developer Siemens - Bengaluru, Karnataka July 2010 to August 2012 Responsibilities:  • Installed and configured Remedy Change Management application.  • Involved in designing and implementation of application flow.  • Involved in Developing UI screens in Administrator module.  • Developed Servlets and JSP pages for displaying both dynamic and static pages using HTML and CSS.  • Worked on Common Request System, Problem Tracking, Time Tracking System, Remedy application projects.  • Involved in implementing Internationalization for supporting different country languages using Unicode formats.  • Extensively involved in creating Remedy Forms, Active Links, AL Guides, Filters, Filter Guides, and Escalations for work flow.  • Involved in installing and configuring Remedy Approval server and integrated with our internal application by defining various roles and rules of the approval server.  • Created various Crystal Reports such as Monthly reports, SLA Reports etc., on Demand as well as Scheduled reports.  • Extensively involved in the customization of Remedy Helpdesk Application 5.6 for the support center department.    Environment: Java 1.4, Servlets, JSP, Struts, Remedy ARS 4.x, Remedy Import, Windows 2000/XP, MS SQL Server 2000. Java Developer CSC Corp - Bengaluru, Karnataka September 2008 to June 2010 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for Design and Development of business and presentation layers.  • Developed the application using the MVC design pattern and encapsulated front end from the underlying business logic, and data model.  • Responsible for generation of XSLT.  • Worked on Struts Framework at later stages of the project to support ongoing development by the developers.  • Created Dynamic web pages using HTML, and XSLT.  • Developed front end templates and hand-code pages using HTML, JavaScript, and CSS.  • Developed EJB's which invokes the Unit-Tel web services using apache axis SOA  • Implemented different EJBs like State full session and stateless session beans.  • Developed the JSPs as web based user interface validated all client Connect screens using Java Scripts.  • Implemented STRUTS Framework including, creating templates for Action Form classes.  • Implemented internationalization concepts using Struts Framework.  • Developed XML file for each server. The XML files have information of all the components reporting to that server. XSL was used to transform XML document. GUI will use this data to draw Tables and Menus with specified attributes.  • Created unit test cases, tested application using J Unit testing tool.    Environment: Core Java, J2EE, CSS, Servlets, JSP, Struts, Tiles, XML, Tomcat, and MySQL, EJB. Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jdk, Jms, Jndi, Jsp, Jstl, Servlets, Struts, Ajax, Asp, Dreamweaver, Asp.net, Tomcat, Web logic, Web sphere