Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> LinkedLoops INC Austin, TX • Software developer with 7+ years of experience in web services, product and application development.  • Experienced in developing web based applications and Client-Server technologies using Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Struts, JSF, Spring, JDBC, JMS, JNDI, Hibernate, Tiles, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Proficient in core Java and its frameworks.  • Experience in Web, Internet and Intranet based development-using J2EE with Spring MVC architecture and JSF Framework.  • Experienced with databases such as Oracle and MS SQL Server to manage tables, views, indexes, sequences, stored procedures, functions, triggers and packages.  • Expertise in Cutting Edge Technologies like Log4j, and XML with good experience in Developing and Deploying applications on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic and JBoss.  • Extensively used Maven and Ant for build and deployments.  • Have good working knowledge on XML Suite of Technologies XML, XSL, XSLT and validations with DTD & XML Schema and processing files with SAX, DOM Parsers.  • Extensive experience with the IDEs such as Eclipse and RAD  • Experience in using version control tools like MKS Integrity client, SVN.  • Strong knowledge of all phases of SDLC, software testing (Functional, Integration) and defect life cycle.  • Having the knowledge of HP quality center as a bug-tracking tool.  • Involved in reviews and working sessions to understand the requirements & system design, defect tracking & root cause analysis.  • Exposed to Agile Methodologies like SCRUM and Test Driven Development.  • Excellent team player and a good team lead.  • Effective verbal and written communication skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer BNY MELLON April 2014 to Present Pershing Single Sign On  Pershing project facilitates single sign on link between HSBCnet and Pershing (BNY Mellon). Single sign on link was established via encryption and by sharing the public key certificate from both systems.  Roles and Responsibility:  • Performed client requirements analysis, project planning and its execution  • Developed logic for SAML (Secured Assertion Markup Language) requests.  • Performed unit testing and functionality testing  • Involved in code reviews to make sure the best practices are maintained in development process.  • Co-ordinate with BNY Mellon for pershing link  • Co-ordinate with the testing team and fixed issues at various stages of the application development.  • Developed test requirements by decomposing the functional requirements, interacting with End-users, business analysts and developers.  Environment: Spring, Portlets, JavaScript, Velocity, XML and HTML (for UI) Java Developer HSBC TECHNOLOGY & SERVICES, INC July 2013 to March 2014 Message Center - Self Service  Message center handles all communication between customers and HSBC bank.  Roles and Responsibility:  • Involved in Analyzing the client requirements, designing, developing and testing of message center  • Designed architecture for the web module using the Spring MVC framework and implemented the design of UI in velocity.  • Played a lead role on this project and managed task assignments for the team.  • Designed and developed Business Services using Spring Framework (Dependency Injection), Business Delegate & DAO Design Patterns.  • Participated in unit testing and functionality testing  • Involved in writing & reviewing Design Approach Documents  • Conducted code reviews to make sure the best practices are maintained in development process.  Environment: Spring, Portlets, JavaScript, XML, Velocity and HTML (for UI) Java Developer HSBC GLOBAL TECHNOLOGY - Pune, Maharashtra June 2012 to June 2013 Account opening and maintenance tool facilitates customer to open a new account and maintain account.  Roles and Responsibility:  • Developed the application under J2EE Architecture using Spring, Websphere and Velocity  • Wrote programs to archive the log files on a daily basis to enable faster troubleshooting  • Extensively used Core Spring Framework for Dependency Injections of components  • Developed Class Diagrams and Interaction Diagrams using UML with Rational Rose  • Prepared Java/J2EE development structure for Eclipse, Maven  • Involved in coding for JUnit Test cases  • Did mentoring for junior members for different module of the project  Environment: Spring, Portlets, JavaScript, XML, Velocity and HTML (for UI) Senior Software Engineer Exception Management December 2010 to June 2012 Exception Management tool handles all transactions for positive pay and retail lockbox handled by clients and customer  Roles and Responsibility:  • Involved in analyzing the client requirements, designing, developing and testing of Exception Management tool  • Designed and developed Business Services using Spring Framework (Dependency Injection), Business Delegate & DAO Design Patterns  • Involved in writing & reviewing Design Approach Documents  • Conducted code reviews to make sure the best practices are maintained in development process  Environment: Spring, Portlets, JavaScript, XML, Velocity and HTML (for UI) Java Developer SUNBRIDGE SOFTWARE SERVICES - Pune, Maharashtra February 2010 to November 2010 CSOS handles all Ordering processes, carried out from Client & Distributors  Roles and Responsibility:  • Successfully built and maintained a variety of customer facing applications  • Designed Use case diagrams, Class diagrams and sequence diagrams using UML  • Developed and implemented the MVC architectural pattern including JSP, Servlets, EJB and Form beans  • Written Junit Test cases for unit testing.  • Worked with QA team for testing and resolve defects.  • Mentored junior developers to improve the quality of work.  Environment: Servlets, JSP, Beans, Applets, Sql Server 2005. Cedardale Distributors Pharmacy June 2009 to January 2010 Roles and Responsibility:  • Interacted with business users to collect the requirements.  • Developed a web application based on J2EE MVC framework.  • Designed use case diagrams, Class diagrams and Sequence diagrams.  • Designed the database for different modules of this project.  • Involved in creating scripts and queries for PL SQL.  • Used parsers like SAX, DOM for parsing XML documents.  Environment: Servlets, JSP, Beans, XML, Sql Server 2005. PayBridge - Payroll July 2008 to May 2009 PayBridge is the internal web based payroll system.  Roles and Responsibility:  • Designed and developed a web site application using J2EE, JSP, Servlets, XML, EJB under MVC framework  • Created various SQL queries and used in JDBC connectivity to access the database  • Developed a JavaScript behavior code for user interaction  • Developed the business layer logic and implemented EJBs Session beans  • Used Apache Tomcat server for deployment of the application  • Provided the production support on implementation of the project  Environment: Servlets, JSP, Beans, XML, Sql Server 2005 Education Master's Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Programming Languages: Java J2SE, Sun Java JDK, C, C++  Java Technologies: J2EE, Spring, Servlets, JSP, EJB, Java Beans, JDBC, Velocity  Internet: HTML5, XML, XSLT, HTML, Javascript  Repositories Used: Maven, Nexus, MKS Integrity Client  Databases: Oracle 8i, MS SQL Server 6.5, ODBC, MySQL, Microsoft Access  WebServers: IBM WebSphere 3.5, Weblogic 5.1, Tomcat 4.0.2  IDEs: IBM Rational Application Developer 4.0, Eclipse, IBM Rational Team Concert (RTC)  Operating Systems: Windows 2000/NT, Windows 95-98, Unix  Object Technology: UML, Design Patterns  Other: Struts Framework, Hibernate, MVC Model-View-Controller design pattern, Multithreaded programming Threads, JUnit Test