Sr Java/J2EE Developer Sr <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Java/J2EE Developer - Pfizer New York, NY • Over 7 years of experience in the field of Software Engineering involving full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Experience in OOAD (Object Oriented analysis and Development), MVC architecture (Model, View and Controller) and OOP (Object Oriented Programming).  • Experience in developing applications in domains like Insurance and Finance.  • Experience in creating UML models and diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Experience in implementing JAVA/J2EE technologies such as Servlets, JSF, JSP, JNDI, RMI, JMS, SAX, DOM, JAXB and JDBC.  • Hands on experience in several J2EE design patterns such as Singleton, MVC Pattern, Factory Pattern, Session Façade, Business Delegate, Data Access Object, etc.  • Experience in developing projects in JAVA/J2EE platforms using ICEfaces, Spring Framework, Struts Framework, Web Services and web frameworks such as AJAX, GWT, jQuery.  • Hands on experience in using Hibernate and JPA.  • Experience in implementing Web Services using SOAP, WSDL, REST and UDDI.  • Experience and knowledge in writing SQL Queries, Stored Procedures and Triggers in Oracle, SQL Server and MySQL.  • Experience in using IDE tools such as Eclipse, IBM RAD, STS and JDeveloper.  • Experience in deploying applications using WebSphere, WebLogic, and JBoss Application Servers.  • Experience in using various Configuration Management tools like SVN, CVS and IBM ClearCase  • Team player and self-starter with effective communication, motivation and organizational skills combined with attention to detail and business process improvements.  • Quick learner with good analytical and communication skills coupled with a proactive attitude and good team spirit. Work Experience Sr Java/J2EE Developer Pfizer - New York, NY August 2014 to Present Global credit expansion project is to expand PayPal beyond USA to become world's only global consumer credit offering company. PayPal also aimed at going Agile. GCE also led to unifying the application of PayPal and Bill Me Later (acquisitioned by PayPal) at the enterprise level and modifying existing technology within the application according to the rules and regulations of UK, Germany, France and Canada as per the expansion of PayPal credit business to those countries to comply with regulations.    Description:  ROCA is a customer service application that allows PayPal collection agents to service, manage and collect information on all accounts with past due transactions that a customer may have in their PayPal wallet.    Responsibilities:  • Adapted Agile Methodology from specification, Analysis, Design, System integration, Testing, Deployment and Maintenance.  • Participated in Agile ceremonies right from attending daily scrum meetings, sprint planning, release planning and retrospectives.  • Involved in daily standup meetings to provide regular updates on individual tasks and progress of user stories. Retrospectives involved analyzing sprint for pros and cons.  • Used Rally to track user stories progress.  • Involved in creating design documents which includes user story business definition, system flow  diagram, defining control-M constants and batch process definition  • Developed a Generic Solr Client which talks to both Batch process and web services.  • Involved in developing ROCA UI using Node JS and Angular JS with MVC design pattern at Back end.  • ROCA UI is integrated with Rappstack webservices for account search, phone management and also uses inbuilt functionality of JQuery with Angular JS.  • Used Design Patterns like Singleton, MVC, Intercepting Filter, Business Delegate, Service Locator and DAO.  • Developed ROCA RESTful Services using Rappstack framework which is based on spring and Hibernate framework and consuming services from other application.  • processing high volumes of real-time or archived data, both structured and unstructured.  • Automated Rappstack RESTful services which is based on in house Redwhale framework developed over TestNG.  • Involved in automation of ROCA UI using Nemo (Automation framework based on Selenium) technology.  • Coordination with Release Management team for deploying ROCA builds to QA, LT and PROD environment.  • Involved in resolving change management tickets.  • Applying code coverage for an acceptance level of 85% which includes unit testing and resolving check style, PMD and find bug errors.  • Configuring builds on bamboo server with check style, PMD and find bug enabled to be built on nightly basis.    Environment: Unix, Java, J2EE, Spring 3.2, PLSQL, Hibernate, Spring data JPA, SOAP UI, SOAP and RESTful Web services, JSON, XML, AngularJS, Junit, Test NG, Maven, Control-M, Oracle 11g, Bamboo, Fusion, Jenkins, Subversion, GIT, JIRA, Rally, Confluence, PMD, Find bug. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Lender Processing Services, Inc - Jacksonville, FL March 2013 to July 2014 Lender Processing Services, Inc. (LPS) is a leading provider of mortgage and consumer loan processing services, mortgage settlement services, default solutions and loan performance analytics, as well as solutions for the real estate industry, capital markets investors and government offices.    Description:  LPS Mortgage  The application is an Internet mortgage managing application framework to provide the Internet Banking/mortgage facility for its customers. Using this system retail and corporate customers of LPS do web transactions securely, process customer requests like mortgage request/payment, bulk payments, etc.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirements gathering, analysis, design, development and testing of the complete business solution.  • Used Rational Rose for Use-case diagrams, Activity flow diagrams, Class diagrams and Object diagrams in the design phase.  • Designed UI components using JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and AJAX.  • Extensively used GWT technology to add interactivity to the web pages.  • Designed and developed presentation layer using Spring MVC Framework and Spring Web Flow.  • Used Spring Transactions in the application and developed Session beans for the business logic at the middle tier level.  • Used Spring Framework for Dependency Injection and integrated with Hibernate DAOs.  • Used Hibernate framework in persistence layer for mapping an object-oriented domain model to a relational database (oracle).  • Designed various tables required for the project in Oracle 10g database and involved in coding the SQL Queries, Stored Procedures and Triggers in the application.  • Developed Web Services using SOAP, JAX-WS, Apache CXF, REST and JAX-RS.  • Used Java Message Service (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information, such as loan status report.  • Designed and developed Message driven beans that consumed the messages from the Java message queue.  • Used JAXB parser for parsing the valid xml files as defined by the XSD.  • Used JUnit framework for Unit testing of application.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4J and used JIRA to manage the issues/project work flow.  • Maven is used as a build tool and continuous integration is done using Jenkins.  • Followed Scrum methodology for project development.  • Used IBM RAD as IDE and deployed application on WebSphere Server.    Environment: UML, Java, J2EE, JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, GWT, Spring 3.0, Hibernate 3.0, SQL, Oracle 10g, SOAP, JAX-WS, Apache CXF, REST, JAX-RS, WSDL, JMS, MDB, JAXB, XML, JUnit, Log4J, JIRA, Maven, Jenkins, IBM ClearCase, IBM RAD, WebSphere Application Server. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer PayPal - Baltimore, MD December 2011 to February 2013 Pfizer, Inc. is an American multinational pharmaceutical corporation that develops and produces medicines and vaccines for a wide range of conditions.    Description:  Automated Project Tracker  This project is to automate the process of research projects done in some of the groups in Pfizer called Candidate Enhancement Group, ADME Technology Group etc. This software is used to track all the projects in these groups and various reports are generated.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, design, coding and testing of the project.  • Implemented "Model View Control (MVC)" architecture to isolate each layer of the application to avoid the complexity of integration and customization.  • Used J2EE front-end design patterns in implementing Struts framework.  • Used JSP, AJAX and jQuery to make the frontend components interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Used Struts framework for configuration and implementation of presentation and business layers.  • The Views are programmed using JSP pages with the Struts 1.1 tag libraries, Model is a combination of EJBs and Java classes (Form and Action classes) and Controllers are ActionServlets. The controller uses XML mappings in Struts to map the request to the server side functionality.  • Used EJB as a middleware in designing and developing a three-tier distributed application.  • Persistence layer was developed using Hibernate with JPA.  • Implemented business logic at server side using Session Bean.  • Developed Entity Beans (Program, User) used for encapsulating business logic.  • Developed Web services using Apache Axis2 and generated the WSDL.  • Used Web Services (SOAP) for transmission of large blocks of XML data between two interfaces.  • Used SAX parser and SAX APIs to parse and read XML files.  • Used JMS and Message Driven Beans (MDB) to download XML messages.  • Responsible for generation of jar/war/ear files using Maven tool and deployed in WebLogic Application Server.  • JUnit, JMock Frameworks were used for performing unit and integration testing by writing test cases.  • Used SVN for version control and Eclipse as IDE.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP 1.1, HTML, AJAX, jQuery, JavaScript, Struts1.1, EJB, Hibernate, JPA, SOAP, WSDL, Apache Axis2, XML, SAX, JMS, MDB, Maven, WebLogic, JUnit, JMock, Eclipse, Linux. Java/J2EE Developer Essent Guaranty Inc - Winston-Salem, NC May 2010 to November 2011 Essent Guaranty, Inc. was founded to serve the housing finance industry when the demands of a rapidly changing business climate called for a new kind of mortgage insurance company - one that's backed by private capital, focused on managing risk, and dedicated to serving as a strong and fair counterparty.    Description:  Essent Guaranty currently employs algorithmic solutions to aid its underwriting decisions for multiple lines of business. In Order to improve Essent Guaranty's ability to better underwire insured risks and improve the efficiency of the business insurance underwriting operations.    Responsibilities:  • Participated in system design, planning, estimation and implementation.  • Involved in developing Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams and process flow diagrams for the modules using UML and Rational Rose.  • Developed the presentation layer using JSP, AJAX, HTML, XHTML, CSS and client validations using JavaScript.  • Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural Pattern using Spring Framework.  • Effective usage of J2EE Design Patterns namely Session Facade, Factory Method, Command and Singleton to develop various base framework components in the application.  • Modified Account View functionality to enable display of blocked accounts details that have tags. This involved modifying beans, JSP changes and middle tier enhancements.  • Developed various EJBs (session and entity beans) for handling business logic.  • Developed Session Beans and DAO classes for Accounts and other Modules.  • Extensively used Spring JDBC in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Worked on generating the web services classes by using WSDL, UDDI and SOAP.  • Consumed Web Services using WSDL, SOAP and UDDI from third party for authorizing payments to/from customers.  • Used JAXB API to bind XML Schema to java classes.  • Involved in Units integration using JUnit, bug fixing, and User acceptance testing with test cases.  • Used CVS for version control and Maven as a build tool.  • Used Log4j for logging errors, messages and performance logs.  • Used JBoss Application Server to deploy application.    Environment: UML, Rational Rose, Java, JSP, AJAX, HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, Spring, EJB, Spring JDBC, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, XML, XSLT, JAXB, Oracle, JUnit, CVS, Maven, Log4j, ClearQuest, JBoss, Eclipse, Agile development process, Windows XP. Java Developer MetaMinds Inc - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh July 2008 to April 2010 Metaminds builds flexible, dedicated technology teams that supplement and complement in-house technology staffs of its Partners. It creates an Offshore Center of Excellence to support Partner branding, increase Partner scalability and enhance Partner solutions & service offerings.    Description:  ACE Pricer is a web-based Pricing Management System used to provide dynamic pricing management mechanism. It provides a web-based GUI to manage pricing rules across the company. It provides a mechanism to integrate pricing data from several sources like spreadsheets, ERP, databases and legacy systems into a flexible unified XML based format.    Health Care Information System: Health Care information system is a transaction processing system based on customer Relationship Management system. The application has an ability to track the entire treatment process and automatically generates the relevant reports. It is developed to automate the entire process of treatment tracking and based on treatment status It automatically generates health reports, Appointment notifications, and Billing letters to client and work orders to concerned crewmembers.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in understanding the functional requirements and converting into technical design document  • Implemented the presentation layer based using Servlets, JSP, CSS, HTML and JavaScript.  • Developed JSPs and Servlets to provide a mechanism for obtaining electronic and printed pricelists for list prices, regional prices and customer-specific prices.  • Used Spring Framework to provide architectural flexibility.  • Designed and developed JDBC module to read and write data from Oracle and SQL Server databases and convert to XML format.  • Developed a module to export XML data to CSV files.  • Parsed XML data using Xerces parser to display it on JSPs.  • Designed and developed Session and Entity beans.  • Implemented hierarchical control mechanism to provide different permission levels to different users to modify pricing rules.  • Provided control mechanisms to allow a salesman to view customer accounts associated with his login.  • Implemented hierarchical definition of products, customers and channels.  • Used SVN as version control, ANT as build tool and IBM WebSphere for deployment.  • Involved in unit testing and also developed test cases.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Spring, JDBC, SQL, Oracle, SQL Server, XML, Xerces, SVN, ANT, IBM WebSphere, Sun Solaris. Education Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science and Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages C, C++, Java, PL/SQL, SQL, UML2.0, XML 1.0, XSL 2.0, XSLT.  J2EE Technologies Servlets, JSF, JSP, JSTL, RMI, EJB, JMS, JNDI, JAXP, JAXB, SAX, DOM.  Application Server/Web Server IBM WebSphere Application Server, WebLogic, JBoss, Apache Tomcat.  Web Services SOAP, WSDL, Axis, JAX-WS, REST, JAX-RS  IDEs Eclipse, JDeveloper, IBM RAD, NetBeans, STS.  Framework ICEfaces, Spring, Hibernate, Struts.  Version Control CVS, SVN, IBM ClearCase.  Database Oracle 8i/9i/10g, SQL Server, DB2, MySQL.  Design Patterns MVC, Business Delegate, DAO, DTO, Service Locator, Session Facade, Intercepting Filter, Singleton.  Operating Systems Windows 95/98/NT/2000/Vista/XP/7/8, Linux, UNIX.  Web Technologies XML, XSLT, XSL, XPath, HTML, CSS, XHTML, DHTML, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, GWT.  Other Tools ANT, JUnit, LDAP, Log4j, SLF4j, Toad, Rational Rose, Maven, JIRA, Subversion, ClearQuest