Sr. Salesforce Admin/ Developer Sr. Salesforce Admin/<span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Salesforce Admin/ Developer - MTD Products, Ohio New York, NY Overall 10+ years of IT experience which includes Experience in Salesforce.com CRM Platform both as Administrator and Developer.  Certified Salesforce.com Administrator and Platform Developer-I with proficiency in Salesforce CRM and Force.com platform.  Excellent understanding of Force.com architecture and sound working knowledge on Object oriented programming and core java concepts.  Experience in Administration, Configuration, and Implementation of Salesforce CRM and Salesforce applications.  In depth understanding of CRM business processes like Campaign Management, Lead Management, Opportunity Management, Account Management and Forecasting.  Experienced in customizing and implementing with Objects, Custom Apps, Layouts, Tabs, Validation Rules, Workflows, Approval process, Assignment/Sharing Rules.  Proficient in Configuration, Customization, Programming with Apex API (Controllers & Triggers), Visualforce Pages, Visualforce Components using up-to-date technology & implementing new instances of Sales force  Experienced in CPQ (Configure-Price-Quote) End to End Process.  Implemented Quote-to-Cash solution using APTTUS CPQ. Depth understanding of the APTTUS CPQ, APTTUS CLM data model and functionality.  Experience in performing the administrative related tasks like consigning Roles, creating Profiles, Users, queues, Email Alerts and Page Layouts.  Involved in Automated business process by using Workflow Rules and Approval Process for automated alerts, field updates, and Email generation according to application requirement.  Implemented security and sharing rules at object, field and record level for different users at different levels of organization. Also created various profiles and configured the permissions based on the organizational hierarchy.  Worked with Heroku connect to migrate data and metadata from one organization to another organization.  Good experience in Einstein Analytics and Dataset data management using API and Jitterbit integration.  Experience in handling large sets of data load using Data loader, Bulk API and ETL tool (Jitterbit).  Knowledge in Implementing Marketing Cloud from scratch and successfully integrated Sales Cloud with Marketing Cloud  Proficient in dealing with the functionalities related to the Service cloud, Sales Cloud and Marketing Cloud.  Worked on designing SOAP/REST APIs integration architecture to provide the programming interface to interact with Force.com.  Experience working on SOQL & SOSL queries with consideration to Governor Limits.  Strong working Knowledge in MVC Architecture.  Experience in salesforce lightning features like activities, contextual Hovers, Opportunity  board, Customizable dashboard.  Experienced Knowledge about Salesforce lightning schema builder, process builder, app builder, components, Lightning Aura and lightning connect.  Experience in modifying Visualforce pages to be supported in Lightning Experience and  good understanding of lightning mode and its features.  Strong working experience with Lightning Component Framework using Lightning Component in Visualforce Page and adding Lightning Component to Salesforce 1.  Proficient in configuring and customizing salesforce1 App.  Collaborated with multiple implementation partners, vendors and client resources, contributed to the smooth and successful delivery of many projects simultaneously.  Responsible for creating Reports and Dashboards for Business Users.  Experience in functionality testing, Unit Testing, System Integration Testing, Load testing, and Regression testing  A result-driven, analytical and coherent software developer with excellent skills in programming languages like Java and web technologies like HTML, CSS, XML, JSP and JavaScript.  Good experience in assisting management in terms of project scoping, estimates and project  scheduling.  Good knowledge on Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  Experienced on Agile, Waterfall and Scrum Methodologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Salesforce Admin/ Developer MTD Products, Ohio February 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  Performed detailed analysis of business and technical requirements and created solutions by customizing various standard objects of Salesforce.com (SFDC) and other Platform based technologies like Visual force, Force.com API, and Web Services.  Development and maintenance of Sales, Service, Marketing and Community Cloud  By Using Lightning Components Involved in converting already existing visual force pages into Lightning.  Used Aura Framework to build apps in Lightning platform.  Used the bootstrap multi-select that come with lot of customization to create a simple  lightning component.  Used Lightning Design System to build rich enterprise experiences and custom applications with the patterns and established practices on Salesforce.  Design, develop and implement solutions for the Apttus CPQ system deployed on the Salesforce platform.  Developed Lightning apps using Lightning Components and made them compatible withsalesforce1 mobile app.  Skillfully utilized Lightning Connect to get real-time data from external system by using external objects in Salesforce.  Enabled Aura Framework, by adding Aura Attributes and Aura Handlers for Events to focus on Logic and Interactions in Lightning Applications.  Developed Quote documents using X-Author for word, also developed customized login  screen for community user and functionality to redirect user from Salesforce to Apttus  CPQ Quote creation using APTTUS API's, Apex, Visualforce and trigger.  Implemented Sales cloud and incorporated the enhanced features as required to streamline the business process.  Connected the Data with Heroku Postgres Database.  Administrated and bolster Sales Cloud cases by observing ETL instrument (Jitterbit) which synchronizes and refreshes day by day ERP information from Microsoft Dynamics (AX).  Worked in implementing Salesforce Marketing Cloud (Exact Target) and building  integrations with other systems for seamless data flow.  Implemented Salesforce Service cloud and Opportunity Management (Case management, Entitlement management, Product & price book, High volume customer portal, Partner portal, Visual force sites) for business support and technical support for its channel customers.  Implemented DML activities of Inserting and Updating records.  Worked in implementing Salesforce Marketing Cloud (Exact Target) and building integrations with other systems for seamless data flow.  Implemented a custom Login Flow for Chatter free client utilizing APEX Plug-in interfaces.  Designed and Developed consistent coordination process between Salesforce Order administration to Enterprise ERP framework.  Created custom APEX controllers, Visual power pages and triggers as a major aspect of Complex order management execution.  Used Jitterbit Harmony to synchronize information amongst Salesforce and outside frameworks.  Exposed other outside applications over Salesforce utilizing Canvas applications.  Extensively worked on integration of APTTUS CPQ with REST API.  Designed a computerized answer for process and get a great many outside enrollment  information into Salesforce utilizing a cross breed arrangement utilizing Apex clump  procedures and outer administrations.  Written SOQL, SOSL inquiries in Apex triggers and controllers, utilized Salesforce workbench to produce questions.  Translated existing occasion/advancement-based Sales arrange administration procedure to Salesforce Battle based requesting process.  Created custom application for inner deals group to give speedy access to their Orders.  Chipped away at complex Price books and Price book passage administration process, which empowers business to oversee dynamic evaluating in Orders in view of Dealer levels and Tiers.  Implemented Apex Classes & Triggers and linked them to manage the workflows  implemented in the system.  Used force.com developer toolkit including visual force pages, apex classes, apex controllers and apex triggers to develop custom business logic.  Integrated homegrown lead scoring and evaluating administrations with Salesforce to help qualify the leads. Utilized Jitterbit Harmony to match up information amongst Salesforce and outside frameworks.  Configured outbound messages to advise outside frameworks on Salesforce occasions.  Experienced in deploying from sandbox to production using ANT tool.  Implemented the Salesforce.com applications using Agile Methodology that involves the iterative development methodology.  Environment: Salesforce.com, Visualforce, APPTUS CPQ, CSS, Java Script, CSS, XHTML, DHTML, XML, Web Services, REST API, SOSL, SOQL, ETL, Jitterbit, Lightning Components, APEX controllers, Security controls, Sand Box Loading, Visual power pages and triggers, APEX-Plug in, DML operations, Java script. Salesforce Admin/ Developer Department of Health and Social Services - New York, NY February 2015 to January 2017 Responsibilities:  Worked on both Administration and Development of the project.  Created Triggers in Apex Classes.  Worked with usage accomplices in moving Oracle Right Now bases benefit stage to Salesforce Sales cloud.  Worked on benefit cloud usage utilizing Cases, and actualized Email-to-Case, Escalation and task rules.  Worked on Sales, Service and Marketing Cloud.  Maintained and developed the Custom objects, Custom fields, Custom tabs, and Validation rules and S-Controls HTML & JavaScript.  Created pinnacle REST web benefit classes for outer applications to get to Salesforce  information from different items.  Worked on designing groups to interior representatives, outer clients and created Visualforce pages with association CSS.  Created benefit reassure and empowered for client with jabber and replies in the administration cloud.  Created Case Queues which automatically assign cases to a specific user or group of users based on predefined criteria.  Deployed salesforce parts from sandbox to creation utilizing Force.com Change Set and Eclipse.  Deployed salesforce components using meta-data API across various sandbox and production instances with Change Set.  Implemented administrations to help Service cloud execution, which incorporates Order Status Query, Asset/item query, Claim status query, Up-Sell and Cross-offer related administrations.  Used SOQL & SOSL with in Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using Force.com Explorer.  Built Admin Lightning segment to oversee Call focus clients and track the movement.  Involved in uploading of data through Data Loader.  Involved in creating Approval Processes.  Designed Webpages in the visual force.  Established Securities at Application object and field levels.  Designed different Webpages in Visualforce MVC for catching different client enquiries and made different User interface according to the prerequisites of Customers.  Managed Users, Profiles, Roles, Permission sets, Groups and Queues in the association.  Performed customization of Accounts, Contacts, Opportunities, Cases, Opportunity Products, Quotes, Opportunity Line Items, Price books, Products, Attachments and Custom Objects.  Created Relationships, Formula Fields, Validation Rules, Page Layouts, Search Layouts, Record Types, Custom Buttons, Links, List Views, Dependent picklists.  Built a few reassure lightning segments to help benefit reps rapidly perform query for Request status, assert status, carport part, Ordering structure ERP Integration components.  Involved in Service Console customization, Macros, Knowledge administration, Interaction Channel setup, Case Management, Live Agent design.  Designed and Executed various Tests cases.  Environment: Salesforce.com, Visualforce, Service Cloud, Service Console, MVC, Lightning Components and Controllers, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Handler, CSS, REST, Eclipse IDE, CSS, ERP, Oracle, JAVASCRIPT API. Sr. Salesforce Admin/ Developer CITI BANK - Dallas, TX March 2013 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  Developed various Custom Objects, Tabs, Components and Visualforce Pages and Controllers as a Salesforce consultant.  Salesforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visualforce (Pages, Component & Controllers), Pages, Data Loader, HTML, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Sandbox data loading.  Administered, configured, maintained Salesforce.com application user profiles, roles, assigning Permissions, generating security tokens, validation Rule, upgrade installation.  Created and deployed Several Reports using salesforce.com platform.  Provide training to end users, updated and modified Fields, Objects, Page Layouts.  Developed APEX Classes, Controller Classes and APEX Triggers for various functional  needs in the application.  Analyzed and evaluated complex business requirements and recommended solutions.  Developed and deployed workflows and approval processes for opportunities and products/ assets management.  Involved in Salesforce.com application setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization.  Involved in fallout analysis and fixing the issues.  Worked with Data loader for loading the attachments into salesforce.com, related to objects like Accounts, Contacts, Opportunities, and Activities.  Involved in Data mapping specifications to create and execute detailed system test plans.  The data mapping specifies what data will be extracted from an internal data warehouse, transformed and sent to salesforce.com entity.  Created and used Email templates in HTML and Visualforce.  Integrated the web services by generating the necessary stubs from the WSDL files for extracting the data from the homegrown applications by using the homegrown  webservices.  Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  Interacted with the Salesforce.com premium tech support team on a regular basis.  Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Pages, Data Loader, S-Controls, HTML, Java Script, Apex Triggers, Web Services, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Sandbox data loading, Eclipse IDE Plug-in. Salesforce Admin/ Developer Ford Motors, CA December 2011 to February 2013 Responsibilities:  Worked as both Developer and Administrator roles.  Gathered the requirements needed for the project from the Business analysts.  Used APEX Controllers, Visualforce and Force.com IDE developed and customized User  interface in salesforce.com.  Created User Roles and Profiles, Security controls and Sharing settings.  Worked on standard objects like Accounts, Leads, Contacts, Opportunities, Dashboard's and Campaign's.  Created multiple custom objects, custom fields, relationships between objects, page layouts and record types.  Created Search Layouts to organize fields, custom and related links and other components on record detail page.  Developed and deployed workflow, Reports, Approval processes using salesforces.com  platform.  Developed Apex Classes, Controller and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  Used SOQL and SOSL for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  Used Sandbox for Testing purposes.  Worked on all data migration using the salesforce.com import tool. Migrated data from MS Excel / CSV files to SFDC using Apex Data Loader.  Used SOAP and REST webservices to integrate Apex with external services by callouts.  Worked on both Unit and Integration Testing of the Application During the Testing Stage of the Software Development Cycle.  Implemented Salesforce.com web services client using various web services like API, SOAP.  Created some Salesforce.com communities.  Created many app pages, home pages integrating the custom components for salesforce  lightning.  Involved mass Imports and Exports of data.  Implemented Sales Cloud and Service Cloud.  Worked with QA team and designing and developing test cases.  Worked through various stages of the software development cycle like Analysis, Developing, Testing and Deployment stages.  Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Service Cloud, Sales Cloud, Import Wizard, Data Loader, Data migration Tools, Apex Programming Language, CRM, REST API, SOAP, SOSL, SOQL, Triggers. JAVA/J2EE Developer Station Digital Inc - St. Louis, MO September 2010 to November 2011 Responsibilities:  Participated in analysis, design, and development of the application.  Application is developed using J2EE.  Developed various Use Cases required for the project  Using SQL templates for the reports.  Used multi-threading to make the GUI response in heavy.  Used JavaScript for client-side validations.  Designed front end using HTML, CSS, JSP's, servlets and user validations  Retrieved data from the database using JDBC.  Implemented the required Java Beans used by the JSP components  Interacted with external systems using XML Schemas.  Wrote various Test Cases for the Project Modules.  Performed Unit and Integration Testing on various Project Modules.  Implemented the required Java Beans used by the JSP components.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Struts, CSS, GUI, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, HTML, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux/Unix JAVA/J2EE Developer Almac Clinical Technologies - Souderton, PA June 2007 to August 2010 Responsibilities:  Involved in entire Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the project like Requirement gathering, Conceptual design, Analysis, Detail design, Development, System Testing, and User Acceptance.  Developed the J2EE application based on the Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) by employing Web Services and other tools for data exchanges and updates. Developed the functionalities using Agile Methodology.  Experience in AWS using EC2, AWS S3, AWS VPC and IAM services.  Worked on pop up screens, image sliders, and dropdown menus on web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, and AJAX to make the UI functional.  Used Angular 2 to accomplish the single page application and produce higher maintainability of the code  Created forms to submit data and validated the forms using JavaScript and AngularJS validators and used Karma/Jasmine to unit-test AngularJS controllers and services.  Architected a secure REST API built on MongoDB, ExpressJS, AngularJS and NodeJS.  Gained experience and implemented new features in Java 8 like Java Time API and Java Stream API for bulk data operations on Collections.  Designed and build the backend of the application in Node.js and Used Mocha/Chai framework to unit test Node.js APIs.  Use Node Package Manager (NPM) to manage the modules and used it to install useful tools such as Grunt, Express.  Developed Restful APIs in Node to facilitate the flow of data from backend to frontend.  Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection and used Apache Camel to integrate Spring framework.  Implemented the application using Spring MVC Framework and handled the authentication, authorization, and access-control features by using Spring Security.  Involved in configuring Hibernate mapping files/annotations and POJO objects.  Worked on database export & import with MongoDB to migrate data from the old system.  Manipulated data using CRUD (create, read, update and delete) operations of MongoDB database management system and handled database access and data transmission based on RESTful web service.  Build the Jenkins pipeline to achieve automation for CI/CD.  Created Docker images and ran the Docker containers in various environments.  Deployed the application using WebLogic application server and performed Maven dependencies for the project and used GIT as Version Control System.  Environment: Java 8, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular2, AWS S3, EC2, VPC, IAM, Spring MVC, REST, Eclipse IDE, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, XML, Hibernate, MongoDB, WebSphere, Maven, Jenkins, Docker, GIT.. Education Bachelor's Skills AJAX, CSS, WEB SERVICES, ECLIPSE, JAVA Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Technologies  Apex, Visualforce, SOQL, SOSL, Force.com Eclipse IDE,  Apex Data Loader, Apex Web services, Lightning  Components, Lightning Design System, Web Services  (SOAP, REST), Outlook Connector, Jitterbit and other  ETL Tools, Outbound Messaging, Visual Workflow,  Community Builder, Process Builder, Change sets,  Gearset (build and migration tools).    Tools  Workbench, Eclipse, Force.com Eclipse IDE Plug-in,  Force.com Explorer, Apex Data Loader, Force.com  Platform, Heroku Connect Eclipse IDE with plug-in,  Migration tool, Lightning Component Framework,  Lightning App Builder.    Languages C, C++, JAVA, SQL, ORACLE.  Operating Systems MS Windows, Linux, Unix.  Web Technologies HTML, XML, CSS, JSP, JavaScript and jQuery, XSL, AJAX, SOAP, WSDL, Servlets, JSP (JSTL, EL), JAX-RPC, JAX-P, JSON.