Sr. Salesforce Lightning Developer Sr. Salesforce Lightning <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Salesforce Lightning Developer - State Farm Richardson, TX Work Experience Sr. Salesforce Lightning Developer State Farm - Richardson, TX September 2018 to Present State Farm is a large group of insurance and financial services companies throughout the United States and also State Farm is the largest property and casualty insurance provider in the United States. It is also the largest auto insurance provider in the United States. State Farm are a world class group of utilitarian and specialized specialists cantered at the assembly of Enterprise Performance Management, Data Management, Business Intelligence and CRM.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including analysis, requirement engineering, architecture design, and UI development using java script, HTML, enhancements and testing.  • Designed, developed and deployed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Developed various Visual force Pages, Apex Triggers to include extra functionality and wrote Apex Classes and Controller to provide functionality to the visual pages.  • Created Custom Objects and fields for transactional and contractual information.  • Designed and deployed Custom tabs, validation rules, Approval Processes and Auto-Response Rules for automating business logic.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, email alerts, and field updates.  • Implemented pick lists, dependent pick lists, lookups, master detail relationships, validation and formula fields to the custom objects.  • Creating custom pages and giving access to customer community.  • Experience in working SFDC Service Cloud implementation experience - Service Console, Live Agent and Communities.  • Worked on customizing and development of Communities.  • Implemented customer community and creating users, giving access of custom pages in customer community.  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists and other components on a record detail and edit pages.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, time triggered tasks, email alerts, filed updates to implement business logic.  • Created templates, approval processes, approval page layouts and defined approval actions on them to automate the processes.  • Created various Reports (summary reports, matrix reports, pie charts, dashboards and graphics) and Report Folders to assist managers to better utilize Salesforce as a sales tool and configured various Reports and for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  • Developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Used SOQL & SOSL for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Experience in using Front End UI technologies such as HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, XHTML, JavaScript including popular JS frameworks such JQuery and JQuery UI.  • Developed the UI for the client interactions to fill the required forms using HTML5, CSS, and JQuery.  • Created Angular JS controllers, directives, models for different modules of theapplication.  • Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages with dynamic and browser  • Used field level security along with page layouts to manage access to certain fields.  • Used Force.com developer toolkit including Apex Classes, Apex Triggers and Visualforce pages to develop custom business logic.  • Also pulled policies from CMP DWH (Oracle) for the partners that have been loaded into SFDC using Power center.  • Used Data loader to load the records on to the force.com platform.  • Implemented Salesforce Development Cycle covering Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Call Center, Chatter & App-exchange applications.  • Made new feature enhancements on Service cloud console view and developed some Visual force components.  • Created UI Pages using lightning app builder  • Created reusable UI components with lightning component framework.  • Experience in building reusable UI components with lightning component framework.  • Hands on experience in using the Aura framework and Salesforce lightning Design System (SLDS)  • Worked in developing various lightning components, events and applications  • Performed the role of SFDC developer, lightning developer and interacted with various business user groups for gathering the requirements for salesforce.com, Lightning and CRM implementation.  • Develop portal solution using Lightning Components.  • Involved in Data Migration from Traditional Apps to Salesforce Using Data Loader Utility.  • Performed Data Migration from home grown legacy system to Salesforce CRM.  • Experienced in Unit Testing, for the customizations and developments done during the project.  • Extracted the data from Salesforce.com application into the external databases for generating large data reports using the Informatica on Demand.  • Implemented data migration using Informatica on demand and data loading using Data loader, import wizard.  • Involved in the Data Transformation and Data Cleansing activities while transferring the data to the external system using Informatics on Demand.  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Involved with Salesforce.com Premier Support and handled the support cases with the help Salesforce.com support.    Environment: Salesforce Lightning, Lightning Components, Sales Cloud, Apex, Angular JS, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, WSDL, Custom Tabs, Eclipse/Force.com IDE, lightning App builder, services cloud. Salesforce Lightning Developer Sunday Suppers - Washington, DC February 2016 to August 2018 This project involves designing new applications and migrating some of their existing functionalities from Salesforce Classic interface to lightning for enhanced user experience. Created various Lightning components, Lightning pages and worked on Salesforce1 platform.    Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with business analysts to gather business requirements.  • Worked on designing and developing LightningCommunityBuilder.  • Worked on a custom functionality on account and lead object using several lightning components where one component is loaded from other component  • Implemented ApexExtensions to customize the standard buttons on Lead, Account, Contact and Opportunity objects  • Created new components in Lightning to add functionality to existing Visualforce pages using Lightning Out.  • Developed lightning apps to provide enhanced interactive interfaces to end users that boosted the sales.  • Worked on Salesforce LightningProcessBuilder to easily automate Business Processes.  • Experience in building reusable UI components and pages with Lightning component framework.  • Developed robust LightningPages and components using aura framework and placed them on the community builder.  • Created multiple Lightning Components, added CSS and Design Parameters that makes the Lightning component look and feel better.  • Designed and developed controller classes depending on various functional needs.  • Retrieved some data and its functionality from Third-Party API's and displayed within the lightning component.  • Was solely responsible for writing web services using REST services to get real-time data from an external SQL database to show on internal Visualforce and Lightning pages.  • Worked on Quick actions and lightning Modal as a part of custom functionality  • Worked on SOAP calls to receive XML schema in a custom object and leads are generated based on the schema using a trigger  • Worked on Salesforce1Platform to build Mobile App by enabling Lightning Components for use in Salesforce1 mobile platform to make Lightning Application mobile.  • Used Salesforce1 Simulator during the development to test if the lightning components work properly on the mobile device.  • Used Sforce.one for managing navigation and built custom Visualforce components with JQuery Mobile and AngularJS  • Used Salesforce LightningInspector to debug the lightning components during the development process.    Environment: Sales Cloud, Salesforce.com platform, Lightning, Lightning Process Builder, Lightning Inspector, Apex, Workflow & Approvals, Triggers, Reports, Custom Objects, SOQL, SOSL, Custom Tabs, Security Controls, SOAP Salesforce Developer Westfield Insurance - Westfield Center, OH, US May 2014 to October 2015 Westfield began as Ohio Farmers Insurance Company in 1848, when a group of farmers joined forces to insure their properties. Based in Westfield Center, Ohio, the company employs over 2,400 nationwide including 1,700 in their home office. It is the largest employer in Medina County. Westfield's products are distributed through a network of more than 1,000 independent insurance agents. In addition to Westfield's home office, also located on the company grounds in Westfield Center are the Blair Center Conference Center, Westfield Bank, and a private hotel called Westfield Inn. The company also owns the Westfield Country Club, a 36-hole championship golf course that hosted the Junior PGA Championship until 2007.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on the Veeva Systems applications, Salesforce Platform, and technical design  • Interacted with various business team members to gather the requirements and documented the requirements.  • Working Knowledge of DevOps tool VSTS  • Working the process for release management in the VSTS DevOps too including CI/CD.  • Involved in API/Web Service design and developing technical specifications for the Salesforce.com (SFDC) application.  • Created on Spark Kafka, Performance Tuning, JavaScript Frameworks, Apex Design Patterns, Salesforce security model  • Involved in project technical design plan, conversions, Mapping, configuration of portions of the SFDC application.  • Implemented SFDC CRM to deliver various reports in departments of Sales, Administration and Marketing etc.  • Interface Designing using Visualforce page and their supportive Controller Classes.  • Automate the functionality by writing Triggers and Apex Classes.  • Reengineered APEX code already in production to optimize trigger based transactions for performance and speed as well as to work seamlessly with governor limits.  • Integrated external systems like Record setter data, Dodge MDM, MAS, PeopleSoft into Salesforce.com primarily used the partner and enterprise WSDL'S with J2EE technologies.  • Responsible for Unit testing and performance testing of SFDC API/Web Service.  • Responsible for Agile methodology testing package upgrades in sandbox org and deploying in production org.  • Created public websites and applications that are directly integrated with your Salesforce.com organization using sites.  • Developed a unified view of all accounting data within Salesforce.com.  • Responsible for integrating Salesforce.com to risk manager desktop apps via web services API.  • Used Data Loader for insert, update, and bulk import or export of data from Salesforce Objects. Used it to read, extract, and load data from comma separated values (CSV) files.  • Packaged and Deployed customizations from Sandbox to other environments using Eclipse.    Environment: Salesforce.com, Force.com, Apex, Data Loader, SOQL, SOSL, Communities, CRM, Import Wizard, Eclipse IDE, Controllers, Visualforce Pages, JQuery, XML and Triggers. Salesforce Developer Faro Technologies - Lake Mary, FL, US October 2013 to April 2014 Based in Lake Mary, Florida, FARO Technologies, Inc., designs, develops, manufactures, markets, and supports sophisticated three-dimensional measuring systems. It has more than 6,100 customers worldwide. The devices are used in a wide range of industries, including aerospace, automotive, consumer goods, food, heavy equipment, machine tools, medical systems, metal fabrication, mining, motion pictures and gaming, petrochemical, and pharmaceutical. FARO products can be used for alignment purposes, calibration, inspection, installation, reverse engineering, and other applications. The devices are capable of up to 0.0002 inches accuracy and have a range as far as 76 meters. Products include the FaroArm, an articulated arm married to computer software to make factory floor measurements; the Laser ScanArm, which uses a laser probe to measure products without touching them; the Laser Tracker, which allows quality control personnel and engineers to measure and inspect parts, machine tools, and other objects; the FARO Gauge, another articulate arm device that uses computer software in building machine tools; and FARO Laser Scanner LS, which measures and collects data points to create a precise rendering of an object or area, facilitating inspection and reverse engineering efforts as well as design and architectural work. A public company listed on the NASDAQ, Faro operates sales offices around the world.    Responsibilities:  • Translate requirements from non-technical end users through interviews into documents understandable by users and developers, Process flow diagrams, Functional specifications with use cases and class models, sequence diagrams using tool  • Created on Spark Kafka, Performance Tuning, JavaScript Frameworks, Apex Design Patterns, Salesforce security model  • Architect and design application with class, interaction, state chart diagrams.  • Designed, developed and deployed the Custom objects, Page layouts, Custom tabs, Components, Visual Force Pages, Apex classes & Triggers to suit to the needs of the application.  • Implemented on Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Custom Cloud and Apex Programming On Force.com Platform.  • Involved in data migration and integration using Data Loader.  • Worked in Administration, Configuration, Implementation and Support of sales force CRM and Sales force SFA applications.  • Extensive experience in lead case management (Web-to-Lead, Email-to-Case).  • Implemented with Salesforce.com sandbox and production environments.  • Worked with Visual Force Pages, Custom Controllers, Extension Controllers, Apex Coding, Apex Batches, Apex Web Services, App Exchange deployment, Apex Classes and Apex Triggers.  • Scheduling Apex jobs for processing large records.  • Unit and integration testing for new requirements and get the UAT from the business owner.  • Created Profiles and Roles based on Organizational role hierarchy, implemented Record-Level and Field-level security and configured their sharing settings.  • Created Custom Objects, Tabs, and Sharing Rules as per the business requirements.  • Worked on various Sales force objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads and Opportunities.  • Designed junction objects and implemented various advanced fields like Pick list, Custom Formula Fields, Field Dependencies, Validation Rules, Work Flows, and Approval Processes for automated alerts, field updates, and Email generation leading to effective Web-to-Lead communication with customers and partner portals.  • Implemented Chatter, Chatter desktop, created public and private groups.  • Developed Apex Classes, Apex Triggers, Components, Visual force Pages and Controller classes for various functional needs in the application.  • Created Workflows, Approval processes, Validation rules and sharing rules.  • Extensive experience in Apex/Visual force development.  • Set up Marketing Campaigns, Campaign Hierarchies, Lead Queries, Assignment rules, Web-to-Lead and Auto-Response rules.  • Designed, developed and deployed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application  • Debug Apex scripts using Debug Logs and System Log Console to catch Exceptions and execute Governors and Limits.  • Developed product capabilities using Force.com, APEX, and Visual force.    Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Visual force Pages, Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Email Services, Reports, Dashboards, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Security Controls, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Sales force Sandbox, HTML, Java Script, Windows XP. Salesforce Developer Britannica - Chicago, IL October 2012 to September 2013 The Encyclopedia Britannica, formerly published by Encyclopedia Britannica, Inc., is a general knowledge English-language encyclopedia. It was written by about 100 full-time editors and more than 4,000 contributors. The 2010 version of the 15th edition, which spans 32 volumes and 32,640 pages, was the last printed edition.  The Britannica is the English-language encyclopedia/encyclopedia that was in print for the longest time: it lasted 244 years. It was first published between 1768 and 1771 in the Scottish capital of Edinburgh, as three volumes. The encyclopaedia grew in size: the second edition was 10 volumes, and by its fourth edition (1801-1810) it had expanded to 20 volumes. Its rising stature as a scholarly work helped recruit eminent contributors, and the 9th (1875-1889) and 11th editions (1911) are landmark encyclopaedias for scholarship and literary style. Beginning with the 11th edition and following its acquisition by an American firm, the Britannica shortened and simplified articles to broaden its appeal to the North American market. In 1933, the Britannica became the first encyclopedia to adopt "continuous revision", in which the encyclopaedia is continually reprinted, with every article updated on a schedule. In March 2012, Encyclopedia Britannica, Inc. announced it would no longer publish printed editions, and would focus instead on Encyclopedia Britannica Online.    Responsibilities:  • Developed Custom Tabs and Custom Objects  • Developed a custom object to manage the case escalation management  • Created Formula Fields, Validation Rules, Workflow and approvals for the flexibility and functionality of force platform application  • Responsible for setting Field level security  • Created Reports & Dashboards for sales and marketing  • Migrated legacy system to Salesforce.com, ensuring a flawless migration process  • Responsible for interacting with users providing end user training and obtaining essential feedback to improve system functionality.  • Managed users, Public Groups, Profiles, and Roles within the Salesforce CRM, this involved designating access to the applicable user within the user hierarchy  • Performed day-to-day administrative tasks and addressing production support issues like unlocking / re-setting passwords, modifying data, and creating ad hoc reports  • Created reports of summarized results of analysis and presented to Regional Sales Business Directors, SVP and Finance on a weekly/monthly basis    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, JavaScript, Apex, Email Services Triggers, HTML, Apex Data Loader. Salesforce Developer DonorsChoose - New York, NY November 2011 to September 2012 Currently, the library's traditional World Book Encyclopedia set was published in 2000 (16 years ago). The Student Discovery World Book Encyclopedia set was published in 2009 (7 years ago). The students use the Student Discovery World Book the most because it's written for elementary students reading level. In the 2009 Discovery Edition, Barack Obama is a one term president, Sally Ride is still alive, Michael Phelps' information is outdated, and Gabby Douglas is not included, as well as other post 2009 accomplished people, events, and important information.    Responsibilities:  • Created custom objects, applications and custom report types.  • Designed workflow rules, validation rules and approval processes for various functional and business requirements.  • Created email-to-cases, automated-responses, assignment rules, email alerts and templates for Case Management.  • Collaborated with other developers in performing unit testing and identifying bugs in the application. Migration of the product from the test environment to the production.  • Created web to lead, web to case and Email to case to direct leads and cases from the Internet and email appropriately to the user queues or users.  • Used SalesForce Automation for sale lead management, opportunity management, account & contact Management, approvals and workflows.  • Created Queues, Groups and created assignment rules to assign leads to appropriate queues and users.  • Maintained security such as user accounts, mobile user accounts, sharing rules, user roles, user profiles, field level security, list view rights.  • Created workflows to assign tasks, field updates and outbound messages according to the business requirements.  • Worked on page layouts, list views, custom reports, and record types.  • Created search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on record pages.  • Providing ongoing SalesForce.com maintenance and administration services including periodic data cleansing, custom objects, workflow.  • Imported information from ACT and excel spreadsheets.  • Maintained data cleanliness and accuracy by adding custom validation rules, custom formulas, reports and dashboards.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Force.com API, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Visual Force, SalesForce.com Data Loader, Security Controls, HTML, Java Script, Sandbox, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Github. Java Developer HDFC Bank Ltd November 2010 to September 2011 HDFC Bank Ltd, located India, is a leading Bank providing working capital to small and mid- size businesses nationwide. Support small businesses in need of financing to sustain or grow their enterprise by providing innovative, customized, and flexible working capital solutions. They operate through a consultative approach, listening to customers and providing what best meets their needs in an ever-changing financial market.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in understanding the functional requirements and converting into technical design document  • Implemented the presentation layer based using Servlets, JSP, CSS, HTML and JavaScript.  • Developed JSPs and Servlets to provide a mechanism for obtaining electronic and printed pricelists for list prices, regional prices and customer-specific prices.  • Used Spring Framework to provide architectural flexibility.  • Designed and developed JDBC module to read and write data from Oracle and SQL Server databases and convert to XML format.  • Developed a module to export XML data to CSV files.  • Parsed XML data using Xerces parser to display it on JSPs.  • Designed and developed Session and Entity beans.  • Implemented hierarchical control mechanism to provide different permission levels to different users to modify pricing rules.  • Provided control mechanisms to allow a salesman to view customer accounts associated with his login.  • Implemented hierarchical definition of products, customers and channels.  • Used SVN as version control, ANT as build tool and Oracle WebLogic for deployment.  • Involved in unit testing and developed test cases.    Environment: SalesForce.com, Apex, Visualforce, Force.com IDE, Dashboards, Reports, Workflows, Sandbox, Data Loader, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, XML, AJAX, Eclipse plug-in for Force.com IDE, Demand tool, Java, J2EE, Web services, SQL Developer, SQL, Windows XP. Java Developer Bharti Airtel August 2008 to September 2010 Responsibilities:  • Involved in understanding the functional requirements and converting into technical design document  • Implemented the presentation layer based using Servlets, JSP, CSS, HTML and JavaScript.  • Developed JSPs and Servlets to provide a mechanism for obtaining electronic and printed pricelists for list prices, regional prices and customer-specific prices.  • Used Spring Framework to provide architectural flexibility.  • Designed and developed JDBC module to read and write data from Oracle and SQL Server databases and convert to XML format.  • Developed a module to export XML data to CSV files.  • Parsed XML data using Xerces parser to display it on JSPs.  • Designed and developed Session and Entity beans.  • Implemented hierarchical control mechanism to provide different permission levels to different users to modify pricing rules.  • Provided control mechanisms to allow a salesman to view customer accounts associated with his login.  • Implemented hierarchical definition of products, customers and channels.  • Used SVN as version control, ANT as build tool and Oracle WebLogic for deployment.  • Involved in unit testing and developed test cases.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Spring, JDBC, SQL, Oracle, SQL Server, XML, Xerces, SVN, ANT, IBM WebSphere, Sun Solaris. Education Bachelor's Links http://Salesforce.com