Senior UI/Angular JS Developer Senior UI/Angular JS <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior UI/Angular JS Developer - WESTERN UNION DIGITAL, SFO San Francisco, CA Eclipse IDE, Angular JS, D3.JS, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSP, Sublime Text 2, Backbone.js, JQuery, JavaScript, React JS, JSON, Dreamweaver, Apache Tomcat, Photoshop, GitHub, JAXP 1.2, Restful web-services, Node.js, JDBC, Grunt, JSTL, Mongo DB, Illustrator, Gulp, Bower, karma, JUnit, JIRA,Jasmine, ASP.NET, iOS,Jenkins, Spring framework, JSP,JBOSS Drools, Hibernate 3.3,Rabbit-MQ, HTML4/5, CSS3, moment,LESS. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior UI/Angular JS Developer WESTERN UNION DIGITAL, SFO January 2016 to Present Responsibilities  * Analyzed business requirements, participated in technical design, development and testing of various modules assigned.  * Designed business applications using web technologies like HTML4/5, XHTML, and CSS2/3 based on the W3C standards.  * Used Unix Commands for manipulating the data indeployment phase.  * Actively used DHTML, JavaScript, J queryandAJAX, CSSfor frontend development. On the backend it was Java (JSP) and Oracle.  * Involved in building flexible UI, more user interactive and user-friendly web pages, reusable classes, functions using ASP.NET, C#, AJAX and JavaScript for client side validation.  * Developing application design guidance and consultation, utilizing a thorough understanding of applicable technology, tools and existing designs.  * Created AngularJS Controller which Isolate scopes perform operations in UI.  * Used D3.JS for data visualization in this application.  * Accessed functions in web server using Restful web-services.  * Written Ajax driven JSON consuming JavaScript functions to save User selections such as radio button, drop-down menuselections into a cookie.  * Used Node JS for heavy DOM manipulation.  * Worked with a team which includes Tech Leads, Business Analysts, System Analystsand Testers using Agile (Scrum) methodologies.  * Used Hibernate mappings, relationships between tables and entity classes to access and update information in the database.  * Responsible for UI designing for iOS and solved issues when encountered in iOS application.  * Used Swift for developing the application in iOS.  * Using AngularJS, I created custom directives for data manipulations and to display data in company standard format in UI.  * Implemented Model View Controller(MVC) architecture using Struts framework.  * Maintained Cross Browser compatibility and implement Responsive Design using Twitter Bootstrap, custom media queries, etc.  * Involved in development of rich user interface components using JSON, Ajax, JavaScript, JQuery and HTML5.  * Used JavaScript for adding little functionality to the existing application (calendar, tooltips, hiding elements, etc.  * Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries, requireJS, Java Script andNode.js.  * Used JDBC for Manipulating data in the database.  * Used APIs design pattern for data access through service calls and also used spring framework in the application.  * Developed CSS3 style sheets to give gradient effects. Developed page layouts, navigation and icons. Applied industry best practices and standards when project requirements were lagging.  * Used Unix Commands for system logging like Syslog facilities and syslog priorities.  * Implemented various Core Java concepts such as Exception Handling, Collections API, Generics, and Enhancedfor Loop Inheritance and Polymorphism.  * Used Web services - WSDL and Restfulto access the data stored in regional databases  * Used Eclipse 3.0 as IDE, Maven as the build tool and Clear Case for the version control.  * Worked on SQL queries with Oracle SQL developer to select/insert/update/joins etc. for test/development purpose in local environment.  * Deployed Application on WebSphere Application Server v7.0. Illustrator, Gulp, Bower Eclipse IDE - Cincinnati, OH April 2014 to December 2015 D3.JS, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSP, Sublime Text 2, Backbone.js, JQuery, JavaScript, React JS, JSON, Dreamweaver, Apache Tomcat, Photoshop, GitHub, JAXP 1.2, Restful web-services, Node.js, JDBC, Grunt, JSTL, Mongo DB, Illustrator, Gulp, Bower, karma, JUnit, JIRA, Jasmine, ASP.NET, iOS, Jenkins, Spring framework, JSP, JBOSS Drools, Hibernate 3.3, Rabbit-MQ, HTML4/5, CSS3, moment, LESS.  HPE, Cincinnati, OH Apr2014 -Dec2015  Senior UIDeveloper    Responsibilities  * Gathered and analyzed the requirements and converted them into User Requirement Specifications and Functional Requirement Specifications for the designers and developers to understand them as per their perspective.  * Used agile methodology for the software development.  * Analyzed business requirements, participated in technical design, development and testing of various modules assigned.  * Communicated with the Leads and BA's for better understanding of the design requirements.  * Designed and Developed the UI screensusing JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery, JSP, requireJS, Html and CSS.  * Utilized data of web server using Restful web-services.  * Manipulation was done with Node JS.  * Extensively worked on ADO.NET Entity Framework for developing core data layers for the distributed applications.  * Created graphics including Icons, Images and Logos using Adobe Flash Catalyst.  * Implemented Java and J2EE design patterns such as Factory Method, Singleton.  * Developed the presentation layer using JSP, HTML, XML, XSLT, CSS, AJAX, Custom Tags, Struts-Html tag library, and Apache Tiles. Designed and development of web pages using PHP, HTML, and CSS including AJAX controls and XML.  * Used Spring Hibernate template to access relational DBMS, Mongo DB via Hibernate.  * Created design mock-ups and wireframes using MS PowerPoint, Adobe Photoshop CS4 and Dreamweaver CS3.  * Developed responsive applications using Bootstrap.js, Require.js and Node.js, D3.js which allowed the same application to be optimized for both mobile and desktop resolutions.  * Used JavaScript for adding little functionality to the existing application (calendar, tooltips, hiding elements, etc.).  * Architect and deploy Symantec public/private cloud platforms (IaaS, PaaS & SaaS) across Amazon Web Services , HP Cloud Services and DataPipe.  * Created appropriate concept models, site organization, navigation, page layouts and interaction to Support Company's need and goals.  * Developed HTML prototype documents with CSS Style sheets.  * Tracked issues using JIRA using confluence.  * Deployed the application on WebSphere server.  * Worked on AJAX controls like Update Panel to manage the post back of the web page to server, AJAX Script Manager and Script Manager Proxy controls to register JavaScript and web service files.  * Responsible for compiling and submitting an error report for management each week.  * Involved in Unit & Integration Testing for different Modules in the application.  * Application support on different environments from QA to Production. Was responsible for analyzing the issues, providing technical & functional support to the users and fix them.  Environment:HTML4/5, CSS3, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSP, Sublime Text 2, Angular JS, Backbone.js, JQuery, JavaScriptReact JS, JSON, Require JS, Dreamweaver, Photoshop, GitHub, Spring 3.0, JAXP 1.2, Mongo DB, Restful web-services, Node.js, Spring framework, Hibernate, MySQL , JDBC, Amazon Web Services , Grunt, Jenkins, JSTL, JavaScript, Illustrator, Gulp, Bower, karma, iOS, JUnit, JIRA. UI/ Java Developer DISNEY - Orlando, FL December 2012 to April 2014 Responsibilities:  * Developed Interactive GUI Screens using HTML, JSPs.  * Implemented Struts framework for integrating presentation, web and business components.  * Written SQL queries to extract data from input files validate and load data into database (Oracle/SQL Server), developed various reports and core tables lookups utilizing Business Objects.  * Worked on JavaScript framework (Backbone, Node.js) to augment browser based applications with MVC capability.  * Written functions and procedures using PL/SQL.  * Used SCADA in this application for database control.  * Designed, developed and implemented database modules to verify user details.  * Developed various modules for database verification and validation, identified and analyzed data discrepancies and data quality issues, worked to ensure data consistency and integrity.  * Worked with cross functional teams, including associated Data, UI and Mid-Tier teams.  * Written session beans as Service components to perform the business process.  * Responsible for implementing configurable error logging frame work.  * Database performance analysis and improvements.  * Client-side validations are performed using JavaScript.  * Experience developing web UIs with AJAX, jQuery and jQuery UI frameworks etc.  * Wrote ANT scripts to build jar, war and ear files.  * Used Log4J to code throughout the application.  * Used Web Services by exposing and consuming WSDL files.  Environment: JEE, Struts2, JSP, Eclipse, Hibernate, JQuery, Node.js, Backbone, UML, JavaScript, HTML, CSS2/3, ANT, Log4j, Web Services, and Apache Tomcat Server. UI / Java Developer Eli Lilly - Indianapolis, IN January 2012 to December 2012 Responsibilities  * Application support on different environments from QA to Production and was responsible for analyzing the issues, providing technical & functional support to the users and fix them.  * Worked on all phases of application development to implement the assigned use cases successfully.  * Developed JSP's and HTML, CSS and a part of presentation layer using JavaScript and NodeJS.  * Involved in design and development of framework using Spring MVC and Hibernate.  * Interacted with business users on daily basis for gathering of new Requirements.  * Involved in Test Driven Development with Unit and Integration Testing of the Application.  * Incorporated MVC architecture using spring framework.  * Used POJOs for persistence framework. Configured Hibernate mapping files for Object Relational mapping and created Hibernate configuration file.  * Incorporated ORM mapping and Dependency Injection in a Spring Framework & Hibernate.  * Performed regression testing, wrote unit test cases using Junit.  * Implemented Ajax to create highly optimized, browser-compliant JavaScript and HTML.  * Implemented the Persistence Layer and Data Access Service Layer using Hibernate and HQL queries.  * Used Concurrent Versioning System (CVS) as version control system, to keep track of all the work & all changes, allowing several developers to collaborate.  * Used Agile Methodology for development process.  * JavaScript used for the Client side validation.  * AJAX used for the Asynchronous data populating on pages.  * Developed logging & debugging modules which writes to the application log file.  * Used Maven for the build and deployment process and overall project management.  * Documented the application for the new features and functionalities.  Environment: Java1.6, Spring Core, Spring Web MVC, Hibernate 3.1, JSP, Servlets, UNIX, Oracle 11g, WebLogic 10.3, Eclipse, AJAX, XML, Restful Web Services, SQL, Maven, HTML, CSS, Java Script, NodeJS, Windows7, SQL Developer, CVS. Java/J2EE Developer TIAA-CREF - Charlotte, NC March 2010 to November 2011 Responsibilities  * Involved in the development of JSP.  * Involved in developing the JUNIT test cases.  * Developing and maintenance of Software applications using SPRING, HIBERNATE, JAVA/J2EE.  * Involved in the development of Action Classes and Action Forms using struts.  * Extensive use of spring (IOC, MVC), Struts.  * Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries and Struts Tag libraries.  * Used Apache Struts Framework.  * Developing customized Light weight persistent classes and ORM Software (HIBERNATE) Utilized MySQL 2008 database with WebSphere server.  * Used spring framework in this application.  * Worked closely with development teams during Technical Design, Development, Testing, Deployment and maintenance stages of the project.  Environment: Spring, Struts, Hibernate, JSP, Web Services, IBM Web Sphere, MySQL. Software Developer CGI - IN February 2008 to February 2010 Responsibilities:  • Design development of presentation layers using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Used JavaScript and JQuery for validating the input given to the user interface.  • Developed Mock-up designs as per the requirements of Business.  • Developed the complete HTML, CSS and JavaScript of the pages with emphasis on performance, accessibility (AA) and SEO standards.  • Implemented Performance Tuning to make the pages load fast and in an effective way.  • Implemented AJAX to speed up web application.  • Used JQuery extensively for event handling, DOM manipulation and cross-browser compatibility.  • Performed extensive unit testing (end-to-end) and prepared detailed test scripts as part of it.    Environment: JavaScript, CSS, HTML, JQuery, XML, JSP, MVC, Windows. Education Bachelors in Electronics and Communications Engineering JNTU 2007 Skills JSP (9 years), AJAX (7 years), JAVASCRIPT (7 years), JAVA (7 years), WEB SERVICES (7 years), Eclipse IDE, Angular JS, D3.JS, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSP, Sublime Text 2, Backbone.js, JQuery, JavaScript, React JS, JSON, Dreamweaver, Apache Tomcat, Photoshop, GitHub, JAXP 1.2, Restful web-services, Node.js, JDBC, Grunt, JSTL, Mongo DB, Illustrator, Gulp, Bower, karma, JUnit, JIRA,Jasmine, ASP.NET, iOS,Jenkins, Spring framework, JSP,JBOSS Drools, Hibernate 3.3,Rabbit-MQ, HTML4/5, CSS3, moment,LESS., Front End, UI, React, Front-End, Angular, Eclipse IDE, Angular JS, D3.JS, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSP, Sublime Text 2, Backbone.js, JQuery, JavaScript, React JS, JSON, Dreamweaver, Apache Tomcat, Photoshop, GitHub, JAXP 1.2, Restful web-services, Node.js, JDBC, Grunt, JSTL, Mongo DB, Illustrator, Gulp, Bower, karma, JUnit, JIRA,Jasmine, ASP.NET, iOS,Jenkins, Spring framework, JSP,JBOSS Drools, Hibernate 3.3,Rabbit-MQ, HTML4/5, CSS3, moment,LESS. (7 years), PHP, ASP, MySQL, Git, Android Additional Information • Over 8+ years of experience in developing User Interface (UI) applications using cutting edge front end technologies.  • Hands on experience in web development with a strong background working on open source technologies, including HTML/HTML5, DHTML, XML, XHTML, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, Backbone JS, jQuery, Flash and AngularJS.  • Experience on various Charting/UI tools like High Charts, Google API, JQuery UI and Bootstrap.  • Hands on experience in breaking up layered PSD into HTML using CSS.  • Expertise in Client Side designing and validations using HTML, HTML5 and Java Script.  • Strong exposure to Adobe tools - Photoshop, Dreamweaver, Illustrator and Flash.  • Good Understanding of Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM Functions compatibility and SEO / web standards.  • Excellent working knowledge and thorough exposure on compatibility issues with different versions of browsers like IE, Mozilla FF, and Chrome.  • Hands on experience using Firebug for Mozilla, Developer Toolbar for Chrome and IE Developer Toolbar for Internet Explorer.  • Experience in visualization, creating visual designs, Product Logos, developing high quality of work, maintaining team, and design reviews, handling whole project through its life cycle.  • Experience in system analysis, design, workflow architecture, development, testing and maintenance of web based applications.  • Experience on Oracle (9i, 10g), IBM DB2, MySQL, MongoDB, PostgreSQL and usage of tools like Toad for Oracle.  • Worked extensively in Agile& Waterfall Development process.  • Worked on all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including requirements gathering through client interaction, Design, Documentation, Development, Integration, Testing, Configuration and Production Support.  • Good understanding of Model View Controller (MVC) Pattern.  • Good work experience on RDBMS like Oracle and MySQL. Creating SQL statements & Subqueries.  • Worked on Spring/Hibernate and similar frameworks.  • Developed Ext-JS components like Grids, Toolbars, Panels, Combo-Box and Button etc.  • Excellent skills in building elegant professional websites while adhering to W3C standards.  • Experienced in using various tools such as Notepad++ and IDEs such as NetBeans, Visual Studio, Eclipse, etc., for development and design.  • Excellent understanding of Software Quality, Configuration Management and Software Release Practices.  • Extensive Experience in working with Relational Database Management Systems including Oracle, MySQL and SQL Server.  • Expertise in developing and implementing SOAP/RESTful web services.  • Extensive experience in developing Web Services using SOAP, XML-RPC, JAX-RPC, JAXB and Restful, WSDL.  • Comprehensive experience in designing and developing applications using UML with Rational Rose.  • Exposure to Application Servers like Web Logic, IBM Web Sphere, JBoss and Apache Tomcat Web Server.  • Experience in Version Control tools like CVS, GIT, SVN and Clear-Case for Source Code version management.  • Experience in quality assurance and unit testing, acceptance and integration testing.  • Involved in designing the user experience interface UI/UX strategy, UI requirements, converting findings into UI designs.  • Ability to write clear, well-documented, well-commented and efficient code for web development.  • Strong problem-solving, organizing, communication and planning skills, with ability to work in team environment.    Technical Expertise  Programming Languages Core Java/J2EE, JavaScript,ASP.net, C, C++, C#, VB, Python,SQL, PL/SQL.  Frameworks Struts, Angular JS, React JS,JqueryRedux, Spring, JSF, Hibernate, Node JS, requireJS, Backbone,ASP.NET,PHP, Apache CXF  Development Tools and IDE  IntelliJ,Eclipse IDE, Rational Rose, TOAD, Clear Case, Web-storm, Gulp, Developer Tools,Spring Tool Suite,JBOSS, sublime, Amazon AWS tool set.    Databases Oracle 9i, Oracle 10g, SQL Server, MySQL, MongoDb and DB2.    Operating Systems Windows XP, Mac, iOS,Windows NT/2000, UNIX, Solaris 8.0, Linux.  Web Technologies  JavaScript, Ajax, XML, XHTML,CSS3, JSP 2.0/2.1, JSTL, Spring 3.2, Log4j, HTML5, DHTML, XSLT,AJAX, GWT,JQuery, JSON, RIA framework, Amazon Web Services, Restful web service, SOAP.    J2EE Design Patterns  Front Controller, Composite View, Business Delegate, Session Façade, DAO, Command Pattern, Singleton pattern, Service Locator.    Debugging Tools Bugzilla,Firebug, J Unit v 4.12,Yeoman, Grunt.  Application/Web Servers  Apache Tomcat 5.x/6.x,Web sphere Application Server8.0, IBM WebSphere 7.x/6.x,JBoss 5.0, WebLogic 8.1/9.2, Restful Services, JAX-RS, Apache Tomcat 5.0