Lead JAVA Developer Lead <span class="hl">JAVA</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Lead JAVA Developer - Panacea IT Atlanta, GA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead JAVA Developer Panacea IT - Atlanta, GA June 2018 to Present Panacea IT is a leader in high-value global business services. It partners with its clients to deliver end-to-end customer engagement services, technology innovations, analytics, process optimization, and business improvements. The global business services firm transforms the customer experience, and streamlines front and back office and industry-specific processes to provide the highest value from every customer interaction. This application enables clients to access, review and update Insurance coverage like property, life and auto Insurance online.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Full life-cycle software development and interactive front-end applications using MVC paradigm, Object-Oriented analysis, distributed system design and development using N-tier architectures and involved in all phases of the Software development life cycle (SDLC).  • Designed and implemented the reporting front end and backend code for the n-tier Cross Channel Web Analysis application. Used J2EE, Java, JSP, Scrum, Struts, and Ajax, JSON, PL/SQL, XML, Hibernate, spring, JavaScript, Pentaho Java-based reporting engines, Command pattern, Apache and Tomcat technologies.  • Worked as E2E OSS/BSS solution architect for Voice, Video and Data service provisioning.  • Implemented MVC architecture using Struts 2.0 and EJB 3.0 for middle-tier functionality and backend database connectivity.  • Designed, developed and tested the Store management application using HTML, JavaScript, PHP and Postgre SQL  • Deplopment of IIS, MSSQL MySQL, MariaDB, and PostgreSQL servers.  • Developed Web Services (WSDL, SOAP) from scratch using top-down approach using Apache CXF framework and responsible to build secure communication using HTTPS and AD/LDAP Authentication.  • Developed Web Services to communicate to other modules using XML based SOAP and WSDL protocols.  • Created XML Schema, XML template and XSL. Developed Web Services Application using SOAP.  • Design & creation of multiple sites using: WordPress, HTML, PHP, XML, CSS, Javascript & more.  • Used JBoss community tools and worked with work flow engines like BPMN, jBPM.  • Implemented the task dashboard of different jBPM work flows, and browsing capability using Apache Solr with JBOSS.  • Responsible for creating E2E architecture using Salesforce, Oracle TOA, Oracle MetaSolv, Oracle ASAP, billing, data migration.  • Used Java in conjunction with Vert.x and Spring to produce a fully asynchronous resource pipeline for conditioning texture and polygon data to be used in game runtime and rendering environments.  • Utilized AngularJS to construct routes, controllers and factories/services which connects to a Java Vert.x RESTful API.  • Web Sphere Application Server base and Network Deployment (WASND) environments.  • Installed, Configured, Administrated Jenkins Continuous Integration Tool.  • Automated Continuous Build and Deployed Scripts for Jenkins Continuous Integration tool.  • Experience with Agile methology and waterfall model.  • Build business critical functionality along with billing, data migration and field technician.  • Owner of design & business requirement with user demo  • Worked on JavaScript frame work for building web pages (Angular JS, Backbone, Bootstrap, Node.JS, and React.JS) to augment browser based applications with MVC capability and developed, worked and implemented UI controls with ExtJS and Sencha JS framework.  • Developed APIs for application interfaces to utilise functionalities of I2C, SPI and UART slaves with I2C Slaves: RTC, I/O expander.  • Maintain source code using RTC repository.  • Coded the middle tier process using EJB 3.0, JMS, Java mail and Hibernate  • Used transaction Management using EJB 3.0 and custom framework  • Developed consumer based features, applications and interactive user interface using Ajax, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML, CSS,GWT, Ruby on Rails, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Design and implementation of desktop, mobile and web applications in Java and HTML5/Javascript using Eclipse, NetBeans, and Xcode IDE's; Swing, GWT, Vaadin, JPA, Hibernate, PhoneGap frameworks; and SVN, git, maven source code environments.  • Create a new .NET console application to extract, transform and load (ETL) JSON file data into legacy and new SQL Server tables.  • Configured batch jobs for data transfer from MySQL Production, backups to Disk or Netbackup, and refreshing QA database with production data.  • Remotely developed and implemented OneWorld procurement system modifications for Software Action Requests reported to JD Edwards. Tested applications to recreate errors, and implemented code changes for named event rules and master business functions.  • Used Web Services to communicate with external systems like Middleware, Siebel using WSDL, XML, SOAP.  • Good experience in developing applications using J2SE, JDBC, Servlet, JSP, Velocity, Java Script, Exts-JS, Dom, JSon, Hibernate, JPA, Struts, Spring, EJB 3.0.  • Implemented and created dynamic Web Projects using Maven Script, JQuery library and Angular, Web logic Application Server, Jenkins and cross browser functionality to create JAR, WAR, EAR.  • Built components using Java Messaging Service, JBoss 5.2., EJB 3 session and entity beans which developed to support application and client interfaces.  • Developed UML Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Integrated Spring with Hibernate and made as Spring bean using Hibernate Template and used Apache CXF for developing SOAP & REST web services  • Implemented Hibernate Second level of caching to get fast responses, SOAP based web service using Spring CXF and jms configuring object, message driven beans, message selectors to consume messages from JMS Queue, using Http client, Jackson libraries to consume Rest based services and to handle JSON based responses.  • Integrated third party applications such as Zendesk, Smartsheets, Amazon web service with Okta to users can login to these applications using AD credentials and SSO.  • Developed a personal cross-platform task management app in the Ionic framework using a Mongo database, Node.js server, and Angular JS.  • Used Node.js to run Grunt tasks and build properly the project (compile, minify, concat etc.)  • Created proof-of-concept using responsive web design, Node.js, React JS, modernizer js, HTML5 and CSS3.  • Developed Entity Java Beans (EJB 3.0) classes to implement various business functionalities (session beans).  • Used JSP and JSTL Tag Libraries for developing User Interface components. Used SVN for version control and used Eclipse as the IDE for implementing the application and implemented session beans using EJB  • Designed environment for user-acceptance testing and facilitating Integration and User Acceptance Testing with JUNIT and dynamic stress reporting Sybase, Perl and C++  • Design and develop solutions using C, C++, Multi-Threaded, Shell Scripting. Peer reviews of the Design and Source Code (C, C++, and Shell Scripts).  • Worked on agile environment uses incremental approach and also have daily standup meetings.  • Dynamically generated PDF file to browser by using iText and enhanced to create new Jasper Reports according to the requirements.  • Experience in deploying open source Saas suite into Redhat Openshift  cloud environment.  • Created interfaces for custom software applications using Perl/CGI, Javascript, Handlebars.js, HTML and CSS in a Linux environment. Use of Perforce for versioning. Experience with EAR (Export Administration Regulations) documents.  • Developed of web based applications and TCP/IP socket applications in UNIX, using PHP , C, Perl, JavaScript, Oracle, MS SQL, t-sql, Pl/SQL, open SSL.    Tech Skills: Java, J2EE, Spring ,Hibernate, Struts, JQuery, JXML, JD Edwards, EJB 3.0, AJAX, Sencha , ExtJS, JavaScript, Node.js, Angular.js, bootstrap.js, Postgre SQL, WSDL, XML, JBOSS, backbone.js, Vert.x 3.0.0, Oracle , CRUD, PL/ SQL, JDBC coherence , MongoDB , XSD, Netbeans, APACHE CXF, REST, WSDL, JDBC, Eclipse, Web logic, Subversion (SVN),Junit, JSON, SOAP, JNDI, JMS, EJB, ETL, Perl, Agile, UML, JSP, JSTL, Servlet, Maven, ITEXT ,GWT (Google Web Toolkit), Jasper report ,ILOG Web 2.0, SOA, RedHat Linux Perl Unix Shell scripting. Lead JAVA Developer AT&T Services - Atlanta, GA December 2015 to May 2018 Roles and Responsibilities:  • Responsible for architecture, design and development of a secure, scalable, high volume transaction J2EE based application. Unified Process Methodology is adopted in the project. Rational Rose is used to generate and maintain UML diagrams and documentation in OOA/OOD.  • Developed application using AngularJS, NodeJS, JQuery, HTML, CSS and AJAX, Struts technologies, which communicated with java, SPA (Single Page Web Application) using Restful web services plus AJAX and Angular, UI panels using JSF, XHTML, CSS, DOJO and JQuery. Used JSP layout for View of MVC.  • Installed Configured and Administered WASND 8.x/7.0/6.x on Linux and Windows environment.  • Developed a Web Application using Java with the Google Web Toolkit API with PostgreSql  • Data modeling using Database development skills in Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL.  • Designed and developed the input/output data formats in XSD for the WSDL files and accordingly implementing services using Apache CXF based WS implementations for consuming TSYS Services. Developed DAO implementations for the database access using simple Spring JDBC Template.  • Developed Web Services to communicate to other modules using XML based SOAP and WSDL protocols.  • Used RTC (Rational Team Concert) as version control tool for checking in the code and also to track work items and Change requests.  • Utilised Node.js, Socket.io, Redis, Supervisor, Grunt, Yeoman, and Angular for scalable website architecture and realtime technology.  • Implemented MVC architecture using Struts 2.0 and EJB 3.0 for middle-tier functionality and backend database connectivity.  • Designed EJB 3.0 back-end infrastructure that collects and distributes each ordering system information  • Oracle Applications Techno-functional Analyst in OM, INV, AR, GL, BOM, QP, AP, PO, AP, WIP, WSH, WMS, EAM, HR, EGC, RLM, and OTL modules, with subject matter expertise in EDI and RLM.  • Configured Single sign on (SSO) between applications that are integrated and deployed to policy server including different domains as well using Cookie Provider.  • Installed and configured web agents on IIS and Apache web servers and troubleshooting issues associated with these configurations.  • Utilized JavaScript task runner and automated CSS with Grunt, Node. js, Bower and various JavaScript libraries.  • Design and develop solutions using C, C++, Multi-Threaded, Korn Shell Scripting.  • Developed UNIX shell scripts to automate tasks in WebLogic Administration (recycling the application server, deploying customer applications, logs rotation, monitor applications state, etc, )  • Utilized JD Edwards E1 toolset create programs, applications, tables, and other related objects based on client needs. Performed program retrofits to integrate client customizations into new releases of Enterprise One. Created custom reports and forms using BI Publisher. Provided clients with customized technical training and assistance with troubleshooting.  • Implemented MySQL Enterprise Monitor, MySQL Replication Monitor and MySQL Query Analyser for improving query performance and capacity planning in mysql OLAP databases. Developed stored procedures, triggers in MySQL for lowering traffic between servers & clients.  • Led upgrade, design and implementation of key improvements to existing provisioning solution using Oracle COM over web logic 11g platform. Key designs included order fallout management, asynchronous provisioning, event milestones which includes; Web Services, SOAP, Web logic, XML, XSLT.  • OSS provisioning and network activation for Cox wireless, worked with Sprint MVNO partner and network vendor for activation, team lead for OSM SOM, UIM, ASAP. Design lead of OSM Upgrade from 6.3.1 to 7.0.2. Prepare HLD and low level design for development.  • Software installation like Oracle 10g, Weblogic 9.0, ASAP 5.2 on Solaris 10.0 on development environment. Table schema creation for Oracle, ASAP, Configuration of ASAP., Service Studio (2.6), Oracle MetaSolv ASAP4.7.1, XML, Core Java, Solaris 9.0, Weblogic 9.0.  • Performance tuning and zero downtime deployment in version 9.1  • Deployed WAR, JAR, EAR applications in Weblogic Environment  • Performance Tuning at JVM, operating system and weblogic server level  • Configure and administered of JDBC, JMS, JNDI, SNMP in Weblogic Server  • Configured Clustering EJB objects, JDBC connections and JMS connection factories.  • Configured and maintained CA SiteMinder Policy Server version 6  • Installation, configuration and maintenance of Weblogic Portal  • WLST, weblogic.Admin, weblogic.Deployer, ANT  • Experienced in project management, brand management and full stack development  • Advanced knowledge using Git, SVN and New Relic.  • Architecture the ecommerce system and communication between different platforms using spring web services, Hibernate-JPA, SOAP, OFBiz (Open for Business) ecommerce framework. Worked with Demand ware ecommerce applications with regards to catalog, shopping cart, merchandising, payment handling, and content management.  • Developed front-end development and web application using HTML, CSS, JSP, bootstrap and JavaScript, JSF Framework that uses Model View Controller (MVC) architecture with JSP, new and existing pages, applied new styles on the pages with the help of Dojo and JavaScript.  • Develop front-end forms using Oracle ADF to work with Oracle SOA. Used MVC architecture of backbone.js to convert nested jQuery calls into a backbone model based architecture  • Used Eclipse as IDE and SVN for version control, Apache CXF as the web services framework to implement the REST API's and implemented Spring JDBC Templates for database calls. Used Possess application Server experience with Bea Web logic, Java Web Server and Web Sphere Application Server.  • Developed web sphere using Ilog Jrules, websites, Word Press theme design and development using Web 2.0 properties, ecommerce solutions, search engine optimization, graphic design.  • Developed the web applications in Java and HTML/ Java script using Eclipse, Swing, GWT, JPA frameworks; and GIT maven source code environments, application using Struts Framework: developed action classes, form beans and Java Server Pages, Struts-Tiles using WSAD.  • Development of the JAXRPC style Web Services based on the request parameters from XSD file.  • Experience in using development tools like Eclipse, Net Beans, JDeveloper, sql developer, Toad, soapUI.  • Implemented JAVA Web Services based on SOA architecture with SOAP and WSDL And Excellent Java development skills using CORE JAVA, J2EE, JDBC, JSF, XML AND XHTML.  • Architected communication between different programming platforms using SOAP, XML-RPC and web services.  • Designed the UML diagrams based on the OOAD principles and Agile/Scrum development methodology and test cases and performed unit test using JUnit Framework.  • Administered Linux (Redhat, Suse, CentOS), including kickstart server builds, nfs, shell scripting, performance tuning, patch management and firmware updates  • Used Perl, Php and MySql to develop several personal web sites, SEO (search engine optimization) skills.  • Coded and documented to develop and document the applications applying my expertise in programming techniques, ETL based technologies, UNIX and windows platforms, Oracle and Teradata databases.    Tech Skills: Java, J2EE, Spring ,Hibernate ,Struts , JXML, JD Edwards, JSF,DOJO , EJB 3.0, Sencha, ExtJS, JavaScript, CSS , AJAX, Html, Node.js, Angular.js, bootstrap.js, Postgre SQL, WSDL, XML, JBOSS, backbone.js, DB2 , CRUD , PL/ SQL , JDBC , coherence, MongoDB, APACHE CXF, SOAP, REST, ETL, Web Services Eclipse, Web sphere Portal , Web Sphere Studio Application Developer (WSAD)],Git, Git Hub ,Junit , XSD, Net beans, WSDL, JDBC, Scrum , JSON, UML , JSP , JSTL, Servlet , Maven, Xml, ITEXT ,Oracle, GWT , JIRA ,Jasper report ,ILOG , JRules ,Web 2.0 , SOA ,JMS ,Apache Tomcat , Linux ,PHP, Red Hat Linux Perl Unix Shell scripting. Senior Software Developer IBM - Houston, TX October 2014 to November 2015 International Business Machines Corporation (commonly referred to as IBM) is an American multinational technology and consulting corporation. The project was to build an application to add the functionality of One-time Withdrawal to the Workflow & Imagining application. It will let the user search for clients and process the service requests.  Roles and Responsibilities:  • Developed reusable and interoperable Web service modules based on SOA architecture using SOAP and RESTFUL  • Developed the service layer, a layer that acts a bridge between the presentation layer and data access layer, with Spring framework.  • Setting up the cluster environment for WebLogic Server integrated with multiple workflows.  • Developed ANT build scripts, UNIX shell scripts and auto deployment process using weblogic.deployer and weblogic.admin utilities.  • Expertise with NoSQL databases like HBase, Cassandra, Dynamo DB (AWS) and MongoDB.  • Wrote UNIX shell script to monitor and report the changes in transaction counts of different message types, gave the output in graphical format.  • Created many batch scripts using UNIX bash scripting and scheduled in Cron Tab  • Design UI screens using JSP, CSS, Struts Framework, AJAX, Java Script and HTML.  • Hands on experience in AWS provisioning and good knowledge of AWS services like EC2, S3, Glacer, ELB, RDS, SQS, SWF, EBS etc  • Experience in implementing dynamic web applications using Apache Tomcat , IIS Web logic, Jboss, Web sphere, and Glassfish.  • Worked on developing the web services classes, WSDL using Apache Axis. Developed Web Services to retrieve data from legacy systems.  • Involved in the analysis, design, development, testing and maintenance phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of benefit shift Project.  • Developed web services components using XML, SOAP and Axis.  • Developed the view-controller components using Servlets/JSPs, JavaScript, CSS, Web services, and DHTML  • Creation of database objects like tables, views, stored procedures, materialized views and packages using oracle tools like PL/SQL developer.  • Developed user-friendly interface to seamlessly combine the new module with existing login system by using AngularJS  • Developed the JSON structure for the data transfer in between the Goggle Web Toolkit (UI) and business tier    Tech Skills: Java, Hibernate, Spring, XML, Tortoise SVN, JSP, DB2, MVC, J2EE, Agile, JUnit, Maven, UML, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, Log4J, Oracle , Vaadin, Agile methodology, JavaScript, AngularJS, Eclipse, PL/SQL, JBoss. Software Developer Bank of America - Charlotte, NC October 2011 to September 2014 Monitoring and testing is used to report monitoring and testing activities are performed in organization in compliance to regulatory authority. It involves creating test script and question for a compliance activity.  Roles and Responsibilities:  Equity Swaps Corporate Actions is going through a major re-engineering of its application space.The candidates initial role will be to drive the migration of our C#/WPF GUI to a web based GUI, so experience in technologies such as Angular or React is essential. A key to success will be building an architecture that can evolve quickly as our business continues to lead the market and expand. Experience in UX design is also required. Exposure to Agile methodologies and DevOp techniques would be beneficial.The Equity Swaps business applications are used by Traders, Operations, Risk Management and Finance Controllers to enter trades and manage lifecycle event. Financial experience is *not* required, but interest in learning and solving business problems is essential.We are looking for someone to help own problems and be able to demonstrate leadership and responsibility for the design and delivery of new features. As part of the development cycle, the candidate would be expected to write quality unit tests, supply documentation if relevant for new feature build outs, and be involved in the test cycle (UAT, integration, regression) for the delivery and fixing of bugs for your new features. The candidate would be expected to build relationships with end users in the business unit to understand their needs and be able to help design solutions across the technology stack. You would be expected to get involved in the Level 3 production support rota which is shared between our developers.We are looking for a team player capable of collaborating with people around the world, who is a self-starter and motivated to explore ideas to come up with innovative solutions. Our development team is global, having colleagues in Europe and Asia.  • Developing backend code using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Using Spring for dependency injection and for data access layer code.  • Using Collection API, generics, serialization, exception handling using Java.  • Ensure Code quality and Unit Test coverage (Junit) of the Development  • Using spring annotation for developing RESTful web service.  • Deploying application on tomcat server using U Deploy.  • Doing integration testing for application in integration environment.  • Following the Agile principles and ensure on time release    Tech Skills: Java , Spring, RESTful web service, Spring data, Tomcat, Eclipse, log 4j, JSON, SVN, Oracle, Maven. Java Programmer BCBS - Dallas, TX September 2009 to September 2011 Health Care Service Corporation (HCSC) is the largest customer-owned health insurance company in the United States, and an independent licensee of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association. HCSC offers a variety of health plans for families, children. Encounter repository is the data repository for the maintenance and processing of the 837 institutional, Professional and Dental claims.  Roles and Responsibilities:  • Analyze requirements, involved in agile methodology approach, meetings with business team to evaluate business requirements and transform them into technical aspects.  • Developed a high performing fault tolerant data services layer using Spring/JDBC/Oracle DB /PL-SQL/Hibernate/EJB technologies.  • Developed data exchange interface between legacy systems and billing sub-systems using Open Source technologies like Apache Axis, Spring, JDBC/JMS template etc.  • Developed and consumed REST and SOAP API based Web services that allow sophisticated, effective and low cost application integration. Used JSON as the data interchange format.  • Developed PL/SQL stored procedures, cursors and Triggers in Oracle database.  • Worked on Git Hub for Configuration management, Jenkins for Continuous Integration (CI).  • Followed Agile Development methodology, attended retrospective meetings every sprint and Daily scrums.    Tech Skills: Java, J2EE, JDK , Eclipse, Spring, JDBC, JMS, Web Services(SOAP and REST), CXF, JSON, SOAP UI, JUnit, XML, HTML, JSP, AJAX, JavaScript, JQuery, XML, XSD, XSL, Web logic Application Server, Oracle , TOAD, Maven, Jenkins, Git Hub Java Developer Intuit Inc - Mountain View, CA June 2007 to September 2009 Intuit Inc. is an American enterprise software company that develops financial and tax preparation software and related services for small businesses, accountants and individuals.  Roles and Responsibilities:    As an experienced member of our Software Engineering Group we look first and foremost for people who are passionate around solving business problems through innovation & engineering practices. You will be required to apply your depth of knowledge and expertise to all aspects of the software development lifecycle, as well as partner continuously with your many stakeholders on a daily basis to stay focused on common goals. We embrace a culture of experimentation and constantly strive for improvement and learning. You'll work in a collaborative, trusting, thought-provoking environment - one that encourages diversity of thought and creative solutions that are in the best interests of our customers globally  This role requires a wide variety of strengths and capabilities, including:  • Worked with OOPS concepts and developed the project for Mobile Application.  • Designing UI screen for Insurance Quote to get User information with JSP.  • Writing custom tag handlers for Insurance Quote page to calculate the age of the person using the date of birth information entered.  • Developing Action Classes, Service Classes for Resident Insurance Premium payment module.  • Developed reusable web components, JSP, Servlets and Java Beans that use the MVC pattern to access EJB (Entity Beans) for the modules of user registration.  • Writing PL/SQL Queries to get schedule of policy payment and defaults.    Tech Skills: Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Java Beans, EJB, PL/SQL. UFT, Selenium Web driver, Gherkin, Spec Flow, N Unit and TAF HP QTP • Experience in web services testing using Soap UI.  • Conversant with XML, XSLT, XML Web Services, WSDL, UDDI, SOAP.  • Experienced in creating and tracking defects using Team Foundation Server (TFS) and HP QC.  • Strong Analytical, Problem Solving, Debugging and Interpersonal skills with excellent understanding of system development metrics, techniques and tools.  • Quick learner, Hard dedicated worker with passion and drive to learn new skills.    TECHNICIAL SKILLS  • Technologies-Core Java (NIO, Collections, Concurrency, Sockets), Servlets, JDBC, JSP, J2EE, JMS (PTP, Sub/Pub), JAXB, JAXM, EJB, Web Services, JNDI, RMI, SAX and DOM parsers, Struts, Hibernate, XML, XSL, JUnit, Swing, C, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, SQL, Stored Procedures, PowerBuilder, UML (Object Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams)  • Application Servers-Web Logic, Web Sphere, JBoss  • Servlet Engines-Web Sphere, Tomcat, JRUN  • Software and IDEs-Eclipse, My Eclipse, JBuilder, IntelliJ-IDEA, Visual Café, Visual Studio  • DBMS-SQL/PLSQL/HQL, MySql, NoSQL DBMS, Green Plum, Oracle RDBMS, Sybase, IBM DB2,Tera data, MongoDB, Cassandra.  • Clouds-AWS, EC2, Google cloud, MS Azure  • Operating Systems-LINUX, UNIX, Windows  • Programming Tools-My Eclipse, Argo, Uml, Jasmine, Qtest, JIRA, Junit, Hudson, Ant, Cruise Control, Quartz, MS Visual studio, CVS, Subversion, GIT, VSS, Perforce.  • Web Technology- HTML5, ASP.Net 3.5/4.0, Web Services, WCF, SOAP, MSMQ, REST, XML, XSL, AJAX, jQuery, JSON, CSS AngularJS, Bootstrap, Asp.Net Web API, IIS 6/7 Education Bachelor's Atlanta, GA Present Bachelors of Engineering in Computer Science in Computer Science California State University