API Developer API <span class="hl">Developer</span> Apex, NC • About 10 years of professional experience in developing and implementing J2EE technologies and Object-Oriented methodologies in mortgage, healthcare, retail, Blockchain and other private sectors using a variety of frameworks deployed on different application servers  • Well versed with all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including analysis, design, development, deployment, testing and maintenance of enterprise level applications  • Strong expertise in Enterprise Java API - Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JSF, JNDI, JDBC, JPA, EJB, JMS  • Java 1.8: extensively used Streams and parallel streams, foreach, filter, reduce, collect, Lamdas, Method references, Time API, String Joiner.  • Strong expertise in implementing multi-threading and using parallel streams in Java 8 and ExecutorService.  • Expertise in J2EE Web tier frameworks like Struts, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, JSF and Rich Faces  • Good understanding of latest frameworks and tools like Google Flutter, Angular, React.  • Proficient in using various design patterns such as MVC, Singleton, Service Locator, Session Façade, Data Transfer Object, Value Object, Factory Pattern and DAO  • Expertise in J2EE middle tier frameworks EJBs and Object Relational mapping frameworks like Hibernate, iBatis and JPA (Eclipse Link and Open JPA).  • Excellent knowledge and experience in SQL queries, PL/SQL Stored Procedures and Functions to interact with Oracle and DB2 databases.  • Expertise in using HQL, JPQL, Criterion Queries, Native Queries & Named Queries.  • Expertise in building and consuming Webservices (SOAP, REST).  • Experience in building REST APIs on AWS using Lambdas and API Gateway.  • Good knowledge and hands-on experience on using SOAP webservice engines like Apache Axis2 and Apache CXF.  • Proficient in using XML technology suite (DTD, Schema, SAX, STAX, DOM, XPath, XQuery, XSL, XSLT, Schematron).  • Good knowledge and experience in various development methodologies like Scrum, Agile, Rational Unified Process (RUP), Test Driven Development (TDD), Extreme Programming (XP), UML and Rational Rose.  • Good understanding and experience on No SQL database tool like CouchDB, Marklogic, Apache Solr and Google Firebase.  • Hands-on experience with Python core and Flask framework.  • Good understanding of configuring and using Liqui Base tool (Database Change Management tool).  • Coordinated project execution and support with multiple teams (Onsite/Offshore).  • Good understanding and experience in Android development, generating Android code from React-native code and Google Flutter code.  • Good at Design Documents, Unit Test Cases, Integration Test Case, Integration Test Plan documents. Work Experience API Developer February 2019 to Present Collaboration platform enables organizations to quickly build blockchain and integrate existing applications with blockchain. This platform greatly reduces time and complexity by providing Drag and drop feature to create blockchain and nodes required for the blockchain. The admin module, called Provisioning Platform, will be used by admins to quickly provision Blockchain and databases required by an organization to get them up and running Blockchain solution.  Responsibilities:  • Write Python back-end APIs required by Provision module and Collaboration module.  • Create AWS Lambda functions to host Python APIs.  • Create REST functions using AWS Gateway to expose Lambda functions.  • Write body mapping templates and JSON models required for Gateway and Lambda interaction.  • Use Serverless Framework to deploy Lambda functions and API Gateway functions.  • Build provisioning platform UI screens and Collaboration platform UI screens using Angular components, following MVC pattern  Environment:  Python, Anaconda Spyder, Angular, PostgreSQL, Putty, Agile, JIRA, Confluence, GIT, Bitbucket, AWS EC2, AWS Lambda, AWS CLI, Serverless Framework.    Employer: Paradigm Infotech  Project 1: DQC - DIRECT (Drug quality & control - CDER Direct Registration and Listing Web Interface) Team lead and Java Blockchain Developer Fibonacci Solutions - Raleigh, NC December 2018 to Present Raleigh, NC    Project1: Thalr Cryptocurrency  Role: Team lead and Java Blockchain Developer. 12/18 - Present  Thalr, the next generation of digital currency backed by physical silver bullion. Thalr leverages innovations brought to market by first generation cryptocurrencies and integrates emerging technologies for scalable and sustainable decentralization. The combination of blockchain technology with a tangible asset, creates a stronger store of value and provides a truly border-less and globally accepted currency with intrinsic value.  Responsibilities:  • Build node software for Laying network node, Mining network Node and Storage cluster node.  • Attend design meetings and create user-stories, assign story points, identify epics, assign user-stories to other developers, peer review code, smoke test, move tasks to QA for Thalr Blockchain development.  • Create sequence diagrams and write Technical specification documents for all modules.  • Research and recommend on Blockchain and Ledger development.  • Create initial project structure, Bitbucket branches for all Thalr application modules.  • Prepare and present demo, periodically, to Thalr customers.  • Following MVC pattern write code using JavaFX and JavaFX Scene builder to build UI screens for Thalr Mining Desktop app.  • Use Spring REST template for calling Laying-Network APIs to implement Node validation.  • Use BouncyCastle APIs to encode, decode, encrypt, decrypt and generate certificates.  • Install Kafka and zookeeper cluster on AWS EC2 using docker-compose. Use Spring Kafka template to produce and consume JSON messages from Kafka Topic.  • Configure UI tools on AWS EC2 for Kafka administration like Yahoo KafkaManager and Zoonavigator.  • Write Docker-compose file for creating CouchDB container needed by Laying-network-node container.  • Write code to create CouchDB views for filtering blocks and transactions, code to retrieve data and save data to CouchDB.  • Add steps in the Docker file to create shared volume to put all the app log files, certificates, config files.  • Created Spring Boot maven profiles to create dev, stage or prod environments.  • Configure logging framework for all modules using log4j2 with spring boot.  • Integrated spring-boot-maven-plugin into pom xml to generate Node software jar files.  • Configure SonarQube on AWS EC2 to perform code analysis and generate report.  • Install and configure Jenkins on AWS EC2 for continuous deployment and run SonarQube analysis.  • Research on Orchestration tool RedHat OpenShift for continuous deployment of Thalr Blockchain modules.  Environment:  JDK 8, OpenJDK 11, Spring Boot, Spring REST, REST Webservices, Lombok, CouchDB, Kafka, Spring Kafka Template, Log4J, JUnit, Eclipse, IntelliJ, POSTMAN, SoapUI, Swagger, Visual Paradigm, Toad Edge, Putty, Agile, JIRA, Confluence, GIT, Bitbucket, Docker, VSCode, Jenkins, SonarQube, AWS EC2, OpenShift.    Project2: Auditchain MVP (Minimum Viable Product) Lead Full Stack Developer Deploy Private Blockchain and Block April 2019 to July 2019 Auditchain is an ecosystem that includes a blockchain protocol and accounting smart contracts to capture, process, audit and report enterprise data, performance data on a real time continuous basis under a continuous independent audit exceeding current accounting, audit and control standards. A public facing and/or permission based presentation layer proposes to render in real time, at the close of every block; balance sheet, income statement, cash flow and statement of changes in stockholders' equity reports that has the capacity to far exceed the reliability of existing reporting standards.  Responsibilities:  • Attend workshops for knowledge transfer from product owner about Auditchain protocol.  • Create DEV and PROD environments for Ruby on Rails project, Angular Front end, Python back-end.  • Deploy Private Blockchain and Block explorer on AWS EC2.  • Deploy Python backend to get list of blocks from Blockchain hosted on AWS EC2.  • Enable CORS setting in python app so that the Angular front-end application can access back-end APIs.  • Fix front end issues and use Angular AOT to generate production build to be deployed on Heroku.  • Update Gems file with required dependencies to deploy Ruby on Rails app on Heroku.  • Update SMTP settings and email templates required by user registration module.  • Install and configure PostgreSql in DEV and Prod environments.  • Deploy apps on Heroku.  Environment:  Python, Flask Framework, Angular, Ruby on Rails, PostgreSQL, VSCode, Anaconda Spyder, Putty, Agile, JIRA, Confluence, GIT, Bitbucket, Jenkins, SonarQube, AWS EC2, AWS Beanstalk, Heroku, Heroku CLI.    Project3: Collaboration Platform (Blockchain as a Service). Senior Oracle and Java Developer FDA - Rockville, MD November 2002 to 2018 DQC - DIRECT is a combination DIRECT website and Drug quality and compliance portal. DIRECT is a web based electronic registration and listing submissions interface that shall allow the industry users to enter the data via a user-friendly data entry form, will form the SPL submission package with initial validation, and will invoke the corresponding FDA internal HL7 SPL validation and process system for further processing. DQC is a web portal where FDA personnel can manage all the compliance items and raise compliance tickets.  Environment:  JDK, Spring MVC, Thymeleaf, JavaScript, jQuery, Spring Boot, Spring JDBC Template, Weblogic, Oracle, SOAP Webservices, REST Webservices, PL/SQL, SQL, XPath, XQuery, XSLT 2.0, Batch jobs, Unix Cron jobs, Cygwin, Log4J, JUnit, Eclipse, IntelliJ, POSTMAN, SoapUI, Swagger, Visio, Toad, Putty, WinSCP, XML Spy, Agile, Pivotal tracker, JIRA, CMMI, Tortoise SVN, Jenkins.    Project 2: LCI (Loan Coverage Insight) Senior Full stack developer FDA - Rockville, MD May 2012 to April 2013 The Drug Quality & Compliance (DQ&C) Portal was established to help the FDA have a common platform to host CDER's stack of domain-based intranet applications. The enterprise portal currently hosts two applications, eDRLS (electronic Drug Registration and Listing System) and UFFDM (User Fee Facility Data Management), which are driven by HL7 SPL and facilities-related data submitted by Industry.    The portal also hosts a key component, the Submissions Manager, which is a tool used to control incoming submissions from the ESG, whether in an automated fashion or in a dedicated manual mode. The component not only provides a precise, real-time dashboard of metrics related to submissions, but also handles the process of manual submissions, which includes viewing SPLs, error reports and notifications, and performing overrides.    The search module is based on Marklogic NoSql database. It provides a way to search for content and take advantage of indexed data.  Environment:  JDK 1.6, Struts, JQuery, Hibernate, SOAP, REST Webservices, XPath, XQuery, Apache Velocity, Windows Batch jobs, Log4J, JUint, Eclipse, Visio, Toad, Putty, WinSCP, XML Spy, Schematron, Oracle 11g, Marklogic (NoSQL), Agile, CMMI.    Employer: Script2IT Inc.  Project1: IPAD (Integrated Platform for Agents and Diseases) Senior Full stack developer Freddie Mac - McLean, VA April 2011 to 2013 Freddie Mac Loan Coverage Insight (LCI) integrates with loan source systems like Corporate Data Warehouse (CDW), selling and servicing applications like MIDAS. The application enables the management of risk positions over the life of individual loans, securities, or other risk-sharing vehicles.  LCI exposes loan Representations and Warrants information namely sunset dates and seller/service information in display and has search and reporting capabilities.  Environment:  JDK 1.6, JSF, Rich Faces, JQuery, EJB, Open JPA, JMS, WebService, Apache POI, iText, Autosys Batch jobs, Log4J, JUint, Eclipse, Visio, RapidSQL, Putty, SuperPutty, WinSCP, IBM DB2, Agile, Scrum, Maven, Jenkins.    Project3: DQCP (Drug Quality & Compliance portal) Senior Java developer CTIS - Rockville, MD November 2011 to May 2012 IPAD is a comprehensive search tool that enables users to query and analyze structured and unstructured data across NCI CTEP enterprise applications and various biomedical information sources. IPAD provides basic and advanced search where you can search with speed and efficiency (using indexed data). User can customize query parameters and results across business domains and drill down to detailed information. Search results can be exported in multiple formats. This search engine allows user to save searches & user preferences.  Environment:  JDK 1.6, Struts, Spring, EJB, JPA, Apache Solr, JQuery, Log4J, Weblogic web server, Net Beans, Rational Clear Case, Rational Clear Quest, SQL Developer, Actuate ESpreadSheet, Apache POI, XML Technologies, RUP, Agile, CMMI.    Project2: EProtocol Product Java Swing developer CTIS - Rockville, MD November 2011 to May 2012 EProtocol is envisioned as a protocol authoring, reviewing, and approval tool to help in the goal of reducing the time between concept approval and protocol approval. The tool will support idea generation (LOI/Concept) to protocol completion and will aid in reaching this achievement in several ways:  • Assist protocol authors in the creation of protocol documents, including inserting boilerplate protocol content.  • Encourage standardization of protocol documents. Consistent organization, structure, and formatting will make review easier and more efficient. Using standard structure can help in automated data extraction into different systems.  • Provide a tool for the protocol reviewers to comment and track comments.  • Track content changes across multiple versions of the document.  • Automate protocol submission, approval workflow and notification.  Environment:  Java 1.5, Swing, Struts, EJB, JavaMail, Weblogic web server, JDeveloper, SQL Developer, Apache Open Office, Rational Clear Quest, Rational Clear Case, Log4J, RUP, CMMI.    Employer: IT America Inc.  Item File Development (Hazmat and Hazwaste) Rational Software Architect ISD, Wal-Mart - Bentonville, AR October 2010 to October 2011 Bentonville, AR 10/10 - 10/11    Regulated GTIN of Item File Development is an application responsible for compliance-based initiatives at a GTIN level. The primary purpose of Regulated Gtin is to provide a web app, to be used by stores to know information about all products and a web service, to be used by third party organization called WERCS that sends us information related to hazardous materials and hazardous waste materials.  Environment:  JDK 1.5, Struts, JSTL, EJB, JDBC, HTML, JNDI, Log4J, XPath, JUnit, WebSphere Application Server, Rational Software Architect (RSA), IBM DB2, HPQC, Queryman, Putty, Apache Axis, TDD (Test Driven Development).    Employer: Teleparadigm networks Ltd., India small entrepreneur Interactive Helpline System November 2007 to October 2008 for Small Entrepreneurs 11/07 - 10/08  Interactive Helpline System is an interactive interface between User and worker (small entrepreneur). The user can sign into the website and search for workers. He needs to enter his location and the skill of the worker (Plumber, electrician etc.). This system takes these inputs and processes his request and displays the results on the page and can send the same results to a mobile. Users who used this system can add their feedback, that will serve as a review for next users. Workers who want to get some work needs to register their details with our system.  Environment:  J2EE (JDK1.4.1, EJB 2.0, Servlets, JSP, JDBC), JavaScript, HTML, jSMS, Eclipse, Tomcat, Oracle database, Windows Server Education Master of Software Engineering in Software Engineering Stratford University - Falls Church, VA 2009 to 2010 Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science in Computer Science Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University 2004 to 2008 Master of Computer Science in Pharmacy Harrisburg University - Harrisburg, PA Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/srimayee-madasu https://github.com/srimayee