Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Blue Star Sports Omaha, NE Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Blue Star Sports - Denver, CO February 2018 to Present Founded in 2015 Blue Star Sports is led by a passionate team of experts who come with a history of entrepreneurial and managerial success.  Project Description:  Designed and developed responsive Java application that is used for generating E-Gift cards, scan eGift cards, exchange gift cards for money and print them on a cutting-edge electron application implemented on a KISOK. We developed it using MEAN stack.  Responsibilities: • Involved in Daily Scrum (Agile) meetings, Sprint planning, grooming to gather & understand requirements and estimation of the tasks for the user stories, participated in retrospective and presenting Demo at end of the sprint.  • Used Test Driven Development (TDD), Unit Tests (Junit, Mockito), Gradle, JIRA issue navigator, GIT as a part of everyday tasks.  • Developed the unit test cases in Test Driven Development (TDD) and mock testing using JUNIT and Mockito frameworks.  • Developed Web applications using Java, J2EE, Struts and Hibernate.  • Actively involved in coding using Java 1.8, Spring 4.x to develop features from end to end.  • Designed and implemented an application using Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring Transactions, Dependency Injection using Spring Annotations, Spring AOP, Spring Container-managed transactions, and Hibernate.  • Used Spring Security for authentication and authorization of users, Spring JDBC for easy database operations using JDBC template and Spring Boot for easy bootstrap applications from scratch.  • Used spring's test framework to create integration tests for various spring controllers to test our API using unit tests.  • Developed Microservices using Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud.  • Used a Microservices architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST and Spring Boot.  • Implemented RESTful Web services to retrieve data from client side and made REST API calls from Node JS, parsed the data to project to client and handled the security and Authorization using Spring Security or OAuth.  • Maintained high-quality RESTful services and implemented REST web Services using Spring MVC and JAX-RS.  • Wrapped the web application to desktop application using electron.js.  • Worked with Node.js to make calls to the web services using URL's which would perform GET, PUT and POST operations on the server.  • Involved in the configuration and administration of AWS (Amazon Web Services), EC2 (Elastic Cloud Computing) resources such as instances, EBS volumes, snapshots, elastic load balancers.  • Involved in deploying systems on Amazon Web Services (AWS) Infrastructure services EC2.  • Extensively used hibernate named queries, criteria queries, Hibernate Query Language (HQL) to interact with database to perform database operations.  • Developed Data Access Layer using Hibernate ORM framework, Spring JDBC and Spring Transactions.  • Implemented and managed high availability (Replication) and load balancing (sharing) cluster of Mongo DB having TB's of databases.  • Hands on experience with data base design in both SQL and NO-SQL databases • Create SQL queries to join tables, aggregate data and modified PL/SQL queries to match the business requirements.  • Used Selenium for performing automated testing.  • Involved in the development of presentation layer and GUI responsive development using JSP, HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, jQuery.  • Responsible for setting up Angular 4 framework for UI development.  • Participated in front end development using Angular 4, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS 3.0, JSON and Bootstrap.  • Experience in developing prototypes using responsive frameworks like Bootstrap.    ENVIRONMENT: Java 8, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, XML, JSON, Angular 4, Bootstrap, Node JS, Electron JS, AWS, Spring, Struts, Hibernate, Struts, Oracle, PL/SQL, MongoDB, web service (RESTful), WebSphere, JUnit, JIRA, Mockito, Gradle, Selenium. Sr. Java Developer DXC Technologies - El Paso, TX August 2015 to January 2018 DXC is the world's leading independent, end-to-end IT services company, helping clients harness the power of innovation to thrive on change. Their technology independence, global talent and extensive partner network combine to deliver powerful next-generation IT services and solutions.  Project Description: Developed a full stack real estate / property web application. This application integrated API from leading property content providers like Realtor and Redfin. We were able to show property listings, for sale, for rent and displayed local information, agents, house prices in the area, etc.  Responsibilities: • Involved in the design discussions and understanding of business requirements.  • Identified the relevant functional and technical requirements.  • Used AGILE methodology and actively participated in Scrum meetings to produce quality deliverables within time.  • Created object modeling using UML2.  • Created Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Activity Diagrams to describe the relationship that exists among system's object in accordance with the business requirements.  • Involved in the Development of various layers to accommodate the application as per the MVC design pattern, DAO and DTO patterns using Spring, Struts and Hibernate.  • Involved in system design and Core java 8 development using Collections Framework, Exception Handling, I/O System, Multi-Threading, Lambdas, Streams, Parallel Streams, Functional Interfaces, and JDBC for the action classes.  • Developed interactive and dynamic web pages using hand coded semantic HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular 2 and Bootstrap.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  • Designed and developed XSLT transformation components to convert data from XML to HTML.  • Used XML DOM API for parsing XML.  • Extensively used Spring IOC, configured Application Context files and performed database object mapping using Hibernate annotations.  • Spring AOP was used for intercepting the SOAP requests and for logging requests and also for transaction management.  • Used Hibernate Template and Core Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Developed Web services to allow communication between applications through REST.  • Worked on performance tuning of cluster using Cassandra, configured internode communication between nodes and client using SSL encryption.  • Used Maven to build the application and deploy it on to the server.  • Deployed applications on WebSphere Application Server and performed required configuration changes.  • Maintained version control of the Java files with SVN and GIT.  • Used Log4j for logging various levels of information like error, info, and debug into the log files.  • Wrote unit testing codes using JUnit, resolved bugs and other defects using Firebug, JIRA and Eclipse's debugging tool.  • Involved in Unit integration, bug fixing, acceptance testing with test cases, Code reviews.    ENVIRONMENT: Core Java ( Java 8), HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, XML, Angular 2, Bootstrap, Spring Core, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring DAO, Struts, Hibernate, Struts, Cassandra, SOAP web service, RESTful web services, Maven, WebSphere, JUnit, JIRA, Firebug, SVN, GIT Java/J2EE Developer AmDocs - Chicago, IL June 2014 to July 2015 Amdocs CRM is an in-house web-based tool for Customer Relationship Management. This solution is supplied to different clients along with customizations to help Amdocs' clients manage their customers in a better, fast and efficient manner. The solution is customized heavily based on individual client requirements, such as UI-related changes or integration with legacy applications.  Project Description: The project involved working with the designers and fellow developers to ensure that the front end looks absolutely pixel perfect to the designs. Turned designs into pixel perfect HTML5/CSS3 interfaces. Built an UI with addictive interactions, designed re-usable templates for developers to use and worked closely with the designers, back-end and the rest of the team.  Responsibilities: • Involved in all phases the of an end-to-end implementation which included project requirements gathering, analysis, design, development, testing and debugging.  • Provided Java programming support for existing and new applications.  • Developed Web applications using Java, J2EE, Struts and Hibernate.  • Enforced quality and validity of data affected by Java programs via database packages in core java.  • Utilized Java 8 features like Lambda expressions and Stream API for bulk data operations on collections which would increase the performance of the application.  • Designed Prototype and project layout skeletons using jQuery, CSS3, HTML5, XML, DHTML and JavaScript.  • Developed Single Page Applications (SPA's) using AngularJS.  • Used AngularJS in creating animations based on CSS classes for a new requirement surfaced by the client.  • Created a responsive web application integrating Bootstrap with AngularJS and media queries.  • Used Spring dependency injection, annotations and Spring MVC components to implement business layer and navigation part of application.  • Implemented the associated business modules integration using Spring, and Hibernate data mapping.  • Used JavaScript, CSS, C++, and HTML to create front-end screens of the module.  • Used JavaScript validation frame work for performing front end validations.  • Involved in developing Database access components using Spring DAO and integrated it with Hibernate.  • Worked on performance tuning of cluster using MongoDB, configured internode communication between MongoDB nodes and client using SSL encryption.  • Exposed and consumed SOAP based Web Services to communicate between systems.  • Testing and deploying the application on JBOSS and WebSphere.  • Created and configured new JIRA projects and worked with departments to maintain existing JIRA projects.  • Followed TDD (Test Driven Development) methodology to write unit tests with JUNIT    ENVIRONMENT: Core Java ( Java 8), C++, HTML, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, XML, DHTML, Angular JS, Bootstrap, Spring Core, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring DAO, Spring Security, Spring Integration, Spring web flow, Struts, Hibernate, Struts, MongoDB, SOAP web service, JBOSS, WebSphere, JUnit, JIRA. Java Developer Liberty Mutual - Dover, NH October 2013 to May 2014 Project Description: Supported applications for claims department by passing data from upstream to downstream through checking responses and filtering unwanted data.  Responsibilities: • Worked as a Developer and was involved in the analysis of requirements, design, development, Unit and Integration testing.  • Configured Spring Web MVC Framework to implement MVC design patterns.  • Worked on spring application framework features.  • Worked on Hibernate object/relational mapping as per database schema.  • Extensive use of Struts Framework for validation components and view components.  • Extensively used core java concepts like collection frame work, multi-threading, OOP features and Exception Handling.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML, CSS, BOOTSTRAP, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Responsible for Web UI development in JavaScript using jQuery, AngularJS and AJAX for dynamic loading of Web pages.  • Developed the jQuery callback functions to implement asynchronous communication using AJAX.  • Used Angular JS as frameworks to create single page applications (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server using Sass, Less, Bootstrap, Angular JS.  • Developed custom directives, Factories and Services in AngularJS.  • Worked on the REST Web Services.  • Used Spring Framework and developed the Spring Features like Spring Core, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring Data Access, spring web test, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Spring Security, and Spring Integration.  • Implemented different Design patterns like DAO, Singleton Pattern and MVC architectural design pattern of spring framework.  • Used Hibernate, object relational-mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with SQL-based schema.  • Responsible for Development of Hibernate objects for data fetching for batch and front-end processing.  • Used Log4J API for logging and debugging.  • Written test cases and done Unit testing execution with JASMINE and Junit  ENVIRONMENT: Core Java, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, Angular JS, AJAX, JSP, Spring Core, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring DAO, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Spring Security, Spring Integration, Spring web flow, Hibernate, Struts, Oracle, PL/SQL, XML, REST web service, JUnit, Jasmine. Java Developer Srikari Impetus Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2011 to September 2013 Srikari Impetus Solutions is a core client centric Information Technology organization with proven expertise and deep understanding of various industries. Their expertise in Information Technology has helped clients to achieve greater profitability through our quality services.  Project Description: As a Java Developer, I was responsible for modifying existing application which was used for people in dangerous areas to bring help on the push of a button and built new application components from detailed requirements. I was also involved in most aspects of programming and application development, including file design, update, storage, and retrieval.  Responsibilities: • Implementing Scrum based agile software development for analyzing, designing, and developing applications.  • Involved in the development of various use cases, sequence diagrams using UML.  • Developed the presentation layer written using HTML, CSS, React JS and client-side validations were done using JavaScript, jQuery and JSON.  • Designed a responsive website using Bootstrap grid system to layout contents that fit different devices including mobile, tablet and desktop.  • Used multithreading extensively to improve the performance of the application.  • Designed and developed Action Classes, Form Beans and JSP's.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection.  • Implemented Spring MVC Controller module for better handling of client request • Developed Business Delegates, Value Objects, and Data Access Objects (DAO) • Designed and developed DAO layer using JDBC to access the database.  • Worked on Hibernate for data persistence. Used Hibernate as ORM to map Java classes to data base tables.  • Testing and deploying the application on Tomcat • Designed and developed the database required for the application using Oracle 10g.  • Developed Stored Procedures, Triggers in Oracle to cater the needs for the entire application.  • Handled events and runtime errors using JSF event listeners and validations.  • Writing the Unit Testing of the components using JUnit.  • Involved in developing Test cases and executing them.  • Used Log4J framework for event logging.  • Actively involved in production support and resolved the production issues depending upon priority of issues.    Environment: Java, UML, JSP, Servlets, HTML, CSS, React JS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, Bootstrap JDBC, Spring MVC, Spring Annotations, JDBC, Hibernate, Tomcat, Oracle 10g, JSF, Junit, Log4J Junior Java Developer SONA - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2009 to December 2010 SONA offers a range of IT services including infrastructure support, software development, integration & support, web development & web hosting, quality assurance & testing, cyber security, certification & accreditation (C&A) services, as well as program & project management services.  Project Description: Built a Java application for a recruitment startup. This application was be used by workers and hiring companies. As part of the marketing strategy we used referral codes to reward our customers for referring.  Responsibilities • Involved in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for documentation, designing, development and user acceptance of the system.  • Prepared Low Level Design document using UML, Rational Rose and MS Word.  • Understanding the various functional requirements for a module and client discussions.  • Involved in the designing of User interface using HTML, CSS and performed client-side scripting using JavaScript.  • Involved in preparing Use Cases, Class, and Sequence UML diagrams based on business requirements.  • Implemented SQL queries and used Oracle stored procedures, and built-in functions to retrieve and update data from the databases.  • Wrote various utility and helper classes using Java collection framework.  • Involved in writing the unit test cases using JUNIT and integration testing.  • Identified and fixed the bugs in the Testing Phase.  Environment: Java, JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JUnit, UML, Rational Rose, Net Beans IDE, Apache Tomcat, Oracle, PL/SQL and MySQL. Education Bachelor's Skills JAVA (9 years), JAVASCRIPT (9 years), JUNIT (9 years), DATABASE (8 years), jQuery (8 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Programming Languages C, C++, Java, J2EE  Frameworks Spring 4.0, Spring MVC, Struts 2.3.3, Hibernate 4.3.0  Web Services XML, WSDL, SOAP, REST, JAXP, JAXB, XMLBEANS  Client-Side Technologies JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery 1.11, Angular  Application Servers IBM Apache Tomcat, Glassfish, WebSphere, JBOSS, WebLogic.  Database Tools Oracle 11g, 10g/9i, MySQL, Mongo DB, Dynamo DB, Cassandra  Cloud Technologies AWS, Google Cloud  Build management Ant, Maven  Utilities Log4j, JUnit, JIRA, POSTMAN  Java IDEs NetBeans, Android Studio, IBM RAD, Eclipse, Spring Tools Suite.    Operating Systems Windows 2000/XP/7/10, Linux, Unix, Mac