Senior Java Developer Senior <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Java Developer Waukesha, WI • Having 13+ years of relevant in analysis, design, development, testing, deploying and L3 Production Support software applications for domains like Banking, Securities, Retail and Manufacturing & Hi Tech.  • Expertise in coding, debugging and problem solving  • Strong emphasis and in-depth knowledge of Core java, UNIX, Servlets, JSP, Web services, Struts, spring and Hibernate.  • Development and implementation experience in J2EE multi-tier systems.  • Strong hands on Java, UML Designing, Problem solving and Analytical Skills  • Excellent Interpersonal Communication skills.  • Other Tools like Control M Batch Scheduling Monitoring Tool, Maven, Jenkins, Splunk, Soap UI, IBM WebSphere Service registry and repository. Work Experience Senior Java Developer Kohl's February 2019 to Present Project: Sign Management Application    Description: SES eSign project focuses on implementing the electronic displays (LCD and ePaper) in the retail space of Kohls Department Store to improve the customer experience and reduce the manual intervention. This project interacts with different systems including Pricing, Signing, Schedule update and SAR Report. There are multiple eSign vendors with different eSign technology (LCD, ePaper, etc.). eSign project identify an efficient and future proof system which supports innovations like BLE, Color ePaper, NFC, etc. technologies to improve the customer experience and benefit the retail business of Kohls.    Currently, the system supports a specific size of eSign's in the stores. This project involves 1.6 inch, and 6-inch eSigns from single vendor (Altierre) and modification of existing pricing and signing system to support these new eSign's. There are new eSign vendors that provide their vendor system which integrates with pricing and signing system.    Provide eSign solution using SES ePaper eSigns in one store. Solution must achieve parity with existing eSigns for linking speed, schedule flipping, and associate messaging. Solution must integrate with Sign Management application (eSign Linking and Signing Action Report) and consume Merch KT generated schedules. Currently, Kohl's has dependency upon a single vendor (Altierre) for all its electronic signing (eSign/ESL) needs in the near term. This creates concerns on support, inventory, and the vendor's future roadmap.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for leveraging the existing Kohls web service with Sign Management application and integrate these services including Pricing, Signing, schedule updates detail for the new SES eSign vendor.  • Responsible for Test plan strategy and walkthrough with Business leads.  • Responsible Validating and make is don't impact the exiting Altierre (eSing). After, every SES code release.  • Responsible for Implementing End-to-End functionalities for both small (1.6") and large (6.0") Tags.  • Core functionalities like Registering, Linking, unlinking, Relinking, Force to Default, Schedule updates and Log Exception in sign in Action Report if required  • Responsible to prepare Test case and execute Junit testing all the SES functionalities.  Tools & Technologies: Java 1.8, Rest Webservice, Json, Automation Junit and Rest Assured Api, Microsoft SQL Server 14.0, Maven 3.6, Jenkins, Splunk, Git Hub, SOAP UI, IntelliJ IDEA 2017.1.2. Senior Developer Kohl's - Milpitas, CA October 2017 to January 2019 Project: Point of commerce    Description: Point of Commerce provides a highly configurable user interface (UI) that can be modified and extended to support multiple device types and retailer's unique business needs. Point of Commerce a numerous type of peripheral devices such as POS printers, Pin pads, and scanners.    Retailers must address specific business requirements but often cannot justify the expense to build and maintain unique solutions. Point of Commerce extensibility model enables third parties, including retailers and solution integrators, to deploy custom POS solutions without changing the base product. This approach enables retailers to invest in their own unique needs while Point of Commerce grows the solution to incorporate new technologies and address evolving industry requirements.    In stores, in-store primary servers or in-store offline servers can be used. If the in-store primary server is unavailable, an enterprise server is used as a backup server. If an enterprise server is the primary server and it becomes unavailable, the in-store offline server is used as the backup server. This switching logic enable to operate store seamlessly.    Key store functionality performed by Point of commerce:  ? Sale  ? Returns  ? Even Exchange  ? Post-Sale Adjustment  ? Payments (Cash, check, Kohls Charge Card, Gift card, Kohls Cash, Gift card)  ? Rewards Enrollment  ? Quick credit Enrollment.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for developing, enhancing (customizing the base application) the existing gravity application to adhere kohl's business specification rules  • Responsible for configuring POS UI, receipt for single transaction and to generate sales report for all the transaction  • Responsible for configuring parameters at store level or enterprise level based on business rules  • Involve in weekly story grooming meeting with product owner during grooming the requirement and estimating the story points and justifying the story points to PO if required  • Responsible for updating the artifact document, configuration details and its deliverable's in Jira to meet scrum process (Agile Methodology) for the sprint  • Responsible for validating POS UI and its device interface like pin pad, scanner, printer etc.  • are functioning appropriately for all the transaction flow  • Responsible for troubleshooting production issues reported in gravity, (OMS) sterling, and provide detailed Analysis and Fixes appropriately and closing the incident ticket within agreed SLA  • To participate in daily scrum calls, sprint planning, Estimation, product demo and attending retrospective meetings  • Involve in peer code reviews and walkthrough, integrating the code in Build Management tools such as Jenkins, Maven, ANT and Confluence  • Co-ordinate Unit, Integration, System, Regression testing, UAT and Deployment Support for implementations  • Configure and monitor application performance using Elastic Search, Logstash, and Kibana  • Interaction with business users for requirement clarification and resolution of problems reported  • Analyzing the performance issue and providing the detailed report for the issues reported  • Production Monitoring and hot fix for the issues reported    Tools & Technologies: Gravity framework, Servlet, JSP, Core Java, Rest Web services, Spring Boot, CSS, XSLT, JavaScript, Splunk, Sterling OMS, Oracle, JIRA Senior Developer McClatchy - Chennai, Tamil Nadu March 2017 to October 2017 Project: Team Beige  Description: McClatchy owns and operates 29 individual media companies located throughout the United States. It produces a daily newspaper's and operate news websites including native mobile applications for both iOS and Android producing high quality journalistic content that include text written stories, photos, and videos. There are two content studio management News's Gate manages all content assets and publishes across all media channels. News Gate is flexible and extensible to help implement your content and business strategies. Escenic Content Engine is the motor driving some of the world's busiest online media operations. I.e. News's gate and Escenic CS is used to publish News stories, Bridge application used to integrate these two applications to function same.    Responsibility:  • Strictly follow Agile methodology end to end scrum process.  • Updating daily status in DSM (Daily standup meeting). Attending grooming meeting and retro meeting and release demo meeting.  • Responsible for Escenic development, unit testing, integrating code with develop branch using git hub.  • Responsible to preparing Test case for enhanced requirement and execute Junit testing to cover all the functionalities and make sure it doesn't impact the existing functionalities.  • Involve in peer code reviews and walkthrough, integrating the code in Build Management tools such as Jenkins, Maven, ANT and Confluence  Tools & Technologies: Java 1.8, Servlet, JSP, Java Script, Spring Boot, Rest Webservices, JDOM parser, Junit, web logic, oracle 10g, Maven 3.6, Jenkins, Git Hub, IntelliJ IDEA 2017.1.2. Senior Developer Northwestern Mutual - Milwaukee, WI March 2016 to March 2017 Project: Software Configuration Management  Description: SCM stands for Software Configuration Management. This is a team of software environment management engineers and administrators who set up software environments throughout the life cycle of projects and maintains them. The team is part of the current Centralized Testing Services within Northwestern Mutual Information Systems Department. The SCM team is responsible for builds and migrations for technologies Java, VB, .Net, Unix and Perl scripts and release of software artifacts into production or live environments. Primary responsibility is to Governing web services (SOA Governance), deploying web Service, Associating Services with Consumers, troubleshooting issues (IBM WebSphere Server).    Responsibilities:  • Deployment and production support for all the Northwestern Mutual (NM) Web Service in SOA Governance (IBM WebSphere Service Registry and Repository).  • Deploying web service web service and associating consumers.  • Prepare High level and low-level design of the solution and Address functional or non-functional requirements. Coordination with various departments at Northwestern Mutual for planning, scheduling and deployment of NM systems.  • Coordinate with offshore team. Process compliance, track and report metrics for the project Report progress to Project Manager and attend meetings for gathering requirements.  • Co-ordinating offshore team and ensure handover of work. Coordination with various Service provider and consumer teams for planning, scheduling and deployment of NM systems. Production  Tools &Technologies: Spring Boot, Spring Microservice's, Core Java1.7, JAXP - Java API for XML Processing, SOA Governance, IBM WebSphere Service registry and repository. Senior Developer Credit Suisse - New York, NY September 2013 to February 2016 Project: Corporate Reference Data Hub  Description: This project is part of (Contract Lifecycle Management) CLM/CDU project delivery, on boarding of new applications like ITBM, RRP, and CDU 2.0. Corporate Data Hub (CDH) platform is a golden source of reference data across RFCS (risk, Finance and Corporate Systems) systems and is currently supporting multiple reference data and planning to expand to further asset classes. The project is focused towards supporting multiple (Downstream) domains and provides Master Data Management (MDM) solutions. Risk Recovery Plan (RRP) is another project on platform to be roll out. Under RRP we are sourcing data about critical business application and generating a data report for business continuity. Several projects currently being worked on include CLM, CDU, RRP, ITBM and Onboarding and Batch Operations. A Corporate Data Hub (CDH) is Java based functional project will be primarily involved while working here. CDH is based on technologies like Java, J2EE, JSP, Web services, Servlets/Spring Batch and Batch Processing.    Responsibilities:  • Onboarding new feeds for the existing system. And generating the extracts for the downstream.  • Developing Control-M Batch Scripts, testing and deploying it to the control M tool Enterprise Manager Tool for testing.  • Requirements Analysis for new enhancements requests.  • Functional and Technical Design  • Onsite project coordination.  • Support of bug fixes and issues reported in production.  • Provide support during QA and UAT code check out, building and deploying Supporting QA team throughout the testing cycle.  • Responsible for creating RFC for all the deployment components and getting its approval from its stakeholders.  • L3 Production support any issue raised by L2 team. Closing the INC and problem ticket within 24 hours.  • Managing SVN code base repository (Code merge, branch, truck, tag) for deployment activity.  Tools & Technologies: Core Java1.5, Enterprise Java beans, Unix, J2EE, Hibernate 3.0, Spring Batch, Batch Scheduling Control M Tool, Eclipse, SVN. Senior Developer Apple April 2013 to September 2013 Project: Store Front Operation Data Migration  Description: Currently in Apple, Store Front Operation for Apple Shop, Apple Inline and Apple Gondola program configurations are static, and it's not possible to track the correct level of granularity. For example, if you have defined an Apple Shop as size equal to Large, you do not know if this is 4 or 5 table configurations or if there are 2.4M or 3M tables. To allow tracking of the correct level of granularity the business requires maintaining their branded Apple Shop solutions globally. Data Migration: - Business team will provide the data in flat files. This data needs to be migrated into the database. This requires a complete overhaul of existing and new data for Programs, fixtures, 3D elements and ancillary elements to be performed as part of the 3D library clean-up. This exercise is intended to clean-up random elements which have been created and assigned to locations and programs, as well as populate new attributes which will be added as part of this release.    Responsibilities:  • Development of code to parse excels sheet and assigning to java object using apache POI.  • Need to develop a wrapper using Hibernate layer around this java object and post it to Database.  • Need to develop Macros in Excel to formula for the business data.  • Need to create a design document for the SFO system (sequence diagram, class diagram, architectures diagram). Should be published in apple wiki.  • Need to create system integration Analysis Document for the current business data for client approval for system integration.  • Responsible for writing Test cases and should be tested against the same and share the test case results to client.  • Responsible for fixing all the defects reported in Test Phases, UAT and warranty period.  • Prepared High-Level Design Documentation includes Class Diagram Sequence Diagram and class level Details.  Tools & Technologies: Core Java1.5, apache POI, Hibernate, oracle, Eclipse, SVN. Senior Developer Best Buy June 2010 to March 2013 Project: Buy Easy Activation and Sales Tool (BEAST)    Description: The Beast Buy Mobile is a retail store application BEAST (Beast Buy Easy Activation and Sales Tool). Best buy is involved in building strategic point-of-sale (POS) initiative named BEAST (Beast Buy Easy Activation and Sales Tool) to cater to IT needs of its retail mobile phone business (Best Buy Mobile). Best Buy has multiple systems to maintain Product and customer Information, the BEAST client should be able to interact with the Best Buy Database systems and Enterprise Customer information system, and the product information feed will be loaded to BEAST from Best Buy RMS application.    Responsibilities:  • Requirement analysis, estimation and execution of the project. Participating in all standup meetings to sync-up with the Use case requirements.  • Interacting with business analysts and QA members to clarify project specific clarification for the issues and update the same in defect artifacts.  • Assisting in high level coding, implementation and integration testing. Handling all major functionalities and modules in project.  • Assisting in the Unit testing of the modules. Supports of issues reported in productions.  Tools & Technologies: Core Java1.5, Web services, Spring 3.0, Hibernate, and Oracle. Senior Developer The Home Depot October 2009 to June 2010 Project: Advanced Seasonal Planning  Description: The current version of the Centralized Automated Replenishment (CAR) application is designed to use a CAR-derived forecast for replenishment operations. As the company moves to a more robust forecasting system with the Demand Chain Management (DCM) application, CAR must be able to leverage the DCM forecast where applicable until all SKUs have fully transitioned to a DCM forecast. A more accurate forecast will assist the Inventory Analyst in driving towards proper planning, replenishment, and improved inventory performance metrics. The key objectives of this project are:  ? Ability to create improved seasonal profiles  ? Ability to calculate a more accurate ASW/ARS  ? Ability to be more responsive to trends in data  ? Modifications to CAR front-end and back-end logic to leverage the DCM forecast where applicable    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the requirement gathering Business functionality for DCM forecast channel.  • Involved in the preparing Functional and Technical Documentations.  • Prepared impact Analysis Documents and Traceability Matrix for the Current application  • Prepared High-Level Design Documentation includes Class Diagram Sequence Diagram and class level Details.  • Responsible for the Development and delivery Project within time frame proposed by the client  • Involved in preparing Documents for Unit Test & System Test as well as Responsible for testing those test cases.  • Responsible for the QA Fixes and delivery of the code from clear case.  • Responsible for the Clear Case Resource.  Tools & Technologies: Java 1.5, C#.Net 2003, Restful Web Service, IBM Rational Clear Case7.0, Web Sphere Application Server 6.0, Apache Tomcat Server6.0, Rational Application Developer 6.0, Eclipse 3.3, DB2, Tera Data Database. Java Developer Inventrak March 2009 to September 2009 Project: Inventrak  Description: InvenTrak is a web-based retail management application that operates within the Retail Cloud to deliver on-demand enterprise management tools to small and medium-sized merchants. InvenTrak gives you everything you need to help manage your business: Inventory management, CRM, labor management, enterprise reporting and PosiTrak, our point of sale software application. Backed by a secure and remotely accessible Central Administrative Server, InvenTrak receives and processes all information from the POS in real time, giving merchants a current and fully comprehensive view of their business. Let InvenTrak help give your small business some big ideas.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in interacting with onsite Team for gathering requirement.  • Involved in preparing documents for functional and Technical requirements.  • Involved in developing prototypes and Technical flow diagram.  • Involved with clients regularly for smooth in delivery processes and trouble-free deployment  • Conducted code reviews as per the standards given.  • Developed Web module using Struts MVC, Servlets and Jsp.  • Responsible for implementing server-side validations across the application.  • Used JavaScript extensively for client-side validations and user friendliness.  Tools & Technologies: Java 1.5, Struts 1.3, Ajax, JBoss, MySQL, JavaScript and Linux Fedora. Java Developer Bank of Tokyo and Mitsubishi UFJ - Phoenix, AZ June 2008 to February 2009 Description: The Phoenix system is being developed for Bank of Tokyo and Mitsubishi UFJ (BTMU). Phoenix is a back-end system that is responsible for the 'Operations' activities for the derivatives trading carried out by BTMU. The system helps to monitor the deals. It carries out all actions associated with each life cycle event of the deals. It helps in passing all the accounting entries by way of hand-offs to the GL system. It helps in reconciliation of deals and maintenance of market rates on a daily basis.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing struts coding. Coding confirms to the Java coding standards adopted by Organization.  • Involved in preparing documents for functional and Technical requirements.  • Involved in developing prototypes and Technical flow diagram.  • Involved in critical problem solving in Db Functions like DAR, OTC Average Dates  • Involved in solving bugs in almost all master screens like Static masters and OTC Deal Entry.  • Involved in impact analysis across the application while solving issues. And providing appropriate Approach documents for appropriate fix.  • Involved in interacting with onsite Team for gathering requirement.  • Conducted code reviews as per the standards given.  • Developed Web module using Struts MVC, Servlets and Jsp.  • Used Validator plug-in of struts framework to handle server-side validations.  • Used JavaScript extensively for client-side validations and user friendliness.  • Wrote Data Access Objects to interact with Database.  • Developing business logic using Session Beans.  • Wrote Business Delegates for accessing Session Beans.  Tools & Technologies: Java 1.5, Servlets, Ajax, JavaScript, EJB, SQL Server 2005 & PL/SQL, IBM Web sphere Java Developer Embesow Educational Trust July 2007 to May 2008 Project: FOCUS  Description: Manage student data for the current and backed dated student records throughout the admission process from inquiries to Exit of the student records. Monitor the progress of student's course timetable and events in the calendar. Track and manage all types of student fees including tuition, course fees, textbooks, bus passes and other payments of students. Sync all payments with Payment system to consolidate the financial statement. Focus provides unlimited custom categories and fields including demographic data, enrollment, attendance and more, and share academic records with faculties, and administrators. Help activities of students with ease in a few clicks. Real-time tracking of student activities such as the attendance, library, hostel, mess, and others and automatically send notifications and reminders via email.    Responsibilities:  • Discussing the best possible solution for the requirement provided  • Creating Java bean class for Database connections  • Generating Reports  • Development, Testing and documentation of provided solutions  • Quick Impact analysis and development  • Conducted code reviews as per the standards given.  • Developed Web module using Struts MVC, Servlets and Jsp.  • Used Validator plug-in of struts framework to handle server-side validations.  • Used JavaScript extensively for client-side validations and user friendliness.  • Wrote Data Access Objects to interact with Database.  • Developing business logic using Session Beans.  • Wrote Business Delegates for accessing Session Beans.  Tools & Technologies: Java1.5, Struts1.3, Dreamweaver8.0, JavaScript, Jsp and SQL Server2005 and Tomcat Skills J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jboss