DevOps lead DevOps lead DevOps lead - Capital One Bank • Implemented CI/CD pipelines involving Jenkins, Docker, Maven, Ansible and Github for complete automation from commit to deployment.  • Utilized Kubernetes for orchestration of Docker containers.  • Analyzed granular metrics of AWS resources through Cloudwatch and created Alarms.  • Analyzed the stack, load and cost to brainstorm architecture to reduce the footprint and cost.  • Used Terraform to automate creation of AWS resources such as ELB, EC2, security groups and S3 buckets.  • Used Ansible to assist in building automation policies.  • Configured Splunk alerts and created dashboards for monitoring.  • Designed and implemented automation deployment using jenkins to promote major releases, monthly releases, and patches from Development -> Integration/QA -> Staging/UAT -> Production.  • Developed chef recipes in ruby and powershell to configure EC2 environments.  • Word on AWS EKS for kubernetes management in cloud. Also used KOPS for K8s cluster creation.  • Redesigned infrastructure for high availability across multiple AWS availability zones.  • Dynamically scaled EC2 instances in AWS production environment through autoscaling.  • Experienced with the following components of AWS: EC2, EBS, EFS, S3, Cloudfront, Cloudwatch, IAM, SQS, RDS, Route53 and ELB Work Experience DevOps lead Capital One Bank January 2018 to Present • Migrated on-premises "Document storage application" to Amazon Web Services.  • Extensive use of AWS CLI to automate backups of ephemeral data-stores to S3 buckets, EBS and created custom AMI's for mission critical production servers as backups.  • Experience in assigning infrastructure to an Auto Scaling group to scale-up and scale-down instances during heavy and low traffic and creating IAM roles (Identity Access management) and setting up policies.  • Utilized Kubernetes and Docker for the runtime environment of the CI/CD system to build, test and deploy applications in clustered docker environment.  • Installed and configured Jenkins as continuous integration server to provide continuous automated builds.  • Implemented EC2 backup strategies by creating EBS snapshots and attaching the volumes to new EC2 instances across multiple regions.  • Setup and build AWS infrastructure resources: VPC, EC2, S3, IAM, EBS, SQS, ELB, Route53, Cloud Front, Security Group, Auto Scaling, RDS in Cloud Formation templates.  • Worked on automation and continuous integration processes with Jenkins and Chef for deployment of recipes to chef server.  • Automated creation of various AWS resources through Cloud Formation Template.  • Created chef recipes to perform instance bootstrap activities including scheduled jobs for robocopy, splunk configuration and shared folders.  • Created Jenkins jobs to automate build and deployment of Java Spring Boot applications in Dockers.  • Developed scripts using PERL and BATCH files for Automation of Activities and builds, multiple Scripting languages like Bash, Python, Ruby, Shell, PowerShell.  • Deployed Java/J2EE applications to Application servers in an agile continuous integration environment and automated the whole process. Provided end-user training for all GitHub users to effectively use the tool. Dev Ops engineer Citi Bank September 2015 to December 2015 • Worked on AWS EC2 Instances creation, setting up VPC, launching EC2 instances and worked on Cloud Watcher for providing high availability of applications and EC2 instances based on the load of applications.  • Maintained JIRA for tracking and updating projects defects and tasks.  • Implemented data synchronization between multiple Availability Zones through Windows Robocopy.  • Automated Start/Stop of non-prod instances to reduce cost.  • Integrated Sonar with CI and CD for  • Worked on DR strategy by implementing failover to US-West from US-East and falling back to US-East.  • Created jobs to take snapshots of EBS volumes at scheduled intervals, copied them to another AWS region and create EBS volumes out of them to mount them to EC2.  • Created Docker images using a Docker File, worked on Docker container snapshots, removing images and managing Docker volumes.  • Responsible for nightly and weekly builds for different modules. Built and deployed the java applications onto different environments through Jenkins. DevOps engineer Fossil Inc August 2011 to September 2015 • Led a successful deployment of multiple product releases to QA, Staging and Production environments.  • Worked in all areas of Jenkins setting up CI for new branches, build automation, plugin management and securing Jenkins and setting up master/slave configurations.  • Developed ANT and MAVEN Scripts to automate the build process and Shell/Perl scripts to automate the deployment process.  • Used Jenkins for Continuous Integration and deployment in JBoss Application Server.  • Used Jira as ticket tracking and workflow tool. Monitored, analyzed and visualize the reports using Splunk.  • Experience managing and tuning MySQL and writing SQL scripts. Java Developer Fossil Inc May 2008 to August 2011 • Implemented SOA-REST web services and Clients on Apache Wink utilizing Jackson.  • Migrated search engine from Endeca to Solr 3.5 by implementing Solr from the ground up. This included writing SQL queries to fetch most of the data in IBM DB2 database to index in Solr search engine.  • Developed multiple applications utilizing Jersery, Spring, Hibernate as ORM and DB2 database.  • Implemented Paypal through Cybersource payment gateway.  • Commerce Web application was integrated with Solr search Engine.  • JSTL was utilized in JSP to communicate with Solr through BOD framework.  • Implemented Coremetrics Web analytics and Intelligent Offer in the storefront.  • Added Bazaar Voice Rating and Reviews feature in Fossil managed stores.  • Worked on optimizing application performance routinely through IBM Heap Analyzer.  • Issues were tracked through JIRA. Java Developer Cash America International - Fort Worth, TX April 2006 to May 2008 • Designed Sequence, Class and Collaboration diagrams for use cases in Rational Rose.  • Developed Technical Design Document for different use cases.  • Developed GUI through JSP and JavaScript for accepting customer and loan details. AJAX was used to send user details from presentation layer to business service layer asynchronously.  • Web Services client was generated and invoked Address Validation web service exposed by USPS (United States Postal Service) through JAX-RPC.    Technologies: J2EE, Java, JavaScript, HTML, XML, Struts, JSP, Servlets, JMS, EJB, JDBC, DB2, Webservices, MQ Series, WebSphere 4.0, VSS Version Control Manager, Rational Rose. Java Developer Daimler Chrysler Financial Services November 2003 to April 2006 Implemented Stand-alone Database Purge process module using Java, DB2 stored procedures  and deployed in UNIX environment and run as CRON jobs.  • Developed Web tool on MVC framework to accept Vehicle and customer details for loan approval.  • Implemented Message Driven Beans for message triggered jobs.    Technologies: Java, JavaScript, HTML, XML, Struts, JSP, Servlets, JMS, EJB, DB2, Hibernate, MQ Series, VSS. Skills Java, Hibernate, Java technologies, Spring, Jdk, Jsp, Amazon web services, Docker, Jenkins, Python, Ruby, Scripting, Svn, Security, Web services, Chef, Devops, Cloudfront, Ebs, Ec2 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  • DevOps Tools: Jenkins, Maven, Ansible, Chef, Kubernetes, Docker, Terraform  • Scripting and Programming Languages: Java, Python, Ruby, Powershell, Java, HTML5  • Source Control Management Tools: GitHub, GitBash, SVN  • Bug Tracking Tools: Jira, Bugzilla  • Cloud Platforms: Amazon Web Services (EC2, EBS, EFS, S3, Cloudfront, Cloudwatch, IAM, SQS, RDS, ELB, Route53, Security groups)  • Monitoring Tools: AWS Cloud watch, Splunk, Grafana  • SDLC: Agile, Waterfall  • Operating Systems: Linux, Ubuntu, Mac OS X, Windows  • Java technologies: JDK 7, Spring 4.x, REST Web services, Microservices, Angular JS, Hibernate, JSP, Sonar, Junits, ATTD with cucumber.