Salesforce Developer Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Sales Force Developer - AT&T Atlanta, GA Working as a Sr. Sales Force technologist 6 + yrs. with expertise in designing enterprise Salesforce with design, implementation and deployment. Senior Salesforce with advanced Salesforce APEX, Visual Force, force.com, health cloud marketing cloud and java, over all 11+ yrs. of IT experience Work Experience Salesforce Developer AT&T - Atlanta, GA September 2016 to Present Description:  AT&T is the second largest provider of mobile telephone and the largest provider of fixed telephone in the United States, and also provides broadband subscription television services. And also AT&T is the 20th-largest mobile telecom operator in the world  Responsibilities:  • Created custom objects, Visual Force pages, triggers, and validation rules by using Apex as per Customer requirement, various Tabs, Components and Visual Force Pages and Controllers.  • Worked on various salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Opportunities, Reports and Dashboards.  • Worked on customer portal and complaint and case management.  • Developed and configured various Custom Reports and Report Folders for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  • Manage customers with profiles, permission sets, roles, and sharing rules in customer portal.  • Configured the settings and communication templates, and granted high volume portal users to objects in customer portal.  • Involved in setting up custom interaction logs for service cloud console, custom wizard for users to create a Case related to Account and contact.  • Created custom controllers implementing complex code for Sales Force, VF pages, used Email templates in HTML and Visual force.  • Wrote SOQL and SOSL statements within custom controllers, extensions and triggers, configuring Data Loader, uploading data in CSV files into Salesforce.com, checking for the correctness of the data.  Environment: Force.com IDE, Custom objects, Triggers, Batch Jobs, Validation Rules, Formula Fields, Data Loader, Reports and Dashboards, SQL Server 2008, Workflow & Approvals, Apex Classes, and Visualforce Pages. Sales Force Developer WAL-MART Inc - Bentonville, AR April 2012 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Requirements definition and application best, Integration scenarios, design to develop Apex/Visualforce according to the business requirements.  • Gathered user and functional system requirements via workshops, interviews and workflow storyboards and Working with stakeholders and project teams to prioritize collected requirements.  • Facilitated data imports/exports, data cleansing, Data categorization and data integrity projects.  • Developed ad-hoc reports as requested by user groups or stakeholders or portals and performs analysis on data as required.  • Moved data from SAP to SFDC using Informatica On-Demand Tool and completed data migration.  • Involved in integrating Salesforce CRM with its ERP (Oracle EBS) system.  • Developed various Visualforce Pages, Apex Triggers to include extra functionality and wrote Apex Classes and Controller to provide functionality to the visual pages.  • Wrote Apex Trigger, Visualforce pages, JavaScript, Web services design and development and donor databases integration for websites.  • Implemented the requirements on Salesforce.com platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse.  • Worked on various AppExchange products according to the needs of the organization.  • Worked on various Salesforce.com standard objects like Case Management, Accounts, Contacts, Content, Reports and Workspaces.  • Developed and supported Extraction, Transformation and Load process (ETL) using Informatica.  • Created many Email Templates and Mail Merge Templates and was involved in doing the mail merge for different standard and custom objects.  • Created a sync of contacts, email alerts, events and tasks between Salesforce to Outlook and Outlook to Salesforce successfully.  • Customized Chatter now for profiles for different users and configuring with Facebook and Twitter.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, time triggered tasks, email alerts, filed updates to implement business logic.  • Created many Approval Process needed in the different stages of the application.  • Developed many Report Types and created various Reports (summary reports) using the Report Builder according to the need of the organization.  • Developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Partner portal, customer portal Implementation & attended Dream Force events to get the real-time integration with business partners.  • Worked with business analyst to develop project implementation and develop plans including user interfaces.  • Communicated regularly with the SFDC designated super users to support them in their role and provide information and training on new features and functionality.  • Resolved the Cases and support the team on urgent bases, implementation and working with real-time troubleshooting.  Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visualforce (Pages, Component & Controllers), Salesforce.com Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Service Cloud, Oracle 10g, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, HTML, Java Script, Java, Web Services, WSDL, Sandbox, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Oracle, Windows. Ecommerce Java Developer Somerset, NJ August 2006 to May 2012 Ivoclar Vivadent is a leading international dental company with a comprehensive product and system range for dentists and dental technicians.  • Worked on development of Ecommerce website which included:  • Involved in design and development.  • Involved in Data analysis.  • Involved in the Java J2EE applications.  • Involved in the end-to-end solution implementation Skills Salesforce (6 years), Salesforce developer (6 years), sales force developer (6 years), salesforce.com (6 years)