Principle Software Engineer Principle Software Engineer Principle Software Engineer - Macys, CA California City, CA ? Over 12 years of extensive experience in Design and Development of Distributed and Client-Server applications, application specification, design, development, testing and implementation and post-production support.  ? Good hold on Java 8 features like Lambda Expressions, Functional Interfaces Java Time API, Collections and Concurrency API improvements.  ? Good experience in working with Spring Boot for implementing Microservices.  ? Experience in web technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular 7, React, Redux, Node.JS.  ? Experienced in developing applications with MEAN and MERN stack.  ? Excellent experience in Restful Web services and consumption using JAX-RS and JAX-WS.  ? Worked on various modules of Spring Core, MVC, DAO and JDBC to make application flexible and loosely coupled.  ? Worked with AWS for development, deployment and managing applications.  ? Worked with Docker containers for deploys and run the application.  ? Hands on experience in Restful web services Development and validation.  ? Hands on experience in using Soapui pro  ? Extensively used OOPS concept, AWT, Swings, Enumerations, and Annotations.  ? Experienced in total development life cycle of software product.  ? More than four years of technical expertise in developing Client-Server, Web-Based and N-Tier applications.  ? Experience in developing applications using BEA WebLogic 10.1 with J2EE technologies.  ? Expertise in database technologies including developing SQL, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers using Oracle RDBMS.  ? Good exposure with Application servers, Web servers likes JBoss, Tomcat, WSAD  ? Good Experience with GUI/IDE tools such as RAD, Borland JBuilder 7.0, Oracle JDeveloper 3.0, Eclipse.  ? Extensive experience in Design Patterns.  ? Experience in MVC (Model View Controller) architecture and Spring.  ? Designed white box test cases to check method coverage, statement coverage, decision coverage and condition coverage by using JUnit.  ? Has Experience in automating Rest service tests using Rest Assured and Soapui Pro (Ready API).  ? Expertise in attending and solving after production issues such as performance issues and data integrity issues and handling high pressure situations such as server downtimes.  ? Excellent interpersonal and technical skills with a sharp acumen for understanding and grasping the various needs of businesses. Work Experience Principle Software Engineer Macys, CA May 2016 to Present BuyOnlineShiptoStore[BOSS]: This project is to introduce a new pick up process. Once the customer places the pickup order online, most items available at local store will be ready in just two hours if the order is placed before 6pm local time. Items being shipped to the local store may take up to 5-8 business days. Customer will get an email after the items being shipped are ready for pick up. In this project we have to test new product with other existing products i.e., mixed bag items.    Men's Warehouse [TUX]: This project is to integrate digital tuxedo rental service via The Men's Warehouse (TMW) in Macys portal (only MCOM) to leverage Macys.com site for tuxedo rental order placement, and provide user with seamless Omni channel experience while enjoying the Macy's discount as well as Prop cards.  Provide customers with a digital tuxedo rental service via The Men's Wearhouse (TMW) that increases selection and provides accessibility, convenience, and a seamless Omni channel experience.  Implemented a framework for 3P integration where a third-party will handle selection, delivery and fulfillment.    Item Availability: Provides visibility to Item Availability across the Macy's Inc. network in order to optimize digital customer experience. Balance customer experience (accuracy and timeliness of updates) with cost effectiveness. Manage expectations and message urgency when Item Availability is low. Provide customer with options for unavailable items. Optimize the call sequence from MSP Order to FCC Services. Identify/Analyze all redundant calls to FCC; Adjusted quantity - Messaging Available quantity instead of 'item unavailable'.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in analyzing system specifications, design, development and execution of test plans and test cases for Manual and Automated testing.  ? Developed end to end application on Java 8, Springboot in backend React with Redux in frontend.  ? Used Spring Boot framework to write Presentation Layer, Business Layers and Controller servlets.  ? Implemented Spring Boot Actuator to monitor and manage the application.  ? Write database queries and programs for data insertion, updates and views.  ? Documented requirements for necessary customizations.  ? Created S3 buckets in the AWS environment to store files, sometimes which are required to serve static content for a web application.  ? Used React JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  ? Extensively used React JS, underscore.js, Node JS and lodash.js for JavaScript object and array manipulations.  ? Analyzing the Requirements, designing a solution and interacting with team members to provide effort estimates, Coding and Unit Testing using Node.JS.  ? Worked on React JS and Node JS framework to develop interactive websites based on client needs.  ? Utilized React-Redux libraries for state management to maintain consistency across different environments.  ? Developed front-end test Cases by using Jest-Enzyme.  ? Experience developing application with the features of Angular 5 such as components, pipes directives, modules and routing.  ? Worked with TypeScript decorators, interfaces, type restrictions and es6 features  ? Highly used Angular 4 router to build single page application for navigate through the different status and multiple modals  ? Implemented test cases and performed unit testing using Karma and Jasmine.  ? Collaborated with team members using GIT version control with Agile/Scrum environment.  ? Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for a web application, page navigation using Angular 5  ? Configured Selenium Web Driver, TestNG, Maven tool and created selenium automation scripts in java.  ? Extensively used Data Driven, Page Objects design framework for readable test script and easy maintenance.  ? Used SOAP UI tool to test SOA based architecture application to test SOAP services and REST API.  ? Involved in Web Services Testing using SOAPUI to create & execute automated functional, regression compliance.  ? Using REST Client to test the REST services and using various HTTP methods.  ? Involved in loading and validating the WSDLS in SOAP UI and preparing the Request XMLs  ? Developed Test Cases using WSDL, Schema files which defines Web Service Request, Response, methods/operations, End Point of web service to be tested.  ? Experience in working with various data formats which are mostly used in REST pattern like JSON, XML.  ? Responsible for Setting up Web Services project using WSDL in SOAPUI and provided setup help to other team members.  ? Performed Back-End Testing using SQLqueries to validate the data and test the data at various levels.  ? Proactively identify and report on defects, issues and dependencies for the project  ? Coordinated offshore and onshore teams and responsible for work prioritization.  ? Good understanding of Software development life cycle (SDLC) and software processes.    Environment: Java 8, DB2, AWS EC2, S3, Cloud formation, jBoss, AGILE, JIRA, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, Angular 5, React, CSS,JSON, Maven, Jenkins, Web Services, REST API, RESTFUL, SOAP UI, Jira, Linux, Windows. System Analyst Gap INC February 2013 to April 2016 Tokenization: Tokenization is the process to which sensitive information, such as credit card information or social security number is replaced with a generic, non-sensitive value. The methods and tools are unique per system or application and often data is transferred between the systems so decryption must happen to extract and load from one application to another. Enterprise tokenization will not only remedy unencrypted instances of customer information but provide uniform protection measures and centralize the protection of the data.    Responsibilities:  ? Lead in collecting requirements from business stakeholders thru Interviews, focus groups, facilitated workshops, brainstorming techniques and assist in the preparation of Requirements documentation and Requirements traceability matrix  ? Lead in scoping, requirement gathering & analysis with business and preparation of Impact analysis, Functional design and Technical Design from stores domain perspective.  ? Architect the solution for back end systems involving Inception, Story Creation, Story Sizing, Story huddle, Development, Unit testing, Release testing, and Deployment  ? Designed and developed utilizing Spring framework, MVC, HTML, CSS, JSP, Tomcat, Apache POI, JSON and AngularJS.  ? Designed the front-end applications and user interactive web pages using web technologies like AngularJS.  ? Used Angular.js as front-end technology by using MVC Framework in the development of the web application.  ? Created Angular JS Controllers, Services and used Angular JS Filters for filter functionality in search box and integrator functionalities.  ? Implemented modules into Node JS to integrate with designs and requirements.  ? Responsible for React JS components and worked with flux architecture.  ? Expertise in React JS framework and integrate them to Node.js server-side code.  ? Used MEAN (Mongo DB, Express, Angular, Node) Stack.  ? Developed REST API using Express Router middleware-based API's with MongoDB integration.  ? Manage Test strategy development, Test effort estimate, Test plan creation for System Integration, Conversion, Integration & Interoperability, Parallel, and User Acceptance testing Phases for Tokenization in Point-of-Sales and Mainframe Re-Hosting Projects(TOK/MRHT)  ? Manage Testing Onsite & Offshore Resources & Oversee Test cases design and Test execution activities for Tokenization and Mainframe Re-Hosting Projects (TOK/MRHT)  ? Manage data mining process and testing strategies for Technical Integration, System Integration, Functional, Integration & Interoperability, Regression, and Acceptance testing phases for all System related projects  ? Conduct test planning, execution and defects review meetings with SRP Business and Technical teams  ? Lead in Process Improvement activities for IT Testing Services Team  ? Manage Reporting for Test Development, Test Execution, and Project Closeout Phases    Environment:Eclipse, JAVA, JUnit, Oracle, SOAP UI, SQL, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, webpack, react, Flux, AngularJS, Web Services, Express, Node, Web Sphere, SQL, UNIX, JIRA. Sr. Java Developer/Analyst Visa INC May 2010 to January 2013 CDIMI (Member Interface) System is a web application designed to provide Visa members access to CDI data warehouse reports over the Internet. CDI uses Microstrategy as OLAP tool to develop and run the reports against the data warehouse, which holds the transaction data. This is a J2EE application, with the front end developed using Struts Framework. The database used is DB2. The application server used is WebSphere.  Responsibilities:  * Understanding business requirements.  * Detailed Design of the modules Profiles and Packages.  * Designed and implemented scripts for migration of database.  * Performance testing is done using JMeter.  * Implementation/Coding of the modules.  * UI Front end screens were developed using Struts.  * Developed CSS styles for UI screens.  * Written SQL statements for retrieving data fromDB2usingJDBC.  * Extensively used Spring Framework to configure the Business Tier and DAO Tier, specifically for the dependency injection.  * Used Spring Transaction management.  * Designed the modules using RAD.  * Used ClearCase as versioning tool, RAD as IDE.  * Managed off shore team and QA team for test case review/implementation.  * Responsible for deploying and maintaining the DEV, QA and UAT environment.  Environment: Java 1.6, Struts, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, AJX, JDBC, XML, Web Services, JAX RPC, Spring, WebSphere, Eclipse, Groovy, JMeter, DB2, Windows XP, Unix, ClearCase, Maven, Agile Methodologies. Sr. Java Developer/Analyst Fujitsu Computer Products of America (FCPA), CA December 2008 to April 2010 Description: FCPA is a subsidiary of Fujitsu Ltd and provides peripheral solutions around the world. It sells its hard disk drives, scanners, biometric products and many other networking solutions to its customers. It also provides IT-based business solutions for the global marketplace.  WebAging:The WebAging is a web-based portal that provides both internal AR professionals and customers' AP professionals with a secured interactive collaboration environment to enable sharing of invoices, credit memos, and other related documents. It integrates into an existing ERP system with a connector that synchronizes the everyday activities in the ERP System. It is developed to eliminate the hassle of manual communication in getting the issues resolved faster, minimize bad debts and optimize the cash flow. It lets the users focus on their core business, collection and thus increasing productivity.  Connector:The Connector is a tool designed to integrate with the FCPA IT products which help to parse the .xml or .cvs files which are extracted from the ERP system, which will be the replica of customer specific schemas on production server and is used to schedule the processes with the help of Quartz Scheduler to load the data.  Responsibilities:  * Participated actively in collecting business requirements from the users.  * Involved in production support for old standalone system.  * Understanding of old code which is designed in core java by using the concepts like Multithreading, AWT, Swings, Enumerations, and Annotations.  * Involved in designing and developing the application using Jakarta Struts framework.  * Developed JSP's&Servlets using Struts Framework.  * Worked on building reports using Jasper technology.  * Designed and developed the connector that gets the data from the ERP System, builds XML files and FTP/SFTPs it to other servers.  * Used XML parser APIs such as JAXP (SAX) and JAXB using XJC compiler in the web service's data marshalling process.  * Used XSD to determine interrelationship between the attributes and elements of an Xml objects.  * Designed the webservices layer of the application using Apache Axis. Designed the auditing module using backend triggers  * Used ORACLE10g for the database layer and involved in reviewing/updating the schema.  * Used Hibernate as Object Relational (OR) Mapping Tool for the backend data persistency.  * Used JavaScript for client side validations and implemented AJAX with jQuery, JavaScript for reducing data transfer between user and server.  * Used Inversion of control in Spring Framework for dependency injection.  * Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several Java/J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegates, MVC, Singleton, Data access object (DAO), Data Transfer Objects (DTO), and Value Object (VO).  * Configured & used Apache log 4j Logging framework for logging of trace and Auditing.  * Responsible for Code Maintenance of other products which are developed by off-shore team.  * For performance used Jprobeplug-in integrated with Eclipse.  * Responsible for Maintaining SVNRepository and JIRA bug tracker.  * Implemented JUnit, Selenium for white box testing.  * Responsible for deploying and maintaining the QA and UAT environment.  * Responsible for coordinating the work of off-shore developing and testing teams and keeping the manager up to date with the progress.  * Performed Code Reviews and mentor other developers.  Environment: JDK 1.5, WebLogic 10, Jakarta Struts, JSPs, Servlets, AJAX, jQuery, Hibernate, WebServices, Oracle10g, Log4J, Jasper Reports, SVN, JIRA, JProbe, JUnit, Quest Toad for Oracle, Cygwin. Sr. Developer Bank of America, NY July 2007 to December 2008 Description: Personal Income Tax Processing for NY State, Tax processing for New York City business tax e-filing, NY State Sales Tax the projects are comprised of processing services for manually prepared and software generated tax forms.  Processing services include, but are not limited to, the following functions: receipt, extraction, data preparation, remittance deposit, document and check scan/ index imaging, data capture, edit/validation/computation, taxpayer notification tracking system, delivery/transmission of data, image and report output. Electronic Filing Program (ELF) is comprised of file integration services for both the joint electronic filing program with the Internal Revenue Service and the New York State direct electronic filing program.  Responsibilities:  * Established schedules, mile stones and deliverables working with Project Manger  * Instrumental in finalizing deployment models, standards and delivery methodologies by closely working with client's Technical team  * Analyzed use cases and requirements and developed Design documentation such as Sequence and Class diagrams using rational developer suite.  * Created various interfaces using JAVA, XML and Struts for project/ modules involving NY City business tax e-filing project.  * Designed and deployed J2EE components using Websphere Application Server for NY City business tax e-filing project.  * Involved in using Object-Oriented methodologies, refactoring the code, data structures, multithreading, and developed project in a maven environment.  * Extensively used Hibernate API for object/ database mapping for NY City business tax e-filing project.  * Used GO4 design patterns like Factory method, Singleton.  * Integrated old database to Oracle.  * Developed SQL queries and developed object or database mapping using Hibernate API for NY City business tax efile.  * Developed various triggers and stored procedures for personal income tax processing project.  * Written PL/ SQL procedures for batch applications for Personal Income tax processing  * Initiated and using IBM Message Broker 5.1 for message flows between system and tax payer for NY city business e-filing  * Extensively used ANT scripts for developing project builds for various projects in LIBRIS  * Planned and scheduled integration and testing tasks for the team  * Developed web pages using Java, JSP, Servlets, JSF, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax and CSS to display the Payment details and status of each Payment, deployed them to Web Sphere Application Server.  * Used JUnit, JMeter for unit and load testing.  * Designed and developed various application naming few: HeaderRepair, ManualFormID, FullForm, ScanRepairAndRelease, Notifications.  * Extensively used SWINGs, Multithreading for PIT project.  Environment: Java 1.6, J2EE 1.3, XML, XSL, JSP, Servlets, JSF, Struts, Ant 1.5.4, Log4j, JAXP, multithreading, Ant, Web Services, IBM Websphere Application Server 5.1, IBM Message Broker 5.1 Apache2.0., Informix, SQL Server, PL/SQL, Oracle, Hibernate, UNIX, Windows XP,Floware workflow management server 6.0, Recostar ICR Engine (Intelligent Character Recognizer Engine), JUnit, JMeter, Eclipse 3.2, FloWare Administrator 6.0.2, PVCS, GIT version control system, MIGA migration assistant, Linux. Skills C++ (10+ years), HTML (8 years), JAVASCRIPT (8 years), CSS (8 years), AWT, Jquery (8 years), Angular7, React, Redux, Node.js