Salesforce Developer/Administrator Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Administrator Salesforce Developer/Administrator - Markmonitor San Andreas, CA • 9 years of experience in IT industry, which includes 7 years of extensive experience as Salesforce.com CRM, Force.com platform using Visual force an Apex as Developer and Administrator and 2 years of experience as JAVA Developer.  • Experienced in all phases of SDLC with proficiency in Requirement gathering, Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Implementation and Maintenance phases.  • Proficiency in administrative tasks like creating Profiles, Roles, Users, Workflows & Approvals, Reports & Dashboards, Developed Formula fields, Validation rules, Email generation.  • Extensive work experience in designing custom objects, custom fields, Page layouts, custom Tabs, custom reports, report folders, report extractions to various formats Snapshots, Dashboards.  • Experience in Batch Processing (Batch Apex) with scheduling (Manual & Automated).  • Experience in Salesforce Integration for Data Integration/Synchronization/Replication from Sales force to external systems like Oracle and SQL server.  • Extensive experience in developing APEX classes, Triggers, Visual Force pages, Controllers, writing Workflows, Force.com API, REST API, SOAP API.  • Experience in Data Migration using Import Wizard, Workbench and other integration tools like Apex Data Loader, Data Loader.io, Excel Connector, SFDC Data Export, Mass Delete.  • Strong working experience with various salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Opportunities, Products and Price books, Quotes, Cases, Leads, Campaigns, Reports and Dashboards.  • Experience implementing OWDs, Role Hierarchies and Sharing Rules for system security design.  • Experience in using the Workbench tool for SOQL queries, SOSL and the REST Explorer.  • Experience in Apex coding for the implementation of complex business logic with in Governor Limits.  • Experience in SDLC Methodologies like waterfall, Iterative, Agile (SCRUM).  • Experience in Force.com sites development using Visualforce, jQuery, Angular Js, custom labels, AJAX toolkit and CSS.  • Proficient in dealing with the functionalities related to the Service cloud and Sales Cloud and Marketing cloud.  • Experience on Lightning components and Lightning Applications.  • Worked on lightning for sales cloud service on Leads, Task, Activities.  • Created custom components using Aura definition bundle and flexi pages in lightening based on the requirement, in backend we used triggers and handler classes.  • Experience on Lightning components and Lightning Applications.  • Has done the many integrations and used the Salesforce Marketing cloud connector V5 to connect to multiple salesforce orgs.  • Create and maintain email reporting dashboards, conduct testing and provide test results to Marketing Team.  • Expert in developing User Interface (UI) applications and professional web applications using JavaScript, JSP, XUL, HTML /DHTML, XHTML, jQuery, CSS, and Ajax.  • Experience in doing deployments using Force.com IDE, Eclipse, Change sets, Ant migration, SVG migrations.  • Proficiency in assigning Tasks, Events, Attachments, Documents.  • Synchronized ETL flows between various databases and report servers.  • Understanding of Salesforce Change Management.  • A strong appetite for application and learning new technologies with a positive attitude coupled with solid interpersonal communication skills. A good team player with soft skills.  • Monitoring / tracking projects with respect to time over-runs to ensure timely execution of projects.  • Ability to adapt and learn quickly, Self-Motivated and a Team Player. Work Experience Salesforce Developer/Administrator Markmonitor - San Francisco, CA February 2018 to Present Description: Markmonitors is a complete CRM application which provides various services to employees and dealers of Markmonitors. This service application provides an interface for employees and retailers as well as employee with their departments too and address the dealer's problems by providing the solutions by the employee team. Dealer will login and file a case. The complete life cycle of the issue will be tracked over Markmonitor Form Application.  Responsibilities:  • Involved with various business user groups for gathering the requirements for Salesforce implementation and documented the Business and Software Requirements  • Work on customization of standard objects like Lead, Account, Contact and Opportunity.  • Perform day to day User Management on SFDC Org by configuring Sharing Rules, Permission Sets, Roles and Profiles.  • Created Custom objects, Custom Fields, Validation Rules, and Formula fields  • Created Custom login VF page for the dealers to access the application.  • Creating Workflow Rules, Tasks, Email Alerts and components to suit to the needs of the application.  • Worked on Assigning creating Roles Hierarchy, Profiles and Security setup within the organization.  • Implemented Case Assignment Rules to direct the case to appropriate group such as Stories and PCS Central Support.  • Created Page Layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on records.  • Involved in designing, development and Testing of UI Applications using VF Pages and Apex classes, Apex Triggers as per requirement.  • Involved in Service Cloud, Sales Cloud, community cloud Application Setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization.  • Worked on community cloud to gain deeper relationships with customers, provide better service by enabling customers to find information and assist each other online. Connected to external channel partners, agents to accelerate deals.  • Created Triggers for email update for any new offer is released and Developed Batch apex along with combination of schedule apex to reduce the data for space utility.  • Used the sandbox for development, testing and code migration to Production.  • Worked on Eclipse IDE with Force.com Plug-in for writing business logic in Apex programming language.  • Created custom settings for seasonal offers like spring, summer etc.,  • Used data loader and data loader.io to store data into the database.  • Worked on Agile environment, in this we developed High-value features and delivered more quickly with short cycles.  • Updating of email and automated email will be send to the reps if any issue is raised by reps.  • Written Apex Test Classes for unit testing to ensure at least 75% of code coverage is met.  Environment: Conga Composer, Workflows, Rest, Soap, Apex, Visual Force, Triggers, SOQL, HTML, Java Script, Web Services, Data loader, Security Controls, Force.com IDE, MS Access. Salesforce Developer Elo Touch Solutions - Richardson, TX April 2015 to November 2017 Description:  Elo Touch Solutions is a premier global supplier of touch solutions including touch screen components, touch monitors, and all-in-one (AiO) touch computers. Elo touch solutions meet the diverse requirements of digital signage, retail, point-of-sale (POS), hospitality, medical/healthcare IT, industrial, and consumer. This is a complete CRM application which provides End-to -End solutions to user need and where the users are advised.    Responsibilities:  • Extensive SFDC skills in configuration, customization and development using Service Cloud, Sales cloud, Marketing cloud.  • Implementing Enhancements in Velocity & Salesforce.  • Worked on Mobile development, created customer and partner portals  • Made new feature enhancements on Service cloud, Sales Cloud and Marketing cloud using Lightning and vlocity.  • Experienced in Force.com Apex Classes, Apex Triggers, Integration, Visual force and Force.com API.  • Developed Scheduled classes by implementing Batchable, Schedulable interfaces to process large volumes of data.Apex Batch.  • Enabled Aura Framework and added Aura Attributes/Handlers for Events / Logic & Interactions  • Experience on Lightning components and Lightning Applications.  • Developed lightning Apps using Lightning Components and made them compatible with salesforce1 mobile app.  • Worked on vlocity for sales cloud service and Marketing cloud for user friendly UI.  • Experience in working with salesforce.com sandbox and production environments.  • Integrated Salesforce with 3rd party systems using Web services REST/SOAP API and app exchange apps.  • Experience in capturing, analyzing and gathering the requirements for Salesforce.com implementation.  • Experience in working on source control tools like GIT.  • Resolve high priority technical issues within the time frame and try to deliver them in early deployments.  • Triaging ticket and looking over ongoing maintenance activities.  • Manage a project plan through the systems delivery lifecycle for the implementation of enhancements and user stories.  • Coordinate with offshore resources and discussing with them about Defect Fixes.  • Liaison between onshore, offshore POCs and client.  Environment: Salesforce.com Platform, Lightning, Apex Language, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), vlocity , Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Reports, Email Services, Sharing rules, Security Controls, Eclipse IDE. Salesforce Developer C Prudential Financial - Newark, NJ June 2013 to March 2015 Description: Group that includes The Prudential Insurance Company of America, one of the largest life insurance companies in the US; headquartered in Newark, NJ; other activities: mutual funds, annuities, real estate brokerage franchises, relocation services etc.  Responsibilities:  • Interaction with SCRUM Master/Business Analyst regarding new requirements and understanding the business requirement.  • Participated in requirements gathering and creating functional requirements for ELO.  • Worked on Quote-to- Cash solutions using Apttus CPQ and worked on conga composer.  • Configured products, pricelists, pricelist items, categories using Apttus CPQ and Used Constraint rules, price rule  sets, attributes, and feature set.  • Constructed condition/action rule to target quote and line level fields Using CPQ (Apttus).  • Worked with field and page layout customization for the standard objects like Account, contacts and Leads.  • Involved in using Marketo tool for email marketing  • Created Custom VF pages based on client requirement  • Involved in querying Salesforce tables using SOQL & SOSL queries using Force.com  • Creating Workflow Rules, Tasks, Email Alerts and components to suit to the needs of the application.  • Involved in designing, development and Testing of UI Applications using VF Pages and Apex classes, Apex Triggers as per requirement.  • Created custom settings for tooling database.  • Worked on Sales cloud and Service Cloud and Marketing cloud.  • Worked on Mobile development, created customer and partner portals  • Worked on Chatter, App-exchange applications.  • Involved in Design and build web & mobile interfaces on the Force.com platform using Visualforce, Apex  for providing good user interface for the Users.  • Used Force.com web services API to create, update, retrieve and delete records from SOAP and REST based web services using java.  • Made new feature enhancements on Service cloud and Sales Cloud console view and developed some Visualforce components.  • Created Lightning Component Tabs and Visualforce Tabs.  • Created custom components using Aura definition bundle and flexi pages in Lightning based on the requirement, in backend we used Triggers and handler classes.  • Hands on experience on Salesforce Lightning for Customizing Reports and Dashboards for business use.  • Develop re-usable UI components with the Salesforce Lightning Component Framework.  • Hands On Migration Tools - ANT Migration tool, Eclipse, Workbench and ChangeSets.  • used Mulesoft as integration tool for connecting Saas and enterprise applications in the cloud and on-premise.  • Experience in all the phases of ETL such as Extraction, Cleaning, Transformation and Loading using Informatica and efficiently worked on Data Warehouse Full Life Cycle Projects for Banking and Insurance Domains.  • Good Data Warehousing ETL experience using Informatica Power Center (Workflow Manager, Workflow Monitor, Source Analyzer, Warehouse Designer, Transformation Developer, Mapping Designer, Informatica Server, Repository Manager).  • Integrated Salesforce with 3rd party systems using Web services REST/SOAP API and app exchange apps.  • Written Apex Test Classes for unit testing to ensure at least 75% of code coverage is met.  • Deployed Apex using Force.com IDE, Force.com Migration Tool and Web Services API.  • Created Time dependent workflows as per the requirement.  • Created e-mail templates and used them in workflow & approval processes.  • Responsible for providing object level/record level/field level security by creating Roles and profiles.  • Experienced creating permission sets and also sharing rules according to the requirement.  • Worked in Agile environment, by breaking projects down into little bits of user functionality called Userstories, prioritizing them, and then continuously delivering them in short two week cycles, worked on multiple concurrent projects.  Environment: Salesforce.com, Process builder, journey Builder, Apptus CPQ, Quote2Cash, Workflow, Rest, Soap, Marketo, Email2Case, Apex, Visual Force, Salesforce Lightning, Triggers, Batch Apex, Schedule Apex, SOQL, SOSL, HTML, Java Script, Web Services, Sandbox and Data loader, Security Controls, Ant tool, third party tools like EchoSign, Dupe catcher. Salesforce Developer /Administrator US Wire & Cable Corporation - Newark, NJ January 2012 to May 2013 Description Cable Systems Corporation is one of the leading companies of media and telecommunication. Its operations include full site of advanced digital television, high speed internet service and valuable local media and programming properties. They use salesforce.com to maintain the effectively manage clients, client's database and workflow of the business process.  Responsibilities:  • Performed the roles of Salesforce.com Developer and Administrator in the organization.  • Created custom objects, tabs, fields, page layout as per business requirements.  • Hands on experience on Sales cloud and Service cloud  • Developed Triggers, Visual force pages/controllers, Workflows, Validation rules and Formulas.  • Used Zapier for avoiding automatically cross workflows.  • Integrated with JIRA tool  • Used Salesforce WSDL to integrate with other applications, and use Rest API to make inbound and outbound calls.  • Involved in developing automated e-mail service.  • Developed UI using HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, CSS and JSP.  • Developed Custom VF pages and Apex classes and have also written various visual force email templates and Implemented Bootstrap Frame work for Custom VF Pages for Optimization.  • Developed Scheduled classes by implementing Batchable, Schedulable interfaces to process large volumes of data.Apex Batch.  • Designed Account Management, Lead Management, Opportunity Management and Case Management  • Implemented SOQL & SOSL for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Migrate existing data from legacy systems, in and outbound using Data Loader and Web Services.  • Developed web services using Salesforce.com Web services API to provide data for third party clients.  • Developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Created Profiles and Roles and performed security and sharing settings to them.  • Developed new Reports & Dashboards.  • Implemented Security access to the user profiles by creating Object level security, field level security and record level security.  Environment: Apex Classes, Triggers, Data Loader, Rest, Soap HTML, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, SOQL, SOSL, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, VF Pages, Java Script, Web Services, Eclipse IDE Plug-in. Salesforce Developer /Administrator State Farm - Bloomington, IL September 2010 to December 2011 Responsibilities:  • Worked on creating lead forms, custom tabs, managing work flow and assigning tasks based on the user  requirements.  • Experienced on working with apex on force.com and creating triggers and Apex classes and work flow rules in Approval process  • Used standard controllers, custom controllers and extension controllers.  • Created lead foams, campaigns to lead foams, assigning task and managing work flows.  • Developed triggers and apex classes using apex test classes with minimum code coverage.  • Responsible for dealing with user issues like resetting or modifying the data and for creating the validation rules  for email and other custom fields.  • Implemented user profiles and security setting.  • Worked on data migration using data loader from excel sheets.  • Responsible for querying sales force tables using SOQL and SOSL.  • Designed various HTML Email templates for Auto-Response to customers.  • Supported the data migration activities for migration of data from various business sources with the support  ofsalesforce.com.  • Implemented different levels of security to hide the important information from the users.  • Worked on Encryption of custom fields with the help of master encryption key to encrypt the data.  • Developed project in agile environment and played role of Scrum Master.  • Worked onSalesforce.com Application to Setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs  of the organization.  Environment: Salesforce.com CRM, Apex, Visualforce, IBM Cast Iron, Sales, Service cloud, Communities, Workflows, Approval Process, Sandbox, Data loader, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, CSS, HTML, XML, AJAX, Force.com plug-in for Eclipse IDE, Windows. Java Developer State of ND - Bismarck, ND January 2009 to August 2010 Description: TD Bank is one of the largest banks in the U.S. offering major Credit and Banking Services to both corporate organizations and individuals. The Project is to maintain the Banking information of the Customers using Java & Salesforce.com.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in various stages of the SDLC using Waterfall development process.  • Responsible for developing user interfaces using HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, JSP,Angular JS and Servlets.  • Responsible for developing spring controller classes, Command classes and configured dispatche-server.xml for Spring MVC.  • Using ApplicationContext.xml created the dependency Injection for the Action classes using Spring IoC.  • Responsible for achieving object relational mapping by configuring the deployment descriptors in Hibernate.  • Responsible for writing stored procedures, queries using PL/SQL to process the data on DB2 database.  • Involved in performing regression testing, unit testing using JUnit.  • Used WSDL and SOAP messages for getting credit card information from third party and used Web Services (JAX-WS) for exchange rate calculations.  • Responsible for testing of application on various levels like integration and System testing by utilizing various methodologies.  • Worked on Enterprise JavaBeans is service-side model that encapsulate the business logic of an application.  • Developed application code using Core Java and J2EE (Servlets, XML) in Eclipse tool  • Created SQL queries and Stored Procedures for CRUD (Create, Read, Update and Delete) operations on database.  • Used Ajax in one of the modules to do asynchronous changes to the pages.  • Worked with Struts front-end utilizing the Struts tiles framework and Struts Validation Framework to implement the GUI interface    Environment: Core Java, Hibernate, Spring MVC, JDBC, JSP, JQuery, XML, CSS, AJAX, Angular JS,Maven, WebSphere Application Server 6.1, JUnit, log4j, RSA, SOAP- RPC, DB2.