Sr. Salesforce Developer Sr. Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Salesforce Developer - Fannie Washington, DC • A salesforce certified professional around 9+ years of overall experience as IT professional with strong Object-Oriented Analysis, Design, Programming and Project Management skills of experience as Salesforce Lightning Developer, Administrator and Support Specialist with domain experience in Financial, Banking, Retail and Non-profit Organizations in Software Development and support of applications.  • Strong IT experience in Software Development that includes all phases of Requirement Analysis, Design, Development, UAT and maintenance of Product / business applications including Cloud Based, Web Applications, Windows Applications, Web Services, Windows Services, Client-Server applications.  • Worked closely with Business Users to enable business processes using SFDC • Experience working across various SFDC implementations covering Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Call center, Chatter & App-exchange applications.  • Experience in SFDC development using Apex classes and Triggers, Visual Force, Force.com IDE, SOQL, SOSL • Proficiency in SFDC Administrative tasks like creating Profiles, Roles, Users, Page Layouts, Email Services, Approvals, Workflows, Reports, Dashboards, Tasks and Events.  • In-depth experience in CRM business processes like Forecasting, Campaign Management, Lead Management, Pipeline Management, Order Management, Account Management, Case Management.  • Extensive experience in analyzing business requirements, entity relationships and converting to Salesforce custom objects, lookup relationships, junction objects, master-detail relationships.  • Experience in integrating Salesforce with ERP applications like SAP using Informatics-on-Demand.  • Extensive experience in designing Custom Formula Fields, Field Dependencies, Validation Rules, Work Flows, and Approval Processes for automated alerts, field updates, and Email generation according to application requirements • Experience in migrating data from legacy systems to Salesforce using Apex Data Loader.  • Hands on experience with Apex Language, Apex Trigger, Apex Class, Apex Test Methods, Apex Web Service, Visualforce Pages, Visualforce Components & Controllers • Configured and maintained user security permissions in compliance with organizational needs • Proficiency in Object Oriented Languages like C++,C# Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets and other Java technologies • Experience in web technologies like HTML, XML, CSS, JSP, JavaScript, WSDL, and SOAP • Experience in databases such as SQL Server, Oracle and MySQL • Excellent communication and inter-personal skills, accustomed to working in both large and small team environments.  • Strong knowledge & experience working in teams implementing Agile Methodologies.  • Excellent communication and inter-personal skills, accustomed to working in both large and small team environments • Worked on batch jobs replication processes, CICS transactions, building a database engine using JAVA, also worked with SOA tool/SOAP UI tool for online API's and also well versed on management tools like HP Quality Center. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Salesforce Developer Fannie - Mae, WA February 2018 to Present The Federal National Mortgage Association, commonly known as Fannie Mae, is a United States government-sponsored enterprise and, a publicly traded company    Responsibilities: • Interacted with Business users for requirements gathering, analysis and development.  • Involved in Salesforce.com application setup and customization activities to match the functional needs of the organization.  • Configured and customized sales cloud, service cloud, Standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Opportunities, Products, OpportunityLineItems, Leads, Campaign, Events, Tasks, Cases.  • Created Custom Objects, Tabs, validation rules, Components with respect to business requirements.  • Written customization code using Apex Classes, Visualforce pages, used Visualforce components like PageBlock, CommandButtons, ActionSupport, ActionFunction.  • Worked with SOQL, SOSL queries with Governor Limitations to store and download the data from Salesforce.com platform database.  • Created relationships among objects using Lookup and Master-detail relationships.  • Created multiple Profiles, Roles, Page Layouts, Record Types and configured the Permissions/Permission sets based on the Organization hierarchy requirements.  • Developed Custom tabs, validation rules, Approval Processes and Auto-Response for automating business logic.  • Created workflow rules and defined associated Tasks, time triggered tasks, Email alerts, Field Updates to implement business logic.  • Developed several Custom Reports Dashboards which are used by Business user and Management for reporting and setup analytic snapshot to dump data on regular basis.  • Generated stubs in salesforce from the WSDL of external application.  • Written apex REST web service classes for inbound calls to salesforce.  • Implemented Data Loader through the Command Line Interface to extract the data from database to run at scheduled times.  • Provided ongoing salesforce.com maintenance and administration services including periodic data cleansing, custom objects, workflow.  • Developed Email templates in Text, HTML and Visualforce for setting up email alerts for auto response and data updates.  • Embedded Javascript and JQuery in the visualforce pages.  • Implemented custom Cascading Style Sheets CSS for visualforce pages.  • Written Apex Test classes to Unit test Apex classes before Production deployment.  • Created and maintained the documentation for Design, Migration and Integration.  • Deployed applications from sandbox to sandbox/production using ant migration tool, Eclipse and Change Set.    Environment: Salesforce.com CRM, Apex Classes, Controllers, Triggers, Visualforce pages, Custom Objects, Tabs, Email Templates, Workflow Approvals, Sharing rules, Reports, Dashboards, Eclipse, Force.com IDE, Salesforce outlook connector, Web service, SOAP, REST, HTML, CSS, Java script, Windows7. Sr. Salesforce Lightning Developer Charter Communications - Charlotte, NC June 2016 to March 2018 Charter Communications is America's fastest growing TV, internet and voice company. Spectrum provides the highest quality service with superior entertainment and communications products. TWCBC Ethernet Services integrates Salesforce with a system called EXPO. EXPO delivers Ethernet order information to the Granite circuit database and to the National Sales Biller. This integration requires that Ethernet Service orders are created on separate Ethernet enabled Billing Accounts.    Responsibilities: • Involved on developing Salesforce Lightning Apps, Components, Controllers and Events.  • Upgraded some Apps from Salesforce Classic to Lightning Experience to develop rich user interface and better interaction of pages.  • Good hands on practice with the new Lightning System Design which helps to quickly and easily create modern enterprise apps using Lightning App Builder and Lightning Components Performed.  • Experience in modifying Visualforce pages to be supported in Lightning Experience and good understanding of lightning mode and its features.  • Integrated salesforce data with external systems by writing salesforce REST Web Services for Inbound classes and used Http Request methods to call external application REST API endpoint.  • Used HTTP Callout using JSON to fetch records/data from other system and display them on the fly in the Visualforce Page each time the page opens.  • Designed, developed and deployed Apex Triggers, Apex Classes considering governor limits and various other components as per the client and application requirements.  • Developed VisualForce Pages using standard/custom controllers and extensions as applicable.  • Performed the role of Salesforce Developer in the organization.  • Technical Knowledge about Salesforce lightning schema builder, process builder, app builder, components and lightning connect.  • Used Sales Cloud to get the customer information together in an Integrated platform that incorporates marketing, lead generation, sales, customer service and provides access to applications through the AppExchange.  • Worked on Jitterbit to automate the processes of reporting, Data Mapping and connecting it to partner's application.  • Worked on various salesforce standard objects like Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Cases, Roles, Opportunities, and Products.  • Used SOQL & SOSL with consideration to Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Implemented the requirements on salesforce.com platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse.  • Created appropriate data conditioning templates and field mapping files for data loading.  • Implemented complex security & sharing model for orgs with 500+ salesforce users.  • Worked on User's Profiles, Workflow & Approvals, Permission Sets, Roles, Groups, Queues, and Sharing Settings etc.  • Experience in developing salesforce Lightning Apps, Components, Controllers, and Events.  • Developed Lightning UI using AJAX, JavaScript, JQuery and HTML.  • Created custom reports to track the cases, assets to be available to different levels in the organization based on their profiles.  • Implemented Communities in salesforce for the customers.  • Written apex unit test classes for code coverage of apex classes and triggers to promote code to production and implemented salesforce apex annotations like isTest, seeAllData • Sound knowledge of Customer Support tools - desk.com, Service Cloud, Marketing Cloud with exact target, Web Analytics • Working exposure to Demand Tool, Financial Force, Salesforce Communities, Mobile Workforce, Salesforce1 Platform    Environment: Saleforce.com, Apex Classes, Controller Classes, Triggers, Visualforce, Salesforce.com Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Page layouts, Email Services, SOQL, SOSL, Sandbox, Force.com IDE. Salesforce Consultant Phillips 66 - Bartlesville, OK July 2014 to May 2016 Phillips 66 is an American multinational energy company headquartered in Houston, Texas. The company is engaged in producing natural gas liquids (NGL), Aviation fuels, Motor fuels, Lubricants and petrochemicals.    Responsibilities: • Created a complete Case Management System using Lightning Components, Controllers, Helper Methods, CSS, Bootstrap and JavaScript.  • Create a user interface in Lightning using Aura components, CSS, Bootstrap for a user to enter case details and submit in to Salesforce.  • Created a complete file upload utility in Lightning, Apex classes and SOQL so that users can attach files in the form and upload them to Salesforce case record.  • Create a lookup utility using Lightning, Apex classes and SOSL to lookup Users and add them as a Case Team to the case record.  • Used Salesforce Lightning Inspector to debug the lightning components during the development process.  • Used Salesforce1 simulator during the development to test if the lightning components works properly on the mobile device.  • Created Apex methods for the lightning controller and helper methods to perform DML operations on the case records.  • Created Test methods to make sure the code coverage of apex class and triggers is above 90%.  • Created various email templates based on various stages of case progression.  • Created triggers to send out emails to the case owner and case team along with the attachments after the case record is created.  • Developed Apex Classes, Apex Triggers, Workflows and Approval Processes for various functional needs in the application.  • Created various html email templates for sending Email notification using Journey Builder.  • Designed, and deployed the Custom objects, Custom tabs, validation rules, Workflow Rules, Auto-Response Rules, Page layouts, Components, Visual Force Pages to suit to the needs of the application.  • Used Data Loader for insert, update and bulk import or export of data from Salesforce.com SObjects.  • Used SOQL & SOSL with consideration to Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Configured Email Sends and Journeys in Salesforce Marketing Cloud • Created Custom Landing Pages using bootstrap, html and content builder Created Mobile and PC responsive Email Templates and Landing Pages • Maintained data cleanliness and accuracy by adding various Custom validation rules and Custom formulas.  • Created workflow rules to send out email alerts and assign the cases to queues.  • Provided ongoing salesforce.com maintenance support and administration services.    Environment: Lightning, Apex, Visualforce, Triggers, Workflows, SOQL, SOSL, Data Loader, App Builder, Case Management, Email Alerts, Force.com IDE, Developer Console, Java Script, HTML, CSS, Salesforce Apex Data Loader, HTML, Java Script, Dashboards, Security Controls, Custom Objects, Apex Classes/Controllers, Workflow and Approvals, Reports, Force.com Eclipse IDE. Salesforce Lead Developer Mars Drinks - Hackettstown, NJ February 2013 to July 2014 Petcare (Franklin, Tennessee), Wm. Wrigley Jr. Company (Chicago, Illinois), Food (Rancho Dominguez, California), Drinks (West Chester, Pennsylvania), and Symbioscience (Germantown, Maryland), the company's life sciences division. Mars Drinks also produces coffee and the equipment used to make it.  Responsibilities: • Involved in various activities of the project, like development meeting, requirement gathering, and analyzing requirements, documenting the functional and nonfunctional requirements.  • Worked with the user group for requirement gathering throughout the planning and implementation and designed the data model to transform the existing business process to salesforce.  • Designed, developed and deployed the Custom Apps, Custom objects, Custom Fields, Custom buttons, Page layouts, Custom tabs, Components, Visual Force Pages, Apex classes to suit to the needs of the application.  • Attended daily meetings, weekly scrum meetings and sprint review meetings.  • Developed Apex Classes, Apex Triggers, Workflows and Approval Processes for various functional needs in the application.  • Created various Visual force/html email templates for Email Alerts using triggers and approval process for the clients and customers.  • Maintained data cleanliness and accuracy by adding various Custom validation rules and Custom formulas.  • Worked on Test Cases by developing Test Classes to meet the required Code Coverage in salesforce.  • Used Streaming API to implement push and publish service as per the client requirement.  • Created Profiles, Roles and Permission Sets for all the users in the organization.  • Worked on Data Mapping using excel sheets to map all the existing fields from Client and Mainframe Applications to Salesforce.  • Worked with SQL Server management studio to execute complex SQL queries using client and salesforce schema • Worked with Data Loader to update, insert and delete records using excel sheets as a part of the data migration.  • Used XML based Web Services using SOAP/WSDL for common interface across all internal and external application and users.  • Worked on the UI layer coding JSP with HTML, DHTML, CSS Java Script, Jquery.  • Worked on Data cleaning with excel sheets to avoid duplicate records using External ID.  • Used the Sandbox for testing the developed App after migrating some test data from client application.  • Used Salesforce Developer Console to execute apex codes and SOQL Queries to verify Salesforce data.  • Provided ongoing salesforce.com maintenance support and administration services including periodic data cleansing and fixing runtime issues.    Environment:Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Triggers, Chatter, Data loader, Salesforce.com Data Loader, Force.com API, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Batch Apex Interface, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls. Java Developer NJM Insurance Group - West Trenton, NJ June 2011 to January 2013 Responsibilities: • Analyzed the requirements based on business data and user requirements.  • Worked on developing a web application based on Java.  • Worked on different design patterns.  • Responsible for requirement gathering along with business analyst.  • Responsible for creating and updating applications related understanding documents • Actively involved in writing Test scripts and doing System testing for JRE and IE8 browser compatibility for my applications.  • Developed SOAP web services using Apache CXF and Axis2 framework and deployed on Tomcat • Developed JAX-WS web services and deployed on Web sphere Application Server • Actively participated in weekly and monthly status& business user meetings.  • Involved in conducting meetings with Pfizer business users for understanding gaps in the CTO applications.  • Creating programs to use JMS and message queuing to process requests.  • Involved in the Development and Deployment of Stateless Session beans.  • Generated deployment descriptors for EJBs using XML.  • Developed GUI related changes using JSP, HTML, AJAX, JQUERY and client validations using Java • Used JDBC to communicate with database.  • Involved in writing Managed Beans/Controller logic for assigned modules.  • Responsible for developing the functionalities as per use case documents.  • Responsible for writing navigation-rules and configuring managed beans in Faces-config.xml file.  • Implemented Java documentation for complete application • Deployed the application on Tomcat server at client locations.  • Used SVN as version control system source code and other documents.  Environment: Java 1.4, JSP, HTML, JSON, Java Script, AJAX, JQUERY, Struts, Springs, Apache Tomcat,  Eclipse, MySQL Java Developer Cognizant - Teaneck, NJ August 2009 to May 2011 Description: ognizant is an American multinational corporation that provides IT services, including digital, technology, consulting, and operations services. It is headquartered in Teaneck, New Jersey, United States. Cognizant is included in the NASDAQ-100 and the S&P 500 indices.    Responsibilities: • Involved in requirements gathering, analysis, design and testing of the complete system.  • Implemented the presentation layer using JSP, HTML, JQUERY, JAVASCRIPT, AJAX and CSS.  • Configured Tomcat Apache for deployment.  • Responsible for understanding the requirements and existing functionality of the system by communicatingwith business analyst.  • Responsible for understanding the business process by communicating with business users.  • Involved in developing the functionality as per use case documents for various modules of the application • Responsible for writing ANTScripts for building the entire web application.  • Performed unit testing using JUnit.Developed EJB components encapsulating business logic.  • Involved in Configuring web.xml and struts-config.xml according to the struts framework • Used SVN as source control.Developed and deployed applications using WebLogic 7.x with JBuilder as IDE tool.  • Used JDBC to connect and perform operations on database • Designed and created various tables required for the project in MySql database.  • Used Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions and debug information.  • Developed the application using Eclipse.  Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets 3, HTML, JavaScript, jquery, ajax, Struts, spring, CSS, XML, Education Bachelor's in dddddd kkkkkkk State diagrams Skills UNIX. (Less than 1 year), Windows XP (Less than 1 year) Links http://Force.com Additional Information Operating Systems Windows XP/Vista/7, UNIX.