Sr.AndroidiOS developer Sr.AndroidiOS <span class="hl">developer</span> Sr.AndroidiOS developer - AT&T Elkview, WV • Over 12+ years in Android application development and Having Experience in Developing Java-based applications.  • Good experience working among technologies such as Xamarin. iOS, Xamarin. Android and Xamarin Cross-Platform applications. Experience in Native Components of Android applications: Activities, Services, Broadcast Receiver, Content Provider, Web Services, Fragments,andSupport Libraries to create high quality and stable applications.  • Designed the Cross-Platform Application architecture by using Xamarin Forms and PCL components using Xamarin studio.  • Experience in Android UI toolkit and Layout Managers. Proficient in the Android application framework. Experienced with Android SDK tools.  • Proficient in Android applications development involving User Interface development, Notifications, Adapters, Content Provider, Services,and Telephony Manager.  • Experience with XCode, Interface Builder, Instruments, Mobility Tester and Static Analyzer including development, debugging, profiling, optimizing, and build process.  • Experience working with APNS (Apple Push Notification Service) - pop-up alerts, badges, action sheet and integration of various social networking APIs like Facebook, Twitter into the application.  • Experience in working with web technologies like HTML5, CSS, Ajax, jQuery,andJavaScript.  • Able tobe handlingJSON and XML HTTP requests from web services and parsing responses using native implementations and third-party libraries.  • Proficient with common Android Framework API's (Location, Camera, Scanner, Notifications, Maps) and Core Java.  • Developed elegant user interfaces with rich features and worked on Android open source projects (AOSP) and OTA package tools and Knowledge on multimedia frameworks such as Audio and Video frameworks.  • Expertise building Native Android Applications using (ANDROID SDK, NDK) as well as Hybrid applications using (Apache Cordova, Phone Gap) Platforms.  • Designed GUI and interfaces with services for mobile applications and worked on OOD (Object Oriented Designs).  • Extensively worked on memory leaks, push notifications, multiple screen support, data offline usage, accounts and sync on Android.  • Expertise in Android application development using Eclipse IDE, Android SDK, Android emulator,and ADT plug-in  • Experience with audio features, video features, graphics design, interactive design,and animation.  • Expertise in Object Oriented Architecture, Design and Programming from design to implementation.  • Expertise in Data Structure, Multithreading, Collections, Exception handling,andSerialization.  • Experience in working with Google Maps API, GPS Location Data, Google Play Services API, Google Analytics, Google Cloud Messaging API, Location Manager,and Notification Manager.  • Worked on various Relational databases like Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL,and DB2.  • Created enterprise architecture/business functionality using Java, design pattern and OOPs concepts.  • Skilled in developing APIs for middleware Framework modules for mobile platforms using C, C++,andJava.  • Experienced in developing consumer ready Native Android Applications Hybrid Mobile Applications Android/iOS/Mobile Web usingPhoneGap, JavaScript, jQuery.  • Have hands-on experience in the complete project life cycle, with domain knowledge in Mobile Application Development and Web application development.  • Knowledge of project life cycle for web applications using various methodologies such as the Waterfall model  • Designed Interfaces and GUI with services for mobile applications, Asynchronous programming in Xamarin. Forms and Xamarin. Android.  • Experienced in working on agile operations process and tools area (Code review, unit test automation, Build & Release automation, Environment, Service, Incident and Change Management).  • Experience in architecture design, development,and implementation of software applications and testing.  • A self-driven, goal oriented, customer, focused software professional with proven ability to successfully work in all phases of the Software development lifecycle. Work Experience Sr.AndroidiOS developer AT&T July 2018 to Present Description:AT&T Inc. is an American multinational conglomerate holding company. It is the world's largest telecommunications company, the second largest provider of mobile telephone services, and the largest provider of fixed telephone services in the United States through AT&T Communications.  Responsibilities:  • Followed Agiletesting methodology, participated in daily SCRUM meetings and testing each SPRINT deliverables.  • Used Objective-C to make the entire application, Swift for some application and Cocoa frameworks.  • Worked on core data for database integration and core animation to create custom widgets in this application.  • Involved in developing a cross-platform mobile application which can run on both iOS and Windows platforms from the architecture of the application to implementing it by using XamarinStudio.  • Worked on threading and performance tuning to make the application to run faster.  • Constructing HTTP requests, fetching server response and parsing feed wherever required.  • Worked on Appium and Automationtestingto test the user interface of the mobile application.  • Used Jenkins plugin which adds the ability to call XCode command line tools to automate build and packaging iOSapplications, worked with networking framework MKNetworkKit.  • Used bottom line responsibility to develop coding in the project for this current application.  • Worked on NF Networking and NSURL Sessions for this application as per the requirement from the client.  • Developing the App with Swift/Objective-C programming language and Apple's latest tools by following MVC architecture and ARC memory management system.  • Implemented SQLite databases to monitor shipments.  • Implemented customized web view component to load an SWF file and HTML data.  • Implemented the required GUI by making modifications to the XML files.  • Integrated location-based services using Google Maps API to display locations of the nearest stores.  • Handling XML data using efficient parsing techniques such as DOM parser.  • Worked on debugging the application using Log cat, DDMS.  • Used Javascript in the backend process to develop and to test the application with Phone Gap  • Worked on HTML, CSS to develop the front end of the mobile application and used JAVA script to develop the backend functionalities of the UI in this IonicFramework.  • Built Hybrid applications with Ionic Framework, Xamarin in both iOS XCode and Android Studio.  • Displayed the test classes and test methods in a hierarchical list by using the test navigation on the source code components of all test bundles in the project.  • Completed a relatively simple work-in-progress written with Xamarin iOS native tools (not Xamarin Forms).  • Implemented the NDK for the smooth functioning of the location-based services on Android.  • Collaborated with the team by using the version controller GIT HUB.  • Worked on Snowball application with Facebook API and Google API to communicate with messages.  • Developed Custom controls for UIButton, UITextField, UIViews, UITextView.  • Worked with universal storyboards, size classes, auto layouts to adapt the user interface to context and different sized devices, usedthird-party library cocoaAsynSocket to work with sockets.  • Worked with Cocoa, AppKit, Foundation, Core services, Used Core location to update the location.  • Used NSURL, NSURLConnectionand NSURLRequest to interact with the cloud.  • Used NSUserDefaults to store user information in P-list.  • Used System Configuration framework to monitor the network state of the iOS device.  • Back end response was JSON based and parsing was done using NSJSONSerialization  • The team utilized Agile development with weekly Scrum meetings.  • Constructed custom View Controllers including TableViews with custom TableViews Cells using Programmatic UI  • Implemented code to display all the folders in alphabetical order as well as to display all the files which are present in the mobile.  Environment:XCODE 8, IOS 7, IOS 8, IOS 9, IOS,10+, Swift 3, Objective-C, JAVA Script Tibco, Agile Methodology, Cocoa, AppKit, ASP, REST API, Xamarin, MSSQL,Jenkins, HTML, CSS, Quality Coding, Android studio. Android iOS developer Verizon Basking Ridge,NJ - Basking Ridge, NJ April 2016 to July 2018 Description:Verizon delivers the promise of the digital world by enhancing the ability of humans, businesses and society to do more new and Verizon is a global leader delivering innovative communications and technology solutions that improve the way our customers live, work and play.  Responsibilities:  • Worked extensively on Android frameworks and third-party APIs.  • Worked extensively with Objective-C, XCode and Storyboard for the application at hand.  • Involved in entire software development process for all android application including requirement analysis, design, and implementation and testing.  • Designed and developed android UI for displaying the sales reports for retailers and sales distributors.  • Upon login, the user, based on his role, can see the sales reports for the retailers/distributors by weekly, monthly and quarterly.  • Worked on VxWorks7 to fix core kernel defects, handling customer escalations and enhancement requests of various features in the kernel such as semaphore, asynchronous I/O, system call handling, memory protection, etc.  • Developed various screens for the front end using React Native and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager).  • Established data persistence with SQLite for Android  • Worked on several methods for testing and tracking of applications like kiwi.  • Created a variety of scripts and tools to mine data, automate tasks, etc. using Python  • Built android layout to display the reports in grid like format.  • Added filters in the UI and called APIs to fetch the JSON result set based upon the filter.  • Used AFNetworking to connect RESTfulAPI services and maintained background image downloads, uploads, chat conversations, and messages from system.  • Familiar with AVFoundation, CoreAnimation / UI animation concepts and Worked as UI developer.  • Worked with GIT to checkout and update the codebase changes.  • Performed Unit test and fixed bugs in Agile Environment.  • Worked on UI with HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Worked in the internal process using SCRUM Agile methodology.  • Used XCode 6.1, 5.1.1 and 5.1 to build application for iPhone 3.5 inch, iPhone 4-inch retina and iPhone 4-64bit Retina iPhone 5, 5s, 6 and 6 plus.  • Created Custom UI Views, custom Table Views, and custom Table View Cell for user interface.  • Sub-classed a UINavigationController to make a Styled Navigation Controller which would then be used throughout the application. This would make it easier to change a certain behaviour of a View Controller for example to change the color of the navigation bar throughout the application.  • Created Table View Controllers in the application and segue ways from different View Controllers.  • Worked on iOSSDK 7 and iOSSDK 8.  • Used GitHub to push changed codes. Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using AJAX, JavaScript.  • Responsible for code optimization and testing of the website across different browsers.  • Validated input values to make sure that they will be accepted before they are submitted to the server.  • Wrote extensive HTML, CSS2, CSS3 and JavaScript code to build dynamic pages using Eclipse.  • Involved in the development of Dynamic loading of web pages using Ajax calls with server pages.  • Worked on automated UI Acceptance testing using Xamarin Test Cloud.  • Used project libraries likeAndroid Support Library, Dagger, Butterknife, Event Bus, View Pager, Rx JAVA, ORM-LITE,and another common library.  • Broad knowledge of NFC payment which was integrated into the app itself.  Environment:iOS 7.1/8.0, XCode 6.0/6.3, Agile Methodology, iPad, iPhone, Objective-C, Cocoa Touch, Kiwi Framework, UIKit, JSON, XML, HTML5, CSS, REST, JavaScript, jQuery, Core data, Core animation, SQLite, Android SDK, Eclipse IDE, AV Foundation, Google Maps, AML and SQL Databases, J Unit, GPS Services. Android ApplicationDeveloper Highmark Health - Pittsburgh, PA January 2014 to April 2016 Description:Highmark is a non-profit healthcare company based in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States. It is a large individual not-for-profit health insurer in the United States, which operates several for-profit subsidiaries.  Responsibilities:  • Working on Mobile /Android application development part of FieldLocate.  • Implemented flexible application layout using fragments.  • Automated unit test cases by using android RoboElectric and Junit frame works.  • Used AsyncTasks hosted in Fragments to handle network call and device rotation.  • Worked with Objective C, Swift and Cocoa Frameworks, which includes UIKit, Foundation, UI Image Picker.  • Used SQLite database to generate local caching of price book for faster access.  • Wrote code to interact with the RESTful service server.  • Worked on the system landscape including development, testing and production and set up and configured the Linux, PHP and SQL database.  • Conceptualized, designed, developed and deployed mobile applications using iOS SDK, XCode.  • Used JUnit for unit testing and implementing Test Driven Development (TDD) methodology.  • Involved in replacing existing Risk UI platform with a faster and more robust performing application using Protobufs.  • Developed using Android SDK and implemented AndroidBluetooth and Location connectivity components.  • Configured a Service to create notifications to remind the user that he is clocked in.  • Implemented push notifications in application.  • Integrated Retrofit Network library in code to improve application network performance.  • Implemented location-based tracking of technician using AndroidLocationAPI and Maps.  • Wrote part of an iOS SDK in Swift to be consumed by several news-based iOS projects.  • Debugged code to fix defects in the application.  • Proficient in developing, testing and setting up the Linux and SQL database on system landscape.  • Used JIRA to manage issues for a better control.  • Prepared root cause analysis report for defects fixed.  • Responsible for updated application submission on GooglePlaystore.  Environment:Android Studio, RESTful Web Services, SQLite, Core Java, Objective C, XCode 4.6/5, UML, iPhone SDK, Cocoa Touch, Collection framework, Android OS. iOS Developer Express scripts - Franklin, NJ February 2011 to December 2013 Description: Millions trust Express Scripts for safety, care and convenience. Express Scripts makes the use of prescription drugs safer and more affordable.    Responsibilities:  • Worked extensively with Java and the SDK frameworks.  • Extensively worked with GoogleAPIs to navigate store locations and gets you the directions.  • Worked with SQLite for implementing database to store various user data, preferences.  • Implemented RESTfulWebServices to verify login credentials of the user.  • Participated in overall development activities including requirements elaboration, design and coding.  • Designed and developed the user interfaces, DesignedDynamicUI with Fragments.  • Worked with Xml to extract the data and display it on app.  • Worked on customizing Tableviews, Listviews, Tabbars and navigation bars.  • Worked on optimizing the application using inbuilt tools such as Monkey Runner, Traceview.  • JUnit extension for Android was used to prepare the test cases.  • Tested the application for relevant bugs, fixed the leaks and deployed on different Android device to validate the application stability.  • Worked on reviewing and distributing the App to the AppStore.  • XML parsing was implemented using SAX parser to parse the data and access the services  • Also, tested the app consistency on multiple screens and mobile devices  • Involved in packaging, signing,and provisioning.  Environment: iOS 7.0, XCode 6, iPhone, Objective-C, Cocoa Touch, JS, jQuery, Mapkit (GMM), Agile, XC Test, NSOperationQueue, NSURLConnection. Associate Mobile Developer Sonata Software - Hyderabad, Telangana November 2009 to February 2011 Description: Sonata Software is a global IT solutions firm focused on catalysing business transformation initiatives of its clients through deep domain knowledge, technology expertise and customer commitment. The company delivers innovative solutions for Travel, Retail & Distribution and Software Product companies through IP based Platforms, Products and Services.  Responsibilities:  • Extensively participated in user meetings to gather the requirements of the application  • Worked with Agile programming and the Scrum development process.  • OO Concepts and UML were immensely used for modeling.  • Worked as a team to develop Android and iOS applications for the organization.  • Used XCode4IDE to develop the iOS app. Created layouts and used maps interface.  • Developed the UI for the app using edit boxes, buttons, 9-patch images, time picker, date picker, dialog boxes, alert boxes and spinners using various layouts.  • Collaborated with cross-functional teams to define, design, and implement new features.  • Worked independently in Eclipse with Java on the implementation of the native application for Android involving SDKs Android  • Worked on styles, colors, and fonts and using images for the entire application.  • Context and Options menu was handled in a dynamicfashion to display counts for the menu.  • Worked with Android UI components such as Layouts, Menus and ActionBars.  • Added logging and debugging capabilities using Log4j and using SVN.  • Make sure the quality of code using PMD & Find Bugs.    Environment:Java1.6, J2EE, Hibernate, Spring, Junit, WebLogic HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Jenkins, Node.js, jQuery, Linux, CICD, Spring Boot, Maven, Log4J and Junit, Eclipse, REST, SQL Navigator Java Developer Net cracker Technology Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2007 to November 2009 Description: Rapidly changing markets driven by shifting needs and behavior require customers to rethink the way they do business to stay relevant and competitive. With so many choices and unknowns, where a customer focuses their attention has never been more important. However, where to focus is just one part.  Responsibilities:  • Development, Testing, Maintenance,and product delivery.  • Prepared SOW (Statement of Work) by communicating with agencies and organized meetings about requirements.  • Followed Java & J2EE design patterns and the coding guidelines to design and develop the application.  • Extensively used JSTL tags and Struts tag libraries. Used Struts tiles as well in the presentation tier.  • Developing the application using Struts and spring based frameworks.  • Actively involved in designing and implementing the application using various design patterns.  • Done with Server-side validations using the Struts Validation framework.  • Processed JSON response data by consuming RESTful web services and used an Angular filter for implementing search results.  • Used Struts-config.xml file for defining Mapping Definitions and Action Forward Definitions  • Developed the Action Classes which is in between view and model layers, Action Form Classes which is used to maintain session state of a web application, created JSPs ( Java Server pages) using Struts tag libraries and configured in struts-config.XML, web.xml files.  • This application is designed using MVC architecture to maintain easily.  • Hibernate is used for database connectivity and designed HQL (Hibernate Query language) to create, modify and update the tables.  • Created new Soap services using JAX-WS specifications.  Environment: Java, Struts, Hibernate, JSP, Servlets, SOAP UI, HTML, CSS, Java Script, JUnit, Apache Tomcat Server, EJB, NetBeans. Skills Android, Android sdk, Cordova, Ios, Objective-c, Restful web services, Soap, Xcode, Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Intellij idea, jquery, Jsp, Ms visual studio, Visual studio, Android studio, Html, Javascript, Json Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming/Scripting Languages Android, PL/SQL, Java, J2EE, JDBC, UNIX Shell scripting.  Development Tools Android Studio, JDeveloper, Net Beans 6.X, MS Visual Studio,Photoshop, IntelliJ IDEA, Xcode, Eclipse.  Web Technologies HTML 5.0, AJAX, DHTML, jQuery, JSP, JavaScript.  iOS Applications Objective-C, Swift (all versions), Cocoa2D and XCode Interface builder, Xamarin, -UIKit, Cocoa Touch, Core Data  Web Services Android SDK, HTTP, Restful Web Services, Google APIs, XML, DOM parsers, SAX parsers, SOAP, JSON  Database technologies MySQL, SQLite, SQL Server.  Third Party Libraries Picasso, phone gap, Espresso, OpenGL, Cordova, Dagger.  Testing Tools Espresso, Mockito, DDMS, Logcat.  Mobile Technologies/Tools Android Emulator, Trace View, Draw 9-patch, Android SDK.  Operating Systems Windows, Linux, UNIX, Mac OSX, IOS, VMware, Android