Java Mule ESB Integration Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Mule ESB Integration <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Mule ESB Integration Developer - CVS Chicago, IL • A certified Mule Soft Developer over 10+ years of diversified experience in Mule ESB integration tool & Java related web technologies.  • Adept in software development designing & implementing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and Enterprise Application Integration (EAI) using Mule Server 3.x.  • Experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Requirements Specification, designing documents and writing Test cases using various software engineering processes ranging from Waterfall - Agile methodology.  • Expertise in involving Routers, Splitters, Filters, Transformers and Aggregators, VM queue, ActiveMQ based on use cases.  • Extensively worked on constructing Salesforce, SAP, connectors and provided the proper connection timeouts, response timeouts, along with connection pooling.  • Strong Knowledge in implementing data transformation using XSLT & Data Weave, Routing, Schema and Data Validation.  • Hands on experience in involving connectors like DB, HTTP, HTTPS, FTP, FILE, SFTP, JMS, Salesforce etc are used as a part of integrating different systems that include File Upload, Data Base, Web services and Spring services etc. using Mule ESB.  • Proficient knowledge in Mule Expression Language(MEL), Anypoint Studio that integrates API's, databases, SaaS applications and deployed to Mule Soft Cloud Hub and On-premises servers.  • Involved deploying application in Mule Soft Cloud Environment.  • Expertise in developing the custom connectors in Mule ESB where all the exception handling logic was implemented in it.  • Re-inforced and re-structured some existing API's. Designed and developed several flows for new requirements and variety use cases using the Mule Soft Any Point Studio of Mule ESB.  • Strong knowledge on RAML API's with OAUTH 2.0 based bearer authentication and developed using the MULE ESB.  • Expertise in writing RAML files for different entity creations and respective associations.  • Hands on experience in REST API's using RAML and developed flows using APIKIT Router.  • Proficient in configure Scopes, Rate Limiting, Throttling tiers, and SLA tiers, JSON Threat Protection as per API requirements.  • Well versed in developing the JSON Schema Validation to validate the input request.  • Strong knowledge in configuring Amazon SNS notifications and SQS Queues to notify the SQS with message payload whenever the feed files are dropped in S3 bucket  • Hands on programming experience in creating Global exception strategy for all the packages which includes complex API's to achieve exceptional service and supported all integrations with proper error messages that including root cause identification and solution recommendation.  • Involved in functional assistance to perform Munit for mocking and unit testing mule flows  • Strong knowledge on REST based Web services and SOAP web services for Mule ESB flows.  • Knowledge in integration using Spring through RESTful webservices and Hibernate based persistence and JPA  • Well versed with the concepts and hands on experience HTML, CSS & Java scripts, JSON, Ajax, jQuery.  • Hands on experience in XML related technologies including XML, XSD, Xpath, XQuery, XSLT, XML Schemas, SAX and DOM parsers.  • Experienced in writing stored procedures, functions, triggers and joins using SQL, SQL Server and MySQL, MS SQL Server, Oracle, DB2.  • Proficient in ANT & Maven for building and deployment of applications.  • Expertise in reviewing JIRA tickets, confluence pages and understand Business requirements, and Business logic.  • Good hands on coding experience in developing web based applications and Client-Server technologies using Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Spring JDBC, JMS, Object - oriented design/analysis, UML modeling.  • Excellent hand skills in developing the application using Spring IOC to communicate with the persistence layer.  • Strong knowledge in Spring Beans and implemented Dependency Injection framework.  • Hands on Spring AOP framework for security transactions, reusability logging purpose.  • Expertise in preparing technical design, unit test cases, detailed time estimation, traceability matrix, impact analysis and code reviewed documents for each iteration task.  • Extensively used Junit & log4j for unit testing and logging.  • Well versed in implementing Exception Handling, Logging and Auditing.  • Proficient involvement in end to end Development of Projects covering all phases of Software Development Life Cycle including Requirement Analysis, Designing, Build/Construction, Unit/Assembly Testing and Deployment.  • Proactively collaborated with Applications Development and QA teams to establish best practices.  • Meticulous involvement with management and development team to discuss productivity dash boards, client requirements and optimized technical glitches on a daily basis.  • Acquisition and master new technologies and to deliver outputs in short deadlines in a fast- paced environment with problem- solving and organizational abilities.  • A polished communicator, with good analytical and inter-personnel skills and versatile team player. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Mule ESB Integration Developer CVS - Monroeville, PA January 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in Agile methodology to meet requirements, gathering, analysis, planning, developing &testing  • Associated with development phase, validations and business logic implementation.  • Written application code and development activities for large projects especially in a Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) environment with Mule ESB.  • Worked on connecting various connectors like DB, SMTP, HTTP, FTP, JDBC, SFTP, etc. as a part of integration usage.  • Worked on Flow Control using Choice, Scatter-Gather based on use case.  • Extensively used Data weave, Object transformers, encoding transformers for data transformations and implementing complex logics.  • Configuring SNS, SQS in the mule flow and store the encrypted data in S3.  • Created new schemas YAML's for new API's.  • Connecting various RAML resources to implement REST based API for consuming them using APIKIT Router as a part of project implementation in integration with MULE ESB.  • Published RAML API's as an Endpoint Proxy via the API Gateway and deployed in the Cloud hub  • Connecting REST/SOAP web services to Mule with the help of Mule plug-ins for web services, as well as connectors for direct database access.  • Utilized WSDL, SOAP, JAX-WS technologies to create web services by generating stubs and consuming web services.  • Implemented Mule flows for different modules, which process files and emails from different systems.  • Built and Deployed services in Mule ESB Cloud Hub.  • Efficiently worked on authentication and authorization's by using OAuth 2.0, Rate limiting, Throttling tiers, and SLA Tiers.  • Executed Mule flows for each entity with retry mechanisms with private flows.  • Configured Active MQ/JMS and HTTP connectors for asynchronous process.  • Hands on experience with XPath for parsing xml elements as a part of business logic processing.  • Efficiently used Jenkins for continuity in integration and deployment.  • Integrating with DevOps and Mule Soft for deployments in different environments that connect applications, data sources and APIs, in the cloud.  • Worked closely with front end to resolve and design API's according to requirement and make them fully functional.  • Extensively used Maven dependencies as build script for application build and deployment.  • Utilized Java Embedding activity for executing Java classes for complex business logic.  • Implemented Service Overrides concept on SFTP connectors  • Created Oracle Strut Objects for data sync up to Database system.  • Used AJAX and JavaScript to handle asynchronous requests; and CSS was used to keep uniformity in look of the application.  • Involved in creating custom Java and XSLT transformers of mule endpoints through WSSR  • Performed Munit for mocking and unit testing mule flows.  • Used GIT as a version and source controlling tool and deployed the application on premises and cloud as well.  Environment: MULE ESB, Agile, Any point Studio, RAML, OAuth, API, Cloud hub, Jenkins, REST, SOAP, SQL Server management Studio, Oracle DB, Core Java, Spring Application, Frameworks, XML, AJAX, JavaScript, Munit, WSDL, Active MQ, GIT, JAX-WS, Maven, AWS (SQS, SNS, S3). Mule ESB Developer Gate Group - Reston, VA September 2015 to February 2017 Responsibilities:  • Responsible and active in the analysis, definition, design, implementation and deployment of full software development life-cycle (SDLC) of the project.  • Involved actively in documenting the Technical specifications for the services to be implemented.  • Participated in development of API's done using Anypoint Studio, RAML, and API Manager.  • Integrated with Enterprise Systems like Salesforce, SAP and performed Extraction, transformation loading of the data.  • Subscribed and published topics from Salesforce and transformed the SFDC objects into backward compatible data format.  • Configured the Salesforce, HTTP connectors and provided the proper connection timeouts, response timeouts, along with connection pooling.  • Created HTTP inbound & outbound flows, routing, orchestration, transformations and Security of MULE ESB application using OAuth.  • Configured various Flows, Routers, Filters, Splitters and Aggregators, VM queue.  • Creating RAML API's with OAUTH 2.0 based bearer authentication and SLA Tiers.  • Implemented Groovy script in mule flow for configuring the business logic.  • Implementation of Data Weave for transforming the input request.  • Developed JSON Schema Validation to validate the input request.  • Custom Connectors are developed in Mule ESB where all the exception handling logic was implemented in it.  • Mule ESB CXF component was developed in Mule configuration file to consume SOAP webservices  • Designed Scopes as per API requirements.  • Experience with Mule administration, configuration and tuning, Mule Soft MMC and Enterprise release capabilities.  • Hands on experience in integration patterns, tools, Transformations, XML Schemas & XSLT.  • Initiated Mule Batch Steps in the Mule Batch process, which loads the data feed into the MYSQL database hosted in AWS and differential process of the data is performed using Stored Procedures and pushes the resultant output to a Temporary table in MySQL.  • Performed operations like Invoking Apex method on SFDC objects and worked on creating SQL queries using the Salesforce objects with bulk upserts.  • Consumed REST/SOAP webservices in mule and invoke them in Postman.  • Configured the API with KIBANA to check the logs which internally uses the ELK search. Kibana also maintains the reports about number of requests received.  • Generous usage of Web Services to access Stored data on legacy systems.  • Implemented build package tool using Maven.  • Jenkins was used for continuous integration and build.  • Responsible to prepare deployment plan and do the production deployment to Cloud Hub using Jenkins CI platform  • Utilized GitHub for version and source control and Active MQ for Asynchronous messaging.  • Configured Spring beans for importing the mule flows.  • Framed, implemented data layer using Hibernate and performed configuration of Spring application framework  • JMS listeners for the SQS queues to initiate the Mule Spring Batch Job process.  • Log4j framework was used in the application to store log messages  • Partitioned exception handling into 3 types Business Exceptions, Validation Exceptions and System Exceptions.  Environment: Java, Anypoint Studio, Mule ESB, RAML, OAuth, Cloud Hub, Mule Soft MMC, AJAX, JMS, ELK, MY SQL, AWS, SOAP, REST, XML, JSON, SFTP, Postman, ActiveMQ, Agile, Apache-Maven, Log4j, GIT, Jenkins, Kibana, JDBC, Spring, JUnit, Oracle, Web Services. Mule Soft Developer Well Care - Tampa, FL May 2014 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  • Participated in various SDLC methodologies to gather business requirements.  • Involved in creating various reports using SSRS and sent to respective e-mails using subscriptions.  • Created the MULE ESB artifacts, created flows and configured the MULE configuration files, install & deployed the application.  • Setting up Mule ESB for the development environment. Implemented transformations on Mule payload.  • Implemented data transformation using XPATH, XSLT, Data Weave, custom java classes.  • Extensively used Mule components that include File, HTTP, SMTP, FTP, SFTP, JDBC Connector, and Transaction Manager.  • Migrated Mule ESB 3.5 apps to Mule ESB 3.7.3 and updated all the dependencies.  • Migrated deprecated Data Mapper mapping to Data Weave in MULE ESB.  • Design and Implemented XML/WSDL/SOAP/RESTful Web Services to provide the interface to the various clients running on both Java and Non- Java applications.  • Customized REST/SOAP APIs, including JSON data formats and API versioning strategy.  • Experience in Mule Soft Anypoint API platform on designing and implementing Mule APIs.  • Strong knowledge and hands on experience in documenting and designing REST API's using RAML.  • Worked on transformers, exception handling, testing & Security of Mule ESB endpoint through OAuth.  • Have written Munit test cases to validate the Mule flows.  • Implemented asynchronous messaging using Active MQ and Rabbit MQ.  • Developed Mule flows to integrate Data from various sources into Database, from ActiveMQ topics and queues, some transformations were also done at the integration layer.  • Developed interfaces between SAP, Sales Force, REST and SOAP web-services.  • Developing Mule ESB projects for the services with synchronous and asynchronous Mule flows.  • Involved in creating http inbound & outbound flows and orchestration using XPath using MULE ESB.  • Utilized CVS (Concurrent Version System) as the configuration management tool.  • CloudHub connector is used in the flows to trigger alerts during exceptions and captured the failed records for further recovery.  • Tested the developed components using JUnit.  • Used Log4J components for logging. Perform daily monitoring of log files and resolve issues.  • Involved in injecting dependencies into code using spring core module concepts like IOC of Spring Framework.  • Implemented Stateless Session Beans to accomplish complex business logic and for transaction management in various modules.  • Involved in installing and configuring Eclipse IDE, ANT, Web Logic and Maven for development.  • Used PUTTY to run the batch jobs and check the server logs  • Actively involved in getting the QA, UAT and production issues resolved.    Environment: Agile, Java 1.7/J2EE, Mule Soft ESB 3.5.3/3.7.3, Anypoint Studio, ActiveMQ, RabbitMQ, RAML, Salesforce, Cloud hub, Putty, Apache-Maven, JSON, Eclipse IDE, ANT, Maven, Web logic, REST, SOAP, XML, Web Services, log4j, CVS, JUnit. Sr. java/ j2EE developer Workday - Pleasanton, CA September 2013 to April 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Agile - Sprint methodologies to do requirements gathering, analysis and planning.  • Worked on Apache CXF, WSDL, SOAP, AXIS and JAX-WS technologies to create web services, generate stubs and consuming the existing services.  • Involved in building the code & deploying on Web logic server.  • Participating in the High-level and low-level system design, planning, estimation and implementation.  • Designed front-end pages using JSP, JQUERY, JSTL, JavaScript, Struts Tag libraries and AJAX calls to get the required data.  • Involved in creating Workflow framework to track the processing flow.  • Used various design patters like factory, static factory, DAO, singleton.  • Responsible for fixing various defects, Change Requests (CR's) that arise due to code deployments in various environments.  • Used Oracle11g database for table creation and developed various complex SQL queries using Inner/Outer Joins and Stored Procedures.  • Expertise in using various drag and drop pallets for generating reports in pdf format by fetching dynamic data and merging it with the static data in Eclipse BIRTin RichClient module and used Java in the backend for the business logic.  • Involved in developing business components using EJB Session Beans and persistence using EJB Entity beans.  • JMS is used for Asynchronous messaging.  • Involved in fixing defects & tracked them using QC & Provided support and maintenance and customization.  • Used core java, which includes Collections and Maven to acquire the dependencies and build the application.  • Used Struts frame work to maintain MVC and created action forms, action mappings, DAOs, application properties for Internationalization etc.  • Developing customized reports and Unit Testing using JUNIT    Environment: Java, J2EE, Agile, JSP 2.0, Struts 2.0, EJB 2.0, JUNIT, JMS, JSTL, JQuery, Oracle, SQL, XML/XSL, CXF, WSDL, AXIS, JAX-WS, Web Sphere Studio Application Developer, Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA), EJB, JavaScript, AJAX, Singleton, web logic server, MVC, Maven. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Lincoln Financial Group - Fort Wayne, IN December 2011 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in participating Agile methodologies includes iteration planning, creating story boards etc.  • Designing/developing the integration between SOA BPEL and JSF applications.  • Design and developed user interface components using JSF GUI Rich Faces.  • Building JSF dynamic reusable business components.  • Developing web application for e-tracking Management (accounting and logistics) using JSF 2.2, Prime Faces 4.1, Dependency Injection Spring 3.2 and ORM Hibernate 4.1.  • Developed UI Page fragments, templates using Jdeveloper 11g.  • Implemented custom Validations for various fields in JSF and interacting services in managed beans.  • Worked on customized JSF exception handling to display user friendly error/warning messages.  • Hands on Experience in EJBs Session beans for business logic.  • Developed the business logic component in middle tier using JPA 2.0 with Eclipse Link and EJB framework including stateless session classes and Entity bean classes.  • Implemented EJB Message Driven Beans to consume with JMS messages based on topics.  • Proficient in J2EE Pattern: Managed Bean Business Object and Helper/Utility classes.  • Extensively used Quartz scheduler to reprocess the error messages in Queue tables.  • Efficient in working with REST services for the integration of Measures, Events and Communication for Trellis Platform.  • Developed REST and SOAP Web Services using JAX-WS, WSDL and JAX-RS specifications.  • Used java callout in BPEL to call the auto reconciliation process.  • Developed BPEL process for Trellis application module and used Database Adapter to pool and populate the data to Trellis apps using SOA BPEL Components.  • Utilized MDS to share common assets like XSD, WSDL, and XML's etc.  • Involved in database Trigger and PL/SQL procedures implementation based on the requirements.  • Used Spring AOP framework for security transactions, reusability logging purpose  • Implemented automatic email notification of the monthly statements for the customers using Java Mail  • Prepared technical design, unit test cases, detailed time estimation, traceability matrix, impact analysis and code reviewed documents for each iteration task  • Developed Action form beans to map the form elements and used Validation framework for validating the user input data, extending Struts components.    Environment: Agile, Java, J2EE, JSF2, Prime Faces, SOAP/ REST Services, Oracle SOA Suite BPEL 11g, JPA 2.0 with Eclipse Link, Jdeveloper 11g, EJB- Session beans, WebLogic 11g, Web Services, Servlets, WSDL, XML, JSF, PL/SQL, XSD, Spring, JAX- WS, JAX- RS. Sr./ Lead Java Developer T Rowe Price - Baltimore, MD December 2010 to November 2011 Responsibilities:  • Participated in requirements gathering and analysis from the existing system using use cases and sequence diagrams  • Actively involved in defining and designing the tiers of the applications and implementation with core Java and J2EE best design practices.  • Develop and maintain elaborate services based architecture utilizing open source technologies like Hibernate, ORM and Spring Framework.  • Use TDD technique to fulfil the functions of module.  • Followed Agile Methodology in analyze, define, and document the application which will support functional and business requirements. Coordinate these efforts with Functional Architects.  • Involved in implementation of application using conventional design practices (SOA-Service Oriented Architecture, MVC-Model View Controller).  • Integrated spring framework with Hibernate that is used for Database operations.  • Developed front end modules using HTML, JavaScript, JSP, CSS.  • Implemented Spring MVC Architecture; Servlet targeting request module and flow of control generating JSP in Presentation layer.  • Used JMS to build a message communication.  • Manage project by using Maven.  • Deployed application in WebLogic and tested with Junit.  • Created Graphical User Interfaces using JSP and HTML.  • Used JavaScript and Angular JS to make webpage more interactive.  • Created database to persist data using Oracle database.  • Hands on experience in SQL queries, triggers, and views to interact with Database.  • SVN is used to examine code from the repository    Environment: Java/J2EE, spring, Struts, JSP, JAXB, JMS, Angular JS, Ajax, JavaScript, SQL, HTML, CSS, SOA-MVC, Hibernate, Oracle, Eclipse IDE, XML, ORM, Junit, Maven, Web Logic. Java/J2EE Developer Lincoln Financial Group May 2008 to November 2010 Responsibilities:  • Involved in end to end development of SDLC using Waterfall methodology.  • Collaborated with the business and technical teams to discuss about the issues.  • Developed user interface using JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Tag libraries, jQuery and AJAX.  • Worked on complete design and coding using JSP, Servlets  • Developed SWING Desktop Client to access Cash Services.  • Used Core Java concepts like Collections, Exception Handlings, Serialization, Multi-Threading, Concurrency, Latest java features.  • Worked on Struts framework to define Controller, action mappings, forms and View pages  • Integrated the application with Validation Framework.  • Used Core Java & J2EE design patterns like Singleton, Factory, Business Delegate, Adapter, MVC, DAO, VO, DTO, Service Locator etc.  • Hands on experience in WSDL, SOAP, AXIS and JAX-WS technologies to create web services, generate stubs and consuming the existing services.  • Developed Restful web services using JERSEY tool.  • Developed EJBs - Session beans for Business logic & Entity Beans for Persistence.  • Used JNDI to do connection pooling.  • Written SQL Queries and PL/SQL - stored procedures, functions, indexes, triggers and sequences to interact with the database.  • Used JMS to pass messages as payload to track different statuses, milestones and states in the workflows  • Developed and documented Test cases, Test scenarios & Test scripts for Unit testing and Black box testing and after all wrote show case documents for showing to the users and other teams.  • Involved in creating JUNIT test cases and ran the TEST SUITE using EMMA tool.  • Ran check style & Find bugs defects and fixed them before code check ins.  • Used RAD IDE for developing the application.  • Used Ant tool to build the code & deployed the application on IBM Web sphere application server.  Environment: Waterfall Methodology, Java 1.5, J2EE, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, jQuery, JNDI, JSP, JMS AJAX, JAX-WS, swings, struts, DB2- SQL, PL/SQL, EJB- Session beans, Entity Beans, RAD, Log4j, Junit, Maven, IBM web sphere, WSDL, SOAP, AXIS, JERSEY, Ant, Validation Framework. Education Bachelor's Skills Java (9 years), JMS (8 years), SOAP (9 years), SQL (8 years), web services (9 years), Java J2Ee, Spring, J2Ee, Hibernate, Rest, MVC, JEE, Javascript, Angular, Core Java, AWS, JSP, Angularjs Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages: Java, HTML, CSS, SQL, PL/SQL, Shell scripting, PHP.  Java Technologies: Core Java, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JMS, JavaBeans, AJAX, jQuery, Angular JS.  UI Technologies: HTML 5, Java Script, AJAX, CSS 3, Applets/Swings, JSTL, JSON, jQuery, ODBC.  Web Services: WSDL, SOAP, REST, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, UDDI, AXIS, CXF, POSTMAN  Development Tools: Eclipse, Any Point Studio  Deployment Tools: ANT, Maven, Jenkins,  Frameworks: Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Service Integration.  Middleware: Mule ESB, Active MQ, IBM Integration bus  Databases: MS SQL Server, MYSQL, DB2, HBase, Cassandra, MongoDB, Greenplum, Oracle 10g/11g.  Testing Tools: log4j, Junit, Munit.  XML Technologies: XML, XHTML, XSL, XSLT, XSD, SOAP, DOM, DTD, JAXP, JAXB.  Software Methodologies: SDLC, Waterfall, Agile.  Web Servers: Tomcat 6.1, Application Servers, IBM WebSphere 8.x, Web Logic Server 11g, IBM API connect, Apache, JBOSS.  Version Control: GitHub, TFS.  Others: Docker container's, Unix, Linux, Visual Studio Code, ATOM.