Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Dallas, TX • Overall 9+ years of experience in the IT industry, involved in complete software development life cycle (SDLC) including requirement gathering, analysis, design, development, peer walkthroughs, deploying, testing, debugging, implementation and maintenance of business applications.  • Experience in working in environments using Agile (SCRUM) and Test Driven development  methodologies  • Expertise in developing Multi-tier enterprise level web applications using various J2EE technologies including JSP, JSTL, JSF, Servlets, Struts, Spring, EJB, JDBC, JNDI, JMS, RMI, ANT, Java Multi-threading API, ORM tools like Hibernate.  • Expertise in developing application using Spring Framework that uses features of Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring Transaction, Spring JDBC, Spring Data, Spring Boot and Spring AOP features.  • Developed rich and complex Responsive Web User Interface using HTML5/XHTML, JavaScript, CSS3, XML, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, Node JS and Bootstrap.  • Extensive experience using AJAX and JSON as data interchange format.  • Application development experience using Exception Handling, Multithreading, Serialization, Externalization, Collection framework, Generics and Core JAVA.  • Experience in Telecom domain like SMSGateway,MMSGateway and USSDGateway.  • Experience with Object Oriented Design and Object Oriented Analysis, Complete System Life Cycle, RUP, UML and associated tools such as Rational Rose.  • Good Experience in implementing several object oriented design patterns such as Model View Controller (MVC) , Front Controller, Data Access Object, Data Transfer Object and Singleton.  • Extensive experience in SQL programming language in Oracle PL/SQL, and MySQL database environments. Developed Stored procedures, Triggers, views, complex join queries. Strong and in-depth knowledge of various relation database systems and NoSQL database systems like MongoDB, Berkeley DB.  • Experience in developing and deploying applications through Tomcat and application servers like IBM WebSphere and JBoss.  • Strong understanding of PCI DSS requirements including application level security standards,cryptography , encryption & decryption process and OWASP.  • Excellent experience in developing applications using Eclipse IDE and Netbeans  • Hands on experience with Project Management tools such as JIRA.  • Expert level programming skills in UNIX and shell scripting and CVS tools  • Expert in Socket level programming and analyzing TCP/IP traces.  • Good knowledge with CVS, Clear Case, GIT and SVN for code management and version control.  • Experienced with creating, consuming and testing SOAP and RESTful Web Services.  • Very good working knowledge in SOA (Service Oriented Architecture)  • Developed RESTful web applications using Spring MVC and JSON.  • Worked with the build tools like Maven, Jenkins and Hudson.  • Good knowledge in HornetQ & IBMMQ  • Experience in writing Junit Test cases using JUnit.  • Ability to deal with people, grasp things fast, creative and willingness to work has always been my strengths.  • Strong background in supporting production environments and meeting customer needs.  • Excellent Client interaction skills and proven experience in working independently as well as in team. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Developer Sr full stack developer - Dallas, TX September 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in all stages of Software development life cycle including Analysis, development, Implementation, testing and support.  • Working closely with business for requirement gathering and development of Business logic.  • Involved in development of user interfaces using HTML5, CSS3, Jquery, Jsp, Javascript, Bootstrap and Angular JS.  • Used Angular.js filters to make the data searchable and sortable.  • Developed the application using Spring Framework that leverages classical Model View Controller (MVC) architecture.  • Developed multithreaded programming.  • Used Spring IOC for Dependency injection and Spring Hibernate for Data access layer.  • Used Spring AOP to capture performance statistics of business logic and DAO layer methods.  • Used Hibernate to access data base and collect data.  • Implemented persistence layer using Hibernate to interact with My SQL database and also implemented object relational mapping.  • Implemented RDBMS in DDL/DML design / data quality analysis. SQL- Query optimization expertise, including data integrity analysis for application and customization testing.  • Used Angular UI grid to export search results to csv files.  • Developed RESTful web services utilizing business logic for CRUD functionality.  • Configured pom.xml to manage project dependencies, plugins and goals.  • Selenium IDE and JUnit are used to test UI and backend respectively.  • Worked with different MNOs to integrate with their messaging platforms.  • Implemented application using Spring Boot.  • Migrated project's database to MongoDB from MySQL.  • Generated new scripts from the existing MySQL for MongoDB.  • Used JIRA to track user story board for the project.  • Agile methodology is being followed where there are daily SCRUM meetings to understand the status and resolve any issues under hard deadlines.  • Assisted new resources with the application work flow.  • Worked with client testing team in improving and debugging various production issues.    Environment: Java, JSP, JSON, SMPP, HornetQ, IBMMQ, Hibernate, Spring, Agile Methodology, JUnit, Selenium Testing, Javascript, JQuery, AngularJS, AJAX, XML, XSLT, CSS, JSP, WebLogic 3.1, REST Webservices, MySQL, Mongo DB, Jenkins, Maven, JIRA, Windows and linux,. Java J2EE Developer Hertz - Baton Rouge, LA March 2015 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Worked on complete life cycle, Design, development and testing  • Implemented Spring MVC framework for the application development  • Implemented new business requirements and enhancing existing functionalities of the application.  • Developed user interfaces using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS.  • Developed front-end code with Ajax call in AngularJS and jQuery to retrieve data as JSON Object from the backend, then display the well-organized result in web pages by writing AngularJS  controller, directives, services, and route providers.  • Develop Java based services using Java, J2EE, Spring MVC & Hibernate framework.  • Consumed RESTful web services, used them for internal (inside application) and external communications.  • Wrote Script for AJAX implementations in the website and created components, used AngularJS/JQuery for client side form validations and used JSON for creating objects in Java script.  • Developed model components like Stateless Session Beans, developed pojo class and have written code of hibernate DAO's for Service Modules.  • Consumed existing SOAP web services inside JAX-RS API  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with REST APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML  • Developing Hibernate Configuration files for Oracle  • Used Log4J, ANT, Maven and Taglibs to increase productivity and software quality.  • Used Spring Boot Framework to simplify development of the Spring application  • Followed Agile SCRUM Methodology.  • Tested the implementations using Junit tests where applicable.  • Involved in peer reviews for the modules coded by other team members.  Closely worked with QA, Business and Architect to solve various defects quick and fast to meet deadlines  Environment: Java, Spring MVC, REST, Hibernate, HTML, CSS, JSP, JSTL, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, XML, Bootstrap, Angular JS, JIRA, JUnit, Jasper, Chartjs, log4j, Oracle, Agile, Windows, Eclipse, GitHub Java J2EE Developer iHeart Media - San Antonio, TX June 2014 to February 2015 Responsibilities:  • Develop Java based services using Java, J2EE, Spring MVC & Hibernate framework  • Worked closely with Business Analyst to understand business requirements.  • Written Angular Controllers to maintain each view data.  • Designed object model classes and Java beans using Eclipse.  • Developed business components using Spring Core and navigation flow using Spring MVC.  • Involved in development of the database layer, ORM mapping (Hibernate) integration, Spring transaction management integration and Spring controller architecture integration.  • Extensively used Hibernate/JPA and Spring-JDBC in data access layer to access and update information from MySQL database and have written HQL, Named and Native queries  • Created reusable templates and style sheets based on UI standards and guidelines  • Code Reviews using Code Collaborator.  • Involve in implementation of REST based web services for the application  • Used Log4j for logging and debugging  • Used CVS for version control  • Worked closely with Database Administrator in identification of bad SQL & optimization of SQL queriy  • Tested the implementations using Junit tests where applicable.  • Participate in Defect Triage calls and responsible to resolve defects.  • Involved in complete lifecycle of the product from requirements to go-live and production support  Environment: Java, SPRING 3.0, Hibernate, JSP, HTML, CSS, jQuery, JSTL, JavaScript, AJAX, Angular JS, JUnit, CVS,  MYSQL Server, Windows, Log4j, Eclipse Software Engineer IMIMobile Pvt Ltd January 2011 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed SMSGateway as per the requirements.  • Used HornetQ, IBMMQ Message-Oriented-Middleware for SMSGateway.  • Developed SMPPServer using SMPP Protocol.  • Developed user interfaces using JSP, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS and HTML.  • Responsible for writing application level code to perform client-side validation using jQuery and JavaScript.  • Developed code for Responsive web design by using CSS3 media queries to detect the device or the resolution of the device.  • Developed and implemented the business logic component in middle tier using JDBC and EJB framework including stateless session classes and Entity bean classes  • Developed Spring MVC Controller classes to call on the DAO layer to generate and execute business logic from the persistence layer by performing various CRUD operations, to access data from MySQL.  • Used JDBC API to access database.  • Used SAX parser for validating the XML files against their respective Xml schemas.  • Used Subversion (SVN) for software version control  • Used Log4j for logging, debugging and Involved in writing the JUNIT test cases to test the functionality.  • Programming for bug-fixes on existing applications & worked on code review for all projects.    Environment: Java, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Spring, JSP, Servlet, Tomcat, Responsive Web Design, JUnit, MySQL, JDBC, Windows, EJB, SVN, Eclipse Java UI Developer IBM India Pvt Ltd February 2008 to November 2010 Responsibilities:  • Interacting with client for requirement analysis  • Developed user interfaces using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Worked on implementing Vanities and uploading test results in ME Tool.  • Adding entire flow for new offers on the site including UI design and integration.  • Creating and Maintaining Change Requests for code deployment in Live  • Worked on minor enhancement requests and performed E1 and E2 code pushes.  • Code deployments in Test Environment through putty tool  • Supporting the Application Live in Production, by thoroughly analyzing the issues, finding the root cause analysis, debugging/bug fixing, and preparing the deployment plan of fixes.  • Involved in the KT sessions to the new resources about functionality and high level Architecture.  • Responsible for writing application level code to perform client-side validation using jQuery and JavaScript.  • Programming for bug-fixes on existing applications and worked on code review for all projects.    Environment: Java, HTML, CSS, JSP, Servlet, JavaScript, jQuery, JDBC, Tomcat, Windows, Putty, Netbeans. Education Bachelor's Skills JAVA (9 years), JAVASCRIPT (9 years), jQuery (9 years), JSP (9 years), JDBC (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILL SET  Languages: Java, J2SE, J2EE, SQL and PL/SQL.  Web Technologies: XML, XSL , DTD, REST, SOAP, WSDL, DOM, JAX - RPC, XPath  XQuery, SOM, SAX, JAXB ,HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, JSON, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap, Angularjs, Node JS, JSP, JDBC, Servlets, JMS, Swing, DOJO, JNDI, Java Beans, JAX-WS  Application servers: WebLogic, Web Sphere, JBoss  Web Servers: Apache Tomcat.  Application Frameworks: Struts, JSF, Spring MVC, Spring-Core, Spring JDBC, Spring Hibernate, Spring Boot, Spring ORM, jQuery, Angularjs, Hadoop, MapReduce  Databases: Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server, DB2, Mongo DB  Operating Systems: Windows, Red hat Linux 9 and Solaris.  IDEs: Eclipse, Netbeans.  Version Control Systems: Clearcase, CVS, Subversion, VSS, GitHub,  SOA/Web Services: WSDL, SOAP, SOA and Restful services.  SDLC Methodology: Agile (SCRUM), TDD, Waterfall  Message-Oriented-Middleware: IBMMQ,HornetQ,Active MQ, Web Sphere MQ  Testing: JUnit, Selenium, RIT  Build/DEV Tools: TOAD, SQL Developer, SOAP UI, Rally, Jira, Putty, WinSCP,Rational Rose, UML, ANT, Maven, Jenkin, Jasper, Quality Centre, Jasmine,  Log4j    x