Sr.ATG Developer Sr.ATG <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr.ATG Developer - SEARS INC Chicago, IL • Around 11+years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Implementation ofapplication software in web-based environments, distributed n-tier architecture and client/server architecture in both Agile / Waterfall model of projects.  • Worked extensively with the JSP and servlet pages.  • Good experience in Product detail page (PDP), Shopping cart page.  • Hands on experience with commerce pipeline, order management and Checkout process.  • Good experience on assets deployment through BCC  • Had a hands on experience in customization of DAF and commerce pipeline.  • Had a good experience on solving the front end functionality.  • Experience in analyzing the Business requirement from the document and technical specifications provided.  • Had a substantial period of experience in stages of software development life cycle.  • Hands on Experience with Adobe CQ5.  • Good experience in architect of enterprise Java web applications using ATG Commerce, Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, AJAX and all of their supporting infrastructures. Expertise in Manual/Functional Testing.  • Worked extensively in frontend designing. Used CSS and Java script.  • Modified PDP, Subcategory and cart page.  • Professional experience in designing Test Cases and Test Scripts for Windows, Java and UNIX environments.  • Developed spring based web application with the Spring IOC container used for injecting dependencies. Experience in other modules such as Spring MVC, Spring JDBC, Spring Batch and Spring AOP.  • Experience in RDBMS databases like Oracle, MySQL andPostgreSQL.  • Used SLF4J for extensible logging, debugging and error tracing.  • Experience with Apache Maven for project's build and reporting.  • Experience in Application Servers such as JBOSS4.0, IBM Websphere 6.1, Oracle weblogic 12c, Oracle containers for JEE (OC4J 10.1.3) and Web Servers such as Tomcat 6.  • Experienced in using Java IDE like Eclipse 3.x, Spring Tool Suite IDE, and JDeveloper. Completed SCJP 5.0. Work Experience Sr.ATG Developer SEARS INC - Hoffman Estates, IL August 2018 to Present Roles & Responsibilities:  • Participated in gathering the requirements from the business user for the development.  • Developed configurable promotional banners which can be configured from the BCC. Also involved in setting up the sites from the Endeca.  • Had good experience with DAF, DPS and DSS.  • Using DAF created droplets, Form-handlers and pipeline.  • Worked extensively on personalization like creating a user, logging in and logging out  • Developed a design for the partner marketing sites which is configurable for each and every site.  • Worked along with the team in setting up Gift tree products which has personalization option from the partner marketing site.  • Redesigned the entire PDP page, Delivery page, order confirmation page for the new site with the new business requirement.  • Hands on experience in setting up a new sites in the BCC.  • In the commerce perspective I have worked on commerce pipeline and order management.  • Involved in the work related to the Checkout process  • Worked on many tickets for resolving the issues on time for the releases.  • Worked on issues related to CSS, Java Script and front end frameworks.  • Had good experience in working with the JSP file and modifications according to the requirement.  • Created new form-handlers and droplets for the PDP page, Subcategory page, cart page etc.  • Had a hands on experience with the ATG Rest services.  • Worked on Log Stash storefront errors for fixing them during production.  • Customized payment Groups, form handlers, subSKUcategory, Shopping cart form-handler.  • Worked on integration of tag libraries for the backend java code.  • Done complete font end design for partner marketing pages.    Environment: ATG11.1, Endeca, Adobe CQ5, ANT Script, BCC Core Java, J2EE, JSP, JSF, Servlet, Oracle Weblogic 12c , JMS, Oracle11g, CSS, JavaScript, Log Stash, XML, Eclipse-Juno, Eclipse-Kepler. ATG Developer Teleflora LLC - Oklahoma City, OK October 2017 to July 2018 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Worked extensively on ATG personalization.  • Created targeters and rules for implementing them.  • Created a personalized marquee based the targeters and rules configured by the business user from BCC.  • Changed the EXM back to File based EXM involving many property file modifications.  • Involved and worked on Setting up entirely new mobile support module and included it in the pipeline.  • Created New RQL queries from the old legacy query builders and added performance monitor to monitor the Query in the real time.  • Setting up a cookie in the current site in lower environments to select between the latest ATG site or the legacy site.  • Worked extensively on XML Parsers, to get content from the Endeca Jspref and place them on the webpage. This involved in the use of NR filters, to get the sorting done, the results are displayed in the XML format.  • Implemented new CQ scheduler driving in contentment from the CQ sites.  • Had hands on experience in setting up the content from the Adobe CQ5.  • Worked on some performance issues with infrastructure teams to improve the performance by analyzing the Thread dumps.  • Worked on the redirect URL's by creating new servlets to redirect from the old legacy URLS to the new URL's as the search engines still remember the old URL's.  • Worked on several change requests for the production issues.  • Involved in migration to ATG.  • Created new sites according to the business requirements.  • Implemented functionality and logic related changes in codebase.    Environment: ATG10.2, ATG Rest services, Endeca, Servlet, ACC, JBOSS-eap-4.2, ANT, BCC Core Java, J2EE, JSP, JSF, Scene7, JBOSS, JMS, Oracle11g, CSS, Ajax, JavaScript, Log Stash, XML, Eclipse-Juno. ATG Developer Cox Communications - Atlanta, GA August 2016 to September 2017 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Worked with application architects and system integrators to design an enterprise standard ecommerce platform leveraging service oriented architecture.  • Participating in user requirement sessions to gather business requirements. Involved in Analysis, Design, Development, Integration and Testing of application modules under the agile methodology.  • Implementing objects in various layers presentation, application, integration and resource.  • Implemented ATG REST services for Refill Order LookUp and Order Status LookUp.  • Created droplets and form handlers using ATG Dynamo.  • Customized the CommerceItem and Order objects to add new properties  • Involved in gathering requirements from business owners for design and development.  • Extended the Pricing Calculators for Item, Shipping Pricing.  • Created Targets and Slots to show in-store products.  • Inherited and extended OOTB sku and product item descriptor to include subSku's, shipToStore pilot.  • Customized ProductCatalog to include localized properties.  • Implemented Custom Catalogs to account for subCatalogs in rootCategories.  • Customized PaymentGroup, priceOrder pipeline and customized ExpressCheckoutformHandler for adding to existing accounts  • Added enhancements for Form Handlers (Shopping Cart Form Handler, order Modifier, Shipping Group Form Handler).  • Created custom droplets for displaying listing with pagination.  • Developed repositories on Oracle for inserting, updating and querying the database  • Developed the Java classes, configuration files using Eclipse (IDE).  • Fixing the priority bugs or incidents in production and update in meetings  • Extensively worked on JSP, Java Script.    Environment: Core Java, J2EE, ATG10.0.3, JSP, JSF, Scene7, JBOSS, JMS, Oracle11g, CSS, Ajax, JavaScript, Log4j SVN, XML. ATG Developer Morrison Management - Atlanta, GA April 2013 to July 2016 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Involved in collecting the business requirements for the project.  • Attended business meetings to gather the requirements and wrote functional requirements document based on it.  • Participated in technical discussions and overall architecture as well as to communicate with the other integration teams.  • Involved in implementing Catalog Module and Search Module  • Formulating the design to a solution structure which will meet the various requirements and balancing the goals to constraints on the solution  • Implemented integrations of the core ecommerce platform to the third party integrations identified  • Generated web reports for clients based on utilization and transactions for each contract.  • Implemented functionality for move, retire, generate and share licenses acrossseveral Veritas products  • Reviewed wireframes, UI Specs, Functional requirements and analysed and estimated the effort involved.  • Support for build and deployment process  • Designed application classes and database requirements at user level.  • Developed JSP pages using different DSP tag libraries.  • Developed new FormHandlers like RBLCommerceProfileFomHandler and RBLCartModifierFormHandler by extending the OOTB ProfileFormHandler and CartModifierFormHandler.  • Added a new Pipeline servlet to apply the coupon or catalogcode when the coupon or catalogcode is applied through the URL.  • Created new droplets like CrossSellItemDroplet and TotalSavingsAmountDroplet to display the 5 related SKUs and Total Savings Amount respectively.  • Implemented the Validation of the catalog code through AJAX using ProtoType Framework.  • Created a new payment group called BillMyReliable.  • Customized the userprofile.xml and orderrepository.xml to support new payment group and also added some new properties to the CommerceItem item descriptor like pricingeffortcode, inventoryStatus and sublineitems.  • Customized the paymentpipeline to support new Bill My Reliable payment method.  • Responsible for cart and checkout pages  • Involved in the co-ordination of complete production release process    Environment: ATG 9.0, Jdk-1.5.0_14, JSP, JSF, JBOSS-eap-4.2, ACC, BCC, Oracle 10g, CVS, WINXP, Eclipse 3.4. Programmer Analyst Micros - Naples, FL January 2011 to March 2013 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Discussed with the business analysts on the specific requirements and prepared use case documents.  • Making screen level changes to the Admin pages of the E-Prescribing module using JSP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed the UI components using JQuery.  • Worked on design and review of Personalization, ATG Outreach and ATG CSC (including ATG Self-service, Knowledge, and Ticketing) stream.  • Used JPA annotations to define the entities and performed CRUD operations.  • Used @Entity to define the entities,@OnetoOne and @ManytoMany annotations to denote he Object-Relational mappings.  • Worked on spring v2.5 modules like ORM, Core and MVC to design implementation for input request processing.  • JpaDaoSupport classes in spring to integrate with JPA API.  • Used spring's native support for AOP for developing the authorization logic.  • Used JPA v2 as ORM tool and SVN for source code repository.  • Prepared and executed functional test scripts using Selenium RC.  • Liaised with QA team to prepare functional test cases.    Environment: Java 5, Oracle 10g, ATG, JBOSS AS, JSP, Servlet, JUNIT, XML, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, UML, CVS, Spring v2.5 - Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, JPA v2, FileZilla, WinMerge, Edit Plus, STS IDE, Maven, Hudson, Nexus, Unix, Rally, Agile/Scrum methodology. Java/J2EE Developer Johnson & Johnson - Irvine, CA May 2008 to December 2010 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Implemented Software Designing Life Cycle processes.  • Interacted with stake holders and presented a pitch on the overall software development plan with tollgate dates.  • Developed Use cases, Class, sequence diagrams using MS Visio.  • Developed UI using JQuery, CSS and Struts Tag libraries  • Developed Struts v2 action classes to process and validate the HTTP requests.  • Used Tiles framework to define templates for UI interfaces.  • Designed and developed Velocity templates for EDI Extract UI interface and for Job Scheduler UI interface.  • Developed a DAO layer to persist entities using JDBC API.  • Wrote Oracle Functions and Procedures to wrap the SQL queries.  • Developed Ant Scripts for deploying the system into JBOSS Application Server, Worked with CVS for version controlling files  • Tested the software module using JUNIT.  • Developed Shell (Bash) Scripts for jobs.  • Used TOAD to access and test SQL scripts and fine tune SQL's for better performance.  • Liaised with QA team to prepare functional test cases.  • Worked on maintenance and enhancement of the systems resolving CR tickets.    Environment: JBOSS AS 4, JDK 1.5, JSP, JSTL, XML, JMS, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, JDBC, JNDI, Servlet, Struts 2.0, Velocity Template, Shell Script, Toad, Ultra Edit, XML Spy, CVS, Ant, SLF4J, Oracle 10g, SQL, PL/SQL, Tomcat 6,TOAD, JIRA, Agile. Education Bachelor's Skills Bea, Bea weblogic, Eclipse, Jboss, Jbuilder, Jms, Jndi, Jsp, Rmi, Servlets, Struts, Wsad, Application server, Gui, Html, Subversion, Visio, Xml, Xslt, Database Links http://@Entity http://@Entity Additional Information Technical Skills:    Framework/Products ATG Dynamo Application Framework (DAF), Struts.  Technologies JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JNDI, RMI, JMS, AXIS, XML, XSLT  Database Oracle , SQL Server, MySQL  GUI HTML, DHTML, AJAX,Jquert  IDE Eclipse, WSAD, RAD, JBuilder, NetBeans  Web/App Servers BEA WebLogic, IBM WebSphere Application Server, JBOSS  Operating Systems Windows 95/98/NT/XP, UNIX, Linux, Sun Solaris, MS-DOS  Tools Rational Rose , JUnit ,Visio, CVS, SubVersion, soapUI