Senior Application Developer cum Team Lead Senior Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> cum Team Lead Senior Application Developer cum Team Lead - Franklin Templeton Investments Miami, FL • 11 years of professional experience in design, developing, testing, and deploying SOA based Java / J2EE applications on Web.  • Have vivid working experience in specific domains like Capital Markets (Trade Surveillance Platform), Banking, Airline and Telecom.  • Expertise in developing Enterprise applications based on Java/J2EE technologies/Frameworks using Core Java 5.0/6.0, Servlet, JSP, HTML, JDBC, EJB, JMS, Struts, Spring core framework, Ofbiz, WRAPIT Framework, GigaSpaces 6.6.3XAP, ACEGI, iBatis, Hibernate, Log4J, SAX, DOM, XERCES, XML, VXML, XSL, XSLT.  • Good knowledge in designing and using proven J2EE design patterns: Singleton, Abstract Factory Pattern, Adapter Pattern, Service Locator, Business Delegate, DAO, Session Façade, Intercepting Filter, MVC.  • Have desired skills in SOA based Web Services and REST.  • Expertise in Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) using UML use cases, class diagrams and sequence diagrams.  • Well versed with complete SDLC process and SCRUM process in Agile Methodology.  • Highly motivated Team Player with excellent interpersonal and technical skills.  • Can easily adapt to any new technologies with ease and comfort and work with minimal supervision.  • Quick learner and excellent in doing research and quick findings on new technology/tools. Work Experience Senior Application Developer cum Team Lead Franklin Templeton Investments August 2018 to Present Location: Computer Sciences Corporation, India    Project: GWS Cost Basis  GWS Cost Basis is a web based j2ee application to comply with The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008.    Responsibilities:  • Lead the development activities for effective solutions and implementing it for bug fixes/enhancements.  • Developed code using Core Java/J2ee to implement technical enhancement following Java Standards.  • Coordinating with different development teams to provide CBO support on related BAU CRs.  • AngularJS App integration with RESTful services. Creating re-usable angular directives.  • Perform unit testing, support ITQ and SQA to reduce bugs and release defect free code to Production.  • Interacting with Business directly to discuss on the SDD and coordinating with all the concerned teams.  Environment:: Eclipse 3.5, Weblogic 11g, UNIX, Core Java 1.6, J2EE, SOA, Spring, HTML, JSP, Oracle 11g, PL/SQL, SQL Developer 3.1, Log4J, AngularJS1.x, JQuery, Ajax, maven, GIT2.0, IBM DataPower, SoapUI. Java/CBO Integration Developer TracFone Wireless Inc - Miami, FL January 2016 to August 2018 Project: TF WEB 4.0  This Project deals with re-designing of the mother brand website for TracFone. We are using open stack technology AngularJS1.x with NodeJS for dependency injections and gulp for minification and compilation. The moto is to provide rich customer experience by seamless integration with RESTful services at the back-end.    Responsibilities:  • Leading a Team of 10 members' offshore/on-site and playing the role of SCRUM Master.  • Developed code using Core Java/J2ee to implement technical enhancement following Java Standards.  • Implemented front end changes based on Struts and JSF with Spring DI and Java code as per requirement.  • Implemented middleware business services using EJB2.0 as part of enhancement.  • Writing PL/SQL queries as per requirement using TOAD and coding persistence layer using Hibernate2.0.  • JUnit testing in TDD evironment, debugging, Code review using Sonar3.4, Refactoring and Defect fixing.  Environment: Eclipse 3.5, Weblogic 11g, UNIX, Core Java 1.6, J2EE, EJB 2.0, iBATIS2.0, Hibernate 3.0, Spring, Struts1.3, JSF 1.2, XHTML, JSP, Oracle 11g, SQL, PL/SQL, Toad 9.0, Log4J, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, maven, CVS, MQ Series, SCRUM process of Agile Methodology. Senior Application Developer Societe Generale, Corporate & Investment Banking September 2013 to December 2016 Location: Computer Sciences Corporation, India    Project: Client Modification Workflow  CMW is a web based j2ee application to automate and industrialize the process of client data modification in order to provide better visibility to client data management and better compliance to regulatories for AML and KYC.  Responsibilities:  • Lead the development activities for effective solutions and implementing it for bugs/enhancements.  • Developed code using Core Java/J2ee to implement technical enhancement following Java Standards.  • Implemented front end changes based on Struts1.3 with Spring DI and Java code as per requirement.  • Implemented middleware business services using EJB2.0 as part of enhancement.  • Responsible for implementing Hibernate2.0 changes and writing native PL/SQL queries.  • Responsible for a one-to-one communication to TIBCO using JMS.  Environment: WSAD5.x, WebSphere Application Server 5.x,, UNIX, Core Java 1.6, J2EE, EJB 2.0, Spring, Struts1.3, HTML, JSP, Oracle 10g/11g, SQL, PL/SQL, Toad 9.0, Log4J, JavaScript, Hibernate 3.0, Custom Ajax Tags, maven, SVN, JMS. Lead Java/J2ee Developer Goldman Sachs - New York, NY October 2010 to August 2013 Location: Infosys, India    Project: iWATCH - Trade Compliance Platform  It consists of three main modules/products as follows:  • Best Execution: This product deals with creation of policy for MiFID Best Execution, doing Pre-Trade analysis of unexecuted orders, post-trade reporting for various price benchmarks and other trend charts  • Trade Surveillance Platform: This product deals with creating a suite of trade compliance applications like Marking the Close, Front Running Large Orders, Circular Trading etc.  • TCA (Transaction Cost Analyzer): This product analyses the broker performance of a broker-dealer firm by using various performance benchmarks related to price, explicit cost, implicit cost and speed.  Responsibilities:  • Took ownership in understanding Trading Domain and related business scenarios.  • Creating functional and design documentations, development, testing and POC for all prosperous clients.  • Leading a Team of 8 members and playing the role of SRUM Master in Agile Methodology  • Implemented ACEGI security framework for authentication and authorization for in the web layer.  • Designed space architecture for implementing cloud computing leveraging GigaSpaces6.6XAP.  • Implementing iBATIS as ORM package for the persistence layer with Oracle using spring injection.  • Communication with Infosys Principle Consultants and Business Analysts.  Environment: Eclipse Europa 3.3, TOMCAT 5.5, UI, Struts1.3, Spring, ACEGI, Core Java 1.5, J2EE 1.4, JSP, GigaSpaces6.6XAP, Servlet, HTML, JDBC, iBatis, PL/SQL, CSS, Oracle 10g, XML, Log4j, JavaScript, VSS, BIRT, Fusion Charts. Senior Application Developer Equifax Personal Solutions - Atlanta, GA December 2007 to September 2010 Location: Infosys, India    Project: US Personal Solutions  The project involves enhancements of Equifax Personal Solutions application. It consists of minor/major enhancements of Equifax web site and bug fixing.  Responsibilities:  • Developed code using Core Java/J2ee to implement technical enhancement following Java Standards.  • Building front end changes based on Struts with JSP view and Java code as per requirement.  • Implemented middleware business services using EJB2.0 as part of enhancement.  • Responsible in implementing changes in persistence layer using Hibernate3.0 using Spring injection.  • Modification of existing Oracle stored procedures and writing SQL queries as per requirement using TOAD.  Environment: WSAD5.x, WebSphere Application Server 5.x, UNIX, Core Java 1.5, J2EE, EJB 2.0 Hibernate3.0, Spring, Struts1.3, HTML, JSP, Perl, JasperReports1.0.1, Oracle 9i, SQL, PL/SQL, Toad 9.0, Log4J, JavaScript, Ajax, Maven, SVN. Senior Java/J2ee Developer United Airlines Inc - Chicago, IL August 2005 to November 2007 Location: SkyTech Solutions, India    Project: AQUA (Aircraft Quality Audit)/AAM  AQUA is a quality audit tool developed to address the business needs of Aircraft Appearance customers. Responsibilities:  • Responsible for functional and detailed design documentations based on requirement documents.  • Web development with WRAPIT framework and designed user interface using JSP, JSTL Custom tags.  • Responsible for implementing EJB2.0 stateless session beans for the business layer in VSC.  • Implemented Session façade to provide MW integration of TUXEDO services to get flight information.  • Responsible for SSR (Special Service Request) implementation by integration with Corrigo web services  • Implemented POC for IVR in ETC application using prophecy-242-small-tts software tool and VXML  • Implemented the business tier for ClubSystems application using SOA based services of Ofbiz.  Environment: Eclipse 3.0, WRAPIT, Weblogic 10.0, Core Java 1.5, JSP, Servlet, EJB2.0, JDBC, HTML, SVN, SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle 10g, XML, Log4j, JavaScript, Taglib, UNIX, VXML, AltovaXMLSpy, OFBiZ, TOAD9.0 Education Bachelors of Technology in CSE Sikkim Manipal Institute of Technology (S.M.I.T) Skills Ajax (9 years), Application server (6 years), Eclipse (8 years), Ejb (8 years), Html (10+ years), Java (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), Jquery (3 years), Jsp (10+ years), middleware (8 years), Oracle (10+ years), Pl/sql (10+ years), Sql (10+ years), Struts (5 years), Subversion (8 years), Svn (8 years), Unix (10+ years), Weblogic (5 years), Websphere (6 years), Xml (5 years)