Java Technical Project Manager <span class="hl">Java</span> Technical Project Manager Java Technical Project Manager - Alight India Ltd/Wipro Ltd Work Experience Java Technical Project Manager Alight India Ltd/Wipro Ltd September 2017 to Present Directed tech support, developed strategic and tactical plans, drove change management, managed scope and resource constraints.  • Prepared stakeholder project plans, proposal assessment inputs, created customer implementation plans and provided real-time implementation support.  • Responsible for delivering full life cycle SDLC project and production releases  • Working closely with team, stakeholders and management to identify issues and if required escalate unresolved issues and communicate decisions to stakeholders. Java Tech Lead AON - Noida, UTTAR PRADESH, IN March 2014 to September 2017 Noida.  • Gathering requirements through client meetings, breaking them in HLD and assigning them in development team.  • Analyze, develop and support application code using Liferay Portal 6.0.  • Ensuring Module delivery in conformance with defined standards and the process being followed.  • Performing Unit Testing of the assigned module and documenting in HPQC.  • Manage and migrate application source code utilizing predefined tools and procedures.  • Provide detailed comprehensive documentation.  • Act as an offshore Work Package Owner for Liferay layer module (TBA), handling all day to day communication with onsite Project Manager, status reporting etc.  • Involved in planning and resource management. Acted as primary point of contact for offshore client side developers and facilitate communication between project members and teams. Sr. Developer Analyst AON Hewitt Noida - Noida, UTTAR PRADESH, IN June 2012 to March 2014 • Analyze, develop and support application code using Java technologies.  • Ensuring Module delivery in conformance with defined standards and the process being followed.  • Performing Unit Testing of the assigned module.  • Documenting the test cases in HPQC.  • Manage and migrate application source code utilizing predefined tools and procedures.  • Provide detailed comprehensive documentation. Developer Analyst/Sr. Soft Developer/Soft Developer Hewitt India Ltd August 2006 to June 2012 Being a team member involved in the Coding and Development of the assigned Module.  • Working in the team of 15 developers (Work Assessment and Reporting).  • Ensuring Module delivery in conformance with defined standards and the process being followed.  • Performing Unit Testing of the assigned module.  • Documenting the test cases in HPQC.  • Performing low level of analysis stuff along with designing as and when required. Education B.Tech Uttar Pradesh Technical University - Lucknow, U.P, IN May 2002 to June 2006 C.B.S.E. in Delhi K.C.M School - Moradabad, U.P, IN April 1997 to May 1998 B. Tech Information Tech Additional Information Skills    PM: Analysis, Planning, Executing, Monitoring, Closure, Mentoring, Quality Assurance    Methodology: Agile, Waterfall, Project Management    Web Technologies: Java, JSP, Web services, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, XML, Tag Library (JSTL, Custom tag library), Junit Testing, and Ajax    Client-Server: JDBC, Servlets    Tools: Liferay Studio, Eclipse, JIRA, MS Project    Database: Oracle, MYSQL, DB2, SQL Server    Web services: - SOAP    Case Tools: MS Visio    Frameworks: Liferay Portal 6.0, Liferay MVC, Spring, Struts    Design Pattern: Java Design Pattern, Core J2EE Design Pattern    Coding Repository: - CM Synergy 6.3, SVN, GIT (Bit Bucket)