Java/J2EE Lead <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE Lead Java/J2EE Lead - Capital One Vienna, VA ? Have 11+ years of software development experience in design and development of Enterprise Applications using Java and Java Enterprise frameworks and technologies.  ? 5 years of experience on working with AWS Cloud and Services mainly like creating infra stacks using EC2, ECS which is based on docker containers, Traffic routing and DNS using Route 53 and Elastic load balancers, cloud formation templates for infra automation.  ? Have strong Design Patterns, OOAD and Test Driven Development experience.  ? Hands-on experience on application programming frameworks like Spring, Spring MVC, Spring boot and web services using RESTful API and SOAP web services. Redis cache for state, apache camel and redhat fuse for workflow solutions.  ? Worked on UI Frameworks such as JavaScript/Typescript and Angular 6. For UI security worked on Shape and WAF configurations.  ? Worked extensively on core java concepts like OOP, Collections framework, Multi-threading, Exception handling, String, Generics, Java 8 concepts.  ? Expertise in developing Web services using SOA architecture using XML web service such as JAX-WS and JAX-RS.  ? Worked on Apache Spark and Hadoop frameworks on AWS EMR for batch data processing.  ? Expertise in using Testing frameworks such as Junit 4 and Mockito  ? Worked on CICD pipeline using Jenkins, AWS CLI, Sonar, Automated build and deployments from Git Repositories.  ? Worked on Testing frameworks like JMeter and Parasoft using Ruby and Cucumber.  ? Worked on Internet of Things (IOT) platforms like Axeda, ThingWorx, AWS IOT.  ? Domain experience in automotive standards like AUTOSAR, MSR. Knowledge on CAN, Flexray and LIN protocols.  ? Functional exposure on all the modules of Cabin Management Systems (CMS), In-Flight Entertainment Systems (IFE Systems) in Aerospace/Avionics Domain.  ? Well versed in principles of organizational development, team facilitation, group process, leadership development and ability to analyze situation and offer innovative cost effective solutions.  ? Worked in Agile Environment and capable of adapting to new eco-systems & environments.    HIGHLIGHTS:    ? Java /J2EE, Scala and Web Services  ? SpringBoot, Spring MVC, RESTful Web services  ? JavaScript/Typescript and Angular  ? JUnit and Mockito  ? AWS Services  ? Docker, Hadoop, Apache Spark  ? Splunk, Datadog, AWS Cloudwatch, New Relic, PagerDuty, ServiceNow  ? IOT Platforms - Axeda, ThingWorx, AWS IOT    ACCOMPLISHMENTS:  ? Certified Oracle Java Associate JDK 1.6 Work Experience Java/J2EE Lead Capital One - Vienna, VA November 2017 to Present Project Description  Consumer Identity - Clients pass specific policy identifiers to drive the workflow engine to allow for orchestrated calls to Customer Core, the Identity Verification Hub and Enterprise Enrollment. The Master Builder API allows clients to access the services provided by the Digital Customer Registration Platform (DCRP) for identifying, verifying and enrolling customers. These customers will be added to Customer Core and can be given SSO credentials as part of this process notification.    Responsibilities  ? Worked as a full stack Java/J2EE developer  ? Involved in Design and Development of the project.  ? Developed RESTful web services using Spring MVC design pattern.  ? Developed UI for registration and identification using AngularJS 4.  ? Implemented Consumer class for RESTful web services using RestClient.  ? Utilized proprietary frameworks limited to capital one for implementing encryption/decryption, encoding/decoding, enhanced logging and Exception handling.  ? Used testing frameworks such as Mockito, Junit for unit testing.  ? Dev-Ops using AWS Cloud offerings such as EC2, EC2 Container Services, Docker.  ? Involved in configuring Jenkin jobs for CD/CI for all the environment.  ? Worked on Scala & Spark- SQL & Data Frames for developing batch processing application.  ? Involved in Product life cycle.    Environment: JDK 1.8, AngularJS 4, Spring 4.x, MongoDB 3.x, Oracle, Apache Tomcat 8.x, AWS, Maven and Eclipse. Java/J2EE Lead Capital One - Wilmington, DE August 2016 to November 2017 Project Description  DMS-GUMBO, real time flow of banking alerts undergo validations, business rules processing and alert delivery through Email, SMS and Push Notification channels. Push Notifications are delivered via Apple APNS and Google GCM servers to  mobile devices.    Responsibilities  ? Worked as a full stack Java/J2EE developer  ? Worked on Scala & Spark- SQL & Data Frames for developing batch processing application.  ? Extensively used Java 8 concepts such as Functional Interfaces, Lambda Functions, Optional, DateTime, Stream and Java security.  ? Developed RESTful web services using Spring MVC design pattern.  ? Used testing frameworks such as Mockito, Junit for unit testing.  ? Worked on AWS cloud service and Migrating on-prime applications into Dockerized application.  ? Dev-Ops AWS Cloud offerings such as EC2, EC2 Container Services, Docker.  ? Involved in configuring Jenkin jobs for CD/CI for all the environment.  ? Involved in Product life cycle.    Environment: JDK 1.8, Scala, Spark, Spring 4.x, MongoDB 3.x, Oracle, Apache Tomcat 8.x, AWS, Maven and Eclipse. Java/J2EE Lead Flextronics, CA August 2015 to July 2016 Project Description:  Flextronics is on a strategic initiative to implement advanced automation in their shop floors and have envisioned and developed innovative robotic automation system like UBB. In order to leverage the fullest potentials of these  advancements there is a need to capture rich data from the shop floor and mash it up with traditional enterprise IT data to enhance productivity, enable quality improvements and improve collaboration with suppliers and customers.  Responsibilities:    ? Development of telemetry programs to capture sensor data for Temperature, Humidity, Force, Torque, Camera, barcode, RFID and Profilometer sensors from different manufacturers.  ? Worked on different communication protocols like PROFINET, EtherNet/IP, Socket Programming, TCP/IP, UDP, Serial protocols.  ? Working as Onsite Co-ordinator on project deliveries.  ? Daily Customer meetings, updates and discussions on the requirements and approaches.    Environment: JDK 1.7, Eclipse, JAX-RS 2.0, C#, Internet Of Things. JAVA / J2EE Lead Bayer Healthcare, PA June 2014 to July 2015 Project Description:    Bayer uses ServiceMax for field service management and Customer support, VirtualCare(based on Axeda Platform) for connected asset management. Currently, Salesforce.com and VirtualCare are not integrated with each other and there  is no data ex change between both the systems. Scope of this project is to create a solution that brings in machine data to Customer Service by integrating VirtualCare and SFDC Service Cloud to deliver proactive service.  Responsibilities:  ? Translation of business requirements into technical design  ? Write code/configuration of product per design specification  ? Implement web services  ? Unit Testing & Integration testing    Environment: JDK 1.6, Groovy and Grails, Axeda IOT Platform, log4j, Maven, Oracle 10g, SVN. JAVA / J2EE Developer Robert Bosch - Bengaluru, Karnataka December 2011 to March 2014 Project Description:  ISOLAR-A is AUTOSAR architecture tool and is based on Eclipse platform and has an open and extensible tool  architecture. ISOLAR-A is built on Eclipse technology and uses the Artop framework. ISOLAR-A also supports the mapping of a system design to individual ECUs including the definition of the operating systems, the tasks and the bus  communication networks. Direct generation of C code frames is also possible.  Responsibilities:  ? Module Lead and Onsite Co-ordinator.  ? Involved in Requirements gathering, Designing, Coding, Unit Testing, Integration Testing.  ? Supported Release Activities in Germany  ? Involved in Software development lifecycle using agile methodologies  Environment: JDK 1.6, Eclipse Plug-In Development, OSGI, EMF, GMF, SWT, JFace, SVN, Junit, log4j, ANT JAVA / J2EE Developer Venue Systems - Collins, CA March 2010 to November 2011 Project Description:  Venue Systems delivers the entertainment technology and variety of home electronics systems, incorporating  high-definition audiovisual capability, 16:9 displays, new media center devices and software programmable switch  panels to the aircraft cabins. It comprises High Definition Audio & Video Distributors, Lighting Systems, Flight Deck  Controllers, Music Centre Device, Touch Screen Controls, HDMs etc.  Responsibilities:  ? Prepared HLD and LLD for my features/modules.  ? Requirements gathering, Designing, Coding, Unit Testing, Integration Testing.  ? I have taken responsibility of PQA.  ? Trained new comers on domain and technical aspectson production support  Environment: JDK 1.6, Embedded Java, Linux, Shell Scripting, Eclipse Plug-In Development, OSGI, SWT, JFace, SVN, Junit JAVA / J2EE Developer IHS - Bengaluru, Karnataka March 2008 to February 2010 Project Description:  KAP is a web-based application to assess the knowledge of individual/group on a specific topic in particular  domain/technology. This application interacts with n numbers of Users through various interfaces. It provides the facility to conduct tests at various levels viz. Organization, Location, BU. This portal being a multi-user, UI driven web  based system supports client server architecture.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Coding, Unit Testing, Test cases preparation  ? Documented the Project Module  ? Requirements gathering, Designing, Coding, Unit Testing, Integration Testing.  Environment: JDK 1.6, Struts, EJB, SVN, Junit Education Bachelor of Technology in Mechanical Engineering in Mechanical Engineering G Pulla Reddy Engineering College Skills Java, Java J2Ee, Spring