Senior Java/J2EE Developer/Programmer Senior <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Programmer Senior Java/J2EE Developer/Programmer - State University of New York (SUNY) Albany, NY • Senior JAVA Consultant with More than 10 years of experience in the activities of analysis, design, development and maintenance of Software in web based and N-Tier architecture applications using Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, EJB, JMS, JDBC, Struts1.x/2.x, Spring3.x, Hibernate, Web services (Axis2, JAXB), AJAX, JSON and multithreading with using RDBMS Oracle on Unix and Windows environment.  • Strong experience in Agile, Scrum, UML, Rational Rose, Methodologies, Test Driven Methodologies and MVC based frameworks like Struts, Spring.  • Experience with Servlets 2.2/2.4/2.5 and JSPs 1.2/2.0/2.1, Struts 1.0/1.1/1.2/1.3 Framework, Tile Framework, Validation Framework, JavaScript, CSS, XML JSF, Primefaces and HTML for designing view controller components  • Comprehensive experience in designing applications using UML with Rational Rose.  • Expertise in developing n-tier enterprise level web applications using J2EE technologies including JSF, Richfaces, JSP, Servlets, Struts, Tiles, JDBC, EJB (Session, Entity and MDB), JNDI, JPA, JTA, JAAS, WS-Security, Java Mail, JMS, RMI, SOAP, WSDL, XML (SAX, DOM), JAXB, XSL, XSLT, AJAX, JavaScript, XHTML, HTML, CSS, ANT and MAVEN.  • Extensively worked on IBM Web Sphere Application Server (WAS), Web sphere Process Server (WPS), WebSphere MQ, Web Sphere Message Broker and SOA/ESB based applications.  • Good knowledge and experience in writing queries for SQL- Oracle 8i/ 9i/ 10g/11g/12C.  • Extensive experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Requirements Specification, Design documents and writing Test cases -Waterfall to Agile methodology.  • Good working knowledge on App server like, Weblogic 7.0/8.0/10.3.6, Tomcat 5.5 deploying applications.  • Experienced in developing applications using Eclipse, Struts framework using MVC II architecture, Hibernate & Spring.  • Experience in Jenkins Build system.  • Expert at bringing clarity and ease-of-use to complex systems and developing guidelines and frame works for system development.  • Experience in Onsite and Offshore and Global delivery models.  • Experienced in Institutional research (IR) data.  • Sound knowledge of internet security terms and framework of PKI, PGP, WS-Security etc  • Experienced in Higher Education information system and data. Work Experience Senior Java/J2EE Developer/Programmer State University of New York (SUNY) - Albany, NY November 2014 to Present 1) Projects: Open SUNY System & Micro - Credentials  Description: This Open SUNY system is used to Manage and store Open SUNY data of the academic programs. Open SUNY will provide users with flexibility to follow tacit rules that are not encoded in the system. Open SUNY will become the primary means to manage the attributes of Open SUNY academic programs. They modify the Open SUNY data and can add the Distance Education percentage for the academic programs they own.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented MVC design pattern.  • Responsible for developing enhancements using Eclipse maven for builds and deployed to WebLogic Application Server 10.3.6  • Developed web application for the front-end UI is used JSF and Primefaces UI components.  • Configured web.xml and faces-config.xml according to the JSF Framework.  • Developed Stateless Session beans which invoke Hibernate database calls.  • Wrote Hibernate Configuration file, hibernate mapping files and define persistence classes to persist the data into Oracle database.  • Used Apache Log4j for logging and debugging purposes.  • Used Clear Case for creating the project structure and version controlling.  • Used Jenkins for builds in development, test and production and performed testing the application.  • Used PL/SQL Developer for interacting with the Oracle11g Database for executing the queries.  • Used Quality Center for tracking of all the defects in the various environments.  • Used SVN for Version control.  Environment: Java 1.7, J2EE, JSP, HTML, XHTML, JSF, Primefaces 6.1, Hibernate, RESTful Web services, XML, XSD, WebLogic, Eclipse, Maven, Jenkins, Log4j, PL/SQL Developer, Oracle11g, SVN.    2) Project: DTS Learning Center  Description: Data Transfer System Learning Center Submissions is system to Manage and store Learning center data. The application is used only for the Learning center data submission to enter their Credit hours related information and displays the prior term submissions list it is a term submission. Once the submission is locked then it goes to next level for approval and after the approval finally gets stored to the database. As it is used for building the data warehouse and for generating BI reports.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented MVC design pattern using Spring Framework.  • Responsible for developing enhancements using Eclipse and deployed it on the WebLogic Application Server10.3.6  • Developed web application for the front-end UI is used JSF and Primefaces UI components  • Developed Stateless Session beans which invoke Hibernate database calls.  • Wrote Hibernate Configuration file, hibernate mapping files and define persistence classes to persist the data into Oracle database.  • Hibernate used as the ORM mapping tool and worked with Hibernate Query Language (HQL).  • Used Apache Log4j for logging and debugging purposes.  • Used Clear Case for creating the project structure and version controlling.  • Used Maven to build the project and JUnit to develop the unit test cases.  • Used Jenkins for Development, Test, and Production Builds.  • Used PL/SQL Developer for interacting with the Oracle11g Database for executing the queries.  • Used Quality Center for tracking of all the defects in the various environments.  Environment: Java 1.6, J2EE, JSP, HTML, XHTML, JSF, Primefaces 6.1, Spring, EJB, Hibernate, RESTful Web services, XML, XSD, WebLogic, Eclipse, Maven, Junit, Log4j, PL/SQL Developer, Oracle11g, SVN    3) Project: Academic Program Enterprise System  Description: This Apes system is used to Manage and store data on SUNY academic programs  Record the workflow for SUNY approval and SED registration of SUNY academic programs Maintain data for BI reporting on SUNY academic programs.  APES will provide users with flexibility to follow tacit rules that are not encoded in the system.  APES will become the primary means to manage the attributes of SUNY academic programs, regardless of whether SED is aware of those attributes.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented MVC design pattern using Spring Framework.  • Responsible for developing enhancements using Eclipse and deployed it on the WebLogic Application Server 10.3.6  • Developed Stateless Session beans which invoke Hibernate database calls.  • Wrote Hibernate Configuration file, hibernate mapping files and define persistence classes to persist the data into Oracle database.  • Used Apache Log4j for logging and debugging purposes.  • Involved in analysis and managing large volumes of data.  • Involved in Higher Education development and implemented business logic and rules  • Used Clear Case for creating the project structure and version controlling.  • Used Maven to build the project and performed testing the application.  • Used PL/SQL Developer for interacting with the Oracle11g Database for executing the queries.  • Used Quality Center for tracking of all the defects in the various environments.  Environment: Java 1.7, J2EE, JSP, HTML, Spring, EJB, Hibernate, RESTful Web services, XML, XSD, WebLogic, Eclipse, Maven, Junit, Log4j, PL/SQL Developer, Oracle11g, SVN    4) Project: Data Transfer System (DTS)  Description: Data Transfer System is system where System Administration's provides the user name and password for all campus of State University of New York to login to Data Transfer System application for submitting their data submissions which contains complete student history and make sure the given data is correct by using this data transfer application by with businesses rules. The Data Transfer System application has different modules in Student, Course, Degree, Student Rev, Financial aid, and EOT. This application is used by the all campus of SUNY and by System Admin's.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented MVC design pattern using Spring Framework.  • Responsible for developing enhancements using Eclipse and deployed it on the WebLogic Application Server10.3.6  • Developed Stateless Session beans which invoke Hibernate database calls.  • Wrote Hibernate Configuration file, hibernate mapping files and define persistence classes to persist the data into Oracle database.  • Hibernate used as the ORM mapping tool and worked with Hibernate Query Language (HQL).  • Used Apache Log4j for logging and debugging purposes.  • Used Clear Case for creating the project structure and version controlling.  • Used Maven to build the project and JUnit to develop the unit test cases.  • Used JSF, JSP, and Java Script, HTML, Prime faces and CSS for manipulating, validating, customizing, error messages to the User Interface.  • Used PL/SQL Developer for interacting with the Oracle11g Database for executing the queries.  • Used Quality Center for tracking of all the defects in the various environments.  Environment: Java 1.6, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, HTML, Spring, EJB, Hibernate, RESTful Web services, XML, XSD, WebLogic, Eclipse, Maven, Junit, Log4j, PL/SQL Developer, Oracle11g, SVN Sr. Java/J2EE Developer NetJets - Columbus, OH December 2013 to October 2014 Project: Current Crew Bidding System (CBS)  Description: The current Crew Bidding System (CBS) has been utilized for approximately five years and has provided a web interface for all pilots to submit preferences for various bid types. The goal of the project will be to automate manual processes associated with awarding and increase efficiency by integrating systems, unifying data, and utilizing technologies to enhance productivity. The goal is to create a Bidding platform that will allow the automated management and awarding of the following crew bids: PTO Monthly, PTO FC, Vacation Swap and Tour Swap.    Responsibilities  • Designed and developed the application using Waterfall Methodology and followed Scrum meetings, pair programming.  • Interacted coordinated with the Design team, Business analyst and end users of the system.  • Implemented MVC design pattern using Struts Framework.  • Design and Coding of Web Services to implement SOA.  • Developed the front end with Struts framework and the business components with EJB.  • Design and developed UI screens using AJAX, JSP, HTML and CSS.  • Developing User Interaction by using Java Script, XML.  • Developed the entire application using Eclipse and deployed it on the WebSphere Application Server 7.0 using NAF Server.  • Involved in analysis and managing large volumes of data.  • Used Factory, Singleton, Business Delegate, DAO and DTO patterns.  • Developed Stateless Session beans which invoke Hibernate database calls.  • Wrote Hibernate Configuration file, hibernate mapping files and define persistence classes to persist the data into Oracle database.  • Hibernate used as the ORM mapping tool and worked with Hibernate Query Language (HQL).  • Used Apache Log4j for logging and debugging purposes.  • Used Clear Case for creating the project structure and version controlling.  • Used Maven to build the project and JUnit to develop the unit test cases.  • Used PL/SQL Developer for interacting with the Oracle11g Database for executing the queries.  • Used Quality Center for tracking of all the defects in the various environments.  • Coordinated with the QA team in testing of the application in various environments.  Environment: Java 1.5, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, HTML, JavaScript, Struts, EJB, Hibernate, RESTful Web services, XML, XSD, WebSphere, SOA, Eclipse, NAF Server, Maven, Junit, Perl, Design Patterns, ClearCase, Quality Center, Log4j, PL/SQL Developer, Oracle11g Java/J2EE Developer Citigroup - New York, NY September 2012 to November 2013 Project: Online Banking Rebranding (OLBR)  Description: OLBR stands for Online Banking Rebranding. It is a web application that is part of the Citi Bank's e-banking main application site. Various products are hosted on the OLBR platform such as Checking, Saving, IRA etc. OLBR allows the users to apply for these products online. Each of these Products has Sub-Products along with its Features.    Responsibilities  • Involved in analysis of the business requirements and development of the SDLC by interacting with business users and developing the product using SCRUM, an Agile Methodology development.  • Developed Use Case Diagrams, Object Diagrams and Class Diagrams in UML using Rational Rose.  • Used AJAXAPI for intensive user operations and client-side validations  • Involved in designing the front end with JSP MVC Framework.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries, third party libraries and JQuery to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Inserted Dependency Injection between components using Spring.  • Achieved asynchronous communication using JMS message listeners and configured the JMS environment by setting up Queue and Topic connection factories.  • Used multithreading in programming to improve overall performance using Singleton design pattern in Hibernate Utility class.  • Implemented JSF ( Java Server Faces) in web-based applications for login, logout, locale settings, profile administration, account transactions and layout customization.  • Involved in analysis and managing large volumes of data.  • Involved in the implementation of the Service Locator, Business Delegate, Value Object and the Session Façade design pattern for the enterprises level functionality.  • Developed various Java beans for performance of business processes and effectively involved in Impact analysis.  • Involved in creating various Data Access Objects (DAO) for addition, modification and deletion of records using various specification files.  • Developed the web services by using WSDL, SOAP using SOA.  • Involved in Unit Testing of various modules by generating the Junit Test Cases.  • Developed Ant Scripts for the build process and deployed in IBM WebSphere 7.0.  • Involved in Bugfixing of various modules that were raised by the testing teams in the application during the Integration testing phase.  • Implemented Log4J 1.2 for Logging Errors, debugging and tracking using loggers, appenders components.  • Used IBM Rational ClearCase for version control and IBM ClearQuest for bug tracking.  • Adopt Agile Methodology to plan using JIRA.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Servlets ,Spring, Hibernate, Struts, JSF, EJB, WMQ, RESTful Web services, GWT, HTML, XHTML, SQL, WSDL, SOA, Java Mail, Velocity, jQuery, JSP, JAXB, XML, MySQL, JIRA. Java/J2EE Developer PNC Bank - Cleveland, OH October 2010 to August 2012 Project: PNC HELOC  Description: Home Equity Line of Credit (HELOC) is Web based home equity loan origination system for PNC lines of credit. It is a highly integrated with 40+ services to provide a centralized pricing and product offering platform. Spring based tool to consolidate multiple debts of existing home equity customers and offer eligible low rate products. It captures the financial condition, assets and liabilities of clients and present eligible credit options with PNC lines of credit.    Responsibilities  • Support these applications using the Change, Incident and Problem management branches of the ITIL framework.  • Migrated legacy J2EE alert services to Spring-Hibernate based application.  • Design and Coding of User Interfaces using JSP, AJAX, CSS and HTML.  • Design and Coding of Web Services to implement SOA.  • Extensively used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Used Rational Rose for the Use Case Diagrams, Activity Flow diagrams and Class Diagrams in design phase.  • Implemented JSF ( Java Server Faces) in web-based applications for login, logout, locale settings, profile administration, account transactions and layout customization.  • Involved in Information Services layer using Java Persistence API (Open JPA)  • Used Rational Application Developer [RAD 7.0] as the development tool for code generation.  • Involved in designing and developing applications using UML with Rational Rose.  • Used HTML and CSS to develop the application view component.  • Involved in using Apache Tomcat Server for deploying and testing the code.  • Involved in implementing Spring MVC Framework  • Implemented design patterns like Singleton, Factory, Template and DAO.  • Maven and JUnit are used effectively in development cycle.  • Monitor overall production systems performance and raise alarms to avoid production downtime.  • Communicate with Business Users and facilitate them with required data.  Environment: Java1.6, JSP2.0, Servlets, Java Script, AJAX, JSON, Spring, RESTful Web Services, Web sphere5.1, JAXB, JAX-WS, MySQL, XSD, XML, EJB3, SOA, Saxon, JMX, DOM, XML, DB2, Hibernate3.0, UML, SQL, TOAD, CVS, JUNIT, J2EE Design Patterns, Unix. Java Developer Deutsche Bank - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2009 to September 2010 Project: Account Transaction System  Description: Account Transaction System project contains two modules one was for customers to access their account information online and the other was for the bank employees to perform the day-to-day transactions in bank. This System provided the facility for the customer to look for information about his/her account status, balance, transferred the amount from one account to other, current transactions, and previous transactions. Another module of the system provided the features for bank authorities to open a new account, transfer of amount from other, renewal and cancellation of account. The system took care of different types of transactions like deposits, installments, and interest repayment on closure, penal charges for delayed installments, and penal charges for premature closure. The front-end frames were developed that used JSP.    Responsibilities  • Involved in the development of UI using Form Beans and JSP pages using JSP Taglibs.  • Used struts MVC for building the application framework.  • Developed EJB components in the application framework.  • Developed stateful session beans for account transaction module.  • Used components to create an enterprise Information Hub based on Message Oriented Middleware.  • Mentored peers in the use of Java technology.  • Responsible for creating the customized Crystal Reports using Business Objects.  • Leveraged ANT, JUnit and log4j open-source projects.  • Developed the presentation layer and GUI framework that are written using HTML and Client-Side validations were done using JavaScript  • Involved in handling complex and large data.  • Developed Entity Beans where transaction persistence is required.  • Used WebLogic Application Server and Eclipse IDE.  • Prepared the DB SQL queries in Oracle  • Involved in Unit Testing and Integration Testing.  Environment: Java 1.4, J2EE 1.3, J2EE Architecture, STRUTS, 1.2 MVC, WebLogic Application Server, Java, JSP, JNDI, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, JavaScript, XML, XPATH, XQUERY, EJB2.0, JDBC, Oracle9i, JavaBeans, Saxon, Windows, Linux Education Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science JNTU Skills BEA, ECLIPSE, EJB, J2EE, JAVA