Java/J2EE Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/J2EE Developer - Citigroup Inc Mesquite, TX • Over 4 years of IT experience in utilizing Java tools in Business, Web, and Client-Server environments using the latest Java/J2EE technologies for analysis, design, development, re-engineering, maintenance, installation, implementation and testing on various platforms.  • Proficiency in developing Model View Controller (MVC) Architecture based applications using Spring Frameworks.  • Proven expertise in implementing IOC and Dependency Injection features in various aspects of Spring Framework (Core, Web, JDBC, MVC and DAO).  • Experience in Hibernate which includes integrating legacy databases, writing custom CRUD statements, integrating stored procedures and functions and also performed polymorphic associations.  • Experience in developing UI using JSP, Spring MVC, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery and AJAX.  • Experience in working with web/applications servers WebSphere, WebLogic, JBoss and Apache Tomcat.  • Thorough knowledge of scalable n-tier, distributed as well as client/server architectures.  • Experience in designing Low Level and High-Level design documents.  • Familiar with the use of design patterns including MVC, Singleton, Front Controller and Data Access Object patterns.  • Experience in implementing SOA architectures with Web Services using WSDL, SOAP and REST.  • Experience in PL/SQL programming including complex SQL queries using stored procedures and Triggers.  • Intermediate proficiency in shell scripting and developed various scripts for application log files compression, archival, cleanup operations.  • Hands on experience in working on XML Suite of technologies (XML, XSL, XSLT, DTD, XML Schema, SAX, DOM).  • Proactive and well organized with effective time management skills.  • Strong interpersonal and communication skills and self-motivated individual showing ability to learn and use new technologies and frameworks in considerably less time. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java/J2EE Developer Citigroup Inc - Irving, TX July 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Interacted with Clients to collect business requirements, to analyze and design the system and designed various UML Diagrams.  • Used Spring framework features including Spring MVC, Spring DAO, Spring AOP and Spring Templates.  • Integrated the application with Spring framework for implementing Dependency Injection and provide abstraction between presentation layer and persistence layer.  • Developed application using Spring MVC, JSP, JSTL and AJAX on the presentation layer, the business layer is built using Spring and the persistent layer uses Hibernate.  • Designed and developed front-end using JSP, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and Angular.  • Used Angular for the interaction between the JavaScript validation and dynamic HTML pages.  • Worked on highly incorporated application development frameworks (spring) to build persistent and reliable application modules.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST API s and Spring Boot for micro-services.  • Extensively using Core Java such as Multi-Threading, Exceptions, and Collections.  • Developed POJO's, Data Access Object (DAO) which handles all database operations using Hibernate.  • Worked on Oracle as the backend database and integrated with Hibernate to retrieve Data Access Objects.  • Developed Web Services to communicate to other modules using XML based SOAP and WSDL protocols.  • Automated the process using Shell scripts.  • Knowledge of PostgreSQL for DBMS supporting.  • Automate any given manual task using Shell Scripting.  • Helping team members to debug issues with the application and designed and prepared Unit test case using JUnit and Log4j and removed the maximum bugs before passing on the application to the QA team.  • Wrote build and deployment scripts using ANT scripts.  • Developed the application on Eclipse and deployed the application on JBoss to integrate run time components and the tools to develop applications.    Environment: Java 1.6, J2EE, Spring 3.2, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Servlets, XML, Angular, JSP, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Apache Tomcat, SOAP, Oracle, PL/SQL, JMS, XML, Eclipse, Log4j, ANT, Unix, JUnit, GIT, PCF, Windows. Java/J2EE Developer Mckesson Corporation - Irving, TX November 2016 to July 2018 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the application on Eclipse IDE utilizing the Spring framework and MVC Architecture.  • Used Spring to build presentation layer and used Spring Validation Framework for client-side validation.  • Implemented various Design Patterns on the project and developed Action Forms and Controllers in Spring.  • Designed the data layer using a combination of SOAP, Restful web services and occasionally Hibernate ORM.  • Implemented a Middle tier using Spring MVC to process client requests and implement server-side code to be executed.  • Developed business components using Spring boot, IOC, AOP, Spring annotations and created user detail service for authentication.  • Used Spring MVC for Servlet configurations both during application development and test.  • Consumed REST based Microservices with Rest template based on RESTful APIs.  • Designed and developed front-end using JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Developed multiple formatting, validation utilities in Java, jQuery and JavaScript functions and CSS so that they can be reused across the application.  • Designed and developed XSLT transformation of components to convert data from XML to HTML.  • Developed the PL/SQL scripts for rebuilding the application Database.  • Worked on MySQL as the back-end database for the data storage and retrieval of the data.  • Performed multiple code reviews, unit and system testing of application to ensure that the application is working as per the business requirement.  • Worked WebSphere Application Server to develop and run application.  • Wrote build and deployment scripts using ANT and Maven on Windows environment.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Servlets, Eclipse, WebSphere, Spring MVC Apache Tomcat, SOAP, RESTful, JSP, Linux, JSTL, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML, CSS, PL/SQL, MySQL, JUnit, ANT, Maven, JMS, SVN, Windows. Jr. Java/J2EE Developer Molina Healthcare - Dallas, TX January 2015 to October 2016 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for creation of Class Diagrams, Sequence and Activity diagrams, classes using Rational Rose and UML.  • Responsible for coding the business logic using Spring MVC.  • Used Spring AOP for cross cutting concerns like logging, security and transaction management.  • Designed and Developed Java classes, XML Mapping files and Service classes to use Hibernate API.  • Developed in creating a web interface using JSP, DHTML and HTML.  • Developed multiple formatting, validation utilities in Java, JavaScript functions and CSS.  • Developed Entity Beans and Session Beans (Stateful and Stateless) to implement the back-end business logic to register a new user and existing user related functions.  • Created RESTful API to fetch data from Oracle database and return JSON format data, then this data will be used for displaying questions and generating reports.  • Wrote SQL queries, stored procedures, and triggers to perform back-end database operations by using DB2 database.  • Debugged, tested and documented code fixes for production issues working with both on shore and offshore resources.  • Used various Core Java concepts such as Exception Handling, Collection APIs to implement various features and enhancements.  • Developed the application on Eclipse IDE to have an easy and guiding code environment.  • Implemented SVN configuration management tool for code versioning and release.  • Deployed Enterprise application using WebLogic Application Server.  • Used Maven tool for building and packaging the application.  • Unit test and writing Test scripts using JUnit Framework.    Environment: Java, J2EE, UML, Spring, Hibernate, OOAD, Eclipse, Apache Tomcat, WebLogic, HTML, XML, XSLT, DHTML, JavaScript, jQuery, JSP, TOAD, DB2, PL/SQL, JMS, SVN, Maven, Log4j, JUnit. Education Bachelor of Computer Science in Information System in Computer Science The University of Texas at Arlington - Arlington, TX Associate of Computer Science in Computer Science Richland College - Richardson, TX Skills Apache (4 years), database (4 years), Eclipse (4 years), Java (4 years), JavaScript (4 years), JMS (4 years), jQuery. (3 years), JSP (4 years), JUnit (4 years), Model View Controller (4 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (4 years), MVC (4 years), Oracle (2 years), PL/SQL (4 years), SQL (4 years), Subversion (3 years), SVN (3 years), Tomcat (4 years), XML (4 years), XSLT (3 years), Spring, Java J2Ee, Hibernate, J2Ee Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Programming Languages Core Java 1.8, SQL, PL/SQL, C, C++.  Java Technologies Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JNDI.  Frameworks MVC, Spring 3.2, Hibernate and JDBC.  Distributed Technologies SOAP/REST, SOA, RMI, XSLT, XSD, DOM, SAX, Apache, WSDL.  Web/Application Servers JBoss, Apache Tomcat, WebSphere, WebLogic.  IDEs Eclipse, My Eclipse, JDeveloper, NetBeans.  Scripting Languages Angular, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS3.  Markup Languages HTML5, DHTML, XML.  Database Server Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server, DB2.  Methodologies OOPS/OOAD, UML, Design Patterns, Agile.  Other Tools GIT, SVN, CVS, JUnit, Log4j, JMS