Mobile Developer Mobile <span class="hl">Developer</span> Mobile Developer - Kaleido Health Solutions Inc Pheonix, AZ • 10+ years of professional experience in Developing, Testing, Integrating, Implementing the User Interface (UI) Application, Mobile and Web based applications.  • Experience in Developing User Interface (UI) Rich Mobile and Web Applications using Front End/User Interface (UI) Technologies like HTML5, XHTML, DHTML, XML, Object Oriented JavaScript, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, Angular2, Ionic, JSON, Bootstrap Framework, Ajax, CSS2/3, Media Queries, CSS Frameworks, CSS Sprite, SASS.  • Good experience with JavaScript MVC framework Angularjs and knowledge on other frameworks likeAngular2.  • Developed enterprise-level JAVA applications utilizing XML, JSON, Restful-based web services, JavaScript, HTML, Angular JS and a Modern UI framework such as Bootstrap CSS.  • Experience of Web 2.0, JavaScript, JQuery, W3C Standards.  • Expert in designing web applications and web contents utilizing various Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques.  • Used SVN, CVS, Harvest, Clear case and Clear Quest for Version controlling and error reporting.  • Profound knowledge in working with Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM Functions.  • Experience in developing web applications supporting different browsers like IE6-IE9, Mozilla Firefox, Safari and Google Chrome.  • Expertise in debugging and troubleshooting existing code using Firebug and Developer Tools (Chrome).  • Experience on working with CSS Background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors in CSS.  • Experience using all popular text-Editors like Eclipse, Komodo Edit, Sublime Text, and Notepad++, Visual Studio Code, Atom.  • Experience in Web 2.0 applications like blog maintenance, Library Management, Social Networking using HTML, DHTML, and JavaScript.  • Build user interfaces differently by breaking them into components using ReactJS and used a real, full featured programming language to render views, with ReactJS.  • Experiences on the front-end use HTML5, CSS3, ReactJS, jQuery and Bootstrap to build a single page web app that communicate with back-end via RESTfulAPI.  • Experiences on ReactJS to implement rich functions in various pages: form validation, crud, grid list, search, sort, pagination, multi-selection, tags-input, advanced/custom directives, authentication, unit tests, etc.  • Experience on using Electrode platform used to build universal applications using React/NodeJS applications. Involved in developing of design documents with UML class diagrams.  • Proficient with Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator & Dreamweaver, MS FrontPage.  • Expertise in analyzing the DOM Layout, Java Script functions, Cascading Styles across cross-browser using Fire Bug, Developer Tool Bar.  • Experience in configuration management systems like SVN and GIT-HUB.  • Experience in Agile methodologies such as Extreme Programming, Waterfall Model and Test Driven Development.  • Experience with Version Control tools like CVS and SVN for Source Code version management and merging Source code after intermittent Project releases.  • Quick learner with good analytical and communication skills coupled with a proactive attitude and good team spirit. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Mobile Developer Kaleido Health Solutions Inc - New York, NY May 2016 to Present Responsibilities  • Xamarin / C# cross-platform software engineer - developed a medical patient/clinician interactive mobile app, targeting iPhone and Android devices.  • Developed and designed client side data services and Web API services.  • Developed sign on, account creation, security questions and Multi Factor Authentication verification views, using Xamarin Forms.  • Integrated Twilio SMS + Email to provide Multi Factor Authentication verification codes.  • Created custom Xamarin extension class and custom renders, to target platform specific iPhone and Android versions.  • Developed custom Xamarin Forms user controls in XAML.  • Coded location services and Maps - developed geo-coding and reverse geo-coding classes.  • Coded KeyChain and KeyStore access and storage, of user credentials.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular.js, Eclipse, Xcode, Android Studio, RAD, STS, SoapUI, Ionic, SASS, Ionic 2, Angular2, Visual Studio Code, Typescript. UI/Web Developer America Online - Dulles, VA August 2014 to April 2016 Responsibilities  • Worked on the website from start to finish to give it a new look using HTML5, CSS and JavaScript.  • Designed and Developed front-end UI using HTML5, CSS3, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY.  • Designing and developing dynamic web pages using XHTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed CSS styles to maintain the uniformity of all the screens throughout the application and positioning of screen objects.  • Coded extensively in jQuery with Bootstrap to make rich Internet web pages and created custom date picker on the website.  • Developed mockups and prototypes using HTML5 and CSS3.  • Performed two way data binding in Angularjs framework to synchronize the data between model and view.  • Developed the online chat interface for the anonymous communication between mentors and clients.  • Experience in support for better error management and debugging using FusionCharts.  • Built main application in Python, Django leveraging technologies such as Tastypie, Angular.js.  • Experience on building rich business apps on the web usingAngular.js.  • Developed the administrative UI using Angular.js.  • Built reusable and customizable components for the new website using ReactJS and React-Routes to create a single page web application  • Developed Header and Footer of web app as a UI component in ReactJS  • Created components using Electrode which is a universal React/NodeJS application  • Implementing dynamical web pages using ReactJS  • Developed Single Page Application (SPA) using ReactJS.  • Written Callbacks and worked with Streams and Files for Asynchronous Programming using NodeJs.  • Used Express MVC framework for NodeJS to create the routes required for delivering data to the front end.  • Used NodeJS REPL feature to experiment and Debug javascript code and leveraged HTML5 features with cross-browser compatibility using Ext.JS framework.  • Designed and Developed Web application using CSS pre-processors.  • Experience in providing a few chart configuration parameters like "Animate Chart" and "Show Values" to enrich end-user experience using FusionCharts.  • Developing & Customizing UI JavaScript Plug-ins using JQuery, Object Oriented JS and JSON.  • Design website and maintain the website content up to date.  • Used CVS for version Repository maintenance.  • Cross browser compatibility check and thoroughly performed unit testing and integration testing.  • Implemented various Validation Controls for client-side validation and implemented custom validation controls.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular.js, Reactjs, Nodejs, Bootstrap, JSON. Web Developer Progressive Insurance - Cleveland, OH September 2011 to July 2014 Responsibilities  • Involved in Agile/full software development lifecycle i.e from Designing, coding, testing, debugging and support.  • Modified the UI screens created by web designer using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Involved in developing Front End Programming for Web applications.  • Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, Angularjs, Wire-framing and HTML5.  • Worked with Internal Clients for business objectives, project scope and the requirements of the project.  • Creating cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  • Implemented custom validation controls for various forms with help of JavaScript validation controls.  • Designed CSS3 based web pages which were cross-browser compatible and also using SASS and LESS.  • Created screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards.  • Have experience working on FusionCharts for providing and updating chart data using JSON url as the chart data source.  • Used Ember.js in combining both tools and concepts of native GUI frameworks with support for the feature that makes the web so powerful: the URL.  • Used AngularJS framework for building web-apps and is highly efficient with PHP framework as well as using Restful services.  • Documented the tech design artefacts and socialized with the key stakeholders for approval.  • Accountable for various programming tasks as well as manage multiple web applications owned by the company.  • Involved in extensive HTML5 coding.  • Involved in writing stored procedures, queries, triggers and views and used them in the JavaScript.  • Responsible for Daily maintenance and improvement of live website using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery.  • Debugged the application using Firebug and traversed through the nodes of the tree using DOM functions.  • Developed page layouts, navigation, animation buttons and icons.  • Performing the different modules like login, search and download with tracking.  • Designed CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant.  • Used extensive JavaScript programming to give AJAX functionality for the website.  • Used agile method for requirements gathering.  • Further tasks include management of all MySQL database and all the required tables to store different survey information related to the site.    Environment: HTML4/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, Bootstrap, Photoshop, Dreamweaver, Illustrator, AngularJS, SQL and Tomcat Web Developer Citi Bank - New York, NY November 2009 to August 2011 Responsibilities  • Created HTML, CSS, JavaScript and DHTML pages for Presentation Layer.  • Involved in developing of design documents with UML class diagrams.  • Developed the User Interactive webpages in a professional manner with using web technologies like HTML, XHTML and CSS as per company's standards.  • Implemented various Search Engine Optimization techniques as metadata, building inbound link, and outbound link text, meaningful title while designing web pages.  • Involved in JavaScript coding for validations, and passing attributes from one screen to another.  • Built HTML and CSS system for controlling text display issues cross-platform and cross browser.  • Updating pages using HTML, CSS in Angular.js framework.  • Implemented AJAX to enhance the capability of the website.  • Used Bootstrap and media queries to create a responsive website that fit all users and devices from desktop to tablet and mobile phone.  • Perform web optimization on websites and web services for improved functionality over cross browsers and platforms  • Used Firebug and IE Developer Toolbar for debugging and browser compatibility.  • Used CSS Blueprint to create grids and adopt cross browser interactive features.  • Implemented Coherence Cache, which can be used with Spring Annotations.  • Developed a fully functional prototype application using JavaScript and Bootstrap, connecting to a REST-ful server on a different domain.  • Used all the advanced Photoshop features to create appealing visual web interfaces.  • Increased developer productivity by using efficient programming methodologies and local development.  • Managed application state using server and client-based State Management options.  • Handled all aspects of the web application including maintaining, testing, debugging, deploying and printing.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, XML, JSON, Photoshop, Eclipse, Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome, Windows. Java Developer T.Rowe Price - Owings Mills, MD June 2007 to October 2009 Responsibilities  • Designed the website and created/developed web interfaces.  • Created graphics including Icons, Images and logos using Adobe Flash Catalyst.  • Created appropriate concept models, site organization, navigation, page layouts and interaction to support company's needs and goals.  • Used Dreamweaver's HTML Editor for designing new pages.  • Developed HTML prototype documents with CSS Style Sheets.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  • Did Cross - Browser coding, for making pages compatible will all browsers.  • Unit Testing and Regression Testing of Web Application.  • Created JSP pages for each participant involved in the event.  • Maintaining the Bug reports and tracking the status of the bugs.  • Deployed the Application using Apache Tomcat Application server.  • Created Java Beans for Clients search engine based on address, and user specific interest.  • Created JSP/Servlets Pages for the search Engine related to product promotions and events.  • Enhanced website by creating presenting new static models pages and presenting it to senior management for attracting the customers and existing users.  • Performed validation of completed sites including the debugging and testing of code.    Environment: Java, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, CSS, JSP, Servlets, Tomcat, Adobe Flash, SQL, Oracle and Windows. Education Bachelor's Skills JAVASCRIPT (10+ years), BOOTSTRAP (6 years), SASS (5 years), TOMCAT (5 years), jQuery (4 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Web Technologies: HTML4.0/5, CSS2/CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, JQuery  Framework: Angular JS, Angular2, Kendo UI, Bootstrap, Ionic  IDE & Tools: Eclipse, MS Visual Studio, Notepad++, RAD, STS, Xcode, Android Studio  Debugging Tools: Firebug, Dev Tools, Fiddler, Chrome, Webstorm 7  Languages: C, C++, C#, ASP.Net, MVC, Objective-c  Operating Systems: Windows XP/Vista/7/8, MAC OS  Application Server: JBOSS, Apache Tomcat, IBM Websphere