Java Development Tech Lead <span class="hl">Java</span> Development Tech Lead Java Software Engineer Minnetrista, MN Diversely skilled Java developer bringing more than 15 years in software development, including team lead experience. Advanced knowledge of front- and back-end Java and Groovy. Committed to efficiency, automation, and making the hard stuff easier. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Development Tech Lead Ameriprise Financial - Minneapolis, MN March 2019 to Present • JAVA/J2EE programming language utilizing Spring framework in multithreaded systems  • RESTful services with security/availability/performance aspects  • Strong systems fundamentals related to performance, scale and factors inside/outside the JVM that impact the system  • Expertise on GIT and Maven usage  • Experience in Micro Services development  • Exposure in any Actor based framework like Akka Senior Software Engineer Optum - Eden Prairie, MN May 2016 to March 2019 Developer for Cirrus, a scalable application for automating claim adjudication, benefit coverage, and member administration.  * Reduced security vulnerabilities identified by Fortify by 67% during Dev Ops rotation on Production Support.  * Launched Cirrus on time and achieving goal of 90% auto-adjudication.  * Recognized for contributions to training, onboarding, and bug-free code.  * Technical Environment: Java 8/Groovy, JSPs, Spring, Maven, SOA, MySQL, JQuery, IntelliJ Software Engineer III Lifetouch - Eden Prairie, MN June 2013 to May 2016 Customized and improved 16 enterprise applications for field photographers.  * Promoted from Software Developer II to Team Lead in 2015.  * Spearheaded performance refactor, including scanning app from 10 seconds to less than 1 second  * Oversaw and prioritized issues for team of 9 QA and Dev employees.  * Technical Environment: Grails 2.2.4 / Java 7, ExtJS 4.1, Spring, Oracle, AOP, StatsD, IntelliJ Senior Java Developer Eagle Creek Software Services - Edina, MN February 2012 to June 2013 Principal consultant with companies such as Walmart and University of Arizona to implement Java applications.  * Interviewed other contractors and mentored new trainees.  * Supervised team of three out-of-college off-site developers. Interviewed other contractors and mentored new trainees  * Technical Environment: Java 1.6, J2EE, JSP, Struts 2.0, Hibernate, JSTL, Spring, Eclipse, MySQL Java Developer BI, Inc - Eden Prairie, MN March 2008 to February 2012 Developed and debugged software products for customized reward programs.  * Developed for 12+ different applications (including mobile) for Verizon, Scion, Hertz, and more.  * Quick turnaround time demanded by high profile customers: Most new features developed, tested, and deployed within a few days. Most bugs required one-day resolution.  * Created miniware programs for BI to make loose development cycle easier. Reduced log research time from 20 minutes to 1 minute and lost time (~20 minutes) from server restarts.  * Technical Environment: Java 1.6, J2EE, JSP, Struts 1.1/2.0, Ajax, Hibernate, Spring, Glassfish Java Developer Paisley Consulting - Plymouth, MN March 2006 to March 2008 Customized and improved 16 enterprise applications for field photographers.  * Implemented miniware program for offline archival. Converted multi-tier web application into local app meant for asynchronous data consolidation.  * Technical Environment: Java 1.5, J2EE, JSP, Struts 1.1, JDBC, WSAD Education Bachelor of Arts in Software Engineering University of Wisconsin - Eau Claire, WI 2003 Skills Java (10+ years), jQuery (4 years), JSP (10+ years), Groovy (8 years), HTML (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), Linux, Java J2Ee, Hibernate, Javascript, Spring, J2Ee Additional Information Skills    • Java 1.4 - 1.8  • Groovy/Grails  • HTML, XML, and JSP  • JavaScript, Jquery, ExtJS 4.1  • JUnit and Spock  • Project management  • Documentation and written communication  • Process improvements