Senior Java Developer Senior <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Java Developer - Royal Bank of Canada (RBC)/IRIS Software Inc Jersey City, NJ ? 13+ years of Senior Developer/Technology lead experience, primarily on Front Office and Middle Office applications based on Java/J2EE technology stack.  ? Around 8 years' experience of working with Capital Market & Finance domain clients, worked with leading investment banks & financial service providers.  ? Subject matter expert on Bloomberg BPIPE, Reuter Market Data System (RMDS) and Solace High Speed Caching Solution.  ? Expertise in developing real time application (pricing engine) to provide low latency and handle high frequency data.  ? Sound knowledge and experience of complete software development life cycle and different methodologies like Agile development, SOA, Test Driven Development, MVC. Experience in both Front End (JSP, HTML, JSON, JavaScript, XML, Servlet) and Back end developments (EJB, Web Services, SOAP, JDBC, PLSQL, Databases).  ? Good understanding of Fixed Income instruments and associated workflows  ? Experience in performing data analysis, performance tuning (JVM using profiling tools like JProfiler, JVisualVM, JConsole and Database objects), writing automated test Suites and monitoring suites using JMX and providing inputs for technology gaps for faster and reliable system.  ? Conversant of Quality Processes and Defect Prevention methods. Executed projects with high degree of Quality standards. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Senior Java Developer Royal Bank of Canada (RBC)/IRIS Software Inc July 2013 to Present Technologies Core Java 8, Java Mutilthreading, Collections, Lambda Expression, Java Streams, Spring, Spring Integration, Spring Batch, JPA, Hibernate, RESTFul Web service with Java Spark, Solace, Tibco Streambase, Nashorn Java Script, SQL Server 2014  • Key member of team who developed Automated Pricing Engine using Open Source technologies and Tibco Streambase to retire 37 years old Mainframe Trading System.  • Developed new application with RESTFul Web services and Solace as middleware and retired Tib RV based application.  • In-house Analytics API migration in Pricing Engine to provide accurate prices.  • Developed customized Priority Queue to handle high frequency benchmark vs user entered data.  • Developed application to source live market data from Bloomberg and Reuters and publish on Solace to be consumed by downstream application  • Developed application to snap live price and avail to multiple agencies on Solace and Bloomberg TOMS.  • Developed application with Caffeine cache and Spring AOP to reduce the time and to save CPU cycles while do the pricing Calculation  • Developed custom Java annotations with Spring and exposed as the API to be use in place of repeated code.  • Used Java 8 Nashorn engine with Spring Integration to support dynamic loading of frequent change business rules.  • Developed application to support dynamic Strip curve and enhanced the pricing engine to use strip curve.  • Setup project environment on new Linux QA and Production machines.  • Retirement of legacy RMDS and migrate complete set of application on Solace.  • Troubleshoot problems reported by Trading Desk.  • Troubleshooting problems pertaining to performance application conflicts and Bugs.  • Addressing queries, looking after all bugs while running the application on different environment.  • Development and Maintenance of a set of applications (150+).  • Production releases and post release support for new features/products. Technology Lead Orange Business Service/ Infosys Technologies - Chandigarh, Chandigarh November 2011 to June 2013 Technologies Core Java 6, Java Mutilthreading, Collections, Spring, Hibernate, RESTFul and SOAP Web service with Apache CFX, Java Server Faces (JSF)    • Lead a team of 8 people, Ensuring the high quality and timely delivery of the code through adherence to defined standards, policies and procedures  • Requirement gathering, designing the best solution to fulfil the requirement of client  • Development, unit testing, code review, package production ready to be deliver to client  • Improved key application performance by approx. 100 times ( from 200 minutes to 2 minutes)  • Retirement of legacy mainframe Tariff Billing Tool used by Orange Business Service with very interactive J2EE application. Core Java Developer Wellington Management Company (WMC) / Sapient Global Market - Noida, Uttar Pradesh June 2010 to November 2011 Technologies Core Java 6, Java Mutilthreading, Collections, Spring, Oracle Stored Procedure, SQL Functions    • Design and Developed application to extract data from Intex and upload in Oracle database for analysis.  • Used External tables (flat files) with stored procedure to upload bulk data  • SQL tuning of stored procedure to improve the performance of batch jobs Java Developer Morgan Stanley / Headstrong - Noida, Uttar Pradesh June 2009 to May 2010 Technologies Core Java 6, Java Mutilthreading, Collections, Spring, Hibernate, SOAP Web service with Apache Axis, Google Web Toolkit (GWT)    • Team member of the team who developed Client Data Affirmation system, designed to store the client data gathered from affirming client data process and generate affirmation summary  • Performance improvement of Risk Analysis application used by PWM Risk managers.  • Coding, Unit testing, Code review of team members Java Developer Goldman Sachs / Headstrong - Noida, Uttar Pradesh January 2008 to December 2008 • Replace legacy (CGI-Perl) Geneva Portfolio Management system with J2EE.  • During development time, bug fixing and enhancement of old system. Java Programmer ACOM / Nucleus Software Exports Ltd - Noida, Uttar Pradesh December 2006 to December 2007 • HTML prototype of Loan management system (more than 350) screens using Axure tool  • Part of team who worked on coding and unit testing of Loan Management system Education Master's in Master of Computer Application Galgotias Institute of Mgmt and Technology - Greater Noida, Uttar Pradesh July 2002 to June 2005 Skills Bea, Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Java J2Ee Certifications/Licenses Sun Certified Java Programmer November 2007 to Present Sun Certified Java Programmer ( Java 1.5)