Sr.Hybris Developer Sr.Hybris <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Team Lead • 4+ years of experience in SAP Hybris 1811,6.3, 5.X.  • 12 years of Experience in IT Industry on eCommerce and Banking encompassing a wide range of skill sets and roles.  • The key areas of my skill are in SAP Hybris 1811, 6.3, 5.7, Java 8, J2EE, RESTFUL Web services, Hibernate 3.0, Spring 4.0, Struts 1.3, Apache CXF Web services, OSB, Oracle SOA , JMockit and Rest Assured.  • Experience in Hybris commerce Suite, Hybris Management Console (HMC), Hybris Admin Console (HAC), Backoffice, and Product Cockpit.  • Experience in Data Modeling, SAP Hybris OCC, HMC Customization, Addons, Solr search, Event Handling and Cronjobs.  • Experience in Hybris Integration with SAP ECC for Master Data, Transactional Data and Order Management and various third-party integrations.  • Experience in Hybris Promotions and Rule Engine.  • SAP Hybris integration with SAP master data via SAP PI/ SAP Hybris hot folders/Data Hub/Web-methods using Rest API and Hybris cronjobs.  • Good Knowledge and hands on experience of setting up Datahub environment.  • Experience in Sales Force integration with SAP PI using Rest API.  • Experience in writing search restrictions, flexible queries and Impex queries.  • Experience in user roles-based restrictions api's.  • Experience in Invoices, Receiving, Carts, Supporting Services and OMS.  • Good experience in developing business process services.  • Good experience in Integration with SAP ECC using RFC Calls.  • Good experience in Google Tag Manager and Google Analytics.  • Experience in JNDI, JDBC, HTTP/SOAP, XSD, XML, JAXB, XPATH, XSLT  • Expertise in SOA, Orchestration and Integration Technologies in the areas of Web Services, ESB, SOAP, WSDL, XML, XSD, UDDI, XML and Web services Security.  • Integrated SonarQube pmd rules to the application  • Experience in API testing using Rest Assured.  • Good understanding of SVN, Maven, Bit bucket, Quick Build, GIT and Jenkins for Build and Release Management.  • Thorough Understanding of Agile Methodologies.  • Accomplished many challenging integrations between various heterogeneous systems and developed highly challenging and complicated workflows using the above products.  • Experienced and Adept with development tools like IntelliJ, JDeveloper, RAD and Eclipse.  • Thorough Understanding of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), involved in various phases like Requirements, Analysis/Design, Development and Testing. Work Experience Sr.Hybris Developer AmerisourceBergen Corporation - Chesterbrook, PA June 2018 to Present Role and Responsibilities    Ø Involved in data modeling, Carts, Orders, invoices, Receiving, Supporting Services and Tote Receiving modules.  Ø Involved in integration with SAP ECC using RFC calls.  Ø Involved in integration SAP ECC Master data using SAP PI(Data hub).  Ø Involved in integration Sales Force data using SAP PI restful api.  Ø Worked on Business Process services and Cron Jobs.  Ø Customized Solr search implementation of Products.  Ø Developed Restful services using SAP Hybris OCC api.  Ø Worked on hot folder implementations.  Ø Worked on search restrictions (Personalization).  Ø  Developed user roles and restrictions api’s.  Ø Involved in migrating SAP Hybris 6.3 to 1811  Ø Involved in writing custom promotions.  Involved in writing new ruleengine extension without using promotions Hybris Developer Wyndham Destinations - Parsippany, NJ November 2015 to May 2018 Project Description  RCI is the leading global provider of innovative products and services to the worldwide travel and leisure industry. RCI has been an innovator of the timeshare industry for many years, maintaining the highest standards of quality and excellence as a growth partner to its resort affiliates. The company invests significantly in service enhancements to bring more to its members in terms of value and holiday experiences. The company also gives its members many exclusive membership lifestyle benefits such as RCI Travel services, RCI Platinum Memberships giving a higher level of experience including Priority Access to specially selected and acquired accommodation and rewards on transactions to be used when booking a future RCI holiday or service.    • Integration with SAP for getting Order Details using RFC call  • Customizing the checkout and order process allows a registered customer to make a one-time purchase, schedule a replenishment order.  ·        Successfully implemented Data exchange between Hybris and SAP ECC through Data Hub.  ·        Worked on various phases of data flow in Data hub namely Loading, composition and publication.  • Worked on preparing initial Data and project Data.  ·        Writing Flexible Search Queries, Creating Impex scripts for import and export  Created/updated Hybris data model as per requirement Senior SOA Developer Dec 14– Oct 15 Farmers Insurance Group - California City, CA December 2014 to October 2015 Project Summary:   Billing CSS/CSS Redesign is one of the projects which are part of Farmers Enterprise Web Strategy Program. One of the goals of this strategy is to provide and improve the Customer Self Service options available to the Customers, Agents and CSR community. The Shared Services Infrastructure previously known as zSOA will host the services required to interact with Farmers backend systems like FSCD, FileNet, eACA, FFQ and CSS and expose them as service end-points to Salesforce in a secure manner.   All Service Endpoints for Salesforce is exposed via IBM Data power XI152, which is used as Security Gateway for handling the two way SSL connectivity between SFDC and Farmers network. The SSL termination for all inbound traffic into Farmers network happens at DMZ Data power layer.  Java Team Lead Corelogic Inc - Bengaluru, Karnataka February 2011 to November 2014 India.  Project Summary: K2Admin is a self-serve account management module allowing administrators to provision (grant access to) Corelogic products.    Administrators can manage user access via hierarchical structure of groups, subgroups, sub subgroups and users representing their organizational landscape and tailored to their business concerns.    It helps to control access to different kinds of reports, features and map layers in a product to different groups of users.  • Designed and developed using Adobe Flex, Spring Framework and Struts.  • Coding & Unit testing of the affected components as well as the new components.  • Write Junit4 test cases.  • Tracking of deliverables of the team members and resolve any issues using Version one project management tool.  • Integrated Sonar Java pmd rules to the application and resolved Sonar flaws in the application.  • Resolved Veracode flaws in the project.  • Performed defect analysis of the real time issues in the production environment. Senior Java Developer HSBC GLT - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2009 to February 2011 India.  Project Summary: A Suspicious Activity Reports (SARs) are one of the government's main weapons in the battle against money laundering and other financial crimes since these reports generate leads that law enforcement agencies use to initiate money laundering investigations. Many individuals launder money to conceal illegal activity, such as drug trafficking, health insurance fraud, tax evasion, and even terrorism. It fuels criminal conduct, allowing drug dealers, smugglers, terrorists, arms dealers, and tax evaders to maintain control over their proceeds and ultimately to provide a legitimate cover for their sources of income.    • Acting as a one point of contact between offshore & client Understanding the requirement & provide the estimations.  • Designed and developed using Spring Framework and Struts.  • Coding & Unit testing of the affected components as well as the new components.  • Tracking of deliverables of the team members and resolve any issues.  • Played a role of DPC for the development project.  • Conduct weekly team meetings and address project and team issues/concerns.  • Conduct weekly meeting with client to update the progress on the ongoing projects.  • Provide technical/product training to new joiners in the project.  • Performed defect analysis of the real time issues in the production environment. Senior Java Developer HSBC GLT - Hyderabad, Telangana December 2008 to September 2009 India.    Project Summary: The Alert Review System is a web-based application to review and work on alerts that are the result of the OFAC scanning. The system is used for first level reviewing and filtering the false positive alerts generated from the OFAC scanning. Compliance people review these alerts and decide what are the true alerts or false alerts. Java Developer HSBC GLT - Hyderabad, Telangana February 2008 to December 2008 India.    Project Summary: The US Wolf Real-Time scanning solution provides message scanning for applications. The sending application will collect data to be scanned, based on the business practice and OFAC Compliance requirements, and send messages one at a time to US Wolf. US Wolf will scan the message for the occurrence of any sanctioned entities (restricted persons, places, cities, countries, vessels and other entities that are sanctioned by the US Government). Java Developer HSBC GLT - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2007 to February 2008 India.    Project Summary: CRMS (Compliance Risk Mitigation System) project is to provide HNAH Compliance with a centralized repository of pertinent regulations and requirements. The information will be stored as summarized interpretations of each regulation that HNAH Compliance seems necessary  The Objective of this project is to integrate and automate all Compliance risk mitigation "systems" that are currently being used within the five HNAH entities. Education Master of Computer Applications in integration SV University - Chesterbrook, PA June 2018 Skills J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Struts, Git