Sr. Full Stack developer- IVR Developer Sr. Full Stack <span class="hl">developer</span>- IVR <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Full Stack developer- IVR Developer - Key Bank Kansas City, KS • 9+ years of experience in software development life cycle (SDLC) with core areas such as design, analysis, implementation coding, testing, and deployment of object oriented and web based enterprise applications using Java/J2EE.  • Strong understanding of OOPS and RDBMS concepts with good knowledge of E-Commerce, banking, telecom, financial, healthcare and insurance domains.  • Experience in developing applications using core Java, multi-threading, memory management, NIO, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Java beans, EJB, Hibernate, web-services (SOAP and RESTful), JMS, JDBC, JSON, Ajax.  • Expertise in HTML, XHTML, HTML5, ML5, AngularJS, CSS, AJAX, jQuery, JSTL specification, XML (SAX, DOM), XSL, XSLT, JAXP, JAXB, DTD, resource properties  • Experience in developing web applications with various open source frameworks: JSP, JSF, Spring Framework (MVC) 2.5, 3.0, Struts Framework, JavaScript, AngularJS, HTML, CSS. Extensive experience in Jakarta Struts MVC.  • Strong understanding and good knowledge on Docker  • Experience in software development life cycle (SDLC) - Requirements Specification, Design documents and writing Test cases using various software engineering process ranging from waterfall to agile methodology.  • Hands on experience with version control systems like CVS (Concurrent Version Systems), SVN (Apache Subversion), CLEARCASE and GIT for providing common platform for all the developers.  • Hands on experience working with Mule ESB in developing the SOA middleware based applications  • Experience with business rules engines such as drools  • Experience in developing web based applications with various open source frameworks: JSP, JSF, Spring Framework (MVC) 2.5, 3.0, Struts Framework, JavaScript, AngularJS, HTML, CSS Experience of working with RDBMS like Oracle 8i/ 9i/ 10g/ 11g, MySQL, SQL Server and developing Stored Procedures, Triggers, Views, Functions.  • Experience in deploying, configuring and administering Web & EE application servers such as WebSphere, WebLogic, JBoss, Glassfish and Apache Tomcat.  • Experience in Log4J for extensible logging, debugging and error tracing.  • Good understanding of UML components such as Use case diagrams, Sequence diagrams  • Expertise with build automation tools such as Jenkins  • Experience with working interfaces for SOA, Cloud, and other paradigms  • Experience in using build tools like ANT and Maven.  • Experience with distributed, enterprise middleware development and ESB technologies, both COTS and open source  • Experience with databases such as Cassandra and Redis  • Familiarity with Kafka or RabbitMQ  • Good experience in working with clients to determine their needs, gather, analyse and document requirements, communicate with clients throughout the development cycle, manage client's expectations, resolve issues and provide project status.  • Experience with commercial and open source ESB's JBoss Fuse, Mule, SAP, Active Matrix, Camel, Open ESB  • Product expertise on Amazon AWS, MS Azure and other emerging Cloud Technologies.  • Strong team player, ability to work independently and in a team as well, ability to adapt to a rapidly changing environment, commitment towards learning. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Full Stack developer- IVR Developer Key Bank May 2016 to Present Description:  Key bank is a leading, independent community bank that specializes in serving small and medium sized businesses in Ohio. This project features are ideal for businesses that need to view account information or pay bills. This application facilitates to view balances of checking/saving account, View/download transactions for checking, savings, loans, credit monitoring system.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in designing and developing the application with team members.  • Used various core java concepts such as Multi-Threading, Exception Handling, Collection API's to implement various features and enhancements.  • Working knowledge of Java/Groovy and JavaScript programming language.  • Involved in IVR development - VXML.  • Involved in unit testing using Junit.  • Performed Unit testing and prepared new test case documents.  • Used Tomcat for application deployment, Hystrix Dashboard.  • Implemented Web Services using SOAP, consumed Web Services for transferring data between applications. Used JAX-WS SOAP to retrieve credit history of the applicants.  • Designed and developed user interface screens using, JQuery and JSON.  • Implemented various useful design patterns including Singleton and Data Access objects.  • Presentation tier was developed using JSP, JSTL, Java Script, HTML and CSS.  • Involved in writing PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Strong Experience with java methodologies, technologies and frameworks (POJO, Spring, Maven)  • Designed and Develop server side components using Web Services, JSP, Servlets. Sr. Full Stack developer Bigcommerce - Austin, TX April 2015 to April 2016 Description:  Bigcommerce is the primary contact for application related production issues. The role purpose is to provide application support for the e-commerce websites and related applications with a mandate to proactively detect issues and quickly resolve production issues in a timely manner.  Responsibilities:  • Working with Managers, Team Leads, marketing teams, QA teams to clarify on requirements and to develop realistic development plans and contribute to successful delivery of the Project.  • Involved all life cycle phases of SDLC.  • Work closely with engineering to support the agile development process  • Facilitated all Scrum ceremonies including Sprint Planning, Daily Standups, Sprint retrospectives, Sprint Demo, Story Grooming, and Release Planning as defined in Cotivits scaled agile framework and updating the status of working JIRA's.  • Designed and developed user interface screens using, JQuery and JSON.  • Used various core java concepts such as Multi-Threading, Exception Handling, Collection API's to implement various features and enhancements.  • Used framework for the development of web application using AngularJs, Ajax DHTML and DOM scripting.  • Develop EJB for the implementation of business logic and deploy in the application server using Message Queue.  • Designed and Develop server side components using Web Services, JSP, Servlets.  • Implemented persistence layer using JPA and writing SQL queries based on JPA criteria API.  • Developed a multithreaded Thread-pool webserver implementing queuing, thread scheduling and thread synchronization techniques for deadlock prevention.  • Integrated Spring, Hibernate and JSF for developing the application.  • Involved in writing build scripts using ANT.  • Experience with xml/Json and developing soap and rest services using Apache CXF or a comparable framework.  • Developed unit test cases using JUnit.  • Experience building RESTful services using Micro-services architecture with tools such as Spring-boot.  • Analyzed the requirements and framed the business logic for the ETL process.  • Exposure to Web Services, SOA, XML.  Environment:  Java 1.7, JAVA EE 6, Eclipse IDE, Core Java, Spring 3.0, JSF 2.0, Ice faces 3.0, JIRA, Hibernate, JPA, SVN, WebLogic, Mule ESB, Oracle 11 database, TOAD, Restful web services API, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, Putty, Linux Sr Java/J2EE Developer Pharmaceutical Company - Jersey City, NJ June 2013 to March 2015 Description:  Actavis is one of the leading Pharmaceutical Company in generic and over-the-counter medicines. At Actavis I was involved in development of web application. During the research on a particular drug, a lot of data has to be sent to FDA. They needed a web application to send this data and also manage all the content of each drug. During this project, I implemented Web services using SOAP. After the development, I was also involved in support of the application.    Responsibilities:  • Analysis and development of application based on J2EE using Spring and Hibernate.  • Involved in sprint meetings with Architect and off-shore.  • Hibernate was used for object relational mapping with Oracle database.  • Used Spring IOC for injecting the beans and reduced the coupling between the classes.  • Involved in developing the user interface.  • Implemented data access tier using Spring DAO.  • Experienced in J2EE, Java Servlets, JMS, EJB, Design Patterns, Web services and building integration projects using any integration tool.  • Integrated Spring and Hibernate ORM framework for persistence.  • Experience integrating custom software with COTS products and interface.  • Working knowledge of Java/Groovy and JavaScript programming language.  • Experience building GUIs with GWT (Google Web Toolkit), GXT, Swing/AWT, or other technologies similar to GWT. Experience with AJAX technologies.  • Design and develop the project using Apache's Maven, Camel and JBoss Fuse ESB.  • Implemented Web Services using SOAP, consumed Web Services for transferring data between applications. Used JAX-WS SOAP to retrieve credit history of the applicants.  • Involved in unit testing using Junit.  • Connected applications together and enabled them to exchange data using Mule ESB.  • Developed Multithreading concepts to read the bulk files contents faster by using join, is Alive, Block Multi-Threading concepts.  • Debugging of Concurrency issues with the proprietary Workflow server software (batch processing) -- Threads, Threadpool, Scheduling.  • Involved in writing PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Experience in developing web applications using at least one popular web framework (JSF, Wicket, GWT, Spring MVC.  Environment:  Java 1.6, JDBC 3.0, Struts, PL/SQL, Spring IOC, Fuse Spring Transaction Management, SOAP, WebLogic, Web services, Spring DAO, Oracle 11g, Eclipse, JUnit 3, Tomcat. Sr Java/J2EE Developer United Services Automobile Association February 2012 to May 2013 Description:  The United Services Automobile Association (USAA) is a Texas-based Fortune 500 diversified financial services company. It offers banking, investing, and insurance to people and families that serve, or served, in the United States military. USAA was founded in 1922 by a group of U.S. Army officers. I have worked on development of Customer Order Processing and fulfillment System. This system tracks the customer Orders and Feedback after order have been fulfilled. It also tracks Defects and Customer Satisfaction.    Responsibilities:  • Mapped and managed Object/table relationships in Hibernate.  • Experience with rich UI frameworks like Angular JS, jQuery, DOJO, Ajax, HTML 5, Swing, Java FX or similar frameworks/APIs  • Presentation tier was developed using JSP, JSTL, Java Script, HTML and CSS.  • Performed Client side validations using Java script.  • Familiarity with Continuous Integration Systems such as Jenkins  • Developed and implemented Legacy system programs by using COBOL, DB2, CICS, JCL, Java and VSAM.  • Implemented various useful design patterns including Singleton and Data Access objects.  • Implemented business logic using Servlets  • Assist head waiter in every facet of customer satisfaction  • Implemented tag handler classes using Custom Tags.  • Developed Restful Web Services.  • Strong Experience with java methodologies, technologies and frameworks (POJO, Spring, Maven)  • Message flows for routing and transformation of the web services requests.  • Performed Unit testing and prepared new test case documents.    Environment:  Java 1.6, JSP, Servlets, Spring, Java Script, Hibernate, JBoss application Server, Oracle, Web Services, Restful Web Services, XML, and UNIX Sr Java/J2EE Developer Lake Side Bank - Chicago, IL February 2011 to January 2012 Description:  Lake Side bank is a leading, independent community bank that specializes in serving small and medium sized businesses in Chicago. This project features are ideal for businesses that need to view account information or pay bills. This application facilitates to view balances of checking/saving account, View/download transactions for checking, savings, loans, credit monitoring system.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases like design and development of Object Oriented Analysis and Design  • Used Rational Rose for the Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams to represent the detailed design phase.  • Developed user interface on Jakarta Struts Framework using JSP and HTML.  • Developed Struts Action Class which route submittals via Business Delegate to Business appropriate components and render retrieved information.  • Developed the front end using JSP, JSTL and custom tags.  • Configured and build Asynchronous communication with JMS services with MQ Series.  • Implemented the Design patterns like Business Delegate, Session Façade, Data Transfer Object, Value Object, Data Access Object and Service Locator in the project extensively, which facilitates clean distribution of roles and responsibilities across various layers of processing.  • Used JMS in Pay Bills module.  • Tested the application functionality with JUnit Test Cases.  • Used Ant as a build tool.  • Used WebSphere Application Server for deploying various components of application.    Environment:  Java, WAS, Servlets, JSP, HTML, Struts, Hibernate, XML, Web Services, JAXB, SOAP, WSDL, Oracle 10g, JMS, Mongo DB, Log4J, JUnit, Windows XP Java/J2EE Developer Bharat Matrimony - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh, IN September 2009 to October 2010 Description:  This is an enhancement and development of the customer care application of Matrimony. Its architecture is based on the internal MVC framework. Here a MVC Framework follows the Model View Controller (MVC) architecture. The client requests for the modifications in his policy which is fed through this application to the Customer Service Consultants. We carry out the needed modifications asked by the client.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in designing and developing the application with a team of 4 members  • Involved in the development of web module for monitoring and controlling application using Spring Frame work.  • Developed Data Access Objects (DAOs) to access data from the database.  • Experience with hosted call center software solutions, Jive  • Developed Hibernate for data persistence.  • Was involved in deployment using ANT for tool.  • Involved in UML, Package, Class and State Diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Developed JUnit Test cases and performed application testing for QC team.  • Used JavaScript for client side validations.  • Participated in weekly project meetings, Provided Estimates for the assigned Task.    Environment:  Java, J2EE, Spring 1.2, AJAX, Hibernate, EJB 3.0, WebSphere Application Server, Windows XP, Oracle 10g, Win CVS Java/J2ee Developer Karur Vysya Bank - Karur, Tamil Nadu June 2007 to August 2009 Description:  This is an Online banking application, which enables bank customers to access their accounts through web. This application delivers online services including account information, bill payment, and transfer of funds, new product offerings and customer correspondence with the bank. The system guarantees convenient and safe access to their account at any time from any chosen place in the world.  Responsibilities:  • Worked as Research Assistant and a Development Team Member.  • Coordinated with Business Analysts to gather the requirements and prepare data flow diagrams and technical documents.  • Identified Use Cases and generated Class, Sequence and State diagrams using UML.  • Involved in Designing, coding and maintaining of Entity Beans and Session Beans.  • Involved in the development of Web Interface using MVC Struts Framework.  • User Interface was developed using JSP and tags, CSS, HTML and Java Script.  • Used Session Filter for implementing timeout for ideal users.  • Used stored Procedure to interact with database.  • Development of Persistence was done using Hibernate Framework.    Environment:  Java, JSP, Eclipse, Servlet, XML, Struts, AJAX, JUnit, WebSphere Application Server, Ant, JavaScript, CSS, Log4J, JUnit, HTML, SQL. Education Bachelor's