Salesforce Developer Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span> Salesforce Developer - Arcelor Mittal Chicago, IL • 11+ years of IT experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) which involves  requirement gathering, requirement analysis, design, development, implementation & enhancement of projects in Salesforce applications and other technologies.  • Experience in customization Security Access, Workflows, Data Validation, Data Utilities, Analytics, Sales, Marketing, Customer Service and Support Administration.  • Extensive experience in Salesforce.com setup, Configuration, Customization, Administration, Data migration and Integration tools like Apex Data loader etc.  • Expertise in Force.com, Visual-force and Apex.  • Experienced in working with Lightning Design System (LDS) in Lightning Experience.  • Experience in realizing the business requirements to design on salesforce.com platform by designing the required entities like custom objects, creating the relationships/ junction objects like Master-Child, Lookups, and Entity relationship data model, Pages, Classes and Interfaces.  • Experience in working on Eclipse IDE with Force.com plug-in, command line interface.  • Proficient in performing detailed analysis of business and gathering technical requirements.  • Extensive experience in developing Apex Classes, Triggers, Visual force pages, writing Workflows, Integration, Force.com API.  • Extensive Experience in Designing of Custom Objects, Custom Fields, Pick List, Role Based Page Layouts, Workflow Alerts and Actions, Validation Rules, Approval Processes, Custom Tabs, Custom Reports, Report Folders, Report Extractions To Various Formats, Design Of Visual Force Pages, Snapshots, Dashboards, And Email Generation according To Application Requirements.  • Used Lightning Component Framework, Dashboards and Reports in Lightning Experience.  • Developed Apex classes using other platform based technologies like Visualforce, Force.com IDE.  • Worked with SOQL, SOSL, VisualForce, Apex, Force.com Web Services API, AURA.  • Experienced in use of Standard and Custom controllers of Visualforce in development of custom  Salesforce pages as required by business requirements.  • Proficient knowledge of Governor limits. Experienced in optimization of existing code in according to the governor limits.  • Used several third-party tools in Salesforce.com AppExchange.  • Expertise in Service Cloud console with exposure to CTI adapters and mobile application integrations.  • Developed and worked on different Salesforce.com environments such as Sandbox and Production environments.  • Experience in web technologies like HTML, XML, CSS, JSP, JavaScript, WSDL, J-query, Tool tip & Auto Complete widget, SOAP, REST, BULK and METADATA API.  • Excellent experience in using Oracle, SQL Server and SQL databases and Familiar with Stored- procedures Triggers and Functions using PL/SQL and AJAX.  • Worked under Agile SDLC using Scrum methodology.  • Synchronized ETL flows between various databases and report servers.  • Expert level skills in interacting with Business users & Product Owners to analyze and understand the Business Process requirements.  • Ability to quickly adjust priorities, extensive creativity, and the ability to take on projects with limited specification and an effective team player. Work Experience Salesforce Developer Arcelor Mittal - Chicago, IL April 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in various activities of the project, like information gathering, analyzing the information, documenting the functional and non-functional requirements.  • Worked with various salesforce.com objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns etc.  • Developed various custom objects, tabs, components and Visual Force pages.  • Customized page layouts for standard/custom objects and assigned record types.  • Created data validation rules and formulas as per business requirement.  • Created workflow rules to automate tasks, email alerts, field updates and time-dependent actions.  • Developed and configured various custom reports and report folders for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  • Maintained data cleanliness and accuracy by adding custom validation rules, custom formulas, Reports and Dashboards.  • Designed, and developed Apex classes, Controller classes, Extensions and Apex triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Designed various web pages in Visual Force for capturing various customer enquiries and implemented logic for migrating cases to different queues based on the type of customer enquiry.  • Integrated the web services by generating the necessary stubs from the WSDL files for extracting the data from the home grown applications by using the home grown web services.  • Used SOQL & SOSL with consideration to Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Responsible for all the activities related to configuring Data Loader, uploading data in CSV files intosalesforce.com, checking for the correctness of the data.  • Packaged and Deployed customizations from Sandbox to other environments using Force.com IDE.  • Help users with Chatter teams/groups and follow application as well.  • Provided ongoing salesforce.com maintenance and administration services including periodic data cleansing, custom objects, workflows.  Environment: SaleForce.com platform, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Apex(Classes, Controllers & Triggers), Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Data Loader, Sandbox, HTML, Java Script, Eclipse IDE Plug-in SalesForce Developer/Admin Mesirowfinancial - Chicago, IL July 2016 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  • Worked as enhancement team member and performed the roles of Salesforce.com Developer/Admin in the organization  • Worked closely with sales team and business analysts and performed detailed analysis of business and technical requirements and designed the solution by customizing various standard objects of SalesForce.com (SFDC).  • Implemented the requirements on Salesforce.com platform and Force.com IDE.  • Created Custom Objects and fields for transactional and contractual information.  • Worked on assigning Roles, Profiles and Security setup.  • Providing consultation to other application developers and administrators.  • Designed, Customized and deployed the Custom objects, Custom tabs, Entity-Relationship data model, validation rules, Workflow Rules, Auto-Response Rules, Page layouts, Components, Visual Force Pages to suit to the needs of the application.  • Created and customized dashboards and reports also scheduled and maintained them as per the requirement.  • Extensively uploaded data using APEX data loader for Accounts, Contacts and other custom objects.  • Designed various Visual Force Pages to capture various customer enquiries and Implemented logic for migrating cases to different queues based on the type of customer enquiry.  • Designed, and developed Apex Classes for various functional needs in the application.  • Used SOQL & SOSL with consideration to Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Involved in data mapping and migration of data from legacy systems to SalesForce.com Objects and fields.  • Implementation of Email to Case functionality which enables the end users to create a case by themselves by sending an email to the support service.  • Implemented web based case management automation - Web to Case (on Case Object) to track and solve customer's issues.  Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Apex Classes, Controllers, Java script, XML, SOQL, Force.com Eclipse IDE, Apex Explorer, Visual force and SOQL Salesforce Developer / Administrator GE-MUBADLA - Houston, TX September 2013 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed a Salesforce.com Approval process for the users  • Developed Salesforce.com workflow rules for updating some fields when the user reaches a particular step in the approval process.  • Implemented some validations for some steps in the approval process by using Validation Rules  • Administered Salesforce.com applications and migrated code/data from different environments.  • Developed Apex Triggers and Test Methods  • Maintained roles, profiles and user accounts  • Used eclipse for development environment  • Designed and developed the application.  • Involved in creation of users and profiles.  • Implemented the Role Hierarchy for this application.  • Created Custom fields, Custom objects, Users, Roles and Profiles as required by the application.  • Customized page layouts for Salesforce.com standard and custom objects.  • Configured users' roles, permissions and profiles as per business requirement.  • Involved in Client Interaction, Task Tracking and Delivery Management.  • Worked on Project management tool TFS.  • Defined technical architecture and detailed technical solution design document for the user requirements.  • Involved in defining data model for Salesforce.com application.  Environment: Eclipse IDE, Salesforce.com, Force.com Sandbox, Import Wizard, Apex, Sharing Rules, Workflows, Email Updates. Salesforce Developer McKesson - Phoenix, AZ October 2011 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Developed pilot functionalities of related lists into lightning components for classic salesforce.  • Designed, developed and deployed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers, Visualforce pages, components for various functional needs in the application.  • Integrated the Web Services for extracting the data from external systems to display in the pages of Salesforce.com based on REST API.  • Involved in two-way data integration between SQL Server and Salesforce using .Net web Service.  • Involved integration of their legacy system with Salesforce CRM through web services based on BULK API  • Implemented a functionality to accommodate UK as a part of an existing EMEA Process.  • Worked on Salesforce portal to stabilize the existing system by enhancing - restructuring the APEX code.  • Worked on several DocuSign documents used by various business teams.  • Worked on setting up Hoopla AppExchange application which helps derive better sales via gamifying the process.  • Helped the team to get Org wide test coverage above 90%.  • Interacting with business and attending meetings to get the requirements and providing the best solutions for the gathered requirements.  • Worked on Inside Sales and Demand Tools App-Exchange applications to make Salesforce.com instance effective.  • Implemented Marketo in detail to setup for users in such a way those campaigns help users to evaluate each marketing activity.  • Installed and configured Marketo AppExchange app to automate and measure demand generation campaigns that generate more high-quality leads.  • Coordinated in cross-functional teams.  • Managed with vendor partners and formulated optimal solutions for integration.  • Execution of Test Cases. Review of Test Cases/Test Documents/UE Documents and preparing Test Report.  • Configured Service Cloud for internal support agents for case support.  • Worked on Call Center Software Administration and Salesforce.com Integration Support (CTI).  Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Data Loader, ANT Migration Tool, Data Loader, SQL and Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Sublime text. Java Developer/Salesforce Developer Verizon Wireless IN February 2008 to September 2011 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the requirements gathering, analysis, design, development, and testing phases of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC).  • Implemented Java Persistence API (JPA) through Hibernate 3.0. Created connections to database using Hibernate session Factory, using Hibernate APIs to retrieve and stored data to the database with Hibernate transaction control.  • Worked with the team to design the front-end GUI using JSP, JScript and HTML.  • Spring, Servlets, JSP, and JSTL are used for building the application.  • Worked on JavaScript to implement front end side validations.  • Design and developed application with a comprehensive knowledge of Java and J2EE.  • Implemented MVC Architecture using Struts Framework.  • Design, Development of JSP pages, Servlets and re-usable Java Beans using Apache Spring  • Designed various Visual Force for customers to select a variety of services offered by the organization and integrate them with the pricing team.  • Designed, and developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes, extensions and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Maintaining test coverage for all the classes and triggers and supporting deployment activities.  • Designed, and deployed the Custom objects, Custom tabs, Entity-Relationship data model, validation rules, Workflow Rules, Auto-Response Rules, Page layouts, Components, Visual Force Pages to suit to the needs of the application.  • Used SOQL & SOSL with consideration to Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Used Data Loader for insert, update and bulk import or export of data from Salesforce.com  Environment: Web Sphere Server, Struts 2.0, JSTL, CSS, DB2, JSP, JDBC, EJB, RAD, J2EE, Java, UMLs, HTML, Joint, Log4j, JavaScript, J2EE Patterns, SQL, MVC, Saleforce.com platform, Force.com IDE - Eclipse Plug-in Education Bachelor's