Lead. Java Developer Lead. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Lead. Java Developer - Delta Airlines Atlanta, GA * Versatile software professional with 12+ years of experience in the design, development, testing, and implementation of critical client server / web applications using JEE/ JAVA  * Recent project roles: Sr. Software Engineer, Designer, Technical Lead and Architect.  * Knowledge of Core Technologies such as: Spring Boot, Spring Frameworks, Hibernate ORM, Web-services(SOAP , REST), JAX-WS, JSF, JSP, Servlet, Oracle, PL/SQL, Sybase, MySQL, Tomcat, WebSphere, UML, JMS, AJAX, jQuery, MQ Series, RabbitMQ, SVN,GIT, Clear Case, Maven, Jenkins/Hudson, Docker, Linux, Shell Script  * Hands on experience of AWS services, setting up EC2, S3, RDS, VPC, SQS, CloudFront, IAM.  * Demonstrate skills in building software architecture from scratch for multiple JEE based applications  * Major JEE Design patterns used: Singleton, Front Controller, Facade Session, Command patterns, Composite View, Data Access Object and Interceptor.  * Extensive experience in Stored Procedures, SQL queries with RDBMS Oracle, Sybase and tools SQL Developer and TOAD.  * Expert in creating/updating Technical documentation including HLD- High Level Design, LLD - Low Level Design, Deployment Plan, System Design and Application Interface Design  * Excellent analytical and problem solving skills, Extensive experience in Object Oriented Analysis and Design using various UML diagrams; Use case Diagram, Class Diagram, Activity Diagram, Sequence Diagram and Object Diagram  * Excellent experience in the design, development, and implementation of Model-View-Controller (MVC) inculcating with different JEE frameworks and various Design Patterns.  * Excellent experience in the design, development, and implementation of Restful APIs using various java framework.  * Experience of development in Service Oriented Architecture to develop services using Web Services, SOAP, WSDL, JAX-WS and JAXB.  * Experience in Process Oriented development. Followed RAD (Rapid Application Development), AUP (Agile Methodology) and Scrum Software Development processes.  * Excellent communication and interpersonal skills, quick learner, self-motivated, ability to work as Technical Lead as well as individually in a team environment with great team spirit  * Experienced in leading out sourcing team and in house Team members.  * Experienced in Unix/Linux shell scripting and database SQL scripts.  * Experience on working with build tools Ant, Maven, Hudson and cruise control builds. Work Experience Lead. Java Developer Delta Airlines - Atlanta, GA November 2014 to Present Design and develop Delta Vacations, Sales and Customer loyalty products. The functionality developed on services oriented architecture. The modular designed divided on web services and RESTFul APIs, exposed to the end customer/clients.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases of project lifecycle including requirement analysis, designing the application, implementing the design, testing and maintenance support.  • Design and develop Spring Boot based Restful APIs with Microservices that communicate with backend database and third party services.  • Implement API proxies with APIGee gateway.  • Develop and design module for subscriber and publisher functionalities for ActiveMQ and TIBCO EMS with JMS messages implementations.  • Developed Server side pages and their respective core services using Spring MVC and core Spring Frameworks.  • Design frontend implementation of loyalty portal to globalization context, static context. Portal's static context is being handled by Adobe Experience Manager and App server responsible for getting content from AEM.  • Develop data access layers for Oracle databases using Spring ORM and Hibernate  • Develop unit test cases using Junit, Mockito.  • Established continuous integrations practice and standards using Jenkins. Setup Jenkins pipeline and job for continuous automated builds.  • Implement continuous delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins and Git  • Followed Agile Scrum/Kanban methodologies for project lifecycles  • Lead offshore team in design and development stages.  • Prepared technical documents at different stages of project lifecycle.    Environment: Java 7/8, Spring Boot, Spring Frameworks, Hibernate, Oracle, Linux, RAD, JUnit (4.5), Log4J, SLFJ, Clear Case, Ant, JQuery, CSS, Struts 1.2/2.0, JBoss 7, IntelliJ. JQuery, JSP, Servlets, CVS, JAX-WS, EJB 3.0, Docker, Jenkins, Maven, Git, APIGee, Open shift Java Lead Developer AT&T - Atlanta, GA December 2013 to November 2014 Design and develop social collaboration tool used for AT&T IT infrastructure. It provide social interaction feature like creating an account and group, posting an activity and messages. Commenting the activity or messages. Notifying user through email for activity done on account.  Responsibilities:  • Understanding client requirements for invoking API  • Developed Restful API, Designed client interface, Client side call of API using Ajax  • Used Spring Boot framework for developing component as microservice.  • Designed and developed middle tier services using Spring  • Interact Cassandra database with JDBC for storing database  • Search implementation done through Elastic Search API.  • Used development tool Maven, Eclipse, Jenkins for developing and building solution  • Handling and leading offshore team for day to day activities.    Environment: Java 7, Jersey REST API, Spring, Hibernate, Cassandra 2.0, ElasticSearch, RabbitMQ, Linux, Eclipse 4.0, JUnit (4.5), Log4J, SLFJ, GIT, Ant, JQuery, CSS, Maven, Jenkins, JQuery, JQuery-AJAX Sr. Java Developer Turner Broadcasting - Atlanta, GA September 2012 to December 2013 Design and develop of mobile web portal for leading media house of US. The portals majorly addressing the contents based on News, finance and Entertainments. The contents provided on the form of feeds which is being used by web portals  Responsibilities:  • Developed Application using JSP, Servlets, JBoss, JavaScript and HTML.  • Developed and executed sql scripts needed for loading the Data and maintaining the website.  • Created the documentation of the dive tool for validation for the XML.  • Load and run the user script to access the website.  • Used the Oracle Data base for Test Server and maintain the data base as per the Pre prod.  • Resolved the Jira ticket based on the details.  • Used the bcp commands for loading the large data on UAT and prod.  • Write a Store procs for the truncating the tables and delete the relationship between the tables to reload them.    Environment: Java 6, JSP, Oracle 11g, UNIX, Eclipse3.5, JBoss, JUnit , Log4J 1.2, Subversion SVN, Ant, HTML 5, JQuery , JQuery-AJAX, CSS, Mongo DB Sr. Java Developer Proxy Inc June 2010 to September 2012 The project is about implementing of a BI software product which provides to collect and present reports, charts and statistics about the traffic data collected by Cisco SCE, ASR and ISR devices. It includes the modes for authenticating user against the RADIUS or TACACS+ based user authentications. The tool accessible on web and smartphones. Flex based client where as smart phone was HTML5 based  Responsibilities:  • Developed application using Flex, Java and Restful Web Services.  • Lead the GUI team off shore to complete the tasks.  • Providing on call support for System Test, E2E and UAT.  • Created Application design (AD) documents from HLD's.  • Assigned AD to Dev as well as code for AD.  • Created Test Plans. Created the iTest and QTP plug-in and Test build for DVT and PQ Testing team  • Used and modified the code for the Jfreechart which used for the Load Testing to display cutoff values.  • Write JUnit test (4.5) cases to test the developed code.  • Used Tomcat 6 server for Prod and UAT, PQ.  • Develop the web services for the call by the rest web services.  • Fix the assigned defects in the Java, soap web services and backend services.  • Load and run the user script to access the web tools.  • Set up the MySQL Data base for Test Server.  • Resolved the Jira ticket based on the details.  • Developed the shell script for auto build purpose.    Environment: Java 6 , Adobe Flex 3/4, Restful Web Services, Spring 3.0, Hibernate3.0, XML, SQL, MySQL, Linux, Eclipse3.4, JBoss 4.5, Junit, Log4J, Oracle, Sybase, Ant, Flash Builder 4.0/4.6, Jfreechart 1.0.2 , HTML 5, Jquery, CSS Senior Java Developer O2 UK July 2009 to June 2010 A CRM and CMS based application used by a major telecom company of UK.  Responsibilities:  • Developed application using Java, JSP, Servlets, and J2EE (Pure MVC framework).  • Updated the iWireframe for the Mock screen.  • Providing on call support for System Test, E2E and UAT.  • Interact with SE's for requirements clarification  • Created Application design (AD) documents from HLD's.  • Assigned AD to Dev as well as code for AD.  • Write JUnit test (3.8) cases to test the developed code.  • Fix the assigned defects in the Java, soap web services.  • Write test case for the Flex Monkey for Testing Flex 4.0 GUI.  • Used the HTML 5.0and java script for the developed the internal wiki with the images load for the prototype.  • Used the UNIX for the UAT environment. Load and run the user script to access the website.  Environment: Java (6.0), J2EE, Hibernate, Spring, Struts, Web Services, WSDL, XML, XSL, XSLT, PL-SQL, Linux, Eclipse3.4, Web Logic 10.3, JUnit, Log4J 1.2, Oracle, Subversion, Maven. Software Engineer Adobe Systems April 2009 to July 2009 An online help system for Adobe point products. The application is developed using Flex with backend web services API  Responsibilities:  • Developing Source code for release.  • Support on QA for production release.  • Used Perforce for version control of the application.  • Set up the MySQL Data base for Test Server.  • Adobe Flex used for front end for different RIA for internal project.  • The application uses jQuery/JSON for a dynamic data retrieval and posting.  • Create the Table for meet different requirements.  • Resolve the Production release issue.  Environment: Java 6, Java Script, Linux, Eclipse 3.3, Spring MVC, MySQL, AdobeFlex Java Developer IBM June 2006 to April 2009 ePricer is a Pricing Application which is used by the sales professionals, Managers and the like for bidding, documenting and quoting the prices for different software and hardware products and services. It is developed using the latest J2EE technologies. The ePricer framework provides four tier structures (Presentation Tier, Controller Tier, Business Tier, and Data Tier) and a set of common and miscellaneous features used by all components. Broadly ePricer application has.  Responsibilities:  • Developing Source code and fixing bugs on UAT release.  • Support on UAT and Production release.  • Involved in installation and setup the application components.  • Web sphere in Development environment.  • Used CVS for version control of the application.  • Used DB2 server as database.  • Modify Front end JSP using struts 1.2 as per requirements  • Handle Exception using the Exception class.    Environment: Java 5, Spring Frameworks 2.0, Hibernate, IBM MQSeries, Java Script, WebSphere 6.0, RAD, JDBC 2.0, JSP 1.2, Servlets, Struts 1.2, XST/XSLT, Maven, Junit, JTest, WSAD6.0. DB2 V8, JAX-WS Education Master in Computer Application Jawaharlal Nehru University - Delhi, Delhi 2006 Bachelor in Science in Computer Application Patna University 2003 Skills JAVA (10+ years), JUNIT (10+ years), JSP (8 years), SERVLETS (8 years), jQuery (8 years), J2Ee, Rest, Spring, Hibernate, Java J2Ee Links http://linkedin.com/in/chandrabhushanverma Additional Information Technical Skills    Programming Language JAVA 1.6/1.7/1.8  Framework and Technologies  J2EE/JEE, JSP/Servlets, Hibernate 3.0+, JDBC, Spring Boot, Spring MVC , Spring frameworks, Spring Security, Spring Data, Spring Batch, Apache Camel, Apache Active MQ, Apache Kafka, JMS, JPA, JTA, JSON, Slf4j,LogBack, Mockito, HTML 5, JQuery, RESTful API/Microservices ( Spring Boot, RESTEasy,Jersey, JAX-RS), SOAP Web Service( JAX-WS,WSDL), Junit/TestNG, XML1.0/1.1, OpenShift , AWS-EC2 VPC RDS CloudFront S3    Application Server BEA Web logic 6.x/7.x., JBOSS EAP 6.0 , IBM Web Sphere 6.x+,  Web Server Apache Web Server, Tomcat 6/7,NGinx  Databases Oracle 10g+ Enterprise Edition, DB2, Sybase, PostgreSQL, Cassandra 2.0, Mongo DB, SQL  Tools  Rational Application Developer, RedHat developer studio , Eclipse, Ant, Maven, Jenkins (CI/CD), VisualVM, ,SonarLint, Sonarcube, PMD, FindBugs, Checkstyle JIRA, VersionOne, Swagger, SOAP UI    Operating Systems RedHat Enterprise Linux, Solaris , Windows  Cloud Platforms RedHat Openshift Enterprise , APIGee  Version Controls CVS, Perforce, SVN, GIT, ClearCase