Sr. java/j2ee Developer Sr.<span class="hl">java</span>/j2ee <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. java/j2ee Developer - Cambia Health Solutions Houston, TX • Having 11+Years of Experience in Enterprise Application System designing, developing, integration, supporting & delivering.  • Good exposure in the various business domains e- commence, Marketing, Finance and TV-Networks.  • Complete understanding of Software Development Life Cycle - requirements gathering,  Analysis, design, development, testing, and documentation phases.  • Interacted with various product stakeholders to help define and review business requirements.  Active participation in the architecture review & scrum meetings, high and low-level design  • Experience in e- commence, Marketing, Financial and TV-Networks domains,  • Experience in Java/J2EE-Servlets, JSP, EJB 2.0, XML and Struts MVC frame works  • Experience in Spring modules - Core, MVC, Boot, and Integration.  • Experience in using ORM technologies like Hibernate 3.  • Experience with SOAP (JAX-WS), Rest (JAX-RS) web services, Micro services.  • Excellent knowledge in Object Oriented Programming, design patterns (DAO, Factory, Singleton and Business Delegate, Session facade etc ).  • Expertise in developing web based GUIs using Servlets, JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript frameworks ( Java script, and Angular JS).  • Experience with AWS Cloud (S3, SQS, SNS, Cloud Watch, CLI etc.)  • Experience with GIT and version control system.  • Experience in UML design using StarUML.  • Expertise with Linux environment (Ubuntu 12.04, Putty, SSH).  • Experience using the Apache Camel.  • Experience in using Sonar Qube code coverage tools. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. java/j2ee Developer Cambia Health Solutions - Portland, OR December 2016 to Present The application allows insurance agents to register to new agency and save their details to Database. Existing agent can also update their information. Different search filters on UI application allows user to track the information of other insurance agent and insurance agencies. Application also allows user to save their information to Facets.    Responsibilities:  • Involve in all stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Used Agile Methodology for the development of the project.  • Designed and implemented business logic using Spring and Struts MVC frameworks.  • Designed and developed Struts action classes, DAO and Views using Struts custom tags.  • Used Spring to develop light weight business component. Used Spring IOC for dependency injection and Spring AOP for cross cutting concerns like logging.  • Used REST API to allow user to edit and update the information.  • Sent JSON format data packets back and forth from front-end to middle-tier.  • Developed a user-friendly interface using HTML, jQuery and JavaScript.  • Performed input validation with jQuery and JavaScript.  • Also involved in making changes to existing RESTful web service.  • Replaced few existing SOAP web service calls with REST to fetch the data from service.  • Updated some SQL queries and hibernate mapping files as well.  • Extensively use core Java concepts like Collections, Exception Handling and Generics during development of business logic.  • Consumed Facets web service to store information into Sybase database.  • Involved in updating store procedure logic.  • Used TOAD for database developments.  • Participate in gathering business requirements and converting them into detailed design documents.  • Deployed the application on Tomcat Application server.  • Wrote Test cases and performed Unit Testing on various modules using JUnit/Eclipse.  • Used Apache Maven and developed application using JDK 7.0.  • Developed application using JDK 7.0 and Deployed WAR files into Tomcat Application Server.  • Used Log4Jto print the logging, debugging, and error info on server console.  • Extensively used GIT for version control and source code management.  • Involved in fixing defects reported by QA and UAT and also supported application in production.  • Deployment in dev and test environment, also supported deployment in production.  • Day to day communication with offshore developers, through emails, phone and conference calls to resolve issue and technical discussions as well as understanding of business requirements.    Environment: J2EE, Java, JDK 7.0, Spring, Struts, REST, PL/SQL, LDAP, Spring JDBC, HTML, CSS, Java Script, JSP, XML,XSLT, JUnit, Apache CXF, Maven, Tomcat 8, GIT, Junit, Jenkins, Oracle, TOAD, Sybase. Sr. Java/j2ee developer Digital Commerce Platform September 2015 to November 2016 T-Mobile e-commerce site and developed based on Elastic path commerce engine it has features like Product Catalog, Shopping cart, pricing, Payment Group Plans and service, Inventory management and order submission process.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Develop the Availability & Availability Status APIS for different channels (i.e. TMNG and MYTMO).  • Develop the inventory calculations for different channels (i.e. TMNG and MYTMO).  • Stored the Product Catalog and Inventory feeds in Elastic search.  • Developed the Delta files for Inventory ALL and Upgrade feeds.  • Develop the camel routes for Catalog and inventory feeds.  • Developed the ES quires to retrieve the Data from ES.  • Post the Data to ES using Rest APIS.  • Developed the Jest client read the Data from Elastic search.  • Developed the back order and preorder calculations.  • Developed the Price Options and Finance Options Rest APIS.  • Use the GIT version tool to check-in the code approves the code merge requests.  • Develop the Unit Test cases using the Junit and Mockito.  • Supporting the application and resolving the bugs.  • Participating Agile /Scrum meetings and providing estimations for Stories.  • Preparing the technical design documents.  • Experience with Jira tool and Confluence Documentation.    Environment: Java 8, Spring Boot, Micro Services, Elastic Search, Elastic Path (e-Commerce Plat form), StaxAPI, AWS cloud. Docker Container Jenkins, Camel Routing, GIT, Splunk, Jira, Spring MVC, Agile and scrum process. Sr. java/J2ee Developer Sony Pictures - Los Angeles, CA June 2014 to August 2015 Vision has an interface with SPE's Global Product Master System (GPMS) application to receive the Product and Alpha related metadata for all the titles released by SPE. The operational data source stores and manages the Program data, which is exposed to Program and Traffic external systems like Vision, Wide Orbit and Rights line. Application also has the feature to assign the additional metadata to the Product and publish the metadata to external system like Be banjo.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Developed the multiple Rest calls for Synopsis, Genre, Title and Metadata to Be banjo Schedule systems.  • Implemented the camel routing for LA tam Integration to publish the Asserts, Title for metadata.  • Developed the Daily job for publishing the Daily Updates Data.  • Developed the NRT job for history data.  • Developed the business logic for Season, Series, Episode level data publishing to Be banjo schedule Systems.  • Prepared the JAXB request Objects (Assets, Title, Metadata, Ratings) for Rest API calls.  • Configured the JBoss Fuse server (ESB) to support Camel Routing  • Developed the Apache Camel Routing components.  • Used the spring frame work for business logic.  • Developed the SQL join quires to retrieve the Data from Vision system (i.e ETL Process)  • Implemented ORM with Hibernate for persistence player.  • Develop the common extract job to retrieve the data from Vision to ODIN.  • implemented the Apache POI to read write data to Xl sheets    Environment: Java7, Micro services, Spring MVC, Hibernate, ESB, Apache Camel, boss Fuse Server Restful web services, Active MQ, AWS, GIT, Jenkins, Oracle 10g Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Nordstrom - Seattle, WA February 2013 to May 2014 Routing Service provider (RSP) provides store locations for fulfilling orders. It supports primarily three services namely Availability, Capacity, sell through, using these services and set of business rules RSP determines the Best store for fulfillment.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Developed the Routing, Info services based on Spring Rest full services.  • Developed the business rules for fulfillment of stores.  • Developed single line and multi-line rules to full fill the stores.  • Developed Spring MVC framework to develop middleware of the application.  • Developed the custom validations for request objects.  • Support both XML and JSON Request and Response objects for Spring Rest web services  • Used the Redis cache to storage Store capacity info.  • Created the Jerkin build jobs for DIT, SIT and perf environments.  • Developed the Junit test cases.  • Worked with the Jira stories in agile Development process.  • Experience using the confluence for Technical Documentation.  • Participated in offshore -onsite co-ordination and Stories estimation    Environment: Java7, Spring MVC, Junit, Oracle 10 restful, Rest Client, Mango DB, Apache Tomcat, Drools, Radis cache AWS, Docker Container, GIT, Jenkins. Sonar. Linux. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer AT&T UVERSE - Bothell, WA May 2012 to January 2013 Uverse project convert into the WBFC Acritude design by using the Rest web services. Primarily contains two flows provide and modify flow. Provide flow used for new customer's login and purchase the Uverse core products (IPTV, HSIA, and VOIP). Modify flow used change the existing core services and features. Shop page contains personalized up sell and cross sell offers for core products.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in design discussions and prepared the technical design using the Star UML.  • Developed the java based Navigation Frame work for Provide flow  • Involved and enhanced the understand the existing Authentication services calls.  • Developed the shop offers ( i.e up sell and cross sell logic)  • Developed the application level caching frame work.  • Developed the Application Caching Framework for storing cross sell and up sell shop offers.  • Extended the Servlet Filters and intercept each request verify the authentication and authorized process.  • Extended the Servlet Filters and read the request prams and diverted user to the appropriate page (i.e. Auto Pay,)  • Developed Asynchronous JMS based Email notifications and also configured JMS Topics in Web logic server.  • Log4J was used for logging the application errors, warnings and debug statements.  • Used the Angular. jess for front end validations.  • Participated in Peer Code Review  • Used JUnit for unit testing the application.  • Involved in defect analysis and fixing also involved in offshore and onsite co -ordination.    Environment: Java6, ATG, Reset Services 2Adobe CQ, Rest Service, Angular. jess Junit, WebLogic 10.3.6, Oracle 10g, Toad, Adobe CQ. Sr. Java/J2ee developer Verizon - Silver Spring, MD January 2011 to April 2012 Verizon Home Monitoring and Control Service Enables Customers to Remotely Check on Their Homes, Control Locks, Lights, Thermostats, Appliances and Energy Use to The Existing Verizon (FiOS or DSL) customers. Verizon's Home Monitoring and Control system uses Z-Wave wireless mesh technology and will enable customers to turn down air conditioning or lock doors remotely, see cameras, and set and control lights, smart thermostats and appliances. Users can customize their set-ups by adding other cameras and modules, as well as digital wireless door locks and window and door sensors.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Designed Spring MVC components and also Data modeling with POJO's using Hibernate  • Worked closely with Architecture team and participated in design discussions  • Developed the product catalog and DB Modeling.  • Involved the developing product template pages using the jsps.  • Created the shopping cart page add to cart functionalities.  • Developed SOAP web service calls for profile, shipping and payment information.  • Used JUnit for unit testing the application.  • Developed the Spring and struts integration classes  • Implemented Exception mechanism and used API specific error message mechanism.  • Involved in production issues tracking and fixing.    Environment: J2EE 1.5, Web Logic 10.3, Oracle 10g, JSP, JMS, Spring MVC, Hibernate, JavaScript, Maven 3.0, Script AJAX, jQuery HTML, CSS and Eclipse, SVN, Adobe CQ. Unix. Sr. Java Developer AT&T Richardson TX - Richardson, TX October 2009 to December 2010 Online Account Management, often referred to as "OLAM", gives Cingular customers self-service access to their account via www.att.com. To customers, OLAM is known as the "My Account" portion of the Cingular website. OLAM provides many benefits to Cingular customers. The application gives them online access to their account with an easy way to view and print bills, check current usage, and make payments. In addition, the customer may change rate plans, upgrade phones, add features, or add lines without having to contact customer care or visit a Cingular retail store.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in Business calls and convert the business requirements into the appropriate technical Design.  • Prepared Technical Design using Star UML.  • Developed the Dashboard and Shopping cart pages using Rest services.  • Developed the Header and footer sections based on profiles.  • Involved in SOAP based CSI calls to read various profiles  • Developed the promotions basted on Business Rules  • Developed the profiles for Wireless, Wireline, U-verse, Slid account's  • Developed Footer links each profile.  • Involved in production issues and provided the quick fixes by find right root cause.  • Prepared the task plan creation for the application deployment and supported for production deployment.  • Prepared estimate for all the phase of Project deliverable.  • Involved in defects fixing and Root cause analysis.  • Involved in front end java script validations    Environment: J2EE 1.5, Web Logic 10.3, Oracle 10g, JSP, JMS, ATG, DSP, JavaScript, Maven 3.0, Script AJAX, JQuery HTML, CSS and Eclipse, SVN, Adobe CQ. Unix. Software Engineer HCL Technologies - Bengaluru, Karnataka July 2008 to September 2009 Project: QNB A customer relationship management system where Spring and Hibernate are integrated to build end to end application.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Developed the application using Spring Framework 3.0.2.  • Implemented MVC Architecture and used Spring Framework in developing the web interface.  • Developed the application in Model View Controller (MVC) design patterns using JSP, Java Servlets, and EJB.  • Deployed the application using WebLogic Application Server 7.0.  • Developed web-based user interfaces using Servlets, JSP, HTML, and XML  • Encapsulated business logic with JSP and EJB  • Used Oracle 8i as the backend  • Used Java Script for Client side validation  • Done IUT and SIT for the modules developed.  • Created and modified the database tables.  • Collected Business requirements by interacting with the business analysts.  • Developed business classes which incorporated the business logic.  • Wrote the SQL queries to access the database.  • Optimizing the web pages for the screen of a mobile device using CSS, JavaScript.  • Configured the log4j to persist the data (error tracking and info) into log files and implemented the same in application.  • Validated the web pages using the Validation Utils and displayed the error messages.    Environment: JAVA, J2EE, HTML, JDBC, JSP, Web Logic Server, Eclipse 3.5.1, Spring Framework 3.0.2, Oracle, JavaScript, CSS, Eclipse 3.5, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, CSS, EJB, Web logic Server, Log4J, Shell Scripting, XML, Software Engineer Singularity Software India Private Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana March 2006 to June 2008 Marketing Automation is a system that facilitates email marketing, sales lead generation and sales lead management and other regular marketing activities. Used to assist the company in implementing inbound marketing Activities    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Technical responsibilities included high level architecture and rapid development  • Design architecture following J2EE MVC framework  • Developed interfaces using HTML, JSP pages and Struts -Presentation View  • Developed and implemented Servlets running under JBoss  • Used J2EE design patterns and Data Access Object (DAO) for the business tier and integration Tier layer of the project  • Used Java Message Service (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information, such as loan status report, between the clients and the bank  • Designed and developed Message driven beans that consumed the messages from the Java message queue  • Implemented CMP entity beans for persistence of business logic implementation  • Development of database interaction code to JDBC API making extensive use of SQL Query Statements and advanced prepared statement  • Inspection/Review of quality deliverables such as Design Documents.  • Wrote SQL Scripts, Stored procedures and SQL Loader to load reference data.    Environment: J2EE ( Java Servlets, JSP, Struts), MVC Framework, Apache Tomcat, JBoss, Oracle8i, JMS, SQL, HTML, JDBC, EJB. Education B. Tech in EEE JNTU University 2004 Skills Hibernate, J2Ee, Spring, Java J2Ee, Java