Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer, CSM, Microservice, Spring Boot Reno, NV • Certified Scrum Master 2019 from Scrum Alliance.  • 14+ years of IT experience in Java/J2EE technologies, Spring Core, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Restful Web Services, SOAP Web Services, Microservices, Hibernate, IBatis, Struts, PL/SQL and Servers like JBoss, BEA Weblogic, Apache Tomcat and Database Servers like Oracle, Sybase and MS SQL Server.  • 8 years' experience working on Agile Methodology and part of multiple Matured Scrum team.  • Good knowledge of working on Object Relation Mapping frameworks using Hibernate, IBatis, and Toplink.  • Extensive experience in client-side technologies such as JQuery, JQWidget, HTML, CSS, DHTML, JavaScript, AJAX.  • Experience in Database Designing, creation and management of Schemas, writing Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, DDL, SQL queries using SQL and PL/SQL programming.  • Experience working on multiple Oracle versions, Sybase and MS SQL Server.  • Experience in LINUX Shell Scripting.  • Experience working on Memory Management and Performance Analyzing and Tuning tool like JProfiler, JConsole.  • Extensive experience in working on web application as well as desktop applications.  • Experience in XML related technologies including XML, XSD, XSLT.  • Experience in developing test cases using JUnit.  • Experience in Integration and Configuration of Guidewire 8.0 Billing Center.  • Experienced in Insurance, Hospitality, Finance, Security, Content Management, Publishing Domains.  • Extensive experience of Java Collections API, Multithreading, Concurrency, and Object Oriented Programming.  • Good understanding of Design Patterns like Factory, Singleton, Template, Proxy, Builder, Façade, MVC, DAO, IOC.  • Good experience writing SOAP Web Services and Client using JAX-WS, and Restful Web Services and Client using JAX-RS.  • Experience working on Application servers like JBoss, and Weblogic and Web Server like Apache Tomcat.  • Extensive experience working on multiple versions of IDE like Eclipse and IntelliJ.  • Extensive experience of configuring batch Jobs using tool like SOS Job Scheduler.  • Good experience using build tools like ANT, Maven, Gradle.  • Experience using version control tools like SVN, TFS, VSS, and CVS.  • Extensive experience working on Reporting and Tracking tool like JIRA, BugZilla, Parature, VersionOne.  Skills    Skills Exp. in Years Skills Exp. in Years  Core Java 7 13 Tools  Spring Core 4 SOS Job Scheduler 2  Spring MVC 2 Visio 1  Spring Boot 1 Eclipse 8  Hibernate 3 Idea Intelij 4  iBatis 3 Toad 4  SOAP Web Service 2 SQerrieL SQL 2  Restful Web Service 3 SQL Developer 5  Guidewire Billing Center 2 BugZilla 2  JSP, Servlets 8 JIRA 5  JQuery, JQWidget 2 Sonar 2  HTML, JavaScript, CSS 8 SVN 7  GWT/GXT 2 TFS 5  Toplink 1 SoapUI 4  AJAX 2 Postman 1  XML, XSLT, XSD 4 PilotFish's DataMapper 1  PL/SQL 10 Connect RightMailer 2  Struts 1.2 2  Server  Databases JBoss 5  Sybase 2 Tomcat 6  SQL Server 2 Weblogic 1  Oracle 9  Mongo 1 Domain  Taradata 1 Insurance (P&C) 4  Hospitality 2  Publishing 2  Finance (Trading) 4 Work Experience Java Developer Aflac February 2017 to October 2018 Methodology: Agile (Scrum)    Description:  Enterprise Integration Bus is a communication system between mutually interacting software applications in a service-oriented architecture (SOA). EIB implements a special variant of the more general client-server model, where, any application using EIB can behave as server or client in turns. EIB support both Synchronous and Asynchronous Message Queue protocol communication between applications.    Technology: Java, Spring Core, Spring Boot, Restful Web Services, AMQP, RabbitMQ, Mongo DB, XSL, XML, XSLT, VersionOne, TFS, Eclipse, SoapUI, Postman, PilotFish's DataMapper, Tomcat, Gradle, Jenkin, Docker.    Responsibilities:  • Working in microservice base architecture.  • Implemented Enterprise Integration Design Patterns like RoutingSlip, ScatterGatter, Splitter etc.  • Used Messaging Integration style in EIB to support communication between multiple applications.  • Design and implemented multiple AMQP microservice to provide functionality like XML splitter, File transfer, XML to JSON conversion, JSON to XML conversion.  • Written and enhanced core library that is used by all microservices.  • Involved in writing and maintaining Rest controller to provide Synchronous and Asynchronous message transfer.  • Writing restful microservice using spring Boot for retrieving, inserting, and deleting data in MongoDB.  • Writing XSLT transformation using PilotFish DataMapper.  • Involved in designing RAMLs for Restful web services.  • Used Gradle to resolve dependencies.  • Writing client for Restful web services.  • Testing Restful web services using Postman and SOAP web service using SoapUI.    Project: Guidewire Billing Center Integration and Configuration Java Developer /Technical Lead Capital Insurance Group May 2015 to December 2016 Methodology: Agile (Scrum)    Description:  Configure Guidewire Billing Center and integrate with legacy system. Integration with Policy Center and Contact Manager. CIG brought Billing Center to operate all billing transactions. Billing transaction include full Billing Cycle from creating invoice, payment schedule, Payments, Charges, Disbursement, generating billing documents, handling delinquency, generating Notices for all billing types that is Direct Bill, List Bill and Agency Bill.  CIG internal team/CSBP members extensively use this system for their daily activities.  This system also generates lot of report to CIG accounting team by utilizing billing center.    Technology: GOSU, Java 1.7, Oracle 12c, Linux, SOAP Web Services, JIRA, TFS, SOS Job Scheduler, SoapUI, SQL Developer, JBoss, InteliJ, Eclipse, Visio, Pitney Bowes's Connect RightMailer    Responsibilities:  • Working on Integration and Configuration components/user stories using Guidewire billing center with agile methodologies.  • Created custom batch jobs to Sort and print of Bills and Notices.  • Established integration between staging and Billing Center database by using DAO framework  • Involved in creating GXModel for documents mapping.  • Involved in customizing OOTB delinquency and agency bill workflow per CIG requirements.  • Created external SOAP web service API and communicated through Guidewire internal message Queues.  • Extensively involved in integrating with Guidewire Contact manager for contact search, insert and update contacts  • Created export table between Legacy billing system and Billing Center.  • Involved in customizing complete Billing Cycle like payment plan changes, invoicing, and charge creation as per CIG requirement.  • Single handed implementation and maintenance of 3rd party Job Scheduler tool to configure automated billing center job schedules by utilizing MaintenanceToolAPI, WorkqueueAPI, MessageQueueAPI.  • Implementation and maintaining of Connect RightMailer a Pitney Bowes's Address Sorting and Standardization tool to generate account bills mailing discount  • Peer code review.  • Involved in creation of UI component by using listview panel, detail view panel, wizard step and other pcf elements  • Utilizing data model feature like entity creation, extension, typelist  • Experienced in utilizing Query API for all Guidewire queries  • Extensively involve in bug triage, analysis and resolving Production issue.  • Meetings with the Business Analyst, Product Owner and Business Users to discuss business scenario to implement new functionality or fix existing functionality.    Project: RiskConsole Java Developer /Technical Analyst AON October 2012 to April 2015 Methodology: Agile (Scrum)    Description:  Risk Console is a web-based Risk Management Information System (RMIS) that uses claim, exposure, policy, and other risk-related data to provide risk managers with a comprehensive view of their organization's risk. Risk Console is an effective risk management system that enables organizations to reduce their overall costs and improve their risk management practices.    Technology: Java 1.6, GWT/GXT, Spring MVC, Spring Core, iBatis, JQWidget, Jsp, Servlet, Oracle 11g, Linux, InteliJ, QC, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for enhancing and developing modules.  • Familiarizing the team with the customer needs, specifications, design targets, the development process, design standards, techniques and tools to support task performance.  • Assure that all team members have the required education and training to effectively participate on their assigned task.  • Manage, train, and help the development of team members and provide them all necessary business information to lead problem solving and collaboration.  • Coordinate the review, presentation and release of design layouts, drawings, analysis and other documentation.  • Coordinates meetings with the Business Analyst, Project Manager and Onsite Team to discuss project impediments, needed resources or issues/delays in completing the task.  • Provide status reporting of team activities against the program plan or schedule.  • Communicate and resolve interface and integration issues with other teams  • Work with managers and the client to obtain necessary resources to support the team's requirements.  • Create an environment oriented to open communications, creative thinking, cohesive team effort and workplace trust.  • Provide my team with the company's vision and the objectives of all projects.    Project: Plant PO Technical Lead Pearson Publishing June 2011 to October 2012 Methodology: Agile (Scrum)    Description:  The existing PCS (Publishing Control System) suite of applications hosts the production and manufacturing functions under one umbrella. However, the current system does not support the feature to identify print / non-print expenses for production components in Pearson Education North America. Since all groups in Pearson Education North America - US Higher Education, US School Group, US Publishing Learning Solutions, US Publishing Technology Group, US English Language Teaching and Pearson Canada Production and Editorial - are part of this initiative, and each of these groups function with different systems and workflow processes, the objective of this project is to facilitate a streamlined process of identifying the same and modeling it along the lines of the existing methodology in traditional print manufacturing.    Technology: Java 1.6, JSP, Servlet, Struts1.2, Hibernate, Sybase, Linux, Eclipse    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for enhancing and developing modules.  • Familiarizing the team with the customer needs, specifications, design targets, the development process, design standards, techniques and tools to support task performance.  • Assure that all team members have the required education and training to effectively participate on their assigned task.  • Manage, train, and help the development of team members and provide them all necessary business information to lead problem solving and collaboration.  • Coordinate the review, presentation and release of design layouts, drawings, analysis and other documentation.  • Coordinates meetings with the Business Analyst, Project Manager and Onsite Team to discuss project impediments, needed resources or issues/delays in completing the task.  • Provide status reporting of team activities against the program plan or schedule.  • Communicate and resolve interface and integration issues with other teams  • Work with managers and the client to obtain necessary resources to support the team's requirements.  • Create an environment oriented to open communications, creative thinking, cohesive team effort and workplace trust.  • Provide my team with the company's vision and the objectives of all projects.    Project: Web Analytics Technical Lead Fatwire May 2010 to June 2011 Methodology: Agile (Scrum)    Description:  FatWire Analytics is a highly modular and scalable application that monitors and statistically analyzes website traffic generated from the visitor's activity, as visitor browse the site powered by Content Server (CS) application. Fatwire Analytics is a plug-in for the Content-Server web application (CS). The FatWire Analytics uses the Page Tagging technique to collect the web analytic data for tracking the visitor's behavior. The captured raw data then processed statistically and several types of comprehensive reports are generated that helps the site administrator to discover the traffic patterns to systematically improve and fine-tune the site for better usage. This component provide end-to-end application flow, i.e., from data capture to report generation.    Technologies Used: Java 1.6, JSP, Servlet, XML, Oracle11g, PL/SQL, Linux    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for enhancing, developing and maintaining FatWire's Java-based products.  • Design, document and implement enterprise strength software solutions.  • Implement stories within the scope and within the time estimates.  • Manage Bug using Test track.  • Providing customer support using Parature.  • Identifying missing or incomplete requirements in the product specification.  • Assure the overall technical quality of the solution  • Help team members in resolving key technical issues on project.  • Research latest technologies and share knowledge with the rest of the team.  • Follows disciplined software development practices.    Project: Spectrum Automation Management Lead Engineer Computer Associates February 2010 to April 2010 Methodology: Agile (Scrum)    Description:  This is an upgrade of the existing version r11.7 of VPM and SAM to the major upgrade version r12.0. The version r11.7 contains relational databases. The challenge is to migrate relational database into object oriented databases.    Responsibilities:  • Design, document and implement database using MS Sql Server.  • Manage Bug using BugZilla.  • Identifying missing or incomplete requirements in the product specification.  • Help team members in resolving key technical issues on project.  • Research latest technologies and share knowledge with the rest of the team.  • Follows disciplined software development practices.    Technologies: Java 1.6, SQL Server 2003, Window 2003 Professional    Project: Skyroad Sr. Software Engineer Primus August 2009 to January 2010 Methodology: Waterfall    Description:  Skyroad is designed to gather accurate and timely financial data like rating, watch and outlook of the entities. The data gathered from third parties like Moody's, S&P, Fitch, etc. were extracted and manipulated and stored in database to provide input to reports. Through Skyroad Primus Financial also launches his own rating system called Primus Rating into the market. This Rating and other financial data are required by the company to perform his daily basis trading on financial securities and entities.    Technologies Used: Java 1.5, Spring, Hibernate3.0, Oracle10g, PL/SQL, Linux, JBoss and Eclipse    Project: CDOSuite Integration Software Engineer Primus May 2009 to August 2009 Methodology: Waterfall    Description:  CDO Suite is a database application built on Microsoft's SQL Server 2000 platform. Users access the application via Internet Explorer (IE). In essence, each screen that a user sees in IE is the presentation of the results of the executing one or more of CDO Suite's SQL stored procedures. Similarly, we can create reports that also present the results of running CDO Suite's SQL stored procedure. CDO Suite has an integrated user front end to run reports based on Microsoft's SQL Reporting Services (RS).    Technologies: Java 1.5, SQL Server 2003, Window 2003 Professional    Project: EPrimus Software Engineer Primus February 2006 to May 2009 Methodology: Waterfall    Description:  EPrimus, designed solely for Primus Financial Products to perform credit analysis, trading, risk management and market analysis to provide Credit Swap. EPrimus's principal business is selling credit swaps under which company assume the risk of default generally on investment grade credit obligations. The protection company sell takes the form of a credit swap. Credit swaps are an efficient and standardized mechanism to reduce credit risk exposure arising from the ownership of financial obligations such as bonds, loans and receivables. The primary purchasers of credit swaps are commercial and investment banks as well as credit portfolio managers, insurance companies and other financial institutions.    Technologies: Java 1.5, Oracle 10g, Linux    Project: DataQAPlus (QA Tool) Web Developer Ebusinessware India Pvt. Ltd June 2004 to February 2006 Methodology: Waterfall    Technologies: Java 1.4, JSP, Servlet, Oracle 8i, Linux    Description: DataQAPlus is a QA Tool design entirely for the use of QA team of a BPO section of the company. DataQAPlus provide enough QA tools for QA team to verify financial data. DataQAPlus fetch data from the database and display in a report format. It also facilitates user to generate report in Excel format Education Visa Extension 2021 MCA Uttar Pradesh Technical University June 2004 Skills Spring, Java J2Ee, Hibernate, J2Ee, Java Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/Anshul-Saxena