ServiceNow Developer ServiceNow <span class="hl">Developer</span> ServiceNow Developer - Cotiviti Miami, FL • Overall 10+ years of professional experience in IT industry.  • Experience in ServiceNow platform implementation, support, development, and administration.  • Direct hands on experience on various IT Services of Service-Now tool like Service Catalog Requests, Configuration Management, Service-Now Administration, Incident and Problem Management, Asset Management, Knowledge Management, Reporting, Gauges, Integration with Web Services.  • Web development with HTML, CSS, Javascript, AngularJS, jQuery, jellyscripting.  • Expertise on creation of workflows for Service Catalog items in ServiceNow including Active Directory (AD) orchestration.  • Strong skill set in ServiceNow suite development including SOAP/REST integration, Web services, Workflows.  • Experience in configuring and customizing all aspects of ServiceNow like UI actions, UI Policy, Business rules, Data policies, Client scripts.  • Experience in Implementing Single Sign On (SSO) using SAML 2.0.  • Experience in designing, developing, customizing & administering ITSM suite of applications.  • Experience in enhancing the ServiceNow functionality by customized JavaScript code to support the new business needs.  • Experience in assigning SLA's to the incident management.  • Experience in creating Portfolio in Eureka and Fuji release.  • Familiar with Studio Editor, Script Editor, Customizations and the API.  • Exposure to Service-Now platform tools like Discovery and Orchestration Environment.  • In depth knowledge on technical implementation on various modules of Service-now like Incident Management, Problem Management, Change Management, Configuration Management.  • Experience in Server Script (Business Rules/Script Include) and good understanding of Server/Client API.  • Worked on creating users, roles, groups and configured LDAP Server and LDAP Listener for updating the user and group table record.  • Data modeling and creating ACL for new custom tables. Also, involved creating Custom Application and Modules.  • Experience in creating transform maps both automatic field mapping and scripting.  • Knowledge on Automation Test Framework (ATF).  • Worked with Import Sets and Update Sets in ServiceNow.  • Service-Now Administration and Production support including maintenance of lower life cycle instances.  • Good understanding of object-oriented analysis design and application development. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience ServiceNow Developer Cotiviti - Atlanta, GA May 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Development and Ongoing Support for projects on Incident, Problem, Service Request, Change Management, Knowledge Management, Integrations and Discovery.  • Resolving the incidents before breaching of predefined Service Level Agreements (SLAs) and Operational Level Agreements (OLAs).  • Interaction with the client on daily basis to modify/enhance the documented stories.  • Implement Service-Now customization including, but not limited to, Client Scripts, UI policies, UI Actions, Script Includes, Business Rules, workflow administration, report setup, and data imports and exports.  • Automated the process of adding the user to the specified AD groups through orchestration and reducing the manual tasks to other teams and speeding up the procedure.  • Created complex workflow for deployment related service catalog items.  • Recommended appropriate design alternatives to be implemented based on customer constraints.  • Deploy the update sets from one instance to another instance i.e., from Development to Test and then to Production by following internal deployment procedure.  • Created Outbound Email Notifications using Email Templates and worked on notification email script.  • Built the test cases and took over responsibility of UAT and deployment.  • Review and perform internal testing. Suggest modifications as per the best practices.  • Worked on the location based tasks with the data coming from multiple domains. Designed the workflows to route the tasks based on the location and domain to specified assignment groups.  • Analysis of different IT Service Management (ITSM) modules in both the instances as a part of consolidation project.  • Responsible for analysis of service catalog items in both the instances and building them in Cotiviti.  • Created import set table and scheduled job for the data migration from other instance.  • Created multiple reports and Visual Task Boards.  • Worked with different teams on several Feature Enhancements and Functionality Developments.  • Configuration of ServiceNow modules, Applications, Forms, Email Notifications, etc.  • Debug and Troubleshoot activities on ACLs for Access Related issues.  • Written script includes and invoked them in business rules and client scripts.  • Creation and modification of various scheduled jobs to generate automated tasks.  • Involved in London Upgrade in ServiceNow, analysis of the impact on the existing customization after Jakarta Upgrade and worked on fixing the issues.    Environment: ServiceNow London/Jakarta, ITIL, JavaScript, Ajax, RESTful and SOAP Web Services, Jellyscript, XML, JQuery, ServiceNow Developer Accenture - Chicago, IL January 2015 to April 2017 Responsibilities:  • Working for different clients on several Feature Enhancements and Functionality Development in Domain Separated Environment.  • Manually created multiple Domains and multiple Companies under their respective domains.  • Created a record producer to automate the process of creating domain, Company, client administration group and visibility groups with respective roles.  • Developed Service catalogs by creating new Catalog items, Designing workflows and Execution plans.  • Interaction with the client on daily basis to modify/enhance the documented stories.  • Created outbound email notifications using email templates and also worked on notification email script.  • Provided multiple demos and training sessions to a large audience on the new tool and its capabilities.  • Integrated ServiceNow with internal Legacy Applications through Inbound Email Actions.  • Created multiple Script Includes, Business Rules and UI Scripts.  • Designed and developed customized process for the incoming email action.  • Development and Ongoing Support for projects on Incident, Problem, Service Request, Change Management (including the release management) and Demand Management.  • Configuration of ServiceNow modules, Applications, Forms, Email Notifications, SLA for priority tickets, etc.  • Implemented a new feature for "Email Clients" and embedded it into the Requested Items form. This helped agents to communicate with the customers with the given Reply, Reply All and Forward UI actions and respond back with Ease.  • Built the test cases and took over responsibility of UAT and deployment.  • Migrating the update sets from one instance to another instance i.e., from Development to QA and then to Production.  • Created many User's, Group's and involved in assigning specific Roles as part of Persona Management.  • Troubleshooted Access Related issues.  • Written script includes and invoked them in business rules and client scripts.  • Created transform maps both automatic field mapping and scripting.  • Using SOAP web services Configured mailboxes to ServiceNow instances using SQL server as a medium to create tickets, when customer sends an email to those mailboxes.  • Creation and modification of various jobs scheduling.    Environment: ServiceNow, ITIL, JavaScript, Jelly, Ajax, SOAP Web Services, XML, JQuery, JSON ServiceNow Administrator AT&T - Richardson, TX September 2012 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Performing day to day Development and Implementation as per the client business requirements.  • Proposing up of new business solutions with in service now to make customer beneficial.  • Design Implementation of new functionality of Business Rules, Client Scripts, UI Policies, UI scripts, and Access Control List.  • Working with web services, inbound email actions and different interfaces.  • Worked on Agile method environment and implemented the changes required by the business owners on a regular basis.  • Worked with clients to assess current state processes and tools, defined Service-Now requirements and developed and configured the Service-Now platform.  • Created and maintained change management requests for assigned implementations and managing the change process.  • Adjusted Service-Now import sets and transforms maps accordingly to ensure data entering Service-Now tables matched the company outlined requirements.  • Worked on enhancements for Incident Management like Critical alarm handling and On Call Scheduling Modules.  • Created Dash boards on requirement.  • Worked in Agile methodology.    Environment: Service-Now, Change Management, Incident Management, ITIL, Problem Management Java Developer GCOM Systems - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2010 to August 2012 Responsibilities:  • Requirement gathering and understanding.  • Creation of highly Usable, Accessible, X-Browser, X-Resolution, and X-Platform compatible web applications using (X)HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JavaScript Libraries.  • Translated wireframes into optimized program code using XHTML, CSS, JavaScript and DHTML.  • Worked extensively on numerous web technologies including HTML5, CSS 2.0, CSS 3.0, and JavaScript.  • Tested websites for W3C validation and testing it in major browsers like Firefox, IE7, IE8 and Opera.  • Used Firebug, Firebug Lite, and IE Developer Toolbar for debugging and browser compatibility.  • Fixed bugs and provided support services for the application.  • Handling code optimization techniques to decrease much use of JavaScript in creating dynamic functionality, with the use of CSS classes.  • Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly.  • Provided JavaScript and CSS fixes for the UI for issue like orientation issues in web and JQuery implementation.  • Worked on developing application in safari and chrome.  • Provided a brandable solution for all application so that header and footer are the same across the application.    Environment: HTML, DHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, JQuery, SVN,Microsoft FrontPage, and Adobe Photoshop CS3. Security Engineer ValueLabs - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2008 to June 2010 Intern)  Responsibilities:  • Perform onsite and remote security consulting including penetration testing, application testing, web application security assessment and Threat modelling.  • Skilled using Burp suite, Nmap, Nessus for web application penetration tests and infrastructure testing.  • Using various add-ons in Mozilla to assess the application like live http header, tamper data.  • Having better knowledge in understanding OWASP top 10 Vulnerabilities mainly on XSS, SQL injection, Weak Cryptography, Authentication Flaws.  • Generate and present reports on security vulnerabilities to both internal and external customers.  • Update with the new hacking and latest vulnerabilities to confirm no such loopholes present in the existing system.  • Perform and create procedures for IT security audits, penetration-tests, vulnerability assessments, and overall security assessment.  • Instrumental in spreading security awareness to all employees as well as within IT. Education Bachelor's Skills Change management, Itil, C++, Html, Javascript Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    ITSM Tools  ServiceNow, Incident Management, Problem Management, Service Desk , Service Request Management ,Change Management 7.6.4/6.x/5.x/4.x,Remedy Asset Management 7.6.4/6.x/5.x/4.x, Service Level Agreement 7.x, Mid-Tier, DSO, Remedy Migrator 7.x/5.x, BMC Atrium CMDB 2.x, Remedy Approval Engine    Specialties ServiceNow, ITIL.  Languages C, C++, Java, Java, SQL, PL/SQL, XML, PHP, HTML, CSS, AJAX.  Scripting Language JavaScript, Jelly Script  Database Oracle 10g/ 9i/8i, MS Access, MS SQL Server 2000/2005, CMDB  Database Tools TOAD, SQL*Plus10g/9i.  Web Technologies PHP, XML, HTML, Java, Java Script  Operating System UNIX, Linux and Windows