Senior Technical Specialist Senior Technical Specialist Senior Technical Specialist - Xerox-Conduent; HPLP (Harvard Business School), PMP®,CSPO®,CSM® Germantown, MD I' m committed to working smarter and faster to ensure that clients get what they ask for. I am a technically confident manager who is comfortable performing in a role that is 80% Technical and 20% Managerial. As a true professional, I have no trouble rolling up her sleeves and getting involved in hard-core technical issues. On a personal level, I have a natural passion for fresh ideas and thinking. Currently my technical expertise to help employer to consistently develop safe, legal, ethical and successful products.  Additional areas of expertise include:  ? Process Analysis and Redesign.  ? Project Management and Tracking.  ? Budgeting and ; Planning.  ? Management of Cross-Functional Teams.  ? System Solution Architectures.  ? Cost and; Resource Estimates.  ? Project and; Delivery Methodologies.  ? Change Control Management.  ? Project Risk and; Scope. Work Experience Senior Technical Specialist Xerox- conduent - Germantown, MD 2014 to Present Manage complex client solutions overseeing payment processes, risk mitigation and software development cycles for a 5 year $700M project  ? Re-engineered technical processes pertaining to transportation smart cards utilizing big data analytics to implement high volume transaction solutions resulting in ~35% efficiencies and increased customer usability  ? Liaised in field with client and conducted on site training and education to prioritize pain points and incorporate customer experience metrics during product development states to ensure product viability and customer satisfaction  ? Developing professional client relationships that will set a stable foundation for future business opportunities.  ? Performing scheduled and ad-hoc out of hours project work.  ? Acting upon process inefficiencies.  ? Overseeing site based technical audits and assessments.  ? Investigation any safety, technical, or reliability issues relating to a project.  ? Driving business and commercial improvements.  ? Working effectively under pressure or in ambiguous situations. Technical Architect Hexaware - San Francisco, CA 2014 to 2014 On site consultant for Virgin America designing and implementing reservation systems for both internal stakeholders and third party vendors ensuring maximum efficiencies for both ticket purchases, reservation modifications, baggage management and boarding processes  ? Built and implemented the Automated Bug tool to mitigate automation errors and risks. Team Lead Ness 2012 to 2014 On site consultant for Farmers Telecom overseeing team of 2 collaborating with business users to determine end user requirements for developing/enhancing FTC applications managing technical specifications and internal application development utilizing vendor tools  ? Conducted conflict resolution and problem solving supporting a variety of telecom-specific business applications, and maintained day-to-day support for existing FTC internet/intranet application.  ? Re-engineered existing IT sales solution to increase business development opportunities resulting in increased sales of ~15% annually. Senior Java Developer Interglobe Technologies - Los Angeles, CA 2009 to 2012 On site consultant for Princess Cruises creating efficiencies to facilitate end users and online booking and reservation systems.  ? Managed off shore team of 6 technical associates as onsite lead to develop information technology solutions enabling internal users to manage system operations. Java /J2EE Developer Perot System Noida (India) - Noida, Uttar Pradesh 2009 to 2009 Supported design and implementation of IT solutions for U.K. based client Auto trader (U.K) Trader Media Group enhancing functionality of end user interface.  ? Created platforms and processes to manage transactions and implement business logic resulting in automation efficiencies of ~10%. Java/J2EE Developer Tech Mahindra Ltd - Noida, Uttar Pradesh 2008 to 2009 Engineered and implemented internal administration processes and solutions overseeing task allocation and vendor management  ? Created client accessible library of solutions and processes to ensure maximum impact and transfer of best practices and efficiencies. Application Developer (J2EE) Trila Soft - Delhi, Delhi 2007 to 2008 Developed applications for relocation management software to interface between customers and vendors providing service like origin to destination, and giving the end to end solutions to shipping, transport and logistics companies. Java Developer NCERT - Delhi, Delhi 2003 to 2007 Oversaw organization information in different states, union territories and at the national level to streamline statistical research for academic focused projects informing education policies sponsored by the Ministry of Human Resource Development. Education High Potentials Leadership Program Harvard Business School 2018 Masters in Computer Science in Computer Science Jawahar Lal Nehru University 2003 Skills Java1.8, EJB,JMS, Hibernate, Jibx, Maven, XML, XSD, RAD, JUnit, REST Web Services, J2EE design pattern and GoF Design Pattern, UML, Oracle 11g and TimesTen In-Memory Database (TimesTen) and batch processing job (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses ? Certified Scrum Master (CSM®). September 2017 to September 2019 ? Certified Scrum Product Owner (CSPO ®). April 2018 to April 2020 ? Project Management Professional (PMP®). July 2019 to July 2022