Sr. Android Developer Sr. Android <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Android Developer - Comcast Philadelphia, PA ? Around 8+ years of experience in IT including analysis, design, development, maintenance and testing of web applications using Android and Java/J2EE and 6+ years of experience in application development, bug fixing, porting and publishing on Android.  ? Experienced Mobile/Android developer designed and developed commercial customer applications for Android mobile devices with extensive user interface development.  ? Experienced in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as Requirements Gathering, Project Design, Development, Support and maintenance phases to meet requirement of theproject and familiar agile software development methodologies as well.  ? Expertise in working withIDE tools like Eclipse, Android Studio.  ? Experience with Object Oriented Programming (OOP).  ? Comfortable working with Core JAVA.  ? Knowledge onAutomotive app development.  ? Experience in Requirements Analysis and developing Technical Specification and Design Document.  ? Proficient with Java, Android NDK and Android SDK version Android 1.5 to Android 6.0(Gingerbread, Honey comb, Ice cream sandwich, Jellybean, Kit Kat, Lollipop and Marshmallow).  ? Knowledge on Pivotal Software.  ? Experience on Android UI components such as Text View, List View, Customized List View, Menus, Edit boxes, Buttons, Checkboxes, Dialog boxes, Alert boxes, Action bars, and Spinners for various layouts in Application development.  ? Good knowledge of Debugging, issue analysis and finding theroot cause of theissue.  ? Experience working with Google Maps APIs, SQLite, Geocoder API.  ? Excellent debugging and problem-solving skills with Eclipse, IDEA, Android Studioand RAD.  ? Experience in usingSQLite Database for mobile data management, SQL SERVER database for web data management  ? Experience inusing Storage options inAndroid like Shared Preferences.  ? Strong knowledge of Android basic component i.e. Activity, Fragment, Service, Broadcast Receiver and Content Provider.  ? Proficient in working with web technologies like XML, JNI ( Java Native Interface), JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, HTML.  ? Knowledge on Embedded Linux, BSP work.  ? Good understanding on forums like EMVCo,GSMA.  ? Good knowledge on ISO/IEC17025 in technical and quality aspects.  ? Knowledge of Bluetooth, NFC, industry background.  ? Knowledge of Mobile Security concepts.  ? Experience in Graphic designing in Adobe Photoshop, MS Visio and FrontPage for rich user-friendly front end contents.  ? Experience in working with the different UI component in Android along with MP charts, ActionBar and View Pager.  ? Delivered working with highly technical product teams.  ? Team player with strong work ethics, hard and smart working having excellent analytical and programming skills with acommitment to excellence.  ? Excellent problem-solving skills with a strong technical background and good interpersonal skills.  ? Excellent verbal and written communication skills and adaptable to any situation. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Android Developer Comcast - Philadelphia, PA June 2015 to Present Description:Comcast Cable is the cable television division of Comcast Corporation, providing cable television, broadband internet, and VOIP telephone under the Xfinity brand. XFINITY mobile Apps(Comcast) let you access your favourite shows, pay your bill, view email and more theXFINITY TV Remote App for Android devices from Google play.  Responsibilities:  ? Analysing the requirements, and understanding the functional specifications.  ? Development of various modules in accordance with Agile Methodology framework. Collaborating along with the Business Analysis, Design, QA and Development team in shaping the product as per the customers' requirements.  ? Worked on core framework of the Android and Web Application Design and its communication (e.g. Web Services, Database, Connectivity's, UI).  ? Development of key functionalities like on middleware side, Database design, Android framework for multiple device support.  ? Involved in Application testing, Memory Analysis, Screen fragmentation support and working with the QA team on thetest plan and test cases.  ? Involved in designing the Web Services and Database design to suite the Android Application support.  ? Involved in designing the interface along with the Design team for better usability and handling across Androidand maintain their relative nativity (phones and tablets.)  ? Bug Fixing of the application and fine tuning of the complete Application end to end.  ? Attendingdaily stand-up meeting, discussing the plan of work to be done.  ? Analysing the existing systems and provide the impact assessments regarding the supporting the applications, debugging analysis, errors and faults correction.  ? Prevention to ensure business applications function smoothly.  Environment: Android SDK 4.3(Gingerbread, Honey comb, Ice cream sandwich, Jellybean, Kit Kat, Lollipop and Marshmallow), ADT-Plugin, Android Studio IDE, Java, SQLite, XML.  Link:https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.comcast.cvs.android&hl=en Sr. Android Developer Wal-Mart - Bentonville, AR November 2013 to May 2015 AR  Description: Walmart helps people around the world anytime and anywhere through their mobile devices. This application provides customers anywhere and anytime access to updates on the status of their shipments. Customers can retrieve up to date information. This app is designed with supply-chain and logistics conscious for business customers.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in entire software development process for all assigned Android application development projects  ? Requirement specification, design, implementation, testing, and maintenance.  ? Implemented List View, so as to show the news and promos as a form of alist.  ? Discussed the requirements with the client and analysed the requirements.  ? Design screens using MVC pattern for the application with Android Studio IDE.  ? Analysed the requirements of the main menu features that can be supported in Android phones.  ? Worked with Instruments tools extensively at the end of thedevelopment cycle to minimize memory leaks and assure overall application stability.  ? Used various design patterns to manage code and data efficiently.  ? Created numerous helper classes that can be used throughout the classes.  ? Worked on linear, frame and relative layouts.  ? Made Restful service calls using Google's Volley ball Library at different levels of the development of application.  ? Implemented RESTFUL API calls to communicate with theserver.  ? Worked on building and deploying various API services.  ? Implemented Fragments, Activities.  ? Added support for downloading and opening photos, PDF.  ? Used A-sync Task for multithreading.  ? Followed Agile and Scrum methodologies in the project implementation.  ? Implemented Notification Manager to display updates on the notification bar.  ? Implementing Broadcast Receivers for Android.  ? Used shared preferences to store data.  ? Developed the UI screens, which met the UI requirements compliance.  ? Used Eclipse for development, debugging, coding and deployment of the applications.  ? Performed functionalitytesting.  Environment: Android 2.0/2(Gingerbread, Honey comb, Ice cream sandwich, Jellybean, Kit Kat, Lollipop and Marshmallow), Eclipse 3.6, ADT Plug-in, SQLite, XML, Java, Google-Map kit.  Link:https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.walmart.android&hl=en Android Developer DIRECTV - Alpharetta, GA March 2012 to October 2013 GA  Description: "DirecTV customer portal mobile" application allows customers to order products and services from their iPhone. It allows the users to schedule work visits to locations, submit smart hand requests and provide feedback on the product and services.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in requirement gathering and designing of the application.  ? Responsible for consuming the REST services, getting JSON response and parsing them to get the required information.  ? Implemented unique design for portrait and landscape mode.  ? Implemented SQLite database.  ? Work closely with the web application development team to ensure proper integration between mobile application and web application.  ? Debugging and Root cause analysis of production issues.  ? Designed and Developed the barcode feature in Native.  ? Tested the application on various Android device.  Environment:Android 2.3-4.0.3, Android SDK(Gingerbread, Honey comb, Ice cream sandwich, Jellybean, Kit Kat, Lollipop and Marshmallow), Java, Eclipse, Google Maps API, Emulator, SQLite, AndroidXML. Android Developer American Airlines - Tulsa, OK August 2010 to February 2012 OK  Description:American Airlines application consists of all the information required. The app includes detailed information about dynamic home screen, mobile boarding pass, flight updates, interactive terminal maps, information about seat selection and also seat upgrading, saving the reservation, tracking baggage, quick interactions, Wi-Fi access in air.  Responsibilities:  ? Understanding the client requirements.  ? Designed and developed Mobile Media application for Android mobile devices with extensive user interface development.  ? Responsible for design of user interface using various custom layouts, buttons, dialog boxes, alert boxes.  ? Worked on understanding the application architecture.  ? Inserted suitable code to capture the various button and text field events and implemented the desired action for each of them.  ? Used Android content providers for implementing features like sending E-mails, sharing using Facebook, Email, Twitter, SMS, etc., from the app and designed suitable GUI for these applications.  ? Used services, A synctasks, and Alert Notification API to implement event reminder feature into the mobile app.  ? Developed the presentation layer of the application using the struts framework &JSP.  ? Developed interfaces and used JDBC for database connections.  ? Worked with business teams using Agile methodology to integrate business line of apps in a seamless fashion.  ? Bug fixing during the QA Cycle.  ? Involved in developer testing by porting the app tomultiple devices with various screen sizes.  Environment: Android SDK 5.1, Eclipse IDE, EGIT 3.4.1, C++, JDK, XML and JSON parsing, Android maps API.  Link:https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.aa.android&hl=en Java Developer VBB Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2008 to June 2010 Hyderabad, India  Description:A work order or job order (sometimes job ticket or work ticket, as it often has some type of ticket attached) is an order received by an organization from a customer or client, or an order created internally within the organization. A work order may be for products or services. Orders received from outside an organization are often dispatched (reviewed and scheduled) before being executed. Work orders may be for preventive maintenance. Contractors may use a single job work order and invoice form that contains the customer information, describes the work performed, lists charges for material and labour, and can be given to the customer as an invoice.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in business requirements gathering and their analysis  ? Producing design specification documents covering high level and detailed design  ? Design, develop, test and maintain high performing server backend REST API/Services using Spring- Java latest trends  ? Interface with internal team, including offshore, to coordinate offshore-specific activities of the project  ? Creating Unit Test Plan, writing J Units  ? Development - Coding, code walkthrough and doing code reviews  ? Resolving technical and design issues  ? Performing Unit testing, Integration testing and fixing defects  ? Work on "Go Live" activities as per the Implementation Plan to enable production of application without any issues  ? Respond to production issues as per SLA  ? Develop and maintaintechnical documentation related to the project  ? Preparing knowledge transfer documents and handing over primarysupport  Environment: Apache Tomcat 1.7, Java1.7, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Eclipse, JDBC, Adobe Flash Programming, Oracle, Linux, JavaScript, XML, HTML, database, Apache Server. Education Bachelor's Skills DATABASE (7 years), JAVA (7 years), XML (7 years), ANDROID (7 years), ECLIPSE (6 years), Android SDK 4.3(Gingerbread, Honey comb, Ice cream sandwich, Jellybean, Kit Kat, Lollipop and Marshmallow), ADT-Plugin, Android Studio IDE, Java, SQLite, XML. Link:https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.comcast.cvs.android&hl=en (8 years), Google, Embedded, Framework, Git, Android Sdk Additional Information Technical Proficiencies  Android OS: Android 3.x to Android 6.x (Éclair, Gingerbread, Honey comb, Ice cream sandwich, Jellybean, Kit Kat, Lollipop, Marshmallow)  Programming Languages: core JAVA, C  Mobile Technologies: Android, J2ME  Web Technologies: HTML5, Java script, XML, PHP  Design Patterns: Data Access Objects, object-oriented design, Model View Controller Architecture and Front Controller.  Application Servers: IBM HTTP Server, Tomcat 8.0  Tools: Android studio, Eclipse IDE 4.4, JIRA, Source Tree, GIT.  Scripting Languages: Java script  Parsing Techniques: JSON Parsing and XML Parsing  Database: MySQL, SQLite  IDE: Eclipse, Android Studio  Operating systems: Windows, Android Variants