Senior Java Developer Senior <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Java Developer - Appzen, America Center Cary NC Cary, NC • Sr. Java Full stack Software Engineer with more than 14 years using J2EE/J2SE and JavaScript experience in every step of the software development life cycle working for international companies working in the financial, banking and ecommerce business for top companies in Mexico and US.  • Extensive experience in the IT area, supporting companies in the analysis, design and development of systems of various areas such as ecommerce, banking, inventories, training, brokerage, banks, ERP, budget management.  • Strong ability in systems design, performing analysis, requirements definition, database design, software engineering and development of systems in levels from the front-end to the back-end.  • Participated in requirement gathering to document project requirements using use case modeling technique.  • Involved in the object-oriented analysis and design of the software architecture of many large-scale projects and mission critical applications, using different architectures (Spring, client-server, distributed component architecture) and several design patterns to model systems using UML.  • Involved in the development of many complex projects, using the best technologies available today, like core Java, J2EE, JQuery, Spring, Hibernate, PL/SQL, HTML5/CSS3, Agile/Scrum, Web responsive, continuous integration. Proficient in many other programming languages and frameworks as well.  • Extensively experienced in using various design patterns such as MVC (Model-View-Controller), such as Multithreading, Singleton, Session Façade in the development of Multi-Tier distributed Enterprise Applications.  • Experience in developing User Interface (UI) Applications and professional web applications using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, XHTML and XML.  • Experience in developing server-side applications based on Restful Web-Services and SOAP, using different frameworks like Spring, Hibernate.  • Expertise in using tools like SVN, CVS, VPN, JIRA, Ant, Maven, log4j, JUnit, SQL Developer, GitHub, TOAD, Tortoise, NetBeans, Eclipse, IntelliJ.  • Expertise in using J2EE Application Servers such as WebLogic, JBoss 3.x and Web Servers like Tomcat 5.x/6.x  • Expert level skills in programming with Spring/Struts Framework, Custom Tag Libraries, Struts Validation Framework, Spring MVC.  • Good experience in various Integrated Development Environments (IDE) My Eclipse 8.6, NetBeans 6.8, Eclipse 3.X, IntelliJ.  • Excellent technical knowledge in back-end RDBMS tools like Oracle 9i/10G and MySQL.  • Experience in designing and coding Stored Procedures, functions, triggers, packages using SQL and PLSQL with tuning concepts and comfortable working with databases like SQL Server, DB2, No-SQL and MySQL.  • Expertise in developing unit testing suites using JUnit, DB Unit based on test first or test driven methodology.  • Experience in all phases of SDLC like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and Maintenance, and extensive experience with Agile Methodology.  • Developed, Tested and Deployed applications on Windows platforms.  • Technical leader who performs functions such as team management, progress monitoring, performance reporting, coordination of scrum meetings and interviews with new candidates.  • Experience in using software versioning and revision control system like Apache Subversion (SVN), CVS and Rational Clear case.  • Experience in building unit testing modules and documentation.  • Experience working with mainframe systems running legacy components and use JCA to integrate these components with modern applications. Experience analyzing backend dialogs to determine legacy systems behaviors.  • Consider myself as quick learner, highly motivated and hard worker Work Experience Senior Java Developer Appzen, America Center Cary NC - Cary, NC, US February 2018 to Present Project Description: Enhancement and bug correction of the client's application, on a back-ned level. Enhancement of code and migration from java 6 to java 8, creation of new modules which includes design of new data tables, Mappers, Jooq classes. Using scrum methodology.  Job Responsibilities:  • Maintenance of the client's application (bug resolution, improvement of functionality and creation of new modules).  • Worked on a rewrite/write tasks of the different modules coordinating with front-end developers and using Java/Spring MVC/Hibernate/Oracle for the backend.  • Experience designing and implementing Restful APIs including considerations: Swagger documentation, Endpoints definition and creation.  • API governance and factory.  • Design applications with non-functional requirements.  Environment: Java 1.8, J2ee, Spring MVC 4, Spring DI, Jooq, JPA, Rest Web Services, Oracle, MacOS. Senior Java Developer/Technical Lead Grainger - Lake Forest, IL, US August 2016 to January 2018 Project Description: Enhancement and bug correction of the client's web page www.grainger.com, which includes back -end and front-end layers; the client e-commerce is based on Hybris tool. Using scrum methodology and later KANBAN. Management of Grainger-IBM México team; monitoring of progress, tickets attended, performance reporting and scrum board coordination. Coordination of interviews with new candidates.  Job Responsibilities:  • Maintenance of the client's ecommerce site (bug resolution, improvement of functionality and creation of existing modules). Management of the team, monitoring of progress and performance.  • Worked on a rewrite/write of some of the existing product with a team of 5 developers using HTML/CSS for the front end and Java/Spring MVC/Hibernate/Oracle for the backend.  • Experience designing and implementing Restful APIs including considerations as: Versioning, cache management, pagination, header handling, and standard status codes management, debugging, and documentation.  • Implemented Spring MVC, IOC, Spring Boot, Transactions, Spring JDBC template, JSON features.  • API governance and factory.  • Design applications with non-functional requirements  • High availability and scalability using clustering environments (app server and database engine)  • High performance using cache system  • Modular design to ensure reusability  • Reduced the compilation time of the environment from 45 minutes, on average, to 20 minutes with the development of a .bat file that automated the compilation process.  • Participated in the team that reduced the migration process from 2hrs 40min to 20min of the Hybris version, minimizing human error during the process and executing the system in the new version.  • Monitoring Mexico team performance, weekly performance report to the account manager, coordinating interviews for new candidates.  Environment: Java 1.8, J2ee, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Spring MVC 4, Spring DI, Spring AOP, Spring Batch, Spring Integration, Spring MVC, Hibernate, JPA, Rest Web Services, Oracle, Windows. Sr. Java Developer Grupo TI México April 2014 to July 2016 Project Description: Development of front-end and back-end of the modules from business analysis, use cases, design database development Stored Procedures, front design with CSS3. Review boards with the end user for clarification of doubts, requirements definition, Interface creation, modification and creation of DB.  Job Responsibilities:  • Development of the front-end and back-end of the different modules of several systems, design of the database and the front with CSS3, development of Stored Procedures.  • Delivered in time and manner and with a minimum of errors and rework the CIP Project that was 3 months late.  • Designed the look and feel of the system and the database; analyzing the previous system in a 3 weeks period, managing to compensate the delay that was of little more than a month.  • Handled a large-scale backend application built on RESTful API for the Web Application  • Integrated both Android and iOS mobile applications with client API.  • Coding experience in Scala using Play Framework  • Hands on experience with Docker, MVC Architecture and cURL  • Having in-depth knowledge of the backend client API functionality  • Used Maven for generating system builds and Bamboo for continuous integration(CI).  • Setup Continuous Integration and automated deployments using Bamboo.  • Created JUnit and TestNG test suites for different modules, including the features I developed/ enhanced.  • Worked with multiple teams to analysis the errors in log files, figured out the reason of Errors, and fixed them in pilot environment before going to production or raised bugs with other teams if the issue existed in their system.  • Worked with different teams to gather the requirements and implement the features and did the enhancements  • Responsible for the design, analysis, development and maintenance of the Application using Spring MVC 4, Spring DI, Spring AOP, Spring Batch, Spring Integration, Hibernate, JPA and JAVA.  • Implemented Restful Web Services to provide the Upgrade Eligibility and Selected line for upgrade front-end applications.  • Developed DAOs Data Access Objects and performed O/R mapping using Hibernate to access the data-base.  • Create designs using UML domain modeling, activity and class diagrams, and deployment and component diagrams  Environment: Java 8, J2EE, HTML5, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, WebLogic, API, MVC, JUnit, Sr. Java Developer Asteci S.A. de C.V October 2013 to March 2014 Project Description: Web incidents correction (front-end and back-end), development of new interfaces and components, corrections and improvements of existing interfaces. Coordination team Web development, delivery of reports of activities, delegation of activities and monitoring of progress.  Job Responsibilities:  • Coordination of the Web development team, delivery of activity reports, delegation of activities and progress monitoring.  • Automated the process of creating modules in the system, reducing the process time from 1 day to 10 minutes per module.  • Delivered a graficator that was adapted to all the graphs (between 5 and 7 different types) that the system shows to the users, avoiding that each graph needed its own plotter.  • Participated in the construction of every aspect of web applications projects including technology selection, user stories, requirements, specification, architecture design, versioning, build management, test, integration, deployment, configuration, documentation  • Meet with technology experts to architect, construct and test large-scale/enterprise J2EE systems to address customer's requirements.  • Designed the front-end applications, user interactive web pages using technologies like HTML5, JSP, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, Bootstrap.  • Worked with developer teams to build systems that are capable of handling high volumetric requests and are highly available and scalable.  • Evaluated and propose security, performance and reliability issues and corrections when necessary.  • Maintained the identity infrastructure to access and authorize, based on roles and permissions using standard technologies  • Utilized deployment/continuous build/continuous integration using state of the art tools.  • Tested application to ensure the best quality, performance and functionality. Unit testing TDD, JUnit, Mockito. Tested web app using JS using proprietary libraries, to determine integration testing and performance  • Audited and code reviews. Developed the log system and debug to track defects and correct them.  • Created architectures to leverage testing, integration, maintainability, and encapsulation/independence of components.  • Hands-on experience and able to quickly adapt to requirements and able to quickly detect and solve production problems.  • Maintained the original architecture on every change/update/fix and do not introduce bugs o convention violations.  • Understand designs, solutions, technologies and requirements by analyzing code and documentation in order to maintain or fix defects in the systems or create new modules and functionality.  • Created general solutions in order to enforce code reuse across many systems in the company.  Environment: Java 1.7, J2ee, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Spring, Hibernate, Rest Web Services, Jira, GIT, JUnit, Mockito, Oracle, Windows. Sr. Java Developer ZB Creative Agency April 2012 to September 2013 Project Description: Requirements analysis (interviews with customers, developing Use Cases, DER diagrams), designing the database and architecture of the project. Business Development modules, peer review of the developed modules, on site implementation. Negotiation deadlines and direct customer releases.  Job Responsibilities:  • Analysis of requirements (interviews with the client, preparation of ECU, DER diagrams), design of the database and project architecture. Development of business modules, peer review of the developed modules, on-site implementation.  • Implemented in 2 months PrimeFaces technology, which is what the client had requested for the system, and no member of team knew about this technology.  • Negotiated more realistic delivery dates with the customer, considering the number of items assigned to the team, obtaining 30 days more for the delivery of the project, reducing the pressure of delayed deliveries and satisfying the needs of the client.  • Designing, coding, testing, debugging, documenting and supporting all types of applications consistent with established specifications and business requirements to deliver business value.  • Troubleshoot production support issues post release deployment and come up with solutions. Solve complex production issues.  • Evaluated existing architecture of the firm and played instrumental role in transitioning from Shared Database approach to Messaging based solution.  • Coded Java modules to interface with CAS (single sign-on) and LDAP (for retrieving customer's personal details). Coded Struts's based Java Interceptors and Action classes and configured Tiles and Struts configuration files.  • Implemented J2EE design patterns such as Session Facade, Factory, DAO, DTO, and MVC.  • Develop world-class web applications that will be used by millions of users.  • Develop applications using continuous integration and test-driven development practices.  • Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML files that contains declarations and other dependent objects declaration.  • Designed and documented REST/HTTPAPIs, including JSON data formats and API versioning strategy.  • POC using Apache Camel and successfully integrated couple of existing transactional system in the organization.  Environment: Java, J2ee, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Spring, Hibernate, Rest Web Services, JMS, Websphere MQ, JUnit, SQL, Windows. Sr. Java Developer Banamex January 2010 to March 2012 Description: Correction of incidents reported by the test team. Coordination with BD and test equipment to create new modules, stored procedures and authorization of production output.  Responsibilities:  • Used a JAVA based Integration Tool called Web Methods to monitor the transactions.  • Involved in analysis of the existing application in order to incorporate the new business requirements  • Responsible for developing the code changes for new system.  • Reviewing and adapting system old version to the new version.  • Development of interfaces using Web Methods  Environment: Java/J2EE, JSP, Servlet, XML, Java Script Tomcat, JDBC Window, Hibernate, Spring, Eclipse, Oracle SQL Developer. Sr. Java Developer DGN-VUCEM (SAT) March 2008 to December 2009 Description: Development of the new VUCEM's module. Including classes mapping to tables in the database, creation of the user interface in JSP and JS files. As an additional feature to the construction was the development team coordination. Later, they sent me to the team of Web services to develop them, and assist with training new team members recently graduated from their career.  Responsibilities:  • Development of web services on Stripes architecture.  • Management of development team, for the Train-deliverance module.  • Creation of a program for training for new team members .  Environment: Stripes, StarUML, Eclipse, Oracle SQL Developer, Hibernate, WebLogic, SoapUI, JSP, JS, JUnit, Jasper Reports. Sr. Java Developer Alcatel August 2007 to March 2008 Description: Customer's ISAAC system maintenance, call center multi region system. Correction, improvement and creation of front files, and development of workflows in customer's proprietary technology, developed from JavaScript.  Responsibilities:  • Peer review coordination with all team member, for their assignments and my own.  • Creation of documentation for all the process of the client, from creation of requirement, assignment of the ticket to a team member, follow up of ticket status, peer review result.  Environment: Rhyno, Work Flow Builder, Eclipse, JSP, JS Sr. Java Developer Alcatel September 2006 to July 2007 Description: As principal was the correction of the incidents Sistema de Administración de Identidad Única(SAIU) of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (SRE) within all existing the modules. Such incidents were corrected in all layers of the architecture of the project, meaning these incidences were of both view and functionality type.  Responsibilities:  • Development of front with Ice Faces technology.  • Implementation of JPQL for connection with database, and development of web services for communication with SRE data base.  • Control of status of reported incidents  • Meetings with the QA team for clarification of doubts and agreements.  • Allocation of incidents to the team and eventually resolving incidents.  Environment: Hibernate, Java Server Faces, Eclipse, Oracle SQL Developer, WebLogic, JSF. Sr. Java Developer Elektra Telephony Services Switch May 2005 to August 2006 Description: Front-end development using Javascript and ExtJs; and design and development of java layers "Switch de Servicios de Telefonía" (Telephony Service Switch) project in Struts2 framework  Responsibilities:  • Performing JSP files based on the story board provided, creating architecture that best suits the needs of the project in compliance with layers of struts.  • Correction and enhancement packages and SQL functions, to adapt to changes made to the database in the second phase of the project.  Environment: Hibernate, Struts2, CSS, Eclipse, Oracle SQL Developer, JSP, JS, ExtJs. Analyst Developer Elektra Telephony Services Switch November 2004 to May 2005 Description: Identify and mapping processes, dependencies and business actors Casa de Bolsa Inbursa (Brokerage); carrying control activities and using UML mapping tools such as class and sequence.  Responsibilities:  • To produce inputs for the development of bespoke systems with the java language in the J2EE environment, mainly in the Spring Framework and Hibernate.  • Developing the graphical interface, with ExtJs technology.  • Creating JSP files based on the story board provided.  Environment: Hibernate, Spring, Eclipse, Oracle SQL Developer, WebLogic, BEA, JSP, JS, ExtJs, Jasper Reports, Enterprise Architect. Analyst Developer Elektra Telephony Services Switch February 2004 to October 2004 Description: Correction, Improvement and debugging the existing programs within the ERP enterprise software, and the development of new modules, after analysis, which included creating new tables and adaptation of existing ones.  Responsibilities:  • Reengineering of warehouse module for Tamex client.  • Developing new modules on Progress Character version, performance review with final user.  • New modules cross review with the other developers of the team.  Environment: Graphic Progress, Character Progress. Education Bachelor's Skills J2EE (9 years), JAVA (10+ years), HIBERNATE (10+ years), SPRING (9 years), ORACLE (9 years) Additional Information SKILLS:  Languages Java Core, Java 5/6/7/8, JavaScript, jQuery, SQL, MySQL, PL/SQL  Internet Applications J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Web service, XML/XSLT, JMS, Spring  Web Technologies  J2EE, Struts, JSP/Servlets, Web Services, SOAP/REST, JavaScript, PHP, HTML, CSS, JQuery, HTML5/CSS3/JavaScript, JSON, Ajax, PHP, XML. Swagger    Web/Application Server WebLogic, WebSphere, Apache Tomcat, JBoss, Sun Application Server, GlassFish.  Enterprise Solutions WebSphere Process Server, etc  IDE Eclipse, NetBeans, STS, IntelliJ  Methodologies UML, SCRUM, KANBAN, Waterfall  Frameworks  Maven, GitHub/SVN, JUnit/Mockito, log4j, Spring, Spring MVC, Spring Security, Hibernate, JSF, HSQLDB, PrimeFaces Tapestry, JSF, Struts.    Distributed Architectures SOA/J2EE Web Services, EJB (3), JPA, JPQL, etc.  O-R Mapping tool Hibernate, Jooq  Scripting Languages JavaScript, AJAX, Shell Scripting, JQuery  Markup Languages HTML, DHTML, XML.  Databases Oracle-PL/SQL, SQL Server, DB2, MySQL  Operating Systems Windows X, MacOS  Web Servers WebLogic, IIS, Apache HTTP Server.  Version Control Tools GIT, CVS, SVN  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP, SOAP/WSDL, FTP, SMTP  Testing Tool JUnit, Ant  Logging Tool LOG4J, Rational, Toad/Erwin.  Software Microsoft Office, Squirrel SQL Client, SQL Server Management Studio, Eclipse, NetBeans, STS, GIT, Maven, Tortoise, Swagger