Android Developer Android <span class="hl">Developer</span> Android Developer - Mayo Clinic Rochester, MN ? Over 7+ years of experience in analysis, design, development, implementation and testing client, server and enterprise applications using Java and Android technologies.  ? Extensively worked in Android application development.  ? Integration of preloaded android apps into Android OS.  ? Good understanding in Android OS, interactive application development and memory management.  ? Proficient with common Android Framework API's (Location, Camera, Notifications, Maps).  ? Developed user interfaces with rich features.  ? Experience in implementing NFC libraries in application.  ? Designed GUI and interfaces with services for mobile applications.  ? Highly proficient in using Fragments, Activity workflow, Action Bar Navigation, Menu designs and view controls, and Loaders.  ? Experience in using Storage options in Android like Shared Preferences.  ? Designed GUI and interfaces with services for mobile applications, Asynchronous Programming in Android (such as Thread pool, Tasks and services). Implemented the monetization of apps, which has capabilities to do in-app purchases.  ? Extensively worked on mobile and web designs using Activities (android), HTML 5, Java Script, AJAX and XML.  ? Good understanding in Object Oriented Design (OOD), analysis (OOA), modeling (OOM) based on Unified Modeling Language (UML).  ? Experience with source code control management like subversion (SVN) and GIT.  ? Expert in writing client side validations using validation framework, Java Script.  ? Experience in web services using markup languages like JSON and REST.  ? Have got knowledge of Automation of web based apps for iOS, Android and PC browser based platforms  ? Excellent debugging and problem-solving skills with Eclipse, Net beans and Android Studio.  ? Experience in various methodologies like of SDLC like Agile development.  ? Extensive experience in requirement analysis, functional analysis, excellent conceptual and logical thinking.  ? Ability to grasp and master new technologies, excellent analytical and problem solving skills.  ? Able to take initiative; work independently and also as a team player. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Android Developer Mayo Clinic - Rochester, MN August 2016 to Present Link: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.mayoclinic.patient    The Mayo Clinic Patient app allows access to the latest news, publications, and health information from Mayo Clinic. Mayo Clinic patients also have access to their personal medical record, appointment schedule and other services using their Patient Online Services account. The app is an easy-to-use tool for navigating while at a Mayo Clinic campus. It also provides community information, including directions to local restaurants and entertainment.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the requirement gathering and designing of the application    ? Work closely with the web application development team to ensure proper system integration between mobile application and web application    ? Implemented navigation help using Android Locations    ? Used SQLite databases to cache the data received from the RESTful web services    ? Constructed HTTP requests, fetching server response and parsing feeds wherever required  Used REST services; implemented JSON response parsing    ? Implemented components using Google Maps API v.2 forward and reverse geo-location    ? Worked on the local data storage using SharedPreferences, SQLite databases and the file system    ? Handled XML data using efficient parsing techniques such as DOM parsing    ? Tested the application on various Android devices    ? Used Crashlytics while testing the application to verify the proper free-flow working of the application    ? Worked with Java Annotations, Multi-threading, Collections    ? Created testing unit with JUnit and Espresso; used Hamcrest matchers    ? Analyzed mobile applications code for re-engineering    Environment: Android SDK 4.4, Android Studio, JUnit, Espresso, JSON, REST Web Services, RPC, XML, Crashlytics, Agile. Android Developer Polycom Inc - Austin, TX September 2014 to July 2016 Link: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.polycom.cmad.mobile.android.phone    The Real Presence App for Android based embedded devices is the HD Video Conferencing Telepresence Systems, which has been ranked as the #1 Video Conferencing app. A user can use the application to make the phone calls and conference calls including video enabled conference and government security videoconference app.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in full life cycle of the application including prototype, design, and development and testing.  ? Developed different features for the application, such as: Conference Calls, Meeting Schedule, System Info,  ? Video Stoplight feature, Call Hold feature, Audio calls add-in feature for both embedded devices, Polycom Touch Control.  ? Supports Microsoft Lync and Conference recording can be started from Microsoft Lync Client.  ? Innovative video calls, leader in video conference calls.  ? By enabling calendar, your personal calendar and notification can be shown in the screen. This is linked with emails.  ? Developed applications (Native and Dalvik) on Android phones  ? Understanding of Client-server, Cloud computing service architecture and Internet Technologies (e.g., HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, XML/XSLT, JSON, HTTP, SSL, TCP/IP)  ? Refactored the code base to optimize start-up time and memory usage.  ? Integral in internationalizing of the app to support different languages.  ? Key resource for layout and UI work utilizing xml, Views, ListView, MenuItem, Activities, Fragments, Frame, Animations, Notifications, etc.  ? Simulating for prototype, write Design Document, document Feature Verification Test (FTV).  ? Worked on more than 30 projects to make a final product.    Environment:  Java, Android SDK (2.1 to 4.3), Eclipse, Wire Shark, Ant, Python, HTMLs, HTML5, CSS3, JSON, XML, Ajax, jQuery, SASS, AngularJS, Jira, KlockWorks, putty, Jenkins, Confluence, Silk Central. Mobile App Developer IOS AND ANDROID - Peoria, IL January 2013 to August 2014 Application: Entelligencer (IOS AND ANDROID)    It is a simple messaging application targeting corporate companies. Employs in corporate companies can post messages along with pictures or videos to group of employs in company so as to facilitate ease of communication and transparency of message passing.    Responsibilities:  ? Using PhoneGap to develop this application gave us the feasibility to code once and run it on many mobile platforms making only slight changes.  ? Third party plugins usage.  ? We integrated php support to make this PhoneGap application connect to external database.  ? Develops Business Intelligence reporting, dashboards and analysis.  ? Designs, develops, and unit tests standard and ad-hoc reports.  ? We followed agile technology in front-end development life cycle of application.  ? Moto of this application is to post messages by employees to their higher authorities to establish corporate networking.  ? We are trying reducing to filtering of message at different levels of authorities and taking the message directly to concern department.  ? This application has the intelligence to sense the messages and generate reports showing the patterns in messages.  ? We analyzed data patterns of user sent messages.  ? Performed clustering of data in data warehouse.  ? Conducts data investigations and assists the business partners with complex data analysis and ad-hoc queries.  ? Monitors queries and report behavior to assure performance expectations are met.    Environment:  HTML 5, PHP, PhoneGap, jQuery, MySQL, Octave, ETL, Data Warehouse, PL/SQL programming. Android Application Developer IGATE - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2011 to November 2012 This is the internal / enterprise application, which is used by the Cintas employer's. It is an uniform rental company, besides of the uniforms they also supply many office goods. SSR's who goes on the route trip uses this application to keep track of the activities they usually do on the route. This application consists of the whole week route details and all the customers details.    Responsibilities:  ? Designed and coded application components in an agile environment utilizing a test driven development approach.  ? Webservices and maintained project tasks and schedules.  ? Worked on the different phases of the development cycle, expanding the existing design, development of new features, testing and deployment.  ? Design screens using MVC pattern for the application with Appclerator.  ? Create and edit UI/UX for a Titanium Alloy application.  ? Working Experience with 3rd party APIs - from Google Maps APIs, to 3rd party vendor calls.  ? Experience with web services integration utilizing JSON and/or XML.  ? Expertise in using version control tools (e.g. Git)  ? Experience using RESTful APIs to integrate mobile applications to server side systems  ? Designed and developed the App screen navigation using Dialog boxes, ActionBar Navigation control and designed Menus based on the user context.  ? Built HTML, CSS and presentational JavaScript, user interface wireframes, and/or detailed written specifications.  ? Scaling to ensure the application responds as the business demand grows.  ? Optimizing and automating enterprise-level deployment practices. Java Developer Mobiware Inc - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2009 to May 2011 This project aims at automating the contemporary manual of designing a remote control. It is a web-enabled application that allows the access of client's information with defined access level restrictions to their employees and distributors. It provides search, process functionality for various categories of remote controls, and supports the design process of remotes. The search facility helps the user in identifying the required remote information along with download feature of the same.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed Java Mail program to send a system generated mail to all first time registered users.  ? Created user-friendly GUI interface and Web pages using HTML, JSP.  ? Developed different Servlet components.  ? Interacted with the Database using MySQL.  ? Involved in Database designing using ER Modeling and creating tables.  ? Extensively used JavaScript for client side validations    Environment:  Java 1.3, JDBC, UML, HTML, JavaScript, Apache Server, Java Mail, and UNIX. Education Bachelor of Computer Sciences in Computer Sciences Jawaharlal Nehru University Skills Android (4 years), HTML (7 years), Java (5 years), JavaScript (5 years), JSON (4 years), Android SDK 4.4, Android Studio, JUnit, Espresso, JSON, REST Web Services, RPC, XML, Crashlytics, Agile. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Technologies: Android 2.3-4.4, Java, C, J2EE (JSP 1.2/2.0,Servelets 2.2/2.3/2.4,  Web Services, JDBC 3.0, JavaScript 1.8.x, JUnit, PhoneGap, Samsung Touchwiz, Tizen SDK, Android SDK, Android framework.  Markup Languages: HTML 5, XML, XHTML, JSON.  Programming languages: C, C++, Java  Servers: Amazon web server, Web Logic8.1/9.2, Apache Tomcat 6.0.  Debugging Tools: Log cat, DDMS, J Unit.  RDBMS: Oracle 10g, SQLite, Mysql  IDE's: Android Studio, Eclipse, Net beans.  Scripting languages: PHP, Perl, JavaScript, JQuery  UML Tools: Microsoft Visio, Umlet, Smart Draw, Visual Paradigm  Operating Systems: Windows (2000/XP Professional, Windows 7, Windows 8), Ubuntu, Macintosh.  Version control system: SVN, Perforce, GitHub  Bug Tracking systems: JIRA, Redmine