CRM Salesforce Developer CRM Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span> CRM Salesforce Developer - Verizon Networkfleet San Diego, CA • Over 8 years of experience in Information Technology and 4+ years of experience in salesforce.com as a Developer using Force.com, Visual Force, and APEX.  • Experience working with Force.com IDE in design and development of Custom Application for Complex Business Processes in both Sales and Service Cloud Modules.  • Possess comprehensive understanding of CRM business processes like Campaign Management, Lead Management, Account Management, Case Management, Quote, Forecasting, and Call Center.  • Experience in Force.com Apex Classes, Apex triggers, Visual Force, Batch Apex, Integration, REST, SOAP based Web Services, Force.com API, SOQL and SOSL, Salesforce AppExchange and JAVA and C# on demand.  • Solid experience with Salesforce AppExchange Apps, configuration and user security permissions in compliance with organizational needs.  • Strong knowledge of Salesforce configuration, data migration, system integration and familiarity with Visualforce (Pages, Components, Controllers) MVC architecture and Apex (Classes, Controllers & Triggers).  • Experienced in cloud technology and on premise infrastructure integration for Salesforce.com.  • Used Cast Iron WebSphere in Integration and migration.  • Experience in implementing Apex Classes, Triggers, Batch Apex, Test Classes, Visual force pages, Web Service etc. to achieve complex business functionalities.  • Excellent experience in Salesforce.com configuration in creating the Custom Objects, various types of Custom fields, buttons, links, Record types, Page layouts, User Profiles, Workflows approvals and Validating Rules.  • Working experience with development tools like Force.com IDE, Force.com Explorer and Data Loader.  • Experience in working with Eclipse IDE with Force.com Plug-in environment for writing Business logic in Apex Programming Language.  • Extensive experience using Salesforce.com Administration and Creating Roles, Profiles, Page Layouts, Workflow Alerts and Actions, and Approval Workflows.  • Expertise in Object Oriented Programming involving Analysis and Design and Development of web based applications using Java technologies: HTML, DHTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript, and J2EE Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience CRM Salesforce Developer Verizon Networkfleet - San Diego, CA February 2017 to Present Responsibilities  • Performed detailed analysis of business and technical requirements and designed the solution by customizing various standard objects of Salesforce.com (SFDC).  • Designed, and developed the Custom objects, validation rules, Custom tabs, Components, Visualforce Pages to suit the needs of the application.  • Designed, developed and deployed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application  • Built apex classes implementing SOQL statements within Eclipse to manage interaction with the database.  • Worked on various salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Opportunities, Reports and Dashboards.  • Created and deployed several reports for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  • Created and Customized the Dashboards to the track usage for productivity and performance of business centers and their sales teams.  • Create complex workflows and Approval processes.  • Designed various types Email templates in HTML and VisualForcefor auto response to customers.  • Implemented Data segregation through Record Types and Field level security.  • Created Price books and also migrated the active Products from these Price books.  • Performed data migration into salesforce application using apex data loader through CSV files.  • Used SOQL & SOSL with consideration to Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Involved in UNIT testing and Integration testing.    Environment:Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visualforce (Pages, Component & Controllers), Salesforce.com Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, HTML, Java Script, Web Services, WSDL, Sandbox, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Oracle Field Service Cloud. Sr Salesforce Developer Exxon Mobil - Houston, TX August 2016 to January 2017 Responsibilities  • Gathered user and functional system requirements via workshops, interviews and workflow storyboards and Working with stakeholders and project teams to prioritize collected requirements.  • Developed Java Script methods for doing two actions on a single button click, to overcome the Salesforce limitations.  • Developed various Visualforce Pages, Apex Triggers to include extra functionality and wrote Apex Classes and Controller to provide functionality to the visual pages.  • Implemented the requirements on Salesforce.com platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse.  • Worked on various AppExchange products according to the needs of the organization.  • Worked on various Salesforce.com standard objects like Case Management, Accounts, Contacts, Content, Reports and Workspaces.  • Created many Email Templates and Mail Merge Templates and was involved in doing the mail merge for different standard and custom objects.  • Creating a sync of contacts, email alerts, events and tasks between Salesforce to Outlook and Outlook to Salesforce successfully.  • Developed Client side pagination process with all the details.  • Created Labels to set the predefined values for the client side pagination process.  • Developed Custom Validations to override the Salesforce default validation rules.  • Used Force.com developer toolkit including Apex Classes, Apex Triggers and Visualforce pages to develop custom business logic.  • Used C# in various Salesforce and Force.com requirements whenever needed.  • Complete bulk imports of data using Apex DataLoader.  • Deployed the code developed in the Dev Sandbox to the Test Sandbox and the Production sandbox.  • Involved in Unit Testing, for the customizations and developments done during the project.  • Interacted with testing and the development teams for the development and testing of the code.  • Resolve the Cases and support the team on urgent bases, implementation and working with real-time troubleshooting.  • Communicating regularly with the SFDC designated super users to support them in their role and provide information and training on new features and functionality.  Environment: Eclipse IDE, Salesforce.com, Force.com Sandbox, Import Wizard, Apex, XML, JavaScript, Controllers, Sharing Rules, Visualforce Pages, Workflows, Email Updates, .NET Framework,C#, Web Services API, Oracle EBS, Oracle on Demand, Oracle Fusion Middleware, SOA, Siebel. Sr Salesforce Developer TD Ameritrade - Omaha, NE October 2014 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Worked with the user group for requirement gathering throughout the planning and implementation.  • Implemented the requirements on Force.com platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse.  • Created new User Accounts and assigned Profiles as per their role in role hierarchy.  • Defined Org wide default to restrict access from users.  • Customized Page layouts for Standard/Custom objects and assigned Record Types.  • Created Data Validation rules and Formulas as per business requirement.  • Worked with various salesforce.com Standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Cases, Campaigns, Reports, and Dashboards.  • Created Workflow Rules to automate Tasks, Email Alerts, Field Updates, time-dependent actions and Outbound API Messages.  • Created Reports and Dashboards to track Opportunity pipeline/Stages for Management visibility.  • Designed, and developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes,extensions and ApexTriggersfor various functional needs in the application.  • Designed various Web Pages in VisualForce for capturing various customer enquiries and Implemented logic for migrating cases to different queues based on the type of customer enquiry.  • Created and used Email templates in HTML and VisualForce.  • Integrated the Web Services by generating the necessary stubs from the WSDL files for extracting the data from the home grown applications by using the home grown web services.  • Used SOQL & SOSL with consideration to Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Responsible for all the activities related to configuring Data Loader, uploading data in CSV files into salesforce.com, checking for the correctness of the data.  • Worked with Salesforce.com team to make application certified.  • Packaged and Deployed customizations from Sandbox to other environments using Force.com IDES.  • Help users with Chatter teams/Groups and follow application as well.  Environment: SaleForce.com platform, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Apex Language, Data Loader, HTML, Java Script, APPTUS, Eclipse IDE, Subversion. Sales force Developer/ Admin Cetera Financials - Saint Paul, MN January 2012 to September 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in group for requirement gathering throughout the planning and implementation.  • Involved in Salesforce.com Application Setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization.  • Worked with various salesforce.com objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, Cases, Solutions, Forecasts, Reports, and Dashboards.  • Developed and configured various Custom Reports and Report Folders for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  • Maintained data cleanliness and accuracy by adding custom validation rules, custom formulas, reports and dashboards.  • Developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Designed and developed VisualForce pages based on the business requirements  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Provided ongoing SalesForce.com maintenance and administration services including periodic data cleansing, custom objects, workflow.  • Interacted with the SalesForce.com premium tech support team on a regular basis.  Environment: SaleForce.com platform, Visual Force Pages, Apex Language, Data Loader, HTML, JavaScript, Sandbox data loading, Eclipse IDE,VSS. Salesforce.com Developer Xerox Corporation - Minneapolis, MN October 2011 to January 2012 Responsibilities:  • Followed agile methodology.  • Perform detailed analysis of business and technical requirements and designed the solution by customizing various standard objects of Salesforce.com (SFDC) and other Platform based technologies like Visual Force, Force.com API, and Web Services.  • Defined Lookup and master-detail relationships on the objects and created junction objects to establish connectivity among objects.  • Created Page layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on a record detail and edit pages.  • Worked on Validation Rules, Workflows and Approval Processes.  • Designed Custom Objects and developed and deployed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Developed a customer feedback and satisfaction process  • Participated in the bug review meetings, updated requirements document as per business user feedback and change in functionality of the application  • Integrated the Web Services for extracting the data from external systems, and used the Sandbox for testing to ensure minimum code coverage for the application to be migrated to production.  • Integration using Web Sphere Cast Iron and Informatica cloud for data migration into the cloud.  Environment: SaleForce.com platform, Visual Force Pages, Apex Language, Data Loader, Sandbox, HTML, JavaScript, Eclipse IDE,CVS. Java Developer Walgreens - Bengaluru, Karnataka July 2010 to August 2011 Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirement Analysis, documentation of high level and low-level design.  • Developed application using core java. J2ee and spring framework.  • Developed SOAP web services using Apache CXF and Axis2 framework and deployed on Tomcat.  • Developed JAX-WS web services and deployed on Web sphere Application Server.  • Migrated web service applications from Tomcat to Web sphere Application Server.  • Used Qpid, JMS for messaging and worked on exception handling.  • Worked on java security like encryption, decryption, and generation of signature.  • Used EJB Query Language for all database interactions.  • Involved in implementing static and dynamic Web mapping of business logic and technical requirements.  • Collaborated with business during requirement analysis and design discussions  • Prepared test data for various test scenarios.  • Worked on migration of light weight web applications from Web-logic to Tomcat  • Used XSL and DHTML to format the front-end pages.  • Used hibernate with HSQLDB.  • Developed Junits.  • Used ANT scripts to build java application.  • Created web projects with Maven.  • Involved in presentation of design to client.  • Bug fixing during the QA Cycle.  • Worked as offshore - onsite coordinator.  • Used SVN as version control system source code and other documents.  Environment: Core Java, J2EE, spring, Web services, SOAP, JAX-WS, CXF, AXIS2, JMS, JUNIT, ANT, Maven, XML, XSD, Eclipse, Spring Source Tool suite, SVN, Microsoft visual studio, Linux, Windows XP, Shell scripting, Tomcat, Web sphere, Hibernate, HSQLDB. Java Developer Barclays Capital Services Ltd - Bengaluru, Karnataka May 2009 to June 2010 Responsibilities:  • Written XML Document Type Definition (DTD) to get data from GPSIS in specific format.  • Modified current database design to accommodate required changes.  • Design/Develop personal measure module in IBSC to manage individual client's personal measures.  • Utilized existing STRUTS framework as well as written Action Dispatchers, JDBC Mappers, JSPs Custom Tags.  • Integrate module in current application and test in various environments like Test, Pre-Production, and Production.  • Add measure information popup to the current scorecard JSP.  • Created DIV layer in the JSP which consists of all measure details.  • Written JavaScript functions to show/hide/print popup.  • Modified existing CSS files to meet GPSIS display and print standards.  • Add job share feature to IBSC.  • Switch from own SQL/JDBC Mappers (Relational mapping) to Hibernate persistence classes (Object/Relational mapping), which subsequently improves performance. Used Hibernate 3.0 API.  • Used AJAX (Asynchronous JavaScript + XML) methodology to enhance current user hierarchy display.  • Involved in testing applications in different stages e.g. TEST, Preproduction, and Production.  • Involved in Critical Bug fixes and Enhancement of application.  • Used Subversion to implement version control System.  • Carry out rigorous project plans and promptly meet deadlines to fulfill customer requirements.  Environment: Java 1.4, J2EE , JEE, JSP, JavaScript, DB2, JMS, Web Logic 8.1, Apache Struts, PVCS, JUnit, Hibernate 3.0, AJAX, Lotus Notes, Windows XP, Novell Networks, Text pad, Microsoft Office 2003. Education Bachelor's Skills Apex (6 years), Eclipse (7 years), HTML (6 years), loader (6 years), Workflow (6 years), Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visualforce (Pages, Component & Controllers), Salesforce.com Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, HTML, Java Script, Web Services, WSDL, Sandbox, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Oracle Field Service Cloud. (8 years), Soql, Salesforce, COM, Visualforce, SFDC Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLSET    Salesforce Technologies  SFDC Certified Force.com Developer, Salesforce CRM, Salesforce SFA, Apex Language, Apex Classes/Controllers, Apex Triggers, SOQL, SOSL, Visual Force Pages / Components, S Controls, Apex Web Services, AJAX, Workflow & Approvals, Dashboards, Analytic Snapshots, Case Management Automation, Custom Objects.    Salesforce Tools  Eclipse, Force.com Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Force.com Explorer, Apex Data Loader, Force.com, Workbench, Force.com Platform (Sandbox and Production)    Other Programming Languages Java, JavaScript, HTML, XML, DHTML, C, C++ ,C#.  Databases MS SQL Server 2000/2005, PL/SQL, RDBMS, Oracle 8i/9i/10g, MS Access, and MySQL  Operating Systems Windows NT / 2000 / XP Pro / Vista, Windows Server 2000 / 2003 / 2008, Linux.