Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Full Stack Developer - Wells Fargo Des Moines, IA ? Experienced in front End technologies such asHTML5, CSS3, JQuery, JavaScript,ReactJS, NodeJS, AngularJS, ExtJS, Bootstrap, VBScript, Perl, AJAX, Adobe Flex, Action Script, JSON,XSD, XSTL, Tiles, Tag Libraries.  ? Over 8years of rich indigenous experience in designing, developing and testing of distributed applications, internet/intranet base database, J2EE and SOA compliant applications.  ? Experienced in Java Web-based, Desktop Based Developmentwith Concepts of, Object Oriented Design (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis (OOA), Object Oriented Programming (OOP) and its implementation.  ? Experienced in implementing client-server business applications using MVC, SOA architecture and MicroServices.  ? Experience in Agile/Scrum, Pair Programming, Test Driven Development (TDD) and Waterfall model.  ? Expertise in Core java concepts likeCollections, Generics, Multithreading, Serialization and Exception Handling.  ? As a Java Full stack SME has expertise in developing Enterprise Applications using Java and J2EE technologies Such as JSP, Servlets, EnterpriseJavaBeans, RESTfulWebServices, SOAPWebServices, JDBC, JMS, JAXB, SOA.  ? Experienced in Middleware persistence framework likeHibernate/JPA, JDBC, iBatisfor mapping Java POJO classes/Objects with database and using Hibernate Query Language (HQL).    ? Experienced in developing an enterprise applications by writing server side code with NodeJS and Express Framework, a database to store and retrieve data with MongoDB and front-end web pages designing with ReactJS.  ? Experienced in creating dashboards, reports using BackboneJS.  ? Experience in developing Mobile web applications using JQuery Mobile and phonegap for Smartphones & Tablets.  ? Experience in working with Service Oriented Architecture, which includes Universal Description and Discovery Integration (UDDI) lookups and Web Services Description Language (WSDL) using SOAP protocol.  ? Expertise in XML technologies such as DTD/Schemas, DOM, SAX and XSLT.  ? Extensively used different Tag Libraries like JSF Tags, Struts Tags, JSTL, Spring Tags, Display Tag, XML/XSD.  ? Experienced in frameworks: Spring MVC, Jakarta struts framework, JSF, spring and Hibernate.  ? Strong experience in Spring Framework including SpringCore/IOC, SpringSecurity and implement the authentication, authorization and access-control features by using SpringSecurity.  ? Experienced in Distributed Transaction Management system with Spring JTA Based on Atomikos.  ? Experienced in Working with Spring JDBC Template, JMS Template, EMS, and JavaBeans.  ? Developed applications using latest technologies like EJB3.0, Spring2.x/3.x/4.x, Hibernate3.2/4.x, and REST based Web services (axis2.0, JAX WS 2.0), Rule Engines (Drools4.1, ILOG), XML API and tools.  ? Extensive experience in using NPM, BOWER, Grunt and Gulp for build process.  ? Proficient in taking care of web and application servers in making Domain, configuring connection pool, JMS, Deploying applications on WebLogic, WebSphere, ApacheTomcat, Glassfish and JBoss.  ? Experienced in developing UNIXshell scripts for batch processing.  ? Experienced in developing modern applicationsusingMEAN Stack- MongoDB, ExpressJS, AngularJS and NodeJS.  ? Experienced on ELK Stack (Elastic Search, Logstash and Kibana).  ? Experienced in working with multiple databases like Oracle 10g/11g, SQL Server, MySQL, DB2, NOSQL DB.  ? Worked on Mule soft studio with Sound knowledge on Enterprise Service Bus.  ? Experienced in performing unit testing using JUnitframework with Mockito and Easymock, integration and deployment of applications using tools such as ANT and Maven& debugging through log4j.  ? Experienced in creating and updating Java test scripts using Selenium IDE and Selenium Web-driver.  ? Experience in creating test suites using Jasmine, Karma and worked on tools NPM, Bower, Gruntand Testem.  ? Involved in BPM (business process management) tools like JBPM and Adobe LiveCycle.  ? Experience in using various AWS components like EC2 for virtual servers, S3 and Glacier for storing objects, EBS, CloudFront, Elasticcache, IAM, CloudWatch, CloudFormation and DynamoDB.  ? Experience in Microsoft Azure Cloud Computing development and support.  ? Strong Knowledge in scripting technologies like Python, Scala, Shell, GroovyonGrails and Perl.  ? Expertise in design and development of various web applications using technologies Scala, Play framework.  ? Experienced in Development, testing and deployment of enterprise applications on Windows&UNIX platforms using IDE's such as Eclipse, Rational Application Developer, NetBeans,Spring Tool Suite (STS),IntelliJ 14.x/15.x.  ? Experience in different version controlling/tracking systems Subversion, CVS,SVN,GITand Rational Clear Case.  ? Experienced in Splunk Log Management Creating dashboards,monitoring,reporting, Email Notification to Users for threshold limit. Experience working in Kafka and Camel, with in-depth understanding of Scala.  ? Experience with messaging frameworks (ActiveMQ, RabbitMQ, Kafka).  ? Good knowledge of SAP-MM Module & MDM Principles, Architecture. Work Experience Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Wells Fargo - Des Moines, IA January 2016 to Present Description: Wells Fargo is a multinational banking and financial services holding company, which provides banking,  mortgage, credit cards, insurance and commercial financial services. Involved in development of an intranet based loan servicing application. The Application automates the loan servicing application. The application is also integrated into automatic pay system so as to deduct loan payments directly from the employee's monthly paycheck. The Application has sophisticated alerts and monitoring components as well.    Responsibilities:  • Interacted with the business analysts to gather the requirements, FSD for the requirements.  • Actively involved in Analysis, Design, Development, System Testing and User Acceptance Testing. Used Agile approaches, Including Test-Driven Development (TDD) and Scrum.  • Developed the multiple enterprise applications, which are developed using SpringMVCframework, Hibernateframework, Primefaces, RESTFul web services.  • Designed and developed UI using spring view component HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, AngularJS and Vue.js.  • Built custom UI widgets, directives, filters and Application logic using AngularJSMVC Architecture.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 2.0.  • Used Vuex to work with Vue.js and refactored the Vue Component structure to gain front-end state management.  • Vue.js was used to fetch data from server using axios, prepare and transform data to display in the forms, validate user-entered data and then post data.  • Used Spring and Hibernate for implementing IOC, AOP and ORM for back end tiers.  • Implemented Hibernate Template to great extent making use of HQL, Named Parameters, Named Queries and interfaces such as Expression, Query and Criteria.  • Used Multithreading and Concurrency and implemented threads while preparing and generating mails.  • Developed Hibernate with SpringIntegration as the data abstraction to interact with the database of MongoDB.  • Used Hibernate, object/relational-mapping (ORM) solutionand technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with SQL-based schema.  • Used a Microservice architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through REST and Apache Kafka.  • Developed Microservices using SpringBoot, NetflixOSS, SpringCloud and deploying to AWSCloud.  • Deployed Spring Boot based microservices Docker container using Amazon EC2 container services.  • Worked on Spring Quartz functionality for scheduling tasks such as generating monthly reports for customers.  • Implemented Pre Authentication and database security with Site Minder and spring security.  • Created Stacks using Amazon Cloud Formation templates to launch AWS Infrastructure and resources. Used AWS Lambda to run the code in the AWS.  • Building search feature based on open source tool ElasticSearch. Implemented system logging solution using Elastic Search, Kibana and Logstash.  • Used Adobe flex framework for building and maintaining applications that deploy on all major device platforms.  • CreatedRESTful web services using SpringRESTfulAPI,sending JSONdatabetween Frontend, middletier Controller.  • Created proof of concept Data As A Service (DaaS) based RESTful (Jersey) web service which is connected to a MongoDB based data store running on Tomcat 8.  • Used J2EE design patterns like Value Object Pattern, Service locator, Session facade, Singleton, Factory and DAO.  • Involved in writing Thread Safe blocks for multithread access to make valid transactions.  • Deployed TDD through Unit, Integration and Performance Test Cases using Junit and Selenium. Also, set up the Vue.js unit testing with Karma and Jasmine. Used SOAPUI for testing web services.  • Process Avro Data to Store in Parquet Files, Stored data toHDFS for analysis, Created HIVE tables on top of them.  • Performed deployment of applications on WebSphere Application Server Application Server.  • Responsible for Configuring Kafka Consumer and Producer metrics to visualize the Kafka System performance.  • Designed and developed a project that reads messages from Kafka topic and applied conversation from JSON to pipe delimited String data format to be saved in OracleDB and NoSQLDB.  • Developed database adapter, web services adapter, messaging adapter and custom workflow for non-oracle system using Camel and Implemented Apache Camel routes using Camel-Spring XML and Camel-Spring processor beans.  • Used Scala for coding the components in Play and Akka.  • Involved in developing and modifying the credit card, customer loan business rules in ILog JRules.  • Conducted Performance tuning including JVM tuning, JMS to the maximum throughput form Application server.  • Used Continuous delivery/ Continuous Integration tools Docker, Jenkins to deploy this application to AWS and used GIT for version control of code for incremental development.  • Experienced in Splunk development - Splunk search language, Splunk Web Framework, simple xml, alerts configuration, report building, custom dashboard building and data modeling.  • Worked on Splunk DB Connect APP to load the data into Splunk from Oracle Database.  Environment: Java 8.0, Spring 4, Hibernate 4.2, Spring batch, Spring security, Spring Boot, JPA, JavaScript, AngularJS, Vue.js, HTML5, CSS3, WebSphere Application Server 8.5, Eclipse, Oracle 11g, MongoDB, ILOG, Apache Camel, log4j, Junit,TestNG, Selenium, EasyMock, XML, Web Services, SOAP UI, Kafka, Adobe Flex,Scala, DevOps, AWS, Hive, HDFS, Splunk. Sr. Java Full Stack Developer BCBS - Detroit, MI January 2014 to December 2015 Description: BCBS is the health insurance and health provider company. BCBS provides individual and family plans, Dental Plans, Medicare, Medicare & State Plans, Group Plans and other plans. This Project had division of groups, which was Provider and Clinical Data, IAAS (Information as a Service), End to End Enrollment, Product & Member Benefits and Tracking Summary.    Responsibilities:  • As a Java developer involved in back-end and front-end developing team. Took part in developing, maintaining, reviewing and supporting quality code and services.  • Followed Agile Software Development Methodology and Test-Driven Development (TDD) to build the application iteratively and incrementally.  • Enhanced and optimized the functionality of Web UI using RichFaces, JSF, AJAX, CSS, HTML and JavaScript.  • Fetched JSON data within Orchestration Layer with SpringBootApplication and displaying it in UI using ReactJS.  • Developed various screens for frontend using ReactJS, Used predefined components from NPM and Redux library.  • Software is built as a web app on NodeJS with BackboneJS, ReactJS, CSS is compiled with LESS and HTML template engine in Jade.  • Implemented various features of spring framework such as Dependency Injection, IOC, Annotations and Spring integration with Hibernate.  • Implemented application architecture of the System is based on Spring MVC and J2EE specifications.  • Experienced in Security-System development for Web Applications. Involved and developed all phases of security implementation using spring security system against modes of authentications: LDAP authentication, Database authentication and Pre-Authentication.  • Integrated application with Spring Security for form based authentication and authorization by used spring security JSP tags to provide UI level spring security.  • Worked on SpringQuartz functionality for scheduling tasks such as generating monthly reports for customers and sending those mails about different policies.  • All the functionality is implemented using Spring IO / Spring Boot, Thymeleaf and Hibernate ORM.  • Implemented Java EE components using Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring transactions and Spring security modules.  • Implementing or exposing the Micro services to base onRESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Kubernetes were used as the best ecosystem to deploy and manage Micro services.  • Developed Applications using Rule Engines, Drools 4.x,and ILOG corresponding to validate the business User Roles.  • Used Hive QL, Map Reduce, Cassandra bulk loads, Java Web Services, UNIX Shell Scripts, Active MQ's.  • Implemented a distributed messaging queue to integrate with Cassandra using ApacheKafka and Zookeeper.  • Implemented the application using design patterns such as Session Facade, Business Delegate, Bean Factory, Singleton, Data Access Object, and Service Locator.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data. Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users.  • Initially we have used NodeJS/ExpressJS to mock REST services and built the UI app using that mocked backend. Later we integrated with the real backend system and coordinated with server-side development team.  • Used NodeJS to run Grunt tasks and build properly the project(compile, minify, Concat etc.) and implement modules into NodeJS to integrate with designs and requirements. Used Grunt, Bower, Express from NodeJS.  • Used JUnit for unit testing and log4j for logging. Developed test cases for Front EndusingJasmine and Karma.  • Used Rabbit MQqueues for implementation of multi-threaded synchronization processes and used JMS queues for consumption requests.  • Used PL/SQL stored procedures for applications that needed to execute as part of a scheduling mechanisms.  • Handled Java MultiThreading part in back-end, one thread will be running for each user, which serves that user.  • Defined strategic initiatives on Continuous Integration & Delivery (CI/CD) model with Test-driven development, Extreme programming (XP), and build automation, in an AGILE development environment to help, respond quickly to business needs and to ship world class Quality products.  • Utilized Hibernate for Object/Relational Mapping (ORM) purposes for persistence onto the Oracle database.  • Involved in PL/SQL changes whenever needed in the application and used TOAD as Oracle client to access tables, Packages, Jobs and stored procedures.  • Integration of automation batch run job with Jenkins. Worked with Jenkins CI tool and Build Tool Ant.  • Involved in JAD sessions to gather requirements from the end clients.  • Used GIT as version management, JIRA for defect management system.    Environment: Java 7.0, Spring 3, Hibernate 4.2, Spring batch, Spring quartz, Spring security, Spring Jta, Spring Boot,Python, Kubernetes,JPA, JavaScripts, ReactJS, BackboneJS, NodeJS, HTML5.0, CSS3, JMS, Rabbit MQ, ILOG, JAXP (SAX & DOM), JBoss, Eclipse, Oracle 11g, Cassandra, Kafka, RESTful, log4j, JUnit, XML, Web Services,GIT. Java Full Stack Developer Priceline Group - Norwalk, CT June 2012 to December 2013 Description:Priceline is an American based ecommerce website which provides discount rates for the different travel related purchases and services. Priceline is not the direct supplier but this facilitates the provision of the travel services to the customers. The Priceline group consists of different brands in different countries with different services that provide flight tickets, car rentals, hotel rooms and also cruises. Priceline operates in more than 200 countries having different brand names.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various SDLC phases like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development with both iterative (Agile,Water fall).  • Interacted with Managers &Business usersfor performance issues, discussed about keyAspects based on requirements and its relational mappingto the application with users.  • Collaborated on responsive front-end development using AngularJS, NodeJS, JavaScript and CoffeeScript with DevOps development principles.  • Develop various screens for the front end using AngularJS and used various predefined components from NPM.  • Developed a dashboard based on Ajax calls with Business Customers Count, Flags, Real-time graphs for Analytical Reporting using NodeJS.  • Extensively worked on developing UI components using AngularJS and JSON to interact Restful web services.  • Involved in Migrating the application deployment procedures, Googles Version Controlfor development with GAE google app Engine,UnFuddle(git/svn) as defect management system.  • Used GAE version control for the Day to Day development activities while migrating.  • Worked on integrating GWT (google web tool kit) for generating the JavaScript files for reporting the high frequency of usages of functionality in mini-pie chart.  • Developed Application using Spring MVC 3 widely with annotations, Dependencyinjection,IOC, integrated with the Struts 3 framework with views based on JSP.  • Used various Core Java concepts such as MultiThreading, ExceptionHandling, CollectionAPIs to implement various features and enhancements.  • Used MultiThreading and concurrency and implemented threads while preparing and generating mails.  • Worked extensively on Core Java, low latency side using Java Concurrency on the back-end of the application.  • Developed critical components of the application including Spring forms, Spring controllers, JSP views, and business logic and data logic components that include Hibernate Entities, Spring-Hibernate DAO and Spring models following MVC architecture.  • Developed the application using industry standard design patterns like Singleton, Business Delegate, MVC, and Factory Pattern etc. for re-usability.  • Developed datatables using Ace components,implemented Sorting, Filtering and Pagination functionalities to it.  • Developed re-usable utility classes in core java for validation that are used across all modules.  • Implemented app using design patterns - Session Facade, Business Delegate, Adaptor, BeanFactory and Singleton.  • Utilized MEAN stack, REST design pattern, MVC framework and SPA framework based on Node JS.  • Used MVC architecture of ExtJS Framework to simplify the code complexity and increase clean code.  • Transaction management is done by JTA API specification by implementing them.  • Developed an API to write XML documents from a database. Utilized XML and XSL Transformation for dynamic web-content and database connectivity.  • Implemented NoSQL persistence pattern for some data within app to increase performance by indexing.  • Implemented Map-reduce functionality in MongoDB to maintain customer order tracking.  • Composed and executed MongoDB scripts to insert and update NoSQL database, automating data changes and reporting. Implemented CRUD operations with MongoDB (NoSQL) and manage all the details of Customer.  • Worked on Drools Rule Engines with corresponding to validate the business User Roles.  • Used Apache Maven for project management and building the application.  • Developed Junits using Mockito and SpringJunitRunnerframework.  • Involved in Web Services Testing using SoapUI to create and execute automated functional, regression, compliance, and load tests.  • Provided JUnit support for the application for debugging the system and Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Used version control repository SVN (Subversion by apache) and JIRA for issue tracking.  • Used Maven as a build tool and retrieved all the dependencies required for the application.  • Involved in fixing bugs the bugs or defects in the application.    Environment: Core Java, Spring MVC 3, Spring integration Components, Spring JDBC, Spring Rest,Spring Dependency Injection, Struts 3, JMS, JIRA, AngularJS, NodeJS, ExtJS,JQuery,JQuery Mobile, Javascript, Html, CSS,Apache Tomcat 7.0, Restful, Eclipse, MongoDB, Maven, Drools, Mockito,SpringJunit, SVN. Java Developer AXA Financials - New York, NY June 2011 to May 2012 Description:Financial planner helps the financial advisors for advising customers on Retirement, Insurance, Education, Tax, Estate and Mortgage planning. It gives the monetary benefits at each period and projection till the end of period. It also helps the customers to apply online for insurance claims and online purchase of insurance plans. Online payment system for insurance premiums and Retirement plans are integrated with the system. The system has the facility to give insurance and investment plans and offers quotes based on the information provided by the customer.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various SDLC phases like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development and the project was developed using Agile based SCRUM Methodology.  • Successfully executing offshore modeling by effective and on time knowledge sharing with offshore project groups through weekly team meetings and daily status update calls.  • Implemented Struts Framework and Hibernate in the new version of the Application.  • Involved in coding for the presentation layer using Struts and JavaScript.  • Developed Action classes, Dyna Action Forms and used Validation framework.  • Used EJB Stateless/Stateful session beans to implement business logic, session handling, and transaction and deployed Enterprise Java Beans both Session and Entity on WebSphere Application Server.  • Implement modules into NodeJS to integrate with designs and requirements.  • Developed real time tracking of class schedules using NodeJS (socket.io, Express JS framework).  • Used Microsoft Azure to provide the cloud services for the application developed.  • Developed web services component API's for inter application communication and worked on the cloud based web services to connect to Azure services.  • Taken care of java MultiThreading in common java classes/library.  • Extensively used Javascripts to enforce client side validations and also used JQuery for Ajax processing.  • Involved in development of various web services using IBM WebSphere to interact with other Applications.  • Involved in unit testing, troubleshooting and debugging. Modifying existing programs with enhancements.  • Developed the UNIX shell scripts to automate jobs.  • Developed Entity Beans as Bean Managed Persistence Entity Beans and used JDBC to connect to DB2.  • Worked on Linux environment for deploying the application, running scripts for jobs.    Environment: Jakarta Struts Framework 2.0, Core Java, Hibernate 3.0,EJB, Web Services, CSS, NodeJS,Eclipse, CVS, WebSphere Application Server 6.5, Azure, JUnit, UNIX, JavaScript, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JQuery, DB2. Java Developer Provident Financial Services Inc - Jersey City, NJ January 2010 to May 2011 Description:The Provident Bank emphasizes personal service and customer convenience in attending to the financial needs of businesses, individuals and families in 11 counties in northern and central New Jersey. The bank offers a broad array of deposit, loan, and investment products as well as trust, fiduciary and wealth management services. Provident Financial Services Inc Services fulfilling the needs of all categories. The services provided by Bank, include bank accounts and loans for all needs. It provides complete information regarding various schemes of the bank in this site. In addition to that site allows doing online banking transactions. Members can view their account details and able to do transactions on the fly.    Responsibilities:  • Project modeled using MVC (Model-View-Controller Architecture) framework.  • Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection and integrated with the Struts and Hibernate.  • Developed the Web Tier of the application using Jakarta Struts Framework.  • Developed the application using Java, JSP, Servlets and Oracle 9i.  • Developed a stand-alone JAX-WS client to invoke the available web services. It involved creating auto-generated classes from WSDL using JAX-B implementation in IBM RAD.  • Wrote GWT code to create presentation layer using GWT widgets and event handlers.  • Used Cucumber to reveal and document, drive development of behavior in a large legacy code base.  • Added Ajax functionality to Java Server Faces using Ajax4 JSF framework.  • Used JMS Point-to-Point queuing model and developed Message Driven beans to consume messages from JMS.  • Used PL/SQL stored procedures for applications that needed to execute as part of scheduling.  • Designing/Developing J2EE applications/POCs using Java/J2EE with DROOLS, AspectJ on BEA Weblogic server.  • Customized RESTful Web Service using Spring RESTful API, sending JSON and XML format data packets between front-end and middle-tier controller.  • Developed a Servlet, which was tested on Apache Tomcat, Jboss and Weblogic.  • Developed Stored Procedures, triggered stored procedures using Hibernate in secondary project, involved in developing Programmatic transactions using Hibernate.  • Designed, developed, and deployed EJB components (Session and Message Driven beans).  • Expertise in developing integration services in SOA by offering Web Services (based on XML) on SOAP Layer.  • Involved in design and developing web services using SOAP, XML, WSDL, XML Schemas, JAXP and XSL.  • Used Rational Rose for UML diagrams.    Environment: Core Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, XML, XSLT, EJB, JDBC, JBuilder 8.0, JBoss, Swing, JavaScript, JMS, HTML, CSS, MySQL Server, CVS. Jr. Java Developer Triumph Systems and Solutions Pvt. Ltd - Mumbai, Maharashtra June 2008 to October 2009 Description:Medical billing system is developed using java for medical equipment store. This is advanced billing system which includes all billing functionalities. It supports functions to accept various payment types such as cash, debit card, credit card, PayPal, personal checks etc. system consist of two types of account Administrator and user. All product information and details are loaded into the system. The system also saves payers details and purchase information.    Responsibilities:  • Gathering the requirements from the users, application analysis and making UML diagrams.  • Involved in preparation of Detailed Design Documents.  • Developed Servlet and JSP screens for client view by embedding the Struts framework.  • Developed Action classes, Action Form and worked on switch Actions and Dispatch Actions.  • Worked in Struts Validation framework and involved in customizing Rules per business requirements.  • Developed Custom Tag libraries for the client view.  • Implemented Multithreading logic using Java Concurrency APIs for parallel processing of service requests.  • Involved in the development of client view custom components using JavaScripts, HTML and DHTML.  • Developed Java classes, which generate reports for the transactions.  • Wrote stored procedures and JDBC routines to update the ORACLE tables depend on the information.  • Involved in the bug fixing and Change requests in the life cycle of the entire application.  • Involved in Unittesting, IntegrationTesting and Maintenance stage.  • Developed/Modified the SQL, Stored Procedure and Triggers.  • Code Review and Code Level PerformanceTuning to the code.    Environment: Servlets 2.5, JSP 2.1, Struts, JDBC, JavaScript, HTML, PL/SQL, SVN, JDBC, WebLogic 7.0, Oracle. Education Bachelor's Skills Java (9 years), JMS (6 years), Oracle (6 years), web services. (7 years), XML (6 years), Java 8.0, Spring 4, Hibernate 4.2, Spring batch, Spring security, Spring Boot, JPA, JavaScript, AngularJS, Vue.js, HTML5, CSS3, WebSphere Application Server 8.5, Eclipse, Oracle 11g, MongoDB, ILOG, Apache Camel, log4j, Junit,TestNG, Selenium, EasyMock, XML, Web Services, SOAP UI, Kafka, Adobe Flex,Scala, DevOps, AWS, Hive, HDFS, Splunk. Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages Java 8.0/7.0/6.0/5.0, Java/J2EE, C, C++, Python, JDBC, DTD, UML, Design Patterns, Shell Scripts, Scala, SQL and PL/SQL  Frameworks Spring 4.x/3.x/2.x, Hibernate 4.0/3.0, Struts 1.x/2.0, Django.  Web Technologies  HTML/XHTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Servlets, JSPs, EJB, JNDI, JMS, XML, XSD, JSF, JQuery, Ajax, AngularJS, NodeJS, ReactJS, BackboneJS,Vue.js, ExtJS,Bootstrap, Grunt, Gulp.    j Apache Tomcat 5.x/6.x/7.x/8.x, IBM WebSphere, BEA Web Logic 9.x/10.x/12.x, J-Boss 6.x/7.x, GlassFish, JMS, Apache Kafka.  Cloud Environments  Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon SimpleDB, Amazon RDS, Amazon Elastic Load Balancing, AWS Lambda, Amazon SQS, Amazon Identity and Access Management, AWS Cloud Watch, Amazon EBS, Amazon Cloud Front, Azure, Netflix Eureka, Kubernetes.    IDE's Eclipse, NetBeans, STS2.x/3.x,IBM -WSAD, RAD and Rational Rose, IntelliJ 14.x/15.x  Database Oracle 11i/11g/10g/9i/8i, SQL Server, MySQL, Sybase 12.5, DB2, MongoDB and Cassandra  Web Services AXIS, SOAP, RESTful,JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, WSDL, JAX-P, JAX-B.  Version Control JIRA, CVS, SVN, GitHub, Subversion and Clear Case  Build Tool / plugin ANT, Log4j and Maven 3.x, Hudson 3.x, Jenkins 2.x, Drools.  Testing Frameworks Junit, SOAP UI, Selenium, Jasmine, Karma, Protractor.    Operating Systems Windows, Unix, Linux and MAC.