Senior Software Developer/Architect Senior Software <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Architect Senior Software Developer/Architect - CVS Chicago, IL • More than 12 years and 6 Months of IT experience with Randstad Ltd,Tata Consultancy Services and Infosys Limited on Design, Development and Coordination in Projects related to Java/J2EE technologies.  • 3 years of experience in System Design and Architecture  • Experience extensively on Java, J2EE, JSF, JSP, Servlet, JDBC, JAVASCRIPT, XML, SOAP/RESTful, SQL, Groovy and Grails framework, Web services, Unix, PHP and Retail & Banking and Capital Marketing Domain.  • Have worked in both Agile and Waterfall projects.  • Experience in implementation knowledge of JAVA, J2EE, JSF, Spring and DB2.  • Experienced in several J2EE software development frameworks and specifications - JSF, Spring, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, DESIGN PATTERNS, IBATIS, JUNIT, and Web Service.  • Experience in DevOps Atlassian tools like GIT, Bamboo, Stash, Jira, Artifactory,Jenkins.  • Used Spring MVC to develop multitier web application presentation layer components.  • Used Spring Beans to encapsulate business logic and Implemented Application MVC Architecture using Spring MVC framework.  • Proficient in developing web applications and server-side development using Servlets, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Spring MVC, JSF, JavaScript, JQuery, JDBC, XML and Log4j.  • Designed and developed Presentation Layer using MVC framework, JSP, HTML, XML and JavaScript & CSS.  • Experience in JSF, Spring and iBatis integration.  • Experience in Kibana log monitoring and troubleshooting.  • Experience in Groovy Scripting and Grails ORM.  • Experience in web-service testing using Swagger, Postman, SOAP-UI.  • Good Experience in MySQL administration and Apache Server administration.  • Good Knowledge of CI&CD tools like GIT, Stash and Bamboo  • Experience in using Oracle 11g and IBM DB2 database.  • Hands on experience front end Environment: like JSP, JQuery Ajax Frameworks.  • Used Junit/Mockito for testing the applications.  • Contributed greatly to increases in code quality and productivity through the Test/Behavior Driven Development, Refactoring, and Agile Estimation and Planning.  • Experience to develop the web services (SOAP/RESTful).  • Experience in Shell scripting in Unix Operating Systems.  • Experience on using version and build applications/tools like SVN, CVS, Git, Mercurial, Stash, ANT and Maven.  • Solving skills by delivering quality solutions to complex problems within a limited time span.  • Experience in application development and deployment using servers such as IBM WebSphere 6.0, Apache Tomcat 8.0.  • Experience using source configuration management tools (SCM) such as CVS, SVN and Git.  • Experience in working with UNIX, Linux and Windows.  • Self-motivated with natural leadership traits, excellent communication skills and a good team player. Work Experience Senior Software Developer/Architect CVS - Chicago, IL January 2018 to Present Project Summary:  Specialty-Rx is web based Enterprise Application which migrates the business features and functionalities of existing Oracle based SPARCS application .The various features being migrated to the new distributed web application are - Patient enrollment in the system, maintaining patient demographics, patient contact preferences like Patient online and digital messaging preferences, Patient Notes, Patient Clinical information, Patient Address information, Patient drug details and information related to prescription, Prescription management etc. The application is built using JAVA/J2EE, Spring, Hibernate and Spring boot microservices framework.    Responsibilities:  As Senior Software Developer/Micro-services Developer my responsibility involved:  • Understanding requirements, Designing and developing microservices for Task-API, Patient-API, Patient Notes API, Intake and Drug API projects  • Creating RESTful service end points.  • Unit testing using JUnit, Mockito and Swagger UI  • Integration testing from application UI  • Conducting demos and review sessions  • Debugging and Troubleshooting, Defect fixing and working on Change Requests.  • Maintaining code quality and ensuring expected performance standards are met    Environment: Java 8, micro services, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Junit/Mockito, Swagger, GIT, Spring Tool Suite,Jenkins,Kibana Technology Lead Walgreens Boots Alliance - Chicago, IL October 2015 to January 2018 Chicago IL, USA Oct 2015 - Jan 2018  Project: Corporate Functions -Field Services and Service Desk Applications  Role: Technology Lead    Project Summary:  The purpose of this project is to enhance and support various groups of Corporate Functions Applications in Corporate Division. The groups of applications are Service desk, Field Services and Strategic Implementation.  Customer has been focusing on formulating a strong Helpdesk support and corporate functions strategy. The various applications such as Corpfix ,Fixit, CurrentProblems, FormGen, Docugen, SMART etc. provide Corporate users easy resolution to their problems and Field service technicians flexibility to manage their day to day activity like timecard, staff training and documentation, repair ticket tracking, inventory tracking ordering and shipping.    Responsibilities:  As Technology Lead my responsibility involved:  • Design common interface to interact with remedy web services.  • Create the Java JAX-RS micro services.  • Implement Atlassian devOps tools like Jira, Git, Bamboo, Stash, Sonar, PMD and Check style to ensure code quality and test coverage.  • Application Deployment in the production environment.  • Designed and developed the micro service's application framework.  • Implement Test Driven Development using Junit and PHPUnit.  • Involve in production deployment plan.  • Integrate the micro services to the front-end UI.  • Act as onsite coordinator for the offshore team.    Environment: Java 8, micro services, Junit, Bamboo, UNIX, Apache Server Tech Lead Walgreens Boots Alliance - Chicago, IL March 2015 to September 2015 Chicago IL, USA March 2015 - Sep 2015  Project: POS Online-Store Configuration tool, Data mining reports  Role: Tech Lead    Project Summary:  There are multiple enhancements in POS online like Store Configuration tools for BIN management, EPS data mining reports, Drug Authorization etc.  • BIN management for payment authorization at POS  • Viewing various reports related to EPS.    Responsibilities:  As Technology Lead my responsibility involved  • Designed and Developed the JSPs and associated front end Screens.  • Written the all methods unit testing through Junit Test cases.  • Done an Integration End to End testing  • Involve in production deployment plan.  • Used Restful web services for interaction of the tool with different application  • Understood the business requirements and designed all the business processes in the most efficient way to meet the business requirements and also to improve the performance of the system.  • Participate in capturing of Technical Requirements, High Level Design and Detail Design.  • Provided trainings to users.  • Act as onsite coordinator for the offshore team.    Environment: Java 6, micro services, UNIX, JUnit Technology Lead Sears Holdings Corporation Limited - Chicago, IL November 2014 to January 2015 Chicago IL, USA Nov 2014- Jan 2015  Project: Home delivery pricing BU flexibility (HDP)  Role: Technology Lead    Project Summary: - This project allows business to add offset price to delivery price based on line of business and division-item. This gives flexibility to have different delivery price for same item across different business unit and also at an item level.    Following features were added:  • Div-item offset price  • BU offset price  • Upload delivery pricing  • Upload region and zip mapping    Responsibilities:  As Technology Lead my responsibility involved  • Request Analysis for Team    • Integrated the java back services with Data Layer.    • Used the light weight container of the Spring Frame work to provide architectural flexibility for inversion of controller (IOC).    • Conducting UAT demo.  • Testing & Bug Fixing  • Designed the existing RDBMS schema.  ? Designed the application framework for java back end services.  • Created the Restful services.  • Deployed the Junit Test cases for all services.  • Development and Implementation of Code including Database Changes.    Environment: Java 8, Spring MVC, Spring, micro services, Junit, Groovy and Grails, Gorm, DB2 Technology Lead Sears Holdings Corporation Limited - Chicago, IL March 2014 to November 2014 Project Summary: - The SST Automation was meant to minimize service requests from business users in Sears Home Services and minimize delays in various workflows to achieve faster response times and reduction of number of requests.  SST application allows the users to  • Create and Manage/Modify single service requests  • Modify bulk service request  • Upload various categories of requests.  • Track workflow    Responsibilities:  As Technology Lead my responsibility involved  • Request Analysis for Team    • Developing micro-services using JAX-RS.    • Conducting UAT demo.  • Testing & Bug Fixing  • Creating automated deployment scripts using Ant.  • Designed the existing RDBMS schema.  ? Designed the application framework for java back end services.  • Created the Restful services.  • Deployed the Junit Test cases for all services.  • Development and Implementation of Code including Database Changes.    Environment: Java 8, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, micro services, Junit, Groovy and Grails, Gorm, DB2. Technology Lead Sears Holdings Corporation Limited - Chicago, IL November 2013 to February 2014 Project Summary: - The Cadence Markdown items are the items that are either returned at POS or identified by the store associate as damaged, defective, discontinued, "L" status, closed date or expired. The disposition process of all these items come under Cadence Markdown application.  Cadence Markdown application allows the users to:  • Add items to the Cadence Markdown list  • Update price of marked down items  • Work on exceptions list  • Print and reprint markdown labels  • Remove an item from the Cadence Markdown list  • Send item for disposition via PMT button.  • Perform a markdown (add items to cadence markdown) at the time of return at POS  • Perform a sale at POS of previously marked down items return at POS  • New Cadence Markdown Admin tool will be developed as part of this application and will allow authorized users to:  a. Define Markdown Cadence Levels  b. Assign stores to Cadence groups  c. Turn on/off Cadence Markdown functionality  d. Manage seasonal merchandise  e. Manage groups  f. Export and import cadence levels to excel.    Responsibilities:  As Technology Lead my responsibility involved    • Understanding Client's Requirements  • Design activities, Design review and code review.  • Implementing scanner functionality.  • Printing functionality integration  • Co-ordination between onsite and offshore  Environment: Java 8, Spring, JavaScript, Liferay Portal server, MySQL. Java Module Lead TCS CEG, Bhubaneswar-Odisha - IN November 2011 to September 2013 Project Summary: - POS is a retail invoice application which provides various functionalities to multiple tills/registers which belong to different stores. It has different features like Role based authentication, item lookup, Sales, Advance invoice, Payment using different tender modes like Cash, Credit Card, Gift voucher etc. It has customer lookup and real-time earn burn functionality which interacts with other application. It provides a high degree of customization for billing operation with both 2-Tier and 3-Tier support. It uses Java, Spring framework, web-services and Ibatis framework with MySQL database.    Responsibilities:  As Senior Developer my responsibility involved    • Understanding the project requirements.  • Role based authentication mechanism  • Refactoring and breaking the modules into individual component  • Integration with 3rd party payment processor  • Internationalization(i18n) of existing application  • Invoking and exposing services using micro-services  • Design & Development  • Leading and mentoring team members (5-10)  • Test Driven development(Junit)  • Build process automation(Hudson)  • Maintaining code quality and compliance(Sonar)  • Testing & Bug Fixing    Environment: Java 6, Spring, ibatis, SOAP, WSDL, CXF, Mule, MySQL Java Module Leader NCB Capital, Bhubaneswar August 2008 to November 2011 Project Summary: - The project was mainly developing a trading platform. iTrade is a powerful trading platform that provides an integrated capability to perform real time market data analytics, pricing, quoting, order execution, position keeping and transaction book management to suit varied needs of broker dealer firms, and helps trading firms achieve increased trading and operational efficiencies. It reduces operational risk by managing the whole activity of trading and monitoring under a single roof.    iTrade is an undergoing Development of trading Solution to provide an integrated trading platform which will enable users to trade across various asset classes like equity, Mutual Fund, Forex and Derivatives like Futures and Options. The project involves rich GUI which displays real-time stock quotes with streaming data. The portal provides users to set various display preferences so that user can get the real time data according to his/her requirements. The entire trading and settlement process is fast and with minimum user action so that the overall execution period is minimal.    The portal which is built on technologies like Java Server faces, Spring, iBatis and other emerging technologies is self-sufficient for each segment of clients identified and provides tools like research, news, alerts, charts & quotes for the traders.    Responsibilities:  • Design & Development of thin client Trading application  • I was involved in development of advance drag and drop enabled Super Panel component which extends JSF core Panel  • Authentication and authorization Module  • Multiple theme implementation  • Enabling user preference for the portal  • Design & Development  • Enabling new innovative features in user interface  • Developing custom components  • leading and mentoring a team of 5    Environment: Java, JSP, JSF(Trinidad and Richfaces), IBatis, spring, YUI,Javascript Java Developer American Express February 2008 to August 2008 Project Summary:  The project is to develop the midrange part of a travel campaign creating application called LET in travel-based System. The project included major changes in the existing LET application which targets a population of business users. Front end was developed using JSP. The project also used scripting language Perl in UNIX environment.  Display summary and detail reports of campaigns related to customer.  • Displaying data using JSP pages  • Data extraction using Perl scripts    Responsibilities:  • Estimation and Impact Analysis  • Design to make the necessary changes to JSP.  • Modifying the existing Application  • Deploying the web application.  • Using UNIX commands for various tasks.  • Design & Development  • Testing & Bug Fixing    Environment: Java, JSP, UNIX Java Developer Dun and Bradstreet May 2007 to February 2008 Project Summary: - This project was to enhance and support the existing Back office legacy transaction process. It had different modules like Run the business (RTB) and Grow the Business (GTB)  The Project was targeted at  • Improving legacy transaction process for the client    Responsibilities:  • Impact Analysis of the existing systems.  • Designing for the project to make necessary changes in Unix, JAVA Classes, SQLs etc.  • Adding a new Login and Registration and Sales Order feature in whole application.  • Modifying the existing Login and Registration and order feature  Environment: Java, Unix, SQL Skills ECLIPSE, J2EE, JAVA, SPRING, JAX, JAXB, JAX-WS, JBOSS, JDK, jQuery, JSF, JSP, SERVLET, JIRA, APACHE, LINUX, UNIX, UNIX SHELL, Git, GROOVY, spring boot (3 years), Swagger (3 years), postman (2 years), kibana, jenkins Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    • JAVA- J2EE platform: JDK 1.8, JSP, Servlet, Spring, Ibatis, AJAX, JQUERY, YUI, Web services - REST and SOAP, JAXB, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud,Spring JDBC, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, XML  • Web Technology: JSF, JSP, Servlet, Ajax, JSON, JavaScript,  • RDMBS: Oracle 10i, MySQL 4.0,DB2, MS Access, PostgreSQL  • Database Languages: SQL, PL-SQL, Trigger, Function and Procedure.  • Scripting Languages: Groovy, Perl, Unix Shell Script  • Performance Testing: IBM Rational Performance Tester  • Application Servers - WebSphere, JBoss, Apache 2.0  • Web Server - Tomcat 8.0  • Tools: Eclipse, Toad 8.0, SQL Developer, DB Forge, Spring Tool Suite,SOAP-UI,Swagger,Postman, RAD, JIRA, NetBeans, Media wiki  • Repository: CVS, SVN, Git, Mercurial  • Operating System: HP-UNIX, LINUX