Sr. UI/UX Developer Sr. UI/UX <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. UI/UX Developer - Liberty Global Golden, CO • User Interface Design expert with strong interaction design and front-end development skills. Total 8+ years of extensive IT experience, over 6 years, developing user-centered design in reputed organizations.  • Good expertise in visual design, UX & UI design, strategy, web development and can relate targeted business goals across the entire project lifecycle.  • Experience in all phases of software development life cycle (SDLC), which includes User Interaction, Business Analysis/Modeling, Design/Architecture, Development, Implementation, Integration, Documentation, Testing, and Deployment.  • Highly knowledgeable in UML, Use Cases, Conceptual Models, Collaboration Diagrams, Class Diagrams, Activity and Sequence Diagrams.  • Ability to work with business functions to understand business requirements and develop technical specifications  • Experienced in implementing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) with XML based Web Services (SOAP/UDDI/WSDL) using Top down Approach and Bottom up Approach.  • Developed ANT scripts, and used MAVEN tool to build and deploy J2EE Applications  • Used SVN, CVS, Harvest, Clear case and Clear Quest for Version controlling and error reporting.  • Excellent communication, Team work, inter-personnel and presentation skills.  • Experience in designing User Interface (UI) applications and professional web applications using HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, XSL, XSLT, JQuery, D3.js, JSON and CSS.  • Expertise in client scripting language and server side scripting languages like JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, Node.js, ActionScript, JSF and JSP.  • Experience in designing Rich Internet Applications (RIA's) with YUI, JQuery, DOJO and AJAX.  • Experience in implementation of business applications using BEA Web logic, Web Sphere, IBM Websphere Application and Portal Server (WAS/WPS), JBoss and Tomcat. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. UI/UX Developer Liberty Global - Golden, CO February 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developing web pages by using HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript and working knowledge of Backbone JS, Node JS, Bootstrap JS, Angular2 and Angular4.  • Used Angular4 as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  • Actively involved in using Angular4, Typescript, Bootstrap and HTML5 to enable client-side date to meet specific criteria by applying various validation variables.  • Implemented Angular components for UI services to consume REST services using Component based architecture by providing Angular4.  • Enhanced an existing AngularJS application to follow strict MVC patterns for improved source code maintenance and enhanced performance.  • Developed various web pages and components using Angular2 by implementingpredefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager).  • Used JavaScript, CSS and Ajax for Web application development.  • Used Ajax & JSON communication for accessing RESTful web services data payload and to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly.  • Adding ES6 features involving ERROR functions, Promises, Exports, Imports andTEMPLATE strings.  • Implemented AngularJS based $http service to make AJAX requests to call the web services/APIs to fetch the data and populate the UI. Utilized Web sockets and Node.js to provide real time support.  • Used Bootstrap to render grid system and run media queries to make the web portal responsive according to the size of the device.  • Used node.js as a proxy to interact with RESTful services and interacting with MongoDB NoSQL Database.  • Worked on merging, committing the branches in the version control GIT and JIRA for issue assignment and development tracking.  • Used Webpack for bundling and minifying and the open source from BitBucket to stream build system in front-end web development.  • Developed GUI using JavaScript, HTML5, DOM, XHTML, AJAX, CSS3 and jQuery.  • Designed a responsive website using Bootstrap grid system to layout contents that fit different devices including mobile, tablet and desktop.    Environment: AngularJS, Angular2, Node.JS, Express.JS, Typescript, ES6, Passport.JS, Bootstrap, Html5, CSS3, MongoDB. Sr. UI/UX Developer Software Bisque - Chicago, IL April 2015 to January 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developed front-end components using WebObjects framework, Struts layout.  • Designed User Interface using with HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XSL, XSLT, JQuery, and CSS  • Using advanced level of HTML5, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS3 and pure CSS layouts.  • Implemented application level persistence using Hibernate and Spring.  • Created the structure of the website using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery/Knockout.js and Media Queries.  • Developed various UI (User Interface) components using Struts (MVC), JSP, and HTML.  • Involved in the development of backend Logics or data access logic using Oracle DB & JDBC.  • Developed and designed new cross-browser accessible interfaces using JQuery and JavaScript.  • Involved in writing JSPs, JavaScript and Servlets, Leaflet, Grunt to generate dynamic web pages and web content.  • Used WebLogic for design, development, and deployment of applications.  • Developed stored procedures, triggers and functions with PL/SQL for Oracle database.  • Worked with NoSQL database MongoDB and worked with it to perform many different operations  • Bottle micro-framework implemented with REST API and MongoDB (NoSQL) as back end database.  • Uses the DAO pattern for data access layer and JMS API for the messaging requirement.  • Used Javascript and JQuery, D3, JSON, Three JS for validating the input given to the user interface.  • Developed test cases and performed unit test using JUnit Framework.  • Developed internal application using Angular and Node connecting to Oracle on the backend.  • Developed Dash-Board to monitor and report Cache Coherence Servers.  • Developed frontend widgets in Backbone.js and Handlebars.js.  • Created distributed Oracle coherence domains, configuration and system design based on oracle coherence.  • Involved in intense User Interface (UI/UX) operations and client side validations using AJAX toolkit.  • Design and development of many PL/SQL batches using JAVA with connectivity to Oracle for data maintenance and handling.  • Used Subversion for software version control.  • Developed web applications using Spring MVC, JQuery, HTML5, Bootstrap  • Used Eclipse IDE for designing, coding and developing applications  • Involved in the development of presentation layer and GUI framework using EXTJS and HTML. Client Side validations were done using JavaScript.  • Implemented a prototype to integrate PDF documents into a web application using iText PDF library  • Customized Jasper Reports and SQL procedures according to the client requirements.  • Designing and creating business rules using IBM ILOG Rules Engine.  • Utilized Agile Methodology (SDLC) to managed projects  • Designed the UML, created class, sequential diagrams using Borland Together Architecture, modified code, configured WebLogic server and project in Oracle.  • Designed and implemented interface elements using Google Web Toolkit.  • Developed a Web 2.0 control console using GWT to manage data matching for data staging  • Lead, Designed and Developed SOA enterprise system using Oracle SOA  • Uses the DAO pattern for data access layer and JMS API for the messaging requirement.  • Involving in Building the modules in Linux environment with Ant Script    Environment: Javascript, Sencha ExtJS, JSP, JSTL, HTML5, CSS3, Angular,js, Node.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, Weblogic, Leaflet, Grunt, APACHE CXF, D3, JSON, Three JS, REST, JQuery, AJAX, Coherence, Subversion SVN, SERVLET, Mongo DB, Oracle, CRUD, PL/SQL, JDBC, UML, Eclipse, Junit, MAVEN, ITEXT, GWT (Google Web Toolkit), Jasper report, ILOG, Agile, Web 2.0, SOA Sr. UI Web Developer Tango Management - Irving, TX September 2013 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the analysis specification, design, implementation and testing phases of Software  • Creating and maintaining UI prototypes and specifications  • Designed and implemented UI using JavaScript, HTML5, XHTML, XML, CSS3, JSP, AJAX, jQuery, DOM  • Implemented Model View Controller (MVC) architecture Using Spring at the Web tier level to isolate each layer of the application to avoid the complexity of integration and ease of maintenance along with Validation Framework.  • Worked with XML and JSON using JQuery and JavaScript.  • Developed web presentation layer using HTML5and CSS3 according to internal standards and guidelines  • Designed and developed the front end in hand coded HTML, DHTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Used iBATIS framework with Spring framework for data persistence and transaction management.  • Worked on the Struts framework and JSP and Struts tag libraries to page display technology  • Developed the Servlets for processing the data on the server.  • Developed the front end using JSF and Portlet.  • Involved in implementing JQuery for providing interactive user interfaces.  • Configuration and deployment of application on to Jboss application server  • Used JDBC for database connectivity with MySQL Server.  • Developed web Components using JSP, Servlets and Server side components using EJB under J2EE Environment.  • Worked on JDBC to select and update the data from the MySQL database  • Used TOAD for database query testing, in the process of optimizing the queries  • Deployed, the application using Apache Tomcat Application server.  • Used Visual Source Safe for Version Control.  • Involved in creation of automation framework using Selenium and testing.  • Worked in SOA architecture for integration with ILog  • Designing the flow of the project using Water Fall Model.  • Created Class Diagrams and sequence diagrams using UML.  • Used ANT for building the application and deployed on JBoss Application Server.  • Used XML Web Services using SOAP to transfer the amount to transfer application  • Resolved the compatibility issues among Portlets and EMC Documentum API classes  • Executed the test steps defined in Test Cases manually and reporting the bugs in JIRA.  • Developed Swing for user interaction and data presentation.  • Install and configure a Linux server to publish applications and the DataBase  • Developed code for C, C++ to secure the transaction.  • Used web services (REST) to bridge the gap between our MS and Drupal technology.  • Involved in packaging, deployment and upgrade of different modules of SAS on JBoss server.  • Developed Java Script and Action Script, VB Script macros for Client Side validations.  • Conversions of JCL codes to equivalent Unix Shell Scripts and testing.  • Used Log4j for logging, debugging and used Junit extensively for testing.  • Developed and displayed Brokerage Individuals using Widget, Controller, Web services.  • Wrote complex SQL queries to communicate with Oracle.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, iBatis, Struts, JSF, EJB, Jboss, APACHE AXIS2, WSDL, Jquery, JSP & SERVLET, MYSQL , Toad , SQL Server, DB2, UML, Netbeans, ClearCase, Selenium, ANT, XML, EMC Documentum, JIRA, SWING, CVS, Visual Source Safe, Cognos, ILOG, Water fall model, Oracle ADF, Oracle BPM, IBM MQ Series, Apache Tomcat, Linux, Unix, Flex, Ruby, Wordpress, drupal , .Net, ASP, C, C++, Mainframe, COBOL, PL/I, JCL, SAS,VB Developer Brilliant Age, Inc - Audubon, NJ March 2012 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Developed various UI (User Interface) components using Struts (MVC), JSP, and HTML, JavaScript, AJAX.  • Involved in developing business components using POJO.  • Installed, configured, deployed, Monitored and troubleshoot WebLogic.  • Involved in writing packages, stored procedures to retrieve/modify data in database.  • Used MVC architecture, Business Delegate, Session facade, Data Access Object, Value Object and Singleton patterns  • Involved in writing client side validations using Java Script.  • Troubleshooting WebLogic Server.  • Developed the Action Classes, Action Form Classes, created JSPs using Struts tag libraries and configured in Struts-config.xml, Web.xml files.  • The business logic was implemented in Processors and DAO layer accesses the back-end SQL Server database using Hibernate.  • Created JUnit test cases to cover unit testing for the components.  • Used Log4j for logging and handling defects of the application    Environment: Web Service, Spring, Java, EJB, Java Script, Weblogic, Hibernate, Log4j, Ant script, TOAD, Putty, WinScp, Net Beans and Oracle. Java Developer Timios Inc - Pittsburgh, PA February 2011 to February 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in development of various modules Using AJAX, JSP, and Servlets.  • Well Implementation of JDBC Connectivity to Access Data From Database Servers.  • UAT Support & Release Activities.  • Active Participation in the life cycle of the Project as a Team Member.    Environment: Core Java, JSP, Servlets, Ajax, Oracle, PL/SQL, Stored procedures, JDBC, Oracle, GUI, HTML, JavaScript Java Developer Health Connection - Minneapolis, MN March 2009 to February 2011 Responsibilities:  • Developed new system Automated Management System with Java and JSF.  • Common Error message routines throughout the framework.  • Implemented Log4j in application.  • Implemented Ant Script in application.  • Involved in reviewing the code and generating the Reports using PMD tool.  • Automated XML parsing and generation of HTML files and uploading in FTP, integrated around six automated scheduler and Automated Application deployment.  • Provide effort estimation for new enhancements requested and requirement break-up.  • Handled client interaction in raising and resolving issues.  • Participated in creation of high-level business analysis documents, detail design documents.  • Automated XML downloads from distributed sites.    Environment: JBoss, Java, Eclipse, JSF, My SQL, JDBC, XML, Log4j, Ant script, AJAX, JavaScript. Education Bachelor's Skills Javascript, Angular, Front End, UI, React Certifications/Licenses Driver's License