Lead/Sr. Software Design and Development Professional(Architect) Lead/Sr. Software Design and Development Professional(Architect) Lead/Sr. Software Design and Development Professional - Good Year Strongsville, OH • Over 17+ years of professional experience in user interaction, requirement gathering, systems analysis, design, development and implementation of N-Tier Application Systems in Internet and Intranet environment.  • Vertical industry experience includes Telecom, Health Care , Auto Insurance, Banking Retail , Manufacturing and CRM.  • Expertise in designing and coding N-tier architecture enterprise applications  • Expert at providing application re-engineering and modernization solutions.  • Extensive use of Database (Oracle 9i/10g/11g, MySql, Sybase,DB2) and Distributed System Programming.  • Well versed with coding and understanding existing code written in all web based technologies and other languages like C++, C, VC++,COBOL,JCL, Linux/Unix/Perl Shell Scripting etc.  • Very well-versed in J2EE design patterns like Spring /Struts MVC, Front Controller, Abstract Pattern, Singleton, Service Locator, Session Facade, Factory ,Composite Design-Pattern, Business-Delegate, Apache Camel Framework ,Maven ,SOA Patterns and Data Access Objects.  • Strong experience in development and deployment with BEA Weblogic 7.x/6.x, IBM Websphere Application Server 6.1/7.0/7.5/8.0/8.5, Apache Tomcat 5.1/7.0 and Jboss4.2/6.0 App Servers.  • Expertise in programming with SQL, PL/SQL/DB2/Sybase in writing Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Table Indexing and materialized view creation for Database and Query Tuning, using SQL*Plus, PL/SQL Developer ,Erwin Data Modelling and TOAD tools.  • Experience in working with IBM BPM tool.  • Experience in working with JMS MOM and Active MQ.  • Exposure on AWS Webservices on Cloud computing platform.  • Experience in working with Rally tool and completed the Rally tool certification..  • Experience in writing User defined functions (UDF) required for Big data  • Experience with HTML5, Angularjs, Node.js,Exit.js,React.js,BootStrap programming languages.  • Experience using JAX-RPC,JAX-WS,JAX-RS,JAX-M APIs and CXFAPIs for developing the web services.  • Experience using XAML language to develop the presentation layer.  • Experience in working with Big Data Hadoop MapReduce, Hbase,Hive,Sqoop and Pig etc languages.  • Expert in working with various xml Parsers like ,DOM,JDOM,DOM4J,SAX, JSON and JAXB.  • Experience in developing the REST webservices both (Producing and Consuming) and rest security.  • Experience in developing the mobile apps in IBM Worklite.  • Experience in Hibernate validation framework JSR303.  • Experience in working with Spring batch ,spring boot and Spring security.  • Experience in developing Cognos Report generating using other Modules like Framework,Query,Analysis ect.  • Experience working in various Software Development Life Cycles (SDLC) like - Waterfall, Iterative, Agile SCRUM ,ATDD and TDD Methodologies.  • Experience working with the TypeScript language.  • Experience working with the BigData technologies like Hbase,Hive,Pig,Sqoop etc.  • Experience with Messaging frameworks like JMS,Activemq etc.  • Exposure on TriZetto Facets Application Architecture, Data model.  • Exposure to Nosql databases like Hadoop,MongoDb.  • Experience working in Linux and Unix environments and shell scripting.  • Experience in developing applications with Ruby on Rails.  • Experience in design and developing physical and logical database structures using ERWIN tool.  • Experience working in various testing tools like QTP , EasyMockit,Junit, JMock, SoapUI and Jmeter etc  .Exposure on working IBM Integration Bus(IIB).  • Experience in Coordination between Development, Testing, and Design, Release Management teams.  • Experience Developing the test Plans and test strategies.  • Experience in writing and building applications using the Maven and Ant build scripts.  • Experience using the Jenkins/Hudson to perform the Continuous Integration (CI),GIT Flow etc.  • Experience Application securities like LDAP,SSO ,SSL,Web Security,Spring Security and PingFedarate  • Ability to grasp new technologies and correctly apply new tools.  • Possess good leadership qualities, Interpersonal Skills, team-working attitude, take initiatives and very proactive in solving problems and providing best solutions.  • Tremendous flexibility and ability to cope up under tight schedules, after-hours, on-call availability Work Experience Lead/Sr. Software Design and Development Professional(Architect) Good Year - Akron, OH September 2016 to Present Production Scheduling& Monitoring System(PSMS): PSMS Application System is Manufacturing Reporting System. It is suite of scheduling and production Monitoring applications that run locally in a Tire Plant. PSMS also provides a suite of web reports for North American Tires management system. PSMS application suite supports 9 regional facilities and multiple functional departments, real-time manufacturing reporting, waste entry and reporting, material delivery receipts, inventory management, and production planning. PSMS plays a crucial role in the plant from mixing to the curing.    • Responsibilities:  • Requirement gathering, preparation of Use case documents UML HLD/LLD design documents.  • Developed the PSMS application presentation Layer using Jsp/JavaScript /AJAX/css/JSTL a JQuery1.9.2.  • Developed the business logic of the application using the Rest Web services for the new functionality of the Applications.  • Developed the XSD/XML request objects for the new enhancements of the Applications.  • Developed the Mfgcorp application UI using HTML5 and BootStrap and Jquery languages.  • Developed Rest Webservices(Producer/Consumer) to implement the business logic of the application.  • Worked on the JMS activeMQ configuration and to communicate with the legacy Systems  • Supported multiple web applications in a manufacturing environment.  • Developed the Junit/JMock unit test cases to perform the Unit testing for the application enhancements done.  • Developed the QTP test scripts and Test Suites for the entire PSMS application.  • Developed the Complex AS400 Quires Functions/Store Procedures.  • Performed the CI for all the PSMS applications using the Jenkins.  • Work with Staffing and Development to staff the project, assign roles and responsibilities and deliver on the analytical agenda.  • Environment: Java 5/6/7/8, BootStrap,SVN ,GIT, HTML5.0 , RAD 9.i, Tomcat 6.0/ 7.0/8.0, Spring 3.0/4.0, DB2, UNIX, Log4j, JQuery1.6/1.7/1.8/1.92 .PostMan. Lead/Sr. Software Design and Development Professional (Architect) Blue Cross Blue Shield Association - Chicago, IL February 2013 to August 2016 Blue2/ClaimAdmin/Planprofile/AlphaPrefix Systems: Blue Cross Blue Shield's Inter plan communication platform Blue Squared, Claim Processing tool Claims Administration and Plan profile information Extraction. These tools are used by 38 Blues for Inter plan Claims processing. Involved in designing/developing processes for claims processing/administration and for effective/time efficient ways of Claims submission/processing.  Responsibilities:  • Requirement gathering, preparation of Use case documents UML HLD/LLD design documents.  • Acted as Scrum Master to implement the enhancements for the Blue2/CA applications.  • Developed Claims Admin presentation Layer using Flex3.1/4.0.  • Developed the Planprofile/AlphaPrefix Applications Presentation layer using Angular.js, Thymeleaf HTML5.0/CSS3.0 and Bootstrap.  • Developed the Plan profile Application business logic using the REST/Soap Webservices using JAX-WS,JAX-RS Apache CXFAPIs.  • Developed the Blue2 presentation Layer using Jsp/JavaScript /AJAX/css/JSTL and JQuery.  • Developed the Blue2 App security by implementing the SSO using the PingFedarate.  • Involved in enhancements of Eclipse Modeling Framework (EMF) and Schema Definition Object Validation framework that are used in the Blue2.  • Developed the Blue2 business logic in Soap Webservices and Rest Web services for the new functionality of the Applications.  • Strong Experience working with JMS message ques and MOM.  • Developed the persistence layer of the application using the Hibernate and performed the field level validation using Hibernate Validation framework.  • Modified the Blue2/Plan Profile Application to make compatible with the new IE11 version from IE8/9 Versions..  • Developed the XSD/XML request objects for the new enhancements of the Applications.  • Developed the Junit/JMock unit test cases to perform the Unit testing for the application enhancements done.  • Developed the QTP test scripts and Test Suites for the entire Blue2 tools.  • Developed the Complex DB2 Quires Functions/Store Procedures  • Performed the CI for all the Blue applications using the Jenkins.  • As a Technical lead helped to the other team members in fixing the all the technical  • Work with Staffing and Development to staff the project, assign roles and responsibilities and deliver on the analytical agenda.  • Environment: Java 5/6/7/8, Flex3.1/4.0, JMS, Anjular.js ,BootStrap,Clear case , Clear Quest , HTML5.0 , Thymeleaf, RAD 7.5/8.0/8.5, WAS 7.5/8.1/8.5, Spring 3.0/4.0, DB2, UNIX, Log4j, JQuery1.6.SoapUI. Lead/Sr. Java Developer SNAPON Business Solutions - Richfield, OH February 2012 to January 2013 • EPC Daimler Publishing System: Snap-On uses EPC Daimler Publishing System to process the Text and XML files and store the Datacards and Catalogs which are provided by the Daimler System that are used by the application in various regions across the global.. Generate the Data Compression Reports. Gap Analysis between current EPC Datacards and Catalog Publishing process, analyzing the new Datacards filtering and Catalog footnotes publishing that are included in the Business Requirement Document.  • Common Data Extract Tool enhancement which is used in Publishing System.  Responsibilities:  • Requirement gathering, preparation of High-level design (HLD) and Low-level design (LLD) documents of the application.  • Implemented AGILE (SCRUM)Methodology approach in SDLC  • Developed presentation Layer using XHTML, CSS, JSTL, Backbone.js,JavaScript and JQuery.  • Responsible for developing end to end architecture using Struts1.2 and Spring 2.5 integration.  • Setting up a Maven Repositories, Maven build environment.  • Developed spring configuration files to load the context of the application..  • Responsible for Extract Tool enhancements.  • Developed the persistence layer using Spring Hibernate to store the data in Oracle 10g database Developed the business logic of the system in web services(SOAP) in Contract First Approach..  • Responsible for designing new tables structures as per modules which can be easily fit into existing database design.  • Developed the Perl Scripts to generate the Reports.  • Administering JIRA project management tool.  • Developed the Unit test cases using Junit 3.x framework.  • Used Congnos tool to generate the reports  • Environment: JDK 1.4/1.5/1.6, Struts1.2 , Backbone.js, Spring 2.5 ,Jboss 7.0, Hibernate3.0, Ajax, XML Maven, Junit 3, StarTeam, JIRA, Maven, JQuery1.6 PL/SQL,STARTEAM ,Cognos and soapUI Sr. Lead Java Developer Sherwin Williams - Cleveland, OH October 2010 to February 2012 • Collection Processing System (CPR): Sherwin Williams currently uses, CPR application which is a web based application used by Sherwin Williams Stores department to process various accounts collection processing across different geographies -USA, Canada and across the global. A/R System is a Legacy System used by Sherwin Williams for Collection processing for various accounts. As a Part of Integration of A/R system with CPR application, we have developed various front-end screens, Web services and PL/SQL store procedures. On successful integration of A/R application with CPR, Sherwin Williams would decommission the A/R application.  • Gaps between current CPR and A/R application have been identified and requirements for filling those gaps are included in this Business Requirement Document  Responsibilities:  • Requirement gathering, prepared High-level design (HLD) and Low-level design (LLD) documents of the application.  • Used AGILE (SCRUM) Methodology of SDLC to develop the project.  • Developed presentation Layer using HTML, CSS, JSTL, JavaScript, Dojo, JQuery ,PHP and AJAX  • Developed the persistence layer using Hibernate3.0 and JPA2.0  • Developed the (SOAP/Restful) web services to get the accounts details from the external System.  • Performed the Struts application integration with the Spring application.  • Rewrite the DAO layer of the application by using the spring Jdbctemplate  • Used Spring 2.5 and Struts 1.2 as a development environment in this project.  • Analyzed the Performance of the current CPR application using WEB Trends Tool.  • Developed and deployed the Application in Jboss4.2 AppServer.  • MOBIUS Document Extract tool was configuration across different environments deployed in Tomcat5.1 App Server.  • Used Apache Camel Frame Work to integrate the CPR application with other external Accounts System.  • Used Junit 3x for developing the unit test cases to test the application and REMEDY tool for bug tracking.  • Developed Log4j to log the entries, while running the application.  • Environment: JDK 1.5/1.6 , Struts with Spring, JPA, Spring JDBC/Hibernate Template ,Jboss 4.2, Eclipse, AJAX, Junit 3x, Log4j, Eclipse link2.5, soapUI, WebTrends,DoJo, Web Service-SOAP JAX-WS and PL/SQL. Sr. Lead Java Developer Morgan Stanley - New York, NY July 2009 to September 2010 New Account Opening System: Legacy Smith Barney used WebNAS to open and maintain accounts and Legacy Morgan Stanley used Merlin. As part of the integration of Morgan Stanley and Smith Barney, one new account opening platform will support the MSSB user community. WebNAS screens and workflows will serve as the foundation for front-end which would be integrated with the legacy Morgan Stanley core platform and database. Gaps between current Merlin and WebNAS have been identified and requirements for filling those gaps are included in this Business Requirement Document. After the implementation, Merlin will be decommissioned.  Responsibilities:  • Requirement gathering, prepared High-level design (HLD) and Low-level design (LLD) documents of the application.  • Implemented AGILE Methodology approach to develop the project.  • Design and development of the code for MVC Architecture using Struts Framework- Servlets, JSP, Actionform, ActionClass and ActionMappings  • Developed business logic of the system in web services (SOAP) in Contract First Approach to get the customer account details from external System and used SOAPUI to perform the uniting testing of the Webservices.  • Developed presentation Layer using HTML, CSS, JSTL, JQuery, JavaScript, PHP  • Developed the persistence layer using Hibernate3.0  • Deployed the Application in WAS7.0/6.1 App Server.  • Developed the complex quires and performed query tuning in Sybase.  • Developed a Logical and physical data model using ERWIN tool.  • Used IBM Rational Synergy7.0 control tool to maintain the project source code.  • Environment: JDK 1.5, Struts1.2, Eclipse3.6, Junit3.2, Log4j, WAS7.0/6.1, IBM Rational Synergy7.0,REMEDY,RAD, ERWIN, HTML, CSS, JSTL, JQuery, soapUI, Sybase,JavaScript, PHP.  Global Documentation System (GDS)  • GDS (Global Document Storage and Management System) primarily holds scanned images of regulatory client documentation. It has a complex rules engine to track legal regulations worldwide and ensures that the firm compliance is not violated. These regulations include but not limited to, various anti-money laundering regulations, KYC (Know Your Customer), client identity checks, tax regulations and MiFID (Markets in Financial Instruments Directive) regulations.  • Docpoint (Document Management and image Management) Intelligent search provides instant document, account, party retrieval and comprehensive security from unauthorized access, paper scanning and import of electronic files into secure digital archives. It also helps to save storage space, thus reducing the warehousing costs.  Responsibilities:  • Requirement gathering, Impact Analysis of the existing System due to the new Requirements.  • Developed High-level design (HLD) and Low-level design (LLD) documents of the application.  • Implemented TDD Methodology approach in SDLC.  • Design and development of the code for MVC Architecture using Struts Framework- Servlets, JSP, Actionform, ActionClass and ActionMappings  • Developed business logic of the system in web services (SOAP) in Contract First Approach to get the customer account details from external System.  • Developed presentation Layer using Jsp/Jstl,Ajax.  • Developed the persistence layer using Hibernate  • Involved in Requirement Reviews and code reviews.  • Used Congnos tool to generate the reports  • Created Database Objects like stored procedures, functions and complex queries required for Business Transactions using Sybase.  • Used Junit3.2 to test the unit level functionality.  • Environment: JDK 1.4/1.5, Struts1.2, Eclipse3.6, TomCat5.1, Junit 3.1, Log4j, PL/SQL, HTML, JS, JSTL, JQuery, HTML, JS, JSTL, soapUI ,JavaScript, ,Sybase,Cognos, Web Service-SOAPUI,JAX-WS API,PHP Senior Java Developer Apple - Cupertino, CA July 2008 to June 2009 Description:  • Worked on the Global Customer Relationship Management initiative that maintains relationship with Apple customers for products like - IPOD, IPHONE and IMAC. Customers can place the orders online, report issues, and raise any concerns pertaining to the sold products. It contains five models - ILOG, IKNOW, ExpertAdmin, IREPAIR and soft phone.  Responsibilities:  • Requirement gathering, Impact Analysis of the existing System due to the new Requirements.  • Developed High-level design (HLD) and Low-level design (LLD) documents of the application.  • Implemented Iterative Methodology approach in SDLC.  • Developed presentation Layer using HTML, JSP,PHP, JavaScript and AJAX  • Developed business logic of the system in Struts Frameworks using Java.  • Developed (Restful) web services to get the Customer details from the external System.  • Used Singleton, Front Controller, MVC and DAO design patterns.  • Developed Unit test cases to test the unit level functionality of the Application.  • Responsible for Development, unit testing, integration testing and implementation of the application.  • Environment: JDK1.4/1.5, J2EE, Ajax, Struts1.2, PL/SQL, HTML, JSP, soapUI ,PHP, JavaScript. Sr. Lead Java Developer Qwest Communications - Dublin, OH April 2004 to June 2008 Description:  • LIMS will provide a user Interface to support provisioning and trouble shooting in customer services. It provides IP Address Management (IPAM) to manage IP address blocks. It also provides interface with other Qwest back office systems to obtain external service component and network element information. Interface with Network Activation systems (NAP) which communicates with network devices to support partial or full flow-throw provisioning.  • Interface with Order Entry provisioning systems to support new and helps maintenance of existing services. LIMS provides the ability to search and/or modify the configuration from other systems via an exposed API.  Responsibilities:  • Requirement gathering, Impact Analysis of the existing System due to the new Requirements.  • Developed the High-level design (HLD) and Low-level design (LLD) documents of the application.  • Implemented Iterative Methodology approach in SDLC.  • Design and development of the code for MVC Architecture using Struts Framework- Servlets, JSP, Actionform, ActionClass and ActionMappings  • Developed the business logic of the system in web services (SOAP) in Contract First Approach to get the customer account details from external System.  • Used Singleton, Struts MVC, Session Facade and DAO design patterns.  • Developed presentation Layer using HTML, JSP and JavaScript  • Developed the business logic of the application using ejb2.0.  • Developed the Struts Validation.XML Validation_rule.XML that are required to validate the input view files  • Used WLS7.0 as an application server in a clustered environment for load balancing.  • Developed Ant build script to build the make file of the application.  • Used CVS as a version control tool to maintain the project source code.  • Used Quality Center for defect tracking in User acceptance testing of the application.  • Developed PL/SQL store procedures for data migration and database upgrade from oracle 9i to 10g using TOAD.  • Developed the Test Plans/Test Cases.  • Used REMEDY as a defect tracking tool.  • Environment: JDK1.4/1.5, J2EE, Struts1.1, EJB2.0, ANT, CVS, PL/SQL,TOAD, HTML, soapUI, JSP and JavaScript. Developer/Systems Analyst United States Automobile Association - San Antonio, TX January 2001 to March 2004 Description:  • United Services Automobile Association (USAA) is a worldwide insurance and diversified financial services association serving the U.S. military personnel and their families. The Policy Administration System (PAS) is the flagship program in Application Replacement Program of USAA, which is a strategic initiative to re-engineer legacy applications based on industry standard components and technologies. PAS - aimed to replace the present legacy system for the Automobile Policy issue and maintenance.  Worked in Multiple modules:  • Auto Policy Attachments is used in determining document type based on auto policy adjustment, renewal and cancellation. It is also used to handle auto policy reinstatements (change of station, short term policy issuances, suppressing letters, issuing CCS letters, duplicate declarations and proof of insurance letters)  • Issue Policy is developed as a part of PAS. It is used to provide online Policy Issue capability for USAA members  • Product Admin application used by as a part of PAS to build insurance products, product components (Coverage, Limits & benefits). It defines business rules for other subsystems. It is also used to generate reports for all the defined products  Responsibilities:  • Requirement gathering, preparing the technical documents and get the approval from the tech lead for them.  • Analyzed the Applet Framework  • Involved in requirement and code reviews  • Developed a lower level design specification using (MasterCraft tool)  • Developed business logic of the system using C++.  • Developed Unit test plans and executed the test cases  • Developed PL/SQL DML and DLL queries.  • Environment: Java, HTML, UML, MasterCraft, UNIX, JCL, PL/SQL and C++. Education M.TECH in Computer Science Skills JAVA (10+ years), WEB SERVICES (10+ years), SOAP (10+ years), PL/SQL (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), MicroServices (2 years), AWS Cloud Computing (1 year), Angular js (3 years), Node, Angular, Javascript Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages: CoreJava,J2EE,VB,HTML,HTML5,DB2,PL/SQL, C, C++, Pearl ,Jaython,Python ,Linux,UNIX Shell Script,Ruby ,Rails  Enterprise Solutions: Java J2EE, Rational Architect, UML, SOA Architecture, Enterprise Architect (EA) tool  RDBMS: DB29.0/10g, PLSQL ,SQL Server 2005, MS Access 9x, Oracle 9i/10g, MySql 5.x, Hadoop,Hive,Pig,MangoDb , Sybase  Concepts /Frameworks: J2EE, Apache Struts, Spring-MVC, JPA,JDBC, RMI, Hibernate 3.x/4.x, Junit, Ant, Report, log4j, CSS, AJAX, J2EE 1.7/1.8, Apache AXIS-2 Web Service framework, eclipse Modeling Framework (EMF) SOA architecture technologies like Websphere 8.5/8.0/7.0/6.Apache Camel,JerseyFrameWork,Hibernate Validator,SpringIntigration,SpringMVC ,Struts2,Expression Frame Work  OS: Windows NT/98/00/XP/WIN7, AIX, UNIX, Linux and MS DOS  Scripts: Java Script, DoJo,Node.Js,Mootools.js,Backbone.js,Pearl ,Linux and Unix Shell Script, JQuery, Bootstrap and Angalur.js,React.js,Jlit  Distributed Technologies: Java Web services Apache CXF, EJB, RMI, SOAP, REST,Ruby,Grovee Grails  Markup Languages: XML, HTML, DHTML,XAML, XSL, XSLT,Xpath,XQuery  Database Modelling /Reporting Tools ERWIN, Cognos,ETL and Rally tool  IDE & Editor: Myeclips,Eclipse, Eclipselink , IntelliJ, Edit Plus, XML Spy, IBM Worklite and Websphere Integration Developer 6.2.  Testing Tool: Load Runner8.1, Quality Centre, QTP,SOAP UI, JUNIT and JMock.EasyMockIt  Defect Tracking Tools Jira,Remedy,ClearQwest.  App securities: SSO(Single Sign On),LDAP, WS_Security,PingFedarate ,Spring Security  Web& Application Server: WAS 6.x/7.x/8.x, (Websphere Application Server), Tomcat 6.x/7.x, JBOSS 4.2/5.x/6.x  Version Control Tool/CI Integration tools: Rational Clear Case, CVS, SVN ,Git , StarTeam ,Ant, Jenkins,Maven,Tfs,Gradle  Design Patterns: MVC (Model-View-Controller), Front Controller, Service Locater, Business Delegates, Intercepting Filter, Transfer Object, Singleton, Factory Pattern, Adapter Pattern, Decorator Pattern,Composite Patteren, Factory Pattern,Abstract Pattern,State Pattern,Proxy Pattern,DAO Pattern,Template Pattern and Spring MVC etc