Sr. UI/ JAVA Developer Sr. UI/<span class="hl">JAVA</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. UI/ JAVA Developer Dallas, TX • 8+ years of strong experience in software development using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Experienced in using Agile Methodology including creating product/sprint catalogs, active participation in Scrum, Sprint planning and exit meetings.  • Expertise as a Java developer with experience in the full life cycle of requirements through functional design and testing.  • Expertise in the full-lifecycle of software development (requirements gathering, designing, building, testing and maintenance)  • Experience in using the JavaScript frameworks JQuery, Angular.js and Twitter Bootstrap.  • Good understanding of Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM functions. Experience on working with CSS background, Layouts, Positioning, Text, Border, Padding, Pseudo Classes, Elements and CSS behaviors in CSS.  • Expertise in using HTML4.0/5, CSS2/3, XML, XSL, XSLT, JAXP, JAXB, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, JSON, JSTL, Backbone JS, Express JS, YUI (yahoo UI) Ext JS, React Js, Node JSand AJAX meeting W3C standards.  • Good Knowledge with Gulp and Grunt task runner to manage project, npm and Bower package manger.  • Experience in deploying, configuring and administering application servers such as IBM WebSphere, WebLogic, Jboss, JAX-WS, Glassfish and Apache Tomcat.  • Excellent working knowledge in designing and developing enterprise applications using J2EE technologies such as JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JNDI, JMS, JSTL, JUnit.  • Proficient in integration of Enterprise Java Beans (EJB) with existing applications and using services provided in distributed applications through Web Services (JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, JAX-RS)  • Expertise in implementation of web applications using frameworks such as SPRING, SPRING MVC, Web flow, JPA, and Persistence Framework like Hibernate ORM (Object Relational Mapping) in a typical n-tier architecture.  • Expertise in MVC Architecture using JSF and Struts framework and implementing custom tag libraries.  • Expertise in implementing Design Patterns like Singleton, Controller, MVC (Model View Controller), Session Facade, Service locator, DAO, DTO, Business Delegate, Factory and Abstract Factory, Decorator, Observer, Adapter and Strategy.  • Worked on the SPRING framework like SPRING IOC and SPRING DAO, JDBC Templates, Transactions, Security, AOP, MVC, ORM etc.  • Used persistence frameworks, Hibernate ORM, JPA to map POJOs to a relational database.  • Strong working experience on Hibernate. Used Hibernate Connection Pooling, HQL, Hibernate Caching.  • Proficient in XML technologies like XSL/XSLT, SAX, DOM, XPath, SOAP, WSDL, DTD, XSD, JAXB, JAXP and Apache Axis.  • Extensively used Maven and ANT as build script for application build and deployment, Junit and log4j for unit testing and logging and Client side java script Unit testing tools such as Jasmine along with karma, coffee, mocha, chai scripts.  • Good experience in server side Business Logic Development using Session, Entity and Message Driven Beans.  • Extensive experience in development, deployment and troubleshooting Web based and enterprise based applications on Windows, UNIX and Linux platforms.  • Expertise in automation testing such as Selenium and Protractor.  • Execution of automated test scripts using Load Runner, Jmeter to test the performance and SOAP UI is the web service testing tool for API Testing.  • Experience in Web Application Development, SOA, Client-Server based Enterprise Applications, System Analysis, Technical Design, B2B Implementation, Performance Tuning and Testing.  • Used various jQuery and Bootstrap plugins like date picker, bootstrap selectors.  • Experience in developing Web Services using - SOAP, WSDL and developing DTDs, XSD schemas for XML (parsing, processing, and design)  • Experience in database design and implementation using different RDBMS like Microsoft SQL Server 2008, Oracle 8i, 9i, 10g, MySQL.  • Hands on experience with version control systems like CVS, SVN (Apache Subversion), CLEARCASE, Serena Dimensions and GIT for providing common platform for all the developers.  • Worked on continuous integration tool like Jenkins, Quick Build and Bamboo.  • Experience in writing ANT, Maven and Gradle and processes such as Agile and waterfall methodologies.  • Extensively worked on NoSQL database Mongo DB and good knowledge on Cassandra.  • Accomplished with creating Test Plans, defining Test Cases, reviewing and maintaining Test Scripts, interacting with team members in fixing errors and executing User Acceptance Testing (UAT), Unit, System Integrated Test and Customer Test.  • Possess strong communication and Interpersonal skills. Can quickly master and work on new concepts and applications with minimal supervision. Attention to detail, thoroughness, tenacity and an investigative drive to discover the underlying causes of technical problems. Work Experience Sr. UI/ JAVA Developer American Group - Dallas, TX January 2015 to Present American Group companies are leading providers of life insurance and retirement services around the world. This application is the web portal for American Group customers. Customers can login/register on the site. The application facilitates the users to search information, pertaining to different kinds of Insurance policies and providers list from the data repository. The application supports different backend systems which makes this project an enterprise project.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in design of application framework using J2EE guidelines and different J2EE design patterns and Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) methodologies.  • Involved in the analysis & design of the application using UML with Rational Rose.  • Created a Front-end application using Bootstrap, Restful, AWS, Angular JS, JSPs, Ext JS and SPRING MVC for registering a new patient and configured it to connect to database using Hibernate.  • GUI Implementation using JQuery, AJAX, JNDI, Ext JS, CSS, Bootstrap, HTML5.  • Used Backbone.JS for passing on data from HTML forms.  • Configuration and deployment of application on to IBM WebSphere application server.  • Worked on development and operations to facilitate deployment of components over AWS using Jenkins, IBM RAD/RSA7.  • Used Node JS, React JS, Backbone JS MVC framework for developing the Single Page Application.  • Developed web service using JavaScript framework React JS to facilitate consumer-driven contract integration testing between micro services.  • Worked on messaging/queuing systems, streams and micro services.  • Used Struts Framework in the application, which is based on MVC design pattern  • Implemented Restful services with SPRING in the Application.  • Developed Web Services to communicate to other modules using XML based SOAP and WSDL protocols.  • Enhanced the Scroll View widget to improve performance, add new functionality, and introduce test coverage using Node JS and Backbone JS.  • Extensively used IBM Web Sphere for designing, maintaining, deployment and application debugging.  • Develop data standards, data exchange AWS, XML data standard or data sharing model  • Used Hibernate as a ORM Framework.  • Worked extensively on Restful templates to consume the REST web services including security.  • Assisted Database Developers using PL/SQL for managing data associated with the tables.  • Used JSON as response type in Restful services.  • Involved in Performance and SQL Query Optimization.  • Used Maven for dependencies and configuration management.  • Used Karma framework for handling unit tests.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4J and fixed the problems.  • Used GIT as version control tool involved in developing the application using SPRING modules like SPRING core, SPRING AOP and SPRING data.  • Involved in the deployment of Web-Service End-Points using Apache CXF.  • Involved in designing test plans, test cases and overall Unit testing of the system.  • Worked on Agile methodologies    Environment: Java, J2EE, SPRING, Node JS, React JS, Backbone JS NoSQL, APACHE CXF, Hibernate, JSP, JSTL, SERVLET, ESB, UNIX/LINUX, H2, JDBC, UML, Eclipse, Junit, Apache, PL/SQL, JSON, Log4j, Restful, AWS, XML, SOAP, JQuery, Jenkins, AJAX, JNDI, JIRA, Ext JS CSS, Bootstrap, HTML5, MAVEN. Sr. JAVA/J2EE Developer Subaru of America February 2014 to December 2014 Subaru of America is the United States-based distributor of Subaru's brand vehicles, a subsidiary of Fuji Heavy Industries of Japan. My responsibility is to build up the Info Management System with responsive design and UI/layout coding with front-end functionality which will help analyze the data from the customers.    Responsibilities:  • Collaboration with Business Users or Business Analysts and gathering the requirements and splitting them into stories workable items, involved in security implementation using SPRING Security.  • Prepared Analysis document and prototype, developed/Coded End-to-End functionality and followed AGILE software development with Scrum methodology.  • Developed front-end code with Ajax call in AngularJS and jQuery to retrieve data as JSON Object from controllers in back-end RESTful Server, then display the well-organized result in web pages by writing AngularJS controller, directives, services, and route providers.  • Developed the application on Node.js platform using JavaScript programming.  • Developed UI components for email and link sharing documents and files for a content Management system using Back Bone.  • Applied data transformation business rules to transform code from one format to another format using Node JS.  • Created the Node JS EXPRESS Server to build MVC framework from front-end side AngularJS to back-end Oracle.  • Extensive experience using framework APIs like Struts, SPRING, iBatis and Hibernate.  • Worked on the SPRING framework like SPRING IOC and SPRING DAO.  • Implemented application level persistence using Hibernate and SPRING.  • Developed various components using Struts (MVC), JSP, and HTML.  • Involved in the development of backend Logics or data access logic using Oracle DB & JDBC.  • Used WebLogic for design, development, and deployment of applications.  • Developed API using Hibernate to interact with the Oracle database.  • Developed framework for the incident creation and management module in the project. Integrated the Incident creation with JBPM workflow.  • Extensively worked on Multithreading, Remote Method Invocation (RMI), EJB, Serialization, and Java Beans.  • Responsible for the development and maintenance of Billing Engine and Pre-Audit, using Collection and  Multi-Threading.  • Worked extensively on SPRING MVC framework to develop new internal web application.  • Extensively worked on backbone.js for Build structured, reusable code and libraries for future use, to ensure the technical feasibility of UI/UX designs  • Enforce compliance with dynamic processing and security policies by using Mule ESB.  • Used Amazon Web services (AWS) to provide a large computing capacity  • Developed stored procedures, triggers and functions with PL/SQL for Oracle database.  • Uses the DAO pattern for data access layer and JMS API for the messaging requirement.  • Used JavaScript and JQuery for validating the input given to the user interface.  • Developed test cases and performed unit test using JUnit Framework.  • Design and development of many PL/SQL batches using Core JAVA with connectivity to Oracle for data maintenance and handling.  • Worked with NoSQL database Mongo DB and worked with it to perform many different operations.  • Test the API responses for the WCS changes deployed on continuous basis, validate the Green Box response data and Mongo DB data.  • Involved in creating user interfaces using JQuery.  • Designing and creating business rules using IBM ILOG Rules Engine.  • Used Cucumber to write test cases for new modules.  • Created automated test cases for the web application using Selenium.  • Used Maven to build and generate code analysis reports.  • Worked on development and operations to facilitate deployment of components over AWS using Jenkins, Fabric Tools.  • Designed and Developed SOA enterprise system using Oracle SOA  • Involving in Building the modules in Linux environment with Ant Script.  • Used JENKINS for continuous integration.  • Used JIRA for tracking bugs.    Environment: Java, J2EE, SPRING, Hibernate, Struts, WebLogic, Restful, JQuery, AJAX, Ext JS, JavaScript, JSP, JSTL, SERVLET, Oracle, CRUD, PL/SQL, JIRA, Angular, GWT, JDBC, AWS, Mongo DB, Backbone JS, Node JS, Adobe (CQ5), Bootstrap, Core Java, jBPM, NoSQL, UML, Eclipse, Junit, MAVEN, Shell Scripting, ILOG, Agile, SOA, JIRA, JENKINS, Selenium. Sr.UI Developer Deutsche Bank November 2012 to January 2014 Workflow & Document Management System will serve as a tool for automated control of electronic documents through their entire life cycle, from creation through archiving to reuse. The WDMS will aid to exert control over the production, storage, management, and distribution of electronic documents. This product mainly caters to get input from different corporate banking system process and disseminate to other system. The WDMS is flexible to integrate with other Software Systems. The system was designed to be modular and scalable in terms of number of users and number of documents stored    Responsibilities:  • Prepared documentation for some of the recurring defects and resolutions and business comments for those defects.  • Sprint planning sessions and participated in the daily Agile SCRUM meetings.  • Designed and implemented web module using SPRING MVC.  • Designed & Developed persistence service using Hibernate framework.  • Worked in team to develop high-level class diagrams and sequence diagrams and implement the same in Java/J2EE, SPRING and SOAP Web services.  • Developed web screens in JSP, JSTL, CSS and client side validation using JavaScript and JQuery.  • Used Struts validation and tiles framework in the presentation layer.  • Used Struts Tag Libraries to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Created action classes and session beans to process the requests from the user.  • Developed and used JSP custom tags in the web tier to dynamically generate web pages.  Worked with Struts (MVC Paradigm) components such as Action Mapping, Action class, Dispatch action class, Action Form bean.  • Used SPRING ORM module for integration with Hibernate for persistence layer.  • Implemented SPRING AOP in exception handling, which reduces the development time to handle the exceptions.  • Involved in consuming, producing SOAP based Web services using JAX-WS and tested the web services with SOAPUI.  • Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several design patterns such as Business Delegate, Singleton, and Data Access Object.  • Developed UML Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Used Eclipse as IDE for development and deployed application on WebLogic.  • Used JIRA for defect tracking and project management.  • Worked with production support team in debugging and fixing various production issues.  • Used STS (SPRING Tool Suite) as software development platform for developing the whole application.  • Used SVN for the version management and for version controlling software.  • Understanding the requirements given by the customer.  • Unit and integration test cases are being designed and developed using JUnit.  • Used Log4J utility to log error, info and debug messages.  • Tested Service and data access tier using JUnit in TDD methodology.  • Project builds and integration with Maven and Eclipse is used as IDE for the application development and integration of the frameworks.    Environment: Java/J2EE, JSP, Spring, Servlets, JDBC, Hibernate, Soap, SPRING, Struts, XML/XSL, DB2, JUnit, JSTL, Jira, Eclipse, SOAP Web Services, SOAP UI, AJAX-WS RAD, Log4j, SQL, Maven, Log4j, WebLogic. UI Developer American Modern Insurance Group - Cincinnati, OH November 2011 to October 2012 Commercial Risk Portal is comprehensive solution, which facilitates to evaluate 'RISK' involved in the Specialty insurance process. This portal takes help of multiple services to conclude and clears the applications approval process. BGCA is one such system, which verifies the back ground of the applications and the agent associated. Application Simplification is modernizing the information collection process.    Responsibilities:  • Developed Use Cases, Class Models and Object Oriented Specification using Rational Rose UML.  • Implemented the web tier using SPRING MVC.  • Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle including Requirement Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance.  • Developed JSP, HTML, XHTML, CSS3 pages for compact and modified views worked on responsive web design.  • Developed and tested the screens for compact and modified using chrome simulators.  • Wrote Code to interact with back-end JAVA, AJAX, JSON.  • Used AJAX with JQuery to parse JSON object to dynamically overlay contents on web pages.  • Used JSF components and custom styles to convert model output to a tabular schedule view for trainees and projection charts and interactive graphs for management.  • Created JSF backing beans, listeners, validators, ajax components to provide a wholesome and stable.  • Responsible for system analysis, design and development, which is built on top of Java J2EE architecture and SPRING MVC.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle using Agile Methodology.  • Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in SPRING framework using Dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IOC) using annotations.  • Developed DAO layer using Hibernate and SPRING.  • Used Java/J2EE Design Patterns such as DAO pattern, MVC pattern, singleton in the project extensively, which facilitates clean distribution of roles and responsibilities across various layers of processing.  • Developed Scripts for UNIX platform deployment.  • Involved in File Manipulation, consuming and developing RESTful Web Service using SPRING MVC and Hibernate.  • Implemented Maven Script to create JAR, WAR, EAR dependency JARS and deploy the entire project onto the WebSphere Application Server.  • Used Oracle SQL developer for the writing queries or procedures in SQL.  • Participated in the production support and maintenance of the project.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4J and fixed the problems.  • Used CVS for version control system.  • Used JBoss as the Application Server.  • Used Log4J for logging the user events.  • Used JUnit for the unit testing of various modules.    Environment: Java/J2EE, Eclipse, JSP, SOAP, RESTful, JMS, AJAX, JSON, SPRING, Hibernate, XML, XSLT, HTML, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, Tomcat, IBM WebSphere, Oracle SQL Developer, Maven, Agile scrum, Integration tool, Log4J, GIT, JUnit. Web Developer United Telecom Ltd - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh September 2010 to October 2011 This is a project where we will try to Interop from One Application to the Application. Here we will have used many service calls to get the details of the customers having different accounts and for the Accounts holding different customers and launching the required application by passing the required parameters.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering and understanding the system requirements by interacting with clients.  • Designed and developed user interfaces using Spring Framework, Struts2, MVC framework, JSP, HTML, CSS.  • Used Oracle service bus for Content-Based and Header-Based Routing.  • Involved in coding front end using Struts2 framework concepts like Action Classes, validation.xml, Action Form Beans, struts-config.xml, Action Mapping, form Action Form, request HttpServletRequest, response HttpServletResponse.  • Performed client side user validations using JavaScript, JQuery.  • Implemented OSS for activities like ordering and tracking network components (including IP addresses), usage and traffic patterns, billing and reporting.  • Developed Session Bean to encapsulate the business logic and Model and DAO classes using Hibernate.  • Developed Java classes to simulate Web Services client and configurations for the application.  • Interpreted and manipulated spring and hibernate configure files.  • Developed Message Driven Beans for send asynchronous notification messages.  • Designed and developed numerous Session Beans and deployed on WebLogic Application web Server.  • Used JMS for sending asynchronous data between the different session beans.  • Strong implementations of data persistency using Hibernate and Spring Framework.  • Wrote stored procedures, complex queries using PL/SQL to extract data from the database, delete data and reload data on Oracle DB.  • Wrote Test Cases for Functional Testing using JUnit and TestNG.  • Used CVS for version control and inter-connected with other developers using the same platform.  • Extensively used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Developed Ant scripts for build deployment.  • Used Multithreading for situations to avoid freezing of GUI where one thread can run GUI code while other thread can complete DB or Network job in background without freezing application.  • Deployed the entire application on WebLogic10 Application Server.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4J and fixed the problems.  • Debugged the code using Java debugger and Eclipse and used exception, condition and other break points.  • Involved in installation of oracle client, troubleshoot and establish the connection to oracle database.  • Providing estimates for the changes based on the business and functional requirements.  • Preparation of the high level & detail level technical design documents to implement the changes.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Struts2, Spring Framework, Hibernate, Oracle, SQL Developer, HTML, JSP, web services JAX-WS, JAX-RS, AJAX, JMS, Eclipse Juno, Web Logic, Application Server, CVS, Log4J, Junit, Test NG ANT, SOA tool, bus tester Java Developer Info Vision Tech - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh August 2008 to September 2010 Passkey is a web application, which manages corporate shipping accounts that allows business customers to register their company for back-office shipments. Application can have an administrator type of user who can create sub users and manage their shipping categories like international, domestic, and various other types of shipments by controlling their permissions.    Responsibilities:  • Understanding existing Business Model and Customer Requirements with the help of the business requirement document.  • Responsible for developing the presentation layer using JSP, HTML, CSS, JQuery.  • Created and maintained the framework and layout of each portal with Cascading Style Sheets (CSS)  • Coded JavaScript for page functionality and Pop up Screens and created drop down menus on web pages and display part of a web page upon user request.  • Developed the tax payments transaction processing system and Pay Sure Module for maintaining the Cheque Issue Data.  • Developed and designed XML Schemas to transport and store data. XML was used to simplify data and allow for Platform Changes, as well as making data more available across the applications distributed platforms.  • Set up the development environment in WebSphere Application Developer (WSAD)  • Created deployed and build scripts using ANT tool.  • Develop interactive user interface using struts and tag libraries.  • Used JBOSS Application Server to deploy the build.  • Implemented Struts MVC architecture by creating Model, View and Controller classes.  • Implemented Struts Validation framework to validate the customer data.  • Involved in designing Schema, stored procedures, primary/foreign key constraints in SQL Server database. Write SQL queries to interact with the database.  • Implement logging mechanism using STRUTS.  • Unit and integration testing.    Environments: Java, HTML, CSS, WSAD, Struts, Validation Framework, SQL, SQL Server, iSeries, JBoss, Java script, JDBC, SQL, XHTML, XML, XSLT, Apache ANT. Education Bachelor's Skills UI, Front End, Javascript, Front-End, React Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages JDK 1.5, 1.6, 1.7, C, SQL, PL/SQL  Platforms Windows 2003, 2008 Server, Linux, Unix  Java Design Patterns  MVC, Business Delegate, DAO, DTO, Composite View, Singleton, Front Controller Factory, Abstract Factory, Service Locator, Observer, Iterator, Session Façade, Decorator, Adapter and Strategy    Java Core Memory Management, Thread Classes, Exception Handling and Collection APIs  Build Tools Apache, ANT, Gradle &Maven  IDE& Reporting Tools Eclipse, NetBeans, IntelliJ, JBuilder 2005, 2006  Java Message Service MQ, IBM MQ, Active MQ  J2EE MVC Frameworks Struts 1.1 and 2, SPRING 2.5, 3.0  Databases Oracle, MY SQL, DB2, MongoDB and Cassandra  Database Tools SQL Developer for Oracle, Connect/J for MySQL, IBM DB2  Application Servers Web Logic, WebSphere, Jboss and Apache Tomcat  Web Technologies HTML, HTML5, DHTML, CSS, Java Script, XML, SOAP, XSL, XSLT, XHTML, JavaScript, JSON, AJAX.  ORM Frameworks Hibernate 3.0, JPA  JavaScript libraries jQuery, Angular JS, Backbone JS, React JS, Node JS Ext JS, Bootstrap.  Version Control SVN (Apache Subversion), CVS (Concurrent Versions System), Team Foundation Server and GIT  Middleware Technologies EJB, JNDI, JMS ( Java Message Service) and SOA  Web Services JAX-RPC, JAX-WS and JAX-RS  Design Methodologies Rational Unified Process, Agile, Scrum, Test Driven Development, Rapid Application Development  Continuous Integration Jenkins, Quick Build, Bamboo  Testing Junit, Selenium, QC, TEST NG, Mockito  Logging Tools Log4j, slf4j