Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java developer | Problem solver | Project finisher | Lifelong learner Phoenix, AZ Systems-minded, highly-organized software developer building upon a foundation in mechanical engineering and mathematics education and 3+ years experience in Java and C development. Fueled by a deep desire to solve difficult problems with clean, maintainable code. Thrive in dynamic, collaborative teams that passionately pursue technical excellence. Work Experience Java Developer Immersive program at GCU May 2019 to Present • Four semesters (16 credit-hours) core Java object-oriented programming emphasizing database applications (Sept 2019 expected)  • Developed  Java banking application with object-oriented class structures and MVC design pattern using Eclipse / Maven, including JUnit tests, JavaDocs, and CRUD database functions using SQL through JDBC  • Created a  Java vending machine management system with an agile team using scrum by developing user stories, planning sprints, managing task backlog, and running daily stand-ups  • Automated modem testing with C programs that reduced test time by 50%  • Wrote numerous C programs to simulate dynamic systems and acquire data from electronic devices  • Familiar technologies: Eclipse, Maven, git, GitHub, SQL, JDBC, Hibernate, REST, AWS, Spring, JUnit, SDLC, data structures, algorithms, encryption Mathematics Educator Great Hearts Academies & Scottsdale Unified July 2005 to May 2019 Fulfillment of a long-term aspiration to be a math teacher. Grew to be recognized for extreme organization, clarity, and passion.  • Created open-source curricula spanning Algebra 1 through Calculus 2 that saved new teachers countless hours of preparation  • Designed the school master schedule by solving dozens of logic conflicts and wrote unit-test code in Excel VBA to identify conflicts before deployment  • Organized and led groups of 70+ students to Washington D.C., including budgeting, solving logistics problems, and communicating with students and families  • Mentored math teachers with formal and informal observations, including one who became a master teacher  • Taught 7-week mini-courses in C programming to high school seniors    Employment History  • Master Teacher of Mathematics, Great Hearts Academies, Phoenix, AZ (2010 - 2013 and 2015 - 2019)  • Mathematics Teacher, Great Hearts Academies, Phoenix, AZ (2008 - 2010)  • Mathematics Teacher, Scottsdale Unified School District, Scottsdale, AZ (2006 - 2008) Mechanical Engineering Various December 1993 to July 2015 Skilled in technical problem solving, process improvement, and risk reduction during new product development and across the entire product lifecycle.  • Co-led a team that minimized brightness variation for automotive EL lamps resulting in zero customer complaints  • Solved a chronic problem of connector latches interfering with ribbon cables in relay assemblies that prevented a line shutdown  • Created a unique stiffener that solved shock-induced PCB cracking that enabled flight qualification on schedule  • Programmed a machine to dial a pager to alert operators when it went down that increased uptime by 30% for a constraint process    Six Sigma Master Black Belt:  • Led a corporate-level team of black belts that completed projects across the company netting >$1M savings over 3 years  • Solved numerous quality problems before, during, and after product launches that led to increased yield and happier customers    Modem Test Programmer:  • Automated final testing of satellite modems by writing and deploying C programs that reduced testing time by >50% and increased test accuracy  • Developed a deeper level of C knowledge by learning on my own and collaborating with others    Employment History  • Manufacturing Engineer, Schweitzer Engineering Laboratory, Pullman, WA (2013 - 2015)  • Statistician, Intel Corporation, Chandler, AZ (2005 - 2006)  • Six Sigma Master Black Belt, Rogers Corporation, Chandler, AZ (1999 - 2005)  • Mechanical Engineer, Orbital Sciences Corporation, Chandler, AZ (1998 - 1999)  • Process Engineer, W.L. Gore and Associates, Phoenix, AZ (1994 - 1998)  • Automated Test Programmer, EF Data, Tempe, AZ (1993 - 1994) Education CERTIFICATE in JAVA PROGRAMMING (Sept 2019) Grand Canyon University - Phoenix, AZ May 2019 to September 2019 ADVANCED GRADUATE CERTIFICATE in STATISTICS Rochester Institute of Technology M.S. in MECHANICAL ENGINEERING Texas A&M University - College Station, TX B.S.E. in MECHANICAL ENGINEERING Arizona State University - Tempe, AZ Skills Java (2 years), C (2 years), Python (Less than 1 year), Javascript (Less than 1 year), Excel (10+ years), Minitab (5 years), JMP (2 years), Six Sigma Black Belt (3 years), Hibernate (Less than 1 year), Spring (Less than 1 year), JSP (Less than 1 year), J2Ee, Java J2Ee, MVC, Core Java, Rest Links https://roychancellor.me https://linkedin.com/in/roychancellor https://github.com/roychancellor?tab=repositories Patents Test cell for evaluating phosphor (#7238535) 2007-07 An test cell is adapted for both making and testing samples. The cell includes a bottom plate and a top plate having concentric apertures defining a central test cavity. A post attached to the bottom plate closes off the bottom of the test cavity. A slide closes off the top of the test cavity. The top of the post is spaced slightly from the underside of the slide to define a test cavity of substantially uniform thickness. The test cavity is filled with phosphor suspended in uncured resin, closed, and the resin is cured. Once cured, the sample is stable, although delicate, and can be re-measured several times with reproducible results. The measurement takes place in the cell, using a thin film of oil for wetting surfaces. Publications Detecting Parameter Changes Using Experimental Nonlinear Dynamics and Chaos https://vibrationacoustics.asmedigitalcollection.asme.org/article.aspx?articleid=1469768 1996-07 A method of detecting parameter changes using analytical and experimental nonlinear dynamics and chaos is applied to a piecewise-linear oscillator. Experimental data show the chaotic nature of the system through phase portraits, Poincaré maps, frequency spectra and bifurcation diagrams. Unstable periodic orbits were extracted from each chaotic time series obtained from the system with six different parameter values. Movement of the unstable periodic orbits in phase space is used to detect parameter changes in the system.