Java SDET and Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> SDET and <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java SDET and Developer - Nintendo of America Boston, MA • 8 years of extensive experience in object-oriented design/analysis, Java development, web services for service-oriented architecture, and data modeling, skilled at progressing from problem statement to well-documented designs and code. Work Experience Java SDET and Developer Nintendo of America - Redmond, WA February 2017 to Present Description:  The Nintendo of America is a subsidiary of Nintendo Co.Ltd. It is Japanese multinational consumer electronics and Software Company, it is the world's largest video game company by revenue. The Nintendo of America handles the sales, marketing and Advertising of Nintendo.  Responsibilities  • Participated in all phases of the SDLC including technical requirements, design, development and unit testing.  • Used JSP's HTML on front end, Servlets as Front Controllers and JavaScript and JQuery for client-side validations.  • Used Angular JS in dynamic binding of HTML web pages using the MVC architecture.  • Created controller Servlets for handling HTTP requests from JSP pages.  • Developed few web pages using JSP, JSTL, HTML, CSS, Java script.  • Worked on AngularJS framework to develop the page and make it responsive  • Developed RESTfulWeb Services for the project as per the business requirements.  • Involved in developing XML Schemas and used JAXB for marshalling/un-marshalling.  • Implemented MVC architecture by using Spring framework.  • Implemented the Spring dependency injection of the Database helper instance to the action objects.  • Used JDBC to invoke Stored Procedures and database connectivity to Oracle database.  • All the coding and testing was performed using IntelliJ.  • Maintained the existing code based developed in Spring and Hibernate framework by incorporating new features and fixing bugs.  • Involved in fixing bugs and unit testing with test cases using JUnit framework  • Used automated scripts and performed functionality testing during the various phases of the application development using Selenium  • Created Automation script using Selenium WebDriver. Executed scripts on different browser and different platform.  • Developed stored procedures and triggers using PL/SQL to calculate and update the tables to implement business logic using Oracle database.  • Involved in writing Hibernate Query Language (HQL) for persistence layer.  • Used Maven to build, run and create JARs and WAR files among other uses.  • Used automated scripts and performed functionality testing during the various phases of the application development using Selenium  • Created Automation script using Selenium WebDriver. Executed scripts on different browser and different platform.  • Worked with Jenkins in continuous Integration by using GIT tool and executed projects in Apache Maven and Ant.  • Used Log4j for application logging and debugging.  • Involve in Technology & Performance Optimization and Error Reduction Procedures.  • Maintain and enhance existing client applications and internal systems to improve integration.  • Wrote Test Cases which adhere to a Test-Driven Development(TDD) Pattern.  • JUnit was used for unit testing and implementing Test Driven Development (TDD) methodology.  • Involved in planning process of iterations under the Agile Scrum methodology    Environment:  Java 1.7/J2EE, Spring3.0, Hibernate, Oracle, AngularJS, HTML, XML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Log4J, Restful Web Services, Maven. Java Application Developer Capital One Investing LLC - Seattle, WA June 2015 to January 2017 Description:  The Capital One Investing LLC is a subsidiary of Capital One Financial Corporation. Itis an Online Brokerage investment firm with its headquarters in Seattle, WA. Capital One Investing is a full-service brokerage offering a range of investment services including advised accounts and fully self-directed digital accounts. Capital One Investing allows investors to easily buy stocks, options, mutual funds, and exchange-traded funds as partial shares via the Share Builder Investment Plan, Portfolio Builder and Fund Evaluator, a digital tool to help investors pick which funds sold on Capital One's online platform are best for them    Responsibilities:  • Participated in all phases of the SDLC including technical requirements, design, development, deployment and testing.  • Worked in Agile methodology environment including Test Driven Development with Continuous Integration/Delivery.  • Interpret written business requirements and technical specification documents  • Migrated several Java Batch Applications and Services from the On-premise infrastructure to AWScloud.  • Migrated the Java REST API builton the Drop Wizard framework to AWS cloud platform.  • Wrote the Gradle scripts to build the Applications and used AntHill Pro to get the build of the application and Deploy the application in AWS QA environment.  • Made code changes to upgrade the existing Database connections to SSL and upgraded the existing TLS versions for the Applications while migrating them to AWS cloud platforms.  • Worked on the latest AWS products like Amazon EC2, AmazonSimple Storage Service(S3), Amazon Route 53, Amazon EBS, Elastic Load Balancing, AWS Cloud formation, AWS VPC, Security Groups.  • Developed theAWS Cloud formation templates and Parameter files for various environments such as QA, Dev, INT, Pre-prod and Prod as per the AWS designdocument for various applications.  • Created the AWS environments in QA, Dev, INT, Pre-prod and Production and Deployed the application in those environments.  • Used Amazon Cloud watch to monitor environment for operational and performance metrics during load testing.  • Written CHEF cookbooks andCHEF Environment files for automating the deployment in the AWS Cloud infrastructure.  • We used GIT for versioning and maintaining the Application related source code and as well as the AWS Cloud and CHEFinfrastructure code for various environments.  • Used Splunk to capture the application logs and Chef logs from the AWS EC2 instances to verify and validate the deployments.  • Run the Splunk queries to obtain the application logs and analyzed and Monitored the application logs for the Applications running on the AWS cloud platform.  • Created the Encrypted and Unencrypted CHEF data bags for managing the Application specific property values in the configuration files.  • Run the Jenkins jobs to Upload the necessary CHEF artifacts into enterprise CHEF server.  • Used Aqua Data Studio to connect to the Sybase database and run the required stored Procedures and modify the data in tables by Using SQL Statements.  • Performed End to End testing in all the environments after migrating the application from On-Perm to AWS Cloud platform.  • Involved in planning the Rehydration for the AMI's which are deployed in the production and performed the Rehydration to the Production AWS instances.  • Involved in Cutover planning and validation, testing for the Batch applications, Services and API's which are migrated to the AWS Cloud platform.    Environment  Java 1.8/J2EE, Log4J, Restful Web Services, Gradle, AWS Cloud platform, Splunk, CHEF, Aqua Data studio, Swagger, Eclipse, Sybase Database. JAVA/ J2EE Developer NAIC - Kansas City, MO January 2014 to May 2015 Description:  The National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) is the U.S. standard-setting and regulatory support organization created and represented by the chief insurance regulators from the 50 states, the District of Columbia and five U.S. territories.  Responsibilities:  • Worked in Agile methodology environment including Test Driven Development with Continuous Integration/Delivery.  • Interpret written business requirements and technical specification documents  • Responsible for Requirements capturing & Preparing Software Requirement Specification.  • Involved in Design and Development using J2EE/Hibernate, XML, JSP, Spring MVCModel Framework and Oracle.  • Used AngularJS framework to bind HTML to java script objects for single page application  • Familiar with concepts of Directives, Data-Binding and Dependency Injection in Angular JS.  • Developed RESTful Web Services for the project as per the business requirements.  • Worked on Data Management classes, using Hibernate to access the Oracle Database  • Implemented the application using Spring Framework which is based on MVC design pattern.  • Used spring framework for Dependency injection.  • Used Cucumber for Behavior Driven Testing.  • Implemented persistence layer using Hibernate framework.  • Have proficiency in using JSPs and Servlets for view and controlling parts of application.  • Used Hibernate framework for DAO layer to access the Oracle database Used JavaScript for client-side validations.  • Used XSLT for transforming the XML documents in to HTML documents.  • Building the application using Maven scripts.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4j and fixed the problems.  • Written Test Cases for Unit Level Testing using JUnit.  • Create test framework using Selenium WebDriver, Java with BDD, Cucumber framework and Gherkins syntax for further test creation and execution  • Involved in the Unit Testing and defect resolution as and when they are reported.  • Designing & creating reusable custom data visualization components/widgets.  • Integrate the developed Applications with Enterprise Security Environments  • Involve in Technology & Performance Optimization and Error Reduction Procedures  • Developed application vastly using NO-SQL to achieve non-relational mapping and to make horizontally scalable.  • Deployed the application on JBOSS.  • Used Mongo DB for the JSON documents retrieval.  • Data was stored in Mongo DB with elastic search.  • Design and implement effective User Interfaces that are intuitive and easy to use.  • Maintain and enhance existing client applications and internal systems to improve integration  • Worked on SVN for version control.  Environment:  Java 1.6/J2EE, Oracle 11g, HTML, Maven, Eclipse 4, Unix, Web logic Application Server 11, Hibernate 3.0, Spring 3.0, LOG4J, SVN. Java/J2EE Developer American Express - Phoenix, AZ April 2012 to December 2013 Description: American Express is an American multinational financial services organization which is primarily known for providing financial services such as Credit card, Charge card and traveler's cheque.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in creating the workflow framework by using threads concept to execute spring beans sequentially, parallel and parallel for each.  • Responsible for design and implementation of various modules of the application using Spring-Hibernate architecture.  • Responsible for implementing the transaction management in the application by applying Spring AOP methodology.  • Designed and developed UI with AJAX, HTML, XHTML, DHTML and java script for more interactive web pages.  • Involved in creating the Xml schemas and WSDL documents by understanding the business requirements and the application as web service component by using JAX-WS.  • Published and consumed SOAP Web Services for transferring data between different applications.  • Provided security to Web Service using trusted certificates and created the DAO classes using Spring DAO module.  • Built standalone applications with Spring Boot.  • Created stored procedures and functions to process the data from Mainframe Systems.  • Implemented Spring ORM wiring with Hibernate provided access to Oracle 9i RDBMS.  • Hibernate Query Language (HQL) was used to perform various queries in the database.  • Wrote build and deployed scripts using Shell and ANT scripts and involved in performance analysis of the application and fixed problems/suggest solutions.  • JUnit was used for unit testing and implementing Test Driven Development (TDD) methodology.  • Used Eclipse IDE for developing code modules in the development environment.  • Implemented the logging mechanism using log4j framework.  • Used SVN version control to track and maintain the different version of the project.  • Worked on a variety of defects to stabilize application.  Environment: Java 1.5 /J2EE, spring 2.5, Hibernate, Oracle 9i, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JQuery, JSP, Servlets, Maven, CSS, Web Logic, JUnit, Eclipse, Log4j, SVN Java/J2EE Developer Citizens Bank - Chicago, IL May 2010 to March 2012 Worked as a Java Developer for a Web based online application for Citizens National Bank, this online application offers Banking and Investment services for high net-worth customers. The project involved working on commercial web applications which included developing robust, reusable services in context of overall middleware strategy.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented User Interface in Model-View-Controller Architecture, which accomplishes a tight and neat co-ordination of JSP and Custom Taglibs.  • Implemented Dependency Injection (IOC) feature of spring framework to inject beans into User Interface.  • Developed Server-side components using Spring IOC, Hibernate and design patterns such as Business Delegate, session facade, Service locator, DAO's, DTO's.  • Developed and utilized J2EE Services and JMS components for message communication in WebLogic Application Server.  • Involved in the development of the application framework. Designed and developed various Business Delegates and EJB (Stateless Session Beans) to implement the business functionality and security to the system.  • Implemented data access mapping and framework using Hibernate ORM tool. Used DAO pattern to implement data access framework.  • Developed reusable and interoperable Web service modules based on SOA architecture using JAX-WS and Apache AXIS 2.0.  • Developed XML Schema, XSLT and WSDL using XMLSPY.  • Developed application vastly using NO-SQL to achieve non-relational mapping and to make horizontally scalable  • Worked on XPath and XQuery for transforming inbound calls and making outbound calls to business services.  • Configured development environment using WebLogicapplication server for developer's integration testing.  • Involved in integrating JMS providers with J2EE application servers by using J2EE Connecting Architecture.  • Developed Unit testing framework driven by Test First methodology, to develop test cases for business layer and User Interface using mock objects.  Environment: Java, WebLogic, Eclipse, Hibernate, Spring, EJB, JMS, Java Script, AJAX, Web Services, AXIS, JAXRPC, Maven, Clear Case, JUnit, Oracle, Sun Solaris. Jr. JAVA Developer Smart Software technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2009 to April 2010 Responsibilities:  • Analyze the prerequisites in the view of business data and user necessities.  • Implemented the modules utilizingModel-View-Controller (MVC) design pattern.  • Develop GUI related changes utilizing JSP, HTML and client validations using Java script.  • Developed Java beans, helper classes and Servlets for communicating with UI written in JSP.  • Wrote a controller Servlet that dispatched requests to appropriate classes.  • Developed Dispatch Action classes to define several business methods.  • Developed Servlet and Java Server Pages (JSP), to route the submittals to the EJB components and render-retrieved information using session façade.  • Developed value object mainly used to wrap the data and pass across the layers.  • Developed business logic utilizingStateless session beans for calculating asset depreciation on Straight Line and written down value approaches.  • Designed database Queries for updating, insertion and retrieval of asset information and rates.  • Created java classes to interact with database using JDBC.  • Used JMeter for Database Backend Testing with JDBC & ODBC Connection.    Environment: Java 1.4, Servlets, JSP, EJB2.0, J2EE 1.4, STRUTS, XML, XSLT, Java Script, Oracle 8iMs Visio, Eclipse, JDBC, CVS, Windows 2003 Server. Education BACHELORS in ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS ENGINEERING KL UNIVERSITY Skills J2EE (9 years), JAVA (9 years), TESTING (9 years), ECLIPSE (8 years), WEB SERVICES (7 years), Java J2Ee, Spring, Soap, Rest, Hibernate Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages JDK 1.5,1.6,1.7, 1.8, C, SQL, PL/SQL  Platforms Windows 2003, 2008 Server, Linux, Unix, Amazon Web Services.  Java Core Memory Management, Thread Classes, Exception Handling and Collection APIs  UML Tools MS Visio, Rational Rose Enterprise  IDE & Reporting Tools Eclipse, NetBeans, IntelliJ, JBuilder 2005, 2006  J2EE MVC Frameworks Struts 1.1 and 2, Spring 2.5, 3.0, JSF 1.2  Databases MySQL 5.1, Oracle 11g, 10g, 9i, 8i, MS SQL Server 2008, DB2.  Database Tools SQL Developer for Oracle  Application Servers IBM Web Sphere, Web Logic, JBoss, Apache Tomcat.  Web Technologies HTML, DHTML, CSS, Java Script, XML, SOAP, XSL, XSLT, XHTML.AWS  ORM Frameworks Hibernate 3.0, JPA.  Version Control Rational Clear Case, SVN, CVS, GitHub.  Middleware Technologies EJB 2.1, 3.0, JNDI, JMS ( Java Message Service).  Design Methodologies Rational Unified Process, Agile, Scrum, Test Driven Development, Rapid Application Development.  Testing JUnit 4.1, J-Mock, Easy Mock  Logging Tools Log4j.  Continuous Integration Hudson, Jenkins.