Senior Java Developer Senior <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Java Developer - IHG, Dunwoody Atlanta, GA • Java Developer with around 10 years of progressive experience in developing multi-tier Web based Client Server application.  • Strong experience in frameworks Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Struts, JSF, GWT.  • Experience in Agile software development and Scrum  • Hands-on experience on Java, J2EE frameworks, SOAP and RESTful web services (JAX -RS and JAX- WS) and technologies like HTML, XML, JSON, and CSS.  • Experience in multitude of Web based Client Server application  • Fundamental understanding of trending web technologies like JavaScript, MVC framework along with ORM (Hibernate), SQL queries and stored procedures.  • Worked in client accounts of international repute and hence has exposure in different domains of industry. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Senior Java Developer IHG, Dunwoody July 2018 to Present Project - Revenue Management  IHG's Offline Reservation Processor (ORP) pushes the Guest Name Records (GNRs) into the Operational Data Store (ODS). The application tracks reservations made in GRS. The Offline Reservation Core application receives a near real-time feed of the reservations from GRS via the MQ Series. It processes the reservations so that the reservation information can be used in analytics and customer support.    Responsibilities:  • Drive best practice, quality and consistency within design and development phases.  • Conduct software analysis, programming, testing and debugging.  • Identifying production and non-production application issues.  • Provide warranty support of developed code in production for the prescribed period.  • Perform root cause analysis and suggest solutions for the recurring issue.  • Collaborate with customers, technical and functional leads from associated projects.  • Recommend changes to improve established java application processes.  • Support formal testing and resolve test defects.  • Participate in estimate and planning phase.    Environment: Java (JDK 1.8), J2EE, Spring Boot, Hibernate, Web services (SOAP and REST), Oracle SQL Developer, Eclipse, Maven, JavaScript, Git, AGILE - Scrum methodology, Rally (CA Agile Central), Jenkins, Postman. Senior Java Developer Ford Credit, Dearborn March 2016 to July 2018 Project - CSF and GRC - RISK IT  CSF Manager - Application developed for Command Center to capture CSFs and KPIs in reference to various domains and Business Functions present in FORD Credit.  GRC - Governance, Risk and Compliance is a tool that provides applications teams with a dashboard to define and enforce accountability for risk and compliance issues.    Responsibilities:  • Coordinate with the key stakeholders to understand and review business requirements to ensure alignment with customer.  • Designed and developed the presentation layer which includes the development of standards - browser compliant - user interactive web pages using JavaScript, JSPs, JSTL and HTML.  • Designed and developed the business layer which includes the implementation of Spring Boot framework to handle backend functionality.  • Used Hibernate ORM solution to map Java objects to SQL server database.  • Used Git as version control system.  • Responsible for creating Restful Web services with JAX-RS.  • Involved in documentation, review, analysis and fixed post production issues.  • Participated in the daily stand up meetings as part of AGILE Scrum process for reporting the day to day developments of the work done.  • Worked on bug fixing and enhancements on change requests.  • Lead the technical team and mentored other developers.    Environment: Java(JDK 1.8), J2EE, Spring Boot, Hibernate ,Rest Web services, SQL server 2008, Eclipse, Maven, JavaScript, Git, AGILE - Scrum methodology, Rally (CA Agile Central) Technical Lead Daimler Trucks, Portland February 2015 to March 2016 Project - Retail Sales, Truck Invoice Adjustment, Virtual Order Processing    Retail Sales provide a mechanism to check current inventory by dealers and Corporate and to identify various features along with any additional discounts. Truck Invoice Adjustment provides calculation and adjustment for trucks like Invoice adjustment. Virtual Order Processing creates virtual order for trucks before final delivery.    Responsibilities:  • Coordinated with the Client to understand business needs and gathered requirements.  • All the functionality is implemented using Spring IO. Implemented Java EE components using Spring MVC, Struts 2.0, Spring IOC and Spring security modules.  • Used SVN as version control system.  • Stored, retrieved and manipulated data for analysis of system capabilities. Used Hibernate as ORM framework for converting data between relational databases and Java.  • Used JavaScript for Client Side validation in JSP pages.  • Performed unit testing using JUNIT and functional testing.  • Participated in Onsite offshore meetings, coordinated with offshore team members for each assigned modules and been a liaison between offshore and onsite.  • Provided 24 * 7 production support for the database and application issues.    Environment: Java(JDK 1.8), J2EE, JavaScript, J Query, HTML, XML, Spring MVC, Struts, Hibernate, Portal development, Web Services, Oracle , SQL Server 2008, Web sphere, Web Logic, Apache Tomcat, RAD, Eclipse, SVN, RTC, Ajax, Log4j, Agile Methodology. Project Technical Lead Fed Ex, Collierville August 2013 to February 2015 ECAM  This project provides the ability to transact with all business units using the Enterprise Account Number (EAN). This application helps the user in implementing business rules for maintenance of enterprise profiles.    Responsibilities:  • Coordinate with the Clients to understand business needs and gather requirements  • Lead and Coordinate with offshore team and help them understand the requirements  • Coordinate with the different project teams to successfully deliver the solution to the end client  • Maintaining and Tracking the various project tasks through the Project Plan Document and going through different stages of SDLC.  • Design and develop the application using best practices  • Doing QC before handing over the project to the client. Worked on AGILE methodology.  • Provide Support during production deployment.    Environment: JQuery, JavaScript, JMVC, Eclipse, J2EE, Struts, Hibernate, Junit, Log4J, Apache Tomcat services, SVN, QC, Rest Web services, AGILE methodology. Senior Java Developer Juice Plus+ April 2013 to June 2013 NSA, the maker of Juice Plus+ (branded line of dietary supplements containing concentrated fruit and vegetables juice extracts fortified with added vitamins and nutrients). Juice Plus+, Tower Garden, and Children Health Study are the web services through which user can buy products online, get the knowledge about products.  Responsibilities:  • Extensively used the Spring framework implemented upon the MVC design pattern  • Developed the view components using JSPs and form beans  • Developed various Spring framework classes for interfacing with the business logic, and Form beans for presenting the data to JSPs.  • Unit testing and Code Integration of the application.    Environment: J2EE, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Jquery, Servlets, JSP, EJB, Sql developer, XML, My Eclipse, Apache Tomcat server, Perforce, TFS, QAS proweb, log4j, AGILE Senior J2EE Developer Fed Ex Services, Memphis July 2011 to June 2012 EAS Centralized Log Administration project allow Enterprise Authentication (EAS) team to process various logs from EAS production servers and push to EAS Audit Databases for retention as per Infosec standards.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various stages of SDLC.  • Development and enhancement of application using Struts framework.  • Developed JAXB batch files for marshaling and un-marshaling of XML schema and Java classes.  • Querying the database using SQL queries  • Performed Unit testing    Environment: Java/J2EE, JSP, HTML, CSS, XML, JQUERY, GWT Framework, Web logic ,Apache Tomcat, , Sql Developer, Oracle , JUnit 4.0,CVS, log4j. Senior Software Engineer Accenture - IN November 2009 to June 2011 AMS is tool made by Accenture for Marketing Analysis. It is used by clients such as AT&T, and Walmart. The tool is used to estimate the contribution over an investment made on a time period. AMS is Web- Based Application. It involved the enhancement in business logic as per changing requirements.    Responsibilities:  • Developed the application using OOPs and J2EE framework.  • Querying the database using SQL queries  • Deploying the application using Tomcat Server.  • Performing code integration and Unit testing    Environment: Java/J2EE, JSP, HTML, CSS, XML, JQUERY, Spring Framework 3.0,Spring Bacth 2.0, LDAP, Web logic ,Apache Tomcat, , Spring Sql Developer. STAA and ANDES Development / Technical Associate TechMahindra Ltd July 2007 to October 2009 ANDES  Andes are mainly fulfilling the needs of services provided by BTGS (British Telecom Global Services). BTGS is a NETWORK SERVICE PROVIDER providing global connectivity to multi-site organizations addressing all their business communication needs. BTGS also provide VPN and IP services.    STAA (Strategic Transaction Automation Architecture) Development  The STAA platform provides clients with a means of accessing the BESs via re-usable mid-tier services with business logic (STAA Business Logic) as well as direct access to BES services where no business logic is required (STAA Direct Access) in the mid-tier    Responsibilities:  • Developing the application using Struts framework.  • Querying the database using SQL queries  • Preparing Interface specification design, High level design and Unit test plan documents.  • Performing Unit testing and sanity testing.    Environment: Java, Jsp, Servlets, Struts, Hibernate, JBuilder, Oracle9i, Sql Developer, EJB, CSS. Education Bachelor's Skills ECLIPSE, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, JAVABEANS, JAXP, JNDI, jQuery, JSF, JSP, SERVLETS, STRUTS, DATABASE, JDBC, PL/SQL, SQL, Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, Java J2Ee, Spring Boot (2 years), Git (2 years), Jenkins (2 years), Rally (2 years) Additional Information Skills and Expertise:    Programming Languages: Java, JavaScript, SQL, PL/SQL,  Java/J2EE Technologies: J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JavaBeans, Struts, MVC,  Hibernate, Log4j, XML, JAXP, DOM, JNDI, JSF, Custom  Tags, JUNIT  Web Technologies: JSON, HTML, DHTML, Java Script, CSS, AJAX, XML, RESTFul Web  Services, JQuery.  Frameworks and IDE's: Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Struts 2.0, Hibernate, AJAX, Spring Core. Eclipse, Log4j, Junit.  Web/Application Servers: Web Logic, Apache Tomcat, WebSphere.  Database Environments: PL/SQL, My SQL.  Internet Protocols: HTTP, SOAP.  Version Control Tools: Git.  Methodologies: Agile.