Java / UI Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> / UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Fullstack Developer Raleigh, NC • More than 7+ years of experience in designing, implementing and testing full scale UI web applications with Java as the middle-tier across various platforms.  • Good experience in developing and updating a web page using PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, JavaScript and JQuery across various browsers and thereby achieving cross browser compatibility.  • Experience in developing web applications for .Net platforms.  • Created Angular2 Components, Services to communicate perform operations in UI.  • Used Promises and Observables when required for Asyn/Sync services.  • Used Angular2 routers, Can Activate and Can Deactivate routes to navigate from each tile/page.  • Experience in building single page applications using JavaScript frameworks like Angular Js, Angular2.  • Involved in migrating the whole code base of Angular 1.4 to Angular2.  • Experience in making responsive web designs using either only HTML 5 or CSS, by using CSS frameworks like Bootstrap.  • Expertise in using all the new features in HTML5 and CSS3 in creating the markup and the styling of the pages.  • Expertise using JavaScript and JQuery either for manipulating the DOM or for AJAX operations.  • Sound Understanding and good Experience of using the various JavaScript concepts like Prototypes, Closures, and Object oriented features, Promises etc.  • Worked extensively in HTML 5, JavaScript, DOM, PHP, JQuery, AJAX, XML, Backbone.js, Node.js Handlebars, Marionette, and Angular JS.  • Strong HTML5/CSS3 skills with solid knowledge of usability, accessibility and resolved cross browser issues  • Good experience in using the latest JavaScript framework AngularJS and worked with all its latest concepts like services, custom directives, promises, factory, providers etc.  • Experience in various modules of Spring framework like Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring Batch, Spring ORM, Transaction Management, Spring Security  • Expertise in implementing the persistence logic using JDBC, JPA, Spring JDBC, Hibernate 2.x/3.x/4.x/5.x and iBATIS framework.  • Highly skilled in tuning techniques at Server level, Web and Database levels, PHP code level and Html, CSS, JS level to deliver high performance websites capable of serving high workloads in a low budget infrastructure.  • Extensively worked on JSF Framework integrated with EJB 3.0, Hibernate 4 and MyBatis 3 for both projects.  • Extensively worked on JSF (Primefaces) framework and MyBatis 3 recently.  • Mid-level experience and thorough understating of Alfresco (DMS, ECM and BPM)  • Specifically involved implementing the Graphical User Interfaces by using JSF, AngularJS, HTML5/HTML, CSS3, Bootstrap, NojeJS, AJAX, Java Script, JSON, and jQuery.  • Experience in using JBoss EAP 6.x/7.0, Tomcat Web Server, Web Logic, Web Sphere.  • Experience with Design Patterns like MVC, Singleton, Composite Pattern, Decorator Pattern (JSF Navigation), Observer Pattern (JSF), Business Delegate and so forth  • Experience in integrating Apache Shiro ( Java Security Framework) with the applications for authentication and authorization.  • Developed User Interfaces using JSF (Primefaces), AngularJS, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery and CSS. Expertise in implementation of Windows Communication Foundation(WCF), Web API, and WebServices  • Industry experience developing Single Page Application AngularJS projects with Web API  • Used jQuery, AJAX to call Web API service methods  • Used AngularJS HTTP (post and get) to retrieve data through Web API from entity frame work.  • Very good experience with multiple servers like IBM WebSphere, IBM WebSphere ESB (Enterprise Service Bus), WebLogic Server, Apache Tomcat, Jboss.  • Expertise in using debugging tools like Firebug and built in IDE debuggers for troubleshooting existing code.  • Experienced in using the version controls like SVN, TFS and GIT effectively.  • Good experience in using various project management tools like JIRA and VersionOne mainly for agile project management.  • Experience in implementing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using Web Services (SOAP & Restful) and java XML parsers such as SAX and DOM.  • Involved in implementation of Restful web service APIs using AJAX calls and JSON as data exchanging tool.  • Expertise in Application development using various frameworks such as Spring Framework 3.0, Spring MVC, Hibernate 3.0 ORM with UI technologies like JSP, Apache Velocity Engine, validation plug-ins like Validator Framework.  • Good experience with UML design and working with the Class diagrams, Use case diagrams etc.  • Good knowledge of working with Core Java, Spring and Hibernate.  • Develop CI/CD system with Jenkins on Kubernetes container environment, utilizing Kubernetes and Docker for runtime environment for the CI/CD system to build and test and deploy.  • Experience in the use of various relational databases like Oracle, DB2, SQL Server and NoSQL databases like MongoDB, Cassandra.  • Experience in developing Web Services to expose useful functionality to web users through SOAP and RESTful web service calls.  • Worked with all kinds of data formats like XML, JSON, flat files for exchange of data.  • Good experience in using front end build tools like Grunt, Gulp and backend Java's MAVEN.  • Experienced in all phases of usability testing including user profiles and personals, task analysis, contextual research, test moderation, and reporting using Karma and Jasmine.  • Worked on Jasmine and Chutzpah for my unit testing as we develop using TDD approach in Visual Studio/Xamarin environment.  • Experienced working in both AGILE and SDLC based development environment and participating in SCRUM sessions.  • Experience in making the web applications accessibility complaint like ADA complaint using Aria attributes on HTML tags.  • Good experience in generating Tabular, Matrix, Drill Through, Parameterized reports and Drill Down reports using SQL Server reporting Services (SSRS) and Crystal Reports  • Collaborating with lending and compliance team members to develop needed Crystal Reports for a mortgage compliance project, HMDA reporting.  • A special project that was assigned to this department for an immediate need to create report in Crystal Report format.  • Helped to extract data from a 3rd party software named EasyLender that stored in MS Access database and create report using Crystal Report then export data to .xml format  • Good experience in using content management systems (CMS) tools like Wordpress.  • Strong problem-solving, organizing, communication and planning skills with ability to work in team environment.  • Strong communication and interpersonal skills and the ability to interact effectively with people at multiple levels of the organization. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java / UI Developer Veritiv Corporation - Fairfield, OH February 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in analysis, detail design, development, bug fixing and enhancement in Agile methodology. Involved in daily scrum and sprint planning meetings.  • Developed and Configured the Spring Configuration files for business and the persistence layers.  • Created Single Page Application with loading multiple views using route services and adding more user experience to make it more dynamic by using Angular JS framework.  • Implemented with Angular JS using its advantage including two-way data binding and templates.  • Experience in developing web applications for .Net platforms.  • Developed Graphical User Interfaces using HTML5, CSS3, bootstrap, AngularJSand JSP's for user interaction.  • Worked on responsiveness of the application and explored the fixed width and fluid layouts using the Twitter Bootstrap.  • Using AngularJS created custom directives for data manipulations and to display data in company standard format in UI.  • Rewrote one of the key pages, which allows users to manage their content. The task involved investigation of the AngularJS UI-Grid as well as refactoring of several backend methods.  • Built AngularJS modules, controllers, pop up modals, and file uploaders.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript code to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  • Implemented Restful web services to perform some business activities.  • Expertly used Angular 2 Directives, Pipes, Event Binding, Data Binding, Interpolation, Injection etc., for building the GUI.  • Created Angular2 Components, Services to communicate perform operations in UI.  • Used Promises and Observables when required for Asyn/Sync services.  • Used Angular2 routers, CanActivate and CanDeactivate routes to navigate from each tile/page.  • Involved in migrating the whole code base of Angular 1.4 to Angular2.  • Used PHP as programing language and CodeIgniter framework for the development of a corporative intranet.  • Used PHP as programing language and CodeIgniter framework for the development of a web application for manage import and export of merchandise (Declamer).  • Supported and maintenanse of the web aplicaction for travel document, using php and Codeigniter Framework.  • Implemented features like logging, user session validation using Spring-AOP module.  • Used Spring framework to implement middle tier with Spring IOC.  • Created platform as infrastructure with AWS (EC2, RDS, S3, and ELB) used Jenkins to run the automated deployments.  • Developed the Entire server side application using NodeJS.  • Involved in writing SQL Queries for Database CRUD Operations and verified the Data with the Production, Acceptance and Integration.  • Consuming the SOAP web services exposed by paymetric (third party vendor) for credit card transactions using JAX-WS.  • Experience in developing SOAP and RESTful Web services  • Experience in development and implementation of Restful Web APIs, and exposes endpoints using HTTP verbs like GET, PUT, POST and DELETE  • Involved in Integration of apache CXF with Spring, worked on implementing Restful-Services for different modules  • Extensively worked on JSF (Primefaces) framework and MyBatis 3 recently.  • Mid-level experience and thorough understating of Alfresco (DMS, ECM and BPM)  • Specifically involved implementing the Graphical User Interfaces by using JSF, AngularJS, HTML5/HTML, CSS3, Bootstrap, NojeJS, AJAX, Java Script, JSON, and jQuery.  • Experience in using JBoss EAP 6.x/7.0, Tomcat Web Server, Web Logic, Web Sphere.  • Experience with Design Patterns like MVC, Singleton, Composite Pattern, Decorator Pattern (JSF Navigation), Observer Pattern (JSF), Business Delegate and so forth  • Implemented AJAX functionality to speed up web application.  • Used CSS preprocessor SASS to make CSS more efficient.  • Established Database connectivity and configured server in NodeJS.  • Added dynamic functionality to the application by implementing JQuery.  • Used Node JS for server side rendering. Implemented modules into Node JS to integrate with designs and requirements.  • Involved in developing the persistence layer using Hibernate framework.  • Extensively used MVC, DAO, Factory and Singleton design patterns.  • Developed Web API using NodeJS and hosted on multiple load balanced API instances.  • Created and utilized Web API methods for database operations(CURD) through Entity Framework  • Implemented CURD operations with Web API technology as a service layer  • Used jQuery, AJAX to call Web API service methods  • Used AngularJS HTTP(post and get) to retrieve data through Web API from entity frame work.  • Extensively used CSS 3 and HTML 5, Less in the portal to support animations, audio and video.  • Enhanced content meaning by using HTML5 semantic elements for page layout  • Outputs in compatible format using HTMl5 semantic tags.  • Participated in development of a well responsive single page application using ReactJS framework and JavaScript in conjunction with HTML5, CSS3 standards, with front end UI team.  • Implemented SOAP based web services by using various API like Axis 2, Apache CXF, JAX-WS Strong knowledge in using WSDL and UDDI.  • Replaced existed Angular JS code with Angular JS code, which decreased number of lines of code for a web application.  • Created popup forms using Bootstrap version 3.0.0 Models, Angular 2 Models and AngularJS Controllers.  • Experience in Single Page Application (SPA) using AngularJS, created Multiple & Nested Views, Routing, Controllers, Services and Custom Directives  • Used system js /webpack / gulp for packaging the angular 2 application.  • Implemented the logging mechanism using log4j framework.  • GitHub has been used as a Version Controlling System.  • Extensively worked in Beta, RC-5, RC-6, and Final Versions of Angular 2.  • Developed JUnit test cases for Persistence layer and Business layer to perform the unit level testing.  • Experienced in all phases of usability testing including user profiles and personals, task analysis, contextual research, test moderation, and reporting using Karma and Jasmine.  • Worked on Jasmine and Chutzpah for my unit testing as we develop using TDD approach in Visual Studio/Xamarin environment.  • Used dynamic data connections to create reports using Business View in Crystal Reports.  • Worked on migration of Database views.  • Prepared Functional Design Specification Documents for the crystal reports.  • Resolved user, database and crystal reports related issues.  • Worked on the enhancements in the crystal reports as per the user needs and business  • Used Maven for building entire application and deploy them on Oracle WebLogic server.    Environment: Java 1.7, JDBC, J2EE, PHP, Spring 4.0, Hibernate 4.3, .NET, WEB API, JSF 2.0, Jasmine, NodeJS, Angular2, Rest Web Service, XML, XSLT, XSD, Restful, Oracle WebLogic Server12.1.3, TML5, CSS3, SASS, Node JS, JavaScript, AngularJS, Ajax, JQuery, UML, Rational Rose, Eclipse 4.5, GitHub, Oracle 11g, Maven, Visio, Log4j, EC2, RDS, S3, ELB, Junit. Java/Angular JS Developer First Data - Hagerstown, MD December 2015 to January 2018 Responsibilities:  • Actively participated in Object Oriented Analysis & Design sessions of the Project, which is based on MVC Architecture using Spring Framework.  • Followed the Agile Scrum software development methodology.  • Responsible for implementing the business requirements using Spring MVCFramework.  • Responsible for design and implementation of various modules of the application using Struts-Spring-Hibernate architecture.  • Implemented different design patterns using libraries like Backbone.js, Marionette.js, and Require.js  • Used PHP as programing language and a customized framework bases on zend framework for the implementation of the dynamic content of a document manager where I develop the user groups module, document version control, rule management and category management.  • Experience in developing web applications for .Net platforms.  • Worked extensively parsing the xml messages from XMPP server in a client-server model and modeling swing components behavior with listeners on TRS dashboard.  • Used Structs Framework in the application, which is based on MVC design pattern  • Implemented features like logging, user session validation using Spring-AOP module.  • Redesigned the portal, admin screens and menus using JSP, JQuery, AJAX, and AngularJS.  • Implemented the application modules using Spring Core layer (IOC), Spring Security, Spring AOP, Spring ORM, Spring Batch, Spring Transaction Management in order to develop the application.  • Extensive usage of Bootstrap and LESS CSS for Responsive design.  • Developed dynamic web pages using HTML/HTML5 (Used HTML5 for audio and video playback), CSS/CSS3, JQuery, Bootstrap, Less, CSS3 and Sublime Text Editor.  • Used Backbone, Marionette's MVC pattern, implemented views and controllers to provide different layouts like kanban lanes, table grids, carousel navigation etc.  • Created a simple customer management web application using Maven as project management tool, Struts as web framework, and Hibernate as database ORM framework.  • Experience in developing Web Services to expose useful functionality to web users through SOAP and RESTful web service calls.  • Involved in Integration of apache CXF with Spring, worked on implementing Restful-Services for different modules  • Experience in developing single page applications (SPA) using Angular JS, using various angular modules like UI-router.  • Using AngularJS created custom directives for data manipulations and to display data in company standard format in UI.  • Rewrote one of the key pages, which allows users to manage their content. The task involved investigation of the AngularJS UI-Grid as well as refactoring of several backend methods.  • Built AngularJS modules, controllers, pop up modals, and file uploaders.  • Used Struts framework along with JSP, HTML 5, CSS, Angular JS and JavaScript to construct the dynamic web pages (presentation layer) for the application.  • Extensively worked on JSF Framework integrated with EJB 3.0, Hibernate 4 and MyBatis 3 for both projects.  • Extensively worked on JSF (Primefaces) framework and MyBatis 3 recently.  • Mid-level experience and thorough understating of Alfresco (DMS, ECM and BPM)  • Specifically involved implementing the Graphical User Interfaces by using JSF, AngularJS, HTML5/HTML, CSS3, Bootstrap, NojeJS, AJAX, Java Script, JSON, and jQuery.  • Experience in using JBoss EAP 6.x/7.0, Tomcat Web Server, Web Logic, Web Sphere.  • Experience with Design Patterns like MVC, Singleton, Composite Pattern, Decorator Pattern (JSF Navigation), Observer Pattern (JSF), Business Delegate and so forth  • Experience in integrating Apache Shiro ( Java Security Framework) with the applications for authentication and authorization.  • Developed User Interfaces using JSF (Primefaces), AngularJS, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery and CSS. Expertise in implementation of Windows Communication Foundation(WCF), Web API, and WebServices  • Worked with NoSQL Databases like Apache Cassandra, Mongo DB.  • Implemented Junit test cases for all the modules developed to ensure complete code coverage.  • Converted the raw JavaScript application to AngularJS, Node, and MongoDB  • Defined new validations through Angular.JS for the form field validation implemented through HTML5.  • Created Angular2 Components, Services to communicate perform operations in UI.  • Used jQuery, AJAX to call Web API service methods  • Used AngularJS HTTP (post and get) to retrieve data through Web API from entity frame work.  • Used Promises and Observables when required for Asyn/Sync services.  • Used Angular2 routers, CanActivate and CanDeactivate routes to navigate from each tile/page.  • Involved in migrating the whole code base of Angular 1.4 to Angular2.  • Developed Rest API end points using REST-easy libraries and exposed them using Swagger-UI.  • Created and utilized Web API methods for database operations(CURD) through Entity Framework  • Implemented CURD operations with Web API technology as a service layer  • PHP was used as programming language and MySQL as database.  • Hands-on experience in development of microservices and deploying in Docker.  • Used Gradle for build framework and Jenkins for continuous build system.  • Design and implementation of SOA architecture using Jboss Fuse ESB, MQ  • Created applications, connection pools, deployment of JSPs, Servlets, and EJBs in Web Sphere.  • Implemented Spring ORM wiring with Hibernate provided access to Oracle 11i RDBMS.  • Wrote Jasmine unit tests using Karma to verify AngularJS modules and JavaScript utility routines.  • Developed AngularJS unit test cases using Jasmine and Karma.  • Experienced in all phases of usability testing including user profiles and personals, task analysis, contextual research, test moderation, and reporting using Karma and Jasmine.  • Developed complex reports that involved multiple data providers, cross tabs, bar charts, pie charts, complex variables and calculation contexts in the Crystal report 2011 environment.  • Worked on Database Expert, Section Expert, and Select Expert to develop the reports and used the Sub reports and used various customised formulas to create critical reports in Crystal Reports for Enterprise.  • To keep tract of issues and tasks on individuals, used JIRA ticketing system.  • Involved in preparing the documentation and logic flow charts of the process.    Environment: Java, spring, JavaScript, PHP, HTML, Angular JS, .NET, Angular2, Marionette.js, Jasmine, Restful, JSF 2.0, CSS, JQuery, HTML5, Jenkins, Dreamweaver, LESS, Handlebars.js,Hibernate, Struts, Web Services (SOAP, WSDL), XMPP, JUnit, XML, Maven. Java Full Stack Developer Reliant Global Corporation - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2011 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  • Front-end development for web / mobile solution using JavaScript, JQuery, CSS3, HTML5 and AngularJS, with PHP in the backend.  • Used Spring MVC framework to develop the application and its architecture.  • Used spring dependency injection to inject all the required dependency in application.  • Being in project I have developed screens, Controller classes, business services and DAO layer respective to the module assigned to me.  • Developed Graphical User Interfaces using HTML 5, CSS, bootstrap and JSP's for user interaction.  • Implemented SOAP and RESTful web services in java  • Integrated with Backend code Java, Restful Web Services, View Models for single page applications using Ajax  • Developed webpages using UI frameworks bootstrap, Angular JS.  • Used JQuery for creating various widgets, data manipulation, data traversing, form validations, create the content on the fly depend on the user request, implementing AJAX features for the application.  • Developing client side validation code using JavaScript and JQuery.  • Customized AngularJS filters in several locations to get the required output.  • Created XHTML Pages with CSS and the Box Model.  • Bootstrap Modals are used to display information.  • Created set of classes using DAO pattern to decouple the business logic and data.  • Implemented Hibernate in the data access object layer to access and update information in the Oracle Database.  • Used various Core Java concepts such as Multi-Threading, Exception Handling, Collection APIs to implement various features and enhancements.  • Interfaced with the Oracle back-end database using Hibernate Framework and XML config files.  • Created DHTML pages, used JavaScript for client-side validations and AJAX, AngularJS to create interactive front-end GUI.  • Consumed Web Services for transferring data between different applications.  • Involved in coding, maintaining, and administering Servlets and JSP components to be deployed on a WebLogic Application server and Apache Tomcat application server.  • Wrote PL/SQL queries, stored procedures, and triggers to perform back-end database operations.  • PHP was used as programming language and MySQL as database.  • Built scripts using Maven to build the J2EE application.  • Used Eclipse IDE for developing code modules in the development environment.  • Performed connectivity with Oracle database using JDBC.  • Implemented the logging mechanism using Log4j framework.  • Implemented and consumed REST web services.  • Used SVN version control to track and maintain the different version of the application.    Environment: Java/J2EE 1.5, JSP 1.2, Servlets, PHP, Spring 3.0, Hibernate 3.0, WebLogic Application Server, XML Web service, Oracle 10g, HTML , DHTML, CSS, Angular JS, bootstrap, JQuery 1.6, RESTful, XML, XSLT, Eclipse IDE 3.6, AJAX, JavaScript, Windows XP, JUnit3.8, Log4j, SVN, Maven. Junior Java Developer Getcet Knowledge Systems Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2009 to July 2011 Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing the application using Java/J2EE platform. Implemented the Model View Control (MVC) structure using Struts.  • Responsible to enhance the Portal UI using HTML, Java Script, XML, JSP, Java, CSS as per the requirements and providing the client side Java script validations.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection.  • Used Hibernate as Persistence framework mapping the ORM objects to table using Hibernate annotations.  • Responsible to write the different service classes and utility API, which will be used across the framework.  • Used Axis to implementing Web Services for integration of different systems.  • Developed Web services component using XML, WSDL, and SOAP with DOM parser to transfer and transform data between applications.  • Exposed various capabilities as Web Services using SOAP/WSDL.  • Used SOAP UI for testing the Web services by sending an SOAP request.  • Used AJAX framework for server communication and seamless user experience.  • Created test framework on Selenium and executed Web testing in Chrome, IE and Mozilla through Web driver.  • Used client side Java scripting: JQUERY for designing TABS and DIALOGBOX.  • Created UNIX shell scripts to automate the build process, to perform regular jobs like file transfers between different hosts.  • Responsible for front-end development using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX as well as back end support using PHP and SQL.  • Designed and developed the dynamic and user-friendly front-end website using jQuery UI.  • Custom programming and web application developed in Joomla.  • Used PHP to display the data fetched from the database.  • Used Log4j for the logging the output to the files.  • Design and promote Enterprise Crystal Reports to the SAP Business Intelligence tool  • Various SQL, data mining and ad hoc reporting functions using Brio/Access/Crystal Reports  • Used JUnit for the unit testing of various modules.  • Involved in production support, monitoring server and error logs and Foreseeing the Potential Issues, and escalating to the higher levels.    Environment: Java 1.6, JSP, Servlets, PHP, Spring Framework 3.0, Spring IOC, Spring JDBC, Web Sphere,Oracle9i, XML, XPath API, UNIX, Selenium, Web Services, WSDL, SOAP, AJAX, CSS, ANT JavaScript, HTML, Visual Age2.0, Windows/NT, WebSphere2.5, SQL Server. Education Bachelor's Skills Ajax (10+ years), Java (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), jquery. (10+ years), logging (10+ years), Angular, Front End, UI, React, Front-End, HTML5, CSS3