Sr. Java/J2EE Developer/Architect Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Architect Sr. Java/J2EE Developer/Architect - Comcast West Chester, PA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java/J2EE Developer/Architect Comcast - West Chester, PA May 2016 to Present with Cloud Services Expertise    Projects:  Biller Event Platform (BEP):  Biller Event Platform allows consumer applications to receive real-time events from billers. The platform guarantees order of event delivery along with an "at-least once" message delivery paradigm. BEP interfaces with CSG billing systems to process change events as they are applied in the biller and to produce a common and enriched event output for subscribers who wish to consume those changes.    Eventing as a Service (EaaS):  EaaS is an eventing streaming pipeline that would enable consumers to get data from various sources and have their data sent to a destinations of their choice. During the transportation process, the consumer would also be able to apply filter rules and enrich the payload data. The producer will have the ability to create schemas with applied versioning and notify the consumers of their data specifications for consumption.    Back Office in a Box (BOB):  The Back Office in a Box project initiative is driven by the goal of Zero Impact Duration for applications. The frameworks provided as part of the BOB project should enable applications to follow the best practices for being cloud ready, data caching, continuous deployment, offline processing and monitoring.    Responsibilities:  • Performed system consolidation and re-architecture for future scale and extensibility.  • Performed impact assessment and implemented the change requests as per business requirements.  • Extensively used spring based frameworks and modules for the application development and integration.  • Converted the existing monolithic applications to Spring Boot Microservices and deployed onto Pivotal Cloud Foundry via PCF CLI and GoCD pipelines.  • Developed a Microservice to externalize the application properties and encryption using Spring Cloud Config.  • Integrated the Microservice application with ELK Stack (ElasticSearch, Logstash, Kibana)  • Implemented multi-threading feature in Microservices to improve the performance, and integrated with App Autoscaler service for the efficient utilization of Cloud Foundry resources.  • Created LaaS ELK (ElasticSearch, Logstash, Kibana) logging cluster and integrated with Microservices deployed on Cloud Foundry, configured various dashboards to monitor the logs and events traffic.  • Created build, deployment, test, release pipelines using GoCD open-source CICD tool.  • Created multiple GSLB endpoints for various Microservices using the newly build GSLBaaS.  • Developed a message-driven Microservice using Spring Cloud Stream framework to read mediated JMS events from BEP application and publish to BOB Kafka topic.  • Performed Kafka & Zookeeper single node and cluster setup on both on-premise and Amazon AWS EC2.  • Used Yahoo Kafka Manager to manage Kafka setup, Rest-Proxy for RESTful interface to a Kafka cluster, Netflix Exhibitor supervisor for Zookeeper, LinkedIn Burrow for keeping track of consumer lag in Apache Kafka.  • Extensively used Docker to containerize various servers and tools like Zookeeper, Kafka, Yahoo Kafka Manager, Netflix Exhibitor, LinkedIn Burrow, Rest-Proxy, Elastic Search, Kabana and Logstash.  • Used Amazon S3 bucket to store the zookeeper cluster configuration file for Exhibitor setup via Docker and Ansible Playbook.  • Automated the Installation and Deployment of Docker containers for eventing platform, provisioned the creation of IAM roles, Security Groups, EC2 Instances, VPC, subnets on AWS via Ansible Playbooks.  • Created Projects, Inventories, Job Templates, Jobs, Teams and Credentials on Ansible Tower.  • Created AWS API gateways and integrated with AWS Lambda to publish (SNS), subscribe (SQS), filter messages, send notifications via SES and dynamoDB records updates.  • Extensively used CloudWatch for monitoring EC2 instances, custom metrics, application log files, resource utilization and system performance.  • Configured Route 53 traffic policies using various routing strategies.  • Used MongoDB to store the EaaS pipelines configuration information.  • Used Agile Methodology named SCRUM for all the work performed using tools JIRA and Rally.  • As part of Agile based development, coordinated and collaborated with project managers, product owner, scrum master, quality assurance team, development team and business. Provided programming estimates, identified potential problems and recommended alternative solutions.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring 4.x, Spring Boot 1.5.x, Spring Cloud Config, Spring Cloud Stream, Cloud Foundry, JMS, Apache Kafka, Apache Zookeeper, Yahoo Kafka Manager, Netflix Exhibitor, LinkedIn Burrow, Rest-Proxy, XML, JSON, Avro, Web Services (SOAP and RESTful), Hibernate, MongoDB, Oracle, Logback, JUnit4, TestNG, Git, Docker, Kubernetes, OpenGrok, AppDynamics, Amazon AWS, Gradle, Maven, Ansible Tower, ELK Stack, GoCD, Eclipse, IntelliJ IDEA, Agile, Windows 7 and Linux. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer/Architect Wells Fargo - Orlando, FL November 2014 to April 2016 with Big Data and Cloud Services Expertise    Project: Vault Foreign Exchange (VFX):  The VFX is Wells Fargo system of records for foreign currency. The system is used by Well Fargo to process foreign currency transactions through multiple distribution channels. Wells Fargo as a retailer sells directly to its customers (account holders) and others (non-account holder), as a wholesaler provides currency to co-banks and other partners for them to resell. Sometimes Wells Fargo sell directly to its partner's customers on its partner's behalf and subsequently pay the partner organization commission.    Responsibilities:  • Was responsible for analysis and design phase and interacting with business users for documenting systems requirements.  • Performed impact assessment and implemented the change requests as per business requirements.  • Developed the application using Spring MVC framework and integrated with various Spring modules like Core, Context, JDBC, ORM, OXM, JMS, Transactions, AOP.  • Integrated the application with Spring Security framework for authentication and authorization.  • Performed detailed codebase impact analysis and implemented database switch from MS SQLServer to Oracle on the Hibernate based application with minimal code changes.  • Adapted Core J2EE design pattern Data Access Object (DAO) to interface with persistence layer.  • Developed JAX-WS compliant (JSR) SOAP and RESTful web services using Apache CXF framework.  • Used Ehcache as a second level cache for application performance optimization.  • Integrated application with Oracle Coherence In-memory feature to publish and consume the data.  • Deployed Application on JBoss EAP server, managed the server cluster, monitored server logs, created connection pools and data sources.  • Upgraded the application to support TLS protocol to interface with one of the external TLS enabled application.  • Used Spring Boot for Spring application development for one of the business requirement.  • Improved application performances by optimizing application database queries using Toad.  • Performed data migration from Microsoft SQL Server to Oracle Database.  • Performed application server migration from WebLogic to JBoss EAP.  • Configured and Scheduled application Jobs in AutoSys. Job Scheduling Tool.  • Used DynaTrace Application Monitoring Tool to analyse application errors, identify performance hotspots, resolve database performance issues, configure business transactions and dashboards etc.  • Wrote JBoss CLI Client based Unix Shell Script to perform application servers' graceful rolling restart.  • Experience in writing complex SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions.  • Integrated the application with Amazon Kinesis, SNS, SQS and SES services for events process, publish, subscribe and notify.  • Extensively used CloundWatch for monitoring EC2 instances, custom metrics, application log files, resource utilization and system performance.  • Developed MapReduce pipelines using Apache Crunch Java library running on Spark and MapReduce.  • Performed MongoDB schema design, aggregation, performance management, replication, sharding, system sizing and tuning.  • Used Apache Spark clustered computing framework to process large-scale data interfaced with Amazon S3 for distributed storage system.  • Used Agile Methodology named SCRUM for all the work performed using tools JIRA.  • As part of Agile based development, coordinated and collaborated with project managers, product owner, scrum master, quality assurance team, development team and business. Provided programming estimates, identified potential problems and recommended alternative solutions.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring 4.x, Spring Boot 1.2.x, Spring Cloud, Hibernate 4.x, Cloudera, Unix Shell Script, XML, XSLT, JAXB, JSON, Web Services (SOAP and RESTful), slf4j, Log4J, DAO, JUnit4, TestNG, SVN, Amazon AWS, Apache Hadoop, HDFS, MapReduce, MRUnit, Cloudera Admin, WebLogic 10.x, JBoss EAP, Maven, Jenkins, DynaTrace, Oracle 11g, Eclipse, Agile, Windows 7 and Sun Solaris. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Bank of America - Charlotte, NC August 2010 to October 2014 with Big Data and Cloud Services Expertise    Worked on the following Projects:  Manhattan: Corporate Workplace Property Management System. Store Corporation Real Estate data such as leases, properties, expenses, generates invoice payments and records general ledger activity.  MyWork: Application used to enrol employees/contractors into the flexible MyWork Plan.  Virtual Premise: Provides the Transactions & Investments group with the technological capabilities needed to manage the Real Estate Transactions within the Bank of America portfolio.  Registration Annual Renewal (RAR): The RAR (Registration Annual Renewal) is a process whereby an FA elects to keep or term their state registration (s) based on the states their clients reside. In order to determine which State registration costs the Firm/FA will pay; pc's earned for each account are aggregated at the state level and shown to the individual making the selection. RAR uses a file from GPACS to determine the pc's by State: 12 month rolling pc's.    Responsibilities:  • Was responsible for analysis, design and interacting with business users for documenting systems requirements.  • Developed presentation layer using JSP, HTML, DHTML, and CSS and used JQuery for form validation.  • Developed the application using Adobe Flex UI, BlazeDS for remoting and messaging services integrated with Spring framework.  • Used Hibernate for object-relational mapping and for database operations in Oracle database.  • Adapted Core J2EE design pattern Data Access Object (DAO) to interface with persistence layer.  • Developed JAX-WS compliant SOAP and RESTful web services using Apache CXF framework.  • Extensively used MVC and DAO design patterns.  • Used Spring framework to provide IOC, MVC, AOP and ORM components.  • Used Spring Data programming model for MongoDB object-document support and data access.  • Used GemFire as a second level cache for application performance optimization.  • Deployed Application on WebLogic server, managed the server cluster, monitored server logs, created connection pools and data sources.  • Developed application using Node.js with MongoDB backend database, and performed the application deployment to Heroku using Eclipse IDE and version controlling using git.  • Was responsible for application performances by refactoring Java codebase.  • Wrote the application code and test cases using Scala.  • Experience in writing complex SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions.  • Performed impact assessment and implemented the change requests as per business requirements.  • Performed NO-SQL database schema design and data migration from Oracle database to MongoDB.  • Developed components for batch analytics using Hadoop MapReduce component and used MRUnit Java library to unit test MapReduce programs using Eclipse IDE.  • Used Apache Sqoop to transfer bulk data from relational databases (Oracle and MySQL) to HDFS.  • Used web-based Cloudera UI component to perform Administrative activities.  • Used ZooKeeper centralized service to maintaining configuration information.  • Extensively used CloundWatch for monitoring EC2 instances, custom metrics, application logs, resource utilization and system performance.  • Integrated the application with Amazon SNS, SQS and SES services, and performed EC2 instances setup.  • Extensively used CodeCommit, CodeDeploy and CodePipeline tools for source control and code deployment.  • Used Agile Methodology named SCRUM for all the work performed using VersionOne.  • As part of Agile based development, coordinated and collaborated with project managers, product owner, scrum master, quality assurance team, development team and business. Provided programming estimates, identified potential problems and recommended alternative solutions.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Cloudera, Unix Shell Script, XML, XSLT, JAXB, JSON, Web services (SOAP and RESTful), Log4J, Spring 3.0, Struts 2, DAO, Hibernate 3.0, JPA, Tiles, JUnit4, UML, Team Foundation Server, Apache Hadoop, HDFS, MapReduce, Sqoop, Hive, Oozie, Zookeeper, MRUnit, Cloudera Admin, WebLogic 10.x, Maven, Oracle 11g, MySQL, Eclipse 3.6, Agile, HP Quality Center, Windows 7 and Sun Solaris. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Bank of America - Charlotte, NC August 2009 to July 2010 Project: Rewards Management System, Hyderabad, India.  The Rewards Management System (RMS) is a web-based application used to manage and maintain the Employee data; Computation & Administration of the rewards in terms of Ratings, Promotions and bonus (variable, Long Term Cash, cash, stock, stock units) awards.    Responsibilities:  • Designed the application by implementing Struts MVC Framework.  • Adapted Core J2EE design pattern Data Access Object (DAO) to interface with persistence layer.  • Used Apache Tiles template composition framework to assemble and load the webpages during run time.  • Used Rational Rose tool to create various UML diagrams.  • Developed JAX-WS compliant web services using Apache CXF framework.  • Played key role in the database design and normalization.  • Used JUnit unit testing framework to perform unit testing on the application logic.  • Developed UNIX shell script to check the job running status and sending an email in case of job failure.  • Used JProfiler to find performance bottlenecks, pin down memory leaks and resolve threading issues.  • Used ClearCase for version management between various integration and development streams.    Environment: Java, J2EE, XML, XSLT, Stax Parser. Web Services (SOAP), JAXB, Log4j, Apache CXF, Struts 2, DAO, WebLogic 10.x, Oracle 10g, Eclipse 3.5, Rational ClearCase 7.1, Maven, Windows XP and Linux. Team Lead/ Java Developer United Stock Exchange - Mumbai, Maharashtra November 2008 to July 2009 Project: Market Surveillance System, Chennai, India  Market surveillance System helps the stock exchange system to spot adverse situations in the markets and aids in pursuing appropriate preventive actions to avoid abusive, manipulative, or illegal trading practices. It monitors the trading activity and alerts the Compliance departments to potential market abuse based on key market parameters like volatility and liquidity    Responsibilities:  • Designed the application using MVC design pattern based Struts Framework.  • Used DAO design pattern to interface with persistence layer.  • Used Java based Infrex rule engine to define the surveillance rules, packaging and deploying.  • Developed application dashboards using Ajax and JCharts to present metrics dynamically in graphs/chart form.  Deputed to Mumbai in 2009 for software implementation. Responsibilities during the deputation period include:  • Region setup for Software Installation  • Software build and deployment.  • Technical enhancements ( Email and SMS feature integration)  • Application / System Testing  • System stabilization and Defect Fixing  • End user support and Interaction with clients on functionality aspects.    Environment: Java, J2EE, XML, XSLT, DOM Parser. SMTP, SMS, Log4j, Struts 1.3, JDBC 3.0, WebSphere 7.0, Oracle 10g, Eclipse 3.3, Maven, Infrex 5.1 (RBE), TDD, Rational ClearCase 7.1, Windows XP and Sun Solaris. Team Lead/ Java Developer SECOM, SIX SIS SEGAInterSettle AG - Zurich, CH June 2006 to October 2008 Project: Registrar and Transfer Agent, and Depository Services, Chennai, India  The Registrar and Transfer Agent Services includes, maintaining data Depository Services to major number of companies in Switzerland. The Registrar and Transfer Agent services includes, maintaining master data of the Companies, Securities, Banks, Shareholders, Shareholder groups and maintaining shareholders positions. The depository Services includes the maintaining of the portfolio accounts of the depositors, positions trading, corporate actions, money payment through DTA and BESR payment systems.    Responsibilities:  • Designed the application using MVC design pattern based Struts Framework.  • Used Apache Tiles template composition framework to assemble and load the webpages during run time.  • Used DAO design pattern to interface with persistence layer.  • Developed complex Stored Procedures, triggers and packages using PL/SQL.  • Developed Servlets and EJBs to implement business logic and deployed on WebSphere Application Server.  • Created and configured Data Sources for database connectivity & JMS resources.  • Experience in software packaging and deployment in both windows and Solaris environments.  • Experience in working on Sun Solaris environment and debugging the application via access logs.  • Defined and packaged the payment rules using Infrex Java based rule engine.  • Co-ordinated with Business Analyst & QA during application development cycle.  • Contributed to all the phases of Software development life cycle including requirements analysis, high level design, detailed design, UMLs, data model design, development, testing, implementation and QA.    Deputed to Switzerland in 2007. My responsibilities during the deputation period includes:  • Interaction with clients on Usability aspects of the application.  • Business Requirements Analysis, Design, documentation and review.  • Requirement documents preparation, review with customer and sign- off.  Deputed to Switzerland in 2008. My responsibilities during the deputation period includes:  • Region setup, software build and deployment in production environment.  • Application module level and System level Testing.  • System performance monitoring and fine tuning the database queries.  • System stabilization and Defect Fixing, end user support and Interaction with clients on functionality aspects.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Servlets 2.5, JSP, HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax/jQuery, XML, XSLT, EJB, JMS, Log4j, Struts 1.3, DAO, WebSphere 6.0/6.1, Oracle, Eclipse 3.2, ClearCase, JUnit, Maven, HP Quality Center, Bugzilla, Infrex 5.1 Rule Base Engine, Windows XP and Sun Solaris. Java Developer Dubai International Financial Exchange - Dubai, AE February 2006 to May 2006 Project: Depository Services, Chennai, India  Dubai International Financial Exchange (DIFX) is a stock exchange in Dubai. DIFX provides clearing and settlement of script less and physical securities. This project is to enable online demat and remat services.  Responsibilities:  • Used JSF web application framework to develop the application.  • Developed a dynamic dashboard using Ajax to show the security holdings of the shareholders.  • Wrote SQL Queries and stored procedures as per the requirement.  • Responsible for performing design, code, test plan, test cases and test scenarios reviews.    Environment: Java, Servlets 2.5, JSP, HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, Log4J, JSF 1.1, JDBC 3.0, Apache Tomcat 5.5, MySQL, Eclipse 3.1, Ant, Windows XP and Sun Solaris. Java Developer Philippines Depository Trust Corporation - Manila October 2004 to January 2006 Project: Fees and Billing Systems, Chennai, India  Philippines Depository Trust Corporation is a depository Services corporation in derivatives segment in Philippines. This project is to enable online currency exchange transaction services and fee computation along with billing services.    Responsibilities:  • Used JSF web application framework to develop the application.  • Developed GUI related changes using JSP, HTML and client validations using Java script.  • Created Java classes to communicate with database using JDBC.  • Responsible for requirement Analysis, Design and module level documentation.  • Wrote SQL Queries and Triggers as per the requirement.  • Used Apache Log 4j Logging framework for logging debug and trace level log information.  Environment: Java, Servlets 2.5, JSP, HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, Log4j, JSF 1.1, JDBC 3.0, Apache Tomcat 5.5, DB2, Net Beans 4.0, Ant, Windows XP and Sun Solaris. Education Bachelor's Skills JAVA (10+ years), APACHE (10+ years), ECLIPSE (10+ years), J2EE (10+ years), ORACLE (10+ years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Programming Languages Java, Scala, SQL, PL/SQL  Web Technologies HTML, DHTML, CSS, AJAX/ jQuery, Node.js, XML, XSLT, XSD.  J2EE Technologies JSP 2.0, Servlets 2.5/3.0, JSTL 1.2, Custom Tags, Java Beans, JDBC 3.0, JNDI, Web Services (SOAP and RESTful), EJB, JMS.  Messaging Platforms Apache Kafka, Amazon Kinesis  Version Control Systems GitHub, SVN, IBM Rational ClearCase 7.1, Team Foundation Server, CVS.  Frameworks  JSF 1.1, Struts 1.x/2.x, Spring 3.x/4.x, Spring Boot1.2.x/1.5.x, Spring Data, Spring Cloud-Micro Services, Spring Cloud Config, Spring Cloud Stream, Hibernate 3.x/4.x, Log4j, slf4j, JAXB, Apache CXF, Infrex 5.1 (RBE)    Databases Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle, MySQL, DB2, MongoDB  Application/Web Server Apache Tomcat 5.x/7.x, WebSphere 6.0/6.1/7.0, WebLogic 10.x, JBoss EAP 6.2.4  Cloud Services Heroku, Amazon AWS, Pivotal Cloud Foundry  Cache Mechanism Ehcache, GemFire, Oracle Coherence  Scripting Languages Java Script, Unix Shell Script, Ansible  Design Methodologies and Tools  Design Patterns, Putty, MobaXterm, Git Bash, UML, Share point, Infrex 5.1 (RBE), HP Quality Centre v11, OpenGrok, Docker, Kubernetes, Bugzilla, JIRA, Rally, PlanningPoker, DynaTrace, AppDynamics.    IDEs Eclipse, Net Beans, Oracle TOAD, SQL Developer, SQL Server Management Studio, Soap UI, AnyPointStudio, Kafka Tool, Modelio  Operating System Windows XP/7, UNIX, Sun Solaris, Linux.  Built/Testing/Deployment Gradle/Maven/Ant/JUnit4/MRUnit/Jenkins/GoCD/AWS Development Tools.  Big Data Hadoop, HDFS, MapReduce, Sqoop, Hive, Oozie, Zookeeper, Spark, Crunch.  AWS Services  IAM, EC2, Lambda, S3, RDS, DynamoDB, VPC, CloudFront, Route53, API Gateway, DirectConnect, AWS Developer Tools, CloudWatch, CloudFormation, Kinesis, Cognito, EKS, SNS, SES, SQS.