Sr.AEM Developer Sr.AEM <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr.AEM Developer - OneBlood Champaign, IL, IL • Having 8+ years of total IT experience in the Web Applications Development and 4.2 years using AEM 5.6.1, AEM 6.0, AEM 6.1, AEM 6.2, AEM 6.3, HTML5, CSS (2/3), XHTML, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, AJAX, XML and JSON.  • Experience with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object-oriented programming, and agile methodologies.  • Proficient in developing web page quickly and effectively using, HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript and JQUERY and experience in making web page cross browser compatible.  • Have hands on experience in implementing templates, components and types for different types of layouts and user experiences.  • Have hands on experience in designing and developing Sling Servlets, OSGI components likes Schedulers, Event Listeners and Workflows and Components.  • Developed OSGI components to interact with databases like Oracle and preparing data objects.  • Developed OSGI components consuming third party Web Services and creating page node.  • Have written scripts using URL commands to automate daily and weekly activities and having experience in code building and installing tool using Apache Maven.  • Development experience in Enterprise Content Management applications, customizing Web publisher, WebTop, and Site Caching Services (SCS), Web Services.  • Proficient with integrating AEM/CQ5 with other products and vendors specifically targeting Social Integrations.  • Experience in Adobe Analytics (Site Catalyst), Adobe Target, Audience Manager and Google Analytics.  • Strong experience on all J2EE related technologies like Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JMS, JNDI, JAXP, EJB, etc.  • Expertise with AEM stack like OSGI, Sling, CRX, Felix, DAM.  • In-depth knowledge of J2EE stack, Servlets, MVC framework, Dependency injection, Annotations and SQL/PLSQL.  • Developed Project object models (POM) for applications to develop automation framework suite.  • Experienced in MSM (Multi Site Manager) created Blueprints &Live Copies and Internationalized components and dialogs.  • Experience in implementation & design of the web application development.  • Worked on Sling servlets to handle POST and GET requests.  • Good exposure to Maven, File Vault and cURL.  • Experienced in Testing and optimization using Adobe Target and integrating it with content manager and cross channel campaign manager as well.  • Expertise in creating User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and Interacting with Business Owners for validations.  • Worked with Agile Methodology (Scrum) and Web Services using Service Oriented Architecture.  • Excellent experience with source version control tools like Subversion SVN, TFS and CVS.  • Used Jmeter for performance testing and performed heap dump and thread dump analysis.  • Experience in integrating AEM with Adobe Target and Adobe Campaign.  • Expertise in analyzing the DOM Layout, Java Script functions, Cascading Styles cross-browser using Fire Bug, Developer Tool Bar.  • Experience with User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and Accessibility Testing.  • Strong problem-solving, organizing, communication and planning skills, with ability to work in team environment. Work Experience Sr.AEM Developer OneBlood - Rockledge, FL August 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Conducted detailed analysis of user requirements and formulated technical requirements.  • Developed Components and Templates using Adobe AEM 6.2 touch UI for supporting the different Webpages.  • Developing pages, templates, and efficient content models, security model's+ components as per the requirements with proper reusability and inheritance mechanisms offered in AEM.  • Developing Sling models for components to process the component data and pass it to the frontend.  • Creating responsive touch UI components using HTML(Sightly), Java, JavaScript, Angular and CSS as per the requirements.  • Using Angular for the development of components based on the requirement and making them author-able as well.  • Extensively worked on java classes, OSGI Services, servlets and sling models during the implementation components. Worked on OSGI configurations and workflows.  • Created users and user groups, giving appropriate permissions to them according to the environment. Created System Users to access the Resource Resolver in different services.  • Worked on Multi Site Manager (MSM) to develop live copy from blueprint.  • Developing components using i18n translations for the pages in Korean language.  • Taking care of the build and deployment process in the project and debugging production and dispatcher related issues with the DevOps team.  • Using CSS and Bootstrap to style the components and make responsive.  • Using Apache Sling, JCR API and HTL Use-API ( Java Use-API and JavaScript Use-API) while creating components and Java services.  • Consuming Restful web services to populate data in the components and updating the user information.  • Worked on creating the Sling servlets and OSGi services for the business logic to process the request.  • Designed DAM taxonomy and tagging for the website elements allowing to classify them by several different categorizations at the same time.  • Extensively worked on front end, business and persistence tier using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and jQuery.  • Gained good exposure on the dispatcher and caching strategies.  • Developed Workflows, Launchers, Servlets and OSGI Services according to the requirements.  • Created OSGI Configuration for environment and run modes specific configurations.  • Working in an Agile methodology with Git for version control and Jira for work tracking.  • Setup Jenkins a continuous integration tool for build and deployment process.  • Used JIRA as an issue tracking tool in the agile/scrum methodology.    Environment: AEM 6.2, Java, HTML, HTL, JavaScript, Angular, jQuery, CSS, Sling Models, \MSM, Bootstrap, ACS-Commons, DB2, Informix, Cassandra, Less Jenkins, Bitbucket, JIRA, Static Analysis software (SonarQube, Coverity) Sr.AEM Developer Spectrum Health - Grand Rapids, MI November 2016 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  • Installed and configured Adobe AEM6.3 version.  • Involved in content migration from AEM 6.2 to AEM 6.3.  • Created new components in Touch UI.  • Worked on Multi Site Manager (MSM) in AEM, enforcing a common base structure and common content across the website.  • Built dynamically generated dropdown lists using Ajax, JQuery and Angular JS.  • Installed and Configured AEM Authoring & Publishing Instance.  • Design and development of web pages using AEM, Slightly, HTL, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Ajax and JQuery.  • Worked on Tar Compaction and Indexing as part of application maintenance.  • Used Bootstrap CSS framework that helps in designing web applications.  • Adopted and utilized Agile Methodology as needed or requested.  • Worked on web services to consume the data from the application API's.  • Wrote custom code (scheduler with corn job) to create assets in DAM, workflows to approve/reject assets and assign tags.  • Responsible for writing build scripts using POM XML files, Maven and ANT scripts.  • Used Jenkins as build tool and used JIRA to track the bugs, issues and project management.  • Used Log4J for logging and tracing the messages.  • Extensively used AEM Tag Libraries in the components.  • Have a complete understanding of CRX repository and accessing the CRX content nodes by SQL Queries and XPath.  • Strong knowledge on AEM associated technologies like Sling, OSGI, Felix, CRX.  • Created client libraries at component level and global level (designs) for handling JavaScript and CSS.  • Implemented server side service components using Apache Felix framework and Apache Sling.  • Worked on creations of workflow models for publishing the pages from author to publish, process steps and User Administrations in AEM.  • Used Maven to build and generate code analysis reports.  • Involved in building, deploying the code and moving code to different environments.  • Utilized Angular JS framework to bind HTML template (views) to JavaScript objects (models).  • Built Angular JS framework including MVC architecture, different modules, specific controllers, templates, custom directives and custom filters.  • Involved in supporting the application post production and maintenance.  • Experience working in an agile environment, involved in daily standup meetings.    Environment: AEM 6.3, AEM DAM, Workflows, Apache Sling, MSM, CRXDE, CRX, JAVA, J2EE, AngularJS, OSGI, Mustache, GruntJS, AJAX, JSON, HTML5, CSS3, Phantom JS, Java Script, jQuery, Jenkins, Maven, SOAP UI, XPath, XML, LINUX, JSP, Web Services (SOAP, REST), Eclipse, GIT. Sr.AEM Developer CareSource - Dayton, OH January 2016 to October 2016 Responsibilities:  • Build websites and applications using AEM 6.1.  • Designed and build components, templates, dialogs, and workflows using the AEM architecture (Sling, CRX, OSGI, and JCR).  • Created Touch and Classic UIComponents in AEM using Sightly and JSP scripting language.  • Involved in building custom components, templates, widgets, dialog and design dialog boxes for components.  • Developed templates, ExtJS widgets, dialogs, design libraries using JQuery, Angular JS, backend bundles.  • Have exposure to Granite UI.  • Created responsive designs menus, filters using media queries and grids using bootstrap.  • Upgraded current CQ5.6 instance to AEM 6.1.  • Worked on the issues like Disable Targeting and JQuery versioning which usually arise when upgrading to AEM 6.1.  • Created custom loggers, services and configured services.  • Created custom segments for users to offer a more personalized site.  • Content personalization and MSM.  • Created a new repository for new AEM instances.  • Have been using DAM Assets, Package Manager, Package Share, Replication and other tools provided by CQ and AEM.  • Build new Jenkins Jobs for the new AEM instances.  • Trained new contractors on the use of CMS, utilizing GoToMeeting and Skype.    Environment: Adobe AEM 6.0/6.1, CRX, HTML/CSS, Sightly, JQuery, Jenkins, OSGi, Touch UI, Classic UI, Maven, Linux, Web Services, J2EE technologies, HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript,Angular Js, Node Js, Bootstrap3, AJAX, JSON, Java, SVN. AEM Java/J2EE Developer BCBS - Montpelier, VT July 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Experience developing UI, OSGI components in CQ 5.6.1.  • Learning the new platform for developing using AEM, JQuery, Ext JS and related APIs.  • Developed Components, customized library components, Templates, dialogs, widgets and developing UI using CQ 5.6.  • Working with Maven to build and generate the jar files to deploy in the Felix Console.  • Implemented CQ5 Preview Site for pre-publishing authored content to test the Prod Simulation.  • Developed workflow components related to digital assets upload workflow (documents and videos) as per the client requirements.  • Setup and configured Authoring and Publishing environments, replication agents, reverse replication agent,AEM dispatcher to cache rewrite rules for routing the calls to AEM , html and serve as the static pages from Apache.  • Experience Developing service in Events that gives JSON output for the events status & time  • Worked on Forms customization by developing the custom form fields, writing the custom constraints for form fields and specifying the global validation resource type at the form level.  • Design and development of web pages using JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Ajax and JQuery.  • Developed Adobe CQ5 templates and reusable components.  • Develop and write high level design with an emphasis on robust functionality and performance.  • Assign detailed design and coding work and facilitate reviews.  • Participated in requirement/status calls with clients.  • Converting business requirements to technical requirements.  • Coordinate code releases, data loads, deployments.  • Data from Sterling database is retrieved using RESTFUL service calls to Customer Order Management (COM) layer.  • Using JAX-RS specification for creating Restful services.  • Design user interface using html, JQuery and backbone.  • Used Maven to build and deploy jar files.  • Used GIT to review code and do a continuous integration.  • Manage any technical issues that arise during development.    Environment: Adobe AEM 5.6.1, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Ajax and jQuery, J2EE, , XL Deploy, Drone. Java/J2EE Developer Redlands, CA April 2012 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  • Closely worked with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules been built.  • Wrote application level code to perform client side validation using jQuery and JavaScript.  • Designed the front end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS.  • Using advanced level of JQUERY, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS and pure CSS layouts.  • Wrote JQUERY function while implementing various UI Screens across the whole web application (both consumer facing as well as internal application).  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Designed and developed intranet web applications using JavaScript and CSS.  • Interacted with java controllers (JQUERY, Ajax, JSON to write/read data from back end systems).  • Used SVN for version control and QC for defect tracking.  • Created Test Plans for Unit Testing and System Testing.  • Used Dreamweaver tool for developing Web Pages.  • Deployed Application on Tomcat Server.  • Developed user input forms using Angular JS.  • Discussed various ideas for the ongoing web sites regarding the page layout and creative design.  • Maintain, enhance, and recommend solutions that best suit business and technology needs from UI standpoint.  • Worked on Product Portfolio Management (PPM) System in Struts 1.5 and Hibernate 3.  • Involved extensively Test Driven Development - TDD practices and code refactoring.  • Creating cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  • Worked with QA team on daily basis in fixing the reported bugs/defects.  • Worked on cross browser compatibility issues and fix the bugs pertaining to various browsers.    Environment: JavaScript, XHTML, HTML 4.x, CSS2.x, jQuery, AJAX, Handlebars JSON, XML, SVN.Q, QC, REST, SOAP, Angular JS, Couchbase Struts and Hibernate. Java/J2EE Developer FIS, Menomonie Falls, WI March 2009 to February 2012 Responsibilities:  • Developed the Service layer and placed the required Web Services archive (. aar file) in Axis 2 WEB-INF Services Directory in the repository.  • Implemented object/relational persistence (Hibernate) for the domain model.  • Implemented the Web services and associated business modules integration.  • Worked on generating the web services classes by using Service Oriented Architecture SOA, WSDL and SOAP.  • Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural Pattern JSP, Servlets and Action classes.  • Specified the default initialization file is through the log4j.configuration system property and loaded the log4j.propertiesfrom Weblogic Class path.  • Used SOAP UI to test the different methods in the Web service.  • Effective usage of J2EE Design Patterns Namely Session Facade, Factory Method, Command and Singleton to develop various base framework components in the application.  • Involved in Units integration, bug fixing, and User acceptance testing with test cases.  • Used Stateless Session Bean to implement Business Process and interact with DA layer for DB Access.  • Developed the presentation layer using JSP, HTML, XHTML, CSS and client validations using JavaScript.  • Used Spring MVC framework for configuring the application.  • Used SQL and PL/SQL Programming extensively to talk to Oracle database.  • Maven was used as a build tool. Also, worked in an agile work environment.  • Used Log4j for logging errors, messages and performance logs.  • Involved in writing the training material for the users    Environment: Java, Servlets, JSP, Struts 2.2.x, SOAP Web Services, JDBC, HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, Eclipse, JBoss 5.1, Hibernate 3.6.1, JUnit, MySQL 5.0. Education Bachelor's Skills HTML (9 years), JAVASCRIPT (9 years), JAVA (9 years), jQuery (6 years), CSS (9 years), XML, SQL, Linux, SQL Server Additional Information Technical Skills:    Content Management AEM 5.6.1,6.x, Apache Jackrabbit and oak, Apache Sling AEM 5.6.1, AEM 6.0, AEM 6.1, AEM 6.2, AEM 6.3, DAM, Tagging.  Web Technologies XML, HTML, JSON, Linux Shell Script, JQuery, Apache Sling, AngularJS.  Languages Java, C#, VB Script, SQL, Ruby, HTML, XML, C, C++, JavaScript, Python, CSS, PHP, Perl.  Programming HTML 4.0, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, Perl, Sybase, UNIX Shell Scripting, MVC framework Spring MVC, Groovy and Grails.  Application Servers JBoss, Tomcat, Apache web-server.  Databases & Tools  Oracle 8i, 9i, 10g, SQL Server 2000, 2005 & 2008; IIS 6.0/7.0, Tools RAD, Eclipse, Rational Rose, JDeveloper, NetBeans, Toad, Sql developer.