Senior Salesforce Developer Senior Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Salesforce Developer - US Bank Sandy, UT • Over 9 years ofIT experience including Extensive of experience in Salesforce.com CRM platform as an Administrator/ Developer.  • Expertise in Development, Configuration, Customization, Administration and support on Salesforce.com Platform. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Salesforce Developer US Bank - Minneapolis, MN January 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Facilitated requirements gathering cross multiple vendors and organization; Performed the detailed analysis of functional and technical requirements; designed and deployed the custom objects; identified the lookup and master-detail relationships; and created the junction objects  • Implemented the searching/tagging functionality, dependent/independent pick lists, validation rules on the objects and tabs, Page layouts, Custom tabs, and Components to suit to the needs of the application  • Authored Systems Requirement Specification (SRS), Use case, System Requirement Change Request, and Data Dictionary to Delta's SFDC implementations such as Sales Cloud, Marketing Cloud and Salesforce Chatter.  • Configured and customized Salesforce.com using standard setup tasks as well as developed Apex coding which includes Triggers, classes, classes for custom controllers and controller extension, schedulable apex classes, batch apex, Apex sharing rules, Email Services per the functional needs of the application  • Auto- Response Rules, Page layouts, mini page layouts, search layouts, custom Components, custom compositions, Visual Workflows (flows), custom reports, dashboards Visual Force Pages to suit to the needs of the application  • Created several workflows by defining rules, approval processes and related actions which include creating related and time triggered tasks, email alerts, filed updates to automate the business process  • Implemented Salesforce Chatter for internal users to share the deal information and status updated on various activities  • Worked on the Eclipse IDE with Force.com plug-in environment for writing Business logic in Apex Programming Language, testing and deploying.  Environment: Force.com, S-Controls, Import Wizard, Apex, XML, Controllers, Sharing Rules, Workflows, Approval Process, Eclipse IDE, Sandbox, JavaScript, Web Services API. Salesforce Developer Apple - Sunnyvale, CA July 2014 to November 2016 Responsibilities:  • Participated in requirements grooming sessions with business users, developers and created technical design documents with coding standards and pseudo code.  • Worked on Eclipse IDE with Force.com Plugin for development and customizing components.  • Developed Apex classes and Apex Triggers for implementing customizations requested by business users.  • Developed custom visual force pages and associated Apex extension controllers and standard page layouts based on record type.  • Created Test classes for Unit Testing to check custom business functionality implemented.  • Worked on SOQL and SOSLfor querying required data sets from different custom objects and performed DML operations with consideration of Governor Limits.  • Written Apex web services to for inbound calls to salesforce and developed Apex callouts to consume data from external services by consuming Partner WSDL.  • Implemented Email-to- Case, Case Escalation rules, Case Assignment rules for service request automation.  • Worked with Data Loader for data migration and performed Insert, Update, Import and Export operations.  • Built the Member Community on the Salesforce Customer Communities platform with a completely custom look and feel to meet the client's website branding.  • Developed various Custom Reports, Report Types, Dashboards and Analytic snapshot for different line of business on Standard and Custom objects.  • Responsible for seamless integration between Exact Target and all business tools, as well as API management and data setup.  • Built package.xml and deployed components to sandbox and production instances using Force.com ant migration tool, Workbench and Change Sets.  • Provided ongoing Salesforce.com maintenance and administration services including periodic data cleansing, custom objects, workflow.  • Worked as administrator to maintain Application Level Security and involved in discussions to implement System Level Security and configured Single Sign-on.  • Performed out of Box configurations customization activities Page/Search/Compact Layouts, Record Types, Dependent Pick lists, Formula, Roll-up summary fields, Validation rules, Workflows and Approval process.  • Participated in solving day to day production issues and training sessions provided by Team.  • Used Git as code repository for day to day code modifications.  • Worked on Rally for Agile planning and reporting.  Environment: Salesforce Classic, Security Controls, Escalation rules, Assignment rules, Record types, Custom objects, Ape, Visualforce Pages, Sandbox, Workbench, Tooling API, Rally, Sublime Text, Mavens Mate, Plugin. Salesforce Developer/Administrator New York Department of Financial Services - New York, NY May 2012 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  • Worked on various salesforce.com standard, Custom objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, Reports and Dashboards and responsible for the customizing the same as per the business requirements.  • Customized fields, page layouts, record types, searching, list views, queues, reports, and dashboards to drive business decisions. Created several workflows/validation rules/assignment rules on Leads/Accounts/Cases as per the Business requirements.  • Set up Marketing Campaigns, Campaign Hierarchies, Assignment rules, Web-to-Lead and Auto-Response rules.  • Experience in integrating Salesforce Marketing Cloud with web analytics tools like Web trends, Google Analytics etc.  • Hands on experience in implementing security and sharing rules at object, field and record level for different users at different levels of organization. Also, created various profiles and configured the permissions based on the organizational hierarchy.  • Public groups, Queues, Case Teams, Sharing Settings Deployment using Change Sets.  • Performed Apttus CPQ related configuration for product setup, approval matrices, approval rules, process builders and flows and created CPQ process using Apttus CPQ and CLM AppExchange tool in Quote.  • Used Force.com developer toolkit including Apex Classes, Apex Triggers and Visualforce pages to develop custom business logic.  • Used Data Loader for insert, update, and bulk import or export of data from (SFDC) Salesforce.com subjects. Used it to read, extract and load data from CSV files.  • Involved in Data mapping and migration of data from legacy systems to SalesForce.com Objects and fields.  • Worked with Dynamic Apex to access Objects and Field values based on user inputs, execute dynamic SOQL, SOSL and DML queries.  • Used Tabular, Summary and Matrix reports to create Standard reports and Custom reports.  • Created Dashboards and Dashboard Components and implemented multiple levels of Dashboards and scheduled Dashboard refresh.  • Created Many-to-Many relationships and created Junction objects to implement Roll-up Summary fields to aggregate data from child records on the parent.  • Performed analysis, troubleshooting, data testing and environmental refreshes as needed.  • Used Change Sets and ANT for deployment  Environment: Saleforce.complatform (Classic), Apex, Apttus CLM, Visualforce, Salesforce.com Data Loader, Workflows, Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, HTML, Java Script, Java, Web Services, WSDL, Sandbox, Eclipse IDE Plug-in. Java Developer Bain Capital - Boston, MA July 2010 to April 2012 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed Struts like MVC 2 Web framework using the front-controller design pattern, which is used successfully in several production systems.  • Normalized Oracle database, conforming to design concepts and best practices.  • Designed the high level and detailed design for Quiet Time alerts by utilizing the existing Message broker infrastructure. The architecture reduced 400-man hours of initial estimation.  • Developed user interfaces using JSP, HTML, XML and JAVA Script.  • Generated XML Schemas and used XML Beans to parse XML files.  • Created Stored Procedures & Functions. Used JDBC to process database calls for DB2/AS400 and SQL Server databases.  • Invoked the web service from Message flows through XML gateway in a secured manner.  • Developed User Interface to allow the members to setup the preference using JSP based on Struts and Custom tag library facility using form beans and action classes.  • Developed ANT scripts to build the different modules for the Project, such as building the binary files and scripts for deploying to the server.  • Developed web application called hub (integration hub) to initiate all the interface processes using Struts Framework, JSP and HTML.  • Worked closely with the Infrastructure team during the build process in deployment and configuration of the Message broker. Resolved the environmental issues in a timely manner and performed IT checkout to ensure successful deployment on all the Message broker servers.  Environment: MVC 2, Message Broker, ESQL, JAVA, JSP, Struts, Hibernate, Apache Ant, Log4j, XML gateway. Java Developer United Health Group - Eden Prairie, MN February 2008 to June 2010 Responsibilities:  • Written low-level design for features Document Creation, Container Creation and Document Relocation.  • Handled assignments in developing UI pages using JSP, Html, DHTML, CSS and JavaScript technologies for modules in BDMS.  • Application developed in MVC architecture using Struts, JSP, Ajax, HTML, Java Script, CSS, JMS and Hibernate.  • Involved in implementing Value Object Pattern, MVC & Singleton Pattern.  • Updated the required data in the DB2 database to save and update the database using hibernate, corresponding to actions performed in the struts class.  • Involved in understanding business requirements and functionality of Cost Management Reporting.  • Used Struts tag library extensively with html.  • Involved in drawing the UML diagrams such as Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Developed java classes for posting and processing mails using EJB and Java Mail API.  • Added Multithreading for distributed applications.  • Deployment of the application in the Web Logic Application server.  Environment: Java, JSP, Oracle 8i, Servlets, Apache Tomcat, Java Beans, JDBC, Java Script, HTML and Rational Rose and Dream weaver. Education Bachelor's Skills HTML (6 years), ECLIPSE (6 years), JAVA (6 years), FORCE.COM (6 years), WEB SERVICES (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Salesforce Technologies  Salesforce CRM, Salesforce SFA, Apex Language, Apex Classes/Controllers, Custom Objects, Work flows and Approvals, Analytic Snapshots, Dashboard, Apex Triggers, SOQL, SOSL, Visual force pages/Components, Lightning, S-controls, Aura, Apex Web Services, AJAX, SLDS.    Salesforce Tools  Eclipse, Force.com Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Force.com Explorer, Force.com Data Loader, Force.com Excel Connector, Force.com Platform (Sandbox, and Production) QTP and Sand box testing, Change Sets, ANT.    Languages Java, C#,.Net, Apex, J2EE, XML JSP, JSON, C,C++  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, XML, REST, SOAP.  Database Oracle 9i/10g, SQL, MySQL.  ETL/Integration Tools  Force.com, Data loader, Force.com Workbench, Jitterbit, Apex DataLoader, workbench, Exact target, Eclipse IDE, Mavens, Auto RABIT, Sublime Text 3    J2EE Frameworks Hibernate, Spring MVC(STS)  Methodologies Waterfall, Agile.  Code Repositories Git, Bit bucket, SVN  Project Lifecycle Management Jira, Rally.  Lightning Experience  Salesforce Lightning Design system and Lightning components, Aura Framework, JavaScript Controllers, Server -side Controllers