Sr. Salesforce Developer /Administrator Sr. Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span> /Administrator Sr. Salesforce Developer /Administrator - Follett Campus Resources Westchester, IL • 12 Years of overall IT experience including 11+ Years in SalesForce.com CRM Platform both as Developer and Administrator, 1+ Year of experience in Java Development. Involved in various stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including analysis, requirement gathering, development, enhancements, testing, and maintenance of standalone object oriented enterprise applications.  • Experienced in Administration setup like manage Users, Security Controls and Data Management.  • Expertise in developing, deploying and integrating Salesforce.com CRM solutions.  • Experience in working with salesforce.com sandbox and production environments.  • Extensive experience in designing, creating and maintaining Salesforce.com Workflow Rules, Approvals, Email Templates (HTML & Visual Force Templates).  • Worked on the designing of custom objects,custom fields, role-based page layouts, custom Tabs, custom report, report folders, report extraction to various formats, design of Visual Force Pages, Snapshots, and Dashboards.  • Experience of using declarative features like validation rules, workflows, approval process, dynamic approval process, sharing rules automation for satisfying complex business process automations.  • Proficient in dealing with the functionalities related to the Sales Cloud, Service Cloud and Marketing Cloud.  • Experience in security and sharing model,SSO, Salesforce configuration, desktop/mobile integrations.  • Worked on Apttus CPQ (Configure Price Quote) tool, shopping cart.  • Implemented and Integrated services for complete CPQ software.  • Have in depth Knowledge and understanding of CRM business processes like Forecasting, Campaign Management, Lead Management, Order Management, Account Management, and Case Management.  • Implemented security and sharing rules at object, field, and record level for different users at different levels of organization, also created various profiles and configured the permissions based on the organizational hierarchy.  • Expertise in Force.com technology stack: APEX, Visual Force, SOQL, SOSL.  • Experience building new apps with the Lightning App Builder and Lightning Components.  • Installed Salesforce Apps, configured and maintained user security permissions in compliance with organizational Needs.  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists and other components on a record detail and edit pages.  • Experience integrating SFDC with applications like Microsoft Outlook, ACT, etc.  • Knowledge in developing web-based applications using Java, PHP, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, JavaScript and AJAX Technology.  • Proficient in developing and implementing Web service integration.  • Developed applications by using JSP, JSTL, HTML, Java Scripts, and Ajax.  • Good Knowledge of RDBMS, SQL, Microsoft Excel and Access.  • Flexible, enthusiastic and project oriented team player with solidcommunication and leadership skills to develop creative solution for challenging client needs.  • Experience of working with diverse database platforms including Oracle, SQL server, MS Access.  • Involved in requirement gathering from the client location, knowledge transfer and setting expectations on project progress at the client end.  • Excellent communication and inter-personal skills, accustomed to working in both large and small team environments.  • A team player with a strong work ethic, a positive attitude and the ability to make the best use of individual resources. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Salesforce Developer /Administrator Follett Campus Resources - Westchester, IL November 2018 to Present Responsibilities:    • Strong skills in API design, Enterprise Application Integration, Database design, knowledge of various Architecture, design, integration patterns and application frameworks development  • Designed the user stories that are planned for each sprint in Agile Methodology and preparing the design approach document with defining the implementation approach of the user story and visualizing the user story by drawing the process flow diagram and system context diagram.  • Implementing the Domain Driven Approach in Java for making different project modules as independent which can be easily plug-in or plug-out with other modules for any further enhancements or changes  • Played a key role in developing the business layer and data management components of this web based system over J2EE architecture  • Developed CRUD web services for entities using REST, Spring and Hibernate  • Hands on experience with Spring modules (Spring Core, Spring MVC, AOP, Security and Transaction) along with Hibernate as the back-end ORM tool  • Extensively used Hibernate ORM in data access layer to write DAOs. Developed hibernate mapping and Configuration files  • Developed a Rollout Automation tool which is an internal Distribution Center Maintenance tool for maintaining the scripts running at the server.  • Implemented code according to coding standards and Created AngularJS Controller which Isolate scopes perform operations  • Worked on implementing Message Driven Bean (MDB) EJB for JMS, and integration with API application.  • Used Spring Batch for scheduling and maintenance of batch jobs  • Used Spring Security for implementing the authentication, authorization, and access-control features  • Involved in Performance development activities. Developed and implemented several test cases using JUnit framework  • Developed user interface using Bootstrap, Angular 2, NodeJs, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Ajax and Jquery  • Worked on automating data loading, extraction. UNIX Shell scripting is used for generating the reports.  • Created Stored Procedures, User Defined functions, Views and implemented the Error Handling in the Stored Procedures and SQL objects and Modified already existing stored procedures, triggers, views, indexes depending on the requirement  • Extensive knowledge on application development using JAXB, JAXWS  • Used JAX-WS API to create and consume different web services  • Worked on configuration setup for JBOSS application server, and migrating the applications from JBOSS  • Used sonar plug-in for code coverage and quality  • Followed Scrum Incremental process of Agile Software Development methodology  • Continuous Integration is done using Bamboo to continuously integrate code and to do the builds  • Used Rally for tracking the Project Stories in Agile Methodology  • Involved in supporting testing phase to pass the quality phase  • Involved in production support phase to provide overview about the product  • Developed test cases and performed unit testing using Karma & Jasmine Test cases  • Developed test scripts in Selenium Web Driver using Java Language  • Implement technologies we used NPM to improve development process  • Written JUnit test cases for unit testing and improving code coverage  • Used version control repository SVN (Subversion by apache) and JIRA for issue tracking  • Used Junit and Mockito framework for unit testing of application and Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Data Loader, HTML, Java Script, MS Visual C#.Net, Email Services, Security Controls, Eclipse IDE Plug-in. Sr.Salesforce Developer/Administrator Bank of America - Charlotte, NC June 2016 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  • Implemented and created users with permissions, about 2000 users nationwide on the CRM platform and provided go live support by agile methodology.  • Created Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, and Entity-Relationship Data Model, validation Rules, Workflows and Approval Processes, Auto-Response Rules and Page layouts and Data import and export.  • Designed, developed and deployed Visual Force Page, Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers based on the business requirements in agile manner.  • Managed all objects used in their organizations in a unified & streamlined manner; collaborate with researchers to discover use cases & patterns, & integrate the findings to build an improved, data-informed product.  • Implemented Security and Sharing rules at object, field, and record level for different users at different levels of organization. Also created profiles and configured the permissions based on the organizational hierarchy using permission Sets.  • Designed various WebPages in Visual Force for customers to select a variety of services offered by the org and integrate them with the pricing team.  • Used Sales Cloud in Preparing and getting approval of design, functional and technical specifications from business.  • Integration of Sales Cloud with external information systems using SOAP API web services.  • Used Service Cloud to allow users to automate service processes, streamline workflows.  • Experience working in service cloud, supporting cases, developed workflows and triggers for automated case resolutions.  • Worked on data integration, data clearing, data transfer from third party API's with requested permission sets using APEX data loader.  • Worked on SFDC Administrative tasks like creating Profiles, Roles and Users, Page Layouts, Email Services, Approvals, Workflows, Reports, Dashboards, Tasks and actions.  • Defined Lookup and master-detail relationships on the objects and created junction objects to establish connectivity among objects.  • Involved in creating and customizing Email template and configuring them to the Email alert within the workflow rule for a standard/custom object.    • Integrated the Web Services for extracting the data from external systems, and used the Sandbox for testing to ensure minimum code coverage for the application to be migrated to production.  • Organized Daily Scrum meetings with all the team members to check whether we are in same page.  • Participated in the bug review meetings, updated requirements document as per business user feedback and change in functionality of the application.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, XML, Ajax, Angular 2, Restful Services, Node Js, Jdk, Spring MVC, Spring, Spring Boot, Microservices, Spring Security, Spring Core, Multi Threading, Hibernate, My SQL, Mongo DB, Mangoose Connector, Shell Scripting, Maven, Jenkins, AWS, Docker, SVN, Swagger, Selenium Webdriver, Grunt, NPM, JUnit, Karma, Jasmine, Mockito, Eclipse, Jira. Sr.Salesforce Developer/Administrator Internet Brands - Auburn Hills, MI March 2013 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for Business Analysis and requirement understanding, development and data modeling.  • Implemented the requirements on Salesforce.com platform and Force.com plug-in using Eclipse.  • Developed various custom objects, Components and Visual Force pages.  • Worked with various Salesforce standard objects such as Accounts, Contacts, Leads, and Opportunities.  • Developed and deployed Workflows& Approvals wherever necessary.  • Created Email templates and inbound emails using Visual Force for the clients and customers.  • Developed and configured various Custom Reports and Report Folders for different User profiles based on the need of organization.  • Developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Integrated Salesforce CRM with Siebel CRM explicitly using web services API.  • Created Page Layouts, Search Layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists and other components on a record detail and edit pages.  • Used Data Loader to make bulk upload of client data.  • Created multiple Record Types based on the category of clients.  • Developed Triggers for complex Workflow rules working around the governor limits.  • Involved in setting up Role hierarchy and assigning the users as per the roles.  • Migrated data from csv files to SFDC using data loader.  • Worked with Production support team and fixed the issues on On-Demand basis.  • Proficient in designing Test suites using C#.net.  • Perform detailed analysis of business and technical requirements and designed the solution by customizing various standard objects of SalesForce.com (SFDC) and other Platform based technologies like Visual Force, Force.com API.  • Used Sandbox for Testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Involved with Salesforce.com Premier Support and handled the support cases with Salesforce.com.  • Led in Development efforts in converting legacy .net 1.1 web applications to asp.net 3.5 applications using C#.  • Developed C# application to receive and deliver data feeds in various formats.  • Followed the Extreme Programming /Agile Methodology for development.  • Actively participated in the daily SCRUM meetings to produce quality deliverables within time    Environment:Salesforce.com, Customer Portal, Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Informatica, Apex Language, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Triggers, SOQL, SOSL, Workflow Approvals, CSS Style sheets, Custom Objects, HTML, WSDL, Security Controls, Page Layouts, Sandbox data loading, Apex Data Loader Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Reports, Dashboards, Sandbox, Windows XP. Salesforce Developer Bank of America - Charlotte, NC October 2011 to February 2013 Responsibilities:  • Developed Test classes for maximum code coverage and unit tests along with test scripts for UAT.  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists and other components on a record detail and edit pages.  • Used Force.com web service API for implementing WSDL in the application for access to data from external systems and web sites.  • Worked on various Salesforce.com standard objects like Campaigns, leads, Accounts, Contacts and opportunities, Products, Cases, Solutions, Reports and Dashboards.  • Responsible for all the activities related to configuring Data Loader, uploading data in CSV files into Salesforce.com, checking for the correctness of the data.  • Designed, and deployed the Custom objects, Custom tabs, Entity-Relationship data model, validation rules, Workflow Rules, Auto-Response Rules, Page layouts, Components, Visual Force Pages to suit to the needs of the application.  • Used Data Loader for insert, update, and bulk import or export of data from Salesforce.com objects. Used it to read, extract, and load data from comma separated values (CSV) files.  • Designed various HTML Email templates for Auto-Response to customers.  • Created Custom dashboards displaying real time metrics including forecast, revenue etc.  • Created lead foams, Campaigns to lead foams, assigning task and managing workflows.  • Managed tasks like unlocking/resetting passwords, modifying data and created ad hoc reports.  • Implemented field level security, Profile and audit trial setup.  • Written customization code using Apex Classes, Visualforce pages, used Visualforce components like Page Block, Command Buttons, Output Panel, Action Region, Action Support and Action Function.  • Created Custom Email Templates as part of sending Alerts to users based on the business requirement.  • Used sandbox mode for testing and migrated the code to the production instance in interactions.  • Experienced in Unit Testing for the customizations and developments done during the project.  • Expert knowledge of relational databases and data modelling. Experienced in integration of Salesforce.com with external applications by using Web Services API, Metadata API, SOAP, and IBM Web sphere.    Environment: Salesforce, Apex Language, Visual force Pages, Triggers, Test Classes, Web Services, WSDL, SOAP, Sales, Marketing Cloud, Custom Objects, Tabs, Data loader, Workflows, Approval process, Reports, Dashboards, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, CSS, jQuery, Windows. Salesforce Developer Salesforce.com - New York, NY November 2008 to September 2011 Responsibilities:  • Created Apex triggers and classes to accommodate bulk process of data/records according to the business needs.  • Perform detailed analysis of business and technical requirements and designed the solution by customizing various standard objects of Salesforce.com (SFDC) and other Platform based technologies like VisualForce, Force.com API and Web Services.  • Created various custom buttons with JavaScript logic to perform one-click operations.  • Deployed the metadata and other changes using change sets and ANT migration tool.  • Involved in coding for modules for all the Sub-Application of the CRM application, which involves extending existing SFDC standard components using Apex, Visualforce and other utilities.  • Imported excel based customer information records in to Accounts, Contacts and Cases using Data Loader, Import Wizard and Excel connector.  • Involved in identifying, planning and implementing new Salesforce.com features and functions, new screens, workflow, force.com objects, reports, apex code to meet business requirements.  • Worked with SF chatter, which helps the users to communicate with the organization easily and quickly.  • Used SOQL and SOSL for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Developed various Custom Objects, Tabs, Entity-Relationship data model, validation rules on the objects and tabs, Components and custom links.  • Created Triggers on three different frames Case Comments, Attachments, Email messages.  • Performed detailed analysis of business and technical requirements and developed the Apex classes using other Platform based technologies like Visualforce, Force.com IDE.  • Working with Salesforce data tools such as Data Loader and Eclipse Force.com IDE for data migration.  • Handled Restful Web services consumption for fetching content from the Internal Web server.  • Developed a customer feedback and satisfaction process.  • Worked on Salesforce.com customizations using Apex (classes, triggers and web services) and Visualforce.  • Tracked user responses to keep count and direct issues to support team.  • Worked on various standard Objects like Accounts, Case, and Contact.  • Involved in Salesforce.com application setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization.  • Configured Profile-based IP address restrictions, Organization-wide IP address restrictions and Profile-based login hour restrictions.  • Developed and configured various Reports and Report Folders for different user profiles based on the organization initiatives.  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on a record detail and edit pages.  • Worked with both technical and functional aspects of Salesfoce.com and have deep understanding of its underlying principles of SAAS and Cloud Computing.  • Designed System Configuration Enhancements (Dashboards, Reporting, Sharing Rules, Role Hierarchy, etc.)    Environment: Java 1.5 SDK, java Script, JSP 2.0, AJAX, XML, JSTL, JNDI, EJB 2.0, UML, Web sphere, Struts, CSS, Eclipse, Hibernate. Java Developer Value Labs September 2007 to October 2008 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Involved in modifying, updating and testing of the component.  • Involved in team meeting with teammates and made substantial changes to the architecture to improve performance of the Application.  • Modified JSPs, used struts tag libraries and Java Server Pages Standard Tag Library (JSTL).  • Maintained Struts architecture throughout the application.  • Developed the bean classes for better data exchange between the MVC layers  • Successfully differentiated presentation from code.  • Used multi-threading and socket programming.  • Deployed the application on WebLogic, Application Server.  • Created connection pools and data sources.  • Modified JavaScript to read client side activities (events) and data and event validations.  • Used CVS as version Control system.  • Suggested ER models and changes in the table structures  • Modified SQL, PL/SQL procedures and triggers to obtain optimize output.  • Involved in separation of components and deploying in different servers and balancing the load among each Server.  • Solved performance issues and brought optimal output from the available resources.    Environment: Java, J2ee,Sybase, BEA WebLogic Server, JSTL, SQL server, Struts framework, Servlets, JSP, EJB, CVS, JavaBeans, Eclipse, UML, Windows/Linux. Education Bachelor's Skills Analyzer (Less than 1 year), Apex (10+ years), Business intelligence (Less than 1 year), Case management. (Less than 1 year), Cast iron (Less than 1 year), Crm (8 years), Css (7 years), Customer relationship management (8 years), Database (10+ years), Eclipse (10+ years), Html (5 years), Integration (4 years), Integrator (4 years), Java (6 years), Loader (10+ years), Ms sql server (1 year), Sql (3 years), Sql server (1 year), Unix (Less than 1 year), workflow (9 years), Salesforce, Salesforce Admin, COM, Visualforce Links http://SalesForce.com Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    SALESFORCE.COM  Salesforce CRM, Salesforce Admin, Service Cloud Console, SSO, Apex language, VisualForce (Pages, Component & Controllers), Apttus CPQ, Salesforce.com Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, salesforce offline Edition, Analytic Snapshots, Lightning,Case Management System, SOQL, SOSL.    SALESFORCE TOOLS/INTEGRATION TOOL Cast Iron, Eclipse IDE, Apex Data Loader    METHODOLOGIES MS SQL Server DBA, MS SQL Server 2008, SDLC, OOAD  PROGRAMMING LANGUAGES Java, Apex, SQL, HTML, CSS  RDBMS MS Access, Oracle    OPERATING SYSTEMS Sun Solaris 8.0, Windows95/98/ XP/2000/vista, UNIX  DATABASE TOOLS Oracle 10g/9i/8i, Enterprise Manager, Query Analyzer, SQL Server Profiler, DTS,Business intelligence Studio.