iOS Developer iOS <span class="hl">Developer</span> iOS Developer Plano, TX 2-Yrs experience iOS developer is passionate about creating applications using various new technologies and making UI user-friendly. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience iOS Developer Freelance/Self employed - Plano, TX February 2018 to Present ? Designed and published Simple Depression Test app for self-detection and screening depression and anxiety disorders with 3k downloads since Sep. 2018.   o CoreData was implemented to manage multi-user’s data storage.  o A chart framework was used to show data points on the screen.   o An animated slide-in menu with collapsible cells can show nested data and with a search bar and delete function.  o Support multi-language switch in the app using the localization tool and swizzling method.  o Generating pdf reports from HTML template using UIWebView and UIPrintPageRenderer method.  o Implemented several swipe and tap gestures.  o Designed a slideshow views for first time user   o https://github.com/bmuzycn/Simple-Depression-Test  o https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/simple-depression-test/id1434941014  ? Completed a weather app can show real-time local weather information using the openweathermap API as a data source.   o AlamoFire and SwiftyJson cocoapods were embedded to fetch data through HTTP request and parse JSON data.  o CoreLocation was used to update GPS coordinates.  o Fahrenheit and Celsius scale switching function  o https://github.com/bmuzycn/WeatherQ  ? Completed a solar system educational app using ARkit SceneKit  o Customized a 3D SCNSphere geometry model and loads 2D textures from solarsystemscope.com in 3D rendering  o ARWordConfiguration was set to track a device's orientation and position using the back camera  o https://github.com/bmuzycn/ARSolar  ? Participated in a restaurant app development  o Completed a JSON request and parsing module using URLSession call back and JsonDecoder.   o Completed the images download and caching functions using NSCatch.   o Designed a customized tab bar view controller nested with navigation controllers.   o Implement auto layout programmatically in a multi-column collection view.  o Used Mapkit to overlay multiple annotations on a map view  o Embedded a customized web view with an animated loading spinner  o https://github.com/bmuzycn/LunchTime   ? Participated in a plant recognizer app design using CoreML Java Developer Self-Exmployed - Plano, TX June 2017 to February 2018 ?   Designed a UI module for register and login module using Java 8 and JavaFX  ?   Initial experiences on Java web application using Servlets and JSP, Spring Boot, H2 database, Grails, and Groovy  ?   Writing queries required by front-end applications on MS-SQL server Neuroradiologist Beijing Anding Hospital - Beijing December 2011 to December 2015 ? Responsible for routing CT and MRI scanning and interpretation.   ? Data processing and analysis of functional MRI using SPSS, SPM and Matlab toolbox. Engaged in a mobile app design for the in-hospital and clinic patient. Responsible for drawing flowcharts and diagrams using MS Visio. Radiologist Beijing Fuxing Hospital - Beijing August 2004 to December 2011 ? Completed resident training and later as a radiologist responsible for interpreting X-ray, CT and MRI films.   ? Solve some technique issues(connect errors, ip conflict, MySQL server settings) with IT professionals on the PACS network. Education Master's in Medical Imaging Capital Medical University - Beijing June 2009 to June 2011 Bachelor's in Medicine Peking University - Beijing September 1999 to July 2004 Skills Swift and Objective-C (2 years), SQL (1 year), Xcode (2 years), Java (1 year), C++ (Less than 1 year), Git (1 year), Swift, Objective C Links https://timyuzhang.com Certifications/Licenses Computer Programmer Level 1 Certificate Gerneral Line Agent for Life, Accident, Health and HMO October 2018 to January 2020 Assessments Technical Support Skills — Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/hm4u1dngh28m51hk Data Analysis — Expert March 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/dom0kfdux-oy8ffo Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Publications Simple Depression Test https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/simple-depression-test/id1434941014 2018-09 This app provides some features to help people to detect and screen depressive disorder and anxiety disorder.   - Automatically showing the result and differentiate between new user and follow-up user.   - Multi-user management.  - Store and retrieve records from built-in CoreData database.  - Select and delete the user's record by tap and long tap gestures in the bar chart view.  - Display on chart to better tracking trending and score of each test.  - Support in-app switching languages between English, Spanish and Chinese.  - Switching between PHQ-9 and GAD-7.  - Print and Export PDF report.