Freelance Freelance Atlanta, GA • Worked as an experienced lead developer in pivotal roles of Solution/Technical Architect with around 19 years of IT industry experience.  • Have experience developing and deploying enterprise applications on cloud technologies such as AWS, Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF), GE-Predix in an industrial IoT platform.  • Designed and developed enterprise SOA, microservice using Java, J2EE, ReactNative, Kafka, RabbitMQ, Spring, Hibernate/JPA, SOA, JMS, XML, SOAP, REST, NodeJs. Developed UI application using AngularJS, ReactJs. Worked on NoSql database such as Cassandra, DynamoDB and other RDBMS Oracle, SQL Server, Sybase, DB2, Redshift etc.  • Experience in TDD, CI/CD with DevOps using Docker and Kubernetes.  • Have used Agile scrum methodology and waterfall approaches in projects.  • Delivered solutions for various industries such as Retail, Telecom, Industrial technology, Telematics, Automobile, Finance, Banking and Healthcare.  • Worked with management to develop project proposals and plan. Work Experience Freelance March 2019 to July 2019 Sr. Developer/Architect  Project Details:    • Developed hybrid mobile applications for both Android/ Java and iphone using ReactNative hybrid development platform.  • Different customers like non-profit organizations with limited budget needed the help in development of mobile applications. Some of the applications are for event management, Ticketing application, Exhibit and Tour experience and assistance.  • Platform is based on ReactNative, CSS, NodeJs, Nox Player, Java, Spring, Restful web services.  • Have used IDE tools like Visual Source Code for ReactNative, scripts, Spring Tool Suite, Tomcat.  • Environment: Visual Source Code, STS, Java, NodeJs, Git, Maven. Sr. Developer/Architect Kaggle-NFL Data Analytics August 2018 to January 2019 Project Details:  • Worked on a data science application challenge hosted by Kaggle and NFL for analyzing sports, and determine the player safety rules changes. Analysis was based on historical game data reviewed using data mining and data analysis. End product was a web application with dashboard of play analysis and dashboard summary of game rules changes and recommendation for player safety.  • Platform is based on Python 3.4.1, R Programming, Java, Spring, PostgreSQL.  • Have used IDE tools Spyder for Python, Spring Tool Suite MVN, Tomcat.  • Used Github, Maven and for making builds and deployments of the application components.  • Environment: Python, R, Java, Spring-boot, REST, Git, Maven. Solution Architect ProKarma October 2017 to June 2018 Project Details:  T-Mobile Loan and Lease    • Loan and Lease is an enterprise application for generating loan/lease in financing a customer to purchase phone and plan with credit check processed by T-Mobile's credit check application with estimation of ease of pay and installment. Internally it is performed by orchestration within various systems built with microservices based on various domains to execute business functions required to transfer and process data of customer application, loan, credit and order fulfillment.  • Platform is based on Spring, Microservices, Pivotal Cloud Foundry(PCF) and AWS.  • Have served in the capacity of Solution Architect.  • Have designed Java Microservices architecture using Java, Spring-boot, JPA, Cassandra, Oracle, REST, Apache Kafka, Rabbit-MQ with standard design patterns.  • Have used IDE tool Spring Tool Suite MVN, Tomcat.  • Implemented dataflow and other ETL tools such as Apache Ni-Fi, Spark, Talend.  • Used Subversion, Maven, and Jenkins for making builds and deployments of the application components.  • Developed in test-driven development environment using JUnit framework.  • Followed Continuous Integration/delivery approach using Jenkins.  • Environment: Agile, CI/CD, PCF, AWS, Java, Spring-boot, Microservices, Soap, REST, JAAS, Spring Security, Hibernate, JPA, Rabbit MQ, STS, JUnit, Splunk, Sonar, Tomcat, Git, Maven, Jenkins, Windows 10, UNIX. Technical Architect Quest Global Engineering March 2017 to September 2017 Project Details:  GE Power - CDIT    • CDIT is built on GE Predix cloud platform with IoT. This tool reads data of temperature and humidity and other parameters from remotely located Plant components and then analyses data from other application (OE) Operational Excellence output files and data from UI and database. Tool is useful to integrate such report with other plant configuration data that plant engineers can assess performance.  • Have served in the capacity of Technical Architect/Lead at onsite for GE Power team.  • Responsible for customer requirements and provide solution to meet the business expectations.  • Performed pivotal role in design and architecture of CDIT using Microservices with the support of GE-Predix environment.  • Have designed Java Microservices architecture using Spring boot, Hibernate, JPA, REST, Rabbit-MQ, NodeJS, Selenium with standard design patterns.  • Have designed the system using UML artifacts such as Class Diagram, Collaboration Diagram, deployment Diagram.  • Have used IDE tool Spring Tool Suite MVN, Tomcat.  • Used Subversion, Maven, and Jenkins for making builds and deployments of the application components.  • Developed in test-driven development environment using JUnit framework.  • Followed Continuous Integration/delivery approach using Jenkins.  • Environment: Agile, CI/CD, Java, NodeJS,, Spring-boot, Microservices, Soap, REST), Hibernate, JPA, Rabbit MQ, Spring and Web Services Security, Spring Tool Suite 3.5.1 , JUnit, Tomcat, Subversion, MVN, Jenkins, Windows 7, UNIX. Lead Developer Office Depot - Boca Raton, FL February 2016 to January 2017 • Responsible as Lead for development of online e-commerce business.  • Agile development environment. Technology stacks of spring, Struts using Java/J2EE, SOA, Microservices design standards. Also responsible for using Gtools for content management. Have followed strong practice in Test Driven Development (TDD) using Junit and Mockito framework.  • Responsible for afull stack development using JSP, Ajax.  • Developed back-end using RESTful Web Services, Spring, Hibernate, Oracle and Groovy/Grails script with Java code.  • Build and deploy done using Maven repository.  • Environment: Java, JSP, Struts, Spring, Ajax, JQuery, Spring MVC, RESTful web services, Hibernate, JDBC, XML, JUnit, JBoss, Subversion, Maven, Windows 7, UNIX, Putty. Technical Lead Mastech Inc August 2012 to January 2017 Senior Java Developer Macy's Systems Technology - Duluth, GA August 2015 to January 2016 • Worked as Senior developer in agile environment for Macy's Warehouse Management System. WMS developed using Java/J2EE along with other technologies to help Macy's warehouse associate to track products in the system and workflow of the order process in backend.  • Developed front-end using JSP, AngularJS, Bootstrap3, HTML, and CSS.  • Developed back-end using RESTful Web Services, spring, Hibernate, Oracle and Groovy/Grails script with Java code.  • Environment: Java, Groovy, JSP, JQuery, Spring Boot, AWS, SQS, NoSQL MongoDB, REST web services, Hibernate, JDBC, Servlet, Ajax, XML, JUnit, JBoss, Subversion, Maven, Stash, Windows 7, UNIX, Putty. Senior Software Developer Verizon Telematics, Inc - Atlanta, GA August 2012 to July 2015 • Worked for Telematic software web enterprise application to help Verizon cater their OEM in auto industry in a vehicle automation in IoT business.  • Java/J2ee development using Java, JSP, JQuery, Spring MVC, Hibernate, JPA, Servlet, Ajax, XML, and Web Services (SOAP/REST) using SoapUI tool, implemented web security in application into web services using SAML tokens, OAM to valid web services request received from client and return error response appropriately with return code, OAM, JMS -Active MQ, with standard design patterns.  • Have designed the system using UML artifacts such as Class Diagram, Collaboration Diagram, deployment Diagram.  • Have used IDE tool Spring Tool Suite 3.5.1 by VMware for development, integration with web application server MVN, JBoss.  • Used Subversion, Maven, and Jenkins for making builds and deployments of the application components.  • Developed in test-driven development environment using JUnit framework.  • Environment: Java, JSP, JQuery, IoT, Spring, JDBC, Servlet, Ajax, XML, Web Services(Soap/REST), SoapUI, Soap and REST, Web Services Security, Hibernate, JPA, Active MQ, JMS, Spring Tool Suite 3.5.1 , JUnit, JBoss 4, Subversion, MVN, Jenkins, Windows 7, UNIX, WinScp. Senior Software Engineer Internap Network Services February 2012 to August 2012 • CDN Portal developed for the management of Content Delivery Network service in Data Center, IP services and managed hosting facilities.  • This portal with http streaming, flash media server streaming, mobile streaming capabilities developed using Java, Socket Programming, Networking, TCP/IP programming, JSP, Adobe Flash/Flex, ActionScript 3, Servlet, Spring, Spring Web Services, Spring JDBC framework, XML, Web Services (SOAP and REST), Maven, Tomcat 7, Unix, Eclipse Helios, Mac-OSx.  • Have used IDE tool Eclipse Ganymede for development, integration with web application server Tomcat 7.0.  • Environment: Java, Socket Programming, Networking, TCP/IP, Adobe Flash/Flex, ActionScript 3, CSS, JSP, Servlet, XML, Eclipse Helios, Tomcat 7, Mac-OSx, Windows 7, UNIX. Software Specialists LLC April 2009 to February 2012 Senior Developer AT&T - Atlanta, GA January 2009 to January 2012 • This project is a highly scalable enterprise application which interacts with POS ( Point-Of-Sale ) system application used at AT&T stores by store associate to sell AT&T plan and register at more than several thousand of stores across US and Canada. Everyday millions of transactions are processed those are received from POS system that sends transactional xml data to internal enterprise servers and based on that store POS data sent for new and old subscriber(customer) data our system finally processes dashboard view to executive portal application to maintain the up-to-date information of YoY(Year-over-Year) sales to generate the reports of business and subscriber growth.  • This application was developed using Java, JSP, Spring, JQuery, XML, Soap Web Services.  • The back-end implementation is using Oracle 11g database server.  • Have participated in business requirement gathering and use case analysis and design of the application.  • Have used IDE tool Eclipse for development, integration with web application server Tomcat 7.0. Used database Oracle 11g server for the back-end system and have written SQL using Oracle JDeveloper.  • Environment: Java, Html, JSP, Servlet, JavaBean, JQuery, Ajax, XML, Eclipse, Tomcat 7, WebLogic, Oracle JDeveloper, Oracle 11g server, Windows 7, UNIX. Lead Developer Home Depot - Atlanta, GA December 2009 to December 2010 • REBA is a Retail Business Administration application developed using Adobe Flex 3.0 and Java, Web Services, J2EE design patterns using DAO and with log4j logging, security using LDAP authentication and authorization.  • The web front-end is implementation of Flex, JSP, Servlet and using calls to RESTful web services, database DB2 using DAO.  • Have participated in business requirement gathering and use case analysis and design of the application.  • Have been involved in Java/J2ee development using Java, Servlets, Adobe Flex 3.0, ActionScript 3 to build highly interactive front end using Flex Cairngorm framework and using RESTful Web Services with standard design patterns.  • Implemented J2EE Design Patterns DAO (Data Access Object), DTO (Data Transfer Object), and Service Locator and MVC design patterns.  • Have done code review and configuration build management for the application using Ant, ClearCase.  • Have used IDE tool Eclipse Ganymede for development, integration with web application server Tomcat 6.0 and JBoss.  • Used database DB2 for the back-end system and have written SQL.  • Developed components in test-driven environment using testing framework JUnit.  • Environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, Adobe flex 3, Cairngorm framework, RESTful Web Services, XML, ActionScript 3, ANT, Eclipse, Tomcat 7, JBoss, ClearCase, Oracle 10g, Toad. Senior Java Developer Fidelity Investments, NH November 2008 to April 2009 • Developed front-end using JSP, GWT, Servlet, XML, HTML, and CSS.  • Developed back-end using Spring, Hibernate, Oracle, Websphere server.  • Build and deploy done using maven repository.  • Environment: Java, JSP, Servlet, GWT, Spring, Hibernate, JDBC, Servlet, Ajax, XML, JUnit, websphere, Subversion, Maven, Windows 7, UNIX, Putty. Technical Architect/Lead developer Irvine, CA July 2006 to December 2008 Senior Java Developer Verizon Wireless, TX April 2008 to October 2008 * Developed front-end using JSP, EJB, Servlet, XML, HTML, and CSS.  • Developed back-end using Spring, Hibernate, Oracle, WebLogic server.  • Build and deployed code using maven repository.  • Environment: Java, JSP, Servlet, Spring, Hibernate, JDBC, Servlet, Ajax, XML, JUnit, WebLogic, Subversion, Maven, Windows 7, UNIX, Putty. Syntel Inc January 2004 to February 2008 Clients: Lead Developer McKesson - Atlanta, GA January 2004 to June 2006 Senior Java Developer Stolt-Nielsen Transportation Group Inc February 2003 to December 2003 Tata InfoTech Ltd January 2002 to January 2003 Clients worked for: Senior Java Developer Mahindra Satyam (formerly Satyam Computer) January 2001 to January 2002 January 2001 to January 2002  Clients worked for:  • JP Morgan Chase, UK  Designation/Role: Senior Java Developer  • Toronto Dominion Bank, Canada - Senior Software Engineer Software Developer Melstar Information Technologies Ltd - Mumbai, Maharashtra January 2000 to December 2000 Education Bachelor's in Electronics Engineering Shivaji University