Sr. Salesforce Developer Sr. Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Salesforce Developer - Anthem Wallingford, CT • Over 9+ years of professional IT experience in SaaS, PaaS, Salesforce.com CRM, Force.com platform and Java/J2EE technologies.  • Experience in configuring and customizing Salesforce Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Communities, Portals and App exchange apps.  • Hands on experience with CRM processes Lead Management, Account Management, Opportunity Management, Order Management, Forecasting, Campaign Management & Case Management.  • Strong programming experience using Apex Classes, Apex Triggers, Dynamic apex, SOQL, SOSL, developing Visualforce pages, Components using Standard, Custom, Extension and List controllers.  • Good experience in writing Apex Batch, Schedule Classes, Http callouts, Web services, SOAP API, REST API, Test Classes, Email Services (single, mass emails) and Wrapper classes.  • Hands on integration experience using SOAP, REST apex web service classes for making inbound calls to salesforce and used external WSDL to make calls to external application.  • Experience working on Salesforce1 Lightning experience rollout and developed Lightning Components, Handlers, Events, Controllers for modern lightning experience.  • Experience in Heroku integration using REST API.  • Experience with modern styling using lightning SDLS styles, used in lightning components.  • Well knowledge with development tools Eclipse IDE, Developer Console, Sublime and Workbench.  • Knowledge with Governor Limits, Apex best practices and implemented them while writing SOQL, SOSL, Triggers and Controllers.  • Developed a REST API to send the information to Docusign through XMLGateway and Docusign is calling a REST API is sending an envelope, that envelope contains all the documents name and the customer information.  • Proficient in Salesforce administrative tasks of managing Users, Role hierarchy, Profiles, Territory Management, Sharing rules, Email Services, Communication templates.  • Experience in designing and configuring Salesforce Custom Objects, Fields, Formula fields, Relationships - Lookup, Master-detail, Junction, Page, Search, Compact Layouts, Field Sets, Validation rules, Tabs and Salesforce1 navigations.  • Good experience in performing business automation declaratively using Workflows, Approval processes and Lightning Process builder.  • Managed support and deployment of add-on products such as Eloqua, Docusign, Demand Tools, Dupe Blocker.  • Proficient with sales cloud and service cloud configuration using Web-to- Lead, Email-to- Case to capture leads from website and creating Cases using Email-to- Case, setting up Escalation rules and Assignment rules.  • Implement client side REST API integration for resolving e-Commerce customer attributes.  • Administered CPQ requirements for clients on Steel brick and hands-on experience on Salesforce Lightning.  • Experience working across various SFDC implementations that are covering sales cloud, service cloud and Apttus QPC.  • Hands on Apttus CPQ integration with Salesforce. Participated in developing Apttus products such as QTC and QPC.  • Implemented new physical designs for 30 DB2 tables. Analyzed and defined buffer pool assignments and sizing.  • Worked with Eloqua to integrate the Lead Generation process in SFDC.  • Experience in building salesforce Reports and Dashboards by leveraging salesforce and other BI tools to provide accurate reporting for various business users in the organizations.  • Hands on experience with Data Migration/Integration using Import Wizard, Data Loader, Workbench and integration tools like Informatica cloud connector.  • Designed and developed a web app that allows to add/modify Product SKUs using Spring Boot  • Experience working with Git, Bitbucket, SVN source control tools for managing various release code base.  • Hands on experience in managing sandbox and migrating components using Force.com ant migration tool, Change sets and Eclipse.  • Well experienced with Object Oriented Programming using Java, J2EE and C# .net and Oracle, SQL Server RDBMS database.  • Having experience with Heroku Connect to sync salesforce data.  • Experience in developing web applications with responsive UI using HTML5, CSS, Javascript, jQuery and Bootstrap styles.  • Used REST API for implementing Web Service Definition Language (WSDL) in the application for access to data from external systems and web sites.  • Created DB2 naming standards to accommodate DB2 object names in fourteen Test and Production regions. Upgraded ERWin modeling software; converted and maintained the DOIS data model.  • Salesforce.com Configuration and Design of Service Cloud, Sales Cloud and Force.com solutions, with an emphasis on Service Cloud solutions.  • Written Bulk API and SOAP based API code in Java for various requirements.  • Development experience in various platforms like MS Office, Visio documenting tool and Salesforce.com Sandbox and Development environments.  • Good at documenting Business Requirements, Technical Design and User Stories to make easy in understanding for all business/development users.  • Experience working in Agile, Waterfall project development environments and involved in sprint planning/grooming sessions. Work Experience Sr. Salesforce Developer Anthem - Wallingford, CT September 2015 to Present RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Designed, developed and deployed Apex Classes, Triggers, and Validation rules for various functional needs in the application.  • Used SOQL & SOSL with consideration to Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Performed APP Exchange integration of CPQ to configure and ensure the pricing and quoting accuracy.  • Generated the quotation word document from the Salesforce.com by using the feature of Apttus CPQ.  • Designed and developed Apex Classes with Standard, Custom and Extension controllers and Apex Triggers to serve various functional needs in the application.  • Integrated Salesforce.com with External JAVA Applications to capture Accounts, Contacts and using REST API by configuring Connected App and worked with SOAP Integration.  • Worked with Apttus to Create tools for the support and implementation of business logic.  • Created custom cloning for the record by copying certain field sections of the record and creating as a new record after modifications.  • Worked on with API callouts to retrieve the data and also update the data back to the Database maintained for the users.  • Used Force.com Web services API for implementing web services to access to data from different users.  • Create inbound apex soap Web service classes for external systems to consume salesforce data.  • Developed apex unit Test Classes for unit testing of various custom code written in the organization.  • Created custom field and field dependencies on standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Cases, Campaigns and Solutions.  • Created workflow rules, approval process and defined related actions Creating tasks, email alerts, field updates for business automation.  • Defined lookup and master-detail relationships on the objects and created junction objects to establish connectivity among objects  • Created Page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on a record detail and edit pages.  • Established the framework for change management with both employees and customers.  • Created various custom Reports, Dashboard on custom objects to give complete detail overview.  • Developed Custom Objects, Custom reports and configured the Analytical Snapshots to dump the data on a regular basis for the sales performance and lead generation statics.  • Performed Administrative actions created Profiles, Users, Roles, Data sharing rules, Object/Field level settings, IP filtering and SSO configuration.  • Worked with Dell Boomi for integration of salesforce with SAP system.  • Performed deployments using writing Ant based scripts using Force.com migration tool and Change Sets.  • Worked with business users in pre-deployment activities and fixing issues immediately in the UAT sandbox.  ENVIRONMENT: Salesforce.com, Force.com, Apex classes, Triggers, Visualforce pages, Data Loader, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, XML, REST, AJAX, Web Services, SOAP, REST, Microsoft Outlook, Agile Methodology using Pivotal Tracker. SFDC Developer Samsung - Ridgefield, NJ, US December 2013 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  • Worked with Business Analyst/Stake holder in the organization for requirements and technical decisions to make final development design decisions.  • Worked with SOQL, SOSL statements in Triggers, Controllers and Web Services by considering Governor Limits and performed DML operations on various objects.  • Developed Apex classes (Controllers, Extension Controllers), Triggers, Batch and Schedule classes to meet business customizations for Business Automation.  • Written custom Visualforce pages for customized solutions for the business and used CSS, jQuery for client side validations in the Visualforce pages.  • Implemented AJAX functionality in the Visualforce pages using JavaScript Remoting to make calls to Apex controllers and refreshing pages dynamically.  • Written apex RESTful web service classes for inbound calls to salesforce and imported WSDL file to generated apex classes and made outbound calls to external Java web application.  • Developed Lightning Apps, Components using Lightning Design System, Lightning App Builder and Lightning Component features, updated Apps from Salesforce Classic to Lightning Experience with rich user interface.  • Written Apex Test classes for unit testing of all Apex triggers, controllers, future methods and Web services using Web Service Mock, Http Callout Mock interfaces.  • Implemented salesforce best practices while writing Triggers, Web Services & Controllers to avoid governor limit exceptions.  • Worked on administrative configuration task of creating Users, Roles, Profiles, Sharing rules, SSO, CORS and validation rules.  • Created custom objects and established relationships using Lookup, Master-Detail and created Junction Objects for many-to-may relationships.  • Working with standard objects Accounts, Contacts, Opportunities, Campaigns, Cases and other custom objects.  • Configured Leads - Web-to-lead, Cases - Email-to-case, Auto-response, Escalation and Assignment rules.  • Used workflow rules, approval processes and process builder for automations of business use cases without writing code.  • Used Data Loader for regular data updates and used Mule Soft for integrating data with Teradata system.  • Used Force.com Ant Migration tool for deployment components across various sandbox and production orgs.  • Worked with GIT repositories for maintaining code repositories.  • Implement Single-Sign On for the organization by coordinating with Identity Provider team.  • Provided demos the business users for the customizations delivered for each release and handled production issues regular basis.  • Followed Agile methodology and provided daily updates in SCRUM calls.  Environment: Salesforce.com CRM, Force.com Platform, Apex Language, Classes, Triggers, SOQL, SOSL, Batch, Schedule, Web Services, SOAP, REST, WSDL, SOAP UI, Visualforce pages, Components, Process Builder, Workflows, Approval Process, Salesforce1, Lightning Server Controllers, Lightning JavaScript Controllers, SLDS CSS, Lightning App Builder, Test Classes, Standard & Custom Objects, Relationships, Reports, Dashboards, Data Loader, Mule soft, Eclipse, Force.com Ant Migration tool, GIT, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Windows. Salesforce Developer CVS Caremark - Dallas, TX April 2011 to November 2013 RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Worked with business Users/Analysts in business/technical grooming sessions and prepared technical design inputs.  • Written SOQL, SOSL, Aggregate and relationship queries using apex query language in Apex Controllers, Triggers and Batch classes.  • Apttus implementation with complex functionalities for business logic. User Management, CPQ, Marketing Content Management.  • Worked with Managed packages from APTTUS CPQ and involved in integrating APTTUS business logic with current system.  • Developed Apex classes, Controllers - Custom, Extension controllers, Apex Triggers for various functional requirements.  • Developed Steelbrick (CPQ) for Salesforce to configure, price and quote new deals, add-on sales and renewals.  • Developed REST APIs using SpringBoot and integrated them to send JSON data to UI.  • Exposure to callouts from salesforce to call external process on Heroku.  • Designed REST API leveraging the Springboot toolkit to communicate between front-end and legacy back-end.  • Performed Steelbrick CPQ related configuration for product setup, approval matrices, approval rules, process builders and flows.  • Worked on integrating salesforce with external web application to send salesforce data by making apex callout using HttpRequest, Http classes.  • Created custom apex restful Web Service classes using @HttpGet, @HttpPost, @HttpPut annotations in Salesforce for external application to access data.  • Worked on lightning components, event registration, handlers for performing business logics and actions.  • Facilitating customer requirements by gathering and mapping key business requirements in the Eloqua platform.  • Documented and reconfigured the bi-direction integration between the Eloqua and Salesforce databases.  • Develop web-based applications to track, display and analyze healthcare data using SpringBoot and NoSQL databases.  • Created and executed project plans, successfully deploying Salesforce.com solutions.  • Created real-time integrations with Siebel CRM system using Mulesoft as Integration.  • Written apex Test classes using annotations @isTest, @testSetup for unit testing of Apex classes, Triggers and Batch Classes and achieved 90% of code coverage.  • Using SpringBoot which is radically faster in building MicroServices and develop Spring based application with very less configuration.  • Developed Visualforce pages using components like PageBlock, PageBlockSetion, InputField, DataTable, DataList, Repeat, CommandButton, CommandLine and ajax components ActionFunction, ActionSupport for partial page refresh after making calls to apex controller.  • Developed Visualforce pages with HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery to perform client-side validations and rich user interface.  • Created a Security Audit Report which used DB2 log information to identify unauthorized updates and updaters of sensitive DB2 tables.  • Used Eclipse, Developer Console for developing Visualforce Pages, Components, Apex classes, Triggers, Batch, Schedule and debugging and analyzing logs.  • Strong experience in implementing Salesforce MVC pattern with Apex classes as Controller, Visualforce pages as UI and SObjects as Model for persisting data in the salesforce platform database.  • Performed salesforce administrative tasks - Creating Users, Roles, Profiles, Permission Set, Public Groups, Queues, Sharing Rules, Validation Rules, Single Sign-On and Deployments.  • Developed Workflow rules, Approval process and actions like Creating Task, Email Alert and Field updates.  • Developed SOAP and REST based requests for communicating with web services.  • Used Process Builder to consolidate/migrate existing worflow rules and associated actions into to Process flows.  • Developed complex validation rules, Formula fields, Relationships Lookup, Master-Detail and Many-to-Many relationships using Junction objects.  • Created Record types, assigned Picklist values, Page Layout based on the Profile to the Record type.  • Worked on configuration of Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Opportunities, Campaigns, Cases, Knowledge, Articles and Solutions Standard objects.  • Worked on configuration of Service console, Email-to-Case, Escalation, Assignment and Auto response rules on Case object for service cloud automation.  • Developed Tabular, Summary, Matrix reports, analytic snapshot and Dashboards for different line of businesses.  • Used Data Loader to bulk load data into Salesforce from CSV files, Oracle databases.  • Used Ant Force.com migration tool, Jenkins to deploying and CI of salesforce sandbox to Production environments.  • Used Heroku to migrate Case/Case Items from legacy Salesforce Org.  • Configured Microsoft FS IdP to enable SAML based SSO in salesforce sandbox and production for authentication.  • Fixed Production issues created by business users in the daily basis.  ENVIRONMENT: Salesforce.com, Service cloud, Apex, Visualforce, Controllers, Workflows, Approval Process, Web Services, SOAP, REST, Reports, Dashboards, Data Loader, JavaScript, HTML, AJAX, CSS, Force.com IDE, Git, Windows XP, windows 7. Java/J2EE Developer TCS India April 2008 to March 2011 Responsibilities:  • Developed User Training Manual and Technical Documentation.  • Developed front-end UI using JSP pages with CSS and performed client-side validation using JavaScript and jQuery.  • Application was based on MVC Architecture with JSP serving as Presentation Layer, Servlets as Controller and DAO layer to access the Oracle Database.  • Used Hibernate to develop persistence layer and created Java beans based on Object-Relational Mapping.  • Implementing various design patterns in the project such as Business Delegate, Data Transfer Object, Data Access Object and Service locator.  • Consumed external services by generating client from the external service WSDL (WSDL Java) and published services by generating WSDL from java with JBoss.  • Used JDBC and developed DAO classes to connect with Oracle database.  • Developed Web Components using JDBC, JSP, Servlets and Struts framework.  • Used Eclipse as in IDE for development and integrated with Version control, database and application server to develop, query and deploy.  • Used Tortoise SVN as Source Version Control for managing code base.  • Deployment web application war file to JBoss Application server.  • Worked with SQL statements and PL/SQL Triggers, Procedures and Functions to fetch the data from Oracle Database.  • Worked on Unit testing of application by developing Unit test methods.  Environment: J2EE, JDBC, JSP, Struts, XML, XSLT, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, PL/SQL, Oracle 9i, Eclipse 3.5, JBoss, Windows XP, Linux. Education Bachelor's Skills AJAX (7 years), CSS (10+ years), HTML (8 years), JAVA (8 years), DATABASE (8 years) Links http://Salesforce.com http://@HttpGet http://@HttpGet http://@HttpGet Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  SALESFORCE  Apex Triggers, Apex Classes, Custom and Extension Controllers, SOQL, SOSL, Visual force Pages, Components, S-Controls, Apex Web Services (SOAP & REST), Workflow & Approvals, Dashboards, Reports, Analytic Snapshots, Custom Objects.    LANGUAGE C, C++, C#, .net, HTML, SQL, JAVA, J2EE, Apex.  WEB TECHNOLOGIES HTML, CSS, XML, jQuery, AJAX, Java script, Web logic, Apache Tomcat.  TOOLS&IDE  Force. com IDE, Force. com Explorer, Data Loader, Informatica Cloud Connector, Eclipse, Outlook connector, Excel Connector, Workbench, SOAP UI.    VERSION CONTROLS SVN, Git, Git hub, Bitbucket.  METHODOLOGY Agile, Scrum, RAD, Waterfall.  DATABASE Microsoft SQL Server, SQL & PL/SQL, Oracle, RDBMS.  OPERATING SYSTEM Windows XP, Windows Vista, Windows 7, Linux.