Sr. AEM Developer Sr. AEM <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. AEM Developer Saint Louis, MI Professional Summary:  Experienced professional in IT industry with strong experience in Web content management (WCM) & J2EE development technologies with solid experience of Object Oriented Programming (OOP) as well as Test-Driven Development (TDD) in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  Overall 8+ years of IT experience.  Overall 4.5 years of hands-onAEMexperience in development of content management solutions using Adobe AEM Content Management System.   Excellent work experience in AEM 6.4, AEM 6.3, AEM 6.2, AEM 6.1, AEM 5.6.1.  Experience in developing Templates, Custom Components, creating and launching Workflows and customizing out of the box Widgets.  Experience in developing different applications using CRXDE, Eclipse IDE and Rational Application Developer (RAD).  Experience in Workflow development and integrating AEM with other applications.  Strong experience with setting up AEM using Maven and standard Eclipse tools.  Knowledge of using MVC and version control tools like SVN and GitHub.  Efficient in WCM, DAM, CQ5, CRX (Content Management Extreme), Components, Widgets and Apache Sling.  Experience in using Management (DTM).  Worked with MSM in AEM for creating Blueprints, live copies, configuration of rollouts.  Using sling built content-centric applications with the help of Apache Oak or Crx3.  Strong knowledge on Packaging, deploying CQ code to multiple environments, quick changes using package manager, hotfixes, etc.  Experienced in using CRXDE and Eclipse IDEs to develop CMS applications.   Experience in Integration of the System modules, Writing Test Cases, Bug Fixing and Enhancements, very conversant with Quality Management and System Support.   Extensive programming in Web Technologies likes JSP, JavaScript, XML, AJAX, jQuery, Adobe AEM APIs, Apache Sling, OSGi bundles.   Good web page design skills using HTML (HTML5), CSS3, Ajax, jQuery, JSP and Java Script and making them cross browser compatible.   Good knowledge of web services and has technical understanding of SOAP protocol, REST full architecture, UDDI & WSDL.  Good understanding of J2EE Security framework. Having experience in configuration of SSL on Web Logic server.  Expertise in developing and implementing enterprise solutions for distributed software products and applications using Java technologies.  Expert in writing SQL queries with RDBMS skills in MySQL, SQL Server and Oracle, etc.  Have excellent experience in application servers Apache, Tomcat, JBoss, WebSphere, Web Logic and MS VISIO.  Experience with Agile process methodology.  In depth knowledge of RUP’s Iterative Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) process and Agile/Scrum Software Development  Experience in using Maven for build automation  Experience in extensively on SOA and proficient with Java/UI development using Top-Down and Bottom-Up approaches.  Experience in end-user testing or acceptance testing known as User Acceptance Testing (UAT).  Experience with connecting and working with third party repositories and experience in using GIT and SVN for source code control.  Strong knowledge on Adobe Analytics, Google Tag Manager and Adobe Dynamic Tag Manager.  Extensive experience in client interaction for business requirements analysis, presentations for business and technical requirement document and functional design document.  Experience in working and helping colleagues with team challenges.  Excellent analytical and logical skills with strong communication skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. AEM Developer Stewart Title - Jacksonville, FL March 2017 to Present Responsibilities  • Involved in gathering requirements from Business users and analyzing the requirements.  • Experience in working with AEM 6.2 versions Web Content Management System.  • Created reusable Touch UI and Classic UI components using HTL AEM 6.2.  • Created custom templates for generating pages using Adobe experience manager.  • Designed web pages using HTML, CSS, Java Script and edge cutting tools using Brackets IDE.  • Worked on Digital Asset Management (DAM), to manage and store all the media.  • Worked on Multi Site Manager (MSM) from live copy for multi-language for global site using i18n internationalization and language copy.  • Part of Migration team to upgrade from AEM 6.0 to AEM 6.1.  • Integrating AEM with Adobe target and Analytics.  • Create and maintain customer-facing Adobe AEM content management systems.  • Used Log4J for logging and tracing the messages.  • Involved in working with java script frameworks like Bootstrap, Angular Js and npm.  • Content was Imported/Exported using CRXDE via package manager.  • Development of modules and OSGI bundles.  • Developed custom components, customized forms for Internet and Intranet sites of the company.  • Held responsible for designing and implementing cloud-based solutions, including private, community and public cloud deployment models.  • Server monitoring and implementing automated/custom maintenance tasks.  • Worked on the Angular JS for reading and Posting JSON data.  • Provided estimates, designs, and specifications for AEM templates, components, and workflows.  • Built various web pages using HTML, Angular JS, CSS, Java Script and JQuery.  • Setup and configured Authoring and Publishing environments, replication agents, AEM dispatcher to cache the landing pages html and serve as the static pages from Apache.  • Used Angular JS to provide services to different components of portal.  • Worked on Angular JS for reading and Posting JSON data.  • Worked on Forms customization by developing the custom form fields, writing the custom constraints for form fields and specifying the global validation resource type at the form level.    Environment: AEM 6.2, CRXDE Lite, Slightly, DAM, JCR, MSM, CRX, Workflows, Scene 7, OSGI, Apache Jackrabbit, Forms, HTML 5, CSS 3, JavaScript, Java, jQuery, Ajax, JSON, XML, Eclipse, Maven, Sublime Text, GIT, JIRA, Bit Bucket, Brackets, Rest, Agile AEM Developer Stewart Title - Houston, TX July 2016 to February 2017 Responsibilities:  • Installed and configured Adobe AEM6.3 version.  • Involved in content migration from AEM 6.2 to AEM 6.3.  • Created new components in Touch UI.  • Worked on Multi Site Manager (MSM) in AEM, enforcing a common base structure and common content across the website.  • Built dynamically generated dropdown lists using Ajax, JQuery and Angular JS.  • Installed and Configured AEM Authoring & Publishing Instance.  • Design and development of web pages using AEM, Slightly, HTL, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Ajax and JQuery.  • Worked on Tar Compaction and Indexing as part of application maintenance.  • Used BootstrapCSS framework that helps in designing web applications  • Adopted and utilized Agile Methodology as needed or requested  • Worked on web services to consume the data from the application API's  • Wrote custom code (scheduler with corn job) to create assets in DAM, workflows to approve/reject assets and assign tags.  • Responsible for writing build scripts using POM XML files, Maven and ANT scripts.  • Used Jenkins as build tool and used JIRA to track the bugs, issues and project management.  • Used Log4J for logging and tracing the messages.  • Extensively used AEM Tag Libraries in the components.  • Have a complete understanding of CRX repository and accessing the CRX content nodes by SQL Queries and XPath.  • Strong knowledge on AEM associated technologies like Sling, OSGI, Felix, CRX.  • Created client libraries at component level and global level (designs) for handling JavaScript and CSS.  • Implemented server side service components using Apache Felix framework and Apache Sling.  • Worked on creations of workflow models for publishing the pages from author to publish, process steps and User Administrations in AEM.  • Used Maven to build and generate code analysis reports.  • Involved in building, deploying the code and moving code to different environments.  • Utilized Angular JS framework to bind HTML template (views) to JavaScript objects (models).  • Built Angular JS framework including MVC architecture, different modules, specific controllers, templates, custom directives and custom filters.  • Involved in supporting the application post production and maintenance.  • Experience working in an agile environment, involved in daily standup meetings.  Environment: AEM 6.3, AEM DAM, Workflows, Apache Sling, MSM, CRXDE, CRX, JAVA, J2EE, AngularJS, OSGI, AJAX, JSON, HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, JQuery, Jenkins, Maven, SOAP UI, XPath, XML, LINUX, JSP, Web Services (SOAP, REST), Eclipse, GIT. AEM Developer State Farm - Bloomington, IL April 2014 to June 2016 Responsibilities  • Installed and configured version 5.6.1of Adobe AEM Web Content Management System and Apache Felix Admin Console.  • Installed CRXDE Integrated development environment and Configuration of the project with Subversion version control.  • Involved in creating customized templates, components customizing CQ DAM (Digital Asset Management).  • Maintained the Content Management System (CMS) and provided support for the application.  • Worked on style sheets to maintain the structure and improvise the appearance of Webpages.  • Involve with content management strategies, architecture,and multichannel content delivery.  • Wrote test cases for testing of AEM components and templates in both authoring and publishing environments.  • Developed sling servlets to perform various actions.  • Involved in daily meetings and worked in Agile Environment.  • Involved in complete AEM related design and framework development using templates, components, AEM bundle, JCR/Sling API.  • Worked on Multisite Manager (MSM) to get same structure and content on all the versions of the website.  • Maintenance and packaging of content, delivery,and installation across all environments.  • Performed AEM customization on foundation components, core CMSandworkflows to extend functionalities, improve performance as per the requirements.  • Developed digital consumer experiences based on a foundation of the Adobe AEM product suite, including AEM, CRX, andDAM.  • Used JIRA for project management and bug tracking.  • Developed unit test cases for modules developed.  • Provided estimates, designs and specifications for AEM development modules.  • Used Apache Maven for build automation.  • Developed reusable components in CQ.  • Developed UI using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Implemented REST, Apache Sling, AEM for Custom Coding.  • Used log4j for logging the messages.  • Involved with content management strategies, architectureand multichannel content delivery.  Environment: AEM 5.6.1, Java (jdk1.6), J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Java Script, HTML, CSS, Ajax, jQuery, Apache Maven, JSP, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, Oracle, Maven, Web Services (SOAP, REST), Eclipse, Log4j. Java/J2EE Developer Colliers International - Minnetonka, MN January 2012 to March 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the application development using Java platform. Model View Control (MVC) structure implementation.  • Responsible for providing the client side JavaScript validations and usage of HTML, JavaScript, XML, JSP, CSS as per the requirements to enhance the Portal UI.  • Used Spring Core for Dependency Injection.  • Mapping of ORM objects to tables using the Hibernate as the persistence framework.  • Involved in different service classes, used across the framework.  • Implementation of Web Services using Axis for the integration of different systems  • Developed applications using J2EE technologies like Spring Boot, Spring MVC on the business layer and the persistent layer using Hibernate as ORM tool.  • Testing of Web Services using the Postman.  • Used HTML, CSS, Spring MVC, JSP, and JQuery, JavaScript, Angular.js in the development and the designing the UI.  • Gradient effects through the development of the CSS style sheets. Developed navigation, icons and layouts.  • Code review and configuration build management for the application using Maven.  • Implementation of business logic, validation Frame Work using Spring Web flow and Spring MVC.  • Implemented Web tier of the application through the usage of Spring MVC framework.  • Implementation of clean separation of layers through the usage of different design patterns like Factory pattern, Singleton and DAO pattern.  • Serialization in the flattening of the objects.  • Used core java concepts like Collections while developing server-side services.  • Data storage using DB2 and used PL/SQL for queries.  • Worked with IBM Web Sphere Application Server Developer Tools for Eclipse by using lightweight set of tools to assemble, develop and deploy Java EE, Web 2.0, and mobile applications.  • Involved with GUI using JSP, Java Script and HTML.  • Involved in using continuous integration tool (CI/CD) Jenkins. Created builds using Maven and pulled the project code from GitHub repositories.  • Experience with Garbage collection and multithreading.  • Experience with Concurrency, Exception Handling, File handling.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Java Script, JSP, HTML, CSS, XML, SOAP, Hibernate, MySql DB, Spring Boot, PL/SQL, Log4j, JQuery, Angular JS, Eclipse,IBM Web Sphere Application server Java Developer Austin, TX June 2009 to December 2011 Responsibilities:  • Designed the application using J2EE patterns and developed Java Beans for business logic.  • Developed the presentation layer using Struts Framework and Responsible for coding all the JSP, Servlets used for the Used Module.  • Developed the JSP, Servlets and various Beans using Websphere 5.x server.  • Wrote Java utility classes common for all of the applications.  • Designed and implemented highly intuitive, user friendly GUI from scratch using Drag and Drop with Java/ Swing and CORBA. Extensively used multithreading concepts.  • Deployed the jar files in the Web Container on the IBM Websphere Server 5.x.  • Hands-on experience in installing, configuring and deploying application on Websphere Portal Server.  • Designed and developed the screens in HTML with client side validations in JavaScript.  • Developed the server side scripts using JMS, JSP and Java Beans.  • Adding and modifying Hibernate configuration code and Java/SQL statements depending upon the specific database access requirements.  • Involved in Database design and development. Involved in SQL scripting. Involved in the system integration and testing.  • Design database Tables, View, Index's and create triggers for optimized data access.  • Developed Web Services using Apache AXIS tool.  • Designing of the system as per the change in requirement using Struts MVC architecture, JSP, DHTML.  Environment: Java 1.2.3, Servlets 2.2, Enterprise Java Beans 1.1, SQL Server, JSP, HTML 4.0, JavaScript, UML, Weblogic 5.1, ASP .net, IIS, MTS, COM Component, Windows NT. Education Bachelor's Skills J2EE (7 years), JAVA (9 years), HTML (9 years), JAVASCRIPT (9 years), APACHE (7 years), Angular Additional Information Technical Skills:    Content Management AEM 5.6.1, 6.1,6.2,6.3, 6.4 Apache Jackrabbit, Apache Sling, OSGI, CRXDE and Apache Felix.  Web Technologies XML,CSS/CSS3, JSON, Angular JS, HTML/HTML5,Linux Shell Script, jQuery.  Languages JAVA/J2EE JavaScript, SQL  Programming HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, Ajax, UNIX Shell Scripting.  Application Servers JBoss, Tomcat, Apache web-server  Databases & Tools Oracle 9i, 10g, SQL Server 2000, 2005 & 2008; IIS 6.0/7.0  Tools RAD, Eclipse, IntelliJ, Rational Rose, NetBeans, Toad, SQL developer  Continuous Integration Software Jenkins, Bamboo  Environment UNIX, IBM AIX 4.3, Sun Solaris 2.7/2.6, MS-DOS 6.22, Windows 95/98/NT/2000/XP.