UI/Mean Stack Developer UI/Mean Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI/Mean Stack Developer - Citi Group Coldwater, MI • 10+ years of IT experience which includes of Experience in developing modern web applications using MEAN(MongoDB, ExpressJS, AngularJS andNode.js)stack software and Experience in UI Design and Development and experience in JAVA/J2EE  • Experience in using various JavaScript Web application related libraries such as Angular.js, Backbone.js, React.js, JQuery, JQuery UI , JQuery Mobile, bootstrap, D3.js, Require.js, Node.js and Ext.js.  • Experience in using Software development methodologies such as Agile and Waterfall.  • Expertise in version control tools like GIT, SVN and TFS to manage and control software development.  • Strong working experience on Responsive, cross Browser compatible and Mobile First Approach.  • Wide experience in using various IDE's, Notepad++, Eclipse, Sublime Text, WebStorm, Brackets, Dreamweaver, and Visual Studio.  • Good knowledge in Angular.js directives to create reusable elements and attributes, along with easy to test and maintain client side interactivity in web applications.  • Working knowledge of integrating Angular.js and React.js with additional custom directives. Also with Backbone.js and React.js to be used for comments sections.  • Knowledge in developing cross platform mobile applications using Apache Cordova/ Phone Gap Platforms with the help of UI Frameworks like Sencha Touch.  • Good experience working with High Traffic Websites.  • Experience with Firebug for Mozilla, IE Developer Toolbar for Internet Explorer, Chrome developer tools.  • Strong Experience in Interpreting graphic visual or interaction designs in HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Experience in creating HTML pages by cutting PSD files in Photoshop.  • Sound knowledge in working with browsers compatibility issues with browsers like IE, Firefox, Safari, Opera, Chrome.  • Good experience with Form Validation by Regular Expression, and JQuery Light box.  • Experience in using JS Unit Testing for client side applications.  • Experience in using Unit.js testing framework along with Jasmine, Karma, Protractor, Mocha, BDD and TDD.  • Strong problem-solving, organizing, communication and planning skills, with ability to work in team environment.  • Experience managing daily communication with an offshore development teams.  • Strong experience in writing and updating the technical documents on daily basis with the changes made to the existing environment on daily basis.  • Excellent interpersonal abilities, communication skills, time management and Team skills with an intention to work hard to attain project deadlines under stressful environments. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UI/Mean Stack Developer Citi Group January 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Created a custom, responsive web application to replace a legacy line-of- business web application using Angular JS.  • Created the logos, icons and images that were used across multiple pages using Adobe Photoshop.  • Developed single page application using Angular.js, node.js, express.js, Mongo DB with ng-view directive.  • Worked on Open Source CMS Drupal to build website using Drupal 7.  • Used JSON for data exchange between client and server.  • Worked on integrating jQuery API's with MVC pattern.  • Designed and developed ReactJS component required for the project.  • Used Polymer for creating Web Components which are used to build a web app.  • Used Asynchronous module definition (AMD) code to define code modules for JavaScript specifications.  • Worked on performance optimization of JavaScript using requireJs AMD format.  • Used PostgreSQL for storing and retrieving Json format data that need to be displayed on Google maps API.  • Extensive knowledge of and use of Angular.js directives to bring additional functionality toHTML.  • Responsible to Style look and feel of the web page with SASS that extends CSS with dynamic behavior such as variable, mixins, operations and functions.  • Used PHP as Scripting language and used MySQL as the database.  • Involved designing in web pages using HTML 5, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript and Angular.js, Node.js, express.js, SASS, Mongo DB extensively.  • Worked on client-side validations for signup and login page by using ng-show to display the errors and also created custom validations.  • Eperienced in using source code control systems such as Jira and Jenkins.  • Implement the application C#, MVC , ReactJS , Amazon Service and Dynamodb.  • Configure and monitor numerous MongoDB and NoSQL instances. MongoDB Schema Design using DB Ref, Manual Ref, Embedded Data Model Design.  • Developed Web Apps compiling SASS and LESS.  • Conceptualized, designed and implemented Android mobile projects.  • Used the new tags from HTML5 like section, article, header, footer, canvas for animations.  • Created Responsive Web Design using Bootstrap.  • Used JS Framework such as AngularJS (for data driven apps) and Backbone.Js (for heavy DOM manipulation.  • Good Experience in HTML5, CSS, and JavaScript from hybrid projects in Android.  • Used Jasmine unit tests (Karma) to verify Angular JS modules and JavaScript utility routines.  • Used Node.js as a proxy to interact with Rest services and also interacting with Database.  • Developed back-end components, connect the application with the other (often third-party) web services, and support the front-end developers by integrating work with the Node.js application.  • Performed client side validations over the forms using JavaScript.  • Developed the front-end framework, monitoring user interfaces using Angular Widgets using Custom directives.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like BackboneJS.  • Used AngularJS multiple in-built directives such as filters, rootscope, childscope, modal, template, state etc.  • Experience in SQLite implementation for Android applications..  • Used Jenkins for build automation and deployment.  • Client side code were written in ReactJS,/JQUERY/JavaScript and Service and service Side Code were developed using MVC4 and C#.  • Used filters like date, Json, uppercase, lowercase to arrange the data that is to be displayed in a particular format.  • Used ng-click to display the image as thumbnail and also for implementation of functions when the button is clicked.  • Built out a new product line in ECMAScript using React, Redux and Rails.  • Involved in agile software methodologies using TEST DRIVEN DEVELOPMENT.  • Designed and developed CSS behaviors, CSS styles, CSS fonts, CSS buttons, Pseudo Classes, Pseudo elements in CSS.  Environment: Angular.js, express.js, JavaScript, jQuery, twitter Bootstrap,Jenkins, Sass, Ajax, HTML5, CSS3, SVN, Sublime, Wordpress , Node.js, Mongo DB, PostgreSQL, React.js, TDD. UI/Mean Stack Developer WellsFargo Charlotte, Partially Remote May 2013 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Created a custom, responsive web application to replace a legacy line-of-business web application using Angular JS.  • Responsible for front-end UI design using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, jQuery plug in.  • Extensive use of Angular.js for developing the SPAs (Single Page Applications) for internal application/tool.  • Developed single page application using angular.js, node.js, express.js, Mongo DB with ng-view directive.  • Used OpenText content Management server provides the core set of tools you need to capture, process and manage unstructured content across your organization including document management, workflow, search and information retrieval services, all tightly integrated into a platform that is easily customized and extended.  • Used ng-repeat for instantiates a template once per item from a collection.  • Developed different jQuery component in MVC framework.  • Used Dreamweaver as editor for designing new pages.  • Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility.  • Experience in developing SEO codes.  • Used Node.js and frameworks available for it such as Express, Strong Loop, etc.  • Used Node.js for development of all server-side logic, definition and maintenance of the central database, and ensuring high performance and responsiveness to requests from the front-end.  • Implemented two way data binding through scope in applications built on AngularJS.  • Used AngularJS multiple in-built directives such as filters, rootscope, childscope, modal, template, state etc.  • Completely redesigned and implemented cross-device data representation tool using d3 and adaptive layouts.  • Responsible for performing Mobile Testing, Mainframe Testing, ETL Testing.  • Used Media Queries for the design to be compatible in all devices.  • Used Node.js for server side web applications for java script codes to build real-time web API's.  • Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using jQuery framework.  • Used grunt as task runner to test the JavaScript with JSHint.  • Used Angular.js for connecting the API's using Angular.js $http service.  • Developed Date Time Picker using Object Oriented JavaScript extensively.  • Used Media Queries to deal with different CSS related issues on different devices as well as website to make it compatible.  • Unit testing is done using jasmine with karma by using karma-jasmine test runner.  • Used AJAX&JSON communication for accessing REST web services  • Followed Agile Methodology (scrum) in the development of the software.  Environment: Angular.js, Node.js, Express.js, Mongo DB, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Ajax, JSON, HTML4, CSS3, Oracle database, Eclipse, Dreamweaver UI Developer Western Union - San Francisco, CA June 2012 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  • Developed dynamic web pages using HTML/HTML4, CSS2/CSS3, jQuery, backbone.js, Bootstrap.  • Extensively involved design discussions and user experience sessions to provide inputs on the layout.  • Used JS Framework such as AngularJS (for data driven apps) and Backbone.Js (for heavy DOM manipulation).  • Worked with banking databases to develop credit score manager.  • Created interactive prototypes and specifications, including color palettes, screen layouts and user-interface elements.  • Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, Backbone.js, Wire-framing, and HTML5.  • Developed front end web applications by writing HTML code with the help of Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques.  • Created design deliverables, such as specifications, templates, storyboards, wireframes, and mock-ups.  • Debugged the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the nodes using DOM and DOM Functions using Firefox and IE Developer Tool bar for IE.  • Involved in the development of pages using Bootstrap framework.  • Used jQuery to perform AJAX to get JSON data from the backend and parse it on the front-end.  • Validated inputs to make sure that they will be accepted before submitting to the server.  • Followed agile methodology.  • Used Mocha and chai for unit testing in Node.js.  • Extensively used jQuery library for visual effects, DOM manipulation and event handling.  • Used GIT for version control.  • Designed REST Web service for handling AJAX Request.  Environment: Backbone.js, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Ajax, JSON, AngularJS, HTML4, CSS2/3, Eclipse, MYSQL, GIT, Action Script 1.0, Photo Impact and GIF Animator. UI Developer January 2010 to May 2012 Responsibilities:  • Communicate with the client to understand the requirement of the website, gained experience in project planning, involved in writing the Project Design Document and Project Plan Document.  • Hands on the process of development, testing and maintenance.  • Participated as a team member in designing the user interface using HTML and CSS to make the interface use-friendly, especially child-friendly.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using JavaScript, JQuery, CSS, and HTML.  • Created and optimized graphic prototype websites and applications interfaces using HTML and CSS.  • Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Developed Custom Tag Libraries for the use in web pages by using JSTL packages for the development of the Web Pages.  • Implemented and designed user interface for web based customer application.  • Developed data formatted web applications and deploy the script using client side scripting using JavaScript.  • Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility and fixed the bugs for several browsers.  • Worked extensively on Spring MVC framework to develop new internal web application.  • Enhanced and built reusable components across different modules using Custom directives and CSclasses.  • Created Responsive Designs (Mobile/Tablet/Desktop) using HTML & CSS, Bootstrap.  • Created Cross-browser compatible.  • Integrated with back end code (PHP) for highly interactive AJAX based applications.  • Maintained 24/7 high volume availability demands using open source tools such as Linux, Apache, PHP, and MySQL.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQUERY, AJAX, JSON, XML, ECLIPSE, SVN, Linux, Apache, PHP, and MySQL. Java/J2ee Developer June 2007 to December 2009 Responsibilities:  • Designed dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML, CSS, jQuery and JavaScript.  • Created Mockups and storyboards for the development of layout to maintain design throughout the site.  • Involved in the analysis, design and development phases of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Used Rational Rose to generate Use case diagrams, Class diagrams and Sequence diagrams that modeled the design details of the application.  • Developed UI screens using JSP, Struts tags and HTML.  • Used Jakarta Struts Framework, based on the Model View Controller architecture for rapid application development and ease of maintenance.  • Used validation framework for client-side validation and Internationalization to support multiple languages.  • Designed tables to access the database in Oracle and involved in writing PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, and Triggers.  • Implemented several design patterns such as Business Delegate, MVC, Singleton and Factory to resolve the most common design issues.  • Encryption and Decryption using symmetric keys.  • Implemented PL/SQL and stored procedures for Oracle9i database.  • Used XML parser APIs like DOM for marshalling and UN marshalling of Data.  • Used MY Eclipse for writing JSPs, Struts, and Other Java code snippets.  • Used J-Unit framework for Unit testing of application and Clear Case for version control.  • Built application using ANT and used Log4J to generate log files for the application  • Performed Client-side validations using JavaScript.  • Performed optimization of SQL Queries and Store Procedures by normalizing tables.  • Worked on developing a REST Web Service for the application.  • Involved in Agile Methodology process.  • Responsible for Cross-browser handling.  Environment: JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, HTML, DHTML, CSS, Java, J2EE , JSP, Struts, Apache Tomcat, EJB, Servlets, JNDI, JMS, Oracle 9i, HTML, XML Web Services, My Eclipse, SOAP, J-Unit, ANT, Rational Rose , LOG4J, Clear Case. SQL. Education Master's Skills MICROSOFT VISUAL STUDIO, VISUAL STUDIO, ANDROID STUDIO, C++, Git, JAVASCRIPT, ANGULAR.JS, BOOTSTRAP, NODE.JS, JSON, SVN, AJAX, ASP, DREAMWEAVER, ASP.NET, TOMCAT, WEBLOGIC, WEBSPHERE, ECLIPSE, J2EE