ServiceNow Lead Developer/Architect ServiceNow Lead <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Architect ServiceNow Lead Developer/Architect - Toyota Tampa, FL • IT professional with total experience of 14+ years of relevant experience in the field of ITSM and Web development. Extensive knowledge and experience in implementation and Administration of ServiceNow, HP Service Manager /Service Center, ASP.NET, VB.NET, C#, Java and Asset Manager.  • Over 5 years of experience as a Service-Now suite developer and administrator  • Over 7 years of experience as a web/integration developer using Microsoft.Net technologies  • Functional knowledge of various ITSM, Oracle SOA and MVC web applications  • Direct hands on experience on various IT Services of Service-Now tool like Service Catalog Requests, Asset Management, Configuration Management, Service-Now Administration, Incident and Problem Management, Knowledge Management, Field Service Management, Project Portfolio Management (PPM), Reporting, Gauges, Integration with Web Services.  • Strong experience in working with ServiceNow orchestration  • Extensive experience in IT Operations Management(ITOM)  • Experience in user provisioning using ServiceNow Orchestration in Microsoft Active Directory  • Provisioned the Amazon EC2 services using ServiceNow Orchestration  • Experience with complex integrations within the ITSM environment such as ServiceNow -Siebel, ServiceNow - Salesforce, ServiceNow - WebService integration with third party application, HP SM- MS exchange, HP SM -HP ScAuto, HP SM -HP uCMDB and HPSM - HP AM.  • Extensively worked with integrations between ServiceNow and third party applications like BMC Remedy, Netcool, Tally, DynaTrace, Moog Soft, Salesforce using SOAP Messages , RESTful and JSON  • Good knowledge of CMDB and Asset Management Services: Business Services and Configuration item relationships.  • Strong experience working in Domain Separated Environments.  • Expertise on creation of workflows for Service Catalog items in Service-Now.  • Have good understanding of Software License Management (SLM)  • Experience implementing the Human Resources Service Management in ServiceNow.  • Experience in working with HR Case Management, HR Tasks, HR Knowledge and policies articles  • Experience in customizing the HR Case Management  • Creating custom Case Categories, Setup Case Approval workflows  • Service-Now Administration and Production support including maintenance of lower life cycle instances.  • Good understanding of object oriented analysis design and application development.  • Deployment Automation and Software delivery using Shell scripting with tools like DSM and ITCM  • Extensive experience in creating and customizing Content Management System (CMS).  • Experience of various phases of SDLC - Requirement Analysis, Design, Code Construction and Test.  • Functional knowledge and implementation experience of ITSM frameworks.  • Hands on experience in web development using HTML, JavaScript, JSON, AJAX and CSS.  • Experience in designing and developing complex web applications based on Oracle ADF  • Created complex UI screens for java and .NET based MVC applications using JavaScript, JQuery, HTML, CSS  • Experience in writing the scripts to parse the JSON response  • Worked on cross browser compatibility issues with layout and styles for all new CSS that was implemented.  • Good experience in application development using Java/J2EE, Microsoft .NET  • Strong team player , ability to work independently and in a team as well, ability to adapt to a rapidly changing environment, commitment towards learning, Possess excellent communication, project management, documentation, interpersonal skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience ServiceNow Lead Developer/Architect Toyota March 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Implemented Bi-directional integration between Service Now and Venafi Trust Protection Platform using REST  • Designed and Developed Integration Frame work to support multiple integrations  • Implemented Bi-directional Integration between Service Now and Verizon using SOAP  • Implemented Onaway Integration between Service Now and RedSeal using Database Integration by creating Import sets and Transform Maps  • Implemented LDAP Integration to load user and group data to Service Now using Import sets and Transform Maps  • Worked with Service Now Event Management by configuring Event Mapping Rules, Event Transform Rules, Alert Rules, Incident Templates.  • Implemented/ Modified Connectors to receive Events from Monitoring tools like HPOM , Netcool, SCOM, Solar Winds and DynaTrace  • Configured SNMP Trap Collector extension to receive events from NetCool Monitoring tool to Service Now Platform  • Lead Helsinki to Jakarta Upgrade.  • Created custom incident mapping rules table and script include to convert alerts to incidents.  • Created various catalog items , record producers and Order guides for onboarding using variables, variable sets, catalog client scripts and catalog UI policies  • Automated HR Training compliance process by creating custom application, workflows with orchestration activities  • Created Power Shell and Unix Scripts which were used by Orchestration and Discovery/  • Provisioned the Amazon EC2 services using ServiceNow Orchestration  • Integrated Service Now with Cheff and Puppet using Orchestration to automate the Server Provisioning and Patch Application Process  • Designed and Developed custom scoped application for Certificate Management process to track Client and Server X509 certificates.  • Designed and Developed custom application for Work Order Management and implemented code to create custom PDF documents using iText API  • Configured Service Now Discovery tool to load configuration items to CMDB. Created Custom Probes, Sensors to load custom attributes. Created Windows PowerShell and Unix Shell scripts  • Integrated with Microsoft SCCM to load Windows Servers into CMDB.  Environment: ServiceNow (Jakarta) , JavaScript, HTML 5, Windows 7. Developer/ Admin, Time ServiceNow - Warner, CA June 2015 to January 2017 Responsibilities:  • Development of Service catalog which includes creating new catalog items, designing workflows and execution plans.  • Created functional and technical specifications documents for various ServiceNow modules  • Implementation, Customization and Maintenance of ITIL modules such as Incident, Change, Problem, Knowledge, Service Catalog, CMDB in ServiceNow  • Involved in cloning activities like raising the request for cloning and excluding some tables to not come under cloning.  • Implemented Single Sign On(SSO) using SAML 2.0  • Experience in user provisioning using ServiceNow Orchestration in Microsoft Active Directory  • Worked on change management module by enhancing the tool to the stakeholders  • Created SOAP and REST messages to communicate with - BMC Remedy, Tally and Salesforce  • Implemented Bi directional integration between Service Now and Salesforce using REST and SOAP Messages. Configured OAuth 2.0 for REST Integration.  • Configured Event Management (ITOM) by configuring Connector Instances and Connector Definitions  • Set up Discovery Module to load Configuration Items and Relationships into Service Now  • Created Event transform Rules, Event Mapping Rules, Alert rules and Event Assignment Rules  • Implemented Web Service Interface between ServiceNow and Salesforce using JSON Web Services.  • Created inbound Scripted Web Services and script includes methods  • Implemented the Human Resources Service Management in ServiceNow.  • Worked on HR Case Management, HR Tasks, HR Knowledge and policies articles  • Customized the Project Portfolio Management(PPM)  • Configured PPM suite and worked on the Customization of the project management  • Worked on the resource management for allocating time for the project users  • Worked on skill management for selecting and loading users or groups according to their technical and non-technical background skills for assigning project tasks  • Implemented a new application called 'Sales Order'.  • Integrated 'Sales Order' application with CRM. Data received from CRM will be loaded into 'Sales Order', which will be used later for creating projects.  • Imported MS Projects into ServiceNow's project table  • Worked on PPM reports and dashboards as per business requirements  • Created inbound Email Actions to create incidents and Service Requests based on incoming emails  • Created Order guides using variables and variable sets.  • Created complex work flows for both standard and nonstandard catalog items.  • Worked on CMS Site by creating both static and dynamic content blocks, pages, navigation menus and themes using CSS, HTML and Jelly.  • Loaded Configuration Items and relationships from excel files into service now using import sets and transform maps.  • Created suggested relationships for configuration items in CMDB.  • Worked on DISCOVERY and set up mid servers and check for the connectivity, Became an expert in troubleshooting Discovery tool.  • Created Asset Modal Categories and Asset Modals to relate Configuration items to Assets. Worked on various Asset Management Modules.  • Created various workflows for retirement of Assets.  • Created various Business Rules, Client Scripts, UI Policies and Data Policies.  • Setup E-Mail and SMS Notifications for incident and change management modules based on events and data changes  • Configured multiple Catalog Items Front-end web / GUI components using JavaScript, CSS, HTML5  • Modified Orchestration activities and catalog items for Amazon EC2 Cloud Formation and Stack Creation.  • Worked on UI Macros to create pages as templates on requirement from the stake holders  • Configured multiple forms for Asset module using Configuration Management Database.  • Creating database views to pull the reports on variables which are being used by catalog items.  • Writing Catalog client scripts and UI policies to make client side changes.  • Configured Data Archiving to improve the search functionality in ServiceNow Platform.  • Created the UI pages to use them in catalog items, Implemented using UI scripts.  • Creating Knowledge articles to document the steps in creating the catalog items.  • Working on different kinds of variables and variable sets.  • Implemented SLAs, ACLs, Catalog Clint Scripts, Catalog UI Policies as per the requirements  • Working on order guides, to arrange them in sequential order to make the user comfortable while raising a request.  Environment: ServiceNow, JavaScript, HTML 5, Windows 7. Developer/Admin ServiceNow - Greenville, NC August 2013 to May 2015 Project Description: Work as production support engineer for ServiceNow system. Involved in integration and changes with regards to the ServiceNow tool. Worked in the Service Catalog, CMS and Incident module customizations along with enhancements.  Responsibilities:  • Assisting client implementing the MSP (Managed Service Provider) instance for Service-Now and domain separation for Service-Now Instances.  • Working with client and functional requirements within ServiceNow.  • Facilitating rollout of new applications and modules.  • Design and implement new functionality using Business Rules, UI Policies, and Access Lists etc.  • Customized SDLC module to manage Software development projects.  • Worked with Verizon E-bonding Integration by modifying OOB Script Includes.  • Customized Work Order Template and Work Order Screens in Field Service Management.  • Created various Catalog Items and Workflows for Field Service Catalog.  • Customized Work Order Flows and Work Task Flows in Field Service Management.  • Created Work Order SLAs, Work Order Task SLAs for Utilities Workers  • Service Catalog and Request Workflow Design and Configuration  • Designing the Content Management System for Varian system which involved layout, CSS and service catalog work.  • Integrated with Active Directory using LDAP for authentication and Loaded users, groups and roles into Service Now.  • Created various workflows for Incident Management, Change Management, Service Requests and SLA's.  • The service we also provide to clients is a semi managed service for administering their Service desks that has been implemented. This includes various administration tasks within Service desk software.  • Created Buttons and context menus both on form and lists using UI actions  • Designed many email templates by using html and jelly scripting and used them in notifications  • Worked with windows team, network team and Asset team in order to check for the data collected through discovery is accurate  • Written script includes and invoked them in business rules and client scripts  • Imported many ci's using import set tables  • Created data sources and loaded the Service-Now tables with different data formats  • Created transform maps both automatic field mapping and scripting  • Also worked on Asset Management and loaded the data into it.  • Integrated Fire eye tool with Service-Now using Email integration i.e. inbound actions scripting.  • Worked on the integration of ServiceNow with Siebel, integrated Service Catalog and Incident module.  • Used JMS integration to fulfill this requirement, worked on Scheduled Jobs and Mid Server Script Includes to fulfill the requirements.  Environment: ServiceNow, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS, XML, HTML, XHTML, Windows 7. Developer ServiceNow June 2011 to July 2013 Responsibilities:  • Discussing the business requirements with clients and documenting them into process requests.  • A Service Now expert with experience on implementing end-to-end Service Catalog, Incident Management , Configuration & Asset Management, Change Management and Release Management with Knowledge of Content management  • Built forms from scratch along with advanced customizations at the level of UIMacros/UI page as per the complex requirements.  • Created a lot of clients scripts/UI policies also with a lot of high-level customizations like attaching a custom events and DOM-injection with JQuery and Prototype.  • Created many standard workflows which are being re-used and propagated and handled many custom events.  • Responsible for the Service Now tool administration module and creation of new Users, Groups, Roles, IT Services, Application, Business Services, Routing rules and Blackout Freeze rules  • Created many scripts which includes, Business rules (server side code) and also modified OOB  • Worked extensively on LDAP integrations. Very good understanding of Integration with these varieties of protocols: SOAP, JDBC, and ODBC.  • Good knowledge on Single Sign on and event based integrations.  • Setting up Configuration Management from scratch defining the CI classes and their relationships.  • Created complex transform scripts in transforming the data into the SNOW database.  • Create generalized framework for repeating problems and incidents.  • Design and Implementation of service requests through service catalogue in service now.  • Creating scheduled tasks, monitoring the ticket queues and generating statistics.  • Working knowledge of Knowledge articles, incidents, CMDB and dictionaries.  • Creating catalogue items, workflows, inbound emails actions and update sets for service requests.  Environment: ServiceNow, JavaScript, HTML 5, Windows 7. Java/J2EE Consultant PCA - Philadelphia, PA November 2008 to June 2010 PCA is one of the largest non-profit organizations in the region. Since 1973 PCA is dedicated to improving the quality life for older Philadelphians or people with disabilities by helping them achieve optimum levels of health, independence, and productivity. This mission is carried through advocacy, fund administration, planning, program development, and service coordination.  CCAI (Community Choice Assessment Instrument) is a web based Assessment system for Assessors, Nurses and Supervisors to assess the mental and physical condition of older people. Assessors can use this instrument online or offline as they go to the field. Synchronization is done between the Oracle Server Database in the Network and Local Access Database. When they check-out the consumer all the data from Oracle server is transferred to local access database. When check-in all the data from local Access data base to Oracle. Red Inking, Blank Merging also implemented.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the design and development of the web components using Velocity, Struts, Custom Tags, and Tiles.  • Designed Class models compatible to UML standards using Microsoft Visio for Solution Architects.  • Involved in Designing Front End screens for the application. Consumed XML Web services to communicate with remote business components and as well with applications.  • Involved in the design and development of the web components using Velocity, Struts, Custom Tags, Tiles  • Created some UI screens using HTML and JavaScript, JQuery, CSS.  • Designed and Implemented Hibernate as Data Access Layer for efficient database management and caching  • Developed and implemented Junit Tests.  • Added new functionality to admin console to create and update rebalance, reconciliation of reports  • Involved in the design and development of Web Services using Java to get data from advice database, real- time cancellations and real-time enrollments  • Developed PL/SQL Packages, Procedures, Triggers, Cursors and Functions according to the requirement  • Created stored procedures in Oracle database to eliminate dynamic sql statements used in advice application and made appropriate changes to the application to call these stored procedures  • Created JMS component adapters to interact with the Oracle database.  • Worked on SQL queries, SQL Tuning, PL/SQL Tuning & Performance Tuning  • Implemented logging using log4j  • Done the unit testing and system Integration testing  • Involved in the defect tracking, fixing and enhancements  • Implemented Transaction processing using multithread.  • Developed various helper classes needed following Core Java multi-threaded programming and Collection classes.  • Developed both front end user interface screens as well as database design.  • Implemented stored procedures using JDBC.  • Developed Cache Manager which will cache all the schemas and XSLTs.  Environment: Service Center 6.2, Service Manager 7.11, Oracle, Windows XP.ASP.NET, C#, VB.NET and Visual Studio Web Developer, Bayada Nurses NJ November 2006 to October 2008 Responsibilities:  • Developed and deployed WebServices in C# using custom server side XmlStreamSoapExtension which is using .NET Soap Extenstions  • Developed and deployed windows service which will log all the requests and responses into a database using MSMQ.  • Developed Rich UI using JSP, HTML5/DHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, and jQuery for user friendly interface.  • Worked on XML Parsing (DOM/SAX), XML Schemas/DTD  • Implemented code for loading and testing of mock data in Core Java  • Provided custom validations in Client-side Validations using Java Script.  • Used AJAX for the asynchronous communication to the server.  • Involved in writing stored procedures and SQL Queries.  • Extensively used standard design patterns MVC, Session Façade, Business Delegate, DAO, View Helper etc. in various stages of the project development  • Queries written in SQL to implement complex join operations, invoked stored procedures using CallableStatements in JDBC API.  • Creation of UML diagrams, design documents, user interfaces and development of code.  • Developed a windows test application which will test the WebServices using MSXML2 with XML over Http.  • Developed CacheManager which will cache all the schemas and XSLTs.  Environment: Service Center 6.2, Service Manager 7.11, Oracle, Windows XP.ASP.NET, C#, VB.NET and Visual Studio Java/J2EE Consultant Bank of America June 2005 to October 2006 The objective of Personnel Management System was to facilitate the Personnel department of the organization for salary calculation, reimbursements & other HR activities. Employees worldwide could enter their time sheets, expense sheets on the net.  Responsibilities:  • Work on Hibernate for mapping Java classes with database and using Hibernate query language  • Familiarized in the various aspects of Agile Methodologies such as Scrum and estimating various tasks.  • Used various design patterns such as factory, singleton, session façade, DAO and DTO, Service Locator, Transaction management  • Involved in developing WebServices using SOAP for sending and getting data from external interface  • Involved in requirement gathering, requirement analysis, defining scope, and design  • Worked with various J2EE components like Servlets, JSPs, EJBs, JNDI, JDBC using, Web Logic Application server  • Involved in developing and coding the interfaces and classes required for the application and created appropriate relationships between the system classes and the interfaces provided  • Assisting project managers with drafting use case scenarios during the planning stages.  • Developing the Use Cases, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams using Rational Rose  • Used Java Script for client side Validation  • Used HTML, AWT with Java Applets to create web pages  • Deployed servlets and JSP pages using Apache Tomcat server  Environment: Java, J2EE, JDBC, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AWT, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Oracle, JSON, Apache Tomcat, JBuilder, Web Logic Java Developer Citi Bank January 2004 to June 2005 The process of invoice receipt and payment, coupled with bank account reconciliation is an intensely manual operation that is in need of change. Credit cards eliminates the need for the customer to originate a purchase order, handle and process our invoices, cut checks, pay banking fees, and reconcile monthly statements. The new process automates the credit card processing and handles all transactions for Training, Documentation, Furnish Only and Repairs and Return. This System will send all card transactions to clearing bank, Chase Merchants Services, automatically, eliminating the invoice document. Upon shipment of the product and /or service, receipts for the credit card transaction will be mailed to customers.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing JSP  • Implemented SOAP Web service consumer service.  • Involved in development of middle layer business methods, which incorporated the core business functionality.  • Managed integration environment by Clear case, to incorporate day to day code check-ins in the project.  • Implemented Service Locator, Data Transfer Object Design patterns.  • Involved in developing the applications using Spring framework for dependency Injection (Inversion of Control)  • Creating and deploying the EAR application file into IBM WebSphere 7.0 Application Server  • Modeling the Database by using Hibernate in DAO's. Education Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science Kakatiya University - Warangal, AP, IN Masters in Computers and Information Science Cleveland State University Skills JAVASCRIPT (10+ years), HTML (9 years), WINDOWS 7 (6 years), JAVA (6 years), XML (5 years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Technical Skills  • ITSM Tools: Service-Now, ITSM Suite, HP Service Manager, HP Asser Manager  • Languages: C, C++, Java, J2EE, HTML, XML, JavaScript, SQL  • Databases: Oracle 10g, SQL Server 2005  • Application Servers: IIS 5.0, Apache, Tomcat, Weblogic    • Operating Systems: Windows 7, Windows 2008/XP, UNIX  • J2EE: JSP, Servlets, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, JNDI, JMS