Fullstack Java Developer Fullstack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Fullstack Java Developer - Hanger Inc Livingston, NJ • Around 10+ years of progressively responsible experience in development, testing, documentation & production support applications using Internet, Web and Client Server Technologies in N-Tier J2EE Architecture  • Expertise through all parts of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) in developing web applications using JAVA, J2EE, EJB, Web services, SOA, SOAP, RESTful etc.  • Extensive hands-on experience with core expertise in design, development, and deployment of N-Tier enterprise applications for the J2EE platform using Core Java, Servlets, Struts, Spring, EJB, JSP, Web services, JPA, JNDI, JMS, JAXP, JUnit, JMeter.  • Expertise in Spring framework, including Spring IoC/core, Spring DAO support, Spring ORM, Spring microservices , Spring AOP, Spring Security, Spring MVC, Spring Cache, and Spring Integration, and Spring Boot, Spring REST , Spring Eureka, Spring Ribbon, Spring Netflix, Spring Zuul.  • Hands on experience in Front-End technologies like Angular Js 1.4.7, Bootstrap 3.1, HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3, Jquery, Google Web Toolkit (GWT), Tag Libraries, Custom Tags, Ajax and Node Js, Ext Js.  • Expertise in designing, developing and deploying applications using J2EE technologies including Servlets, JSP, EJB 2.x/3.x, JSTL, Struts, Spring 3.5, JMS, AJAX, JDBC, JNDI, Java Beans Hibernate and Web Services.  • Experience in XML related technologies like XML, DTD, XSL, XSLT, XPATH, JAXB, JAXP, SAX and DOM.  • Extensively worked to build Model-View-Controller (MVC) and multi-tier client/server architecture using design patterns like DAO, DTO (Data Transfer object), Singleton and Session Façade.  • Experience in using various Amazon Web Services (AWS) Components like EC2 for virtual servers, S3.  • Good working knowledge of NoSQL Database, MongoDB.  • Worked on Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) such as Apache Axis web services, uses SOAP, WSDL. Exposure to JAXB & JAX-WS & JAX-RS.  • Experience in writing SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, views with the major databases like Oracle 9i to 11g, SQL, PL/SQL, MS Access.  • Experiences in Data Modeling, Dimensional Modeling of large databases.  • Good experience in Information Technology field as a SQL server developer with strong expertise in SQL server development, designing Stored Procedures/Transact SQL coding.  • Hands on Experience in Installing, Configuring, Managing, Monitoring and Troubleshooting SQL server [ ]  • Expert in creating complex Stored Procedures, User Defined Functions, and effective Triggers to facilitate efficient data manipulation and data integrity.  • Strong experience in UNIX & Linux Shell scripting Bash, Perl scripting.  • Worked with Cloud foundry is well-suited to continuous delivery as it supports the full application development lifecycle, from initial development through all testing stages to deployment.  • Worked with Version Control Systems like GIT, WinCVS, CVS, SVN, VSS and Rational Clear Case.  • Experience in SDLC, Agile (SCRUM) Methodology, Iterative, Waterfall, and Object Oriented Application Design.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing and generating of test cases for web applications using JUnit, Log4J.  • Strong command on Bug tracking tools like Bugzilla and other like Quality Center.  • Good Experience on Swing single thread programming model and having a graphical presentation and code structure of Swing based GUI.  • Extensive experience in Object Relation mapping using Hibernate.  • Experience with Application Servers like IBM WebSphere 6.x/5.x/7.0, Oracle/BEA WebLogic9.x/8.x/7.x/6.x, JBoss and Tomcat  • Good Knowledge on lifecycle management, transactional, content processing, documentation management, content consolidation and content based application using IBM Filenet scalable software.  • Highly proficient in designing n-tier Enterprise application with J2EE design patterns like IOC (Inversion of Control), AOP (Aspect Oriented Programming), MVC, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Session Façade, DTO, DAO, Front Controller, Factory and Singleton.  • Good knowledge in working with Collections API, Multithreading and OOPs technologies  • Strengths include excellent interpersonal and communication skills, the ability to provide solutions from a functional and technical perspective, meet deadlines, quickly build client rapport and be a team player. Work Experience Fullstack Java Developer Hanger Inc January 2016 to Present Responsibilities  • Actively involved in Analysis, Design, Development, System Testing and User Acceptance Testing. Successfully followed agile methodology in the Scrum Cycle model.  • Designed and developed Microservices using REST framework and Spring Boot and used Bootstrap along with AngularJS in creating the Application.  • Used NodeJS for doing non-blocking design operation for server side code and Angular.js framework in developing various UI components.  • Developed the responsive UI web pages using XHTML, jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Angular JS 2, JavaScript, node JS and has worked with Angular JS filters in expressions and directives to filter data in the UI.  • Extensively used MVC, Factory, Delegate and Singleton design patterns.  • Used Spring framework including Spring core/IoC, Spring Web, Spring Security and implement the authentication, authorization, and access-control features by using Spring Security.  • Used Spring Inversion of Control (IoC) for injecting the beans and reduced the coupling between the classes and implemented the Model View Controller using Spring MVC.  • Implemented the application using SpringBoot Framework and handled the security using Spring Security.  • Microservices have been built using spring boot, Netflix OSS, spring cloud and deploying to AWS Cloud.  • Application and developed cross browser and multi browser compatible web pages using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap.  • Implemented code according to create AngularJS Controller, which isolate scopes perform operations.  • Implemented REST based web services using JAX-RS annotations, Jersey provider and consumed using HTTP services from angular JS modules.  • Responsible for setting up AngularJS framework for UI development.  • Used Spring framework to provide loose coupling between different application modules.  • Developed Hibernate with Spring Integration as the data abstraction to interact with the database of MongoDB.  • Developed single page applications, components using Angular JS directives, controllers, view and routing, service modules.  • Used Microservices to communicate using synchronous protocols HTTP and REST for implementing SOA.  • Worked with NoSQL database Mongo DB and worked with it to perform many different operations.  • Used Cassandra for achieving denormalization through features like collections.  • Developed unit tests with JUNIT and Mockito. Write automated regression tests using JMeter.  • Developed build tasks to run the unit tests on Jenkins and maintaining separate build in Maven for the module for easy integration to the portal build and configure with Jenkins.  • Wrote Jasmine unit tests using Karma to verify AngularJS modules and JavaScript utility routines.  • Worked in all the modules of the application which involved front-end presentation logic developed using, JSP and Java Script, Middleware layer using Servlet and Controllers, Business objects developed using Page Beans and data access layer using iBatis and Hibernate framework.  • Worked on UI for Layered Security and S&L modules and hands on experience with Spark streaming to receive real time data using Kafka.  • Worked closely with QA team and fixed QA bugs with a quick turnaround time.  • Focused on Test Driven Development; thereby creating detailed Unit tests for every single piece of functionality before actually writing the functionality.  • Cloud Foundry is the leading multi-cloud application development and deployment platform and it supports continuous integration.  • Used Rational Application Developer (RAD), which is based on Eclipse, to develop and debug application code.  • Used Apache Maven for project management and building the application.  • Used Log4j utility to generate run-time logs and used Clear Case for project management and version management.  • Involved in Administration of theSQL Server by creating users & login ids with appropriate roles & grant privileges to users and roles.  • Involved in performance tuning of T-SQL queries and Stored Procedures.  • Write T-SQL statements for retrieval of data and Involved in performance tuning of T-SQL queries and Stored Procedures.  • Use the SQL Analyzer, and Profiler for studying the SQL statements and procedures  Environment: J2EE, Java 1.8, Spring framework, Spring MVC, Hibernate, JSP, AJAX, SOA, Web Services, SQL Server, Microservices, XML, Ext JS, NodeJS, JQuery, JavaScript, IBM RAD 9.1, Websphere 8.5, Agile Methodology, Design Patterns, Clear Case, Apache Maven, Apache Cassandra, MongoDB, JUnit, Html, Unit, XSLT, HTML/DHTML, JENKINS, Spark, Kafka. FullStack Developer Exelon Corp June 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering and understanding the system requirements by interacting with clients.  • Generated the Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams extensively for all the process flows using RAD, MS VISIO and Creatly.  • Designed and developed GUI screens for user interfaces using JSP, JavaScript, XSLT, AJAX, XML, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JQuery and DHTML.  • Extensively involved in coding with Core Java concepts like Collections, Exception Handling, Multithreading, Java I/O, and Generics to implement some business logic.  • Used Core, Context, and Security, Bean modules of Spring Framework.  • Implemented MVC, Singleton, Factory, DAO, Value Object, session, Facade, Data Access Object, Business Object paradigm.  • Configured the XML files for Hibernate 3 and applied its Object Relational Mapping ORM to enable the data transactions between POJO and Oracle Database using caching on Session Factory as well as caching on query.  • Used JQuery framework for creating front end applications and for Client Side validations.  • Used iBatis for designing, developing and maintain the data layer.  • Consumed SOAP Services with Apache CXF as runtime engine.  • Worked on Marshalling and Un marshalling the XML using JAXB.  • Worked on JMS and Messaging Queue (MQ) configurations.  • Experience in developing Web Services using - SOAP, WSDL and developing DTDs, XSD schemas for XML (parsing, processing, and design)  • Extensively worked for deployment, configurations of application on WEBSPHERE server and WEBSPHERE PORTAL for Integration of all modules.  • Used Eclipse IDE for the development of application and having sound knowledge on shortcut keys.  • Used Gradle as a build tool and Jenkins for continuous integration process.  • Used CVS for project and version management.  • Created Stored Procedures, SQL Statements and triggers for the effective retrieval and storage of data into database.  • Application developed on Agile methodologies scrum and iterative method process.  • Used Apache Log4J logging API to log errors and messages.  • Created JUnit test suite to automate the testing of the business logic.  • Used Selenium Web Driver and written test cases in Java for integration testing.  • Involved in 24x7 support, Maintenance and enhancement of the application.    Environment: JDK 1.7, Spring framework, XML, HTML, JSP, AngularJS, Hibernate, iBatis, ANT, JavaScript, VSS, XSLT, CSS, AJAX, JMS, SOAP, Web Services, AWS, Web Sphere Application Server, Tomcat, Oracle DB, MQ Series, Junit, UNIX. Java/J2EE Developer Gap Inc - San Francisco, CA September 2012 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  • Design and implemented the backend layer using Hibernate.  • Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing Spring Inversion of Control (IOC) architecture and Hibernate.  • Applied design patterns including MVC Pattern, Façade Pattern, Abstract Factory Pattern, DAO Pattern and Singleton.  • Made use of content negotiation (XML, JSON, text/plain) using JAXB, GSON, Jackson, and XStream.  • Extensively used JMX API for management and monitoring solutions.  • Involved in developing front end screens using JSP, JSTL, DHTML, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript.  • Developed Web services to allow communication between applications through SOAP over HTTP using Apache Axis2.  • Implemented Hibernate for data persistence in Workflow screens. Used RAD6, WSAD as IDE for development of the application. Worked with Weblogic, Tomcat as the application servers and JMS as the message Server.  • Performed Clear Quest defects, Database change requests logging using Clear Quest. Used Perforce as versioning system.  • Developed RESTful services using Jersey, JAX-RS and Restlet to call third party vendors  • Developed the automation environment for build, deployment, and configuration of Portlets onto the IBM websphere portal server using ANT scripts, XML Access scripts and JACL scripts.  • Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection and integrated with the EJB 3.0 using annotations.  • Generated Hibernate XML files for the configured beans. The business logic was written in EJB DAOclasses and the service layer classes were configured in Spring-service.xml.  • Configured spring managed beans and their scopes.  • Implemented services that would route messages to different JMS queues based on message properties. These messages would be picked up by the appropriate ESB service which would in turn call the third party partner web services (both RESTful and SOAP).  • Configured and built Spring MVC application on Tomcat web server.  • Worked on UNIX Shell scripts and Cron jobs.  • Investigate, debug and fixed potential bugs or defects in the implemented code.  • Implemented junit tests and mandated 90% min. code coverage.  • Designed builds which can grow and support builds using Gradle.  • Develop named HQL queries and Criteria queries for use in application.  • Implemented transaction management for ORM project using Spring Transaction Management API.  • Created and built project using Maven.  • Created Stored Procedures and other SQL scripts using PL-SQL.  • Implemented logging using log4j and Spring AOP.  • Implemented various cross-project functionalities using Spring AOP.  • Configuring the service on Weblogic/WASapplication server for successful deployment  • Modeled Flows with different flow state types.  • Used source control, used as plugin in eclipse.  • Involved in requirement gatherings and prototype development.  • Provide post production support for the project during business hours.    Environment: Solaris, JSP, JSF, Spring, Servlet, Hibernate, JMS, JCA, JMX, XML, CSS, XML Schema, AJAX (JQUERY, AJAX), JSON, JAXP, SAX, DOM, JAXB, Java Portlet Specifications, JAX-RPC, SAAJ, SOAP, Java script, PL/SQL, D/HTML, XHTML, Maven, Log4j, JUnit, Weblogic 8.0, Oracle 9i RDBMS, Mercury Quality Center 9.0, Eclipse 3.2. Java/J2EE Developer Marsh & McLennan Company, NJ October 2010 to August 2012 Responsibilities:    • Responsible for analysis, design, development and integration of UI components with backend using J2EE technologies such as Servlets, Java Beans and JSP.  • Using Technologies like SOAP, WSDL and UDDI based Web Services.  • Developed Hibernate 3.0 in Data Access Layer to access and update information in the database.  • Designed the workflow, system architecture, drawing sequence diagrams, activity diagrams, class diagrams, HTML pages, database schema and tables.  • Writing JSP's for user interfaces, JSP's uses Java Beans objects to produce responses.  • Involved in Tomcat server configuration for deployment.  • Used JUnit framework for Unit testing of application.  • Used log4j 1.2 to log different types of messages to write on to the proprietary log model.  • Use Case, Class, Sequence diagrams and also in complete development, testing and maintenance process of the application  • Store persistent JMS messages or temporarily store messages sent using the store-and-forward feature.  • Involved in testing the XML files and checked whether data is parsed and loaded to staging tables.  • Store persistent JMS messages or temporarily store messages sent using the store-and-forward feature.  • Used Hibernate to persist and retrieve data from database.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, JSP, Servlet, XML Schema, SOAP, Javascript, PL/SQL, DHTML, XHTML, Ant 1.6, Log4j, JUnit, Weblogic10.0, Oracle 11g, Wsdl, IBM Rational rose, Maven, Eclipse, XSD. Java Developer October 2008 to September 2010 Responsibilities:  • Preparing the documentation for High Level design, Low Level design of the application and Process Flow of control for the entire application.  • Played key role in the design for the implementation of this application.  • Implemented the Consolidated applications front-end pages using JSP, JSTL, and Struts Tag Libraries.  • Used JavaScript for client side validations. Used JUnit for unit testing of the system and Log4J for logging  • Implemented validation rules using Struts framework.  • Designed the Web application implementing the Struts framework for Model-View -Controller (MVC) pattern to make it extensible and flexible.  • Used Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping.  • Used Hibernate for Database Persistence to perform CRUD operation like insert, update, retrieve.  • Used extensive JavaScript for creating the Global templates that can be used across the JSP Pages.  • Configured Logger, appender and layout using log4j.  • Used Eclipse Integrated Development Environment (IDE) in entire project development.  • Used Ant for building JAR and WAR for the application.    Environment: Servlets, JSP, EJB, Struts, Hibernate, JNDI, HTML, CSS, XML, Junit, DOM, SAX, ANT, Web logic Server, Oracle9i. Skills ANT (7 years), Apache (6 years), DHTML (8 years), Eclipse (10+ years), Html (10+ years), J2EE (7 years), Java (10+ years), JavaScript (10+ years), JAX (5 years), JMS (5 years), jQuery (6 years), JSP (10+ years), JUNIT (10+ years), Maven (7 years), Oracle (5 years), Servlet (7 years), SOAP (5 years), SQL (8 years), Websphere (6 years), XML (10+ years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages: Java/J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, Perl, UML, XML, XSL, XSLT, jQuery  J2EE Standards: JDBC, JNDI, Java Mail, JTA  Web Technologies: JSP, Servlet, JAX-WS, AXIS, REST (JAX-RS), SOA, SOAP, JMS, Bootstrap, EJB, Angular-JS, RMI, IBM MQ Series  Databases: Oracle, MySQL, Sybase, SQL-Server-2008, Mongo-DB  IDE's: Eclipse, Netbeans, Intellij, Sublime, RAD, WSAD  Web/App Servers: WebSphere Application Server, WebLogic, JBoss, Apache Tomcat  Frameworks: Struts, Node-JS, Spring, JSF, Hibernate, Apache Camel    Operating Systems: Windows, UNIX, Solaris, Red Hat, AIX  Version Control Tools: CVS, SVN, Git, ClearCase  Tools/Utilities: Log4j, Ant, JUnit, Caliber, Maven, Gradle 2.1, Jenkins, SOAPUi    Methodologies: Agile (Scrum, TDD), Waterfall