Salesforce Admin/ Developer Salesforce Admin/<span class="hl">Developer</span> Salesforce Admin/ Developer - National Oilwell Varco Buffalo, NY • Over 8+ Years of IT experience that includes 4+ years of experience in Salesforce.com CRM Platform and 4 years of experience in Java technologies. Involved in various stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including business analysis, requirement gathering, design, development, enhancements, testing, deployment and maintenance of applications.  • Experience in Force.com Apex Classes, Apex triggers, Visual Force, Batch Apex, Integration, REST, SOAP based Web Services, Force.com API, SOQL and SOSL, Sales force AppExchange and JAVA and C#.  • Worked on Lightning Process builder flows, Connect API, Chatter and quick Action.  • Experience in SFDC Administrative tasks like creating Profiles, Permission Sets, Roles, Users, Record Types, Email Services, Reports, Dashboards, Tasks and Actions.  • Good Experience on Salesforce Lightning. Experience in third party integration with ERP (Marketing Cloud, Service Cloud).  • Experience in Administration, Configuration, Implementation, Lightning and Support of Salesforce CRM.  • Hands on experience in implementing security and sharing rules and Apex Language.  • Experience in creating Validation Rules, Approval Process, Workflows for automated lead routing, lead escalation and email alerts.  • Experience in designing various Webpages in Visualforce. Developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes, Extensions and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Experience in using Force.com Explorer to browse data model schema, custom objects, fields, and to build and test SOQL queries.  • Good knowledge in Unit Testing, Test Coverage and Code Review.  • Involved in Deployment of applications in all environments, Dev, UAT, and Production.  • Excellent written and verbal communication skills to keep stake holders and team members apprised of goals, project status, and resolving issues and conflicts.  • Excellent client management skills, presentation skills, operational metrics, and time management.  • Working experience with Selenium WebDriver. Work Experience Salesforce Admin/ Developer National Oilwell Varco - Houston, TX April 2017 to Present National Oilwell provides world's most advanced Rig and Wellbore systems. They also provide Completion and Production solutions that have the expertise to help customers complete projects on target, delivering new levels of productivity.    Responsibilities:  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, related lists, and other components on record pages by defining lookup and master-detail relationships on the objects and created junction objects to establish connectivity among objects.  • Maintained field level security.  • Developed Salesforce.com approval workflow with tasks from interview schedules and approvals for further interviews finally resulting into offers.  • Involved in creating user roles and Hierarchy.  • Developed Visualforce pages to change the entire look and feel, tabs and views of the Salesforce.com UI in accordance with the company requirements.  • Developed SOQL and SOSL queries to get data from different related objects.  • Moved data into different sandboxes in the organization by writing the component list.  • Performed detailed analysis of business and technical requirements and designed the solution by customizing various standard objects of Salesforce.com (SFDC) and using other Platform based technologies like Visualforce, Force.com API, and Web Services.  • Made new feature enhancements on Service cloud console view and developed some Visual force components  • Wrote triggers to process incoming service e-mail requests from customers to automatically create new case records.    Environment: Salesforce.com, Apex, Visual force, triggers, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Sandbox Data  loading, Sandbox data loading, workflow, validation rules, SOSL, SOQL, AppExchange, data loader, report, dashboard,  Force.com IDE Salesforce Developer/Admin Global Shop Solutions October 2015 to March 2017 Global shop solutions provide One-System ERP software designed to simplify the manufacturing process. Their software is used in various industries including oil and gas manufacturing, electronics manufacturing, aerospace manufacturing, medical device manufacturing etc.    Responsibilities:  • Interacted with various business user groups for gathering the requirements for Salesforce implementation and documented the Business and Software Requirements.  • Worked with Integration and web services.  • Designed various HTML Email templates for Auto-Response to customers.  • Integrated Sales force with legacy systems using Apex Web services and outbound messaging.  • Moved Data into different sandboxes in the organization by writing the custom components.  • Use Data Loader to insert, update, and bulk import or export of data from Salesforce.com objects  • and to read, extract and load data from comma separated values (CSV) files.  • Implemented Apex Triggers with SOQL queries.  • View, create and associate Jira issues with salesforce.  • Worked on various salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Opportunity, Products.  • Involved in Regression Testing using Selenium  • Involved in Functional Testing, GUI Testing and Compatibility Testing.  • Worked on Opportunity Line Items, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, Activities, Reports and Dashboards.  • Extensively worked on building complex Visual force pages using standard, custom and extension controllers to suit the needs of the application.    Environment: Salesforce.com, Apex, Visual force, triggers, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Sandbox Data  loading, Integration Techniques, Sandbox data loading, workflow, Selenium, validation rules, SOSL, SOQL, AppExchange,  data loader, report, dashboard, Force.com IDE Salesforce Developer/Admin Experian - Allen, TX June 2014 to September 2015 Experian is a global leader in consumer and business credit reporting and marketing services. Experian unlocks the power of data to create opportunities for consumers, businesses and society. They gather, analyze and process data and help individuals take financial control and access financial services, businesses make smarter decision and thrive,  lenders lend more responsibly, and organizations prevent identity fraud and crime.    Responsibilities:  • Designed, setup and maintained Salesforce standard objects, custom objects and junction objects, while also structuring user roles, profiles and workflow rules.  • Ensured data integrity through the appropriate use of loading and exporting tools, for bulk of data using Data Loader.  • Developed reports, dashboards, and processes to continuously monitor data quality and integrity. Onsite point of contact for salesforce for the inside sales team.  • Upgraded some Apps from Salesforce Classic to Lightning Experience to develop rich user interface and better interaction of pages.  • Working on a large-scale complex Salesforce development projects along with integrating data from other systems.  • Worked on Connected Apps in Salesforce.  • Created multiple Lightning Components, added CSS and Design Parameters that makes the Lightning component look and feel better.  • Configured Outlook integration with salesforce and Integrated Salesforce with Microsoft Outlook to synchronize contacts, events and tasks.  • Empowered the company by quickly learning administration and implementing workflows, schemes, custom fields, and dashboards.  • Created and implemented workflow optimizing Owners, Queues, Statuses, and Environment  • Associate Salesforce objects to Jira issues, push and pull changes to/from Salesforce.  • Provided daily user support in managing users, creating and maintaining custom objects and fields, handling data migration and maintenance of page layouts.  • Experienced in schedulable Apex classes, Apex sharing rules, Email Services according to the functional needs of the application.  • Well maintained Test Code Coverage and Unit testing for all the codes in the system following the Salesforce limits. Identified test cases for automation in Selenium.  • Automated the test scripts using Maven-Selenium Project in Eclipse Editor.  • Tested apps by appending multiple components to a Lightning Application thereby deployed Applications from Sandbox to Production.  • Involved throughout life cycle of the project. Implemented triggers, Visualforce pages and Components.  • Performed the roles of Salesforce.com Developer and Administrator in the organization.  • Worked on cross platform usage of the project functionality using Lightning.  • Used Salesforce1 Simulator to test if lightening component works on the simulator.  Environment: Salesforce.com, Apex, Visual force, triggers, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Sandbox Data  loading, Integration Techniques, Lightning experience, Lightning components, Sandbox data loading, workflow  validation rules, SOSL, SOQL, AppExchange, data loader, Selenium, report, dashboard, Force.com IDE Java Developer Hartford Life Insurance - Hartford, CT February 2013 to May 2014 Design & development of Hartford Life Insurance's "Agent Based System (ABS)", a web application that allows Insurance agents to search for customer details, manage policies and purchase quote for a customer. Agents can access web-based applications through an in-house browser. This app allows agents to access what they need conveniently on-the- go.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - design, coding, testing, and documentation using Rational Unified Process (RUP) for analysis and design of application.  • Developed UI using HTML, JSF, JQuery and JavaScript, AJAX in few applications.  • Developed CSS sheets for developing user aesthetic UI components.  • Developed Web applications in MVC architecture using Spring framework.  • Implemented logging in the application using Spring Framework AOP module to know the application status. Used Spring DAO module for performing CRUD operations on database.  • Used Spring IoC design pattern to provide relation between application components.  • Separated application configuration and dependency specification from actual application code.  • Developed SOAP Web service modules based on SOA architecture to consume services.  • Called external applications using Web Services for delivering notifications.  • Used JAXB parser for parsing the valid XML files as defined by the XSD.  • Used JMS API to access the queues, read and write the messages for processing.  • Worked on JUnit for creating test cases for all the Business Rules and the application code.  • Worked on setting up the basic project setup from scratch using Spring-Hibernate based design.  • Worked on JPA as persistence layer, involving EJB 3.1 annotations to synchronize with database through XML.  • Deployed the application in JBoss Application Server.  • Used ANT scripts to fetch, build, and deploy application to development environment.  • Used CVS as version control.  • Interacted with application testers to review system defects and provided comprehensive fixes  Environment: J2EE1.4, Struts 1.1, JSP1.2, Servlets 2.3, JMS, XML, JDBC, JavaScript, SQL, UML, HTML, JNDI, Log4J,  Web Logic Application Server, Eclipse, Rational Rose, Oracle. Java Intern IT Ion Solutions Lmtd - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2009 to December 2012 Responsibilities:  • Part of the team which was responsible for designing and developing the application in n-tier fashion as per struts based MVC architecture standards.  • Object Oriented Analysis and Design using UML include development of class diagrams, Sequence diagrams, and State diagrams and implemented these diagrams in Microsoft Visio.  • Designed and created Java objects, JSP pages, JSF, JavaBeans and Servlets to achieve various business functionalities. Created validation methods using JavaScript and Backing Beans.  • Involved in writing client-side validations using Java Script, CSS.  • Involved in designing test plans, test cases and overall Unit testing of the system.  • Developed controllers and actions encapsulating the business logic.  • Developed classes to interface with underlying web services layer.  • Designed web services for the above modules.  • Prepared documentation and participated in preparing user's manual for the application.    Environment: J2EE1.4, Struts 1.1, JSP1.2, Servlets 2.3, JMS, XML, JDBC, JavaScript, SQL, UML, HTML, JNDI, Log4J,  Web Logic Application Server, Eclipse, Rational Rose, Oracle. Education Bachelor's Skills HTML (6 years), ECLIPSE (6 years), JAVA (4 years), JAVASCRIPT (4 years), ORACLE (4 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    • Salesforce Technologies- Salesforce Certified, Salesforce CRM, Apex Language, Apex Classes, Apex Triggers, SOQL, SOSL, Visual Force Pages, Workflow & Approvals, Dashboards, Lightning Experience, Analytic Snapshots, Custom Objects.  • ETL/Integration Tools-Eclipse Force.com IDE Plug-in, Connector, Data loader, Force.com  • Languages-Apex, C#, Java, HTML, JavaScript, HTML, SQL  • Operating Systems-Windows NT / 2000 / XP Pro / Vista, Windows Server 2000 / 2003 / 2008.  • Database-MS SQL Server 2000/2005, PL/SQL, RDBMS, Oracle 8i/9i/10g, MS Access, and MySQL  • Documenting Tool-MS Office