Sr. Salesforce developer/Admin Sr. Salesforce <span class="hl">developer</span>/Admin Sr. Salesforce developer/Admin - Indianapolis Indianapolis, IN • Having 8+ years of IT professional Experience in application software Designing, Development, Testing and Implementation into Salesforce CRM platform both as Developer and as Administrator.  • Having good knowledge of all phases of SDLC with expertise in Requirement Gathering, Analysis, Designing, Development and Testing.  • Experience in SFDC Development in implementing Apex classes, Triggers, Visual Force, Force.com IDE, SOQL, SOSL  • Acquainted and well versed with CRM processes like Sales, Marketing, Customer Service and Customer Support, Business Processes and recommended solutions to improve their processes using SFDC.  • Experience in realizing the business requirements to design on salesforce.com platform by designing the required entities like custom objects, creating the relationships/ junction objects like Master-Child, lookups, Entity Relationship data model, Pages, Classes, Interfaces, Workflows & Workflow rules, triggers, Email alerts and Business Logic.  • Worked on Controllers & Triggers, Visual Force Pages, Custom Tabs, Custom Objects, Reports, Analytic Snapshots and Dashboards.  • Experience in migration applications from Sandbox to Production using Migration Tools like Change Sets and ANT  • Experience in working with Salesforce.com sandbox and production environments.  • Strong understanding and experience with enterprise MuleSoft integration patterns.  • Hands on experience on HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Integration of SFDC with external Web Service API's like Cast Iron, Informatica Cloud.  • Involved in Data Integration and Migration by using Force.com data loaders, web-based import wizards.  • Proficient in creating Lightning Apps combining Lightning Design System, Lightning App Builder and Lightning Component features.  • Designed and Developed Lightning Community Website for Marketing using Lightning community builder, Lightning Components, SLDS, Lightning Events, HTML5, CSS, Lighting Controllers, Apex.  • Downloaded Secure agents from Informatic cloud and configured PC's to work as secure agents.  • Strong knowledge of the SFDC data model, customizing schema using custom objects, fields, master - detail and lookup relationship.  • Knowledge of WSDL, web services SOAP API, BULK API, REST API, force.com callouts, Batch and Schedule Apex Programs  • Update on SFDC pricing and editions and their features, chatter option, security and sharing models, delegated admin features.  • Gained a strong knowledge of synchronization, data-modeling, data extraction, transformation, data Loading, scheduling, monitoring, and reporting in a cloud computing environment  • Experience with extraction, transformation and load (ETL) tools.  • Strong knowledge on Agile, water fall methodologies.  • Proficient in databases including MS SQL Server Oracle Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Salesforce developer/Admin Indianapolis May 2018 to Present RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Performed the roles of Salesforce.com Developer and Administrator in the organization.  • Developed Salesforce Lightning applications using Lightning components, controllers, and events and used custom CSS in the components.  • Experience in bulk data migration from Excel, MS outlook and Legacy Systems to Salesforce. Com using Apex Data Loader, Import Wizard.  • Extensive experience in creating/using the Apex Classes, Triggers, Standard Controllers, Custom Controllers, Controller Extensions, SOQL & SOSL queries, S-Controls and Web services API.  • Support of sales force CRM and sales force SFA applications based on Apex Language and leveraging Force.com Platform world's first commercial Software as a Service (SAAS) application running in Cloud Computing Environment.  • Experience in Integrating App Exchange Applications with Sales Force, Mass E-Mail Management, Application management using Force.com Plug-in &Eclipse IDE in Sandbox and Production Environments.  • Worked as Admin to identifying, planning and implementing new salesforce.com features and functions (New screens, workflow, force.com objects, and reports, apex code) to meet business requirements.  • Created various Custom Objects, Custom Settings, Custom Labels, Validation rules, Record types, Custom Tabs, Workflow rule and approval process including Field updates and email alerts.  • Worked with various salesforce.com objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Opportunities, Reports, and created custom objects based on Business need.  • Worked as a Sales Force Chatter APP with the organization and regularly participated in the scrum and sprint meetings and chatter community.  • Created New Reports, New Dash Boards, and worked on Data Loader by uploading millions of records and experienced in cleansing and De-duplicating bulk loads.  • Developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes, Standard Controllers, Custom Controllers, Controller Extensions, and Web Services API and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Migrated data from external sources and performed insert, delete, upset, and export operations on millions of records.  • Performed Asynchronous Callouts using the Future Annotation and executed the future methods from a Trigger.  • Worked efficiently with standard Salesforce.com objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Cases and Opportunities. Sr. Salesforce developer/Admin Quintiles Rockville MD - Rockville, MD February 2017 to April 2018 RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Performed the roles of Salesforce.com Developer and Administrator in the organization.  • Developed Visualforce Pages, created Reports, Dashboards and Apex Classes.  • Provided technical walk-throughs to various stake holders (QA Team, UAT Team, etc.)  • Built custom user interfaces using Lightning components.  • Developed, Tested and Deployed Custom fields/objects, Forms, Workflows, Interfaces, Records, and user roles to meet business requirements.  • Worked on translating several Visual Force pages to lightning framework.  • Created and deployed Service Cloud console to manage the support process.  • Developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes, Standard Controllers, Custom Controllers, Controller Extensions, and Web Services API and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Migrated data from external sources and performed insert, delete, upset, and export operations on millions of records.  • Performed Asynchronous Callouts using the Future Annotation and executed the future methods from a Trigger.  • Worked efficiently with standard Salesforce.com objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Cases and Opportunities.  • Strong knowledge of Force.com platform technologies including Apex, Triggers, Visualforce, Workflows and Approvals, Integrations with end-to-end product development experience.  • Worked on various SFDC implementations covering Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Chatter and AppExchange applications.  • Developed various customized solutions like retail portal, Customer Portal, Inventory Management System, Customized Order Management, Order Processing and Billing applications using FORCE.COM, Visualforce and Apex.  • Implemented change control from development sandboxes to production and across the development lifecycle.  • Used Salesforce Automation (SFA) for Sales Lead Management, Campaign Management, Opportunity Management, Account and Contact Management.  • Experience in creating Lightning Components and used Salesforce Lightning Design System (SLDS) to convert existing Visualforce pages to lightning components.  • Involved in Salesforce.com Application Setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization.  • Worked with SOQL & SOSL queries with Governor Limitations to store and download the data from Salesforce.com platform database.  • Involved working in the integrations components by consuming Restful APIs.  • Managed Apttus application, releases, and future upgrades.  • Involved in creating a user interface in Lightning using Aura components, for a user to enter details and submit in to Salesforce.  • Hands on experience in Sales Cloud and Service Cloud functionalities.  • Generated Apex Classes using WSDL and wrote business logic layer for integration with external web services to the system for functional needs.  • Hands-on experience on Salesforce Lightning Inspector to debug the lightning components during the development process.  • Turned ETL jobs/procedures/scripts, SQL queries, PL/SQL procedures to improve the system performance.  • Worked on Apttus CPQ configuration and integration.  • Used Jitterbit Data Loader as an import tool we can Insert new records, update existing records and perform upsert  • Developed Lightning components and used Lightning App builder to use those components in Lightning pages.  • Used Salesforce Chatter to provide real time notifications of changes in accounts, leads and opportunities to help sales and service teams to be more efficient.  • Customized the entire salesforce.com applications to incorporate the business requirements, which involved creating Web Forms and processing the data in SFDC with the extensive usage of Web services API.  • Created various workflow rules, profiles and permission sets based on the organizational hierarchy requirements.  • Implemented CPQ solution using Apttus CPQ and Contract Management (CLM) for  • data.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database  • Created Apex methods for the lightning controller and helper methods to perform DML operations on the case records. various customers in industries.  • Developed the integration workflows using MuleSoft ESB 3.8.3 framework.  • Rewrite existing java application in Python module to deliver certain format of  • Worked extensively on SOAP and REST API web service calls.  • Imported data from excel sheets in to Sales Cloud like Leads, Accounts, Contacts and Opportunities using Data Loader and Import Wizard.  • Designed and developed UNIX shell scripts as part of the ETL process to automate the process of loading, pulling the data for testing ETL loads.  • Key role in gradual transition of company's application from Salesforce Classic to Lightning Experience.  • Data migration from SQL Server to Salesforce using Jitter bit tool.  • Written several shell scripts using UNIX Kom shell for file transfers, error log creations and log file cleanup process.    Environment:  Saleforce.com platform, Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Deployments, Apttus, Lightning components, Apex, Visual Force, Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Sandbox data loading, Data Loader, SF Explorer and Eclipse IDE Plug-in, AppExchange apps, SOAP and REST API. Salesforce Developer Lowell Five Bank Boston MA - Boston, MA March 2015 to January 2017 RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Performed detailed analysis of business and technical requirements and created solutions by customizing various standard objects of Salesforce.com (SFDC) and other Platform based technologies like Visualforce, Force.com API, and Web Services.  • Worked as Admin to identifying, planning and implementing new salesforce.com features and functions (New screens, workflow, force.com objects, and reports, apex code) to meet business requirements.  • Created various Custom Objects, Custom Settings, Custom Labels, Validation rules, Record types, Custom Tabs, Workflow rule and approval process including Field updates and email alerts.  • Worked with various salesforce.com objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Opportunities, Reports, and created custom objects based on Business need.  • Worked as a Sales Force Chatter APP with the organization and regularly participated in the scrum and sprint meetings and chatter community.  • Created New Reports, New Dash Boards, and worked on Data Loader by uploading millions of records and experienced in cleansing and De-duplicating bulk loads.  • Implemented Wave Analytics, created datasets, dashboards and apps for Opportunity, Accounts and Cases.  • Service Cloud enhancements - Portal entitlement wizard changes.  • Experience with Service Cloud including: Service Console, Customer Portal, Case Feed, Knowledge.  • Used tool on application IntelliJ, Postman, Jenkins, Stickily, Swagger.  • Developed ETL mappings in informatica for integration between Salesforce and Oracle.  • Provided detail estimates of the level of effort associated to implement capabilities based on business requirements and solution architecture.  • Used SOSL query to search all objects including custom objects.  • Used Sales Cloud in Preparing and getting approval of design, functional and technical specifications from business.  • Worked on Sales Cloud and Service Cloud with functionalities like Opportunity Management and Case Management.  • Created Code Scan Tablet and Code Scan Editor, Revenue Manager, Encoder, IC Chart word and Outlook.  • Participated in deployment of Mule ESB applications using Cloud Hub and Strong experience in Integration using Mule ESB in integrating various third-party solutions.  • Mule experience in implementing Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA) and Enterprise Application Integration(EAI) using Mule Server 3.x  • Created and maintained the email templates to be used in the Workflows, Auto Assignment Rules and Auto Response Rules related to Lead Management module in Sales Cloud.  • Integration of Sales cloud with external information systems using SOAP API web services.  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on record pages.  • Used in developing end to end automation using selenium ,Jenkins, Web Services(Rest,SOAP)  • Used tools such as Eclipse IDE, Jenkins, ANT migration tool and change sets to deploy code from sandbox to production  • Implemented pick lists, dependent pick lists, lookups, master detail relationships, validation and formula fields to the custom objects.  • Good with Configure Price Quote (APTTUS-CPQ) Product and Pricing, also understand configuration settings as they relate to business requirements, also good with standard Quote/Proposal creation process.  • Creating Apex Classes by using WSDL and writing business logic layer for integration with external web services to the system for functional needs.  • Implemented Apex Classes and Triggers and linked them to manage the workflows Implemented in the system.  • Integrating on premise Mainframe Case, CPQ and reporting systems with Salesforce REST APIs.  • Created profiles and implemented Object and field level security to hide important information  • Using force.com developer toolkit including visual force pages, apex classes, apex controllers and apex triggers to develop custom business logic.  • Developed Apex Classes, Apex Triggers, and Apex Controllers to develop custom business logic.  • Working on Lightning components along with controllers and used AJAX to retrieve the data  from an object.  • Created modern Enterprise Lightning Apps combining with Lightning Design System (CSS and Design Parameters), Lightning App Builder and Lightning Component features.  • I configured product and pricing setup using CPQ/Product consoles Formatted and migrated the user data into Lightning Experience. Tested the Lightning components.  • Enabled Lightning Components for use in Salesforce1 mobile Platform.  • Integrated the Web Services for extracting the data from external systems to display in the page salesforce.com.    Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Einstein wave analytics, Apex Language, CRM, Apttus CPQ, Apttus CLM, Visual Force, Pages, Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Email Services, Security Controls, Sandbox Data loader, Eclipse IDE, Lightning, Informatica. Salesforce Developer FIS Global Solutions-Kansas, MO January 2013 to February 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Salesforce.com Application Setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization.  • Collaborated and directed with BA, architects and other business stakeholders to ensure optimal delivery and utilization of Salesforce platforms.  • Created field mapping between Legacy CRM system and salesforce to migrate Account, Contact, Leads and Contact Address related data from Legacy CRM system to salesforce.  • Performed data migration from Microsoft CRM to Salesforce.com  • Service Cloud enhancements - Portal entitlement wizard changes.  • Created user Roles and Profiles, security controls and shared settings.  • Implemented the Marketing process to remove dupe contacts, Leads. Auto Merge Leads, Contacts if already exists.  • Integration of Sales cloud with external information systems using SOAP API web services.  • Created custom objects, Visual force Pages, Triggers, Validation rules to help track internal help desk cases, customize campaign budgeting and lead qualification.  • Created the Workflows for automated Lead routing, Lead escalation.  • Implemented complex Approval processes to ensure proper authorization in the high-stakes environment of capital management.  • Managed Users, hierarchical Roles, Profiles, Security controls.  • Migrated Accounts, Leads, Contacts, Opportunities and Sales data from external systems into SFDC.  • Designing, Implementing and deploying the Custom objects, Page layouts, Visual force pages.  • Testing and migrated the code to the Deployment instance after testing.  • Created Workflow rules to automate the business process and to send automated Email alerts.  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Developed different Visual Force Pages to suit to the needs of the application using different Visual force components.  • Developed dynamic Salesforce.com Visual force pages using Apex page functions and actions, designing them using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Used Force.com Eclipse IDE plug-in to manage, author, debug and deploy Force.com applications in the Eclipse development environment.  • Created custom buttons and links on Account and Relationship Group object for generating auto Reports.  Environment: Eclipse IDE, Controllers, Visual Force Pages, Data Loader, Workflows, Triggers, Smart sheets, CSS, Web Services API, Dupe Blocker, CRM Fusion, Force.com Explorer, Google docs. Developer/Admin Salesforce.com November 2010 to December 2012 Neustar - sterling, VA    RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Performed the roles of administrator, developer & Analyst and deployed Salesforce.com for Sales & Marketing departments. Developed reports, dashboards, and processes to continuously monitor data quality and integrity  • Created Activity Dashboards for management teams consisting of VP's, Directors and Direct Sales Team.  • Managed fields/relationships, workflow rules, approval processes, page layouts, security, validation rules, e-mail, custom buttons/links, etc.  • Created various profiles and configured the permissions based on the organizational hierarchy requirements.  • Implemented security and sharing rules at object, field, and record level for different users at various levels of organization. Worked on various salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, Reports and Dashboards and responsible for the customizing the same as per the business requirements.  • Regularly performed database cleanup procedures. Managed ongoing support requests and administrative needs of users.  • Developed training plans, materials, and documentation for database users, keep materials up-to-date, coordinate new user and ongoing training sessions for the organization worldwide (EMEA).  • Worked on Translation workbench during the global implementation and roll out of Salesforce for EMEA.  • Customized the Dashboards to the track usage for productivity and performance of their sales teams.  • Assisted users with report design and management. Configured and scheduled Analytic snapshots to generate weekly trend reports and to analyze the weekly progress of the applications developed by Stage.  • Supported Sales Directors, Area managers, Reps with ad-hoc questions and reporting requests.  • Collaborated with functional business teams (Sales & Marketing) to understand the business needs.  • Formulated options and executed CRM/business solutions to meet NA, EMEA sales needs.  • Extracted data from various Sales systems like Siebel, SFDC and SAP data warehouse using Toad, SQl and BO.  • Generated various Sales reports like activations data by region, by reps, by product using excel pivot tables, charts and advanced formulae. Created timely reports as per the business needs on daily, weekly and quarterly basis. Generated quarterly and half yearly carrier activations reports from the data extracted from Siebel which included data cleansing and manipulation of millions of records.  • Worked on the Sales dashboard for the weekly exec meetings which included the regional sales counts, market share, % Goals assigned for the Sales reps etc. Created various marketing reports in SFDC like the Lead trend reports and weekly apps progress by stage reports and several custom reports as per the user requests.  • Analyzed Asset contact data in Siebel and SFDC to ensure and maintain data quality and integrity.  • Exported data from Siebel tables and imported into salesforce.com to create dashboards.  ENVIRONMENT: Saleforce.com, Visual Force Pages, IOD, Business Objects, Data Loader, Email Services, HTML, Siebel 8.1, Siebel service, Oracle 10g, SQL, Windows XP, MS Office, Advanced Excel, Security Controls, Sandbox data loading and Force.com IDE Plug-in Eclipse. Java developer Novartis India January 2009 to October 2010 RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Worked in different phases of SDLC process to implement the functionality of the application.  • Designed and developed front end screens using java, JSP, Servlets and Struts framework.  • Implemented MVC Design Patterns using Struts Framework  • Used Struts Tiles Framework for designing the layout of the application.  • Used validator framework to validate various fields in the application using XML files with rules.  • Developed Action Form, Action Class, Action Forward Servlets and Struts Configuration File  • Applied CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) for entire site for standardization of the site  • Used JavaScript for client-side validations.  • AJAX for the asynchronous server calls  • Supported integration efforts between the Struts Action classes and the EJB's services layer  • Used Design Patterns like DTO and DAO, Session Facade, service locator  • Created Perl and UNIX scripts to launch the java modules on JBoss application server.  • Worked on JBoss application server to deploy the.  • Implemented the Mail API application service in Perl code to alert the users in case of any batch.  • Used JPA framework for DAO layer to access the MySQL database.  • Developed and debugged the application using RAD IDE.  • Involved in developing Unit, System and Integration test  • Involved in the preparation of use case, class and sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Worked with QA team to resolve the defects and UAT defects with the business user  • Created RESTful Web Services for populating and saving data from/to database.  • Used Maven for build framework and Jenkins for continuous build system  • Developed DAO classes for the persistent in correlation with hibernate.  • Used Maven to build the project and deploy the applications on the server.  • Involved in support of deployment process of the application on WebLogic Application Server.  Environment: java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JPA, Struts, JavaScript, SQL, XML, XSLT, HTML, CSS, UML, Perl, JBoss, RAD, MySQL UNIX. Education Bachelor's Skills Visual studio, Api, C#, C++, Exchange, Gui, Html, Javascript, Xml, Asp, Css, Asp.net, Force.com, Eclipse, Java, Sql, Apex, Soap, Linux, Red hat Links http://salesforce.com