Senior Software Engineer Senior Software Engineer Senior Software Engineer - T-Mobile USA Bellevue, WA • 3+ years with Big Data and telecom domain.  • 8+ years with Software Development (webservices, microservices, monolithic, server, Healthcare product,  Telecom domain).  • 10+ years with Java development (Webservices, web apps, ERP system).  • Friendly team mate, adaptive, flexible. Work Experience Senior Software Engineer T-Mobile USA April 2017 to Present Productionized and scale Machine Learning model:  o Productionized and written code to scale Anomaly Detector model for millions kpis by PySpark.  o Productionized and written code to scale Quantum Predictor by PySpark.  o Built the Sentiment Analyzer by Spark MLlib, Kafka, Spring Boot.  o Benchmark and tuning performance for Spark job.  • Working on project to measure and monitor the call quality of T-Mobile by Hive.  • Working on Quantum Quality Platform which is built by Jenkins, Hive Unit Test. Principal Software Engineer Solution Resource LLC October 2015 to May 2017 • Leading successfully the first machine Learning project in company which analyze Twitter message, Facebook comment to classify and do statistic for Philippines 2016 Election. The results were broadcast in  television in Philippines 2016. With this successfully, we get more projects in Big Data field with T-Mobile  USA later.  • Implementation the Sentiment Analyzer model with Spark Java code and then converting it to Scala.  • Moving all projects to cloud. Simplifying the deployment process to minutes instead of hours with applying DevOps, CI/CD.  • Implementation, training for all people in company to do project with web service and Angular to be easier  to scale. Senior Java Developer CMG Group (Malaysia) July 2012 to December 2015 • Designing whole project architect, implementing all the common component in the project and maintenance it. PhIS is the health care system for doctor, nurse, pharmacist and is used in more than  1000 Malaysia government hospital and clinic now.  • Successfully applying JRebel to speed up the performance of 20 developers and reduce 8 months effort  for developer team. It helps the company saved millions of ringgits and have a lot of time to improve  system before going live.  • Designing and implementing the integration part between this product with other system in hospital. JavaEE Team Lead Synergix Technologies - Singapore July 2010 to February 2012 TaskHub is ERP system for middle size company. Our main customer is in Singapore. I am one of the first 2 team leads in Vietnam that time. After I and other team lead perform well, the Vietnam branch is  expanded until more than 80 people now.  • Designing the system architect using EJB3, JSF, Spring MVC, Spring Security, Spring JPA.  • Discussing with Singapore System Analyst daily, designing and implementing Payroll module. Preparing  the demo data and story with system analyst and help them to have successfully demo with customer.  This module has been using for 40 customers now.  • Interview and conducting the training for new engineer. Java Developer Pentalog Vietnam April 2009 to July 2010 Gamme6 is the shop management application which is used in 10000 small shops in France. I worked as junior developer in Vietnam and after 6 months. Based on good performance, I was sent to Romania to  work with Romania team to become team lead for 2 modules in maintenance phase later.  • Implement project feature with Spring MVC, Spring backend, Postgresql for backend.  • Doing demo my work with customer in Sprint review meeting. Java Developer eXo Platform Vietnam April 2008 to April 2009 • This project is Web Content Management which is used to create the website page.  • Coding the feature which is assigned from team leader. Fixing the bugs of system.  • Joining the Scrum meetings to demo for customer and estimate the task.  • Preparing testing data for Scrum review meeting.  • Passed the Sun Certified Java Programmer certificate and help other colleague to study and pass exam  too. Education Certificate Stanford University on Coursera 2009 Bachelor in Software Engineer Hanoi University of Science and Technology Vietnam - Hanoi, VN Skills SPRING, GUI, HBase, HDFS, Hive, PYTHON, MATPLOTLIB, PYSPARK, REAL TIME, WEBSOCKET, HBASE, KAFKA, SCALA, STREAMING, DATABASE, MYSQL, POSTGRESQL, EC2, Java, Javascript