Salesforce Lightning Developer Salesforce Lightning <span class="hl">Developer</span> Greenville, SC ? Over 12+ years of IT experience in various stages of Software Development which includes 5+ years of experience as Salesforce CRM Developer which involves Administrator, Development, Integration, communities and lightning like classic to cpq  ? migration and lightning component development. 4 Years of experience on Java  ? Experience of Salesforce.com Development, implementation including configuration and customization/ data migration.  ? Experience in operating, Iterating and releasing of salesforce project.  ? Aggressive Salesforce CRM Business Analyst who is constantly looking for the best ways to maximize each customer relationship. Adept in data mining generating detailed and useful reports.  ? Proficient in customizing standard objects: Accounts, Contacts, opportunities, Products, Price books, Cases, Leads, Campaigns, Reports and Dashboards.  ? Worked on Page layout customization, page layout assignment-based profiles and created custom links based on user requirement.  ? Implemented Security and Sharing rules at object, field and record level for different users at different levels of organization.  ? Experience in mapping and migration of data to salesforce.com objects and fields from legacy systems.  ? Enabled Aura framework, by adding Aura attributes and Aura Handlers for Events to focus on logic Developed Lightning Apps using Lightning Design System for Salesforce1  ? Technical Knowledge about Salesforce Lightning schema builder, process builder, app builder, components and lightning connect.  ? Experience in providing training to business users who use Apttus & LMS  ? Configured product and pricing setup using CPQ/Product consoles which include price ramps, Price Matrix, Price Rulesets, price list items, tiered pricing and asset pricing.  ? Have Hands on experience with APTTUS and ZUORA CPQ.  ? Knowledge of Zuora (designed to automate billing, commerce, and finance operations) and Streaming API.  ? Extensive knowledge in Sales Cloud, Service Cloud and ExactTarget Marketing cloud.  ? Proficient in writing and validating project specific Technical as well as functional documents.  ? Deployed Configurations and Code between Sales force Environments through various deployment tools like Force.com IDE, Snapshot, Ant Scripts, and Cruise Control.  ? Experience in Mule Soft components, workflow and pattern.  ? Having Experience in Apex, Batch Apex, Visualforce.  ? Wrote SOQL and SOSL statements within custom controllers, extensions and triggers.  ? Experience with Salesforce orgs, environments (sandboxes) and 3rd party app exchange partners (common ones).  ? Experience in activities related to SFDC Configuration like Creating Roles, Profiles, Email Services, Workflow Alerts and Actions, and Approval Process.  ? Experienced Integration with Siebel Callidus, BRM, MDM, Oracle, Oracle Billing.  ? Experienced in integration of Salesforce.com with external applications by using web services SOAP and REST API.  ? Proficient in Data Integration and ETL TOOLS from Traditional Applications to Sales Force Using REST/SOAP API, Informatics on Demand.  ? Experience in designing of Custom objects, Custom fields, Page layouts, Custom Reports.  ? Experience in designing Visualforce pages and providing functionality to those through Apex programming based on client and application requirements.  ? Integration of salesforce.com with other applications by using Salesforce web services API  ? REST, SOAP API& knowledge in Streaming API to send real-time notifications to Deal desk users.  ? Implemented Agile Scrum methodology to increase communications, transparency and productivity in departments.  ? Having Good Knowledge on Email Alerts, System Configuration, SOQL and SOSL  ? Experience on tools like Ant, Data Loader, Work bench, Demand tools &Eclipse. Work Experience Salesforce Lightning Developer Concentrix - Greenville, SC January 2018 to Present Concentrix, a wholly-owned subsidiary of SYNNEX Corporation (NYSE: SNX), is a technology-enabled global business services company specializing in customer engagement and improving business performance for some of the world's best brands. Concentrix provides services to clients in ten industry verticals: automotive; banking and financial services; insurance; healthcare technology; consumer electronics; media and communications; retail and e-commerce; travel and transportation; energy and public-sector.    Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Upgraded from Salesforce classic to lightning.  ? Developed Lightning apps using lightning Components and made them compatible with salesforce1 mobile app.  ? Performed migration on Notes and attachments from classic to lightning using packages.  ? Lightning Components and added Design Parameters from Lightning Design System(LDS) and customized Lightning Components were built using Java script on client side and APEX on server side.  ? Constructed junction objects and enabled various progressive fields like Validation Rules, Field Dependencies, Custom Formula Fields, Work Flows, Pick list, Field Updates, Email Generation and Approval Processes for automated alerts.  ? Extensive experience in developing Apex Classes, Triggers, Visual Force pages, writing Workflows, Integration, Force.com API, Custom Tabs, Custom Objects, Controllers, App Exchange Package & Custom Application, Analytic Snapshots, and Dashboards  ? Worked on service cloud with Case Management.  ? Developed APEX classes to insert the data in custom settings using static resources.  ? Assisted on Record Types, Validation Rules, Triggers and Page Layouts.  ? Created APEX classes, triggers, custom objects, custom tabs, workflow & assignment rules, profile and sharing settings.  ? Developed Amortization table and included in the VF Leasing calculator to calculate the interest paid and remaining balance.  ? Developed Apex Classes and Extensions to add required functionality to Visual Force Pages  ? Wrote Apex Triggers to implement business logic which sends emails to the vendor banks for credit check and Quote processing.  ? Worked on tools like Work bench, Data loader, Demand tools, Informatica for mass updates, import and export of data  ? Implemented SFDC integration using REST/SOAP Web Service API's.  ? Integrated the SOAP/REST API based web services on demand for extracting the data from external systems.  ? Provided Agile effort estimates according to business requirement.  ? Agile Development Methodology was followed for the implementation.  ? Written SOQL queries against force.com API.  ? Deployed Apex using Force.com IDE, Force.com Migration Tool, and Web Services API.  ? Worked on Change sets, Packages, Eclipse using Force.com IDE plugin for deploying apps and several other components.  Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Lightning, Apttus, SSIS, , Apex Language, Visualforce (Pages, Component & Controllers), Salesforce.com Data Loader, SOAP and REST API, Share point, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Service Cloud, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, HTML, Sandbox, ANT migration tool, Eclipse, Jenkins, eTFS, Eloqua, Windows. Salesforce Developer BestBuy - Richfield, MN June 2016 to January 2018 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Involved in complete life cycle of Leasing Opportunity portal.  ? Created many Email Templates and Mail Merge Templates and was involved in doing the mail merge for different standard and custom objects in lightning experience.  ? Maintenance of installed Managed Packages in lightning using Apex. Experienced in using Data Migration tool called Data Loader.  ? Visualforce Pages for lightning experience, Alternates for Java Script Codes, Sharing Visualforce pages between Classic and lightning.  ? Experience working across various SFDC implementations that are covering Sales cloud, Service Cloud and Apttus CPQ.  ? Customizing the Apttus product configurator and quote application according to business needs.  ? Designed and developed Visual Force pages based on the custom requirement.  ? I also worked on Apttus Advanced Workflow approvals, Apttus order management, created agreement wizards, validation rules, contract templates  ? Worked on various objects Related to APTTUS Configuration & Pricing management, like: Agreement, Incentive, Price Rule, Price Rule entry, Price Rule Set.  ? Strong understanding of Salesforce CPQ capabilities and limitations and can clearly communicate those to customers.  ? Built Visual Force Leasing Calculator to calculate the monthly payments based on the total amount financed and residual value.  ? Developed Amortization table and included in the VF Leasing calculator to calculate the interest paid and remaining balance.  ? Wrote Apex Triggers to implement business logic which sends emails to the vendor banks for credit check and Quote processing.  ? Designed and deployed custom Objects, Custom tabs, validation rules, and Auto-Response rules for automating various steps in leasing.  ? Created several work flows and approval processes needed in different stages of actual quote processing.  ? Worked on SFDC standard Objects like Accounts, Contacts, Cases, Leads, and Campaigns etc.  ? Developed email templates which pulls all the data from the customer record.  ? Worked on tools like Work bench, Data loader, Demand tools, Informatica for mass updates, import and export of data  ? Involved in Lead management, which is important part in HDD business and worked on workflows for updating leads based on the lead scoring from Eloqua.  ? Organized meetings with stake holders to provide information on progress and critical milestones of the project.  ? Closely worked with SFDC Admins and Business Analysts in the Org involved in integration and merging two salesforce instances. Sales & Service Cloud Migrations.  ? Worked on Partner Communities and implemented Sales portal home page into Salesforce using VF, html, Java Script, CSS & Ajax  ? Developed various batch classes for evaluating certain criteria and updating data using Data Manipulation Language.  ? Developed and scheduled various Batch Apex classes using Apex Schedulable classes on hourly basis.  ? Designed and deployed Custom tabs, validation rules, Approval Processes and Auto-Response Rules for automating business logic.  ? Worked on scheduling data loading and transformations using SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) between different maintenance systems  ? Created ETL packages using SSIS to move data from various heterogeneous data sources.  ? Created logs for ETL load at package level and task level to log number of records processed by each package and each task in a package using SSIS.  ? Involved in Data cleaning, record deduping and Data reconciliation during migration.  ? Involved in Webinars, training sales persons how to use the application.  ? Involved in the Data Transformation and Data Cleansing activities while transferring the data to the external system using Informatics on Demand.  ? Implemented SFDC Integration using REST/ SOAP Web Service API'S.  ? Integrated with external system using Web Services callouts for cleansing the Address and save the data in the pages of Salesforce.com and SOAP and REST based Web Services for extracting the data from external systems to display in the pages of Salesforce.com.  ? Worked on Change sets, Packages, Eclipse, ANT migration tool for deploying apps and several other components.  ? Experienced in using Force.com Migration Tools and includes change sets and continuous integration using Jenkins, SVN, CVS, Force.com Migration tool.  ? Involved in automation process using various tools like Jenkins, eTFS, etc.  ? Managed Off-shore team of three developers and tracked the progress.  ? Agile Development Methodology was followed for the implementation.  ? Involved in gathering business and technical requirements for leasing quote automation and build the application right from the scratch and deploy it to production.  ? Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  ? Involved with Salesforce.com Premier Support and handled the support cases with the help Salesforce.com support.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Lightning, Apttus CPQ, SSIS, , Apex Language, Visualforce (Pages, Component & Controllers), Salesforce.com Data Loader, SOAP and REST API, Share point, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Service Cloud, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, HTML, Sandbox, ANT migration tool, Eclipse, Jenkins, eTFS, Eloqua, Windows. Salesforce Developer Cuna Mutual - Madison, WI August 2014 to May 2016 CUNA Mutual Group is a mutual insurance company that provides financial service to cooperatives, credit unions, their members, and other customers worldwide. CUNA Mutual Group sells commercial and consumer.    Responsibilities:  ? Admix with business users to revise and renew Software System Requirements, Business Process Requirements.  ? Generate Email Templates and also have knowledge in bulk emailing users.  ? Delivered support for continuing salesforce.com maintenance and additional administration services including workflow, approvals and periodic data cleansing.  ? Examined the necessities with business team and transformed the requirements into full technical necessities.  ? Experienced working on CPQ application like ZUORA and customized logic around them.  ? Good exposure in integrating enterprise applications with other API enabled Business Systems like salesforce.com, Data.com, Zuora CPQ, DocuSign, Market.  ? Knowledge of Zuora (designed to automate billing, commerce and finance operations) and streaming API.  ? Assisted Email to case, Web to case, customized case page layouts and case assignment rules.  ? Worked on developing standard/custom controllers, controller extensions and Visual Force pages.  ? Advanced the Apex Triggers to safeguard the correct data entries in to the system.  ? Enhanced, configured workflow rules, time triggered workflows, email templates resulting into actual web to lead communication with customers and partner portals.  ? Worked with various kind of frameworks/technologies like Mule Soft, Oracle Middleware, Spring, Hibernates, JSF, ADF, MVC architecture.  ? Expert in analyzing, development, testing and coding of middleware\web applications primarily using Mule ESB\Mule API\IBM WMB, MQ\ Java\J2EE.  ? Planned and implemented Custom validation rules, Approval Processes and Auto-Response Rules for automating business logic.  ? Implemented SFDC integration using REST/SOAP Web Service API's.  ? Integrated the SOAP/REST API based web services on demand for extracting the data from external systems.  ? Initiated the Integration and configuration of R12 Oracle Billing System.  ? Specified user support and bug fixing actions.  ? Projected various Email templates.  ? Implemented the developments of Custom Objects, Workflows, Triggers, Reports and  ? Fields into the test and prod boxes to Sync with them.    Environment: Saleforce.com CRM, Force.com platform, ZUORA CPQ, Apex Triggers, Mule Soft, REST/ SOAP API, Oracle Billing, Chatter, Controllers, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Security Controls, Force.com IDE, UNIX. Salesforce Developer Center Point Energy - Houston, TX October 2011 to July 2014 Center Point energy was formerly known as Reliant Energy (from which it is now separated), NorAm Energy, Houston Industries, and HL&P. Some of its notable subscribers include Retail Electric Providers (REPs), such as Reliant Energy, Champion Energy, Ambit Energy, Texas Power, Bounce Energy, Direct Energy, Stream Energy, First Texas Energy Corporation.    Responsibilities:  ? Created Sales force objects and related metadata necessary to support customizations across instances.  ? Created Workflow Rules, Page Layouts, Approval Process, Tasks, Email Alerts, Field Updates and Outbound Messages to manage the Workflow & Approvals.  ? Created Users, Roles, Public Groups and implemented role hierarchies, sharing rules and record level permissions to manage sharing access among different users.  ? Created page layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, stored procedures and other components on detail pages and designed Workflows, Validation rules, Approval Processes and Auto-Response Rules for automating business logic.  ? Implemented, designed and developed Standard and Custom Apex Classes, Controllers Classes, extensions and Apex Triggers to handle business logic and used debug logs to trace the execution and used Apex Data Loader to migrate data such as accounts, campaigns.  ? Customized page layouts for Opportunity, Contacts, and Accounts depending upon user roles, and groups.  ? Created Force.com Sites for external users and configured public access to accommodate data access in visual force pages, and implemented Sales force Chatter functionality for one to many business users.  ? Developed Triggers in MySQL for lowering traffic between client-server, as well as to handle bulk records within the governor limits to automate business logic.  ? Interacted with various business team members to gather the requirements and documented the requirements in a test-driven and formal QA Development environment that included development, staging, and production deployment cycles.  Environment: Salesforce force.com platform, Apex, Visual force, Data Loader, Chatter, objects, Workflows, Java/ J2EE, JavaScript, CSS, DHTML, HTML5, SOAP and REST, MySQL. Salesforce Developer I Business Software Pvt. Ltd - Bengaluru, Karnataka January 2009 to September 2011 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Involved requirement gathering, functional and business meeting with client side business people.  ? Developed Custom lookups and tree views using Java script and Visual force.  ? Involved in developing application with Visual force and apex classes design the page layouts with all user friendly and handling all custom events.  ? Coordinate with business and functional teams to gather requirements, design quality solutions, and create development specifications  ? Dynamic approval process implementation (through apex) in the activity and project level.  ? Creating a time dependent workflows and workflows as per the requirement.  ? Created APEX classes, triggers, custom objects, custom tabs, workflow & assignment rules, profile and sharing settings.  ? Clearly communicate project expectations and solutions to team members and business users  ? Custom lookups, Tree views and Dynamic approval process are great achievements in this project.  ? Interacting with salesforce.com technical people for support, new feature activations and other support related issues.  ? Developed and customized workflows and assignments for opportunities ad quotes in Salesforce.com  ? Creating Email templates and handling email services through apex class.    Environment: Salesforce force.com platform, Apex, Visual force, Data Loader, Apex classes, Trigger, objects, Workflows, Java/ J2EE, JavaScript, CSS, DHTML, HTML5, SOAP and REST, MySQL. Java Developer Apollo Munich - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2007 to December 2008 Health Tracking Product uses a Server that reads the data from various interfaces and will be saved into database. First user need to create a user-id through the WEB UI to interact with server that runs on tomcat. After login the user enters the data points, which will be used to show the graphs for different time variants (like for the past 1 week, 2 weeks, 1 month). Through IM, one pre-defined buddy is running at our server. User need to add this buddy name to interact with our server. An alert system in place to alert the user through Email or SMS (for mobile) or IM (send message to IM user-id) if the data point is out of range. We have another important feature called Scheduler. User can use this to schedule for reminders.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed necessary interfaces, modules and functions to satisfy all requirements.  ? Developed some of the modules for the whole system based on Model View Controller (MVC) using the Struts framework extensively.  ? Extensively developed supporting Java Beans Components.  ? Developed the front-end screens using JSP, XSL, and HTML.  ? Extensively used several J2EE features for the development of Application.  ? Extensively used Design patterns such as Singleton, Factory, and MVC.  ? Written JSP Custom Tags for view layer of the application.  ? In-depth knowledge and experience in implementing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using XML based SOAP/RESTful web services.  ? Extensively used Ant tool to get all the class files in the MVC pattern at a time.  ? Written Unit Test Cases.    Environment: J2EE (JSP, JDBC, Servlets, Struts Framework), java-script, SOAP/REST Web Services, Web logic, Tomcat 5.0, Apache Ant, Oracle, MySQL, XML, Ajax, Jabber Protocols (for IM Interface), WAP. Education Bachelors JNTU 2010 Links http://Salesforce.com