Sr. Pega Developer Sr. Pega <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Pega Developer Irving, TX • Certified Lead System Architect (CLSA) and Java/J2EE Developer with 11+ years of progressively responsible experience in BPM using Pega PRPC around 7 years of experience.  • Possess excellent skills for team building, team leading and mentoring and excellent exposure of onsite-offshore project execution models and building COE team  • Has expertise in building framework layer, application layer & reusable components, reporting features, performance tunings etc.  • Have worked for clients like Pega Systems Inc., United Health Group, Healthnet Inc. and Anthem-Amerigroup.  • Liaison with other development teams and QA teams in planning and delivering quality product in time  • Proficient in Pega Implementation life cycle like modeling of business process, PRPC tool installation, build and deployment, development, testing,  • Sound skills on PRPC tools such as Tracer, Clipboard and System Management Application (SMA).  • Developed Activities, Properties, Decision Rules, Declarative Rules, Process Flows and User Interfaces like Harness & Sections.  • Experienced Developer for defining class structure and hierarchy based on Pega best practices and guardrails, security based on role and privileges, configuring agents, connectors, data model, process flows, business logic definition and user interface Design.  • Worked on Management Dash Board Reports using Report Definition, List View and Summary View.  • Expert level experience in software development life cycle (SDLC) best practices and Written documentation  • Experience in phases of Smart Build BPM life cycle like model, build, execute and monitor using PRPC.  • Good Experience on Warranty Framework  • 24x7 production (on-call) support on a weekly rotational basis  • Experience with LEAN Agile Methodology and Waterfall  • Extensively used Connectors and SOAP Services in Pega PRPC to integrate with external systems.  • Good experience in Java Messaging Service (JMS), IBM MQSeries for Message-Oriented Middleware.  • Solid Experience in Oracle 10g / 9i /8i and MS-SQL Server 00/05, stored procedures and triggers.  • Strong working experience in leading J2EE framework like spring, Hibernate, Struts.  • Excellent Analytical & Problem-solving skills with attention to detail and Persistence, Teamwork and Communications.  • Proven success in interacting with customers, business members worldwide and providing project status reports to the stakeholders Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Pega Developer Citi Cards - Irving, TX July 2016 to August 2017 The Objective of the Project is to rewrite the Disputes Processing system previously existing in PEGA Cards to Pega Rules PRPC. This application serves as the single source for handling all the credit card disputes with the feed from scanning, Online Account and from representatives through Phone. This application handles all the credit card dispute life cycle like Case Management, Correspondence, chargeback, Media and handling all the CB rejects Representments and the retrieval request, Generating Reports for Financial Control with the EOD reports, creating posting feed to the Mainframes System.    Responsibilities:  • Worked with the line of Business to make Citi Cards compliance with all the associations Visa/MasterCard/American Express with their release documents every fall and spring. Modified the Disputes Processing system (DPS) with new CB reason codes and with the changes in chargeback rules and regulations.  • Involved in Multiple Projects throughout the life cycle which involves Dispute Processing system impacts.  • Involved in Designs for the work flows and the integration pieces.  • Implemented critical work flows part of day to day business operations the workflows are crucial to success of the system, especially considering the volume.  • Automated several processes within CITI using PEGA PRPC like Fraud Automation which eliminated manual work in creating cases, Fraud Reporting and CB.  • Automated the way CITI used to communicate with Amex for Media Requests.  • Automated the Credit Balance Refund workflow to get the feed directly and Post to Customer Creation of activities for implementing core business logic.  • Created several new Services with MQ and JMS integrating with Other legacy as well as Desktop systems through ESB.  • Provided Technical knowledge and direction to Business for selecting the correct path from PEGA Perspective.  • Used Pega Smart Dispute and Smart Investigate frameworks.  • Monitored all the alert logs and Pega Rules logs in the Production to identify any critical issues which may cause Performance Issues  • Ran the PAL, Profiler for identifying the performance issues in UAT/DE environments  • Helped in managing offshore resources with regards to design, delegation of tasks, and explanation of client requirements on deliverables.  • Worked as Release Coordinator for packing the rules, setting up the access groups and monitoring the performance.  Environment: Pega PRPC V7.1.6, Oracle 11g, IBM WebSphere Server 6.1, MS Visio, Java Script, Java/J2EE, HTML, XML. PEGA Developer Nationwide Insurance - Columbus, OH October 2014 to July 2016 Insurers need claims processing operations that are customer-focused, cost-effective, and adaptable. This claims processing app is primarily focused on end to end - life insurance and car insurance claims. Making use of declarative rules and case management, this app makes use of PEGA OOTB features to achieve business objectives like reduced turnaround time and improved efficiency.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and implemented complex user interfaces using Harness, Section, and Process flows rules.  • Creation of Class structure in Pega PRPC, Properties (Data types), Embedded Pages and Correspondences.  • Worked extensively on activities to implement the business logic.  • Implemented various PRPC components like Decision tables, Decision Maps, Declarative expressions etc.  • Worked extensively on connectors.  • Created Client-Side/Server-Side Validations and SLAs.  • Expertise in Pega Rules Process Commander (PRPC) flows, interpretation of flows shapes, Tickets for tangible business scenarios.  • Involved in testing and troubleshooting the issues of application using PRPC tools like Rules Inspector, Clipboard, Tracer and PAL.  • Created Activities, steps and methods and calling other activities for implementing core business logic.  • Worked on Decision Strategy Manager (DSM).Used Flow shapes between business process management and Decision management.  • Implemented the Agile methodology in design and the rule development phases using the Pega Rules Process Commander  • Creation of search reports using List view, Summary view rules of PRPC.  Environment:  PRPC 6.3, IBM Data Studio, IBM DB2, AES 7.1 Pega Developer and Onsite Production support Rancho Cordova, CA September 2013 to September 2014 The Kit Information Management (KIM) application manages the configuration of Bill of Materials (BOM) and their mapping with members. It provides functionalities to manage KIT jobs, configure components, generate reports, bulk component management, bulk data upload, and audit trail and system administration. The biggest lift for instituting KIM for management of BOMs and Kit Jobs is the alignment of Electronic & Hard-Copy Distribution Processes. Currently it is taking users a long time to get the specs set up (I believe in part due to the learning curve of the new process & tool) but over time, this should lead to a large time savings for customer.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Use Case conception, Design and requirement analysis.  • Configured end-to-end solution for automated account opening process i.e, processing xml file and creating Account opening cases and routing it to suitable work basket.  • Identifying Properties and Activities, designing the Sections and Harness.  • Implementation of PRPC components like Decision tables, Decision Maps, Declarative Expressions, Constraints and Indexes etc.  • Worked on Activities and Flows to meet the requirements.  • Used RDB Method to created Database Connection and Created Web services using Connect-SOAP.  • Created Data-Admin-Product to migrate rules across various environments.  • Managed accessibility to users by creating Portals, Access Roles and Access Groups for Analysts, Data Managers and Chair departments.  • Identified and documented test conditions/scenarios from the business requirements and functional design for Rating Management.  Environment: Pega PRPC 7.1, HTML, XML, SOAP, JavaScript, SQL Application Server, Java, CSS, Sr. Pega Developer United Health Group - Irvine, CA August 2012 to June 2013 Producer Contact Log Project is an application for addressing agent queries and maintenance processes. Agent can make a phone call to CSR or even send an email and take up the issue with the service representative. The representative will do a verification of the agent and will initiate a Service request based on the request that the agent has raised. The application provides a 360 degree view of the producer information which makes the processing of the request quicker and easier. The request will be processed and reviewed by different roles in the system and the system would be sending notification to the agents once the issue is addressed.    Responsibilities:  • Requirement Analysis & Design  • Coding (involves Creation of rules, design flows & developing code)  • Unit Testing  • Enhancements & Fixing defects  • Stake holder management, Interacting with the customer  • Involved in Production Deployment and Post Production support  • Involved in Designing High Level Class structure, Workflows and Rule sets in Pega PRPC.  • Creation of Rules for Validation, Integration rules like Rule-Connect-SOAP.  • Created the Business Process Flows and flow actions in Pega PRPC.  • Implementation of Decision tables, Decision Maps and Declarative expressions.  • Identified reporting requirements to general business functionality, non-functionality needs and required data attributes for BPM specific workflows.  • Created Activities for implementing core Business logic.  Environment: Pega CPM 7.2 SP2, Pega HC, Pega PRPC 6.2 SP2 Pega Developer United Health Group - Irvine, CA January 2012 to July 2012 UHG currently enrolls 14 million members in pharmacy plans, wants to start their own PBM services named as Fresh Start (FS), by the vertical integration of OptumRx acquired by UHG. An enterprise-wide project has been established to migrate all its commercial business to OptumRx under (FS) Program. This project has been identified to ensure the Central Client Repository (CCR) application is ready to accommodate and maintain new required Client and Benefit data to support Fresh Start (FS) Business    Responsibilities:  • Provide an Implementation UI to capture changes made to Client Implementation.  • Provide maintenance UI to process changes. Provide ability to route information between the two accountability & liability between the parties.  • Requirement Analysis and Design  • Used Decision rules like the Decision tables and Map Values.  • Retrieved information from declare pages at node and thread level for fast processing.  • Worked on task creation based on the application and assigning them to the concerned user effectively and maintaining their status effectively.  Environment: PEGA PRPC 6.1, DB2, Microsoft Visio, Java, HTML Pega Developer United Health Group - Irvine, CA August 2011 to December 2011 The purpose of the project is to automate the current manual audit process of reject claims for all OptumRx clients by scrubbing the claim rejects received via M&R through automatically identify and tag appropriate rejects as "Valid" rejects, or Route to queue as a workflow transactions for human intervention. To implement a process that would allow it to audit the rejected claims and ensure that these were correctly rejected by the Claims engine (Rx Claim) used by various pharmacists. While the immediate need is to implement a streamlined process to audit selected group of rejected claim transactions received from UHG Medicare & Retirement division, the process/system should be designed such that it can be used for other lines of business/clients, namely nonM&R part-D and Commercial business    Responsibilities:  • Requirement Analysis and Design  • Design & Development of the Business Process Management (BPM) components that includes PRPC Flows, Business Rules for application flow.  • Design and develop Data Model, Class structure, Access Group, Process flow, Activities and UI properties.  • Customize CSR portals  • Creating quote request and sending the quote to the customer for approval.  • Build functionality to Create and send PDF to Contract generation system using SOAP service.  • Implementation of Decision tables, Decision Maps and Declarative expressions.  • Design and develop User interfaces using Harness, Sections and Flow Action rules.  • Developed search reports using List view.  • Participated in creating validation rules.  • Used DB operations using RDB save, RDB Open, RDB list.  Environment: PEGA PRPC 6.1, DB2. Pega Developer Pega Systems - Cambridge, MA February 2010 to July 2011 As part of the Sustaining Engineering Team, we are managing and maintaining the Pega Systems PRPC versions that start from 5.1 to 6.1. As part of this work we are responsible for producing the Service Packs for different PRPC versions, producing the Fix Packs, Fixing the Customer bugs and fixing the hot fixes for that bugs for different customers. Any service Request raised by a customer is converted to Eng Item then we will go through the issue deeply study the issue and try reproducing it and start debugging, if it is reproducible. Find the root cause of the issue and fixing it.    Responsibilities:  • Issue reproducing and fixing  • Installing Environment 61sp1using Dartmouth Eclipse  • Replicating the customers' issue in local environment  • Providing local changes, if possible  • Unit testing the Hot-fix. UI features like Dynamic Select, auto complete, and auto populate  • Worked on SLA's worked on Email Correspondences and Service Email rules  • Worked on different types of Agents, Integration concepts: SOAP, Listeners  Environments: PRPC 5.5 SP1-PRPC 6.1 SP2, WebLogic. Java Developer GI-De August 2008 to January 2010 The objective of the project is to migrate the existing International E-Apply application from its current Web sphere 3.5 environments to Web Sphere 5.1 environment. Online applications where a user can apply online have become strategic channel for international markets to attract the customers as the response rates to traditional channels continue to erode. International E-application (E-Apply) is an 'Apply for Card / Loan' application, which enables to capture user data online for 19 international markets. E-Apply provides the following online applications for the following types of cards.    Responsibilities:  • Study and Analysis of business and functional requirements.  • Worked on the development of the Application front-end using JSP and Servlets.  • Developed forms and actions for an MVC implementation of the presentation layer using Struts.  • Used Log4j to maintain the user defined logs on the system.  • Developed separate model classes. Java Developer GI-De September 2006 to July 2008 Specifications: Java Card 2.2.1, GSM 11.11    The objective of this project is to enable GSM handsets with SIM-bound secure messaging. It is suite of messaging with the provision to compose, receive, alert on arrival of new and sent messages. The applets registered for the event SMS PP Download get notified every time there is a message downloaded onto SIM card. The applet in turn prepares and triggers 11.14 proactive commands to notify the mobile phone to display short cut to the message.    Responsibilities:  • Developed Forms as per the client requirements.  • Involved in Unit Testing. Education Bachelors in Information Technology Andhra University Skills PEGA (7 years), JAVA (6 years), HTML (2 years), XML (2 years), VISIO (1 year) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Technical Skills:    BPM Tools: PRPC 5.5, 6.1, 6.2, 7.1, 7.2  Frame Works: Pega, CPM HC Frame work, PCS Framework, Care Management Framework  Operating systems: Win-2000/NT/XP, MS-DOS, LINUX  Programing Languages: PL/SQL, Core Java  Databases: MS-SQL Server, MS-Access, Oracle 10g, BIX  Application Server: Tomcat, WebSphere  Markup & Scripting: HTML, XML, Java Script  Debugging Tools: PAL, Fiddler, DB Tracer, Log Analyzer  Bug Tracking Tools: Pega Rule Pro, PSC  Modeling Tools: Rational Rose, TOAD, MS-Visio