Job Seeker • Around 11.5 years of experience in Software Development, Maintenance and Support projects.  • Worked on various industry domains like Banking, Telecom and Learning.  • Extensive experience in coding and development of object-oriented component software using Core Java, Struts, Spring Framework, Hibernate, PL/SQL, JDBC Databases like Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL and in Web Technologies like Jquery, HTML, XML, XSLT  • Worked on Spring Boot, Spring batch, Spring integration and microservices  • Knowledge in developing/designing applications using java j2ee design patterns and coding standards.  • Worked extensively on Application Server like IBM Websphere Application Server, Jboss, and Web Server like Tomcat  • Worked on Web Services - Rest implementation.  • Quick learner and excellent team player, ability to meet tight dead-lines.  • Involved in recruitment, member of java/j2ee interview panel  • Sun Certified Java Programmer and IBM certified AIX professional Work Experience Finastra (Misys) Financial Software Solutions October 2014 to Present Senior Developer Finastra (Misys) Financial Software Solutions October 2014 to Present Project Type: Development  Environment: Java, Struts, Spring Framework, Hibernate, oracle, WebSphere  9.0, IBM MQ, Tomcat 6.x, java1.7, Ant, Eclipse3.6, SVN, Jira, Jenkins, Sonar, Drools Rule Engine    Role: Senior Developer  Responsible for:  • Designing, development, and delivery of task/stories  • defect Tracking, analysis and reporting  • Technology stack migration to latest version  • improving Performance of the application  • Integration to upstream/downstream products  • Customer Demos  • Mentoring and guiding juniors in the team    ASSIGNMENT 2: Senior Developer Finastra (Misys) Financial Software Solutions January 2017 to June 2017 Project Type: Development  Environment: Java 1.8, Spring boot, AngularJS, Hibernate, Oracle, Tomcat 7.0, Maven, Eclipse Neon, Git, Jira, Jenkins, Sonar    Role: Senior Developer  Responsible for:  • Designing and development of micro services    ASSIGNMENT 3: J P Morgan Chase September 2013 to October 2014 Customer: J P Morgan Chase  Period: Sept 2013 to Oct 2014    Industry: Trade booking and execution    Project Name: OTC Workstation  Project Type: Development  Environment: Java, Spring Framework, jdbc, MySql, Tomcat 6.x, java1.6, Mule, Sybase, Maven, Eclipse3.6, SVN, Jira, Jenkins, Murex    Role: Application Developer    Responsible for:  • Developed/enhanced new OTC (over the counter) Derivatives product  • Development/Integration of web services with core app and third party  • Testcases development to cover code functionality and improve accuracy    ASSIGNMENT 4: Altisource October 2012 to September 2013 Altisource October 2012 to September 2013 Industry: Invoicing and billing    Project Name: REAL Remit  Project Type: Development  Environment: JSF, Spring Framework, jdbc, Hibernate, mysql, Tomcat 6.x, java1.6, Rabbit MQ, Mongo DB, Maven, Eclipse3.6, SVN, Jira    Role: Senior Software Engineer  Responsible for:  • Understanding the requirement from product management team  • Responsible for implementing spring-integration  • developed alternate solution for addressing complex issues  • worked on templatization  • Fixed production issues    ASSIGNMENT 5: Senior Java Developer ITC Infotech January 2012 to September 2012 Period: Jan 2012 to Sept 2012    Industry: Project Management  Project Name: Scrumm  Project Type: Development  Environment: JSF 2, primefaces, Spring Framework, Hibernate, mysql, Tomcat 6.x, java1.5, ANT, Eclipse3.6, SVN, Mantis    Role: Senior Java Developer  Responsible for:  • Understanding the Systems Requirement and Functional Design.  • Responsible for implementing spring security, log4j and ant build  • Developed hibernate persistent implementation  • Developed the Controller, service and DAO layer  • Conducting self-review and peer review of code.  • Analysis of reported defects, seeking and providing clarifications from/to team    ASSIGNMENT 6: ITC Infotech January 2011 to September 2012 Senior Java Developer ITC Infotech January 2011 to January 2012 UK  Period: Jan 2011 to Jan 2012    Industry: BFSI  Project Name: Web enhancement    Project Type: Development (Conversion).  Environment: Java 5, JSP, Servlet, Star Team, HP Quality Center, Eclipse, Oracle, Tomcat.    Role: Senior Java Developer  Responsible for:  • Writing command classes and Action classes  • implementation of tiles framework at UI layer  • writing class diagram and use cases  • Involved in bug fixing.  • Involved in writing webtest and webunit tests  • Reviewing programs coded by other team members.  • Involved in peer testing of different modules.  • Helping team members when they struck of with technical or functional clarification.    ASSIGNMENT 7: IBM India pvt limited February 2009 to May 2010 Industry: Telecom  Project Name: DSC(Device self care)    Project Type: Development  Environment: Android, Struts, EJB 3.0, JPA + Hibernate, Oracle 10g,  WebSphere Application Server 6.0, Ant, CVS, Toad, Eclipse 3.3    Role: Java Developer    Responsible for:  • Responsible for, coding, testing, debugging and documentation.  • Understanding the Systems Requirement and Functional Design.  • Developed EJB components, hibernate persistent implementation  • Developing the Controller, Manager and View Components by Struts2 MVC.    ASSIGNMENT 8: IBM India pvt limited January 2007 to May 2010 Major Assignments    ASSIGNMENT 1: Java Developer IBM India pvt limited February 2008 to January 2009 USA  Period: Feb '08 to Jan ' 09    Industry: Learning  Project Name: SABA (iLearn)    Project Type: Development/Support  Environment: J2EE ( Java, Jsp, Servlets, SABA Framework, JavaScript, Xml), Oracle 9i, Eclipse, Jdk1.4, Weblogic 8.1    Role: Java Developer  Responsible for:  • Analyzing and Creating design of different functional requirements and providing estimates.  • Involving in development of different functional requirements.  • Implemented E-Mail functionality for the Messaging and for Reports as Attachment.  • Developed Java Components for the Core Business Logic.  • Documenting the changes done for each deployment.  • Involved in writing the JUnit test cases for requirements.    ASSIGNMENT 9: Telesales IBM India pvt limited February 2007 to January 2008 Project Type: Development/Maintenance  Environment: Java, JDBC, JSP, Struts, EJB, XML, Oracle and 3rd party vendors    Role: Developer  Responsible for:  • Involved in coding Struts Action Classes.  • Implemented the Client side and Server-side Validations using Struts Validator plug-in.  • Developed Java Components for the Core Business Logic.  • Implemented the Presentation Logic using JSP.  • Documenting the changes done for existing system. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Engineering Bhim Rao Ambedkar University