Senior Java Developer Senior <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Java Developer - Uline Kenosha, WI Work Experience Senior Java Developer Uline - Pleasant Prairie, WI March 2018 to Present 18 months)  ? Served as Senior Java developer, working on Warehouse Management applications using rest  endpoints in front of Spring and hibernate.  ? Technical lead on custom user interface for customer credit analysis written in Angular2 and TypeScript with a Java backend. Senior Consultant Red Hat - Dallas, TX April 2010 to February 2018 7 years 10 months)  ? Served as Java developer, architect and small team lead in the Middleware division of Red Hat  Consulting.  ? Developed the backend of an Advanced Data Transfer system for a large banking and financial  customer that leveraged the use of ActiveMQ and Camel Spring with Hibernate for persistence.  ? Helped migrate a legacy application into OpenShift, using SpringBoot and Camel combined with containerized ActiveMQ.  ? Architect and lead developer on Camel application deployed to Fuse container that integrated  COTS systems. Wrote data transformation code that interacted with SOAP, Rest, SFTP, Rabbit-MQ AMQP and JMS endpoints.  ? Architect and team leader on a POC project porting a legacy messaging system that produces over  1 billion messages a day into ActiveMQ. Also developed a test harness written in Python.  ? Architect, developer and subject matter expert on a high profile government project in the medical field. Designed and developed many of the core frameworks that contributed to a  successful launch. Also served as an SME on JBoss technologies that developers came to with difficult problems.  Consultant (2 years)  ? Worked on a project for a large online retail company that involved a large-scale project  refactoring a pricing and shipping calculation service. Worked with business analysts to gather  requirements and then developed the business rules in Drools.  ? Worked as a Java developer with a large telecom provider on a Spring application deployed to Tomcat that automated service provisioning. contractor and Java developer on three different United States government Raytheon - Garland, TX August 2006 to April 2010 Garland, TX 8/2006-4/2010  Software EngineerII (3 years 8 months)  ? Worked as a contractor and Java developer on three different United States government Graduate Part Time Instructor Texas Tech University - Lubbock, TX January 2005 to July 2006 1 year 6 months)  ? Instructor of record for Pre-calculus and Mathematical Analysis II (Business Calculus).  ? Prepared and delivered lectures, created exams, evaluated student performance, and held daily  office hours. Education Master of Science in Mathematics in Mathematics Texas Tech University - Lubbock, TX August 2006 Bachelor of Science in Mathematics and minor in Economics Texas Tech University - Lubbock, TX December 2004 Skills Eclipse, Ejb, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jax, Jax-ws, Jboss, Jms, Docker, Git, Html, Javascript, Jenkins, Python, Xml, Xsl, Tomcat, Openshift, Jdbc Additional Information ? Excellent verbal and written communication skills when working with a team and a proven ability  to work effectively with little supervision.  ? Strong problem solving skills with an ability to turn a complex problem into a simple solution.  ? In-depth experience designing and developing applications following Object-Oriented principles  and design patterns.  ? Proven ability to deliver quality work in stressful situations with an impending deadline.  ? Ability to quickly learn proficiency in new languages and technologies.    TECHNICAL SKILLS    Languages Java, Python, XML, XSL, Drools, JavaScript, HTML, SQL  OS Linux (RHEL and Ubuntu), Windows, Mac OSX  Frameworks Apache CXF, Camel, Spring, EJB, Hibernate, JDBC, JMS, JAX-WS, JAX-RS  Containers JBossAS, JBoss BRMS, Fuse, Karaf OSGi, Tomcat, OpenShift, Docker  Technologies Eclipse, IntelliJ, Maven, MySQL, Git, Matlab, ActiveMQ, Oracle, Ansible, Jenkins