Senior Application Developer / Application Technical Lead Senior Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> / Application Technical Lead Senior Application Developer / Application Technical Lead - Barclays Naples, FL Passionate software engineer, architect and hands-on technology leader with over 15 years of industry experience in software engineering and architecting large-scale customer facing applications. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Application Developer / Application Technical Lead Barclays 2016 to Present Lead on several projects enhancing the primary customer facing website.  ? Guide offshore teams of core business requirements to meet project delivery deadlines.  ? Guide junior developers, review code design, and conduct code reviews to maintain quality of code.  ? Primary lead to ensure monitoring alerts and system events were assessed, prioritized, and managed.  ? Manage new feature developments and defect using agile process.  ? Coordinate and manage code releases of shared APIs with other IT groups.  ? Designed and developed JWT authentication infrastructure to allow internal and external single sign-on logins into customer website. Replaced primary Single Sign On mechanism for customer care agents and  mobile application integration with customer website.  ? Work closely with multiple teams to define restful API contracts that multiple clients consume.  ? Continually advocating for technical stack modernization that produced RESTful web services and React  components. Senior Application Developer Barclays 2012 to 2015 Project Description: Senior Application Developer on the Apply Rewrite and UI Refresh projects assisting with the transition of legacy code environment to a new technology stack: Stripes, TestNG, Mockito, Spring, Spring-WS,  Hibernate, JAX-B, Maven, Oracle, and YUI    ? Designed and implemented multiple web services in a SOA environment utilizing Maven, Spring, JAXB 2.0, and Hibernate against Oracle 10G Databases.  ? Redesigned and improved core features for a Java customer website application using Stripes and Spring  Framework  ? Assisted with management of deployments into a multi-tier environment using Jenkins 1.  ? Worked with Performance Engineering team to analyze code and determine improvements that could be  made for improved customer experience and resource utilization.  ? Wrote a proof of concept that implemented Spring @Async annotations to improve login time during data  prefetch operations. Login times improved ~50% which allowed for expansion of data prefetch abilities which the business team took advantage of to provide additional information to customer upon login.  ? Created 3DES encryption library by implementing Java Crypto libraries for SSO functionality between Customer Website and external vendors.  ? Built feature toggle framework utilizing mbeans to allow specific functionality to be enabled and disabled on demand. Java Developer / Senior Application Developer Systems Engineering Services (SESC) 2008 to 2011 Project Description: Senior Application Developer on Barclaycard Boost Rewards project; enabled customers to enhance reward benefits to increase customer loyalty  ? Team leader guiding two developers; translated/defined business requirements to ensure features met  expectations.  ? Created technical guidance/specifications for developer to initiate an Identity Provider Process (IDP) flow  using SAML 2 to provide Single Sign on functionality.  ? Led quality testing effort, worked with external vendor (Cartera) to troubleshoot and debug technical issues  ? Reviewed work efforts and coordinated tasks between team developers to ensure on-time, accurate delivery.    Project Description: Application Developer / Senior Application Developer on Website Enhancement project in which my team developed numerous new features enabling customers to complete tasks online, resulting in a significant  drop in customer service calls  ? Directed/assisted operations of up to eight developers to meet project timelines.  ? Created/modified features in an existing system from start to finish utilizing Struts 1.0, JMock 2, StrutsTestCase, Oracle, SVN, Eclipse, and YUI with an Agile development process in the existing architecture.  ? On call problem solver - carried pager and provided immediate response support during production releases.  ? Evaluated outside team identified code issues, recommended proper team response to ensure timelines  achieved. Software Developer Florida Department of Environmental Protection Florida September 2004 to 2008 Drove the redesign of the Division of Water's portal using JSF, UML, JSPWiki, KavaCharts, and Ajax.  ? Led 20 person FDEP Java User Group which swelled to 50 people at its peak  ? Wrote/tested code on a complex web application that tracked and reported financial information using  Struts, Oracle 9i/10g, JUnit and StrutsTestCase  ? Assisted/designed Oracle 10g data structure including multiple relational tables, stored procedures, keys, functions, and sequences. Education Bachelor of Science College of Arts and Sciences May 2004 Computer Science Florida State University - Tallahassee, FL Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, jquery, Jsp, Jstl, Servlets, Struts, Database, Jdbc, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Css, Tomcat, Web services, Weblogic, Visual studio, React (1 year), Javascript, Spring Boot, Git, SVN, SASS, Docker, Mockito, JMock, Spring-WS, Maven, JSON, Tomcat Links http://@Async