Sr. Java /Architect Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> /Architect <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java /Architect Developer - AT&T New York, NY • 10 years of experience in software development in all phases of SDLC in Financial, Investment, Insurance, Health, Transportation, Bio-Technology and in Banking industry specializing in Web and Client/Server technologies in development of n -tier applications using Java related technologies.  • Delivered series of software solutions including windows applications, web applications, corporate portals, B2B exchanges, e-commerce solutions, hosting solutions.  • Highly skilled with object oriented software design, effective coding practices, databases, and servers. Able to deliver a project from a concept through deployment. Experienced with capturing and documenting requirements from business users  • Experience with enterprise and web software engineering, technical and business analysis, and software engineering lifecycle.  • I am a Sr. software engineer with 10 years in Java, relational database, Web services etc. I am a Sr. Java developer who has both knowledge and practical experience with J2EE components, MongoDB, Spring boot, such as Servlets, Java Sever Pages (JSP), and spring, Swing, EJB, AWS and Struts, cloud computing, JavaBeans, Web services, and web-client programming such as XML, HTML and JavaScript.    ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES  • Very good experience in java/j2ee development, deployment and support activities. I have very good experience in JSP, Servlet, Struts, Spring, AWS, EJB2 and EJB3. I have very good experience in SOAP web- services.  • I have very good experience in Restful, JSON web service using jersey. Very good experience in performing unit, system and integration testing using JUnit, SOAP UI and shell scripts.  • Very good experience in UNIX/Linux Shell scripting and UNIX administrator. Good experience in Perl and Python scripting.  • Good experience in working with remote team under scrum/agile model. Proficient in database development and writing PL/SQL code using Oracle  • Experienced in Software development of Web applications, Client/Server systems, Distributed Applications and other custom-built projects on UNIX and Windows.  • Good experience in Cloud SaaS, PaaS, Iaas. Good experience in UI front, in JSP, Struts, Java script, angular JS, html, CSS, jQuery. Good knowledge in Apache ant, maven, Gradle, GIT, Jenkins/Hudson  • Very good experience in Weblogic and tomcat. Good experience in eclipse IDE, Oracle jdeveloper 11 and 12. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java /Architect Developer AT&T - Atlanta, GA March 2014 to Present AT&T nation's largest wireless service provider to 131.8 million subscribers in the United States, including Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Worked on Ecommerce and several internal java related projects  Project: CDP (Cloud delivery platform) & Ecommerce, several java projects  Description: I was part of CDP-Dev and then CDP-Core team and was working on an Ecommerce and other internal several Java/J2EE based projects. CDP stands for 'Cloud delivery platform' which was based on cloud and virtualization concepts, integrated with AWS.  Technologies: Java, j2ee, Spring, spring boot, Struts, EJB, MongoDB, Web Services, AWS Integration, JS, PHP, No SQL, JSP, restful, SOAP, SVN, GIT, Cassandra, Jenkins, SWM Package (for custom packing and installation), UNIX scripting, Firebrand and Junit, Jetty server (for web service testing), Wiki and other project related document  CDP- (Core team) Reporting to: 'Dewayne Hafenstein' Chief Technical Architect in AT&T Sr. Java Developer Sbarro - Rockville, NY February 2010 to March 2014 Sbarro, LLC is a chain of pizzeria that specializes in New York. Sbarro has over 900 locations in 33 countries. Sbarro stores are located in shopping malls, airports, service areas, and college campuses.  Project: E-Commerce Site  Description: The site was created to provide ability to sell health foods from a multitude of retail stores. It allowed to look over menus of restaurants and to purchase food on-line. The site offers a search for the restaurant through location, cuisine and specialty foods. The administrative part of the site supports an ability to change menus and to monitor orders remotely.  Used Technologies: Java, Java Servlets, JSP, HTML, Swing, Apache, Oracle 7.0, Java 2, J2EE, JBoss 3.0.6, Blazze 1.0, Hibernate, Webwork, Web logic, Web services, Spring, Struts, Oracle 11g, Web service SOAP, Oracle adf, Eclipse  Responsibilities: Implementation of business logic and business objects for the project. Development of administrative and core components part of the site.  Designed, developed ( Java 2.0, JSP, HTML5, JavaScript, JDBC, Oracle 7, Java 2, J2EE, Hibernate, Oracle 11g), web services, and planned, implemented administrative site security system for database access control  Developed customized client-side modules (JSP/Servlet, angular JS, HTML, Java script, jquery) Java Developer Neometrics - Hauppauge, NY December 2008 to December 2009 Neometrics leading manufacturer of medical devices and software and a service provider for the Newborn Care, Neurology, Sleep, Hearing and Balance markets. Natus products are used in hospitals, clinics and laboratories worldwide. Our mission is to improve outcomes and patient care in target markets through innovative screening, diagnostic and treatment solutions.  Description: The system is a fully automatic billing solution. It integrates many features: administrative hosting control, client signup module, automatically invoicing feature, refund system, discount system, report generating system, reseller feature, client email notification module, clients account control system and more.  Used technologies: Java 2, J2EE, JBoss 3.0.6, Blazze 1.0, JFC/Swing, Struts, spring, Hibernate, Eclipse, Oracle 11g, Perl  I was Responsible for the designing and development.  I developed administrative client GUI (Blazze, JFC, and Swing).  I developed customer's client GUI (Webwork, JSP)  I created server side logic as EJB beans. Java Developer Wells Fargo - Des Moines, IA February 2006 to October 2008 Wells Fargo Home Mortgage started a re-engineering project to replace their existing Capacity Management application with new core functionalities. Capacity Planning: - Re- engineered the Web Enabled Capacity Planning Tool (CPT) with a new location, new navigation, new look, new technologies, and new core business functionalities. Budget Automation: - The Budget Automation Tool was new online tool.  Used Technologies: Java 2, J2EE, JSP, Jakarta Tomcat, Eclipse, Web Logic, and MySQL, Java, C/C++, Applets, HTML, IIS, Ms SQL Server  Responsibilities: Development and implementation of the project  Analyzed users needs and planed information streams (UML, Rational Roses);  Developed and implemented a database structure and software modules (SQL, Ms SQL Server, MS Access);  Designed the server applications for a financial analysis and representation of the stock quotation in real time  Developed client environment for financial analysis ( Java 1.1, Applets, HTML, JavaScript, IIS 3.0 -4.0);  Responsible design and implementation of the server side software, business logic and database structure of the project (UML)  Implemented business logic on server-side as Entity Beans and Session Beans (EJB, JDBC, WebLogic)  I developed web-based software modules (JSP, HTML)  I implemented software utilities for the site administration.  Developed front end software modules in JSP, HTML; Education Bachelor's Skills Java (10+ years), JSP (10+ years), SOAP (9 years), Struts (10+ years), Web Services (9 years)