Service Now Developer Service Now <span class="hl">Developer</span> Jersey City, NJ • Around 9+ years of experience in IT with around 4+ years of experience on Service Now Development, Maintenance, and administration.  • Hands-on experience in implementation of various IT processes on ServiceNow such as Incident and Problem Management, ESS, Change Management, HR Catalog, Service Catalog, PPM and other ServiceNow modules.  • Great IT Service Management ITSM experience in Service Catalog, Requirement Fulfilment, Self Service Portal, Incident Management, Change Management, Problem Management, Learning Management on ServiceNow platform.  • Develop KPIs and provide ITSM performance metrics reports using ServiceNow Performance Analytics Module. Experience gathering and documentation of requirements, acceptance criteria and other artifacts using the SDLC application in ServiceNow.  • Knowledgeable in configuring, administering ServiceNow application and building customized application not involving scripting.  • Understanding of IT service management ITSM and the ITIL business process. Maintain service.  • Participated in process designing sessions and documented ITIL process flows for various modules like Incident, Change, Configuration, Problem and Service Catalog.  • Worked with development, security, infrastructure and operations teams to specify, configure, deploy and manage scalable, highly available applications and services on the AWS platform.  • Worked on HRSM Application for handling all On Boarding, Off Boarding employees in Service Now.  • Identifies/defines appropriate operational best practices and guidelines for the AWS platform  • The AWS Administrator works with infrastructure and operations staff to integrate existing infrastructure with the AWS platform and to trouble shoot problems with new or existing integration's.  • Configured Event Management (ITOM) by configuring connector instances and connector definitions.  • Having experience of ITOM (IT OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT) on BSM MAP, Discovery, Cloud provisioning and Event Management.  • Good Knowledge of XML technologies like XPath expressions, regular expressions, XSL style sheets.  • Configured Applications using Service-Now tool used in ITIL Management. Strong understanding of ITIL V3.  • Functional knowledge and implementation experience of IT Service Management ITSM frameworks and demonstrated project management skills and experience working directly with Customers and Clients.  • Working knowledge of Knowledge articles, incidents, CMDB and dictionaries Hands on experience developing CMS in Service Now.  • Maintain Single Sign-On integration, worked on Various Web Services Integrations using SOAP and REST.  • Experience with Web Technology; such as: XML, HTML, JavaScript and Web Services. Experience in creating scripts like Client Scripts, Catalog Client Scripts, UI scripts and UI Policies. Created catalog items, workflows, inbound emails actions and update sets for service requests.  • Good working knowledge on JavaScript, HTML, XML, XSLT, XPATH, CSS, Jelly, Angular JS and ServiceNow specific Glide API's.  • Well versed with J2EE, HTML, XML, Java Script, Ajax, Angular JS, Web Services( REST, SOAP), IBM Web Sphere, JBoss EBS, Informatica, IBM HATS, Oracle, SQL Server, SVN, perforce and CVS technologies.  • Performed several Integrations like LDAP, SSO, CHEF, JIRA POC, and Remedy E bonding.  • Hands on experience in web development using HTML, JavaScript and CSS.  • Good understanding of Object Oriented analysis design and application development.  • Strong experience in working on user interface applications and professional web applications using HTML 4.0/5, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, JSON, AJAX and XML.  • Always ready with Requirement / Data collection templates for Incidents, problems, SLA's, CMDB, Software Asset management, Hardware Asset management etc. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Service Now Developer pal - Cambridge, MA February 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Identified system or application needs  • Analysed of current business practices, user needs and work flow processes.  • Establish project governance and facilitates Steering and Work team meetings  • Update/track project implementation plan.  • Develop, schedule and facilitate test plans for software, network, integration, user acceptance and parallel usage.  • Prepared and implement procedures for downtime, end-users, production, and help desk.  • Created HRSM cases for automated HR processes, such as employee onboarding and offboarding.  • Automated standardized HR process using HRSM.  • Facilitated design analysis with users to determine configuration for the user interface  • Specified the design decisions in an accurate and testable manner for developers and database analysts.  • Managed servers on the Amazon Web Services (AWS) platform instances using Puppet, Chef, and Configuration management.  • Analyzed clinical use of existing systems to identify problem to be resolved and defines system applications or process improvements.  • Determined, analysed and formulates current practices, user needs and workflow processes, issues and potential solutions.  • Obtained relevant data/information. Analyses, aggregates, assimilates, and validates data/information.  • Worked with cross functional teams that contribute to the definition of the processes, standards, and methodologies, their adoption and governance.  • Assists with adherence by all lines of business to the IT Service Management enterprise policies, standards, processes, procedures and guidelines for all ITIL processes  • Participates in ensuring analyses of data, establishment of new governance metrics, KPIs, and additional reporting  • Extensive experience with partnering with stakeholders to ensure ITIL processes are understood, adhered to, and improved.  • Designed and developed solutions within the ServiceNow environment to include new or modifications to applications, forms, workflow, policies, actions, access control, interfaces and any other configurations required to support client processes.  • Configured Event Management (ITOM) by configuring Connector Instances and Connector Definitions.  • Monitored the AWS environment to ensure efficient usage of AWS services.  • Create IAM user and provide access on AWS console for requested application.  • Worked on EC2, S3, CloudFront, RDS, ELB, Cloudwatch, IAM, security groups in AWS.  • Configured ServiceNow discovery and orchestration.  • Responsible for the implementation of ServiceNow ITSM suite, Discovery, CMDB, Event Management, Service Watch/Service Mapping.  • Worked on Orchestration to automate the top and frequently used service requests.  • Defined the functional needs for our ITSM system, ServiceNow, and architected the specific implementation.  • Worked on Discovery and set up mid servers and check for the connectivity, Became an expert in troubleshooting Discovery tool.  • Worked on Business Service mapping and wrote scripts in the sensors in order to map CI's so that the end user can have a graphical representation of CI's and their relationship through BSM.  • Worked on Discovery in order to re-locate the devices that were irregularly managed and found a solution in resolving the issues using the discovery tool for a better use.  • Performed integration between service watch and service now CMDB.  • Activated and setup of the discovery plug-in.  • Also worked on Discovery module to discovery IBM Mainframes and its related components LPAR, DB2, CICS, and MQ and populate them in the CMDB.  • Created and managed SLA definitions for deferent Service Groups and Software discovery.  • Conducted assessment of existing change control, incident and problem management processes to develop and implement continuous process improvement plan.  • Performed integrations and process automation using ServiceNow Orchestration.  • Design and maintain Service Portal for user access to Knowledge Base and Service Catalog.  • Worked on ServiceNow ITOM business development, project delivery / implementation, building Servicenow ITOM practice & competency (Service Mapping, Discovery, CMDB, Event Management), and providing consultancy services to business regarding overall strategic business transformation leveraging ServiceNow. Service Now Consultant Walmart - Sunnyvale, CA October 2015 to January 2017 Responsibilities:  • Worked with Incident Management application, Problem Management, Change Management applications in escalating issues, logging, catering, diagnosing, resolving, monitoring, and reporting in SNOW.  • Used ITIL practices to implement ServiceNow applications in phase by phase approach, created SLAs and participated in running SLAs and responsible for closing successfully in ServiceNow.  • Coordinated installation of ServiceNow upgrades and/or service packs.  • Developed and managed the preparation of systems, test criteria and control of upgrades, service packs, new functionality, enhancements and error correction.  • Implemented ServiceNow ITOM products, including Discovery, Service Mapping and Active Directory Password Reset (Orchestration) Applications.  • Set the Configuration of HRSM to handle day to day operations.  • Modified, supported and developed HRSM custom applications.  • Worked on Service Mapping to define business services, troubleshoot the discovery and mapping process as well as create new discovery patterns.  • Implemented Incident Management, Problem Management, Change Management, Event Management, and SCCM integration service, ITOM, ITSM, CMDB, PPM, SNOW, Reporting, and Service Catalog in ServiceNow.  • Upgraded old Altiris environment to the latest version 7.1 SP2 MR1 for Asset Management Team to use the CMDB for asset tracking.  • Generation of monthly Altiris Patch Reports giving management an accurate view of software update patch compliance.  • Created collections of computers in Altiris with specific characteristics to accurately and strategically  • target software package delivery.  • Wrote business rules to avoid empty configuration items to be stored in CMDB after discovery tool runs a scheduled job.    Environment: ServiceNow, Asset Management, Incident Management, Problem Management, Calgary Release of ServiceNow tool (Incident, Problem, service catalogs), ITOM, PPM, HTTP, FTPS, ServiceNow ITSM tool, Java scripts, Jelly Script, REST, Workflows and HP quality center, SDLC, HP ALM Service Now Consultant Kaiser Permanente - Pleasanton, CA March 2014 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Implemented Asset Management module, providing a solution for automatic scanning of assets via barcode scanner.  • Experience with automation configuration tools like Chef and Ansible.  • Create Chef Automation tools and builds, and do an overall process improvement to any manual processes.  • Developed solutions in the ServiceNow platform that are sustainable and ITIL compliant, identify and define business solutions for ITIL users.  • Created HTML email templates using HTML, Jelly and Angular JS for email customers who have registered, rejected and approved for marketing campaigns.  • Conducted process audits and furnished ITIL process owner support.  • Here I specialized in IT Service Management ITSM, IT Operations management ITOM and IT Business Management ITBM applications and provides forms based workflow application development  • Wrote recipes and manifest to configure chef nodes and Puppet agents.  • Chef on AWS for application testing, deployment, and development. Prepared documentation describing the configuration state of each item that was under CM control.  • Responsible for creating various workflows for Incident Management, Change Management, Service Requests and SLA's.  • Involved in Admin tasks and closing task tickets assigned.  • Involved in reporting, familiar with the report types and scheduled reports.  • Design solutions to enhancement requests by developing with JavaScript and implementing workflows.    Environment: Servicenow Dublin, ITOM, Business Objects XI R2, JavaScript, Agile, Crystal Reports, Oracle 10g/11g, SQL Server ServiceNow Consultant HEB - San Antonio, TX May 2012 to February 2014 Responsibilities:  • Development of Service catalog which includes creating new catalog items, designing workflows and execution plans.  • Created functional and technical specifications documents for various ServiceNow modules.  • Implementation, Customization and Maintenance of ITIL modules such as Incident, Change, Problem, Knowledge, Service Catalog, CMDB in ServiceNow.  • Involved in development in ServiceNow including Implementation, Customization and Maintenance of ITIL modules such as Incident, Change, Problem, Knowledge, Service Catalog,CMDB in ServiceNow.  • Worked on CMDB from the scratch, Involved in cloning activities like raising the request for cloning and excluding some tables to be excluded from cloning depending upon requirements.  • Configured multiple Catalog Items Front-end web / GUI components using JavaScript, SOAP, CSS, Web services, HTML5.  • Good experience working with Angular JS, Compass CSS Framework, Bootstrap,CMS.  • Responsible in building Catalog items in ServiceNow, building SLA and generating Reports in ServiceNow.  • Defined users, groups and roles and providing accessing permissions in ServiceNow.  • Participated in validating Form and Table level using UI Policies in ServiceNow.  • Worked on Service Catalog (Demand Management), Time Card, Project & portfolio Management & Financial Management.  • Team coordination for Coding, and configuration for the Instance as per customer requirement.  • Customization of Service Catalog (Demand Management), Time Card, Project & portfolio Management & Financial Management Application.  • Coordinating the instance upgrade activities.    Environment:Service now, Java Script, Ajax, Jelly, UI Pages, UI Actions, UI scripts, Catalog Items, Script Include, Client Scripting, Workflows, Notifications and ACL's, Asset Management. Java UI Developer Diverse Lynx - San Francisco, CA July 2010 to June 2012 Responsibilities:  • Gathered required information about the schools and the administration.  • Developed dynamic pages using JSP tags to invoke Servlets.  • Involved in server side coding using Servlets.  • Designed web pages using Java script/ HTML. Validations for the Client Side were done using JavaScript.  • Developed Business components using JavaBeans and database connections using JDBC. Involved in Designing and creating database tables.  • Wrote various queries using SQL and used SQL server as the database.  • Created Record Producers, Order Guides, Catalog Client Scripts, Work flows, Script Includes.  • Involved in cloning activities like raising the request for cloning and excluding some tables to not come under cloning.  • Worked on UI Macros to create pages as templates on requirement from the stake holders.  • Involved in cloning activities like raising the request for cloning and excluding some tables to not come under cloning.    Environment: Java, HTML, JSP, Servlets, Java Beans, JDBC, Apache Tomcat, Oracle, Windows NT. Software Developer Dropbox - San Francisco, CA November 2008 to June 2010 Responsibilities:  • Apply SOA principles in designing the architecture of the system.  • Define service endpoints for the web service.  • Develop the request format (contract) accepted by the service.  • Create a loosely coupled system in which the client and the database server aren't totally dependent on each other.  • Construct the database schema using Entity Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).  • Construct a simple relational database using Microsoft SQL Server.  • Develop an API using ASP.NET Web API.  • Create an Android application using Android Studio.  • Use the Retrofit 2 HTTP client in the Android app for calling the API.  • Test the Android app on differently configured emulators and multiple devices.  • Deploy the REST API on Azure Cloud hosting.    Environment: Javascript, .NET, Asp.Net, Java, React, PHP, C#. Education Bachelor's Skills HTML (3 years), JAVASCRIPT (6 years), JAVA (6 years), ITIL (6 years), WEB SERVICES (3 years), Hadoop Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    • Scripts & Languages C, C++, Core Java, Shell Script XML, Ajax, HTML, CSS  • Databases: MySQL 5.0.1, DB2, Oracle11g  • Operating Systems UNIX, Linux, Ubuntu, Windows XP/Vista/7/8/10  • Networking TCP/IP, NAT, DNS, DHCP, SNMP, SMTP  • Source Control Tool Service-Now (ITSM Tool), ITOM, PPM, JavaScript, XML, Java, HTML, CSS, SOAP, Ajax, REST.  • Web Technology ASP. NET, JSP, Servlets  • Web servers LDAP, SSO, ITIL, Web Services  • Virtualisation VM Ware, Docker, Amazon Web Services EC2