SPOC SPOC SPOC - Cap Gemini India PVT Ltd ? Working as a Scrum Master and managing IT projects with over 13+ years of IT experience in delivery using SDLC and Agile ( SCRUM Framework) methodologies  ? Having 3+ Years of Experience in leading Delivery teams; Extensive experience in agile delivery - PSM1 & SAFe certified  ? Having 4+ years of expierience as Project Management ( involved in project delivery, planning, execution, monitoring and resource balancing)  ? Hands on experience in Proposals, Requirement Gathering, Analysis, Technical Design, Development, testing, Implementation, Deployment, Support and Maintenance of Web\Client based applications using Java\.net Technologies  ? Skilled in liaising extensively with external or internal clients and analysing client' existing systems.  ? Achieved project profitable high by minimizing the project costs like using low profile resources, offshore driven deliverables, etc  ? Value-Added Leadership: Cross-Functional Supervision, Team Building & Mentoring, Client Relations & Presentations, Business & IT Planning  ? As a Scrum Master facliated Sprint Planning, Daliy Scrum, Sprint Review, Sprint Retorospective and Backlog Refinment ceremonies in each Sprint  ? Closely worked with Product Owners for managing backlog in Helathy Condition. Helped Product owners in successfully running User Story Creation Work Shops and Backlog Refinement sessions.  ? Coached Scrum Teams on Scrum values, principles. Recommended Best Engineering Practices, Automation Frameworks like Selinium and CucumberS  ? Good experience in working with JIRA as Agile Project Management Tool.  ? Conversant with all phases of Software Development Life Cycles (Development, Planning, Analysis, Design and Deployment of the Software Solutions)  ? Mentored project team in terms of technical skills and resolving team conflicts  ? Having 4+ years of experience in Java/J2EE technologies  ? Good experience on Rate Validation Testing  ? Good experience in middle ware technologies like eGate 4.1.x, eGate 4.5.x (Monk & Java) versions, ICAN 5.0.5, eInsight and Sun Java Caps, Tibco on UNIX and Windows platforms.  ? Hands on experience in developing and managing Insurance rate engine tools (RatTrap & Presto)  ? Having experience in co-ordination between internal teams and stakeholders.  ? Extensively worked on Insurance & Retail Domain projects.  ? Good knowledge in Data Science Tools & Technologies (Machine learning, Supervised and Unsupervised algorithms, Text Analytics, Clustering, Classification, PCA, Kmean, SVM, Random Forest)  ? Knowledge in Big Data technologies like Hadoop, Hive, Pig, Sqoop, PySpark, Hue and HBase. Work Experience SPOC Cap Gemini India PVT Ltd - US March 2018 to Present Digital Transformation Client:ACG, USA Mar 2018 -Till Date  Role:Scrum Master    Description: ACG Digital Omni-Channel Transformation program's initial releases plan to implement enhanced Insurance Self Servicing, Payment & Billing for ACG's existing Insurance processing application IPM (GA & TN) and ACG's future Insurance processing application Guidewire (GW) sourced policies for GW R1 states (GA, TN & FL)  The American Automobile Association (AAA - pronounced "Triple A") is a federation of motor clubs throughout North America.  AAA is a privately held member service business with over 58 million members in the United States and Canada.  Digital transformation project covers the Auto & Home Insurance for Florida, Georgia and Tennessee states    User interaction with digital portal (website/mobile portal) goes through different technical layers such as AngularJS (ionic), Salesforce portal, Mulesoft (as ESB and API Manager) and underlying service layers (guidewire, ACG service, POC etc )  Roles and Responsibilities:  ? As a Scrum Master facliated Sprint Planning, Daliy Scrum, Sprint Review, Sprint Retorospective and Backlog Refinment ceremonies in each Sprint  ? Closely worked with Product Owners for managing backlog in Helathy Condition. Helped Product owners in successfully running user Story Creation work shops and Backlog Refinement sessions.  ? Coached Scrum Teams on Scrum values, principles. Recommended Best Engineering Practices, Automation Frameworks like Selinium and Cucumber  ? Helped team in closing Risks, Issues and dependencies.  ? Created various Agile / project metrics for management, like Team Velocity, Defect density, Effort burn-down, Commitment Slippage, Sprint Stability, User Story Stability, Resource Utilization, Release burn down charts, Release plan, DOD and DOR, for various events with in Sprint  ? Helped team on the estimating of the user stories, using Planning Poker as estimation tool.  ? Focusing on people and Continuous Improvement all the time; provide team a platform for improvement not only during the retrospective but all the time.  ? Tracking and removing impediments or help the team to remove impediments themselves (or) by identifying the right personnel outside Scrum team to remove the impediments as needed.  ? Modifying JIRA workflows and dashboards to support in managing the user story progress and for traceability of events in management reports.  ? Acted as SPOC to Development team, Onsite Project manager for coordination of project activities & creating / generating metrics / daily reports to create transparency.  ? Handled and multiple Release across various sites around the globe and coordination with multiple teams.  ? Transitioning teams from waterfall methodology to Scrum framework, through mentoring scrum values, and providing direction through various artifacts & agile metrics.  Environment: SalesForce, UI (Angualr JS/Ionic), MuleSoft&GuideWire, JIRA and Sharepoint. C2-Manager Cap Gemini India PVT Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana March 2007 to Present Worked as a Programmer Analyst in Cognizant technology Pvt Ltd, Bangalore from April 2005 to March 2007. Technical Manager & Scrum Master Cap Gemini India PVT Ltd - US May 2011 to December 2017 2.6 Years)    Description: Progressive Insurance is one of the largest U.S. auto insurance group, with annual revenues of more than U.S. $14 billion.Progressive provides insurance in Auto, Boat, Commercial Auto, Motorcycle and RV (Recreational Vehicle) in the United States. Customers can purchase insurance online, by phone or through independent insurance agents.Progressive is replacing a nearly 30-year-old mainframe-based policy management application called Proteus that is central to its operations to migrate to .net frame work.I am part of the RVT team.  RVT is one of the channels for the progressive business to verify the match rate between existing legacy system to new policypro system. RVT team addresses the policy premium mismatches between both systems, if any mismatch found on a policy, the team will analyze and fix the issue.RVT team also run renewals in policypro system for existing production policies.  This testing event is to make sure the rates are stable even the system is migrated to new technology, the goal of the event is to prove that there is no impact on rating which will be sent to the end customer even after the migration because change in the rates may have very critical impact that there is a high chance of losing the customer and face class law suits in the court of law.  Roles and Responsibilities:  ? As a Scrum Master facliated Sprint Planning, Daliy Scrum, Sprint Review, Sprint Retorospective and Backlog Refinment ceremonies in each Sprint.  ? Closely worked with Product Owners for managing backlog in Helathy Condition. Helped Product owners in successfully running user Story Creation work shops and Backlog Refinement sessions.  ? Coached Scrum Teams on Scrum values, principles. Recommended Best Engineering Practices, Automation Frameworks like Selinium and Cucumber.  ? Helped team in closing Risks, Issues and dependencies.  ? Coordinating with on site and offshore team in different issues/activities.  ? Responsible for end-to-end Delivery, Resource Planning, Business Process transformation at global level  ? Responsible managing projects in multi-vendor environments;  ? Conversant with all phases of Software Development Life Development, Planning, Analysis, Design and Deployment of the Software Solutions.  ? Proven experience in Project Planning, Execution, Customer Relationship Management  ? Mentored project team in terms of technical skills and resolving team conflicts  ? Involved checking the Rate Validation for premiums by using RVT tool.  ? Involved daily status calls with onshore.  ? Involved daily defect calls with clients.  ? Interface with Tech on site Lead and others members at offshore to understand the status, issues, and risks and provide updates in the work group sessions.  ? Facilitate client sign-offs on project deliverables.  ? Utilize the technical expertise on the presto and Rattrap tools. Responsible for reporting Product status to Delivery Managers, Project Managers and Customers.  ? Targeting all scenarios to be covered as per client requirement.  ? Perform requirement analysis or review requirements, gap/impact analysis, high-level/low level design, development and test support based on customer requirements.  Environment: Presto Tool, RVT Tool, JIRA and Sharepoint.  Project Name:SunLife (Individual Productivity Reporting) Java Senior Developer Cap Gemini India PVT Ltd - US December 2010 to May 2011 Description: The Direct Distribution (DD) Individual Productivity Reporting (IPR) systems will be used to provide a web based productivity tracking application used by the Direct Distribution. Access to the application will be managed within Nexus Admin and a link will be available on the Menu Portal for entry. This application will be used daily by the majority of DD staff to log their productivity. In this application we maintain three types of system access roles:  ? Staff (role 1): Data entry, View any prior day IPR, Modify any prior day IPR up to limit  ? Team Leads and Managers (role 2): View any staff IPR, Modify any staff IPR, Data entry  ? Administrators (role 3): View any staff IPR, Modify any staff IPR, Change/update Activities, create/update team, Add/Remove roles to team, assign team/role to staff member.  Roles Description:  ? Involved in Designing  ? Involved in coding in struts framework  ? Involved in unit testing.  ? Involved daily status calls with onshore.  ? Involved in Fixing Bugs  ? Perform requirement analysis, impact analysis, high-level/low level design, development and test support based on customer requirements.  Environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, Struts, Java Script and oracle. Senior Developer Cap Gemini India PVT Ltd January 2010 to November 2010 Description: CNA is into North America insurance business. As part of the business CNA deals with claims and policies. In the process there is lot of reliance on paper to process claims. This project is to enable the Claims Organization to minimize reliance on paper claim file. Other important objectives are Standardize the Claim organization onto a single correspondence generation platform and Streamline business processes related to form creation and governance.  ? This project had three streams. a) Migrate old versioned Adobe templates to latest. b) Create new Templates and c) Do specific changes to Middleware to accommodate version migrations.  Roles Description:  ? Involved in Developing new Forms  ? Involved in Unit Testing of Forms  ? Involved in Fixing Bugs  Environment: Adobe LiveCycle Designer, XML and Java Script. Senior Developer Cap Gemini India PVT Ltd - US March 2007 to December 2009 Description: TXU has power generation, distribution and retail businesses. EAI has been extensively used to integrate almost all of the internal function specific applications, market participants and vendors.  This project involves maintenance of 18 schemas (120 interfaces) . These interfaces interact with market participants, internal applications and regulatory commission (ERCOT) on daily basis. The work primarily constitutes administration of egate environment, maintenance of the Projects/Interfaces which also includes implementation of enhancements to the existing interfaces.    Roles Description:  ? Bug Fixes  ? Implementation of Change requests and Enhancements  ? 24x7 support for all Interfaces  ? Operation support for all Interfaces  ? Administration of e*Gate 4.1.2 and e*Gate 4.5.2 Environments.  ? Review Design of projects  ? Code Review for newly developed projects  Environment: Seebeyond (eGate 4.1.2/4.5.2), Unix, Java and Oracle Developer Marathon Oil Corporation March 2006 to February 2007 Description: COPS (Common One Procurement System) is an application connecting to heterogeneous environment to complete the procurement activity. webMethods 4.1 and 4.6 versions are used to communicate between the heterogeneous environment like J2EE container, MainFrame, CICS and SQL applications. To improve the throughput migration has been done using webMethods 6.1. Migration activity involved reengineering and optimization of code. Synchronous and Asynchronous communication is activated for increasing the throughput and guaranteed delivery.  The application COPS is used eProcurement to create Purchase Orders, change PO and cancel PO by the business users.  Roles Description:  ? Involved in Designing  ? Involved in coding in struts framework.  ? Involved in unit testing.  ? Involved daily status calls with onshore.  ? Involved in Fixing Bugs  ? Perform requirement analysis, impact analysis, high-level/low level design, development and test support based on customer requirements.  Environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, Struts, Java Script and oracle. Developer General Motors Acceptance Corporation August 2005 to February 2006 Description: GSS requires integrating the wholesale online system and Dealer Lead Management system to get dealer information as well as vehicle information.  Dealer Lead Management system & Whole sale online systems: The Data Point application allows GSS System to communicate information associated with DLM Reports via batch-flat files. The details are processed by relevant backend GM systems and processed results are passed back to the dealers via the same gateway infrastructure. Data Point will put specific files at a particular place, using FTP whenever the Batch process will start in GSS it will pick up those files and it will insert the data in appropriate tables and the J2EE tier will get the data from the same tables and update in the forms.  In the whole sale online system ICAN invoke the web services which are running in the whole sale system and get the data then based on the data generates alerts in the GSS data model.  Roles Description:  ? Involved in Designing  ? Involved in coding in struts framework.  ? Involved in unit testing.  ? Involved daily status calls with onshore.  ? Involved in Fixing Bugs  ? Perform requirement analysis, impact analysis, high-level/low level design, development and test support based on customer requirements.  Environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, Struts, Java Script and oracle. Developer BCBS Regence - US April 2005 to July 2005 Description: In the Existing Regence Business TM (Transaction Management) receives the ANSI 278 request transactions from Blue Exchange, THIN (The Healthcare Information Network) and Utah EDI (Electronic Data Interchange) . TM routes the 278 request to the appropriate Legacy system based on the member's coverage. The 278 response is generated based on plan business and workflow requirements. The ANSI 278 request is then printed to paper and processed appropriately by Regence Utilization Management. Finally, a summary report of the inbound ANSI 278 transactions is produced for the Idaho Facets 2.96 transactions only. Changes include a Routing Services (RTR) enhancement to determine CPSS membership eligibility. There will also be changes to the Connection Services (CNX) layer to publish an ANSI 278 to the Utah report server. Utah/EDI scripts will be created to generate the UM50 report for CPSS.  Roles Description:  ? Involved in coding and modifications.  ? Involved in prepare the test data.  ? Responsible for Preparing Unit Test cases for testing  ? Involved in unit testing  Environment: Seebeyond (eGate 4.5.2), Unix, Java and Oracle. Education Master of Computer Applications in Computer Applications Kakatiya University Bachelor in Computer Science Kakatiya University Skills TESTING (9 years), FRAMEWORKS (8 years), JAVA (6 years), ORACLE (5 years), SEEBEYOND (3 years) Additional Information Technical Skills  CI/CD/Devops Tools JIRA, Confluence, GitHub, Maven, Jenkins  J2EE Technologies/Frameworks JSP-Servlets, Struts, Spring, Hibernate and webservices  Languages  Java, J2EE, R Language, Python, Adobe LiveCycle Designer, XML and Java Script, Visual Force, Apex Class, WebServicies, Apex Triggers, SOQL    Others Data Science, SalesForce, Pega, Presto&RatTrap  Data Analytics Skills  Machine Learning (Supervised / Unsupervised), Regression ( Linear, Logistic), Decision Trees, Random Forests, Clustering (K-Means, Hierarchal), K-Nearest Neighbors, Association Rule Mining (Market Basket Analysis), Feature Selection, Feature Extraction, Dimensionality Reduction, Machine Learning Algorithms, Predictive Modeling, Statistical Modelling, Predictive Analytics, Hypothesis Testing.    Big Data Hadoop, HDFS, Pig, Hive, Sqoop, HBase, PySpark  Operating System Windows 95/98/2000/XP and Unix  Database Oracle  Middleware Tools Seebeyond, Sun Java Caps, MuleSoft  Domain Analytics Retail Analytics, Auto insurence Analytics    Management and Leadership Skills Project Management, Agile Implementation using SCRUM Framework, Project Development, Support and Maintenance.