Sr. UI Developer Sr. UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. UI Developer - Western Union Digital San Francisco, CA ? 11+ Years of extensive IT experience which includes the experience in designing User Interface (UI) applications and professional web applications using HTML 4.0/5, XHTML, CSS2/CSS3, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, AJAX, Node JS, Express JS, Angular JS, JSON and XML, developing Client/Server and Distributed applications using JAVA/ J2EE.  ? 3+ years of Strong experience in building ecommerce application using the JavaScript MEAN stack: MONGODB, Angular JS, Express.js and Node.js.  ? Expertise in developing single page applications (SPA) using Angular JS, Backbone JS, React JS and Redux.  ? Implemented bootstrap CSS in AngularJS for developing rich and responsive UI.  ? Good experience on working with CSS Background, Animations, and Layouts, positioning, border, margin, padding, table, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors including the Box model.  ? Worked on backend using Node.js and MONGODB.  ? Experienced in using web services like SOAP, REST.  ? Experience in writing the functionalities of the website using Ruby on Rails.  ? Strong knowledge in Designing dynamic user interface for web forms using ASP.NETMVC, HTML and implementing the business logic using C#.NET.  ? Developed and prepared test cases for unit testing with Jasmine, karma.  ? Proficient in client-side scripting and JavaScript frameworks, J-Query.  ? Experience with Firebug for Mozilla, Developer Toolbar for Chrome and IE Developer Toolbar for Internet Explorer.  ? Expertise in using source code control systems such as GIT, Github.  ? Collaborated with UX and design teams, translating complex design mock-ups into high quality, accessible, W3C standards-based code  ? Created Mobile Web Applications with Responsive Web Design, through uses of Twitter Bootstrap, J-Query Mobile and CSS3 Media Queries.  ? Proficient in developing Single Page Applications (SPA) using handlebars, backbone.js and Node.js.  ? Diagnosed and debugged a variety of cross-browser and cross-platform interface compatibility issues with Modernizer and CSS Polly fills.  ? Experienced in various IDEs like Eclipse, Net Beans, Edit Plus, Sublime text, Notepad++, Microsoft Visual, and Dreamweaver.  ? Extensive experience in designing and developing enterprise applications for J2EE platform using MVC, JAVA, JDBC/ODBC, JSP, Servlet, Struts, EJB, Hibernate, Java Mail, JNDI, Apache Ant.  ? Experience in maintaining, building and deploying Java application servers like BEA WebLogic 7.0/8.x/9.x, Bea WebLogic Portal Server7.0, IBM Websphere 5.x, JBoss 4.0.3, Tomcat [ ] and Oracle application server (OAS).  ? Experienced with RDBMS implementation and development using Oracle [ ] PL/SQL, SQL Server and MySQL [ ]  ? Experience in all phases of SDLC like including requirements gathering, analysis, designing, coding, testing, integration, and documentation, and extensive experience in Agile Development, Scrum and Waterfall Methodologies.  ? Experienced in interacting with clients to understand their needs and propose design to the team to implement the requirements.  ? Possess excellent verbal and written communication, organizational and administrative skills for project management. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. UI Developer Western Union Digital - San Francisco, CA December 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Followed the overall application MVVM architecture to create MVC layers in Angular JS and Node JS layers.  ? Involved in building MEAN full stack ecommerce web application by using MEAN JS.  ? Created modular single page sub applications using AngularJS 2.0 that can be incorporated into other projects.  ? Created front-end web Layout using Sublime with HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap.  ? Implemented responsive design for different size of devices by using Bootstrap Grid System.  ? Also involved in developing and debugging issues on Hybrid Mobile Application using Cordova platform.  ? Created server and handled requests and responses from controllers by using Express.js.  ? Implemented searching and sorting functions with Angular JS system-directive ng-filter.  ? Developed Web API using NodeJs and hosted on multiple load balanced API instances.  ? Used AngularJs 2.0 expressions to implement two-way data-binding to update information between view and model.  ? Designed and implemented customized AngularJs 2.0 services and directives for reusable functions.  ? Coded to implement AJAX based application by fetching the response from backend REST API as a part of JSON.  ? Implemented real-time updating of the user status, according to deleting and editing operation.  ? Connected server and database to update data information with Node.js and MONGODB.  ? Utilized infinite-scrolling to load data information in the view.  ? Attended Daily standup meetings (Scrum), Estimation meetings and Requirement review meetings to analyze requirements for project.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, AngularJs 2.0, Bootstrap, JSON, Node.js, Express.js, MEAN.js, MONGODB. Sr. UI Developer AppSmiles, LLC - Atlanta, GA February 2017 to November 2018 Responsibilities:    ? Designed and developed dynamic web pages using HTML5, Angular Js, Bootstrap, materialize CSS and Ruby on Rails.  ? Proficiency with DOM and asynchronous event-programming model.  ? Used HTML5 functionalities such as Local Storage, Web Sockets and Canvas.  ? Successfully implemented Auto Complete/Auto Suggest functionality using Ajax, J-Query, DHTML, Web Service call and JSON.  ? Writing unit tests in mocha, chai on server side and karma, jasmine on the client side.  ? Writing deployment scripts in NgInx and PM2 to get the project up and running on dev sandbox.  ? Made use of GRUNT CLI for minification, uglification on both server and client and running local server for client.  ? Used $http with React.js interceptors to make sure the requests were valid and used UI-router to handle nested views and avoid page redirection.  ? Maintained the code base by frequent updates to revision using GIT.  ? Experience in cross browser compatibility check and thoroughly performed unit testing using Karma and Jasmine.  ? Developed the application to be available for all locales and languages using third party plug-in with i18n packages for localization and internationalization.  ? UsedJira to keep track of outstanding bugs to reduce downtime, increase productivity, and improve communication.  ? Interacted with Testing Team, Scrum Masters, Business Analysts and Product owners for Fixing of Issues.  ? Primarily using Node Js, Express JS, Backbone.js and npm packages to integrate new functionality and maintain previous code.  ? Developed accessibility rich application and supported cross browser compatibility using ARIA.  ? Involved in Enhancement of existing application utilizing React Js.  ? Migrated existing codebase from flux to Redux and rebuilt react components in ES6.  ? Worked on ES6 features like modules, generators and destructuring.  ? Worked on cross-platform (PC/Mac, desktop, laptop, tablet) and cross-browser (IE, Firefox, Chrome, Safari) development.  ? Implemented a custom Node JS script to act as a PROXY for connecting to the server.  ? Was extensively involved in AB testing. Developed and tested AB features using Optimizely tool.  ? Experience with Mobile development and Touch interfaces.  ? Worked extensively on implementing web accessibility standards (WAI-ARIA).  ? Worked on developing JSP Tags.  ? Worked on implementing Google tags for analytics using GTM  ? Built a side project of HybridApp using Javascript.  ? Attended Daily standup meetings (Scrum), Estimation meetings and Requirement review meetings to analyze requirements for project  ? Defined new validations through Angular.js for the form field validation implemented through HTML5.  ? Defined custom HTML elements for API browsers using Google Polymers.  ? Responsible for developing a front-end application using React.js and FLUX architecture for internal team's productivity use.  ? Designed and developed client's website screens and front-end widgets using React.js.  ? Built the internal tool and maintained with React JS along with Flux and Redux.  ? Had partial capacity reserved for developing high user conversion UI models using AB testing tool Optimizley.    Environment: Express JS, Node JS, React Js, Redux, Flux, Ruby on Rails, NgInx, PM2, Mongoose, Azure AD JWT, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Backbone.js, Grunt, Bower, NPM, GIT, Mocha, Chai, Jasmine, Karma Sr. UI Developer AT&T - San Francisco, CA May 2015 to January 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Extensively used HTML5 for audio and video playback. Worked on the MVP architecture for the GWT.  ? Worked on JavaScript frameworks (Angular JS, Node JS) to augment browser based applications with MVC capability.  ? Developed multiple POCs to create a interface between Backend to Frontend by using MONGODB, Express JS, Angular Js and Node.js.  ? Used SASS and LESS extensively for Rich UI experience.  ? Extensively used JQUERY, JSON, AJAX and DOM scripting to create interactive web applications like message posting and auto complete form validations.  ? Communicating with a Node.js backend under MONGODB.  ? Experience In designing UI patterns and UI applications with the help of Adobe products like Adobe Dreamweaver CS3, Adobe Photoshop CS3/CS4 and Adobe Illustrator CS3.  ? Worked with mongoose.js for database communication with MONGODB.  ? Mean Stack development from scratch including MONGODB server setup and Node Js server development.  ? Used JIRA to keep track of outstanding bugs to reduce downtime, increase productivity, and improve communication.  ? Supporting and implementing web application built on MEAN Stack.  ? Performed client side validations over the forms using JavaScript.  ? Worked on Node.js and NoSQL data stores.  ? Designed and developed the front end using HTML, DHTML, and XML.  ? Used ng-view directive to refresh only certain section of the page and reduce the load on the web server.  ? Used filters like date, JSON, uppercase, lowercase to arrange the data that is to be displayed in a particular format.  ? Designed CSS templates for use in all pages on the website working with CSS Background, positioning, text, border,marginpadding,tablePseudo elements and CSS3 Border, CSS3 Background, CSS3 Transitions.  ? Good understanding of Node JS, understood how to configure, create server, manage routes and connect database.  ? Developed multiple POCs to create a user transaction grid in Angular JS.  ? Coded to implement AJAX based application by fetching the response from backend REST API as a part of JSON.  Environment: HTML/HTML5, XHTML, XML, CSS/CSS3, GIT, Bootstrap, J-Query, JSON, AJAX, DOM, Node.js, Angular Js, MONGODB, Express JS, Oracle DB, Jasmine, Dreamweaver. UI Engineer Neiman Marcus - Dallas, TX November 2013 to April 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Designed and developed dynamic web pages using HTML5, Angular Js, Bootstrap, materialize CSS.  ? Using RestFul APIs on Angular data binding.  ? Used HTML5 functionalities such as Local Storage, Web Sockets and Canvas.  ? Writing unit tests inkarma, jasmine on the client side.  ? Using angular directives and services for developing interceptor and complex UI data table's grids.  ? Used $http with Angular.JS interceptors to make sure the requests were valid and used ui-router to handle nested views and avoid page redirection.  ? Maintain the code base by frequent updates to revision using GIT.  ? Experience in cross browser compatibility check and thoroughly performed unit testing using Karma and Jasmine.  ? Using JIRA to keep track of outstanding bugs to reduce downtime, increase productivity, and improve communication.  ? Interacted with Testing Team, Scrum Masters and Business Analysts for Fixing of Issues.  ? Attended Daily standup meetings (Scrum), Estimation meetings and Requirement review meetings to analyze requirements for project  ? Writing RestFul APIs in Express Js and return logic on Angular data binding.  ? Writing unit tests in mocha, chai on server side and karma, jasmine on the client side.  ? Interacted with Testing Team, Scrum Masters and Business Analysts for Fixing of Issues.  ? Primarily using Node Js, Express JS, MONGODB, Handlebars.js and npm packages to integrate new functionality and maintain previous code.  Environment: MONGODB, Angular JS, Express JS, Node JS, React Js, Redux, Flux, NgInx, PM2, Mongoose, Azure AD JWT, HTML5, CSS3, Materialize, JavaScript, Angular Data-tables, Grunt, Bower, NPM, GIT, Mocha, Chai, Jasmine, Karma, WebStorm, Chrome, Firefox, IE 10+ JAVA/J2EE Developer NCR Corporation - Atlanta, GA March 2010 to October 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the analysis, design and development phases of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  ? Used Rational Rose to generate Use case diagrams, Class diagrams and Sequence diagrams that modeled the design details of the application.  ? Developed UI screens using JSP, Struts tags and HTML.  ? Used Jakarta Struts Framework, based on the Model View Controller architecture for rapid application development and ease of maintenance.  ? Used validation framework for client-side validation and Internationalization to support multiple languages.  ? Designed tables to access the database in Oracle and involved in writing PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, and Triggers.  ? Implemented several design patterns such as Business Delegate, MVC, Singleton and Factory to resolve the most common design issues.  ? Encryption and Decryption using symmetric keys.  ? Implemented PL/SQL and stored procedures for Oracle9i database.  ? Used XML parser APIs like DOM for marshalling and un marshalling of Data.  ? Used MY Eclipse for writing JSPs, Struts, and Other Java code snippets.  ? Used J-Unit framework for Unit testing of application and Clear Case for version control.  ? Built application using ANT and used Log4J to generate log files for the application. Junior Web developer T-Mobile US - Bellevue, WA May 2007 to February 2010 Responsibilities:  ? Developed websites using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery. Implemented design using CSS from provided wireframes.  ? Analysis, design and development of Application based on J2EE using MVC pattern.  ? Built pages from PSD wireframes provided by designers. Edited PSDs using Photoshop when needed.  ? Designed website using Photoshop  ? Built HTML live pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery    Environment: Java/J2EE, HTML, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery Education Bachelor's Skills Git, Javascript, Bootstrap, Node.js, Redux, Json, Svn, Ajax, Css, Dhtml, Dreamweaver, Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Database, Sql server, Oracle, Sql, Bugzilla, Mongodb Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Web Technologies HTML4/5, DHTML, CSS (2/3), Bootstrap, JavaScript, J-Query, AngularJs1.5/2.0, Express.js, Backbone.js, Node.js,React.js, Redux, Ajax, JSON.  Tools and IDEs Eclipse IDE, Net Beans, Edit plus, Notepad++, sublime text  Debugging Tools Firebug, BugZilla  Version Control SVN, GIT  Frond End Tools CorelDraw, Dreamweaver CS5, FrontPage Wire frame, Adobe Photoshop CS5, Image Ready CS5 Fireworks, Adobe Captivate 3  Operating System Windows, Unix/Linux, MAC OS X  Programming languages C, JAVA/J2EE  Database MONGODB, SQL Server, My SQL, ORACLE 11g