IOS Developer IOS <span class="hl">Developer</span> IOS Developer - American Express New York, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IOS Developer American Express - New York, NY December 2018 to Present Description:  American Express is Easier and Safer for consumers and business to purchase the things they need and for merchants to sell goods and services. American Express provides innovative payment, travel and Expense management solutions.  Amex Mobile App Provides you an Easy way to Access to features by Touch ID login and 3D Touch on supported devices. App helps to track your Recent purchases. Amex Mobile App discover offers from places you shop, dine, travel and add offers to your card in few taps.  Responsibilities:    • Used Swift in the development of the application.  • Used InAuth to handle the Login flow.  • Design the loginscreen and signupscreen.  • Implemented 3D Touch, TouchIDLogin on supported devices give you quick access to features so you get most out of your membership.  • Used MVC, singleton, delegation and Notificationpatterns.  • Added a new 'NearbyOffers' function to the app using CoreLocation, which helped locate nearby offers from shop, dine, travel.  • Worked on MapKit part to show user current location and search functionality to show nearby shop, dine, travel.  • PushNotifications that notifies the user when your card is charged and receive instant fraud alerts if suspicious activity is detected.  • Experience in consuming JSON files to parse data received from back end developers andusing the data in MVC flow.  • IntegratedNSURLSessionandNSURLConnectionto integrate with web services.  • Used SQLite and CoreData in the project for data storage.  • Worked on NSOperations, GCD and Blocks to perform multi-threaded development and asynchronous service calls.  • Implemented, designed and coded the Settings User Interface View with MVC design pattern according to the client's requirements using Navigation View, UI Table View, UI custom Cell, UI Switch and UI Web view, UI Image View for iPhone, iPad.  • Worked on Custom UI implementation with XIBs and Story boards and associated with appropriate reusable classes.  • Used Photoshop and Invision for designing app layouts  • Hands on experience with Auto Layout in XCode Interface builder.  • Worked with the Backend team to display the correct data format in devices.  • Implementing Cocoa design patterns and concepts like delegation, protocols and categories.  • Use of GIT for the version control.  • Interacting with SCRUM group engineers, developers, analyzer, item proprietors and partners to convey right estimation of the task toward the end of every sprint.  • Interacting with QA on deliverables on every iteration and customer feedback implementation.  • Designed the app based on the Apple Human Interface Guidelines.  Environment: iOS 9, XCode 8, Swift 3, Agile Methodology, Git, Java script, MVC, CSS3, , HTML5, Objective-C, Photoshop, Invision,JSON, SQLite, Core Data IOS Developer Verizon - Tampa, FL March 2016 to December 2018 Description:  Verizon is one of the leading wireless service communication provider. They work together with customers to help them choose the right plans. They customize the plans to provide relevant products and services, and help customers. My Verizon App helps to review and manage your plan, Bill payment, Feed, see your data, Support and shop.  My Verizon App gives you an easy way to personalize, organize and access Bill payment information. Data Hub control center for accessing information of data being used, how to get more if needed. Verizon app also has the fastest and easiest way to browse, customize the latest devices and accessories. On demand support In-app help customers with immediate answers.  Responsibilities:    • Worked extensively with Objective C and Swift  • Hands on experience with Cocoa Touch.  • Responsible for Creating Models and Services in conformance with the WSDL's provided.  • Responsible for Service Integration Development and Testing.  • Worked on creating auto sizing constraints for the application to make it compatible in portrait and landscape,  • Used Photoshop and Sketch for designing app layouts  • Web services deployment and testing on rest client.  • Created the complete database using Core Data.  • Complete implementation of the retrial mechanism.  • Beta testing of the application via test flight.  • Publishing the application on App store and then pushing updates after every sprint release.  • Designed the complete MVC flow for the application with UI components and controllers to be used for iPhone.  • Worked with LLVM and XCode for Debugging.  • Complete data base designing for iPhone.  • Developed critical tools for this project like customized navigation bar, page control and scroll view.  • Worked with UIKit Framework for the applications at hand.  • Worked extensively on table view controller and made customized table view cells according to the client  • Pre-fetching data for different views for smooth screen transitioning.  • Followed a work data flow principle for design and development.  • Worked closely within a cross functional team of testers and developers.  • Worked on web service call, JSON parsing included in the project.  • Worked with UIKit Framework for development and maintenance.  • Tested the application for memory leaks and relevant bugs, fixed the leaks and deployed on different iPhone firmware's to validate the application stability.  • Reported progress/challenges to onsite project lead.    Environments: iOS 9, 10 (iPhone SDK), Mac OS X, Objective C, Core Data, SWIFT 2.3, 2.0, XCode 7, 8, Agile Methodology, Photoshop, Sketch, HTML5, CSS, REST, JIRA. iOS app Developer GEICO - Chevy Chase, MD June 2014 to February 2016 Description: Geico is American auto insurance company, where you can access all your Geico policies at your finger prints. Geico Mobile App customized to user needs that allows to view your ID cards, pay and manage your bills, claims updates, upload images and file a report.  Geico allows to update coverage, update your contact information, make driver updates, Add a vehicle. Easily view your insurance cards in full screen. Handy features self-service glass repairs, Road side assistance and Accident assistance.  Responsibilities    • Worked extensively with Objective C and Swift  • Implemented CoreData for persistent storage of user data.  • Created models in MVC and development of delegates for updating model information.  • Created various views, table views, customized views and popovers.  • Redesigned several screens including default application landing screen as per updated wireframe.  • Created custom checklist and sharing through JSON libraries and connecting to SQ Lite database with the objective C interfaces.  • Created notifications to detect the autorotation in the customized sub views.  • Implemented NSOperationQueue and NSURLConnection to integrate with backend web services.  • Incorporated push notification features Using APNS.  • Used Photoshop and Invision for visual Design.  • Worked on MemoryManagement and Arc.  • Custom UI implemented with XIBs, and Manual Retain/Release memory management.  • Developed Navigation between using UI Navigation Controller, UI Gesture Recognizer, and UI Popover Controller.  • Took care of Code Review, Code Fixes and bug Fixes.  • Performed all tasks from UI design and implementation to writing code for various features.  • Used several methods for testing and tracking of applications like kiwi.  • Designed XSDs to define the xml structure of data exchanged between iphone and server.  • Managed data and memory management from streamlining code and using various debugging tests.  • Collaborated with team members using Agile Methodology and Trello.    Environment: IOS 8,7, XCode 7, 6, macOS, Objective-C, Swift 2.0, UIKit Framework, JSON, SQLite, Photoshop, Invision, Agile. IOS Developer ICICI - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2012 to June 2014 Description:iMobile Banking is most comprehensive and secure Mobile Banking Application offers banking services on your mobile. iMobile features that allow you to view and transact from all your accounts including loans, PPF, iWish, insurance, cards and deposits.  Check your bank balance, view and Email detailed statement and view passbook on your mobile. Get personalized offers on your mobile. iMobile allows to access and manage Life Insurance policies. You can quickly access and complete your transactions like mobile recharge or funds transfer.    Responsibilities:  • Worked extensively with huge code database  • Worked on table view controller and made customized table view cells according to the client.  • Completely responsible for new features added to the application.  • Worked with subversion to checkout and update the codebase changes.  • Worked on check deposit using EZ-Deposit.  • Designed the database and data model for application using SQLite.  • Implemented the code to perform the CRUD operations to the SQLite Database.  • Effectively managed the project code using GitHub.  • Demonstrated ability in handling the memory management. Profiling and performance analysis using X-code instruments.  • Developed Unit tests for testing specific functionality and logic.  • Formatted the data as per business rule to display User interface.  • Worked closely within a cross functional team of testers and developers  • Worked on Web Service calls, JSON was used in the project  • Worked with UIKit Framework for development and maintenance  • Added animation between UI Views for smooth transition and better user experience  • Used the same XIB to design for iPhone 5 and older iPhones by using Auto-layout  • Formatted the Data as per Business rule to display in UI  • Worked with SVN to checkout and update the codebase changes  • Followed Agile methodology throughout the project  • Created notifications to detect the auto rotation in the customized sub views.  • Worked extensively with Objective-C and Cocoa frame works.  • Integrated images and MapKit into the Application.  • Tested the application for memory leaks and relevant bugs, fixed the leaks and deployed on different iPhone firmware's to validate the application stability.    Environment: iOS 7.1, 6.1.6, Mac OS X 10.7, Objective-C, Xcode 5.1, 4.1, 4.3.3, 4.4.1, Cocoa Touch, Cocoa framework, Adobe CS5 Suite (Photoshop, Dreamweaver), MapKit, Core Location, AV Foundation, SVN, JSON, SQLite. Java Developer Open Text - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2009 to June 2012 DESCRPTION:  Tempo Slate is the mobile home for EIM, enabling users to create, capture, collaborate, and exchange information in a secure, unified, mobile application. Built using App Works technology, Slate brings together a range of EIM capabilities, from Info-Fusion powered search, to secure Fax and SMS, to Tempo Social. Users can write notes, take photos, scan images, and manage documents, leveraging repositories such as Content Server and Tempo Box. Slate also brings secure communication through Fax, SMS, and Tempo Social.    RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Involved in requirements gathering, system design, analysis, implementation and setting up the development environment.  • Involved in developing the prototypes for the UI application as per the feedbacks and discussions with the business Users.  • Involved in daily scrum meetings, sprint planning, sprint Demos using Agile Methodology.  • Involved in Design and development of Web pages using HTML, CSS, Java Script, JQuery  • Implemented J2EE Design patterns like DAO, Singleton and Factory.  • Designed and developed the application implementing SPRING MVC Architecture.  • Developed frontend of application using Boot Strap (Model, View, Controller).  • Spring JDBC framework with Jdbc Template class which will implement template class.  • Worked with SQL, PL/SQL Queries for SQL Developer  • Maintained application control with SVN.  • Log4j for logging and debugging.  • Developed java unit test cases using JUnit and TestNG.  • Used ANT to build and deploy the application on Tomcat.  • Used JIRA as a tracking tool to trace out bugs in project.    ENVIRONMENT: Java/J2ee, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Sql Developer, Oracle 11g, Apache TOMCAT, JDBC 4.0, Spring MVC, Spring JDBC, ANT, SVN, Eclipse, JIRA, JUnit, TestNG. Education Bachelor's Skills Firebase, Html5, Ios, Objective-c, Xcode Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Programming Languages Objective-C, SWIFT, C, C++, Java, J2EE  Web technologies XML, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, jQuery  Database MySQL, SQLite, Core Data, Realm, firebase, Parse  IOS Frameworks Cocoa Touch, Foundation, UIKit, Core Graphics, MapKit  IDE XCode 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, Eclipse, Net Beans  Design MS-office, Adobe Photoshop, Sketch, Invision.  Operating system Mac OS, Windows, Linux  Version Control Git, Svn  Other Tools/Software IBM MQ, IBM WebSphere, JUnit, JIRA