Co-Founder & Software Developer Co-Founder &amp; Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer( Java) Fairfield, IA Versatile Java and Python software developer with extensive education and 2+ years of hands-on experience in the development of web applications. Familiar with design patterns and life cycle methodologies which speed the development process, as well as technologies, libraries, and tools such as Java, Spring, Python, Django, and JavaScript. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Co-Founder & Software Developer CALTBAY LTD - Kigali, RW April 2016 to December 2018 Used Java and Spring framework to create back-end functions of an e-commerce platform.    Tasks Performed:  • Planned and managed project workflow.  • Developed back-end using Spring MVC.  • Taught programming in Java to other team members.    Achievements:  • Delivered working website, collaborating with team to deliver on time and within budget.  • Motivated and led team to learn and work concurrently.    Technologies Used: Java, J2EE, Spring MVC, JDBC, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, MySQL, Eclipse, Mac OS Java Developer & Game Developer CABVIER COMPANY - Chengdu, CN November 2017 to July 2018 Performed Python and JavaScript server-side programming, assisting in development of multiplayer Mahjong game app for both iOS and Android. Contributed to development of Java web apps.    Tasks Performed:  • Integrated app with third party login platforms like Wechat and QQ.  • Arranged game scenes to correspond with game flow.  • Coordinated with Java team to develop web services.    Achievements:  • Delivered working third-party integration with Mahjong game.    Technologies Used: Java, Python, JavaScript, Cocos2d-x, Python Sockets, MySQL, Cocos Creator, Navicat, IntelliJ, PyCharm, WebStorm, Windows Education Master's in Computer science Maharishi University of Management - Fairfield, IA November 2018 to June 2021 Bachelor's in software engineering Chengdu Neusoft University - Chengdu, CN September 2014 to June 2018 Skills java (4 years), Javascript (2 years), SQL (4 years), Spring (2 years), Python (1 year), hibernate (2 years), Django (1 year) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/davidmutabazi