Lead Programmer Analyst (Consultant) Lead Programmer Analyst (Consultant) Lead Programmer Analyst (Consultant) - Verizon Wireless, NJ NJ • Around 16 years of IT experience in software analysis, technical architecture and design, development, testing, support and documentation of software applications using web technologies, multi-tier service-oriented architecture by using Java, J2EE, Web/UI, Web Services, Middleware, Databases, SOA, OOAD, UML, Design Patterns, Open Source Technologies using Spring, Hibernate, Spring Boot and Play & Akka frameworks along with team mentoring.  • Working as Lead Programmer Analyst with Pronix Inc.  • Extensive work experience through all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) starting with project initiation, requirement gathering, requirement analysis, functional design, Object Oriented design, detail design, development and implementation of multi-tier enterprise, web based and distributed applications. 6+ years of experience on Agile SRUM process.  • Designing high level (SRS) and low-level (SDD) architecture and designing use cases along with milestones.  • Evaluate the technologies and appropriate products to meet the business goals and future needs including re-engineering of legacy systems to use new frameworks and technologies.  • Experience in working as Technical Lead with the development teams, system integration architects to review and obtain agreement for application architecture.  • Good working knowledge in servers such as Tomcat, JBoss Application Server, Weblogic, WebSphere -6/7 and IDE tools like Eclipse, RAD, NetBeans, SQLDeveloper.  • Experience in Test-Driven Development (TDD).  • Expertise in development and deployment of multi-tiered web based enterprise applications using J2EE technologies like Servlets, JSP, EJB, Spring MVC, Struts, Hibernate, JDBC, JNDI, JavaBeans and Web services (SOAP, HTTP, REST).  • Experience in Front End/UI Development using HTML, CSS, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX and JSON.  • Experience in Continuous builds integration through JENKINS with python tasks and maven.  • Hands-on experience on different kinds of databases Oracle, Mysql and Postgres including proficiency in writing SQL, PL/SQL, developed Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions and Package.  • Experience in deployment of SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) based Applications using Web Services including XSD, JAXB, JSON, XML, WSDL and SOAP (Developed Web Service host/client services using http REST).  • Strong in Object Oriented programming Concepts (OOPs) and various Design Patterns.  • Experience in working on various domain areas like Fixed Income and Mutual Funds data processing, Content Management, Banking Cards & Personal Taxation, Stock Exchange and Depository (Investor profile & fraud detection), Work recording and Asset Management , Biometrics applications.  • Ability to learn and adapt new technologies quickly.  • Worked in USA and UK for more than 10 years with in-depth knowledge of onshore-offshore model. Work Experience Lead Programmer Analyst (Consultant) Verizon Wireless, NJ December 2018 to Present Description:  Sales & Service Upper Funnel (Device and Accessories) - Verizon Wireless, being the largest communication technology companies in the world serves customer using large networks to provide breakthroughs in interactive entertainment, digital media, and the Internet of Things and broadband services. Verizon Wireless Sales & Services deals with various applications and various sub-programs viz- Upperfunnel, Lowerfunnel.., Upperfunnel is one of the programs which include dealing sales and providing services for all the digital devices and accessories for different digital flows of online/web, mobile app and third-party service for mobile, tablet, internet-devices (modems and routers). Upperfunnel applications provide a better user experience of buying and availing the services of device payment plans, retail price discounts, promotions with applications of different Grid walls for displaying devices, accessories with a overview of memory, color, make, model, inventory (stocks), customer reviews. PDP (Product Description Details) provides the details view of the product (devices/accessories) starting with memory, color, pricing options, promotion details, customer reviews, compatible accessories, compatible devices, different images for product review and product features.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on the Agile methodology for Upperfunnel Gridwall and PDP (Product Details page), Promotions, Cart Processing.  • Analyzing and understanding business requirements through story grooming and daily touch point calls.  • Perform Technical/Systems Impact analysis of the agile requirements. Design and documentation using Play and Akka Framework, Integration Patterns through Schema contracts for integration to different layers, providing mini Gridwalls, Product Details page customizations and external applications.  • Interacts across respective data groups/ stake holders (e.g. SAP team, backend, Billing systems, Device Manage groups, Elastic Search data teams) to discuss technical feasibilities and feedbacks on existing designs. Also interacts with business to evaluate technology options/requirements.  • Designing and coding using Play and Akka Framework modules including scala templates providing json embed data for frontend (rendering pages through React JS) and middle layer integration through service API's (REST Service interfaces through services contracts in form of XML and JSON schema) to oracle Endeca data through endeca queries and Elastic search servers, backend billing systems and cart data saving with JPA through Agile methodology and test driven development.  • Redis cache servers used for config files and also the page load json data through different maps.  • Ngnix used for serving static pages and index files along with image links in form of a basic http server feature.  • Developed independent microservice through Spring Boot for pulling local store stock details for express store project which connects to retail DB and pulls respective stock details for a particular location.  • Communicating the design details of specific stories to offshore team through daily Sync calls and getting the status updates on progress of assigned stories.  • Involved in migration of a small module of Endeca to fusion search services.  • Basic testing through manual and unit testing, debug processes and through Akka Testkit modules.  • Debugs and different issue finding through unix box logs access service and Kibana Elastic Search  • Working on Enterprise Java technology stack within in Play and Akka frameworks, using REST, Web Services, application frameworks Oracle ATG Endeca, JPA, Lucidworks search apis.  • Promoting code to GitLab and verifying the developed stories/fixes in UAT though auto build process and manual verifications.  • Support through Major Prod deployments through verification of different server clusters through logging and basic service available checks through test data.  • Designed and Developed backend table creation and querying with Oracle 10g/11g and accessing the data through JPA's apis.  • Code review (through SONAR Qube) participation and involved in code re-factoring of existing codes which was identified through the auto build process of JENKINS(CI).  • Supporting Prod issues with various debugging and analysis mechanisms to resolve customer impact issues.    Environment: Play and Akka Framework, Spring, Spring Boot, JPA, OOAD, Design Patterns, Java 1.8, Web Services (REST, SOAP), JSP, Java Script, CSS, HTML, React JS, Oracle 10g/11g/12c, SQL, PL/SQL, Akka Testkit framework, Oracle ATG Endeca, LucidWorks Elastic search, Intellij IDEA, Eclipse,GitLab repository, JSON editor through eclipse and intellij plugins, SoapUI Tester, Genkins, Kibana Elastic Search, Logging console, VIP Admin tool for Order analysis, Postman SOAP Tester, JIRA Nginx(serving Basic static pages, images), Redis cache, Kafka for website activity tracking. Lead Programmer Analyst (Consultant) Verizon Wireless, NJ February 2017 to November 2018 Description:  Trade-in (Device) - Verizon Wireless, being the largest communication technology companies in the world serves customer using large networks to provide breakthroughs in interactive entertainment, digital media, and the Internet of Things and broadband services. Verizon Wireless Point of Sale with Trade-in is one of the areas dealing with all of device and services sales including multi device buys and trade-in of customer devices (Smartphone, Smartwatch, tablet and SIM based devices e.g. tracking devices). Services include different type buy promotions with monthly pay options along with trade-in promotions to maximize sales. Trade-in process includes customer trading in their old devices for taking advantage of new device buys. The trade-in devices goes through cleaner process to be added to inventory for future sales across retail and online.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on the Agile methodology for Trade-in Process, Promotions, Refund & Exchanges, device shipping and different credit methods (e.g. Cards, Account credit, PayPal, Monthly Credits (SPO) and Giftcards.  • Analyzing and understanding business requirements through daily touch point calls.  • Perform Technical/Systems Impact analysis of the agile requirements. Design and documentation using Framework (ATG), Design Patterns, Integration Patterns through Schema contracts for integration to different layers.  • Interacts across respective data groups/ stake holders (e.g. SAP team, backend, Billing systems, Device Manage groups) to discuss technical feasibilities and feedbacks on existing designs. Also interacts with business to evaluate technology options/requirements.  • Designing and coding using oracle ATG, frontend layers(jQuery, Javascripts, Droplets, Frontend MVC) with middle layer integration through service API's (REST Service interfaces through services contracts in form of XML and JSON schema) which interact with backend servers through MQ's (Message Queues) through Agile methodology and test driven development.  • Communicating the design details of specific stories to offshore team through daily Sync calls and getting the status updates on progress of assigned stories.  • Migration of Middle layer (VIP) to Microservices through Spring boot. Associated with development of basic service of checking device status details and registering the same to registry. Testing the same through feign clients.  • Basic testing through manual and unit testing, debug processes and through JUnit test cases.  • Debugs and different issue finding through logging console and Kibana Elastic Search  • Working on Enterprise Java technology stack and using SOAP, Web Services, application frameworks Spring, ATG, JPA, JUnit, ReactJS.  • Monitoring program execution for expected performance using logging console and VIP Admin console; reporting the performance results with analysis and recommendations.  • Promoting code to GIT and verifying the developed stories/fixes in UAT though auto build process.  • Support through Major Prod deployments through verification of different server clusters through logging and basic service available checks.  • Designed and Developed backend table creation and querying, writing views using Oracle 10g/11g optimizing the same through Explain plan for performance tuning.  • Configuring and building a cron job (standalone java program) for monitoring the device process failures.  • Code review (through SONAR Qube) participation and involved in code re-factoring of existing codes which was identified through the auto build process of JENKINS(CI).  • Supporting Prod issues with various debugging and analysis mechanisms to resolve customer impact issues.    Environment: OOAD, Design Patterns, Java 1.7, JEE 7.0, Web Services (REST, SOAP), React JS, Java Script, CSS, HTML, Oracle 10g/11g/12c, SQL, PL/SQL, JUnit Testing framework, Weblogic Server 12C, Spring Boot, Sprint boot embedded Tomcat , Oracle ATG Retail framework, VIP framework, SONAR code-review tool, Eclipse, STS( Spring Tool Suite), Accurev Code Repo, GIT repository, Altova XML Spy, SoapUI Tester, Genkins, Apache Solr, Kibana Elastic Search, Logging console, VIP Admin tool for Order analysis, Postman SOAP Tester, JIRA. Senior Developer Bloomberg LLP April 2011 to January 2017 Consultant - TCS Ltd).  Description:  Fixed Income (Loans, Cast, Equity, Mortgages and PPM) - Bloomberg, being a world leader in the financial market maintains a vibrant group of analysts across the globe for market analysis. In order to achieve their task they require various tools through which they can capture data & analyze them more easily & accurately. These tools or applications have to be very accurate, fast, easy to use & generic so that they could be used all over the globe by thousands of analysts as per the agile market needs. Loans Cast, Mortgages and PPM are few of the applications which acquires data from different sources of email, messaging queues, ftps and variety of data sources and presents the semi raw data after going through pre-process checks and business rules to analysts for analysis.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on the Agile SCRUM methodology for CAST (Company Analysis), LOANs, PPM Equity projects on different process stages from sprint pre-planning to retro and review.  • Perform Technical/Systems Impact analysis of the scrum requirements. Design and documentation using OOAD, Design Patterns, Integration Patterns through Schema contracts for integration to different layers.  • Interacts across respective data groups/ stake holders to provide technical guidance and feedbacks on existing designs. Also interacts with customer to evaluate technology options/requirements.  • Design, document, and implement application code using Java/J2EE technologies (core Java, Servlets and JSP), Web Services (through BAS routers), interfaces though a MVC based configurational framework.  • Designed and developed http based REST Services to be consumed across different applications, Enhancement to existing Container Serves for data acquisition through event listeners and workflow managed applications. Integration with .NET based clients and JavaScript based user interfaces through services contracts in form of XML and JSON schema.  • Created Logical and Physical DB design models using E/R Diagrams.  • Designed and developed Restful service for Business Rule Engine using XML, XSD and Host/Host services.  • Develop the new change requests and enhancements as per business process as well as maintain the existing code of the systems using core Java / J2EE, JDBC , Blade(Adaptor, Container) and Glodas(MVC) frameworks and Agile methodologies.  • Design and Development of Front End/UI Layer using HTML, Java Script which is required for auto build and test processes before exposing the interface for different user interfaces.  • Designed and Developed backend using Oracle 10g/11g and coded SQL and PL/SQL Scripts for data layer through Tables, Functions, triggers, Procedures optimizing the same through Explain plan for performance tuning.  • Configuring and building a cron based java tool for report generation for historical and in-time data.  • Code review (through Phabricator) participation and involved in code re-factoring of existing legacy system.  • Enhanced the adaptor framework for pre-processor, processor and postprocessors of data acquisition.  • Wrote Python scripts for auto build and test through JENKINS integration. Working on Mavens integration of the existing build process to move to JENKINS continuous build process.  • Storing common company data to Hadoop using bas services through JSON based Schema.  • Used Java Script for client side validations and JQuery for DOM manipulations  • Implemented some of the complex changes in speed to Market approach.  • Implemented DAO classes and methods to store the amounts of data into a database.    Environment: OOAD, SOA, Design Patterns, Java 1.6, JEE 5.0, Web Services (REST Jersey, SOAP), JSP, Java Script, CSS, HTML, JQuery, Oracle 10g/11g/12c, SQL, PL/SQL, Postgres, JUnit Testing framework, JBoss, Tomcat , Blade Web framework, Blade-adaptor framework, PMD and Phabricator code-review tool Eclipse, CVS, GIT repository, Altova XML Spy, Soap Tester, Genkins, Apache Solr, Hadoop, Memcached, JIRA. Technical Lead BARC - IN February 2010 to February 2011 Consultant from TCS-CMC LTD).  Description:  AAIIS (Accounts Integrated Information System and Material Management System) is a integrated is an integrated enterprise web enable solution for BARC. The system AAIIS covers the core functions of Accounts, Administration and Stores. Common functions are related HR of activities for instance Administration, Accounts, Purchases and supplies, Fleet Management. Specialized functions are related to payroll, security, Traffic. Having interfaces for legacy systems and providing improved process workflows.    Responsibilities:  • Lead the development team for overall delivery of the project throughout the SDLC process.  • Designed UML diagrams (Class diagrams and Sequence diagrams) to create logical and implementation model and their flow to develop the code.  • Arrange and conduct meetings with clients for gathering new business requirements and transfer the same into technical documents  • Responsible for all the Use Case review the designs with Client partners and with in Technical groups.  • Implemented several design patterns including factory pattern, data access pattern, business delegate pattern and singletons.  • Designed and Developed web application using JSPs, custom tag libraries, DAO classes.  • Used Java Script for client side validations and JQuery for DOM manipulations.  • Created POJO classes, Spring configuration files to use dependency injection.  • Implemented Database Transactions Hibernate and Spring framework with Postgres as backend database.  • Used JBoss Application Server and STS to develop the application  • Involved in development, code review, unit testing of the application.    Environment: UML, Design Patterns, JAVA, J2EE, Spring MVC, XML parsing using JAXB, JSP, Ajax and JQuery for front end development, JUnit for Unit testing, JBoss App server, Postgres , Spring Roo, UNIX, IReports CVS, Hibernate Reverse Engineering Tool. Project Lead Maharashtra Police - Mumbai, Maharashtra January 2009 to January 2010 Consultant from TCS-CMC LTD).  Description:  eCOPS (e-Computerized Operation for Police Services) eCOPS is an integrated enterprise web enable solution for Police department. The system ecops covers the core functions of Police. Common functions are related ministerial nature of activities for instance Administration, Accounts, Purchases and supplies, Fleet Management. Specialized functions are related to Law and order for instance Crime, Preventions and control, Intelligence, bandobust, VIP security, Traffic.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in re-engineering of legacy systems with newer technology stack.  • Involved in design and development of accounts Module long with Budget, Fresh budget requirements, finance commission (budget sanction, budget distribution).  • Arrange and conduct meetings with clients for gathering new business requirements and transfer the same into technical documents.  • Developed account modules using MVC based CMC web framework involving , Servlets, JSP, custom tags libraries, JavaScript's.  • Optimizing queries to handle large data in a browser based page including Offline Capability.  • Involved in developing an Password encryption module for encrypting various user role passwords through a customized (crypto Cipher) and base64 based encryption.  • Worked on various Postgres sql stored procedures and functions along with query optimization.  • Included various java design patterns with development process.  • Worked on customized log4j properties.    Environment: JAVA, J2EE(Servlets, JSP, EJB), XML parsing using JAXB, CMC WebFramework, Apache Tomcat Server, Base64 and crypto (Encrypt & Decrypt) , Postgres, IReports, Apache POI , Eclipse, ClearCase for maintaining version control, log4j framework for logging, JUnit for Unit testing. Developer Citi Cards, FL March 2006 to January 2009 Consultant- TCS Ltd).  Description:  Sawgrass, CitiCards currently uses International Bankcard System (IBS) for their core card processing. They have different set of applications to cater the business needs. Sawgrass is the Citi Cards Customer Delivery Framework - a common desktop that will enable any Call Centre or Web Support associate to handle a myriad of Card-related services in one session, with one associate. Application will provide a single platform for all customer queries to be processed, resolved, reviewed and stored for future analysis making the customer handling business model cost effect and process time reduction.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in designing and developing and implementation of Authorizations of Transactions, Updating Contact Information and Customers Travel Plans functionality of cards using Chordiant CRM tool and oracle.  • Design of Response and Request mappers for JMO's for interaction with MainFrame using Tibco interface.  • Used Chordinat as JAVA, J2EE based CRM tool for developing of Authorizations of Transactions, updating Contact Information modules through Chordiant BPM flow and Chordiant Rules engine.  • Designed and developed user interfaces through ADF faces and Trinidad JSF.  • Designed different user requirements through Chordiant Rules engine (similar to a UM tool) and EDM.  • Used Hammurapi tool for code review.  • Got recognition from client for putting extra effort to deliver the usecases to meet the time-deadline.  • Involved in report generation tool through a customized tool using Chordiant Rules engines.    Environment: JAVA, Chordiant 6.2, ADF faces, Trinidad JSF, Chordiant Business Process Flow, Rational Rose, Oracle, Clear Case, Clear Quest, Tibco (as an interface), MainFrame, RAD (Rational Application Developer) and SQL Developer. WebSphere App server , IBM RAD for application development and testing,log4j framework for logging, Hammurapi, JUnit for Unit testing. Developer UK Ministry of Defense - UK April 2005 to February 2006 Consultant - CMC Ltd).  Description:  WRAM (Work Recording and Asset Management) system records all the engineering work conducted on an aircraft and manages the state and location of the aircraft and all attached parts(structure).WRAM provides Integrated Project Teams (IPTs) to monitor the effectiveness of equipment in-service support and maintenance policies, equipment performance and life cycle costing. The configuration management and asset status board allows the commander to know the location, serviceability and primary role configuration of all his aircraft.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in arrange and conduct teleconferencing with clients for new business requirements and transfer the same in the form Usecases, and preparing details to low level design(LDL) documents.  • Development of Business, Role, Component Access components using BORLAND TOGETHER Tool which will match the Usecases and based on configured script it will generate CRUD objects which can be accessed through DAO objects.  • Development related activities using Jaffa Framework a MVC based java framework.  • Involved in Implementation of test Scenario and test Case based on HttpUnit Testcases.  • Automating the code review process by using the tool ASSENT(TCS code review tool) to study and document the existing system.  • Got Merit Reward from client for excellent performance in the project for before time deliveries.  • Actively involved in the installation and configuration of Apache Tomcat server integrating with JAFFA frameworks.    Environment: JAVA, J2EE, JAFFA (Based on Struts MVC Framework), JSP, Servlets, JBoss Server - 4.1, MySql, Borland Together, Bugzilla 2.2, Sun one studio Net beans, log4j framework for logging, JUnit for Unit testing. Java Developer National Security Depository Limited August 2004 to March 2005 CMC Ltd.  Description:  MAPIN-Market Participant and Investor software is developed using MVC Architecture that will identify user basically investors in the stock market, based on the biometric information (i.e. fingerprint) and personal details like name, date of Birth and other basic details. This software will generate unique identification number for each investor that will be used to establish the identity of members in the transactions with the Organization helping Criminality and Fraud Detection by duplication identification.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in interaction with clients through various meeting and discussion for gathering new requirements and transfer the same in to design documents.  • Development of User management module, role and task assigning.  • Development related activities using MVC Architecture ( Java, JSP and Servlets).  • Involved in development of the Web interface for POS (Point of Service) for capturing the bio and personal details.  • Involved in implementation of test Scenario and test Case based  • Involved in Object oriented designs.  • Developing application using Eclipse.  • Designing and development of data model along with test cases.    Environment: JAVA, JSP, Java Servlets, Oracle 9i, Visual Basic(Desktop Application to capture Finger print data), Apache (HTTP Server), JBoss-Tomcat 3.2.1 and PKI(public Key Interface) technology, Clear Case. Toad, CMC FACTS(Fingerprint Analysis and Criminal Tracing System), Eclipse for application development and testing. Java Developer Bank of Baroda - Mumbai, Maharashtra March 2003 to December 2004 Description:  IRGT(Integrated Report Generation Tool) - is a Online Credit Card Analysis known as Interactive Report Generation Tool developed using MVC Architecture for Bank of Baroda in which the user basically the banking analyst can make thorough analysis of the Credit Cards Distributions (geographically, Sector wise), Risky users, Profitability and Contribution, Funds blocked, Funds returned, Rating Analysis and Overall business view. Thus the analyst views the bad users and good users report and decide how much the credit limit would be varied.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in design and development of the scheduling of mails module through Javamail and SMTP.  • Involved in design and development of regional customer consumption of daily spending reports using java, swing and JCharts.  • Involved in implementation of manual test cases.    Environment: JAVA, Java Applets, Swing, Javamail, JCharts, Servlets, JSP, EJB, XML. CVS, Eclipse, MySql, Weblogic, Sun One NetBeans and manual unit testing. Java Developer Oranous, Virginia January 2004 to July 2004 Description:  QuickTaxOnline is a web application developed for Oranous, Virginia, USA. This web Application provides details regarding filing of tax returns for the citizens of USA. This site gives latest information about the tax laws of the country. It registers a user by receiving their personal details (i.e. Name, Address, Social Security Number, employment details etc) .It receives income data, deduction details, spouse details, dependant details, flood or any type of natural hazards details (if any). Finally according to the tax laws it calculates the tax returns for the particular.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in transferring the requirements, documents received from client into design documents.  • Developed of Deduction Module.  • Developed the modules using java, JSP Servlets, and JavaScripts.  • Involved in development of the Web interface for capturing the deduction details data.  • Involved in implementation of test Scenario and test Case based on manual test cases.  • Developing application using Sun-one NetBeans.    Environment: JAVA, Java, JSP, Servlet, HTML, Java Script, Mysql, Tomcat 3.2.1, CVS, Sun One NetBeans and manual testing. Java Developer MP Govt - IN July 2002 to February 2003 Description:  EGovernance- School and Mass Education - is a multilingual e-governance online application developed for the Education department of M.P(India). This project is for storing data on Students and Teachers profiles of a school and their day to day activities like attendance, course completed etc, UI developed using swing and java. The executives of the department can view various reports being generated in graphical form like bar, pie, line charts of the different blocks and schools etc. Users can do various activities like inserting, updating, deleting data through the swing UI, spouse details, dependant details, flood or any type of natural hazards details (if any).    Responsibilities:  • Involved School data capture Module. Testing of the same module for proper functionality.  • Development of business components for capturing student and teacher data using java, Swing, JSP, Servlets.  • Developed Swing screens along with writing sql queries for inserting and updating data  • Done Manual test and also unit test    Environment: JAVA, Java Swing, XML, JSP, Servlets, Tomcat Web server, Net Beans, MySql, Sun One NetBeans and unit testing. Education Bachelor's Skills BEA, ECLIPSE, EJB, J2EE, JAVA, Java J2Ee, Spring, Hibernate Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Technical Skills:    Operating Systems MS Windows 9x/ NT / 2000/7/10, UNIX, LINUX and Sun Solaris  Programming Languages Java, Python, Oralce PL/SQL, Scala.  Database Systems Oracle 9i/10g/11g/12c, MySQL 4 and Postgres 9.0 Memcached, Redis Cache.  Java Technologies J2EE, JSP 2.0, Servlets 2.4, EJB 3.0, JNDI, JDBC 2.1, JSF, SOA, Web Services (HTTP), Javamail.  Scripting Languages HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, XSD, JSON, JQuery, XSLT, Java Script, CSS 3.0, Taglibs, AJAX  Framework  Log4J, JUnit, ADF Faces, Trinidad faces, JAFFA ( Java Framework For All), Hibernate, Struts, Spring MVC, Spring ORM, Spring DAO, REST and Hadoop, AngularJS, Spring Boot, Play & Akka.    Server Architectures  JBoss Application Server 4.1, IBM Websphere 6.0, BEA Web logic 9, Oracle Weblogic 12C, Apache and Jakarta Tomcat, Container services, REST Services, Apache Solr.  Oracle ATG catalogue, Oracle Endeca.  Nginx (serving Basic static pages, index files and images)    CRM Chordiant, Chordiant Business Process flow  Development Tools (IDE)  Eclipse, STS (Spring Suite Tool), RAD, Oracle JDeveloper, Borland IDE, TOAD, SQLDeveloper, Net Beans (Sun one Studio), Web Logic. PG Admin for Postgres and Adobe Dreamweaver, Altova XML Spy, SOAPUI tester, postman SOAP tester, Kibana Elastic Search. LucidWorks Elastic search, Intellij IDEA.    Methodologies/Modelling and Design Agile SCRUM, SDLC, UML, Rational Rose, GOF Patterns, J2EE Design Patterns.  Configuration Mgmt. Tools Visual Source safe, Tortoise SVN, Rational ClearCase, CVS, Accurev and GIT, One Stash, Gitlab.  Other Tools Ant, Maven, JIRA, Bugzilla, Jenkins, and Phabricator code review, SONAR Qube code review, PMD code review.  Testing Tools HP QTP.