AWS Solutions Architect AWS Solutions Architect AWS Solutions Architect Tampa, FL Results-oriented and highly motivated with the ability to leverage intense training and experience while excelling in an (Amazon Web Services) AWS Solution Architect role.  ? Possess technical depth and over three years of experience in planning, designing, implementing, and maintaining AWS architecture across networks, storage, operating systems, databases, and Hadoop.  ? Proven record of delivering results in application development, DevOps, and AWS solutions architecture, interfacing directly with customers, with an overall 15+ years of experience.   ? Outstanding interpersonal and communications skills, gathering requirements and collaborating with stakeholders and peers to develop and deploy value-added solutions.  ? Proactively research and identify emerging technologies to establish secure, robust architecture and infrastructure.  ? Talent for quickly learning new information, procedures, and technologies.    Certifications  • AWS Certified Solutions Architect – Professional. (2019)  • AWS Certified Solutions Architect – Associate  • Sun Certified Programmer for Java 2 Platform Work Experience AWS Solutions Architect VERIZON June 2016 to June 2019 Served as AWS Solutions Architect and author of DevOps practices for rearchitecting, and migrating several monolithic applications to AWS Cloud using the 12factor app.  * Migrated on-premise infrastructure to the AWS Cloud, and designed, deployed, and automated the entire AWS infrastructure as code using Cloud Formation templates.  * Performed development activities for DevOps practices for the project, including continuous integration, delivery, testing, and monitoring.  * Designed microservices using spring boot and NodeJS and deployed using Docker and ECS EC2.  * Migrated the DB2 database to AWS Aurora Postgres using SCT and DMS.  * Implemented Ansible playbooks to create custom AMI and created pipelines using Jenkins for CI/CD  * Provisioned AWS resources like IAM, EC2, ELB, NLB, ECS, EBS, AMI, SQS, SNS, Lambda, S3 buckets, and all other operational tasks; wrote playbooks for task automation, and established the load balancer, auto-scaling group, and launch configuration for micro services. VERIZON - Tampa, FL April 2007 to June 2019 Sr. Java Technical Lead VERIZON October 2012 to May 2016 Interfaced with clients to design and develop a highly customized ad decision system, Business Information Translation System (BITS), to provide advertising sales insight into the variables that drive advertising revenue. Gathered requirements from business partners, coordinated with cross-functional teams to obtain data and resolve any technical\functional issues, and designed and architected the system for the implementation.  * Used J2EE front-end design patterns in implementing Struts (Model 2 Architecture) and executed web services using JAX-WS (SOAP).  * Designed and Developed dashboards using jQuery, jQPlot, JSON and graphs, and wrote shell scripts for batch processing.  * Deployed data controls, access controls, and monitoring controls for the application and data at rest.  * Employed AES encryption to transmit the Ad revenue\transaction data between partners. Rectified OWASP Top 10 Security Risks in the application. Java Developer VERIZON April 2007 to September 2011 Responsible for end-to-end development of the Video Content Operations System (VCOS).  * Used J2EE front-end design patterns in implementing Struts (Model 2 Architecture), and developed and implemented enhancements to web-based applications, and provided development estimates outlining business and technical risks.  * Implemented the following J2EE Patterns: Front Controller, Session Façade, Data Access Object, Business Delegate, and View Helper. Designed and implemented web services using JAX-WS (SOAP).  * Participated in Low-Level System and Component Design (Sequence diagram, Class diagram, Activity diagram, Component diagram) using UML/Rational Rose. Involved in Use case Reviews, Design Reviews, and Code Reviews.  * Maintained multiple environments with full responsibility for all software layers (OS/Database/Applications), mentoring project team members, and supporting other IT department teammates.  * Monitored applications and performed in-depth analysis of performance at all levels, including transactional, middleware, and hardware. Programmer Analyst COMPUTER ASSOCIATES - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2004 to December 2006 Unicenter Database Command Center was a new web-enabled cross-platform database management portal that centralized the management of databases. Involved in Use Case Reviews, Design Reviews, and Code Reviews. Participated in the design of Oracle and DB2 UDB Fast unload.  * Responsible for configuring and developing the Views using Tiles framework with JSPs and Custom tags.  * Developed objects for Oracle, DB2 databases. Software Engineer POLARIS SOFTWARE LAB LTD - Chennai, Tamil Nadu April 2000 to March 2004 Education Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics and Communications in Electronics and Communications Madras University - Chennai, Tamil Nadu Skills Object-oriented, Oop, System development, Life cycle, Ood, Kanban, Jquery, Javascript, Linux, HTML, XML Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/raja-anche-16300823 Additional Information Results-oriented and highly motivated with the ability to leverage intense training and experience while excelling in an (Amazon Web Services) AWS Solution Architect role.  * Possess technical depth and over three years of experience in planning, designing, implementing, and maintaining AWS architecture across networks, storage, operating systems, databases, and Hadoop.  * Proven record of delivering results in application development, DevOps, and AWS solutions architecture, interfacing directly with customers, with an overall 15+ years of experience.  * Outstanding interpersonal and communications skills, gathering requirements and collaborating with stakeholders and peers to develop and deploy value-added solutions.  * Proactively research and identify emerging technologies to establish secure, robust architecture and infrastructure.  * Talent for quickly learning new information, procedures, and technologies.    Core Technologies  Environments: Unix, Sun Solaris, Centos, RedHat and Windows NT/2000/XP, AWS Cloud  Languages: Java, C++, Python, Angular, NodeJS, Shell Scripting, Ansible, java script  Databases: Postgres, DB2, Oracle, MySQL, Hadoop  Frameworks: Struts, Spring, Spring boot, Hibernate, Spring JDBC, Spring MVC, JPA  Tools: Eclipse, Visual Studio Code, Git, Docker, Kubernetes, WebLogic, Tomcat, Jenkins, Jira, Maven, Splunk, Bash    Methodologies: Agile (Scrum and Kanban), Waterfall, System Development Life Cycle, Object-Oriented Development & Programming (OOD & OOP)