Senior Specialist Engineer Senior Specialist Engineer Senior Specialist Engineer - Globallogic Charlotte, NC Around 14 years of experience in IT with active involvement in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle. Worked actively in Requirements Analysis, Design, Coding, Testing, Deployment, Maintenance, Proof of concept and production support.  • Expertise in designing, developing and deploying applications using Core Java, J2EE (Servlet, JSP, EJB, JMS, XML, JAXB), Spring, Spring-Boot, Hibernate, Groovy, Grails, AJAX, SOAP/REST Web-Services, JSON, GWT, JQuery, Struts, Angular, React, Design Patterns, PL/SQL.  • Experience in application development and automated deployment using Ant, Maven and Gradle.  • Experience in configuring the Teamcity Continuous Integration (CI) and Oracle Service Bus (OSB) enterprise service bus tools.  • Expertise in configuring web/app servers such as Apache Web Server, Tomcat, JBOSS, Glassfish, Web Logic on Windows and UNIX environment.  • Strong experience in analysis and design using Software Engineering / SDLC, UML and MVC based frameworks like Struts and Spring.  • Experience in SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle) using both Agile and Waterfall methodology.  • Experience in databases like Oracle, MySQL, Postgres, MongoDB and PLSQL programming. Widely used stored procedures, functions, views and triggers.  • Experience in configuring queues and topics in Java messaging services (JMS) and Oracle AQ's.  • Expertise in writing test-driven applications using JUnit.  • Strong communication (written & verbal), presentation, and training skills.  • Skilled in project management, multi-tasking and prioritizing competing deadlines.  • Experience in database replication & tuning, apache load balancing, server replications using terracotta and JVM performance tuning.  • Experience in performance troubleshooting using YourKit, JProfiler and Dynatrace APM tools.  • Experience in various software developments IDE's like Eclipse, My Eclipse, NetBeans.  • Experience of Mercurial, GIT, SVN and CVS Version Control systems.    Environments Worked:  Languages: Java, Java Script, XML, Groovy.  Frameworks: Struts, Spring Boot, Spring-Integration, Grails, Hibernate, Servlet/JSP, JAXB, SOAP/REST, JSON, GWT, JQuery, Angular, React, Mule, JUnit. Work Experience Senior Specialist Engineer Windstream - Charlotte, NC July 2013 to Present Description: Windstream Online (WOL) is the online portal used by clients to administer and manage their different products and services. Customer can register/unregister their services, administer their VOIP features, products, can create/view trouble tickets, manage orders, manage users and contacts and can register for system outage notifications. Portal integrates with all the different billing and provisioning systems used by all the acquired companies and provides common UI for clients to manage their products/services across different billing systems. It has external and internal user feature where internal users can emulate external users.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Design, Development and Deployment of the application.  • Lead a team to develop the road map for one business unit.  • Created common outage notification system to send notifications to customers.  • Involved in developing different pages and custom widgets using GWT.  • Involved in creating procedures and scripts for managing Oracle AQ's.  • Involved in coordination with offshore team to help them in understanding business requirements and client processes.  • Involved in understanding business requirements with client Business Analyst and Business users.  • Provided technical guidance and resolved the road blocks of the team.    Environments: Core Java, GWT, JQuery, Spring, Struts, SOAP/REST Web Services, Ant & Maven, JBoss, Tomcat, Apache Web Server, Teamcity, Dynatrace, Tealeaf, Fisheye and Oracle Service Bus Specialist Engineer Global Logic India Pvt. Ltd November 2012 to June 2013 Description: RAVPN project is for re-architecting, re-design and fresh development of a provisioning application for Remote Access VPN product. The existing application was developed using JSF, Servlet/JSP and was supported only on IE browser. Due to the requirement for support of all browsers and new enhancements; redesign and development of this application was required. We converted the existing application from JSF to GWT to support all browsers and use spring for dependency management.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in migration of application from JSF to GWT.  • Involved in converting the service mix module into spring based module.  • Involved in upgrading the complete technology stack e.g. java, hibernate, MySQL and tomcat.  • Involved in implementation of new features e.g. bulk upload, database UI management.  • Involved in adding the MySQL replication and hibernate ehcache and web session replication using terracotta.  Environments: GWT, Spring, Hibernate, Core Java, groovy, grails, Apache Web Server, Terracotta, SOAP Web Services and Maven Specialist Engineer Global Logic India Pvt. Ltd July 2012 to October 2012 Description: Voice Provisioning Cartridge application is responsible for adding/deleting DID's, Bmember's and PRI's. The Voice Provisioning Cartridge application externalize the OSM processing using Groovy script support, so that run time changes can be done in processing logic.    Responsibilities  • Involved in Design, Development of the application.  • Created OSM process, order, automation plugins and manual/automated tasks.  • Added spring and groovy script support.  • Created custom automator's by extending the OSM automator's.  Environments: Oracle OSM 7.0.1, Groovy, Spring, Core Java, Broad Works. Technical Lead Global Logic India Pvt. Ltd July 2011 to June 2012 Description: Servlet Scripting Framework or SSF plugin (for Grails) enables groovy scripts to be exposed as web-services. Addition of new scripts, updating of existing ones or deleting scripts does not require server restarts. It achieves all this by following the paradigm of "Convention over configuration". Any Grails web-application that requires the capability of dynamically exposing scripts as web-services can install this plugin to get this capability.    Responsibilities:  • Created proxy web service wrapper application module and exposed API as web services.  • Involved in Design, Development of the plugin.  • Created custom groovy class loader to load external artifacts e.g. groovy scripts, DTO's.  • Created individual holder objects for scripts to hold the scripts data and marshaller's for that script DTO's  • Applied AST transformations to add getter methods in the groovy scripts for pre-defined properties, and adding imports in scripts.  • Created controller and added Url mappings to expose scripts as web services where ?xsd gives xsd for the script input, output DTO's.  • Handled grails war generation events for handling the grails inline plugin war generation issue.  Environments: Grails, Groovy, spring, Core Java Technical Lead Global Logic India Pvt. Ltd May 2009 to June 2011 Description: BMW (BroadWorks Migration Widget) migration tool is responsible for migrating independent BroadWorks platforms into a single platform. Application supports the mass migration of BroadWorks customers: inter- and intra-platform. Application also assists in the gathering, manipulation and provisioning of the data. Application provides the tree UI to help users to migrate from left tree (source enterprises) to right tree (target enterprises) using DND (Drag and Drop) operations. Application also provides option to configure VOIP services.    Responsibilities  • Involved in Design, Development of the application.  • Involved in creating grails application for managing the BroadWorks migration project creation, updating and other manipulation tasks. Used grails-ui plugin for accordian, dialog box and other ui elements.  • Created tree structure page using ext-GWT for migrating the enterprises from source tree to target tree using drag and drop functionality. Created grid to display properties of individual tree elements.  • Migrated the external ext-GWT application into grails application to make single UI application.  • Created the standalone spring based OCI client using apache mina api, for executing the OCI BroadWorks requests.  • Involved in creating standalone spring based BMW engine for managing the business processing.  • Created domain objects using GORM and used them outside grails in the BMW Engine spring application.  • Used groovy xml slurpur, xml parser and markup builder for xml processing.  • Used groovy Category and other meta programming features  Environments: Broad Works, Ext-GWT, GWT, Groovy, Grails, Spring, Core Java, Hibernate and Maven. Senior Developer Global Logic India Pvt. Ltd May 2008 to April 2009 Description: Nevats is the system responsible for collecting CDR's from various network elements and provides reporting capability. It contains 3 applications, one is for collecting & storing CDR's from various network elements second is for generating reports and third provides the UI for reports management. These CDR's are correlated on the fly at the time of report generation. Correlation is required because no single network element provides a complete picture of the call as it traverses the network. User has been provided query builder UI to help him in generating queries without concerns of sql syntax.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Design, Development of the application.  • Created user interface for sql query generation using jQuery drag and drop feature.  • Created standalone Nevats ETL module to extract, load and transform data from network elements files using spring integration framework.  • Involved in creating Report Engine module using spring framework. Used drools rule engine to apply business rules for generating correlated data record.  • Involved in creating Birt reports for different element display.  Environments: Core Java, Hibernate, Spring, Spring-Integration, Groovy, Grails, jQuery and Maven. Senior Developer Global Logic India Pvt. Ltd May 2007 to April 2008 Description: Call Record Processing System (CARP) is the system responsible for collecting and then correlating CDR's from various network elements. These correlated CDR's are finally available to various systems like the billing system. Correlation is required because no single network element provides a complete picture of the call as it traverses the network.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Design, Development of the application.  • Created file pollars and normalizers for all 3 network elements using apache service mix framework.  • Implemented time boundary feature to manage processing of all network elements files parallelly, using JMS messaging.  • Involved in BUG fixing and module enhancement as per the Client requirement  Environments: Core Java, Hibernate, Spring, Service-Mix, Pg-Pool-II Java/J2EE Developer Infogain, India Pvt. Ltd September 2005 to April 2007 Description: CLAR Application (Common Login, Authentication and Registration) is a web based application to collect customer and Product registration data which enables HP to have a 360-degree view of a Customer. CLAR provides single sign-on and logging in for all affiliated applications. It acts as a central hub for customer profile information for all the affiliated applications.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Debugging, Troubleshooting the Applications.  • Involved in providing Level-3 production support for the applications.  • Involved in BUG fixing and module enhancement as per the CR/ IA docs.  • Involved in test case writing.  • Involved in Peer Review/Testing [Functional, Regression and Sanity Testing].  Environments: Java/J2EE (Servlets, JSP), XML, XSLT Java/J2EE Developer Infogain, India Pvt. Ltd January 2005 to August 2005 Description: Reference Data covers loading of Product Data into ICRD (Central HP Database) through SQL scripts and running of Informatica maps to send this Data from Oracle to different Regional Databases.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in creation and execution of sql scripts for inserting, deleting and updating new products into central database.  • Involved in CR execution/validation and running of Informatica Maps.  • Involved in providing Level-3 production support for the applications.  • Knowledge acquisition of the system and Knowledge Transfer with the team members.  • Coordination among Offshore Team and Onsite coordinator.    Environment: Oracle 9i/Informatica, Toad Education Masters Panjab University Chandigarh - Chandigarh, Chandigarh Skills APACHE (8 years), ORACLE (5 years), TOMCAT (5 years), WEB SERVER (5 years), JBOSS (4 years), Java (10+ years), J2EE (10+ years), Spring (7 years), Hibernate (4 years), Struts (5 years), Java J2Ee, Spring Boot (3 years) Additional Information Operating Systems: Windows, UNIX, Linux.  Databases: Oracle, Postgres, MySQL, PL/SQL, MongoDB.  IDE: MyEclipse, Eclipse, Net beans.  Servers: Apache Tomcat, JBoss, Apache Web Server, Glassfish, WebLogic.  Tool: HG/SVN, Toad, SQL Developer, JIRA, Confluence, OSB, OSM, Teamcity, Dynatrace, Fisheye, Tealeaf, JMeter, SoapUI.  Deploy Script: ANT, Maven, Gradle