Sr. Java Architect/Tech Lead Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> Architect/Tech Lead Sr. Java Architect/Tech Lead - UTC Associates, Inc New York, NY • Excellent domain knowledge in the areas of Product development, Enterprise Application Development, UI, Distributed and Could Computing.  • 16 years of experience in Java, J2EE technologies using JSP, Servlets, EJB, JMS.  • Strong Programming Skills in designing and implementation of multi-tier applications using Java, Multi-Threading, J2EE, Spring, Spring Boot, Hibernate, Micro Services, NodeJS, Mongo DB, Neo4J, Elastic Search, Big Data, NoSQL DBs, Swagger YAML, Virtualization, Hypervisor, Cloud computing, OpenStack Platform, Docker, Kubernetes, Apache Kafka, Zookeeper, Mule, JDBC, JSP, JSTL, HTML5, JSF, Struts, JavaScript, AngularJS, ExtJS6.X, Servlets, JavaBeans, EJB 3.x, XSLT, JAXB, ELK tools.  • Experience in AWS EC2, OpenStack Platform clouds.  • Experience in WebSphere Application Server, WebLogic, JBoss, Apache and Tomcat Servers on Unix / Linux / Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) OpenStack Platform/ Windows Platforms.  • Experience developing with containers - Docker, Kubernetes.  • Experience in developing applications with appropriate usage of Design Patterns.  • Good experience in SOA Architecture, UML Design.  • 10 years of experience in developing web applications with MVC architecture using Struts, Tiles and Validator Frameworks, Wicket and Spring.  • Experience in developing Web services (SOAP, REST - API, WSDL, JAX-RS and JAX-WS) using CXF and Jersey.  • Experience in Multithreading applications.  • 13 years of experience in using Rational Application Developer (RAD), Eclipse, WebLogic Workshop, Oracle JDeveloper, JBuilder as IDE and Spring Tool Source (STS) • Experience in working with Messaging Framework using KAFKA, MQ Series, MDB and TIBCO.  • Strong Database design and development experience, which includes developing Stored Procedures, functions using SQL and PL/SQL in MS-SQL, Oracle, DB2, MySQL and PostgreSQL databases.  • 10 years of experience in using Spring Framework, Hibernate, JPA and Toplink.  • 11 years of experience in XML, DTD, Schemas and parsing and generating XML documents using DOM, SAX, JAXP parsers.  • Experience in development methodologies such as Agile, Scrum, Extreme Programming (XP), Test Driven Development, Continuous Integration and Waterfall.  • Experience in using CVS, Visual Source Safe, Subversion (SVN), Perforce and Hands on experience on GIT and Docker Hub.  • Experience in using Websphere ESB and Mule ESB.  • Experience in software testing, JUnit Framework, Selenium, TestNG, Mockito, regression testing, defect tracking and management using Clear Quest.  • Proficient in writing promotion scripts using Ant and Maven.  • Working knowledge and have good understanding of UML and defining Use Cases, Sequence, Object & Class diagrams.  • Experience in using LDAP for Authentication.  • Experience in Iterative Development Process using Rational Unified Process (RUP) and Agile methodology.  • Having knowledge on Hadoop, MapReduce, Cassandra, Hbase, Sqoop, Amazon Elastic Map Reduce (EMR) NoSQL.  • Ability to learn quickly and apply the emerging tools and technology. Work Experience Sr. Java Architect/Tech Lead UTC Associates, Inc - Nyc, NY, US October 2017 to Present Responsibilities: • Worked closely with Architects team for the design phase.  • Participate in review meetings, teleconferences for resolutions.  • Responsible for the architecture and security reviews in the program.  • Prepared end to end flow architectural flow diagram.  • Designed and Developed REST API end-points using Swagger YAML and NodeJS.  • Responsible for Analyzing, designing, developing, coordinating and deploying web based application.  • Worked on high level, detail design, Class diagrams and Sequence diagrams using UML modeling.  • Developed applications using Spring Boot and Micro services Architecture.  • Part of the Agile team in developing the application in agile methodology.  • Part of business analysis team to understand the existing system and integrating it to the new architecture.  • Worked closely with Architects team for the design phase.  • Crated container cluster and pods on kubernetes and deployed Docker images on Kubernetes.  • Did tear it down Kubernetes deployments.  • Defining the architecture for log analysis, analytics, telemetric data capture and real time data sync between SoT and Cloud and vice versa.  • Responsible for doing the evaluation for the license model for different open source tools for the enterprise supportability and calculating the cost of them.  • Written migration scripts for migrating data from Oracle to different cloud db's including mongo, redis and neo4J.  • Migrating the legacy monolithic struts application to Micro services platform.  • Design and developed Micro sites, Aggregators and Micro services.  • Design and developed Caching and Cache Evictions for both Paybill and View Bill applications.  • Responsible for the architecture and security reviews in the program.  • Prepared end to end flow architectural flow diagram.  • Designed and Developed REST API end-points using Swagger YAML.  • Implemented Authorization and Identity Access Management (AM) filters.  • Involved in the design decisions of the application.  • Designed and developed Data Virtualization process of the application using Cisco information server (CIS) • Involved in preparing the requirement document.  • Deployed Miroservies on AWS EC2, Docker containerization • Implemented TestNG framework to perform unit testing.  • Worked on ELK Stack Kibana tools and developed Kibana Dashboards.  • Resolved Kibana production reporting tool issues and developed alerts via Watch on Dashboards • Performed code reviews of the application.    Environment: Node JS, REST API, Micro Services, (MEAN Stack) Mongo DB, Neo4J, Elastic search, Apache Kafka, Zookeeper, Big Data, CentOS, Oracle, GIT, Swagger YAML, Java 1.8, Gradle, Multi-Threading, J2EE, Spring, Spring Boot, OAuth2.0, JSON, Mule, Docker, Kubernetes, Image management (Quay), Cloud computing, OpenStack Platform, Cisco information server (CIS), ExtJS 6.x, UNIX batch scripting, Visualization, KVM Hypervisor, Log4j, Agile scrum. Sr. Java Architect/Tech Lead Jc2 Technologies - Houston, TX, US August 2014 to September 2017 Responsibilities: • Responsible for Analyzing, designing, developing, coordinating and deploying web based application.  • Part of the Agile team in developing the application in agile methodology.  • Done sprint planning using RALLY.  • Part of business analysis team to understand the existing system and integrating it to the new architecture.  • Designed and developed Micro Services using (MEAN Stack) node.js, Mongo DB, Neo4J, Elastic search on Cisco Private Cloud OpenStack Platform.  • Developed application using NodeJS npm modules like Express, mongos, neo4j, Elastic search, async, etc • Designed and developed documents search on (4 - tuples) User, Container, Assets, Methods combination) using Elastic search.  • Suggested and implemented solution for the change data monitoring in source systems and notifying cloud applications using oracle golden gate and Kafka.  • Part of the tool evaluation team for the different use cases (change data capture from SOT to cloud DB, log aggregation, real time data sync between cloud application and SoT etc., ) • Prepared shell scripts for installing and running Kafka and zookeeper as services in centos environment.  • Worked on high level, detail design, Class diagrams and Sequence diagrams using UML modeling.  • Developed applications using Spring MVC design pattern.  • Develop, implement, and maintain an asynchronous, AJAX and jQuery based rich client for improved customer experience.  • Wrote SPA (Single Page Web Applications) using RESTFUL web services plus Ajax and AngularJS.  • Implemented the Project structure based on Spring MVC pattern using spring boot.  • Developed Micro Service to provide RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Worked on JSON format conversion to display data for view.  • Developed SOAP and Restful based web services.  • Develop and maintain elaborate services based architecture utilizing open source technologies like Hibernate ORM and Spring Framework.  • Effectively using Spring framework on developing controller, model, DAO and Services.  • Worked on OAuth2.0 security implementation for Restful web service.  • Developed Web services (SOAP) to interact with other components.  • Configured Spring and Hibernate components.  • Designed and developed business and persistence layer components using Spring, Spring IoC and Hibernate.  • Created business objects and service classes to implement business logic.  • Developed Data Access Objects (DAOs) and business delegates for accessing data.  • Integrated Spring DAO for data access using with Hibernate.  • vCloud sales analyzation developed using REST service with "Spring Data and MongoDB" backend.  • Written JUnit Test cases for perform unit testing.  • Troubleshooting and fixing defects during the time of testing.  • Wrote HQL queries within the DAO containing joins to fetch data from the database.  • Worked on writing SQL queries and PL/SQL for Oracle databases.  • Developed a proof of concept for using HBase and Cassandra to store and process borrower.  • Worked on HBase Shell, CQL, HBase API and Cassandra Hector API as part of the proof of concept.  • Involved in Bamboo Builds and experience in generating Emma coverage reports and VM Ware code quality reports both on local workstation.  • Worked on Maven builds. Tested the Web services by using SOAPUI.  • Did setup Virtual Machines (VM) on KVM Hypervisor with Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) OpenStack Platform and deployed applications on JBoss 7.1 server.  • Creation of and Linux VM templates and deployment of VMs using the templates • Snapshot creation, troubleshooting of issues with VM.  • Used Perforce as Version control.  • Debugged and developed applications using spring tool source (STS) • Established continuous integration (CI) practices and standards for SDP with JIRA, Jenkins, Nexus, Bamboo, Sonar, and Maven.  • Worked with QA team for testing and resolve defects.  • Rigorously reviewed code to meet the VM specific Standards and Quality.    Environment: Java 1.7, J2EE, Spring, Spring Boot, Hibernate, Web Services, SOAP, Restful, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, WSDL, JAXB, Apache CXF, Junit, Log4j, Spring Tool Source (STS), OAuth2.0, JBoss 7.1, SaaS Platforms, VMware vFabric tc Server Developer Edition v3.5, Liferay Oracle, TOAD, Perforce, Bamboo, Jenkins, Sonar, Maven, SQL, Jersey, MongoDB, vCloud, PL/SQL, XML/HTTP, AJAX, JSP, JSON, jQuery, HTML5, AngularJS, JavaScript, ExtJS, UML, SOAP UI, GemFire caching, Tomcat, Selenium, Windows, Unix, Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) OpenStack Platform, Amazon Web Services (AWS) Cloud computing, Visualization, Hypervisor, UNIX batch scripting, Agile scrum. Sr. JAVA J2EE DEVELOPER / tech lead Oakridge Infotech - Tampa, FL, US February 2012 to July 2014 Responsibilities: • Responsible for Analyzing, designing, developing, coordinating and deploying web based application.  • Done high level, detail design, Class diagrams and Sequence diagrams using UML modeling.  • Effectively using Spring framework on developing controller, model, and Adapter layers.  • Developed applications using Spring MVC design pattern, complying with StateFarm coding standards.  • Developed webservices using Apache-CXF and JAX-RPC for both on ICP/TP and Existing+ environments respectively by following StateFarm Coding standards.  • Involved in the design decisions of the application.  • Designed and developed Data Virtualization process of the application using Cisco information server (CIS) • Involved in preparing the requirement document.  • Performed code reviews of the application.  • Implemented custom process to receive messages from Oracle golden gate and process them and publish the messages to different Kafka topics based on interested cloud applications • Written stored procedures, packages, View, Cursors and Functions using Oracle pl/sql.  • Design and developed download multiple files concurrently using multi-threaded Executor Service framework.  • Implemented files upload system using HTML5 File API to file slicing, ExtJS6.x, Apache Commons Fileupload API and after uploading file, merge the chunks and validated with SHA512 checksum type.  • Hands on experience on GIT and Docker Hub.  • Involved in Docker containerizing the applications and pushing them to quay and deploying on kubernetes.  • Created Business objects and service classes to implement business logic.  • Developed Mule applications and deployed to consume them by web services.  • Worked on spring Integration tests (JUnit using mockito) to test the service real time in combination with other services.  • Worked on Web Sphere Service Registry (WSRR) by registering three services and promoted to several stages.  • Troubleshooting and fixing defects during the time of testing.  • Worked on writing SQL queries for Postgres and DB2 databases.  • Involved in Jenkins Builds on Hudson server. Experience in generating Emma coverage reports and SF code quality reports both on local workstation and Hudson server.  • REST service with "Spring Data and MongoDB" backend • Worked on Maven, ANT Builds and understood the artifactoy and repo structure adopted at StateFarm.  • Tested the Webservices by using SOAPUI.  • Worked on Tortoise SVN and did a hand full of code merge from branch to trunk level.  • Worked on Apache Directory Studio for mining the binded users to LDAP directory under different environments.  • Deployments done on Dev/Int Environment for both web services and mule projects.  • Thorough knowledge on Self-Service Portal usage, TPO wormhole for raising requests on security group nesting or any other request related to security in services.  • Debugged and developed applications using Rational Software Architect (RSA) and spring tool source (STS) • Worked on Dev/Int integration support and fixing production defects.  • Worked on Spring LDAP and its implementation.  • Rigorously reviewed code to meet the State Farm specific Standards, Quality and also used Code Tutor tool.  • Involved in TRAC management in order to keep track of defects during development and testing.    Environment: Java 1.7, J2EE, Spring v3.1.0, EJB 3.X Maven 2.3.1, XML, Web Services, JAX-WS, SOAP, WSDL, Apache CXF v2.6.6, Splunk, Junit, Mockito, Log4j, Spring Tool Source (STS), VMware vFabric tc Server Developer Edition v2.6, RSA v7.1, DB2, Postgres, Business Rules Engine (BRE) Drools, TOAD, Subversion, OAuth2.0, SQL, MongoDB, PL/SQL, XML/HTTP, Selenium, AngularJS, JavaScript, UML, Mule v3.x (ESB), Web Sphere Service Registry (WSRR), SOAP UI, Windows, Unix, Linux, Agile scrum. Sr. JAVA J2EE DEVELOPER / tech lead CyberCoders - Jersey City, NJ, US November 2011 to January 2012 Responsibilities: • Analyzed and designed the legacy systems into a brand new Web Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) system.  • Involved in functional requirements and prepared a detailed Use Cases and Functional Requirement Documents from the Business Requirements Specifications.  • Worked with the clients and the given business requirements and developed a Domain Model and an enterprise workflow management with ESB orchestration-the end product is the ESB assembly diagram of business workflows.  • Develop, implement, and maintain an MVC architecture utilizing Spring framework for large enterprise software tool.  • Responsible for Analyzing, designing, developing, coordinating and deploying web based application to support DCJS's business needs.  • Understanding the functional requirements and prepared a detailed Use Cases and Functional Requirement Documents from the Business Requirements Specifications.  • Responsible for User Interaction, Demonstration of the module for each iteration cycle.  • Responsible for analyzing and understanding of existing modules.  • Building integration flows, data transformations and business rules for DCJS ESB • Develop, implement, and maintain an asynchronous, AJAX based rich client for improved customer experience.  • Developed required Action classes, presentation layer forms using Action Form beans and Java beans containing the business logic.  • Developed Data Access Objects (DAOs) and business delegates for accessing data.  • Develop and maintain elaborate services based architecture utilizing open source technologies like Hibernate ORM and Spring Framework.  • Wrote HQL queries within the DAO containing joins to fetch data from the database.  • Wrote HQL criteria queries combined with projection and restrictions to fetch the data from database • Developed Stored Procedures and Functions, Views for the Oracle database (PL/SQL) • Code refactoring to get an advantage from technologies upgrade including usage of Generics, enums.  • Crated container cluster and pods on kubernetes and deployed Docker images on Kubernetes.  • Did tear it down Kubernetes deployments.  • Defining the architecture for log analysis, analytics, telemetric data capture and real time data sync between SoT and Cloud and vice versa.  • Responsible for doing the evaluation for the license model for different open source tools for the enterprise supportability and calculating the cost of them.  • Written migration scripts for migrating data from Oracle to different cloud db's including mongo, redis and neo4J.  • Design and implementation of CXF SOAP Webservices.  • Created Web Services client (SOAP, WSDL) Components.  • Developed unit and functional tests for the new functionality.  • Involved in impact analysis of change requests and Bug fixes.  • Automating the build & deployment process using maven and ant.  • Documenting the installation and deployment processes for a smooth production release and helping the deployment team to set up different servers.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, JMS, LDAP, Oracle, XML, Web Services, Apache CXF, SOAP, WSDL, Quartz job scheduling, Spring MVC, SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle, Site Minder, Subversion, SMTP ( Java Mail), Maven, Ant, Jtest, Apache Axis, XMLBeans, Log4j, TOAD, Junit, Selenium, Apache Tomcat Server, MyEclipse, Middlegen plugin, Windows, Unix, Agile scrum. Sr. JAVA J2EE DEVELOPER / tech lead Visionaire Partners - Atlanta, GA, US August 2009 to October 2011 Responsibilities: • Analyzed and designed the legacy systems into a brand new Web Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) system.  • Responsible for Analyzing, designing, developing, coordinating and deploying web based application.  • Design and implementation of framework for internal Web applications, including tools for automated testing and deployment.  • Responsible for Analyzing, designing, developing, coordinating and deploying web based application.  • Understanding the functional requirements and prepared a detailed Use Cases and Functional Requirement Documents from the Business Requirements Specifications.  • Reviewed and assisted junior developers with design and development.  • Involved in impact analysis of change requests and Bug fixes.  • Coordinating with offshore developers and explaining the tasks and debugging problems with them.  • Responsible for User Interaction, Demonstration of the module for each iteration cycle.  • Responsible for analyzing and understanding of existing modules.  • Design and developed Delivery Failure Module to handle failure notifications.  • Worked on Receiving, Process and Deliver Modules.  • Developed Stored Procedures and Functions, Views for the Oracle database (PL/SQL) • Maintain the code versioning the CVS and Migrate all the latest version code to the Production using Kintana tool.  • Followed OO technology and used "re-usable" components developed as a part of the main web application.  • Co-ordinate with team members and ensure that tasks are completing as per schedules.  • Resolve the issues immediately in TCA, TCB and TCC Instances and also resolve the cases which are identified during the business testing.  • Involved in impact analysis of Change requests and Bug fixes.  • Developed Message Driven Bean (MDB) components for Receiving, Process and Deliver Modules.  • Followed OO technology and used "re-usable" components developed as a part of the main web application.  • Implemented object/relational persistence (Hibernate) for the domain model.  • Developed Stored Procedures and Functions, Views for the Oracle database (PL/SQL) • Manage team and mentor junior team members.  • Designed and implemented build your own car module for all GM brands.  • Worked with the clients and the given business requirements and developed a Domain Model and an enterprise workflow management with ESB orchestration-the end product is the ESB assembly diagram of business workflows.  • Develop, implement, and maintain an MVC architecture utilizing Struts framework for large enterprise software tool.  • Developed required Action classes, presentation layer forms using Action Form beans and Java beans containing the business logic.  • Design and developed of RESTful Web services using Jersey JAX-RS.  • Developed Data Access Objects (DAOs) and business delegates for accessing data.  • Develop and maintain elaborate services based architecture utilizing open source technologies like Hibernate ORM and Spring Framework • Developed Message Driven Bean (MDB) components.  • Developed unit and functional tests for the new functionality.  • MongoDB NoSQL database.  • Involved in impact analysis of change requests and Bug fixes.  • Automating the build & deployment process using maven and ant.  • Documenting the installation and deployment processes for a smooth production release and helping the deployment team to set up different servers.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, JMS, LDAP, XML, RESTful Web Services, Jersey, JAX-RS, JSON, Quartz job scheduling, Spring MVC, MongoDB, Site Minder, GIT, SMTP ( Java Mail), Maven, Ant, Jtest, Apache Axis, XMLBeans, Log4j, TOAD, Junit, Selenium, JFree Chars, JBoss, MyEclipse, Middlegen plugin, Windows XP, Linux, Agile scrum. Sr. JAVA J2EE Developer Mitchell Martin, Inc - Irving, TX, US September 2007 to July 2009 Responsibilities: • Contributed to all development phases like requirement analysis, design, deployment, testing and maintenance.  • Was part of the team to design Returns and Receiving modules and integrated the modules with the other modules of the system.  • Strongly followed the coding standards and implemented J2EE Design Patterns.  • Developed Stored Procedures and Functions, Views for the Oracle database (PL/SQL) • Performed Unit testing on all modules and documented the whole project.  • Lead the team of developers in development, enhancements and bug fixing of Returns and Receiving modules.  • Helped the development team track defects, prioritize them and execute the test cases after defect fixing.  • Designed and developed web-based application to Cisco EMCO (AVP, MFG-Finance, COMBAT, OF modules) • Strongly followed the coding standards and implemented EJB and MVC Design Patterns. Involved in Unit testing and integrity testing of the modules, integrated the modules with the other modules of the system.  • Build roadmaps and frameworks to guide the project teams. Set direction for the evolution of applications and develop standards, guidelines and frameworks for use by the development teams.  • Responsible for designing in MQ Message Broker work flows like Transformation, Correlation, Aggregation, Auditing and Logging.  • ECM tools are used for managing product change with clear understanding of impact at all levels of the supply chain in order to optimize quality, cost and schedule metrics while providing customers with appropriate visibility to the change.  • In this track there are 5 different projects are used to maintain the different phases of Product lifecycle. These tools are java/oracle based tools, but these tools are having lot of performance issues. We are working on finding and fixing performance bottlenecks of these tools. In this process we also using profiling tool to find out the Memory leakages.  • Developed required Action classes, presentation layer forms using Action Form beans and Java beans containing the business logic.  • Coded Java applications on both client-side and server-side using JDBC and advanced multithreading.  • Developed Data Access Objects (DAOs) and business delegates for accessing data.  • Created Hibernate classes to transfer the data to the database.  • Helped the team design and develop the front-end for user interaction.  • Actively involved in the design/development of tables, views, functions and procedures of database.  • Interact with Business, Understanding the Cisco Procurement and payment process, analyze the requirements and prepare the technical design documents.  • Contributed to all development phases like requirement analysis, design, deployment, testing and maintenance.  • Worked with the business analysts to gather requirements regarding the project.  • Developed required Action classes, presentation layer forms using Action Form beans and Java beans containing the business logic.  • Developed Data Access Objects (DAOs) and business delegates for accessing data.  • Actively Involved in EJB component development, deployment for the application interface.  • Involved in impact analysis of Change requests and Bug fixes.  • Integrated the modules with the other modules of the system.  • Maintain the code versioning the CVS and Migrate all the latest version code to the Production.    Environment: Java, J2EE, EJB, Servlets, JSP, J2EE Design patterns, MQ Series, HTML, Java Script, Oracle, CVS, Eclipse, Weblogic, TOAD, Ant, Struts, XML, DTD, SAX, DOM, UML, Rational Rose, Unix, Sun Solaris and Windows XP. Education Bachelor's Skills J2EE (10+ years), JAVA (10+ years), C++ (Less than 1 year), JDK (Less than 1 year) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Languages Java (JDK 1.4/1.5/ 1.6/ 1.7), J2EE and C++