Java Technical Architect <span class="hl">Java</span> Technical Architect Java and J2ee, Mule Technical Architect - Virtusa Corporation Edison, NJ • 16 years of Experience in Java/J2ee application development, including analysis, design, development, deployment, testing, documentation, implementation, maintenance and production support of applications.  • 3 years' Experience in Mule Application RAML Design and Development.  • Extensive experience in Java application development and Distributed application development, OOP, Internet/Intranet based Database Applications.  • Extensively involved in developing enterprise applications using Java and J2EE technologies such as Core Java, JDBC, JSP, Servlet, Struts, EJB, XML, Spring & Ibatis, Hibernate, JMS, MQ Series, HTML, JavaScript, Web services, and SQL, JSR Port let 168.  • Experienced in using Application Server like JBoss, Web Logic, Web Sphere and Web Server like Tomcat.  • Well experienced in developing web applications with MVC architecture using Struts framework, Hibernate, Spring & Ibatis.  • Proficient in Web spherePortal6.1, JMS, TIBCO ESB and Oracle ADF Frame work  • Developed GUI using Swings.  • Extensive experience in designing, developing, deploying, configuring and optimizing J2EE components on application server like Web sphere, Web logic JBOSS and Tomcat as a Web server.  • Solid experience in building N-tier Web Enabled Applications using Struts, Spring & Ibatis, JSP, Servlets, EJB with MDB's and Oracle.  • Extensive experience in IDE such as Eclipse, My Eclipse, RAD.  • Experience in using design patterns like Singleton, Factory, Service Locator, Business Delegate, Session Facade, Value Object and DAO  • Knowledge on WebSpherePortal6.0, Design Patterns, MQ series.  • Excellent hands on experience in Hibernate, COBRA.  • Excellent hands on experience in UML.  • Experience on UNIX AIX commands, UNIX Shell Scripting.  • Knowledge on Hadoop and Big Data Base, NOSQLDB.  • Developed Micro Services using Spring Boot Frame Work  • Knowledge on ORACLE POLICY MODELING and writing Rules in Excel and Word Document.  • Worked in various projects that involved vendor team, system integrator team and the client team communications and business processes.  • Experience in working with JUnit as the testing framework  • Brings rich spectrum of various domain knowledge from Telecom, Financial and retail, Trading, Banking, and E-Commerce, Health Care, Government.  • Developed the RAML Specification for Contract-document, tele app API, preference API.  • Developed the Mule Soft API Proxy for Contract-document, Tele app API, preference API.  • Worked with AWS Cloud Platform for build and deployment for Calculator Excel Rules Project.  • Designing and implementing Oracle SOA Suite architecture environment.  • Worked with GIT branches master and Develop for Calculator Excel rules source code development.  • Worked with DynamoDB Table Creation and loading the data for Calculator reference tables.  • Responsible for Mule API's Build and Deployment job creation different environment's  • Worked on Sumo Logic configuration mule Deployment jobs based on source category.  • Responsible for Mule API Design and Development for Contract-document, Tele APP API, Preference API.  • Developed the choice router logic for Mule API.  • Developed the mock scenarios for mule API's based on consumer inputs.  • Developed the mule API's using Mule Studio. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Technical Architect Virtusa Corporation July 2017 to Present as a Associate Architect in Java/J2ee Technologies for Different clients Like Centene Corporation, Citi Bank, NYL.    Client: Centene Corporation  Role: Java Technical Architect  Responsibilities    • Worked with Centene Client as a java technical architect with providing technical solutions existing project's and new proposal projects for Federal Services.  • Developed the Mule migration service platform into Spring Boot Application micro service platform.  • Provided the new technologies stacks and technical inputs mule migration service platform to leadership team.  • Provided the High-level technical design approach document to build the Spring Boot Application Service using JAVA and J2EE technologies stack.  • Designed the high level layered Architecture components to build the new migration platform using JAVA and J2EE.  • Currently playing the leading role to build new spring boot migration services platform at Centene Client.  • Worked with Centene Client manager and Onsite team for day to day development activities for new migration platform services.  • Worked on Spring Boot Service each service through API gateway interact with different consumer's and interfaces.  • Worked on Business requirements and use cases scenarios to build the Spring Boot Service platforms.  • Participated with Technical discussion with Centene client customer on new mule migration service platform approach and design, implementation.  • Provided technical inputs and addressing the issues while developing the new services for Junior team member's.  • Building the new spring boot service platform should be accommodate the feature enhancement and performance without impacting the consumer's applications.  • Created Junit Test coverage for each of the service development.  • Fixing the new mule migration service source code issues with Development environment.  • Validating JSON request and JSON response with unit testing each service using POSTMAN.  • Monitor each service health check point using spring cloud stack.  • Dynatrace tool to monitor application metrics.  • Building strong and strategic relationship with client for day to day new migration development platform.  • As part of developing and designing the new mule migration service platform with Centene client standards tools and frame work component's.  • Building new spring boot service platform to address the existing mule platform with respect better performance and Query's optimizing.  • While migrating the new platform troubleshooting existing service issues Auto wire dependency, Spring Database profiles, JSON Schema Validation's.  • Worked on existing services source code fixing issues.  • Working on Mule Data transformation message objects to convert the Json Response of data.  • Worked on Mule Integration functionality's with PEGA.    Environment: Java1.8, Spring, Spring Boot, Tomcat, Bit Bucket, STS, VPN Client, VISIO, Maven, Jenkin, Spring Micro Service, Mule Soft API, Eclipse, Oracle11G. Java Technical Architect Vaktech Corporation LLC February 2014 to June 2017 in Java/J2ee Technologies for different client's PNC BANK, NYS DOH, UMASS Commonwealth MA HIX.    Client: PNC BANK, Pittsburgh PA-Contractor  Role: Java Technical Architect  Responsibilities:    • Responsible for High Level Design Document for centralized entitlement project.  • Responsible for High Level Architecture Components for centralized entitlement project.  • Provided the technical inputs and solutions team members.  • Provided with System Architecture End to End implementation centralized entitlement project.  • Provided with Technical Architecture and Deployment Diagrams for centralized entitlement.  • Developed Gradle build tool CE project structure  • Worked with integration component layers  • Worked with Source code development activity centralized entitlement  • Release Strategy with GIT Repository & SVN Repository for centralized entitlement application  • Worked with GIT branches for master and release centralized entitlement source code development.  • Worked with Entity model for centralized entitlement Application  • Participated HLD review meeting with customer  • Mentor Team on GIT Repository tool.  • Worked on Source tree tool to clone the source code from GIT repository.  • Designing and implementing Oracle SOA Suite architecture environment.  • Responsible for high level design to address functional, nonfunctional, integration component.  • Design Model Layer, Service layer, web layer component as part of development CE application.    Environment: Java1.8, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, spring, Spring MVC, Hibernate3.0, HTML, Web Sphere, Oracle12g,GIT,SQL Developer, Eclipse, VPN Client, VISIO, Gradle, HTML5, CSS3, Angular JS2.0, JavaScript, JQuery, Jenkin, Rest Full Service, Apache CXF, Bootstrap, DHTML, Source Tree,JAX_RS, WS Security, Dynatrace. Java Technical Architect Akvarr Inc July 2013 to January 2014 as a Programmer Analyst in Java/J2ee Technologies for client NYS DOL    Client: DOL, Albany NY-Contractor  Role: Java Technical Architect  Responsibilities:    • Involved in the requirement study, design.  • The basic framework is designed based on the MVC architecture for all core functionality.  • Identified the business entity, Classes, Interfaces and Operations, attributes based on the Requirements.  • Designed the Class diagram and Sequence diagram using IBM Rational Rose.  • Identified each layer components like presentation tier, service layer , business logic layer.  • Data Base layer as part implementation projects.  • Clear Case has been used as the version control system.  • Table's data analysis for different modules in employer benefits.  • Created packages folder structure each modules of the project.  • Source code review for different modules in employer benefits.  • Worked with Agile methodologies like Scrum    Environment: RSA 8.5.1, I ID 7.5.1, java, J2ee, Spring 3.0, Hibernate 3.0, UML, Web services,Oracle11g,Clear Case, Jenkin,Git, Java script, j Query, SYBASE.    Contractor DHW Sr. Java Developer Tata Consultancy Service - Overland Park, KS December 2012 to July 2013 as a Computer System Engineer in Java/J2ee Technologies for client Sprint.    Client: Sprint- MTS, Overland Park, KS - Contractor  Role: Sr. Java Developer    Responsibilities:  • Performed distributed IT design and development with Java Enterprise and J2EE.  • Developed the business logic spring and Hibernate implementation code for Content Stocking.  • Developed Content stack Jsp pages  • Worked on SQL Scripts for Data Access such as selection, insertion and deletion, Updating of data from Oracle database.  • Sql Script preparing for activity VIN's updated in database for WIFI Packages  • Developed stock controller using Spring MVC.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JDBC, JSP, Servlets, Spring3.0, Hibernate3.0, UNIX, putty6.0, JBOSS 7.0, oracle11g, Eclipse, VPN client, Maven, Subversion, WINSCP, SOAPUI 4.5.1. Restful Web service, Jenkin. Sr. Java Developer Yahoo - Santa Clara, CA April 2011 to December 2012 Deloitte - AOC    Client: Yahoo, Santa Clara, CA -Contractor  Role: Sr. Java Developer  Responsibilities:  • Reading the data from using XML files using DOM Parser to Fill the Form  • Worked on Core Java Technology 's.  • User Roles implementation for SFA.  • Used Agile Development methodologies like Scrum  • Unit Test Cases written for MDM search screen  • Subversion has been used as the version control system.  • Fill the form details company search screen using DOM Parser.  • Worked on TIBCO integration with MDM database for SOAP request and response data.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JDBC, Oracle, Eclipse, VPN client, Maven, Subversion, XML, Selenium, Test NG.    Client: Deloitte - AOC, Santa Anna, CA-Contractor  Role: Sr. Java Developer  Responsibilities:    • Developed different screens Case, Accounting and Judicial Officers Screens converting into Struts frame work tags CCMS Module.  • Analyzed the transactions with reduce the time for each transaction.  • Analyzed the business logic implementation code for each transaction.  • Developed the JSP pages and CSS to different screens to CCMS.  • Worked on SQL Scripts for Data Access such as selection, Insertion and Deletion, Joins of Data from Oracle Databases    Environments: Java, J2EE, JDBC, Struts, JSP, Servlets, EJB2.0, UNIX, putty6.0, weblogic10.3, Oracle10g, Eclipse, VPN client, TOAD, Clear Case, Jrockit_160_05 Sr. Java Developer Fresh Direct - New York, NY June 2010 to March 2011 Client: Fresh Direct, New York, NY - Contractor  Role: Sr. Java Developer  Responsibilities:  • The basic framework is designed based on the MVC architecture for all core functionality. Developed Business logic using Spring and Hibernate  • Developed different screens Dispatch Summary and Planning Screens in Transportation Module.  • Developed the business logic using Spring and Hibernate different statistics and information in Dispatch Summary screen that will help them make better decisions for mangers  • Developed the JSP pages and CSS to different screens to Transportation module in Fresh direct  • Black hole property set to the Transportation Application  • Worked on SQL Scripts for Data Access such as selection, insertion and deletion, joins of data from Oracle database  • Plan generation different routers in Transportation Module.  • Used Agile Development methodologies like Scrum  • Used Junit for testing each class.  • SVN has been used as the version control system.  • Developed Dispatch controller using Spring MVC  • Converted Asset and Route and truck screens Extreme component into JMESA component.  • Developed the business logic displayed data will be an employee's last name followed by a comma followed by their first initial followed by the first letter of their job type (role) in parentheses.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JDBC, JSP, Servlets, Spring3.0, Hibernate3.0, Unix, putty6.0, weblogic10.3,  Oracle10g, Eclipse, VPN client, TOAD, JMESA, SVN. Sr. Java Developer IBM India Pvt Ltd - Overland Park, KS March 2009 to May 2010 as a Sr. Technical Associate in Java/J2ee Technologies Through Dyn Pro India Pvt Ltd.    Client: Sprint, Overland Park, KS - Contractor  Role: Sr. Java Developer  Project: Third Party  Responsibilities:  • Installed the Application servers like web logic and web sphere servers on different environments like Production, Development and Test  • Installed the Web Servers like Sun One and I HS servers on different environments like Production, Development and Test  • Data Source Configuration in Web logic  • Installed SSL Certificates for Web logic and Sun One  • Bounced the Web logic, Sun One ,I H S , Web sphere and Tuxedo Servers  • Res loved the issues with Work Orders, Service calls and Pages on different servers  • Deployed the Application in Web logic  • Used Unix AIX commands for log location  • Daily status Report and Weekly report and issue tracker maintenance.  • Prepared AID for Application  • Involved in weekly project meetings and technical discussions  Environments: JDK1.4, JDBC, CORBA, Struts, JSP, Servlets, EJB, Unix, putty6.0, weblogic9.1,websphere6.1,Sun One,I HS , Tuxedo ,MQ Series, Oracle, RAD,VPN client. Sr. Technical Associate Grade G2 Tech Mahindra Ltd April 2008 to February 2009 April 2008-Feb2009  ? Worked as a Sr. Technical Associate Grade G2 in Java/J2ee Technologies for Tech Mahindra Ltd.    Client: AT&T - iOMW- Tech Mahindra Ltd    Role: Sr. Technical Associate Grade G2  Responsibilities:  • Highly involved in the technical discussions for gathering and finalizing of the system requirements  • The basic framework is designed based on the MVC architecture for all core functionalities  • Designs document Preparation  • Developed JSP Pages.  • Developed Form Beans, Action Class&Action Mapping Using Struts  • Used JMS and MQ series for Messaging  • Used CVS for version control through t the application  • Code fix for issues.  • Worked on SQL Scripts for Data Access such as selection, Insertion and Deletion, Joins of Data from Oracle Data Base.  • Order Creation  • IDL Structure Mapping for New fields  • Generated XSD for New fields  • Test Cases Preparation  • Developed test cases and produced test reports by integrating Ant, JUnit and Eclipse  • Environment setup for MQ Queues  • Daily Status Report, Weekly Status Report& Issue Tracker maintenance  • Involved in weekly project meetings and technical discussions  Environment: JDK1.4,Struts1.2,JSP2.0,JDBC2.0,EJB2.0,XML1.1,HTML,CORBA,Oracle10g,RAD6.0, Websphere6.0,MQ Series, Rational Rose, CVS Sr. Java Developer IBM India Pvt Ltd March 2007 to April 2008 Role: Sr. Java Developer    Responsibilities;  • Performed distributed IT design and development with Java Enterprise and J2EE.  • Developed the Port, PVC Screens using Swings.  • Participated in the Production, UAT support and maintenance of the project.  • Used SAX for reading data from XML document.  • Worked on SQL Scripts for Data Access such as selection, Insertion and Deletion, Joins of Data from Sybase Data Base.  • Used Unix AIX commands for log location.  Environment: JDK1.4, Swings, WebService1.3, XML1.1, CORBA, UNIX, Moose Server, Sybase, Eclipse3.1, SCME, Rational Rose. Sr. Software Engineer Satyam Computer Services Ltd September 2006 to March 2007 Sept2006- March 2007  ? Worked as a Sr. Software Engineer in Java/J2ee Technologies for Satyam Computer Services Ltd    Client: NISSAN -GOM Portal, Satyam Computer Services Ltd.  Role: Sr. Software Engineer    Responsibilities:  • The basic framework is designed based on the MVC architecture for all core functionalities  • Created HTML, CSS, XHTML and DHTML pages for front-end, used Struts  • Developed JSP Pages.  • Developed Form Beans, Action Class &Action Mapping Using Struts.  • Worked on SQL Scripts for Data Access such as selection, Insertion and Deletion, Joins of Data from Oracle Data Base  • Developed Business logic using spring and ibatis.  • Involved in weekly project meetings and technical discussions    Environment: JDK1.4, JDBC2.0, JSP2.0, Struts 1.2, spring& ibatis, XML1.1, HTML, JAVA Script, Oracle 9i, Eclipse3.1, JBOSS3.2.VSS Java Developer Zensar Technologies Ltd February 2006 to August 2006 Role: Java Developer    Unique contributions and responsibilities.  • Performed distributed IT Architecture design and development with Java Enterprise and J2EE.  • The basic framework is designed based on the MVC architecture for all core functionalities.  • Worked on SQL Scripts for Data Access such as selection, Insertion and Deletion, Joins of Data from Oracle Data Base.  • Developed Form Beans & Action Class Using Struts.  • Developed Business logic using EJB.  • Involved in weekly project meetings and technical discussions    Environment: J2SE1.4, JSP2.0, JDBC2.0, EJB2.0, XML1.1, Struts 1.2, Oracle 9i, Eclipse3.1.VSS Software Programmer Soft Pro Systems Ltd 2005 to August 2005 Role: Software Programmer  • Developed Robots using SOAP, WSDL.  • Developed Robots for customers.  • Developed Robots deployed in Web logic 8.1.  • This project we used Waterfall Model. Software Programmer in Java/J2ee Technologies Leap Stone Systems India Pvt. Ltd June 2001 to May 2003 Client: Walmart, RFID APPLICATIONS  Role: Software Programmer  • Designing and coding.  • Developed XML parsing techniques SAX, DOM, JAXB,  • Developed web service SOAP, WSDL.  • Designed and developed several enhancements for Order Flow System to improve/optimize the performance  • Bottom-Line responsibility for GUI Module for all the enhancements going into the system  • Deployment of developed code into Web logic server.  • Work effectively along with three teams working the same code base and communicating with teams to ensure a smooth check-ins. Education Ph.D in Computer Science in Computer Science STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK Present Crime Forecasting Survey Papers University at Albany NY December 2017 Research NTCS University at Albany NY May 2017 Research NTCS University at Albany NY April 2016 Enterprise Projects NTCS University at Albany NY April 2015 Research NTCS University at Albany NY April 2014 SUNY ALBANY NY April 2013 M. Tech in Comp Science & Engineering Osmania University (CBIT 2003 to 2005 M.Sc. in Computer Science Osmania University (BBCIT 1998 to 2000 B. Sc in Computer Science Kakatiya University - Warangal, Telangana 1995 to 1998