Service now Admin/ Developer Service now Admin/<span class="hl">Developer</span> Service now Admin/ Developer - USAA Bloomfield, NJ • Overall 10+ years of professional IT experience in Service-Now platform as both Developer and Administrator.  • Integration Analyst responsible for Systems Engineering, Designing, Developing, Testing, and implementing specifications provided by the client.  • Experience in, Monitoring tools, Bridge calls, Outage Communication, Business Impact Analysis, IT Service Continuity Management, SLA Management.  • Experience in designing, developing, customizing & administering ITSM suite of applications.  • Experience in debugging and troubleshooting the existing codes.  • Excellent knowledge of hand-coded HTML, CSS, JavaScript, DOM, JavaScript/UI libraries and their use in implementing AJAX solutions.  • Experience in performance tuning of Service-Now Setups.  • Supported the IT team responsible for the implementation and administration of the ServiceNow implementation, including managing system configurations, gathered and documented user and process requirements, developed workflow customizations.  • Knowledge in object-oriented analysis design and application development.  • Experience in creating Portfolio in Eureka and Fuji release.  • Good understanding of Helpdesk / Service Desk, Change Management, Asset Management, Change Tasking, Service Level Agreement and Service Request Management.  • Strong analytical and problem-solving skills and the ability to interpret and communicate facts and data.  • Worked on creating users, roles, groups and configured LDAP Server and LDAP Listener for updating the user and group table record.  • Experience in working with Content Management System (CMS) and Self-Service portal using Jelly Script and UI Macros.  • Experience working in Customer Service Management (CSM) system.  • Customized Service Portal, CMS using widget editor tool and provided support.  • Hands on experience on various IT Services modules of Service-Now tool like Service Catalog Requests, Asset Management, Configuration Management, Service-NowAdministration, Incident and Problem Management, Knowledge Management, Project Portfolio Management, Reporting, Gauges, HR Service Portal, Integration with Web Services.  • Worked extensively with Eclipse, Android Studio, Visual Studio.  • Proficiency in developing and design of mobile and embedded technologies on mobile platform, Android with SDK version from 2.3 to 4.2 and application development in Android NDK.  • Good Knowledge of ITIL and ITSM best practices.  • Good Understanding in gathering Systems Requirements Analysis, Design, Coding, Testing, Implementation and Documentation.  • Incident Management where issues of high critical Infrastructure and Applications in production environment were facilitated with escalations, outage communications, and bridge calls management targeting restoration of services the sooner. Monitoring tools are leveraged to detect most of the incidents.  • Problem Management where recurring issues are ticketed and discussed in the global meetings in regular intervals for enriched permanent solution.  • Change Management where the configuration items' (CIs) change request are approved after understanding the business impact, operation hours, duration of the change and reason for the change.  • Business Continuity Plan / Disaster Recovery Plan has been an innovative setup after understanding the criticality and 24X7X365 availability of the team. This included lot of wisdom on ITIL like BIA, ITSCM, Maintenance and Monitoring, etc.  • Knowledge Management/Document Management which contains SOPs for Incident Identification, Resolution, and Escalation Contacts etc. are maintained with 100% availability of the documents upon regular audits.  • Excellent communication, analytical, leadership and project management skills. Work Experience Service now Admin/ Developer USAA - San Antonio, TX October 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis of end user requirements and business rules based on given documentation and worked closely with tech leads and Business analysts in understanding the current ServiceNow system.  • Involved in coding the Business Rules (Server-Side Scripting), Client Scripts (Client-Side Scripting), Script includes in the ServiceNow  • Maintained and administered the implemented instance of ServiceNow and performed tasks such as Configuring Users, company, site, location and other existing fields, Support Groups, assignment rules, categorizations, CIdata, SLA etc.  • Worked on DISCOVERY and set up mid servers and check for the connectivity, Became an expert in troubleshooting Discovery tool.  • Involved in creation of custom Widgets using Angular JS for the Service Portal.  • Created notifications based on user requirements and configured inbound email actions to create incidents or requests.  • Supported and created an Access Control rule (ACL)  • Involved in Designing, Development and Implementation of Service Portal.  • Designed a portal, to provide end users ease of access while creating requests  • Worked on the latest release EUREKA which is the advanced release and discovered Service-Now upgrades.  • Involved in development of several UI Pages and service portal and HR portal.  • Experience in running HR reports to view the status of HR cases, track them, and intervene where required, to improve overall efficiency and effectiveness.  • Created Service Portal pages for the applications as per business requirements.  • Worked on business requirements and technical specifications for ITSMplatform.  • Gave access to end users to submit requests from Service Portal page.  • Created categories, sub-categories, items for the application and used them in Portal page.  • Worked with team as junior developer to understand OKTA integrated configurations SSO using SAML 2.0 version project environment.  • Created and utilized Update Sets to move all the work from one instance to another.  • Maintained and administered the implemented instance of Service Now and performed tasks such as Configuring Users, company, site, location and other existing fields, support Group, assignment rules, categorization, CI data, SLA etc.,  • Worked on creating project templates and roll up calculations for tasks and sub tasks using Project Portfolio Management module.  • Created schedules, reports, and monitor performance of Service-Now.  • Created new Business Rules/Script Includes/Client catalog script/Client Script.  • Creating Knowledge articles to document the steps in creating the catalog items.  • Sr. Developer for Service Catalog, rating systems, Service Requests configurations, AD Integration using SAML, Integration of federated CMDB through ServiceNow Mid-Server technologies.  • Development of Servicecatalog which includes creating new catalog items, HR case module, designing workflows and execution plans.  • Implemented ServiceNowITSM applications using ITIL V3 services best practice processes, methods, testing, and training projects for multiple, diverse organizations.  • Worked on service catalog in introducing new Catalog items based on the client's requirement.  • Experience working with the workflows using Service Now workflow Editor.  • Experience with Web Services integrations and with web services via APIs and worked on Active Directory, LDAP, JAVASCRIPT, AJAX, CSS, XML, HTML and UNIX.  • Worked on ServiceNow Discovery tool to identify IP-enabled configuration items (CIs), map their interdependencies, and populate them in the CMDB.  • Installed MIDServers on remote desktop and conducted tests required for Discovery.  • Used data sources to migrate the data from excel sheets to Service-Now through transform maps.  • Created Workflows, Sub flows and Tables both on Fuji and Geneva.  • Managed inbound and outbound notifications in Fuji and Geneva.  • Written script includes and invoked them in business rules and client scripts.  • Creation of update sets, export the update sets, retrieve the update sets.  • Imported Active Directory to Service now using data sources.  • Done integration with 3rd party tools using (Web services, SOAP, Email, MID server)  Environment: CMDB, ServiceNow Fuji/Geneva, CSS, Java Script, HTML, Discovery, JSON, jQuery, Angular JS, SOAP, AJAX, SCRUM, ITIL. Service now Admin/ Developer BMW Financials New Jersey July 2016 to September 2018 Responsibilities:  • Created Applications, Modules, Tables, Columns as per the requirement specifications in ServiceNow.  • Involved in creating users, groups, roles and load the data to service now using import sets on daily, weekly or requirement basis.  • Development of Service Catalog which includes creating new Catalog items, designing workflows and execution plans.  • Worked with reporting in configuring Service Level 'Agreements (SLA).  • Involved in LDAP integration with ServiceNow for obtaining users and groups.  • Created Record Producers, Order Guides and Catalog Client Scripts and Work flows.  • Involve in migration between various environments in Service Now using update sets and import sets.  • Created Workflows, Sub flows and Tables on both Fuji and Eureka. Managed inbound and outbound notifications in Fuji and Eureka.  • Utilized Orchestration to extend workflows to interact with systems and applications outside the ServiceNow instance.  • Involved in redesigning the workflows using ServiceNow workflow editor also involved in reconciliation of complicated workflows to simpler form.  • Developed Transform maps to map values between Import Set and ServiceNowtables.  • Involved in cloning between various environments in ServiceNow.  • Development of UI pages using HTML and jelly scripting for ESS (Employee Self-Service) portal.  • Extensively worked with REST GET and POST using basic HTTP Authentication.  • Handling the Web responses and Parsing the XML and JSON data to load into tables using XML and JSON parsers in ServiceNow.  • Data Population for New Catalog Item, Maintenance of CI (Configuration Items) and workflows in CMDB module.  • Responsible for creating homepages including basic reporting, gauge configuration and dash board presentation.  • Worked on change management module by enhancing the tool to the stakeholders and made it easy to understand.  • Designing Technical Specs pre-development and updated post Development. Developed the business logic based on the requirement.  • Involved in upgrading version of ServiceNow from Fuji to Geneva with focus on Service Catalog and have knowledge with patches for same version.  • Configured multiple Catalog Items Front-end web / GUI components using JavaScript, Soap, web services, CSS, HTML5.  • Worked on Glide AJAX and Glide Records for scripting and UI actions.  • Implemented JDBCExport to execute custom SQL queries in the target database based on requirement.  • Worked on scheduling the report generation in ServiceNow as per the requirements.    Environment:Service Now Fuji/Geneva, HTML5, Java Script, JSON, SOAP, Web services, MS SQL Server, Integration, SCRUM. Service now Admin/ Developer Capital One Mc Lean October 2014 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Worked on various modules of ServiceNow which include Incident, Change and Problem Management.  • Interacted with Stakeholders, Users and Customers for gathering requirements to arrive at design solution.  • Designed a portal, to provide end users ease of access while creating requests. Made several enhancements to the portal based on the feedback received from users.  • Involved in designing the portal and showcasing it into a user-friendly environment.  • Manages data with Tables, the CMDB, Import Sets, and Update Sets.  • Created suggested relationships for configuration items in CMDB.  • Worked on DISCOVERY and set up mid servers and check for the connectivity, Became an expert in troubleshooting Discovery tool.  • Installed MID Servers on remote desktop and conducted tests required for Discovery.  • Involved in creation of reports, dashboards in ServiceNow.  • Developed as a team an audit process to audit orphan records in Active Directory.  • Updated Active Directory functional level from Windows Server 2003 to Windows Server 2012 R2.  • Created various front-end forms, and associated Client Scripts, UI policies, including advanced customizations that require modification of UI Pages/Macros.  • Creation, modifying, User records in Active Directory, working on IMAC (incident, move, add, change) and id-admin tickets.  • Working with service delivery team, regarding incident tickets review.  • Design and develop solutions within the Service-Now environment to include modifications of applications, forms, workflow, interfaces and any other customization required to support ITIL processes.  • Worked with reporting and configuring service level agreements (SLA's)  • Strong knowledge of the server-side scripting Business rules and Script Includes.  • Created notifications based on user requirements and configured inbound email actions to create incidents or requests.  • Developed Complex workflows in Service Catalog for interaction with Third Party Sources.  • Developed solutions using JavaScript, Web Services,REST and other web technologies to integrate ServiceNow with internal/ external systems and tools.    Environment: ServiceNow Fuji, LDAP integration, AngularJS, Form Creation, AJAX, jQuery, XML, Jelly script, JavaScript, CSS3, REST, HTML5. ServiceNow Developer McLean, VA March 2013 to September 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed and managed application code, user interface, and third-party integration components in all stages of the CMDB development project (i.e. definition, development, deployment)  • Implemented Project and Portfolio management (PPM) coupled with Timecards and Financial management.  • Experience developing and configuring ServiceNow modules including PPM.  • Trained multiple IT teams to build their portfolios and helped managers to build reports.  • Manage development of solutions to migrate and/or integrate disparate data to an enterprise CMDB solution.  • Worked closely with the Data Architect and the DBA in ensuring that enterprise architecture standards and policies are met.  • Implemented Virtual LANs across Routers and Switches.  • Designed and implemented IP Addressing, Subnetting, Route Summarization and Route Distributions.  • Participated in design, code, test reviews cycles.  • Ensured project scope and objectives are accomplished within the prescribed time frame sand funding parameters Build web content on Servicenow Platform.  • Configuring VLANs, STP, VTP and Inter-VLAN routing in LAN environment.  • Provided detailed architecture analysis and design, and direction on the development activities.  • Performed Servicenow implementation tasks including but not limited to: configuration, integration, custom programming.  • Developed and documented best practice approaches and reusable assets.  • Supports implementation and provides requested enhancements to PPM implementation during and post go live  • Documented technical architectures that could be clearly understood and immediately used by developers to construct code and unit test.  • Participated in the full software development life cycle: Analysis, Design, Coding, Testing, Training, and Operational Support.  • Used SCRUM/Agile development methodology.  • Worked on common web-technologies including HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Jelly.  Environment: Java Script, JSON, jQuery, Prototype, Web Services, SOAP, SQL, XML, HTML, AJAX, Shell scripting, Integrations. Java Developer CVS - Irving, TX June 2011 to February 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in database modeling applying the normalization rules.  • Developed Code using Struts framework, based on the MVC design pattern.  • Developed the presentation layer using Struts Tag Libraries.  • Developed the application with iterative methodology, recapturing the existing code and writing a new code for most of the modules.  • Created POC for Spring Batch for running batch jobs.  • Worked on backend logic using Servlets, EJB, Hibernate and JDBC.  • Developed page specific elements, handlers, web beans, view helper classes, JSP pages & fragments by using design patterns and Java standards.  • Analyzed, designed, validated the business logic of the system and implemented the application.  • Developed business services using EJB's and used SOAP API.  • Translated functional requirements into technical design by gathering the user stories.  • Developed order history and order status of all the Authorized agent's specific bonds.  • Developed dynamic pages for generating a report for displaying the existing business rules based on search criteria to be reviewed by the CNA internally.  • Involved in debugging the product using JIRABug Tracking.  • Deployed the application on to Websphere application server.  • Developed Search Tool for the organization to display reports agent wise, month wise, weekly.  • Involved in developing the UI pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery and AJAX.  • Developed servlets for generating reports in PDF format.  • Implemented logging using log4j.  • Deployed the application in JBOSS Application Server.  • Developed Servlets and Worked extensively on My SQL.  • Worked with MySQL for SQLYog and Workbench.  • Written JQuery Validations for the User Front-ends.  • Maintenance of data in different Oracle Database and environments using TOAD.  • Worked on Hibernate object/relational mapping according to database schema.  • Effective using in Clearcase and clear quest for version control and defect tracking.    Environment: Windows XP, Java, J2EE, Struts, EJB, Servlets, Session Beans, ANT, Javascript, JSPS, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON, Oracle 10g, AJAX, SOAP, TOAD, Eclipse, WebSphere Application Server, WebLogic, Apache CXF, MySQL, XSLT, Junit, Log4j, Rational ClearCase, ClearQuest. Software Developer First Republic Bank - San Francisco, CA June 2008 to May 2011 Responsibilities:  • Involved in all stages of SDLC from requirements gathering to maintenance of the deployed code.  • Gathered requirements and created detailed business and technical specifications.  • Developed and implemented various dynamic web based applications using JSP, Servlets, Java Script, AJAX, HTML and CSS.  • Implemented the project using Struts2 framework.  • Developed Struts forms and actions for validation of user request data and application functionality.  • Developed JSP's with Struts custom tags and implemented JavaScript validation of data.  • Developed programs for accessing the database using JDBC thin driver to execute queries, prepared statements, Stored Procedures and to manipulate the data in the database.  • Used JDBC API to persist as well as retrieve the data in Oracle database.  • Performed JNDI lookup to get data sources.  • Developed the Action Classes and Action Forms.  • Used various Core Java concepts such as Multi-Threading, Exception Handling.  • Deployed the application on IBM WebSphere application server.  • Used Eclipse IDE to facilitate the development process.  • Developed various test cases and performed unit testing using Junit.  • Implemented log4jAPI for logging of the errors, warnings, messages.  • Used Rational Clear Case for configuration management and ANT as the build tool.  • Developed the project using the waterfall model.  • Worked in UNIX environment for developing the application.    Environment: Java, Struts, JSP, Servlets, EJB, JMS, PL/SQL, XML, JMS, WebSphere Application Server, Eclipse, HTML, CSS, JUnit, Log4j, Clear Case, ANT, Oracle 9i, MY SQL, Windows. Education Bachelor's Skills Android (Less than 1 year), Angular js (1 year), Apache (1 year), Bmc (Less than 1 year), change management (5 years), Css (9 years), Eclipse (4 years), Html (9 years), Itil (2 years), Java (9 years), Javascript (10+ years), jquery (5 years), Json (6 years), Ldap (4 years), Ms sql server (2 years), My sql. (1 year), Pl/sql (3 years), Sql (8 years), Sql server (2 years), Web services (6 years)