ServiceNow Developer/Architect ServiceNow <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Architect ServiceNow Developer/Architect - Ameriprise Financial Minneapolis, MN • Over 9+ years of experience as an IT Professional, including 5+ years of experience as a ServiceNow Suite developer and Administrator with extensive experience on Technical implementation of various ServiceNow Modules.  • Certified in ITIL V3 Foundation.  • Certified Service Now System Administrator.  • ServiceNow Analyst with experience on implementing end-to-end Service Catalog, Incident Management, Configuration & Asset Management, Change Management, Knowledge Management and Release Management  • Involved in managing system configurations, gathering and documenting user and process requirements, developing workflow customizations, and performing quality assurance testing, user acceptance testing and third party integration for Service Now platform.  • Excellent hands on Configuration and customization of Help Desk, Change/Incident/Problem Management Modules including: Business Rules, Client Scripts, Dictionary Overrides, UI Policies and UI Actions based on user requirements.  • Experience developing ServiceNow applications from business requirements and technical design documents.  • Experience in creating scripts like Client Scripts, Catalog Client Scripts, UI scripts and UI Policies.  • Experience in Implementing Single Sign On (SSO) using SAML 2.0 with Windows Active Directory and LDAP  • Experience in Inbound Email Integration and created Outbound Email Notifications using Email Templates.  • Experience in Client Script/Calling server side code using Glide Ajax in Client Script.  • Customized Scripting on Service Catalog/Email Template/Workflow script.  • Experience in Server Script (Business Rules/Script Include/Service Catalog) and good understanding of Server/Client API.  • Experience on DISCOVERY and setting up MID servers and populating CMDB  • Responsible for configuring and setting up Service-now (ITSM) Information Technology Service Management application, including the maintenance and support in the implementation of all modules.  • Designed, documented and tested web services using C#, .Net and Visual Studio.  • Tested and implemented applications built using Python.  • Excellent Interpersonal skills, Communication skills, Documentation Skills, problem solving ability, Analytical and Programming skills in High speed, Quality conscious and Multi-tasked environment.  • Goal oriented professional with excellent customer service skills and technical background and the ability to quickly grasp new skill sets. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience ServiceNow Developer/Architect Ameriprise Financial - Minneapolis, MN May 2017 to Present date    Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with Business people to gather functional and technical requirements.  • Involved in creating Technical Design Documents and High-Level Definition Documents.  • Involved in designing the Architecture of domain structure and custom modules.  • Involved in Domain separation, to hand over different domains to different Clients.  • Created custom tables and extended child tables with domain separation and making sure domain separation will not affect Database Views.  • Created Custom Roles and custom access using Custom ACLs, with Many to Many Relations (M2M tables).  • Created Custom Access on form fields using UI Policies and ACLs.  • Modified Personalized List Columns on a list view, based on access.  • Created Domain based List Views.  • Created Custom Workflow Activity Definition and custom Action model for workflows.  • Created UI Page using Jelly which gets triggered by UI Action on form.  • Created UI Page to take action on Workflows, or to process workflows.  • Developed a Script Include to query workflow transition states from Workflow Transition, Executing and Context tables to pass the current and future states of the workflow to the UI Page.  • Created Database Views for querying tables to improve performance of ServiceNow to end user.  • Queried Database Views to pass required values to Content Management screen using REST API.  • Created Service Catalog which can be requested by a UI Action on List View of table.  • Configured User Criteria for Knowledge Articles  • Worked on creating and publishing Knowledge Articles for the end user.  • Developed Client Scripts and Business Rules to populate user related values.  • Configured query based Business Rule to filter the data in a table based on user selection from user preference table.  • Developed custom script which redirects to CMS page based on access.  • Configured Email Notifications and Alerts using events whenever a task gets assigned to a user in a workflow.  • Merged different Update Sets for easy handling of Updates  • Developed custom search on different tables, which helps end user to search any value from tables in CMS page.  • Filtered data in reference tables using script includes using advanced Reference Qualifiers.  • Developed server side and client callable script includes for Data Security.  • Involved in bringing attachments to ServiceNow using Attachment REST API from Pentaho with PowerShell scripting.  • Configured Related Lists on Custom tables.  • Enabled Multi-Factor Authentication to give more security for user login.  • Worked with QA team to build unit test cases.  Environment: Glide Script, JavaScript, ServiceNow (Geneva, Helsinki) Web Services, Html, CSS. ServiceNow Developer/Analyst VCE - Dallas, TX September 2015 to April 2017 Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with Analyst in understanding the requirements and improving them  • Reviewed documentation of Analyst which includes Business Requirements Document  • Create new service catalog requests and items with variables  • Developed UI Appearance for Service Catalog Requests  • Create, monitor, modify, and publish service catalog workflows with approvals  • Designing, configuring and customizing new applications and modules. Assisting in troubleshooting patch / release management issues.  • Build reports, gauges and home pages  • Create and use update sets to move customizations between systems  • Search, populate, and customize the knowledge base  • Configuration of Email Notification and Alerts to notify users about specific activities in the system  • Writing Business Rules, Client scripts, UI Policies and UI Actions to customize the instance as per Business needs.  • Enhancement and improvisation of tool in terms of features and capabilities to be made available to customers.  • Developed the functionality of versioning of the Knowledge Management for the knowledge and knowledge admin role based users  • Used Access Control Rules for securing and providing the right access to right person/role.  • Recommends appropriate design alternatives to be implemented based on customer constraints.  • Worked on Release management, Incident Management, Change Management.  • Created several workflows and workflow scripts using Workflow Editor.  • Used Notifications to send communication from the system.  • Monitored system performance and provided system statistics and reports to the Business.  • Develops conversion plans and procedures.  • Performed Data migration of CI Attributes for CMDB using import sets  • Managing CMDB and Asset Management.  • Integrated ServiceNow with LDAP and enabled Single Sign on • Customization of applications according to business needs.  • Created process documentation for the solutions implemented.  • Involved in development of Content Management system.  • Created groups for set of users, and used them for approval, assignment, receiving notifications.  • Integrated different back end systems using WebServices like SOAP and REST  • Worked with JavaScript, XML to create front-end and back-end components such as forms, buttons, views, pages, business rules and workflows.  • Developed Content Management System (CMS) solutions on ServiceNow.  • Developed Unit test cases for testing of the developed applications.  • Reviewed Testing team test cases, scripts, test plans.  Environment: Html, CSS, JavaScript, Glide Script, ServiceNow, Web Services, LDAP, SSO ServiceNow Developer/Administrator Well Care - Tampa, FL July 2014 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with Business Resource, Stake holders, Analysts, different teams in understanding the requirements  • Documented Business Requirements Document, Functional design documents, Process flow diagrams using MS Visio.  • Involved in reviewing the requirements and designing of the workflows in ServiceNow  • Maintained ServiceNow related documentation in SharePoint Portal  • Implemented, documented and maintained the Service-Now platform to meet specific business needs to support ITIL and business processes.  • Customized UI Appearance for Problem and Change Management Application which is simple, intuitive and easy to use.  • Design and Configuration of workflows to meet specific business needs to support ITIL and business processes  • Involved in creating and migration of update sets between different ServiceNow Instances.  • Optimized and Monitored system performance and provided system statistics and reports to the Business.  • Customization of Incident Management Application.  • Creation of assignment rules and Custom Related Lists.  • Implemented Email Notifications and Inbound Actions.  • Created both inbound Scripted Web services and inbound Email Actions to incidents from Emails.  • Development of Service catalog which includes creating new catalog items, designing workflows and execution plans.  • Involved in working with process owners to develop workflow, implement the workflows in Service Applications and Re-designed workflows using workflow editor, reconciled complicated workflows to simpler form.  • Exporting and Importing tables, import sets, workflows, update sets data from one instance to the other.  • Create, monitor, modify, and publish Service catalog workflows with approvals and maintain Single Sign-On integration.  • Developed and configured Business Rules, Script Includes, UI Policies, Catalog Client Scripts and Client Scripts.  • Worked on DISCOVERY and set up MIDservers and check for the connectivity.  • Developed Probes and Sensors in Discovery  • Involved in reconciling process of CMDB Data in Servicenow with Back end systems  Environment: JavaScript, Java, Html, CSS, Glide Script, ServiceNow, Web Services, Discovery ServiceNow Developer GEICO - Chevy Chase, MD May 2013 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering requirements from Client.  • Technical implementation of various ServiceNow modules such as Change Management, Incident Management, Problem Management, Service Catalog, Configuration Management.  • Implemented best practice of ServiceNow Scripting, which enhanced the System performance.  • Implemented Risk Management for the Risk evaluation of the change Request associated with the Configuration Item.  • Communicated with end users, identifying their difficulties and changing the applications as per their requirements.  • Involved in resolving Production Support tickets.  • Participating in meeting with SME's and Project Managers to analyze the requirements and developing the workflow design of request items using Agile Methodologies.  • Invovled in creation of different forms and implemented business logic using Client Scripts, UI policies, UI Pages, Macros.  • Designed Workflows, along with standard Workflow templates which can be reused.  • Planning and coordinating the execution of Implementation with different teams like Business, Stakeholders, Development, Testing, Productin Support and have performed validations for all development activities in ServiceNow.  • Configured UI Page and UI Macro using the Jelly and JavaScript.  • Involved in developing DISCOVERY to load configuration information to CMDB.  • Developed Integration with System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM).  • Involved in LDAP integration with ServiceNow for obtaining users and groups.  • Configured end to end process for Knowledge management, and worked on the knowledge Centered Support (KCS) plugin.  • Worked on creating users, roles, groups and Configured LDAP Server and LDAP Listener for updating the user and group table record.  • Worked closely with testing team in devleoping test cases  • Clarified testing team related tickets and closed them.  Environment: Html, CSS, JavaScript, Glide Script, ServiceNow, LDAP, SCCM ServiceNow Developer AT&T - Dallas, TX March 2012 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  • Design, configure and implement ServiceNow components to meet specific business needs to support ITIL and business processes  • Utilized Java Scripting to deliver solutions that automate and audit business processes using UI Policy, Client Script, UI Action and Business Rules.  • Configured Service Level Agreements to define SLA from both internal and external providers  • Responsible for maintaining and growing data held within ServiceNow such as our users, locations, configuration items, service catalog items.  • Involved in working on UI configuration for each application in ServiceNow  • Development of requirement for integration with different systems using SSO, LDAP, SOAP, REST, Email, Import Sets.  • Converted the Legacy proprietary Service Catalog into a more user friendly ServiceNow Content Management Module  • Involved in design, configuration, testing of workflows to meet business requirements.  • Configuration of Email Notification to alert users on ServiceNow activities, escalations, SLA issues.  • Conducted meetings with customers, business users, analysts to design and build applications.  • Involved in development activity of Catalog Items, Ordered Guides, Custom Related Lists , Custom Tables, Custom Roles and Dictionary fields  • Involved in creating and testing Update Set migration between DEV/QA/Prod environments.  • Created Business Rules, Script Includes, UI Policies, Catalog Client Scripts , Client Scripts, Scheduled Jobs, Wizard panels and Wizard Clients scripts, Content item, customizing UI header, Footer  • Developed and maintained APIs and data integration processes between ServiceNow and other services using SOAP, Rest Protocols.  • Developed Access Control list using Scripting  • Documented entire ServiceNow development work and uploaded in SharePoint Portal  Environnent: Html, CSS, JavaScript, Glide Script, Service Now, SharePoint Portal Java/J2EE Developer JP Morgan Chase - New York, NY April 2011 to March 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like analysis, requirement gathering, design and development.  • Developed a prototype of the application and demonstrated to business users to verify the application functionality.  • Implemented server side tasks using Servlets and XML.  • Design and coding common utilities to be used in the application like an excel import utility.  • Involved in periodical review of the tasks of all the modules inside GIS.  • Configured Hibernate, mapping and creation of mapping using RAD.  • Built SOAP Web services and developed Action classes, Action Forms and Struts Configuration file to handle required UI actions, JSPs for Views.  • Created and deployed web pages using HTML, JSP, JavaScript and CSS.  • Integrated Single Sign On for Online Claims application by dynamically generating payload based on the user credentials when they click on a click which directs to the Online Claims application.  • Involved in design and test environments of web services using C#, .Net and Visual Studio.  • Tested and implemented applications built using Python.  • Responsible for coding SQL Statements and Stored procedures for back end communication using JDBC.  • Involved in preparing the Documentation of the project to understand the system efficiently.  • Involved in the configuration management using CVS.  • Developed Session beans, which encapsulate the workflow logic.  • Used JUnit for Unit Testing and Clover for code coverage.  • Designed Use case diagrams, Class diagrams and Sequence diagrams using UML.  Environment: JDK1.2, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, DHTML, CVS, XML, Struts, JSP, JBoss Drools Rule Engine, Servlet, JNDI, J2EE, Tomcat, Oracle. Java/J2EE Developer MassMutual - Denver, CO July 2010 to March 2011 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the complete development, testing and maintenance process of the e-commerce application.  • Designing web pages for HTML files that supports AJAX component, Rich design time UI to use AJAX libraries such as Dojo, jQuery.  • Developed J2EE Backing Beans, Action Classes, and Action Mapping and Application facades and hibernate classes to retrieve and submit using the JSF Framework.  • Performed system analysis and design using OOA/OOD and UML diagrams with Rational Rose and Visio.  • Designed and developed a web-based client using Servlets, JSP, Tag Libraries, Java Script, HTML and XML using Spring Framework.  • Design and implement web services.  • Created backend XML and Web Services on existing business logic for the new PLUS product to consume  • Wrote CSS pages in top down approach.  • Used XML parsing techniques for data handling and JavaScript front-end pages.  • Used Hibernate as the ORM tool to communicate with the database and developed Persistence layer using Hibernate using stateless session beans incorporating session façade design pattern.  • Involved in coding for the presentation layer using AJAX, XML, XSLT and JavaScript and worked using MVC pattern.  • Involved in writing session beans, message driven beans and hibernate mapping files  • Configured JMS and Hibernate on WebLogic Server in Eclipse environment.  • Used PL/SQL tables to process huge volume of data and used BULK collect and BULK bind for mass update as performance improvement process.  • Developed scenarios for unit and Integration testing to ensure that all the components working correctly when integrated.  • Used SOAP Technology for exchanging the XML application using HTTP.  • Involved in writing JavaScripts for building the web application. Developed WSDL for implementing web services. Used SVN for version control of the code and configuration files.  Environment: JavaScript, CSS, HTML, DHTML, XML, Struts, JSP, JBoss Drools Rule Engine, Servlet, JNDI, J2EE. Java Developer Transcend CS Inc - Dallas, TX October 2008 to June 2010 Responsibilities:  • Directly interacted with the customer to understand the requirements. Participated in high level and low level design of the system.  • Developed prototype projects for the other developers to start coding.  • Used Solr 5.3with SolrCloud as the Search Engine.  • Worked on the Publish component to read the source data, extract metadata and apply transformations to build Solr Documents, index them using SolrJ.  • Design and Developed DAO layer using Spring JDBCTemplate to perform basic CRUD and other complex database operations.  • Developed RESTful API for searching over the patents using SolrJ and SolrCloudServer. Zookeeper is used as the monitoring tool.  • Involved in designing of the schema.xml and solrconfig.xml.  • Worked on the sharding architecture.  • Supported both JSON and XML formats for the RESTful API. Used Jackson libraries for converting from POJOs to JSON and vice versa.  Environment: Java1.8, J2EE, JSP, Spring, Struts, EJB3, JMS, JNDI, Eclipse , Oracle10g, HTML, AJAX, XML, SOAP, REST, Web Services, Stax, ANT, JavaScript, WebLogic Application Server. Education Bachelor's Skills HTML (9 years), JAVASCRIPT (9 years), CSS (8 years), WEB SERVICES (7 years), JAVA (5 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Programming Languages Core java, J2EE, C/C++, Python    Operating Systems Windows-98/NT/2000, Linux 7, UNIX  Application Tools Netbeans6.9.1, Dreamweaver CS4, Service-Now (ITSM Tool)  Languages C,SQL, Java, XML, JavaScript, Ajax, HTML, CSS, Python, C Sharp  Databases Mysql5.0.1, DB2, Oracle11g , Microsoft SQL Server 2005  Networking LDAP, SSO, ITIL, Web Services