Sr.MuleSoft Developer Sr.MuleSoft <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr.MuleSoft Developer Denver, CO PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY:  • 9+ years of experience in Software Development with proficiency in designing & developing Enterprise-based, EAI and Web-based applications using Mule ESB, Java/J2EE technologies. Around on Mule ESB Enterprise edition.  • Experience in full life cycle software development process (SDLC) including system analysis, technical design documentation, coding, testing, and performance optimization, delivering workshops / trainings, deploying applications and providing Go-Live support.  • Experience in developing RESTful and SOAP web services in Mule ESB based on SOA architecture.  • Strong application integration experience using Mule ESB with connectors, transformations, Routing, Active MQ, JMS and Rabbit MQ.  • Widely experienced with Mule ESB in designing and implementing core platform components for API/Services Gateway as well as other technological cross-cutting capabilities and a contributor to Mule ESB open source.  • Hugely experienced in using MuleSoft Studio that integrates APIs, databases and SaaS applications and deployed Mule Soft applications to Cloud Hub and on-premise servers.  • Participated in deployment of Mule ESB applications using Cloud Hub and Strong experience in Integration using Mule ESB in integrating various third-party solutions.  • Hands on experience in Mule Soft Expression Language (MEL) to access payload data, properties and variable of Mule Message Flow.  • Mule ESB experience in implementing Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA) and Enterprise Application Integration (EAI) using Mule Server 3.x and 4.x.  • Extensively worked on Any Point Studio and Mule Any Point Platform and used it to interface application services by utilizing message routing, data transformation and service creation utilities.  • Utilized MuleSoft features like Data weave, API designer and various connectors to ensure robust and loosely coupled integration layer every time.  • Extensively worked on both Enterprise and Community edition of MULE ESB. Have an experience working MULE API manager and RAML.  • Knowledge of Oracle ADF Framework to develop web applications. Work experience in implementing ESB Integration Services using MuleSoft ESB.  • Created Mule ESB based tooling suite for handling message transitioning, validation, enrichment and routing to upstream and downstream entity data consumers.  • Immensely experienced in writing SQL Queries, Oracle PL/SQL, JDBA and JPA along with good knowledge on NoSQL and Mongo DB.  • Field experience with Junit and Log4j in developing test cases and determining application functionality.  • Involved in unit testing and writing the MUnit Test cases for the mule flows.  • Worked on implementation of the version control software CVS, VSS, SVN, GIT and Clear case.  • Good communications skills, quick learner, bi-lingual, self-motivated also excellent customer relations in collecting, and analyzing user requirements towards achieving goals set by the team. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr.MuleSoft Developer Metro Systems Inc, - Denver, CO April 2018 to Present Metro Systems Inc, Denver, CO                                                                                                         Apr 2018 to Till Now  Sr.MuleSoft  Developer     Responsibilities:  ·        Architected Integrations using Mule Soft ESB environments for both on premise and Cloud hub environments.  • Working on the version mule 4.  • Creating API lead connectivity and deploy in the on-prem environments and cloud hub.  • Creating System API’s , Processing API’s and experience API’s.  • Inserting and updating data in to the salesforce by using batch integrations.  • Followed the guidelines of Agile methodologies of SDLC for project management.  ·        Utilized partner WSDL for ESB to SAP integrations.   ·        Worked on preparing the technical specification documents (TSD'S) for all the services that is to be implemented.  ·        Developed the integration workflows using Mule Soft ESB and Spring Frameworks.  ·        Configured different Mule connectors like HTTP, Database and SAP.   ·        Utilized various connectors such as Sale force, FTP, HTTP, File, SMTP, SFTP and Database in different workflows.  ·        Designed and developed enterprise services using RAML and REST based APIs  ·        Used various transformers in Mule ESB based on use case and had implemented the custom transformations.  ·        Developed the flows orchestrations for integrating the components written on top of different internal platforms using Mule ESB and Active MQ.  ·        Worked on SOAP & REST based Web services for Mule ESB flows.  ·        Have written batch jobs to run at specific schedule times.  ·        Involved in developing interfaces between SAP, Sales Force, REST and SOAP web-services.  ·        Have an experience working MULE API manager and RAML.   ·        Done transformations using Data Weave.  ·        Implemented RAML files for different entity creations and respective associations.  ·        Experience with Mule administration, configuration and tuning. Deployed Mule applications through MMC and managed the server deployments.  ·        Experience with Mule Soft MMC and Enterprise release capabilities.  ·        Coordinated with larger projects involving multiple groups in different locations, examinations centers and the international courses.  ·        Created http inbound & outbound flows, routing, orchestration, transformations and Security of MULE ESB application using OAuth.  ·        Salesforce integration and along with different applications such as Trumba (Event planner) and the databases.  ·        Used Maven to build the applications using dependencies.  ·        Used Git as a version and source controlling tool and deployed the application on premises as well as on Cloud Hub.  ·        Involved in creating MUNIT test cases and ran the TEST SUITE.    Environment: Java&Jdk 1.8, mule soft 4.1.3EE, MUNIT, Any point studio, Oracle, SOAP, REST, AWS, Active MQ, RAML, , Maven, Jenkins, Log4j, GitHub, OAuth. Mule ESB Developer Mag Mutual, - Atlanta, GA June 2017 to March 2018 Mag Mutual, Atlanta, GA                                                                                                                    Jun 2017 to Mar 2018  Mule ESB Developer                                                      Responsibilities:  ·        Involved in daily Agile SCRUM meetings and weekly SPRINT meetings. Regularly participated in the code reviews with team members to improvise on the quality of the project deliverables.  ·        Integration of Mule ESB system while utilizing MQ Series, Http, File system and SFTP transports. Implemented data transformation using XPATH, XSLT, Data Weave, custom java classes.  ·        Created MULE ESB artifact and configured the MULE configurations files and deployed.  ·        Utilized custom logging framework for Mule ESB application.  ·        Developed RESTful/SOAP web services in Mule ESB based on SOA architecture.  ·        Experience in MuleSoft Anypoint API platform on designing and implementing Mule APIs.  ·        Strong knowledge and hands on experience in documenting and designing REST API’s using RAML.  ·        Done with transformers, exception handling, testing & Security of Mule ESB endpoint through OAuth.  ·        Have written MUnit test cases to validate the Mule flows. And implemented asynchronous messaging using ActiveMQ.  ·         Tightly integrated applications using MULE ESB.  ·        Mule ESB 3.7.3 and updated all the dependencies.  ·        Migrated deprecated Data Mapper mapping to Data Weave in MULE ESB.  ·        Developed Mule ESB projects for services with synchronous & asynchronous Mule flows.  ·        Implemented integration flows using Mule Anypoint Studio to connect to REST, SOAP service, Oracle Database, and Active MQ broker.  ·        Design and Implemented XML/WSDL/SOAP/RESTFUL Web Services to provide the interface to the various clients running on both Java and Non Java applications.   ·        Extensively used Mule components that include File, SMTP, FTP, SFTP, JDBC Connector, and Transaction Manager.  ·        Design and document REST/HTTP, SOAP APIs, including JSON data formats and API versioning strategy.   ·        Involved in creating http inbound & outbound flows, custom java and XSLT transformers and Security of Mule endpoint through WSSR.  ·        Deployed Mule ESB applications into MMC (Mule Management Console).   ·        Architected Integrations using Mule ESB environments for both on premise and cloud environments.   ·        Used Log4J components for logging. Perform daily monitoring of log files and resolve issues.  ·        Involved in code review, tested Components using JUNIT & MUnit and Mockito during the development.   ·        Involved in installing and configuring Eclipse IDE, Ant, Web Logic and Maven for development.      Environment: Java1.7/J2EE, MuleSoft ESB 3.5.3/3.7.3, AnyPoint Studio, ActiveMQ, RabbitMQ, Apache-Maven, Cloudhub, RabbitMQ, Nexus, Putty,UML, Web Services, XML, XSD, XSLT, JPA, RAML, Oracle 11g, Eclipse IDE, log4j, CVS, Rational Rose, JUnit, Maven. Mule Developer USG Corp, - Chicago, IL November 2015 to May 2017 USG Corp, Chicago, IL                                                                                                                         Nov 2015 to May 2017  Mule Developer            Responsibilities:  ·        Followed the Agile Methodology for Scrum Process for the Project Implementation of the back logs.   ·        Involved in Business requirements gathering and analysis by interacting with the customer.   ·        Used JIRA to report the hours and issues that are related to the project.   ·        Used Mule ESB in designing the application as a middleware between the third-party system and the customer side system.   ·        Configuring the Mule process for fetching the data from topic and makes web service calls to the middle tier Mule ESB for processing.   ·        Utilized partner WSDL for ESB to Salesforce & SAP integrations.   ·        Used Force.com extensively for development, customization to integrate NetSuite accounts payables using Salesforce connector.   ·        Configured different Mule connectors like HTTP, Database, NetSuite and Salesforce.   ·        Developed Mule ESB projects for the services with synchronous and asynchronous mule flows.   ·        Developed Mule flows to integrate Data from various sources into Database, from ActiveMQ topics and queues, some transformations were also done at the integration layer.   ·        Developed service interfaces to core services & provisioning services using Mule ESB 3.6   ·        Migrated deprecated Data Mapper mapping to Data Weave in MULE ESB.   ·        Developed RESTful/SOAP web services in Mule ESB based on SOA architecture.   ·        Utilized custom logging framework for Mule ESB application.   ·        Deployed Mule ESB applications into MMC (Mule Management Console).  ·        Involved in developing interfaces between SAP, Sales Force, REST and SOAP web-services.   ·        Involved in integrating of different systems that includes Data Base, Salesforce, SAP and HL7.   ·        Worked closely with functional leads/PMs to understand the partner integration requirements.   ·        Used Hibernate for implementing the persistence mechanism in the application.   ·        Involved in writing the Message Driven Beans.   ·        Created Http inbound and outbound flows and tested it working functionality.   ·        Performed synchronization of data bi-directionally between salesforce and database.   ·        Used Database Connectors to connect with respective systems using Mule ESB.   ·        Integrated other sub-systems through JMS, MQSeries.   ·        Worked on Maven for getting latest jar files including commoncollection.jar, commonlogging.jar, spring, and Hibernate from Apache.   ·        Consumed Web Services for transferring data between different applications.   ·        Involved in performing Integration testing of the whole application.  Environment: Anypoint Studio, Mule ESB 3.5, Mule Management Console, RAML, ActiveMQ, Apache-Maven 3.3.3, Nexus, FileZilla 3.14.1, Putty, Salesforce, GIT, Oracle, JIRA, Confluence. Java Developer Oracle, - Minneapolis, MN May 2013 to October 2015 Oracle, Minneapolis, MN                                                                                                                    May 2013 to Oct 2015  Java Developer     Responsibilities:  ·        Involved in the analysis, design and implementation of business user requirements. Actively participated in the daily SCRUM meetings to produce quality deliverables within time.   ·        Expertise in designing web based Internet/Intranet, ESB, SOA and Application Development using Java/J2EE.  ·        Developed static and dynamic Web Pages using JSP, HTML, JavaScript and CSS.  ·        Developed and worked with several XSD schemas for XML validations.   ·        Extensively used JavaScript to make the web page more interactive.  ·        Developed web services to allow communication between applications through SOAP Over HTTP using Apache Axis.   ·        Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, and XML.   ·        Wrote SQL queries, stored procedures, modifications to existing database structure as required for addition of new features using Oracle database.   ·        Used Java Message Service (JMS) API to create, send, receive, and read messages. Developed SOAP web services to be shared with CRM to interact with Prime Biller.  ·        Used Log4J to validate functionalities and worked in Test Driven Development (JUnit) for unit testing.   ·        Used code version controlling using SVN.  ·        Developed the Java Code using Eclipse as IDE.  Environment: HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, JSP, XML, JDBC, AJAX, JMS, SOAP, Oracle, Log4J, SVN, Eclipse. Java Developer Boeing, Everett, - San Francisco, CA April 2011 to March 2013 Boeing, Everett, San Francisco ,CA                                                                                          Mar 2011 to Apr 2013                                                 Java Developer    Responsibilities:  ·        Worked with business teams on requirements analysis building use cases and estimations. Generating high level and low level design documentation.  ·        Developed Java/J2EE code, business logic using Spring, Hibernate framework and OOP concepts, involved in Peer code reviews.  ·        Created WSDL & Generated data objects using WSDL, Java, Spring, JAX-WS, Axis, apache CXF and developed mapping code for several Web Services interfaces for various profile management endpoints.  ·        Developed Java multi threaded batch offline bulk upload tool, web applications using Spring, Servlets and UI layer using JSPs, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Angular JS.  ·        Worked on implementation of new & complex implementations, critical/quick deliveries.  ·        Developed and build Ant scripts, Maven for packaging the application code.  ·        Developed database scripts and procedures using PL/SQL.  ·        Deployed code on Tomcat web application server.  ·        Validated requirement deliverables, unit testing using SOAP UI, set up & executed system endurance, performance tests using JMeter.  ·        Set up build automation & deployment to DEV,QA,PRD servers using TeamCity continuous integration platform. Built Regression suits using SOAP UI for automated regression test on CI platform.  ·        Coordinated with Architects and Security teams on defining SOAP, RESTful web services architecture and generating/managing artifacts documentation Confluence.  ·        Performed use case analysis and design SOAP, REST APIs on social integration of web and native mobile applications implementing oAuth (Ping Federate).  ·        Creating/Managing release plan, sprint deliveries, responsible for version control (SVN) and configuration of the project, keeping track of project activities - Sprint execution, planning in JIRA.  ·        Coordinated with cross functional teams on resolving integrations issues, bug fixes, RCAs, RFCs.  ·        Worked in Agile model, Conducting Daily Scrum/Stand ups, Backlog Grooming, Sprint Planning Sprint Review,  ·        Sprint Retrospective Meeting, supporting Product owner in refining and grooming product backlog.  ·        Lead development team, Motivating team and helping them work in self organized manner.  ·        Acted as Liaison Between Product Owner and Development Team, resolving impediments in order to achieve Sprint Goals.  ·        Worked as SME and SPOC for the project within Adidas CRM area.  ·        Managing knowledge sharing & resolved problems on critical issues in live system.  ·        Master Data management , Data schemas, web forms configuration , workflow /campaign maintenance and set up using Adobe Campaign (formerly Neolane)    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate,core java, JSP, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, Subversion(SVN), SVN, Oracle PL/SQL,Jms, WSDL, SOAP, XML, JAX-WS, RESTful, JSON, TomCat, Eclipse, SQL Developer, Toad for Oracle, MS Visio, JIRA, Confluence, Maven, Ant, Beyond Compare, Team City (CI), JUnit, SOAP UI, Apache Jmeter, Unix.   J2EE Developer CVS Caremark., - Irving, TX June 2009 to February 2011 CVS Caremark., Irving, TX                                                                                                                 Jun 2009 to Feb 2011  J2EE Developer    Responsibilities:  ·        Responsible for analysis, design, development and integration of UI components with backend using J2EE technologies such as Servlets, Java Beans and JSP.  ·        Using Technologies like SOAP, WSDL and UDDI based Web Services.  ·        Developed Hibernate 3.0 in Data Access Layer to access and update information in the database.  ·        Designed the workflow, system architecture, drawing sequence diagrams, activity diagrams, class diagrams, HTML pages, database schema and tables.  ·        Developed a UI component using Angular JS.  ·        Writing JSP's for user interfaces, JSP's uses Java Beans objects to produce responses.  ·        Involved in Tomcat server configuration for deployment.   ·        Used JUnit framework for Unit testing of application.  ·        Used log4j 1.2 to log different types of messages to write on to the proprietary log model.  ·        Use Case, Class, Sequence diagrams and also in complete development, testing and maintenance process of the application .  ·        Store persistent JMS messages or temporarily store messages sent using the store-and-forward feature.   ·        Involved in testing the XML files and checked whether data is parsed and loaded to staging tables.   ·        Store persistent JMS messages or temporarily store messages sent using the store-and-forward feature.   ·        Used Hibernate to persist and retrieve data from database.      Environment: Java, J2EE, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, JSP, Servlet, XML Schema, SOAP, Javascript, PL/SQL, DHTML, XHTML, Ant 1.6, Log4j, JUnit, Weblogic10.0, Oracle 11g, Wsdl, IBM Rational rose, Maven, Eclipse, XSD.                                    Sr.MuleSoft Developer Sr.MuleSoft Developer Education Bachelor's .... Bachelor's ..... ....