Salesforce Admin/ Developer Salesforce Admin/<span class="hl">Developer</span> Salesforce Admin/ Developer - UnitedHealth Group Minnetonka, MN • Around 8+ years of IT experience in various stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) which includes over  • 7+ years of experience as SFDC Administrator, Developer on Salesforce.com platform.  • Administration, Configuration, Implementation and support experience on Salesforce.com platform.  • Experienced in Salesforce.com CRM integration, developing and deploying custom integration solutions  • Implementation & Integration experience on Salesforce.com using Apex Language (Classes, Controllers & Triggers), Web Services, Visual Force Pages, Components, Tabs, Custom Objects, S-Controls, Reports and Dashboards.  • Experience in SFDC development using Apex Language, Apex Trigger, Apex Classes, Apex Test Methods, Apex Web Service, Visualforce Pages, Visualforce Components & Controllers, Visual Force, Force.com IDE, Dashboards.  • Hands on Experience of Salesforce Web Services API like REST, Bulk & SOAP.  • Experience in Workbench to fetch data using SOQL queries.  • Excellent experience working with salesforce.com sandbox, production environments, and Force.com Plug-in environment using Eclipse IDE.  • Experience in using CRM fusion demand tools for importing huge amount of data into salesforce.  • Worked with Jitterbit tools and Heroku connect to migrate data and metadata from one organization to another organization.  • Experience in writing Test Classes to maximize test code coverage for production deployment.  • Designed various Custom Objects, Custom Fields, Role Based Page Layouts, Custom Tabs, Sales, Services, Custom Reports as per the client requirements.  • Experience with live agent chat UI to allow customers to chat with sales agents.  • Expertise in Apex to implement the complex business logic with in Governor Limits.  • Experienced Azure and integrations with Salesforce.  • Implemented various advanced fields like Picklist, Custom Formula Fields, Field Dependencies, Validation Rules, Work Flows, and Approval Processes for automated alerts, field updates, entity relationships and Email generation according to application requirements.  • In Aura used Apex Class as attribute type to pass data in specific format.  • Used Metadata API to retrieve, deploy, create, update or delete customization information, such as custom object definitions and page layouts, for your organization. This API is intended for managing customizations and for building tools that can manage the metadata model, not the data itself.  • Proficiency in SFDC Administrative tasks like creating Profiles, Roles, Users, Page Layouts, Email Services, Approvals, Workflows, Reports, Dashboards, Cloud marketing, Tasks and Events.  • Used Metadata to move data from one system to another, such as when we are copying components from one Force.com organization to another, transferring metadata from a local development system to your Force.com organization, pushing changes from sandbox to production Force.com orgs.  • Experience using Visualforce in Lightning experience. Worked on security authentication, digital signature.  • Proficient in creating the Lightning Component Tabs and Visual Force Tabs.  • Good experience in developing Salesforce Lightning Apps, Components, Controllers and Events.  • Worked with Remote objects for front end validation to reduce load on the application backend.  • Experience in migrating data from legacy systems to Salesforce using Apex Data Loader.  • Strong knowledge of Object Oriented Programming and Object-Oriented Design  • Expert in capturing, analyzing, documenting and realizing the business requirements to design on salesforce.com platform by designing the required entities like custom objects, creating the relationships/ junction objects like Master-Child, lookups, Entity Relationship data model, SOSL, SOQL, Pages, Classes, Interfaces, Workflows & Workflow rules, triggers, Email alerts and business logic. Experience in configuring.  • Capable of processing large sets of structured, semi-structured and unstructured data and supporting systems application architecture.  • Able to assess business rules, collaborate with stakeholders and perform source-to-target data mapping, design and review. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Salesforce Admin/ Developer UnitedHealth Group - Minnetonka, MN January 2016 to Present • Interacted with various business team members to gather the requirements and documented the requirements.  • Created Custom Objects and fields for transactional and contractual information.  • Designed and deployed Custom tabs, validation rules, Approval Processes and Auto-Response Rules for automating business logic.  • Administrate and support Sales Cloud instances by monitoring ETL tool (Jitterbit) which synchronizes & updates daily ERP data from Microsoft Dynamics (AX).  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, email alerts, and field updates.  • Implemented pick lists, dependent pick lists, lookups, master detail relationships, validation and formula fields to the custom objects.  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on a record detail and edit pages.  • Created various Reports and Report Folders to assist managers to better utilize Salesforce as a sales tool and configured various Reports and for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  • Added geographical radius search to API's.  • Developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Used Sforce.one for managing navigation and built custom Visual Force components with J Query Mobile and AngularJS.  •Extensively worked on Case, Account, Opportunity and Invoice Management.  • Implemented Approval Processes and created many Workflows to accomplish the tasks.  •Worked on Data Migration to import legacy CRM data using Data Loader.  •Involved in integrating Salesforce with legacy systems like SAP using Informatica cloud.  •Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  •Actively participated in testing of the application by writing test classes.    Technologies: SaleForce.com platform, Service cloud, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Apex Language, Data Loader, HTML, Java Script, Eclipse IDE, Subversion. Sr. Salesforce Admin/ Developer Capital One - Richmond, VA March 2014 to December 2015 • Engaged with the sales team and business analysts to gather business and user requirements.  • Provide solution design to implement the requested functionality in salesforce.  • Configure salesforce objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Opportunities, Reports and Dashboards.  • Used Tabular, Summary and Matrix reports to create Standard reports and Custom reports.  • Designed and modified Approval processes and created Approval steps which used email alerts and field updates.  • Worked with Approval processes that used Email Approval steps.  •Created Many-to-Many relationships and created Junction objects to implement Roll-up Summary fields to aggregate data from child records on the parent.  • Modified Business Requirement Document, Identified process repetitions, bottlenecks and infrequent routes  • Created Environment setup plan, Migration document and checklist  • Maintained and populated configuration workbook  • Configured out of the box reports and dashboards as well as custom reports  • Developed and deployed workflows, Reports, Approval processes using salesforce.com platform.  • Developed reports, dashboards, and processes to continuously monitor data quality and integrity.  • Created and used Email templates in HTML, Custom and Visualforce format.  • Created Workflow Rules to automate Tasks, Email Alerts, Field Updates, time-dependent actions.  • Created email templates and inbound emails using Visualforce for the clients and customers.  • Maintained data cleanliness and accuracy by adding custom validation rules, custom formulas, reports and dashboards.  • Used the Salesforce Object Search Language (SOSL) to construct text searches in the search() call, in Apex statements, in Visualforce controllers and getter methods, or the Schema Explorer of the Eclipse Toolkit.  • Developed Apex Classes, Controller and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Maintaining test coverage for all the classes and triggers and supporting deployment activities.  • Used Change Sets to deploy code from sandbox to sandbox and production environment.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, time triggered tasks, email alerts, field updates to implement business logic.  • Hands on experience on Salesforce Lightning for Customizing Reports and Dashboards for business use  • Customized existing Visual Force to align with Salesforce new Lightning UI experience  • Configured various Custom Reports and Report Folders for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  • Experience working with Classic and Lightning Salesforce1 mobile application development and customizations.  • Created Lightning components, Apps, Pages and Configured Salesforce Lightning SF1 Mobile App.  • Customized existing Visual Force to align with Salesforce new Lightning UI experience.  • Used contextual hovers, dashboard and opportunities in the lightning version.  • Responsible for all the activities related to configuring Data Loader, uploading data in CSV files into salesforce.com, checking for the correctness of the data.    Technologies: Saleforce.com platform, Force.com ide, Lightning components, Apex, Visualforce (Pages, Component & Controllers), Pages, Data Loader, HTML, Inside sales telephonic plug-in, Doc E-sign, Java Script, Eclipse IDE Plug-in. SFDC Admin/ Developer Verisk Analytics - Chicago, IL March 2012 to February 2014 • Design, build, configuration and documentation of technical components for the CRM Salesforce Cloud implementation.  • Conduct or participate in prototyping sessions with business and IT resources to ensure clarity of requirements.  • Design conversion including data mapping from CRM On Demand and Siebel to Salesforce.  • Worked with VISA mobility team on Sale mobility to deliver against business requirements.  • Analyze business requirement, identify risks, and collaborate on solution to meet business needs and Coordinate with other VISA technical teams to implement: engineering, database, network, security, QA.  • Estimate work effort and staffing needs, develop technical execution plan, track progress against milestones, and drive results in partnership with PM, and other team members.  • Evaluated 3rd party tools for security, scalability and fit.  • Involved in field & page layout customization for the standard objects like Account, Contact, and Leads.  • Understand, plan, and execute with a strong focus on balancing risks and value. Identify risks proactively and develop mitigations.  • Used Data Loader for insert, update, and bulk import or export of data from SalesForce.com sObjects. Used it to read, extract, and load data from comma separated values (CSV) files. Defined lookup and master-detail relationships on the objects and created junction objects.  • Involved in the Data Transformation and Data Cleansing activities while transferring the data to the external systems.  • Working with internal staff, and system integrators manage the delivery of required solution components to ensure quality and timeliness of work.  • Communicate effectively and proactively with-IT stakeholders and articulate ideas and recommendations clearly.  Technologies: Salesforce.com platform, Data Loader, Apex Classes, Controllers, Triggers, Visualforce, Email Services, Security Controls, Sandbox data loading, Workflow & Approvals, Custom Reports, and Dashboards leveraging an Agile methodology. Salesforce Developer/Administrator T-Mobile - Bellevue, WA October 2010 to February 2012 • Interacted with Business users for requirements gathering, analysis and development.  • Worked on various Salesforce.com Standard Objects including Accounts, Contacts, Reports, Dashboards, Events and Tasks.  • Developed various Apex classes, Controller classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Developed various Custom Objects, Formula fields, Master-Detail, Lookup relationships, Tabs, validation rules.  • Worked as an architect to finalize architecture specifications, and creates design as it relates to the customization and/or integration of a CRM system (Sales, Services and Repair Processing).  • Developed Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) for creating effects in Visual force pages.  • Created Workflow rules and defined related tasks, email alerts, and field updates.  • Implemented Pick lists, Dependent Pick lists, lookups, Master detail relationships, validation and formula fields to the custom objects.  • Implementation of Data Loader for loading the data.  • Developed business documents for Salesforce.com Custom objects.  • Worked on different portals like Self Service Portal, Partner Portal and Customer Portal.  • Implemented Salesforce.com web services client using Sales force web services API, Java, XML and partner WSDL.  • Developed several Custom Reports & Dashboards to better assist managers and report folder to provide report accessibility to appropriate personnel.  • Provided the training to Business users about the system.  • Implemented Pick lists, Dependent Pick lists, lookups, Master detail relationships, validation and formula fields to the custom objects.  Technologies: Saleforce.com CRM, Force.com platform, Apex Classes, Chatter, Visual Force Pages, Controllers, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Security Controls, Eclipse IDE, WSDL, Windows. Java Developer VNS IT Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2009 to August 2010 Hyderabad, India  • Developed the GUI of the system using HTML, JSP and client-side validations was done using JavaScript. Built and accessed the database using JDBC for ORACLE9g.  • Struts Framework in conjunction with JSP and Tag Libraries used in developing user Interface for administrative screens and user interaction screens.  • Developed Session Beans for necessary transactions like fetching the data required, updating the customer information  • Worked on coding of Servlets and EJB communication  • Developed Servlets to process the requests, transfer the control according to the request to corresponding Session Beans, JSP pages.  • Developed Web logic container security components for adding vendor specific Security Realm to application using JMX.  • Java Servlets and JSP pages were deployed on the Web Logic Application Server for retrieving user information and posting related data.  • Worked on database layer for updating and retrieval operations of data from oracle database.  Environment: Java, JEE, Struts Framework, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, HTML, CSS, PL/SQL, Oracle 9g, Eclipse, SQL Developer, OC4J application Server, MS-VSS (Version Control). Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Kakatiya University 2008 Skills APEX (7 years), LOADER (7 years), WORKFLOW (7 years), ECLIPSE (6 years), CRM (5 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Salesforce Technologies  Apex Language, Apex Classes, Apex Triggers, SOQL, SOSL, Visual Force (Pages, Components & Controllers), S-Controls, Apex Web Services, Workflow & Approvals, Dashboards, Report, Custom objects, SOSL, SOQL, Apex, Force.com    Salesforce Tools    Web Technologies    ETL Tools    Workbench, Eclipse, Force.com Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Force.com Explorer, Apex Data Loader, Force.com Platform, Heroku Connect    CSS, XML, HTML, JavaScript    Loader, Salesforce-to-Salesforce, Apex Explorer, CRM Fusion tools, Copardo Tools, Jitterbit.