Salesforce Developer/ Administrator Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span>/ Administrator Salesforce Developer/ Administrator - Entergy Dallas, TX • Around 8 years of IT experience with 6+ years of experience in Salesforce.com platform as Salesforce Developer and Administrator and 1+ year of experience as Java Developer.  • Experience of Salesforce CRM including Administration, Design, and Customization, Configurations, Implementation and Support of Salesforce CRM application based on Apex language and Force.com platform.  • Experienced in all phases of Software Development and Life Cycle (SDLC), quality management systems, AGILE methodologies, and project life cycle processes.  • Expertise on Apex Development in creating objects, Apex classes, Apex Triggers, Visual force, Force.com API  • Extensively worked on multiple complex Integrations and Data Migration between salesforce.com and legacy systems(CRM/Non CRM) by using Force.com data loader, web based import wizards, and experience on SOAP and REST, Tooling API's, Apex controllers, Web Services Endpoints, Metadata etc.  • Experience in integrating existing desktop and web based applications with legacy mainframe systems with interface between Salesforce and various applications.  • Expertise in Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Marketing Cloud/ExactTarget, Health Cloud Platforms.  • Proficient and knowledge on Salesforce1 mobile application and experience in Salesforce App Cloud in designing enterprise applications which combines Lightning App Builder and Lightning Components.  • Analyzed current strategies, recommended for efficiency improvement, coordinated and implemented the enhancements in Agile/Scrum mode.  • Extensive experience on various Salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Opportunities, Products, Leads, Campaigns, Reports and Dashboards.  • Designed and Deployed the custom objects, Custom tabs, Entity-Relationship data model, validation rules, Workflow rules, Auto-Response rules, Page layouts, Components, Visual Force Pages, Custom fields, Picklist, Workflow Alerts & Actions, Approval Processes. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Salesforce Developer/ Administrator Entergy - Dallas, TX March 2017 to Present Description: Entergy Corporation is an integrated energy company engaged in production and distribution operations. It strives to create sustainable value for customers, employees, and communities. It navigates through numerous transitions and delivers commitments to stakeholders. Developed Salesforce.com CRM instances and administered the maintenance. It integrated Salesforce CRM to manage their day-to-day activities.  Responsibilities  • Designed, and developed the new interface for implementing a better solution that replaced the old interface.  • Created Custom objects, validation rules, Custom tabs, Components, Visual force Pages to meet the application requirements.  • Worked on web services to integrate Salesforce using REST API calls.  • Worked with compatibility in a team to Gather, Analyze, Create technical, functional documents and System design.  • Developed and Customized User interface in Salesforce.com using Visual force, Apex controllers and Force.com IDE.  • Worked on Accounts, Opportunities, Quotes, and Orders and implemented the logic based on the business needs.  • Created Page layouts, Record Types, Profiles, Roles, Permission settings, Users, and Sharing settings.  • Created Multiple Sandboxes to migrate all the related Development, Customizations, and Configurations from one system to another system.  • Created Email Alerts, Email templates, Sharing Rules, Reports and Dashboards, Salesforce1 mobile.  • Used Inbound/Outbound change sets and Eclipse for deploying components from Sandbox to Production Environment.  • Migrated Data and associated the relationship for Standard as well as Custom objects using data loader, Import Wizard.  • Designed and developed Visual force pages and controllers.  • Implemented OAuth 2.0 for authentication to integrate the applications.  • Built apps visually with Lightning App Builder, Lightning Components.  • Maintained and created Workflow rules, validation rules, formula fields, escalation rules, auto-assignment rules, with regards to CPQ and pricing rules.  • Served as a marketing product expert and administrator of SFMC processes (manage subscriber-level data).  • Setup, maintained, and optimized Email marketing campaign utilizing Exact Target/Salesforce Marketing Cloud.  • Involved and implemented Sales cloud, configuration, dealers, contacts, workflows, validations reports, dashboards and dealer grouping.  • Experience with Service cloud including Service console, case feed, knowledge base and entitlements.  • Used SOQL & SOSL for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Created and deployed several Reports using Salesforce.com platform.  • Defined lookup and master-detail relationships on the objects and established connectivity among objects.  • Deployed from DEV to QA, UAT, Staging, and Production using Force.com.  • Written Apex Test classes to achieve above 90% code coverage to test apex methods.  Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visual force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Apex Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Sales Cloud, marketing cloud, Journey builder, service cloud, REST, Eclipse IDE Plug-in. Salesforce Developer/Administrator Citrix Systems Inc - Fort Lauderdale, FL December 2014 to February 2017 Description: Citrix Systems, Inc. is an American software and cloud computing company which offers server, application and desktop virtualization, networking, and software as a service. The products are focused on collaboration and communication which is done through Sales and Service cloud.  Responsibilities  • Developed, enhanced, and maintained existing Salesforce customized software solutions.  • Administered, maintained, and enhanced Salesforce implementation for 2500+ salesforce licenses.  • Involved in defining solutions based on the requirements from various Business Functional units such as Sales, Services, Marketing, Partner  • Developed Custom objects, Custom fields, Tabs, Record types as per the requirements of the organization.  • Involved in areas such as Lead Management, Campaign Management, Content Management, Customer Service/Case Management, and Dashboard/Report development.  • Automated business logics in the organization using validation rules, workflow rules and apex triggers.  • Created and configured Page layouts and search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists and other components in detail and edit pages of records.  • Developed integration processes using Salesforce.com's Web Services(using callouts), API and third-party integration tools (Apex Data Loader, Pervasive, etc)  • Involved in Data Migration and Integration using SSO and Webservices.  • Implemented Picklists, Dependent picklists, lookup relationship, master detail relationships, validation and formula fields to the custom objects.  • Wrote SOSL and SOQL queries with consideration to Governor Limits to export bulk data and data modifications.  • Managed data transfer/mapping between Salesforce.com and other applications databases.  • Worked with the Integration Team during data loads to improve the performance of data loads.  • Understood Logs, Alerts and troubleshooted any and all problems related to the Salesforce.com solution.  • Enhanced the security by configuring profiles, organization wide defaults, sharing rules and roles.  • Developed Apex Controllers and Extensions along with Visualforce pages for better UI and functioning.  • Developed and deployed Apex Classes, Batch Apex and Scheduled Apex for various functional needs in the application.  • Created various Reports (summary reports, matrix reports, pie charts, dashboards and graphics) and Report Folders to better utilize Salesforce as a sales tool and configured various Reports for different user profiles based on the needs of the organization.  • Supported off-shore staff of 6 members for incident fixes and enhancements  • Participated in reviews of new Salesforce features and capabilities introduced every quarter to see how we can take full advantage of the Salesforce.com Platform.  • Created Simple Process flow diagrams to document the visio flows of the requirements and worked on the requirements.  • Created/setup Sandbox for testing and migrated code from development org to other sandbox and production orgs, and vice versa using change sets, Flosum (an App Exchange app)  • Written well-commented code and adhere to naming conventions and Submitted code for review, if required, and adhere to the standards established by team leads.  • Analyzed all the production issues and prioritized the issues based on the severity/user impact and requested business approvals if a hot fix is required.  • Supported QA and UAT for enhancements and productions fixes  • Effectively communicated with other development team members and demonstrated the ability to deliver quality results in a timely fashion.  Environment: SalesForce.com Platform, S-Controls, Salesforce.com Custom Objects, HTML, Java Script, Workflows, Reports, Force.com Eclipse Plug-in, SalesForce.com sandbox. MS SQLServer2000, MS Access, Query Analyzer, SOQL, Data Loader, Windows 2000 Server, Apex, Visual force, Apex Classes, Apex triggers, Visual force, Pages, Batch Apex, Schedule Apex, Approvals, Case Management, Automation. Salesforce Developer/ Administrator Inovalon - Bowie, MD January 2013 to November 2014 Description: Inovalon is a cloud based analytics platform company empowering the healthcare ecosystem's ability to transform volume to value. Delivering real-time EHR interoperability data integration to enable clinical insight, quality, outcomes and financial performance and leveraging industry leading resources from white papers to webinars. Implemented Salesforce community to ease the day-to-day experience of worldwide users/clients of Inovalon and process the data in Salesforce objects.  Responsibilities  • Discussed and analyzed the requirements with the business team and converted the requirements into detailed technical requirements.  • Used Force.com Developer toolkit including Apex Classes, Apex Triggers and Visualforce pages to develop custom business logic.  • Implemented Security Settings, configured profiles and permission sets.  • Experience working in service cloud, supporting cases, developed workflows and triggers for automated case resolutions.  • Implemented Apex Data loader "Command Line Interface (CLI)" to automate the data loading process for the sand box refresh activity.  • Created and used Email templates in HTML and Visualforce.  • Used SOQL & SOSL for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Responsible for setting up web service integrations.  • Used Health cloud packages to convert lead records to patient records and also installed risk stratification package to make admins view dashboards of at-risk patients.  • Mapped clinical data from EHR to health cloud objects and fields that hold patient and engagement data.  • Imported Historical medical information associated with patients to health cloud through custom integration and created patient job flow.  • Asssited with use case and test case development and worked with project manager and/or business manager to test and accept new functionality.  • Worked closely with sales team and business analysts and performed detailed analysis of business and user requirements, designed the solution by customizing various standard objects of Salesforce.com (SFDC).  • Used the sandbox for testing and migration of code to the deployment instance after testing.  Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex, Visualforce, Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, SOQL, SOSL, Email Services, Sales cloud, Service cloud, Health cloud, Security Controls, Visualforce Controllers, Sandbox data loading, Data Loader. Salesforce Developer/Administrator ON Semiconductor Corporation - Phoenix, AZ October 2011 to December 2012 Description: ON Semiconductor products include power, discrete, logic, custom devices for automotive, communications, computing, and consumer, industrial, medical, military and power applications. Maintained processes to accommodate customer needs, and support long-term relationships and quality products. CRM Uplift project is to migrate legacy CRM system for variable products into Salesforce.com. In this project, developed an application to automate internal activities and integrate Salesforce for content management.  Responsibilities  • Integrated with various teams such as marketing, production team and users to gather business requirements and documented them accordingly.  • Participated in the App Customization and application setup Activities on Salesforce.com to meet the functional and operational needs of the organization.  • Implemented Salesforce Automation (SFA) for Campaign Management, Lead Management.  • Design Entity-Relationship models for various custom objects and used Visualforce pages to design the interface Components.  • Implemented various advanced configurations like Visual Flows, Process builder  • Worked on the Page Layouts, enhanced search results by modifying Search Layouts, provide Custom links, related lists and other components on Record detail pages and Edit pages.  • Created workflow rules on Leads, Accounts, Cases and Contacts to automate the Email Alerts, Field Updates and sent Outbound, Inbound messages to external partners, defined Time Triggered Tasks.  • Implemented Approval processes, created Email Templates and Approval Page Layouts and tested using Sandbox.  • Responsible for writing SOQL & SOSL queries for data management needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Managed critical information on the profile users by creating Roles, Role Hierarchies, sharing rules and implementing Object and Field Level Security.  • Developed various Apex Test Classes, batch classes, Controllers and Triggers in Visual force, Force.com and used Migration Tool.  • Provided enhancements to the Salesforce deliverables by involving in User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and working the internal areas within the organization.  Environment: Security Management, Force.com Eclipse IDE, Visualforce, Data loading, S-Controls, Inbound and Outbound messages, SOQL, SOSL Queries. Java Developer Generic Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2009 to September 2011 Project: The community web portal is designed to function as a shared care coordinating system for health plans and interdisciplinary care teams.  Responsibilities  • Developed the presentation Tier using Java Script and HTML.  • Effectively developed Action classes, Action forms and other configuration files like struts-config.xml, web.xml  • Developed the application on NetBeans and deployed application on WebLogic server  • Used Eclipse IDE in order to develop and deploy the application code.  • Involved in Unit Testing, User Acceptance Testing and Bug Fixing.  Environment: Java Script, HTML, JDBC, Web Logic, Eclipse, MySQL. Education Bachelor's Skills TESTING (7 years), ECLIPSE (7 years), APEX (6 years), FORCE.COM (6 years), WORKFLOW (6 years), Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visual force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Apex Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Sales Cloud, marketing cloud, Journey builder, service cloud, REST, Eclipse IDE Plug-in (8 years), COM, Salesforce Admin, Salesforce, Visualforce Additional Information Technical Skills  Salesforce Technologies  Salesforce CRM, Salesforce SFA, Apex Language, Apex Scheduler, Apex Classes/Controllers, Batch Apex, Apex Triggers, SOSL, SOQL, Visual force (pages, controllers & components), Lightning, S-Controls, Apex Web Services, Workflow & Approvals, Reports & Dashboards, Analytic Snapshots, Custom Objects, Change Sets, flosum    Salesforce Tools  Eclipse, Force.com Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Data Loader, Force.com platform (Sandbox, Production) and Sandbox loading & Testing, Force.com Migration Tool.    Languages Java, Apex  Web Technologies SOAP, REST, CSS, JavaScript, HTML  Databases & Office Tools Force.com DB MySQL, MS SQL Server, MySQL, MS Access, MS Office.  ETL/Integration Tools App Exchange, ETL Data Extraction, Workbench, Mobile App Development, Salesforce SDK  Platforms Windows NT/2000/XP/Vista/7, Windows Server 2000/2003/2008  Project Management Agile/Scrum, SDLC, waterfall