Sr. Salesforce Developer Sr. Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Salesforce Developer Los Angeles, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Salesforce Developer Denver City & County February 2016 to February 2018 Responsibilities  ? Lead developer & architect for all Salesforce related projects.  ? Design and development of City applications in Salesforce.  ? Developed and deployed a Hearings application for tracking Employee's appeal process using Apex, Conga Composer and Adobe sign.  ? Developed a solution for SMS-to-Case for the City's 311 agency.  ? Developed a scheduling application for the Denver Fire Department.  ? Developed a streets maintenance app for Parks & Rec.  ? Developed a geolocation app for the Board of Adjustment & Zoning agency.  ? Provided user support and training for other applications developed by Vertiba and other AppExchange products. Salesforce Developer WelldyneRx April 2014 to January 2016 Responsibilities  ? Built web services in Salesforce for integration with an in-house web application. Coordinated with an off-shore team that was building the web application.  ? Migrated all Salesforce files and attachments to Box and implemented single-sign-on with Salesforce as the Identity Provider.  ? Created Tableau dashboards with Salesforce data. Working to expose/embed the dashboards in Salesforce via Heroku. Also working on blending Salesforce data with data from enterprise systems in Tableau without explicit integration with Salesforce.  ? ServiceNow integration with Salesforce via REST callouts.  ? On-going development as needed. Salesforce Consultant Statera February 2014 to April 2014 Responsibilities  ? As the data migration lead, I held meetings with business and end users to identify and define functional requirements.  ? Drew project design and solution documents detailing the source and destination table models  ? Performed test ETL operations for single and bulk loads using SSIS connectors.  ? Designed and implemented scheduled bulk clean up operations using Apex batch and schedule interfaces. Salesforce Developer Hyundai Capital July 2013 to November 2013 Responsibilities  ? Gathered requirements from business and users. Created the project documents, System Design and Technical Requirements documents.  ? Defined the interfaces for the data received from the data store, stored the interface files in a server folder.  ? Created new objects and fields in salesforce, wrote triggers, validation and workflow rules for the new objects.  ? Created synchronization tasks in Informatica and mapped the interface files to the new Salesforce objects.  ? Configured the dealer detail page layout according to requirements.  ? Tested the synchronization by uploading sample files then performing a data extraction from the Salesforce objects to ascertain that the data uploaded successfully.  ? Deployed the customizations in other sandboxes for QA and UAT testing.  ? Created profiles, roles and implement object level, field level and record level security.  ? Implemented the salesforce for outlook feature to synchronize outlook calendar, events, tasks and contacts with salesforce. Salesforce Developer Legalzoom February 2012 to April 2013 Responsibilities  ? Gathered requirements from business and users. Created the project documents, System Design and Technical Requirements documents.  ? Configured the Sales and Service standard objects such a Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Opportunities, Forecasts, Contracts.  ? Created a custom object and classes for capturing information needed to be collected.  ? Generated a WSDL and created a restricted profile to give the payroll system access to the new salesforce object.  ? Created Triggers and Classes for automatic generation of data related to user activities (e.g. Leads converted by a user) to be stored in the new object.  ? Wrote test cases using helper methods that met and exceeded the required code coverage.  ? Deployed the tested code from dev to UAT sandbox using change sets.  ? Trained the resident salesforce admin on how to leverage JavaScript remoting and Google charts API to create more robust dashboards and charts. Salesforce Developer Fresh Enterprises May 2007 to December 2011 Responsibilities  ? Implemented the Salesforce service cloud, Email to case for service desk.  ? Responsible for migration of customization for Service cloud, Email to case.  ? Interacted with various business user groups for gathering the requirements for Salesforce implementation.  ? Created custom Apex email services for the cases.  ? Developed and customized customer portal for the organization.  ? Experience in data migration using Import Wizard, Apex Data Loader and other integration tools like Informatica Cloud Cast Iron.  ? Developed Apex Classes, Apex Scheduling, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  ? Maintained Custom Objects, Custom Reports and configured the Analytic Snapshots to dump the data on regular basis for the sales performance and lead generation statistics.  ? Built the Security Model for the organization using Roles, Profiles, Sharing settings and Permission sets.  ? Worked with various salesforce.com objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, Reports and Dashboards. Java Developer Volt Services Group January 2005 to April 2007 Responsibilities  ? Designed and developed a job searching portal, a web site for job/employee searching. The site allows to create employee/recruiter accounts, iterates over resumes and vacancies, e-mail new resumes/vacancies to the user according to the search criteria.  ? Responsible for the site architecture, design and implementation of the server side software. Developed architecture, business logic and database structure of the project (UML). Implemented business logic on server-side as Entity and Session Beans (EJB, JDBC, and WebLogic), developed web-based software modules and implemented software utilities for the site administration.  ? Developed components using OOAD design patterns and best practices.  ? Worked closely with SQE to write test plans, define SLA and review test strategy.  ? Involved in usability testing to test new interactive UI components, and worked on modifications as per the feedback from usability testing. Education Comp Sci - University of Leeds